 
 
 
IMPORTANT MESSAGE: PLEASE READ 
 
Proposal for a gas-fired power station on Eye Airfield 
and related infrastructure including the Electrical Connection Compound 
NEWS UPDATE  
10th April 2014  
 
Progress Power last week submitted its Development Consent Order (DCO) application to the Planning 
Inspectorate, which now has until 28 April to confirm that the application meets the required standards 
to proceed to examination.  If the Planning Inspectorate accepts the application, we will give notice of 
the accepted application and invite you to make representations to the Planning Inspectorate.    
 
Electrical Connection Compound  
In February 2014, and following dialogue within the local area and further work on our part, we shared 
information about plans for a new Access Road leading to our preferred location for the Electrical 
Connection Compound (which would comprise a substation and sealing end compound). This preferred 
location was identified as being on land north of Yaxley and Mellis, and south of Thrandeston.  We also 
published details on how the main construction traffic for the Electrical Connection Compound would 
avoid the three villages by using a new road junction off the A140. 
 
The Electrical Connection Compound is a vital component of our power station project that will provide the 
country with essential back-up electricity generation capacity.  It enables the electricity that the station will 
generate to be delivered into the National Grid for homes and businesses, hospitals and schools. 
 
When we undertook our statutory consultation last year we confirmed that, having carried out extensive 
technical and environment studies and non-statutory consultation with the local community and key 
organisations, we were proposing that the power station on the former Eye Airfield would connect into the 
National Grid via underground cable from the airfield site, under the A140 and into the Electrical 
Connection Compound close to the existing overhead, high-voltage National Grid electricity transmission 
lines.      
 
Understandably, we have received a number of comments and questions about our project: both the 
power station and the Electrical Connection Compound.  With specific regard to the Electrical Connection 
Compound, we answered questions about it (and indeed other aspects of the Project) from more than 70 
people who attended sessions that we held on February 25th in Yaxley, Mellis and Eye; the sessions 
followed the publication of the information regarding the Access Road.  A number of parish, district and 
county councillors were present at these sessions.   
 
A range of questions were asked including the justification for the Electrical Connection Compound’s 
location, the access to it and its visual impact.  The team also explained the need for the Electrical 
Connection Compound, the rationale for burying the electrical connection underground and our intention 
to screen the Electrical Connection Compound.  Since then and as part of the work to finalise our 
application to the Planning Inspectorate, we have had further regard to people’s comments and completed 
our technical and environmental studies. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GIS substation: a smaller variant 
Progress Power considers that a substation with Air Insulated Switchgear (AIS) technology is appropriate 
and acceptable in the location of the Electrical Connection Compound and that is the case put forward 
within our application to the Planning Inspectorate. This is the type of substation described in our recent 
Information Update. 
 
However, as a result of local feedback regarding the size of the AIS substation, and after further dialogue 
with Mid Suffolk District Council and Suffolk County Council, we have made sure that in describing the 
substation in the application, it has been done in such a way that either an AIS or a Gas Insulated 
Switchgear (GIS) substation technology variant could be consented by the Secretary of State for Energy & 
Climate Change.   
 
The footprint of a GIS substation would be approximately one third of the AIS technology variant.  We 
would construct either an AIS substation or a GIS substation. All other elements of the electrical 
connection (such as the separate sealing end compound) would remain unchanged.  So, whilst we consider 
that an AIS substation remains appropriate, we have ensured that the GIS substation variant can be 
considered during the examination process as well.   
 
AIS substation variant (indicative image)  
 
 
GIS substation variant (indicative image)  
 
 
The images are shown without landscaping in order to demonstrate the differences between the two 
variants.  Our landscape screening proposals are contained in our application to the Planning Inspectorate. 
 
 
 
Public engagement in the Planning Inspectorate process 
If the Planning Inspectorate accepts our application for examination, members of the public and other 
interested parties, including your parish council, will be able to participate in the examination process 
which may start this summer.   
 
For information about the Planning Inspectorate’s DCO examination process:  
o http://infrastructure.planningportal.gov.uk/wp-content/uploads/2013/04/Advice-note-8-3v4.pdf 
o Call 0303 444 5000 
o E-mail via enquiries@infrastructure.gsi.gov.uk 
o Write to the Planning Inspectorate, Temple Quay House, Temple Quay, Bristol  BS1 6PN 
   
 
 
PLEASE CONTACT US IF YOU NEED A LARGE PRINT  
OR TRANSLATED VERSION OF THIS NOTICE 
 
THE AIS AND GIS INDICATIVE IMAGES ARE FROM FARMLAND NORTH OF YAXLEY  
LARGER VERSIONS OF THEM CAN BE VIEWED ON OUR WEBSITE 
www.progresspower.co.uk 
 
Email: info@progresspower.co.uk 
Post:   Freepost RTEY-JYYB-ERSR, Progress Power Ltd, 49 York Place, Edinburgh EH1 3JD 
Tel:  01603 417722 
