1 
Bureau Veritas UK Ltd, 5th Floor, 66 Prescot Street, London E1 8HG | 0845 600 1828 | www.bureauveritas.co.uk 
Registered in England 1758622 | Bureau Veritas Registered Office: Suite 206 Fort Dunlop, Fort Parkway, Birmingham B24 9FD 
 
Bureau Veritas UK Ltd 
5th Floor 
66 Prescot Street 
London E1 8HG  
 
Bureau Veritas Independent Limited Assurance Report 
 
To: Laura O’Brien, 
C/O Drax Power Limited,  
Selby, 
North Yorkshire, 
YO8 8PH 
Reference: 4784480/3 v1.0 
Date: 10/11/2020 
 
 
 
1. Objectives 
Bureau Veritas UK Ltd (“Bureau Veritas”) was engaged by Drax Power Limited (“DPL”) to provide 
independent opinion on the DPL ‘Biomass Carbon Calculator V2.0’ (“Biomass Calculator”).  The 
objective of the verification is to provide assurance to DPL and its stakeholders over the accuracy and 
reliability of the reported information and data produced by the Biomass Calculator. 
 
2. Responsibilities 
It was the responsibility of DPL to prepare the Biomass Calculator. It is the responsibility of Bureau 
Veritas to provide DPL with limited assurance conclusions on the Biomass Calculator. 
Bureau Veritas affirms its independence from DPL, being free from bias and conflicts of interest with 
the organisation, its subsidiaries and stakeholders. Bureau Veritas considers the audit team to be 
competent to perform assurance projects meeting the requirements of ISAE 30001 with a full 
understanding of the sustainability data required by and reported to Ofgem. 
 
3. Scope of work 
The scope of our verification engagement covered the Biomass Calculator (the “Subject Matter”).  
 
4. Reporting Criteria 
The Subject Matter were reported by DPL according to the criteria set out in Ofgem guidance: 
Renewables Obligation: Sustainability Criteria, 24 April 2018 (the “Reporting Criteria”). 
 
 
5. Assessment Criteria 
The assurance was performed to a ‘limited’ level of assurance in accordance with ISAE 3000, Revised 
(effective for assurance reports dated on or after December 15, 2015) and the following criteria: 
 
The Renewables Obligation Order 2015 for England and Wales (as amended) 
                                                             
1 ISAE 3000 - International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 Revised, Assurance Engagements Other than 
Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information (effective for assurance reports dated on or after December 15, 2015) 
 
2 
Bureau Veritas UK Ltd, 5th Floor, 66 Prescot Street, London E1 8HG | 0845 600 1828 | www.bureauveritas.co.uk 
Registered in England 1758622 | Bureau Veritas Registered Office: Suite 206 Fort Dunlop, Fort Parkway, Birmingham B24 9FD 
 
Ofgem guidance: Renewables Obligation: Sustainability Criteria, 24 April 2018 
The following principles were used to assess the Sustainability data:  
 
Traceability  
 
Completeness  
 
Consistency  
 
Accuracy  
 
6. Summary of Work Performed 
The Subject Matter presented was reviewed to verify compliance with respect to the criteria detailed 
in Section 5 of this Limited Assurance Report. The work undertaken included interviews of relevant 
personnel, review of embedded data and process documentation, assessment of required 
sustainability data inputs and outputs.  
 
It should be noted that the procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature 
and timing from, and are less in extent than for, a reasonable assurance engagement and 
consequently, the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower 
than the assurance that would have been obtained had a reasonable assurance engagement been 
performed. 
 
 
Audit schedule: 
o Interviews by telephone by the Bureau Veritas audit team with the Biomass Calculator 
developer 
o Initial review of the Biomass Calculator and related procedure 
o Assessment of Biomass Calculator against the Reporting and Assessment Criteria 
o Testing of Biomass Calculator using sample data and comparison to UK Carbon calculator 
tool output 
o Review of modified Biomass Calculator following issue closeout 
 
7. Limitations and Exclusions 
Excluded from the scope of our work is any verification of information relating to outputs from the 
tool, as user defined values can be added. 
This limited assurance engagement relies on a risk-based selected sample of sustainability data and 
the associated limitations that this entails. The reliability of the reported data is dependent on the 
accuracy of metering and other production measurement arrangements employed at site level, not 
addressed as part of this assurance. This independent assurance statement should not be relied upon 
to detect all errors, omissions or misstatements that may exist. 
 
8. Limited Assurance Conclusion 
Based on the verification work we carried out and the evidence we were presented with, as per the 
scope of work above, nothing came to our attention to suggest that the Subject Matter are materially 
misstated, according to the assessment criteria in Section 5 of this Limited Assurance Report, subject 
to the limitations set out in Section 7 of this Limited Assurance Report. 
 
 
3 
Bureau Veritas UK Ltd, 5th Floor, 66 Prescot Street, London E1 8HG | 0845 600 1828 | www.bureauveritas.co.uk 
Registered in England 1758622 | Bureau Veritas Registered Office: Suite 206 Fort Dunlop, Fort Parkway, Birmingham B24 9FD 
9. Statement of Independence, Integrity and Competence  
Bureau Veritas is an independent professional services company that specialises in quality, 
environmental, health, safety and social accountability with over 190 years history. Its assurance team 
has extensive experience in conducting verification over environmental, social, ethical and health and 
safety information, systems and processes.  
Bureau Veritas operates a certified Quality Management System which complies with the 
requirements of ISO 9001:2015, and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control 
including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, 
professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements which we consider to be 
equivalent to ISQC1. 
The assurance team for this work does not have any involvement in any other Bureau Veritas projects 
with DPL. Bureau Veritas has implemented and applies a Code of Ethics, which meets the 
requirements of the International Federation of Inspections Agencies (IFIA), across the business to 
ensure that its employees maintain integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, 
confidentiality, professional behaviour and high ethical standards in their day-to-day business 
activities.  We consider this to be equivalent to the requirements of the IESBA code.   
 
This report was prepared by David Fairchild – Lead Verifier (BSc, MSc Environmental Technology, CEnv, 
MIEMA, IEMA Registered Environmental Auditor, ISO14064/ EU ETS Lead Auditor).  The technical 
review of this report was undertaken by Vishal Goel, Associate Director. 
 
London, 10th November 2020 
 
 
Bureau Veritas UK Limited  
