Chapter 11
Landscape and Visual Effects
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
11-1 
 
CONTENTS 
11. Landscape and Visual ....................................................................................... 3 
11.1 Introduction ............................................................................................... 3 
11.2 Changes since the 2014 PEIR .................................................................. 3 
11.3 Legislation, policy and guidance ............................................................... 4 
11.4 Methodology .............................................................................................. 8 
11.5 Baseline Environment ............................................................................. 21 
11.6 Embedded Mitigation ............................................................................... 35 
11.7 Assessment of Effects ............................................................................. 36 
11.8 Mitigation and Monitoring ........................................................................ 47 
11.9 Residual Effects ...................................................................................... 47 
11.10 Cumulative Effects ................................................................................. 59 
11.11  Conclusion ............................................................................................. 67 
11.12 References ............................................................................................ 68 
 
TABLES 
Table 11-1: Summary of changes since the 2014 PEIR to the Landscape and Visual 
Assessment 
Table 11-2: Summary of consultation responses that have informed the scope and 
methodology of the Landscape and Visual Effects assessment 
Table 11-3: Landscape Value Criteria 
Table 11-4: Landscape Susceptibility Criteria 
Table 11-5: Sensitivity of Landscape Receptors  
Table 11-7: Visual Susceptibility Criteria 
Table 11-8: Sensitivity of Visual Receptors  
Table 11-9: Magnitude of Landscape Change  
Table 11-10: Magnitude of Visual Change   
Table 11-11: Significance of Landscape Effect  
Table 11-12: Significance of Visual Effect  
Table 11-12: Representative Viewpoints 
Table 11-13: Landscape and Visual Assessment Summary of Effects Arising during 
Construction and Decommissioning Phases 
Table 11-14: Cumulative landscape and visual effects arising during construction and 
decommissioning phases 
Table 11-15: Cumulative landscape and visual effects arising during operation phase 
 
FIGURES 
Figure 11.1: Landscape Designations 
Figure 11.2: LANDMAP Aspect Data – Visual  and Sensory 
Figure 11.3: LANDMAP Aspect Data  - Habitat 
Figure 11.4: LANDMAP Aspect Data - Geological 
Figure 11.6: LANDMAP Aspect Data - Historical 
Figure 11.6: LANDMAP Aspect Data - Cultural 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
11-2 
 
Figure 11.7: ZTV and Viewpoints up to 15 km 
Figure 11.8: ZTV and Viewpoints up to 5 km 
Figure 11.9: ZTV and Visual and Sensory LANDMAP Aspect Data 
Figure 11.10: Outline Landscape Mitigation Strategy 
Landscape and Visual Photomontages  
Visually Verified Montages and Methodology 
Viewpoint Information 
Viewpoint Location Map 
Viewpoint 1: North side of J64 of M4, on B4489  
Viewpoint 2: Fforest-newydd  
Viewpoint 3: Gower Way, Felindre  
Viewpoint 4: Llwyngwenno, Heol Glyn-Dyfal  
Viewpoint 5: Mynydd Pysgodlyn  
Viewpoint 6: Tor Clawdd, adjacent to Ring Cairn  
Viewpoint 7: Tor Clawdd, southern end  
Viewpoint 8: Rhyd-y-pandy road near Cynghordy  
Viewpoint 9: Public Right of Way, north of Aber-gelli fach  
Viewpoint 11: Llangyfelach Churchyard  
Viewpoint 12: Carnglas  
Viewpoint 13: Three Crosses  
Viewpoint 14: Public Right of Way near Maes-eglwys Farm  
Viewpoint 15: Public Right of Way and minor road  
Viewpoint 16: Dorglwyd  
Viewpoint 17: Cefn Betingau Farm  
Viewpoint 18: Footpath on the north side of the A48 Clasemont Road 
 
APPENDICES 
Appendix 11.1: LANDMAP Aspect Data 
Appendix 11.2: Landscape Assessment 
Appendix 11.3: Visual Assessment 
 
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
11-3 
 
11. 
Landscape and Visual 
11.1 
Introduction 
11.1.1 This chapter provides a preliminary assessment of the likely significant Landscape 
and Visual effects arising from construction, operation and decommissioning of the 
Project as part of this Preliminary Environmental Impact Report (PEIR).  
11.1.2 A detailed description of the Project Site and the Project is provided in Chapter 3: 
Project and Site Description.  A glossary of terms and list of abbreviations used in 
this chapter is provided at the start of this PEIR. 
11.1.3 Landscape and visual effects are interrelated with other environmental effects but 
are assessed separately. Whilst elements of the landscape, such as Listed 
Buildings or ecologically designated areas, are important elements of the 
landscape and contribute to its character and influence its quality and value, 
assessment of the significance of effects on these features is considered in 
Chapter 8: Ecology, Chapter 13: Historic Environment and Chapter 14: Socio-
economics.  
11.1.4 This chapter is supported by the following technical appendices presented in: 
 
Appendix 11.1: LANDMAP Aspect Data; 
 
Appendix 11.2: Landscape Assessment; and 
 
Appendix 11.3: Visual Assessment. 
11.1.5 The Landscape and Visual Impact Assessment (LVIA) has been informed by 
previous consultation undertaken associated with the 2014 PEIR, Scoping Opinion 
and recent consultation as part of the design evolution of the project.  
a)  Objectives of the assessment 
11.1.6 The LVIA considers how the Project may have an effect upon landscape character 
and visual amenity. It considers how: 
 Landscape effects associated with a development relate to change to the fabric, 
character and quality of the landscape resource and how it is experienced; and  
 Visual effects relate closely to landscape effects but also concern changes in 
views as visual assessment is also concerned with people’s perception and 
response to changes in visual amenity. 
11.2 
Changes since the 2014 PEIR 
11.2.1 There have been changes to the Project design as a result of design evolution and 
consultation as detailed in Chapter 3: Project and Site Description. To aid the 
reader, Table 11-1 outlines the changes to this assessment compared with the 
Landscape and Visual section of the 2014 PEIR. 
 
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
11-4 
 
Table 11-1: Summary of changes since the 2014 PEIR to the Landscape and Visual Assessment 
Section 
Changes since the 2014 PEIR 
Section Reference 
Methodology 
Methodology 
The 
detail 
contained 
in 
the 
methodology including the criteria for 
sensitivity, 
magnitude 
and 
significance varies between the 2014 
PEIR and the 2018 PEIR, however 
both are in accordance with GLVIA3 
and 
the 
differences 
reflect 
professional 
judgements 
on 
methodology.  
Viewpoint 10 has been replaced with 
Viewpoint 17 as the site visit in 
November 
2017 
revealed 
that 
foreground views now contain a solar 
farm and associated security fencing.
The stack height has increased to 45 
m in the 2018 PEIR, however the 
study area for visual amenity has 
remained the same in both the 
PEIRs at 15 km. This has been 
agreed through consultation.  
 
Baseline 
Baseline 
The baseline has changed since the 
2014 PEIR, most notably with the 
construction of solar farms within the 
5 km landscape study area.  
Significance of 
Effect 
Significance of Effect 
Effects are similar between the 2014 
PEIR and 2018 PEIR with the same 
conclusions 
drawn 
on 
overall 
significance.  
11.3 
Legislation, policy and guidance  
11.3.1 This section identifies and describes legislation, policy and guidance of relevance 
to the assessment of the potential landscape and visual impacts associated with 
the Project. 
11.3.2 Legislation and policy has been considered on an international, national, regional 
and local level.  The following is considered to be relevant to the landscape and 
visual assessment as it has influenced the sensitivity of receptors and requirements 
for mitigation or the scope and/or methodology of the PEIR. 
 
International 
a)
11.3.3 The European Landscape Convention (ELC) came into force on 1st March 2004 in 
the UK and is the first international convention to be exclusively devoted to all 
aspects of the landscape. Its purpose is to develop policies to the protection, 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
11-5 
 
management and planning of landscape and the integration into relevant policies, 
including cultural, heritage and economic policies. In 2008 the Council of Europe 
adopted guidelines for the implementation of the ELC. In delivering the outcomes of 
the ELC in the UK, a framework for Implementation in England has been drawn up 
(Integrating the European Landscape Convention: Part 1-3 Guidance (2009) 
Ref.11.1).  
b) National 
11.3.4 There are three NPSs that are relevant to the Project; the overarching NPS EN-1 
covering all nationally important energy infrastructure and the technology specific 
NPS EN-2 for Fossil Fuel Electricity Generating Infrastructure and NPS EN-4 for 
Gas Supply Infrastructure and Gas Oil Pipelines.   
 
Overarching National Policy Statement for Energy (NPS EN-1) 
i.
11.3.5 NPS EN-1 directs those deciding applications on what general policies and 
considerations they should assess with regards to an energy Nationally Significant 
Infrastructure Project (NSIP), such as the Project. Within, it recognises that NSIPs 
will have potential landscape and visual impacts, which is outlined in section 5.9 
and the therefore the Applicant should “…include the effects during construction of 
the project and the effects of the completed development and its operation on 
landscape components and landscape character. The assessment should include 
the visibility and conspicuousness of the project during construction and of the 
presence and operation of the project and potential impacts on views and visual 
amenity. This should include light pollution effects, including on local amenity, and 
nature conservation”.  
11.3.6 NPS EN-1 also recognises that the scale of development located outside the 
boundaries of national designated areas may have impacts as structures may be 
visible within such designated areas. It states that “the aim should be to avoid 
compromising the purposes of designation and such projects should be designed 
sensitively given the various siting, operational, and other relevant constraints. … 
The fact that a proposed project will be visible from within a designated area should 
not in itself be a reason for refusing consent.” 
11.3.7 In response to the potential landscape and visual impacts, NPS EN-1 has outlined 
guidance in terms of mitigation. It states “Within a defined site, adverse landscape 
and visual effects may be minimised through appropriate siting of infrastructure 
within that site, design including colours and materials, and landscaping schemes, 
depending on the size and type of the proposed project. Materials and designs of 
buildings should always be given consideration.” 
ii. National Policy Statement for Fossil Fuel Electricity Generating Infrastructure 
(NPS EN-2) 
11.3.8 The NPS EN-2 is to be read in conjunction with NPS EN-1, with EN-2 specifically 
covering gas fired infrastructure projects such as the Project. It recognises that 
applicants should demonstrate good design in respect to landscape and visual 
amenity set out in section 2.6 and detailed in EN-1. NPS EN-2 also requires the 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
11-6 
 
Applicant to have given considerations to the aesthetic design of a development, 
and siting of the development in the context of existing landscape, landform and 
vegetation.  
iii. National Policy Statement for Gas Supply Infrastructure and Gas and Oil 
Pipelines (NPS EN-4) 
11.3.9 The NPS EN-4 covers infrastructure involving underground gas pipelines, such as 
included in the Project. The potential landscape and visual impacts are outlined in 
section 2.14 of which it notes that pipeline construction can cause temporary 
landscape and visual impacts.  
 National Policy Statement for Electricity Networks Infrastructure (NPS EN-5) 
iv.
11.3.10 The NPS EN-5 covers infrastructure for electricity networks including transmission 
systems and the associated infrastructure such as substations. Section 2.8 
identifies principles to be followed when designing the route of overhead line 
proposals including consideration of undergrounding lines where there is the 
potential for adverse landscape and visual effects. 
 Future Landscapes: Delivering for Wales 
v.
11.3.11 The Future Landscapes: Delivering for Wales was published in 2017 and provides 
an independent review of designated landscapes in Wales. The findings and 
recommendations contained in this report follow in the spirit of the Well-Being of 
Future Generations (Wales) Act 2015 and the Environment (Wales) Act 2016.  
 Planning Policy Wales (Edition 9) 
vi.
11.3.12 Planning Policy Wales (Edition 9, November 2016) (PPW) sets out the land use 
planning policies of the Welsh Government and is supplemented by topic based 
Technical Advice Notes (TANs).  
11.3.13 TANs considered to be relevant to the landscape and visual resource include 
Technical Advisory Note 12: Design (TAN12) (2016). 
11.3.14 TAN 12 provides advice on how developments should promote sustainability 
through good design.  Specifically in relation to landscape, it states “appraisal of the 
landscape should focus on its quality in terms of geology and geomorphology, 
vegetation and habitats, visual and sensory quality and historic and cultural quality.” 
It also provides design solutions and guidance to help promote sustainability in 
terms of landscape setting and local environment outlined in section 5.5.2 in the 
following terms: “The aim should be to achieve good design solutions which 
maximise the natural landscape assets and minimise environmental impact on the 
landscape. It is particularly important that proposals to amend or create new 
landscape are not considered as an afterthought and that the long term impact of 
development on the landscape is fully understood.” 
 
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
11-7 
 
c) Local 
11.3.15 The City and Council of Swansea Unitary Development Plan (UDP) was adopted 
on the 10th November 2008. It sets out a range of policies and proposals relating to 
future development and contains a number of policies which are relevant to the 
landscape and visual resource as follows: 
 
Policy EV1: Design – Outlines a number of objectives to achieve good design 
in all new developments such as “be appropriate to its local context in terms of 
scale, height, massing, elevational treatment, materials and detailing, layout, 
form, mix and density.” Such developments should be sensitive to the county’s 
unique settings and respect its surroundings. 
 
Policy EV2: Siting and Location – The policy recognises that new proposed 
developments must have regards to the physical character and topography of 
the site and its surroundings. It outlines guidance such as “effectively 
integrating with the landscape, seascape or coastline by utilising topography to 
integrate into the contours of the site and avoiding conspicuous locations on 
prominent skylines and ridge”. 
 
Policy EV11: Historic Parks, Gardens and Landscapes – Insures that all new 
development will not harm registered historic parks and gardens and the 
character of the historic landscapes. 
 
Policy EV26: Areas of Outstanding Natural Beauty – Within the Gower AONB, 
the policy’s objective is the conservation and enhancement of the area’s 
beauty. Therefore, proposed development will not have adverse effect or 
impact on the area. 
 
Policy EV30: Trees, Woodland and Hedgerow Protection – The policy ensures 
the protection of existing woodland, trees and hedgerow. 
 
Policy EV32: Environment Enhancement – The policy recognises that new 
developments should be combined with improvements to the overall 
environmental quality, and to avoid significant adverse environmental impacts 
from the new development.  
11.3.16 The Deposit Local Development Plan (LDP) was published for consultation 
between the 18th July and 31st August 2016. The deposit LDP presents the policies 
and proposals for managing the future growth and change that will occur within the 
City and County of Swansea. The LDP is not yet adopted and is not therefore part 
of the statutory development plan.  As emerging policy, it cannot be afforded full 
weight.  Please see Chapter 2: Regulatory and Policy Background for further 
detail. The policies relevant to the Landscape and Visual resource are as follows: 
 
ER 2: Strategic Green Infrastructure Network: This Policy seeks to maintain or 
enhance the extent, quality and connectivity of the County’s multi-functional 
green infrastructure network. 
 
ER 3: Green Belt and Green Wedges. This Policy seeks to ensure that within 
the Greenbelt and Green Wedges, development will only be permitted if it 
maintains the openness and character of the land. 
 
ER 4: Gower Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty. This Policy seeks to 
conserve and enhance the natural beauty of the AONB, whilst accommodating 
the sustainable development needs of the local community and visitors to the 
area. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
11-8 
 
 
ER 5: Landscape Protection. The aim of this policy is to ensure that the 
character and quality of the County’s most valued landscapes are protected 
from inappropriate development and to encourage the management, 
enhancement and creation of key landscape features wherever possible. This 
Policy relates to areas outside the AONB including Special Landscape Areas 
(SLAs) of which three separate areas are identified. 
 
ER 7: Undeveloped Coast. This purpose of this policy is to safeguard the 
undeveloped coast from inappropriate development. 
 
ER 11: Trees and Development. This Policy seeks to protect trees, woodland 
and hedgerows of public amenity, natural/cultural heritage value or that provide 
important ecosystem services from being adversely affected by development. 
11.4 
Methodology 
11.4.1 This section sets out the methodology for the LVIA for the Project.  It builds on the 
general assessment methodology presented in Chapter 4: Approach to 
Environmental Impact Assessment and develops this to take account of the 
range of likely significant effects on the landscape character and visual amenity 
arising from the construction, operation and decommissioning of the Project.  
11.4.2 This section of the chapter presents the following: 
 
Identification of the information sources that have been consulted throughout 
preparation of this chapter; 
 
Details of consultation undertaken with respects to the landscape and visual 
resource; 
 
The methodology behind the assessment of landscape and visual effects, 
including the criteria for the determination of the significance of the receptor 
and the magnitude of change from the baseline condition; 
 
An explanation as to how the identification and assessment of potential 
landscape and visual effects has been reached; and; 
 
The significance criteria and terminology for assessment of the residual effects 
to the landscape and visual resource.  
11.4.3 The approach to the LVIA has been devised to address the specific effects likely to 
result from developments of this scale and nature. The methodology draws upon 
the following established best practice guidance: 
 
Guidelines for Landscape and Visual Impact Assessment, 3rd Edition (GLVIA3) 
(Landscape Institute and Institute of Environmental Assessment and 
Management, 2013) (Ref. 11.2);  
 
LANDMAP Methodological Guidance Series 2016 (Ref. 11.3); 
 
Photographs from representative viewpoints and Visually Verified Montages 
(VVM) of the Project have been produced in compliance with Landscape 
Institute Advice Note 01/11: Photography and photomontage in landscape and 
visual impact assessment (Landscape Institute, 2011) (Ref. 11.4). 
11.4.4 The following terminology has been used throughout the assessment: 
 
Landscape Character Areas (LCA): Areas of relatively homogenous 
landscape character. They are defined by the combination of elements that 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
11-9 
 
contribute to landscape context, character and value. Typical landscape 
elements include landform, land use, built development, vegetation and open 
space. More subjective criteria are also considered such as scale, unity and 
enclosure. In Wales landscape character is mapped using LANDMAP. 
LANDMAP 
is 
an 
all-Wales 
landscape 
resource 
where 
landscape 
characteristics, qualities and influences on the landscape are recorded and 
evaluated.  
 
Zone of Theoretical Visibility (ZTV): A computer generated map based on a 
3D model of the Project and the topography within the surrounding landscape, 
which shows areas of land within which the Project will theoretically be visible.  
 
Visual amenity: Relates to the way in which people visually experience the 
surrounding landscape.  Adverse visual effects may occur through the intrusion 
of new elements into established views, which are out of keeping with the 
existing structure, scale and composition of the view.  Visual effects may also 
be beneficial, where an attractive focus is created in a previously unremarkable 
view or the influence of previously detracting features is reduced.  The 
significance of effects will vary, depending on the nature and degree of change 
experienced and the perceived value and composition of the existing view. 
 
Visual Receptors: Special interest or viewer groups who will have views of the 
Project. Visual receptors have been identified through desk study and 
fieldwork. 
 
Representative Viewpoint: Viewpoints selected to represent the experience of 
different types of visual receptor (viewer) including settlements and residential 
properties, transport and recreational routes and other outdoor locations. 
Representative viewpoints are located predominantly within publicly accessible 
locations and have been selected in consultation with CCS and NRW. 
a) Basis of Assessment 
11.4.5 Table 3-2 in Chapter: 3 Project and Site Description outlines the parameters 
which form the basis of the assessment of likely significant effects on landscape 
and visual amenity. The LVIA assesses only the effects of the maximum 
parameters, as for this topic the maximum parameters represent the realistic worst-
case scenario. 
b) Scope of the assessment 
11.4.6 GLVIA3 requires that a clear distinction is drawn between landscape and visual 
effects: 
 Landscape effects relate to the degree of change to characteristics or physical 
components of a rural area, which together form the character of that landscape, 
e.g. topography, land use, vegetation and open space. 
 Visual effects relate to the degree of change to an individual receptor's or a 
receptor group's view of that landscape, e.g. local residents, users of public open 
space, footpaths or motorists passing through the area. 
11.4.7 By assessing the construction, operational and decommissioning stages of the 
Project separately, distinctions may be drawn between temporary and permanent 
effects, with permanent effects typically being of greater importance. Residual 
effects are those likely to arise from the Project taking into account all additional 
mitigation measures.  
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
11-10 
 
11.4.8 The scope of this assessment has been determined through a formal EIA scoping 
process undertaken with the Secretary of State. Comments raised on the EIA 
Scoping Report have been taken into account in the development of the 
assessment methodology and these are detailed where relevant in this chapter.  
Responses to the comments raised in the EIA Scoping Opinion can be found in 
Appendix 4.1. Additional consultation has been carried out with both NRW and 
CCS and these are outlined in more detail below. 
c) Consultation 
11.4.9 The scope of the assessment has also been informed by ongoing consultation with 
statutory consultees throughout the design and assessment process, including 
NRW and CCS. 
11.4.10 A summary of the comments raised and responses are detailed in Table 11-2. 
Table 11-2: Summary of consultation responses that have informed the scope and methodology of the 
Landscape and Visual Effects assessment 
Consultee 
Date 
Comment 
Response 
SoS 
Scoping 
Opinion 
(paragraph 
3.66) 
August 
2014 
Recommends that NRW and CCS 
are 
consulted 
over 
viewpoint 
locations. 
NRW and CCS have been 
consulted during November 
2017 over viewpoint locations 
– refer to entry below. 
SoS 
Scoping 
Opinion 
(paragraph 
3.66) 
August 
2014 
Consideration to be given to 
potential 
views 
from 
Brecon 
Beacons National Park and that 
the National Park Authority should 
be consulted about viewpoints. 
The ZTV shows that there will 
be no theoretical visibility from 
any part of the National Park. 
NRW have also confirmed that 
because of this they don’t 
require the Park Authority to 
be 
consulted 
or 
any 
viewpoints to be included from 
within the Park. 
SoS 
Scoping 
Opinion 
(paragraph 
3.67) 
August 
2014 
Recommends that the Applicant 
provides a description of existing 
landscape interests within and in 
the vicinity of the Project Site. 
A 
full 
description 
of 
the 
landscape character and its 
characteristic features within 
the Project Site and wider 
area is contained in the LVIA. 
SoS 
Scoping 
Opinion 
(paragraph 
3.68) 
August 
2014 
Lighting impacts to be considered 
in the ES. 
The LVIA considers lighting 
within the overall assessment 
of effects. 
SoS 
Scoping 
Opinion 
(paragraph 
3.75 ) 
August 
2014 
Recommends that where any 
landscape is proposed only slow 
and low growing species of trees 
and shrubs should be planted 
beneath and adjacent to the 
existing transmission line. 
The 
landscape 
mitigation 
proposals 
take 
this 
into 
account. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
11-11 
 
Consultee 
Date 
Comment 
Response 
2017 Consultation 
NRW 
15th 
Nov 
2017 
NRW 
responded 
on 
the 
4th 
December 2017 requesting an 
additional 
two 
viewpoints 
are 
considered at Mynydd Gelliwastad 
and Fairwood Common. 
On the 6th December, AECOM 
requested clarification of the 
exact location of the two 
viewpoints either with grid-
references or a plan.  These 
viewpoints are not included in 
this PEIR but discussion is 
ongoing and is expected to be 
resolved by the time of the 
DCO application and included 
as necessary in the final ES. 
CCS 
15th 
Nov 
2017 
CCS responded on the 21st 
November querying why the ZTV 
had decreased in extent from the 
2014 PEIR despite the increase in 
stack height. They also suggested 
that viewpoints within the two 
neighbouring 
authorities 
(Carmarthenshire and Neath Port 
Talbot) could be considered. A 
final comment was made that the 
impact of the Project on heritage 
assets will need to be assessed 
along with discussion with Cadw 
(Welsh 
Government’s 
historic 
environment service). 
A subsequent email received on 
the 29th November 217 requested 
an 
additional 
viewpoint 
at 
Brynwhilach. 
AECOM responded on the 
30th November 2017 providing 
an explanation as to why the 
current ZTV differs from the 
2014 PEIR. A viewpoint table 
was also provided showing the 
AECOM viewpoint numbering 
and 
the 
2014 
PIER 
viewpoints. 
AECOM 
suggested that based on the 
areas of theoretical visibility 
within 
the 
neighbouring 
authorities 
combined 
with 
AECOM’s 
assessment 
findings from viewpoints at a 
similar distance from the site 
(VP 12 and VP13) that the 
combination of distance and 
intervening 
built 
form, 
vegetation 
and 
landform 
means that the development 
would not be discernible in 
views. 
AECOM 
therefore 
suggested 
that 
additional 
viewpoints in the neighbouring 
authorities would not provide 
additional benefit to the LVIA. 
With 
regards 
to 
heritage 
assets AECOM clarified that 
the Archaeology and Cultural 
Heritage assessment would 
specifically look at the effects 
on heritage assets and would 
consult 
with 
CADW 
as 
required.  
d) Study area 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
11-12 
 
11.4.11 The extent of the study area for the landscape assessment has been determined 
by desk based study and field survey and is defined by a 5 km radius from the 
location of the stack within the Project Site. Beyond this distance the Project is not 
considered likely to have any potential to give rise to significant landscape effects, 
due to the distance and intervening landform, settlement pattern and vegetation. 
11.4.12 In order to determine an initial broad study area for the visual baseline it is 
necessary to understand the likely visibility of the Project. The extent of the study 
area for the visual assessment has been identified through a review of maps and 
aerial photographs of the Project Site and surrounding area alongside the ZTV. The 
ZTV was developed using a 3D model of the maximum parameters of the Project 
and the topography within 15 km of the Project, to take account of the 45 m 
maximum height of the stack (beyond this distance significant adverse effects on 
views and visual amenity are considered unlikely). Fieldwork has been used to 
refine the theoretical visibility by establishing the influence of existing landform, 
buildings and vegetation. It is considered that significant adverse effects on visual 
amenity are likely to be limited to within 5 km of the Project Site which is reflected in 
the spread of viewpoints chosen to represent the variety of potential views of the 
Project Site. 
11.4.13 The study area for the landscape assessment is 5 km from the stack and for the 
visual assessment is 15 km from the stack as illustrated in Figures 11.7 and 11.8.  
11.4.14 Photographs and Visually Verified Montages (VVMs) have been used to describe 
and illustrate the view from each viewpoint and are contained in Vol II: Figures and 
Photomontages. 
e) Temporal Scope  
11.4.15 Landscape and visual effects change over time as the existing landscape external 
to the Project evolves and proposed mitigation planting establishes and matures.  
The assessments therefore report on potential effects during construction, 
decommissioning and at operation both during winter (Year of opening) and 
summer (Year 15 once the embedded mitigation is expected to be established).  
The assessments have been carried out, as is best practice, by assuming the worst 
case scenario, i.e. on a clear bright day, when haze would not interfere with the 
clarity of the view obtained.  
f) 
Baseline Data Collection 
11.4.16 The baseline data has been informed by a combination of desktop study and 
fieldwork. Desk based research has been undertaken with the aid of various 
published documents, including LANDMAP Aspect Data, designation citations, 
policy documents, and computer tools/software, including Ordnance Survey maps / 
digital terrain models (DTM), Google Maps and ArcGIS. 
11.4.17 Field survey visits have been undertaken during periods of clear visibility between 
July 2017 and November 2017.  This has allowed the landscape character and 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
11-13 
 
visual amenity of the study area to be experienced in a range of different conditions 
and takes into account seasonal variation. 
11.4.18 A detailed study of the existing landscape components and character of the study 
area and views within and around the Project Site has been carried out in 
consideration of the following: 
 
Site context; 
 
Topography and hydrology; 
 
Movement and connectivity; 
 
Land use including settlement and vegetation patterns; 
 
Landscape character (with reference to LANDMAP Aspect Areas); and 
 
Representative views. 
11.4.19 The visual amenity of the study area was surveyed to note the general 
characteristics and nature of existing views.  This included identification of a 
comprehensive range of viewpoints that represent a cross section of locations, 
views and viewer types likely to experience views of the Project.  These viewpoints 
include locations at a variety of distances, aspects, elevations and visual extent and 
are representative of a range of receptor types, including residential areas and 
individual properties, transport and recreational routes.   
11.4.20 Field survey is essential to develop an understanding of the key characteristics of 
the existing landscape or view, in order to establish the baseline against which 
proposed change can be assessed.  
g) Impact Assessment Methodology  
11.4.21 The following provides details of the process and classification criteria employed in 
undertaking the landscape and visual assessments.  The criteria detailed in Tables 
11-3 to Table 11-11 are not intended to be prescriptive.  Rather these examples are 
used to illustrate potential combinations of judgements which relate to the scales 
for value, susceptibility, sensitivity to change, magnitude of change and significance 
of effect as described subsequently. 
h) Sensitivity  
 
Landscape Receptors 
i.
11.4.22 Landscape receptors are described within GLVIA3 (para 5.34) as ‘components of 
the landscape that are likely to be affected by the Project’. These can include 
overall character and key characteristics, individual elements or features and 
specific aesthetic or perceptual aspects. It is the interaction between the different 
components of the Project and these landscape receptors which has potential to 
result in landscape effects (both adverse and beneficial).  
11.4.23 The sensitivity of the landscape receptor is a combination of the value of the 
landscape (undertaken as part of the baseline study) and the susceptibility to 
change of the receptor to the specific type of development being assessed. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
11-14 
 
11.4.24 Landscape value is frequently addressed by reference to international, national, 
regional and local designations, determined by statutory bodies and planning 
agencies.  Absence of such a designation does not necessarily imply a lack of 
quality or value.  Factors such as accessibility and local scarcity can render areas 
of nationally unremarkable quality, highly valuable as a local resource.  The quality 
and condition has also been considered in the determination of the value of a 
landscape.  The evaluation of landscape value has been undertaken with reference 
to a three point scale, as outlined in Table 11-3, below. 
Table 11-3: Landscape Value Criteria 
Value 
Classification Criteria 
High 
Protected by a statutory landscape designation, an iconic 
landscape contributing strongly to a sense of place, or an 
unspoilt 
landscape 
containing 
unique 
or 
scarce 
elements/features with few, if any, detracting elements/features. 
Medium 
Regionally or locally designated landscape or an undesignated 
landscape with locally important, but more commonplace, 
features and containing some detracting elements/features. 
Low 
Undesignated 
landscape 
with 
few, 
if 
any, 
notable 
elements/features, 
or 
containing 
several 
detracting 
elements/features. 
11.4.25 The susceptibility to change is a measure of the ability of a landscape to 
“accommodate the proposed development without undue consequences for the 
maintenance of the baseline situation and/or the achievement of landscape 
planning policies and strategies” (Ref. 11.1 para 5.40, GLVIA). 
11.4.26 The guidance also refers to the fact that many existing assessments provide a 
valuation of landscape character areas/types for their ‘intrinsic’ or ‘inherent’ 
sensitivity, with no reference to specific development types.  Paragraph 5.42  of 
GLVIA (Ref. 11.1) states that “these cannot reliably inform assessment of the 
susceptibility to change since they are carried out without reference to any 
particular type of development and so do not relate to the specific development 
proposed.”  Furthermore, it goes on to say “since landscape effects in LVIA are 
particular to both the specific landscape in question and the specific nature of the 
project, the assessment of susceptibility must be tailored to the project.  It must not 
be recorded as part of the landscape baseline but should be considered as part of 
the assessment of the effects.” 
11.4.27 Landscape susceptibility has been appraised through consideration of the baseline 
characteristics of the landscape, and in particular, the scale or complexity of a given 
landscape.  The evaluation of landscape susceptibility has been undertaken with 
reference to a three point scale, as outlined in Table 11-4, below. 
Table 11-4: Landscape Susceptibility Criteria 
Susceptibility 
Classification Criteria 
High 
Attributes that contribute to a landscape which is considered to 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
11-15 
 
Susceptibility 
Classification Criteria 
be intolerant of even minor change without fundamentally 
altering key characteristics. 
Medium 
Attributes that contribute to a landscape which offers some 
opportunities to accommodate change without fundamentally 
altering the key characteristics. 
Low 
Attributes that contribute to a landscape which is considered to 
be tolerant of a large degree of change without fundamentally 
altering the key characteristics. 
11.4.28 Landscape sensitivity to change has been determined by employing professional 
judgement to combine and analyse the identified value and susceptibility and has 
been defined with reference to the three point scale outlined in Table 11-5, below. In 
combining susceptibility and value GLVIA3 indicates that this can be achieved in a 
number of ways and needs to include professional judgement. However it is 
generally accepted that a combination of high susceptibility and high value is likely 
to result in the highest sensitivity, whereas a low susceptibility and low value is 
likely to result in the lowest level of sensitivity. 
Table 11-5: Sensitivity of Landscape Receptors  
Sensitivity 
Classification Criteria 
High 
Landscape of national or regional value with distinctive elements 
and characteristics, considered to have a limited ability to absorb 
change without fundamentally altering the key characteristics. 
Medium 
Landscape of regional or local value, or rarity, exhibiting some 
distinct elements/features, considered tolerant of some degree 
of change without fundamentally altering the key characteristics. 
Low 
Landscape with few distinctive elements/features or valued 
characteristics and considered tolerant of a large degree of 
change without fundamentally altering the key characteristics. 
 Visual Receptors 
ii.
11.4.29 Sensitivity of visual receptors has been defined through appraisal of the viewing 
expectation, or value placed on the view as identified in the baseline study, and its 
susceptibility to change. 
11.4.30 Value of the view is an appraisal of the value attached to views and is often 
informed by the appearance on Ordnance Survey or tourist maps and in 
guidebooks, literature or art.  Value can also be indicated by the provision of 
parking or services and signage and interpretation.  The nature and composition of 
the view is also an indicator.  Value of the view has been determined with reference 
to the three point scale and criteria outlined in Table 11-6. 
 
 
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
11-16 
 
Table 11-6: Value of the View 
Value 
Classification Criteria 
High 
Nationally recognised view, a view with cultural associations 
(recognised in art, literature, or other medium), or a recognised 
high quality view of the landscape with very few, if any detracting 
elements. 
Medium 
Regionally or locally recognised view, or unrecognised but 
pleasing and well composed view, with few detracting elements. 
Low 
Typical or poorly composed view, often with numerous 
detracting elements. 
11.4.31 Visual susceptibility relates to the importance of views to receptors at a certain 
location and is informed by the type of receptor and the activity with which they are 
engaged.  This considers the extent to which receptors’ attention or interest is 
focused on the view or visual amenity.  For example, residents in their home, 
walkers whose interest may tend to be focused on the landscape or a particular 
view, or visitors at an attraction where views are an important part of the 
experience, may indicate a higher level of susceptibility.  Whereas, receptors 
occupied in outdoor sport where views are not important or at their place of work 
could be considered less susceptible to change.  Visual susceptibility has been 
determined with reference to the three point scale and criteria outlined in Table 11-
7, below. 
Table 11-7: Visual Susceptibility Criteria 
Susceptibility 
Classification Criteria 
High 
Locations where the view is of primary importance and receptors 
are likely to notice even minor change. 
Medium 
Locations where the view is important but not necessarily the 
primary focus and receptors are tolerant of some change. 
Low 
Locations where the view is incidental or unimportant to 
receptors and tolerant of a high degree of change. 
11.4.32 Visual sensitivity to change has been determined by employing professional 
judgement to combine and analyse the identified value and susceptibility and has 
been defined with reference to the three point scale outlined in Table 11-8. In 
combining susceptibility and value it is generally accepted that a combination of 
high susceptibility and high value is likely to result in the highest sensitivity, 
whereas a low susceptibility and low value is likely to result in the lowest level of 
sensitivity.  
Table 11-8: Sensitivity of Visual Receptors  
Sensitivity 
Classification Criteria 
High 
Locations where receptors experience an impressive or well 
composed view containing few detracting elements, with limited 
ability to absorb change.   
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
11-17 
 
Sensitivity 
Classification Criteria 
Medium 
Locations where receptors experience a valued view which 
generally represents a pleasing composition but may include 
some detracting features and is tolerant of a degree of change. 
Low 
Locations where the view is incidental or not important to the 
receptors and the nature of the view is of limited value or poorly 
composed with numerous detracting features and is tolerant of a 
large degree of change.   
i) 
Landscape Magnitude of Change 
11.4.33 The magnitude of landscape change refers to the extent to which the Project would 
alter the existing characteristics of the landscape.  Changes to landscape 
characteristics can be both direct and indirect.   
11.4.34 Magnitude of landscape change refers to the extent to which the Project would alter 
the existing characteristics of the landscape.  It is an expression of the size or scale 
of change to the landscape, the geographical extent of the area influenced and its 
duration and reversibility.  The variables involved are described below: 
 
The extent of existing landscape elements that would be lost, the proportion of 
the total extent that this represents and the contribution of that element to the 
character of the landscape; 
 
The extent to which aesthetic or perceptual aspects of the landscape are 
altered either by removal of existing components of the landscape or by 
addition of new ones; 
 
Whether the change alters the key characteristics of the landscape, which are 
integral to its distinctive character; 
 
The geographic area over which the change will be felt (within the application 
boundary itself, the immediate setting, at the scale of the landscape character 
area, on a larger scale influencing several landscape character areas); and 
 
The duration of the change short term, medium term or long term and its 
reversibility (whether it is permanent, temporary or partially reversible). 
11.4.35 Magnitude of landscape change has been evaluated with reference to Table 11-9 
below ranging from higher to lower levels of magnitude described using a four point 
scale (high, medium, low, negligible). 
 
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
11-18 
 
Table 11-9: Magnitude of Landscape Change  
Level of 
Magnitude 
Size or Scale of Change 
Geographical 
Extent 
Duration 
Reversibility 
Higher 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lower 
 Highly noticeable 
change, affecting many 
key characteristics and 
dominating the 
experience of the 
landscape; and 
 Introduction of highly 
incongruous 
development 
 Very extensive 
affecting several 
landscape types 
or character 
areas. 
Long-term 
(10 years 
+) 
Irreversible  
 Noticeable change, 
affecting some key 
characteristics and the 
experience of the 
landscape; and 
 Introduction of some 
uncharacteristic 
elements. 
 Affecting a 
substantial 
proportion of the 
landscape 
character area. 
Medium-
term (5-10 
years) 
Partially 
reversible  
 Minor change, affecting 
some characteristics and 
the experience of the 
landscape to an extent; 
and 
 Introduction of elements 
that are not 
uncharacteristic. 
 Affecting the 
immediate setting 
of the Project Site.
Short-term 
(0-5 years) 
Reversible 
 Little perceptible change  Limited to within 
the Development 
application 
boundary. 
Short-term 
(0-5 years) 
Reversible 
 
j) 
Visual Magnitude of Change 
11.4.36 Visual magnitude of change relates to the extent to which the Project would alter 
the existing view and is an expression of the size or scale of change in the view, the 
geographical extent of the area influenced and its duration and reversibility.  The 
variables involved are described below: 
 
The scale of the change in the view with respect to the loss or addition of 
features in the view and changes in its composition, including the proportion of 
the view occupied by the Project; 
 
The degree of contrast or integration of any new features or changes in the 
form, scale, composition and focal points of the view; 
 
The nature of the view of the Project in relation to the amount of time over 
which it will be experienced and whether views will be full, partial or glimpsed; 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
11-19 
 
 
The angle of view in relation to the main activity of the receptor, distance of the 
viewpoint from the Project and the extent of the area over which the changes 
would be visible; and 
 
The duration of the change short term, medium term or long term and its 
reversibility (whether it is permanent, temporary or partially reversible). 
11.4.37 Visual magnitude of change has been evaluated with reference to Table 11-10, 
ranging from higher to lower levels of magnitude described using a four point scale 
(high, medium, low, negligible). 
Table 11-10: Magnitude of Visual Change  
Level of 
Magnitude  
Size or Scale of Change 
Geographical 
Extent 
Duration
 
 
Reversibility 
Higher 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lower 
 Extensive change to the 
existing view including 
the loss of existing 
characteristic features, 
and/or introduction of 
new discordant features; 
 A change to an extensive 
proportion of the view. 
 Views where the Project 
would become the 
dominant landscape 
feature or contrast 
heavily with the current 
view.  
 The development 
is located in the 
main focus of the 
view; and or at 
close range over a 
large area 
Long-term  
(10 years 
+) 
Irreversible 
 The Project will result in 
a change to the view but 
not fundamentally 
change its 
characteristics. 
 Changes that would be 
immediately visible but 
not the key feature of the 
view.  
 Changes where 
the Project is 
located obliquely 
to the main focus 
of the view; and/or 
at medium range; 
and/or over a 
narrow area.  
 
Medium-
term  
 (5-10 
years)  
Partially 
irreversible 
 The Project would result 
in a small change to the 
composition of the view.  
 Changes that would only 
affect a small portion of 
the view or introduce new 
features that were 
partially screened.  
 Changes where 
the Project is 
located on the 
periphery  to the 
main focus of the 
view; and/or long 
range; and/or over 
a small area 
 
Short-term 
 (0-5 
years) 
Partially 
reversible 
 Little perceptible change 
in the existing view 
 Changes where 
the Project is 
peripheral to the 
overall view.  
Short-term 
 (0-5 
years) 
Reversible 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
11-20 
 
a) Significance of Landscape Effect 
11.4.38 Determination of the significance of landscape effects has been undertaken by 
employing professional judgement to combine and analyse the magnitude of 
change, against the identified sensitivity of the receptor.  The assessment takes 
account of direct and indirect change on existing landscape elements, features and 
key characteristics and evaluates the extent to which these would be lost or 
modified, in the context of their importance in determining the existing baseline 
character. 
11.4.39 The levels of landscape effects are described with reference to the four point scale 
outlined in Table 11-11, below.  
Table 11-11: Significance of Landscape Effect  
Significance 
Classification Criteria 
Major 
Considerable change over an extensive area of a more sensitive 
landscape, fundamentally affecting the key characteristics and 
the overall impression of its character. 
Moderate 
Small or noticeable change to a more sensitive landscape or 
more intensive change to a less sensitive landscape, affecting 
some key characteristics and the overall impression of its 
character. 
Minor 
Small change to a limited area of more sensitive landscape or a 
more widespread area of a less sensitive landscape, affecting 
few characteristics and not altering the overall impression of its 
character. 
Negligible 
Scarcely any perceptible change to the existing landscape. 
11.4.40 Following the classification of an effect as detailed in Table 11.10, a clear statement 
is made as to whether the effect is ‘significant’ or ‘not significant’.  As a general rule, 
major and moderate effects are considered to be significant and minor and 
negligible effects are considered to be not significant.  However, professional 
judgement is also applied where appropriate. 
b) Significance of Visual Effect 
11.4.41 Determination of the significance of visual effects has been undertaken by 
employing professional judgement to combine and analyse the magnitude of 
change against the sensitivity of the receptor.  The assessment takes into account 
likely changes to the visual composition, including the extent to which new features 
would distract or screen existing elements in the view or disrupt the scale, structure 
or focus of the existing view.  
11.4.42 The levels of visual effects are described with reference to the four point scale 
outlined in Table 11-12, below.  
 
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
11-21 
 
Table 11-12: Significance of Visual Effect  
Significance 
Classification Criteria 
Major 
Substantial 
loss, 
alteration 
or 
replacement 
of 
existing 
components which causes a very noticeable change in the 
existing view. 
Moderate 
Whilst some existing characteristic components of the existing 
view remain, there is a noticeable change in the overall 
composition. 
Minor 
The Project would be visible in the view but would form a small 
component and the majority of the view would be unaffected. 
Negligible 
The Project would be scarcely perceptible in the existing view. 
11.4.43 Following the classification of an effect as detailed in Table 11-12, a clear statement 
is made as to whether the effect is ‘significant’ or ‘not significant’.  As a general rule, 
major and moderate effects are considered to be significant and minor and 
negligible effects are considered to be not significant.  However, professional 
judgement is also applied where appropriate. 
11.5 
Baseline Environment 
11.5.1 This section describes the baseline environmental characteristics for the Project 
and surrounding areas with specific reference to the landscape and visual resource 
and respective study areas.  It should be read with reference to Figures 11.1 – 11.8. 
a) Project Site Location and Context 
 
Site Location and Landform 
i.
11.5.2 The Project Site is situated on open agricultural land located approximately 2 km 
north of junction 46 of the M4 within the administrative boundary of the City and 
County of Swansea Council (CCS). Figure 11.1 shows the location of the Project 
approximately 1 km southeast of Felindre and 1.4 km north of Llangyfelach. The 
Project Site covers an area of up to approximately 30 ha and lies centrally within 
the Afon Lian Valley which forms a wide lowland basin with higher ground and 
steep valleys to the north and east. The valley floor is wide and undulating, backed 
to the north by upland moorland rising to over 250 m AOD and divided by 
numerous steep, narrow valleys. 
11.5.3 The Project Site is located within a valley with ground rising to the north, east and 
west which provides visual containment. Ground levels vary across the Project Site 
from approximately 140 m AOD in the north-west corner to 80 m AOD along the 
southern perimeter. Ground levels generally fall in a southerly and south easterly 
direction.  
 Movement and Connectivity 
ii.
11.5.4 Junction 46 on the M4 lies approximately 2 km to the south of the Project Site 
providing immediate access to the strategic road network between London and 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
11-22 
 
South Wales. To the immediate north of Junction 46 lies a Park and Ride at 
Brynwhilhach adjacent to the un-developed Felindre Business Park. A network of 
minor roads dissect the 5 km study area, connecting settlements and farmsteads. 
These are typically surrounded by earthbanks with hedgerow and tree planting 
which contains views along them and successfully integrates them into the wider 
landscape. The study area is well served with Public Rights of Way (PRoW) 
although not all are easily accessible or appear to be regularly used. A section of 
the Gower Way, a long distance footpath through the Afon Lliw valley passes within 
approximately 2 km at its closest point to the northern boundary of the Project Site.  
 Land Use and Built Form 
iii.
11.5.5 The Project Site is predominantly covered with pasture which is currently used for 
sheep and horse grazing as well as a band of broadleaf woodland to the east. A 
soft surface horse training track, known as ‘The Gallops’, crosses the Project Site 
and runs diagonally north-west to south-east. Broadleaf woodland which is 
classified in part as Ancient Woodland lies to the east of the Project Site as well as 
around the Access Road to the Substation and Felindre Gas Compressor Station. 
Fields across the Project Site are subdivided by ditches, post and wire fencing, 
remnant hedgerows and are interspersed with scrub vegetation. 
11.5.6 Pastoral land and woodland are the predominant land uses within the wider valley, 
including Penllergaer Forest and other smaller broadleaved woodlands that are 
scattered throughout the valley. Combined with the network of hedgerows and 
hedgerow tree planting which define many of the small and irregular shaped fields 
as well as the network of minor roads, the landscape displays a well vegetated 
character. This character of woodland, rolling topography and visual containment 
helps integrate developments in the rural fabric. 
11.5.7 The western part of the Project Site encompasses part of the Substation, adjacent 
to the Felindre Gas Compressor Station. Both the Substation and the Felindre Gas 
Compressor 
Station 
comprise 
large 
scale 
power 
infrastructure 
facilities 
characterised by tall industrial structures enclosed by security fencing and set 
within woodland planting. Pylons are prominent across the landscape and converge 
at the Substation. Pylons range in height with the closest pylon to the north of the 
Project Site 44 m in height and the pylon to the south of the Project Site, 51 m tall. 
11.5.8 To the west of the Project Site lies an Air-Insulated Switchgear (AIS) substation at 
Waun Ffyrdd. The associated overhead transmission lines and steel pylons are 
prominent elements within the valley landscape. To the north lies the Felindre 
Water Treatment Works at Waun y Garn-wen which is partially screened by 
planting although apparent in more elevated views from the north. 
11.5.9 A number of solar farms lie around the Project Site particularly to the north-east and 
east as well as to the north-west. The Felindre Business Park adjacent to the Park 
and Share at Brynwhilhach has been partially constructed with service 
infrastructure in place along with an outline landscape structure including stone 
walls and planting.   
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
11-23 
 
11.5.10 The main settlement in the 5 km study area is Swansea, with the northern edges of 
the city forming notable built form in the south and south eastern parts of the study 
area, approximately 2 km from the Project Site. The Driver and Vehicle Licensing 
Agency (DVLA) office block forms a prominent tall building and local landmark in 
many views that look south. Morriston hospital complex at Pant-lasau lies to the 
south-east of the Project Site with the settlement of Clydach extending to the east. 
Settlement locally is dispersed comprising small villages such as Felindre to the 
north-west or scattered properties and farmsteads.  
b) Landscape Character 
 
Landscape Designations 
i.
11.5.11 Landscapes can be given international, national, regional or local designations in 
recognition of their importance, outstanding scenic interest or attractiveness.  The 
Brecon Beacons National Park lies 11.8 km to the northern edge of the Project Site 
at its closest point. The ZTV (Figure 11.8) indicates that there is no theoretical 
visibility between the Project and the National Park and as such the Brecon 
Beacons National Park as a landscape receptor is not considered further in the 
assessment. 
11.5.12 The Gower Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty (AONB) lies 9.1 km to the south-
west of the Project Site. The Gower AONB was designated in 1956 for its classic 
limestone coast and the variety of natural habitats. The Gower’s scenery ranges 
from dune and salt marsh in the north to dramatic limestone cliffs along the south 
coast, interspersed by sandy beaches. Inland the hills of Cefn Bryn and Rhossili 
Down dominate the landscape of traditional small fields, wooded valleys and open 
commons. The ZTV illustrates limited visibility between the Project and the AONB. 
Views of the Project Site from within the Gower AONB are substantially screened 
by intervening woodland at Penllergaer Forest and Valley Wood, intervening 
hedgerows, hedgerow trees and copses and built form within settlements at 
Gorseinion, Penllergaer, Gowerton and Waunarlwydd, as well as extensive urban 
development within Swansea.  
11.5.13 Special Landscape Areas (SLAs) are identified in the draft UDP within Policy ER 5: 
Landscape Protection and are identified on Figure 11.1. The Policy state states that 
priority will be given to protecting, managing and enhancing the character and 
quality of the three SLAs: 
 
Mawr Uplands; 
 
Lower Loughor Valley and Estuary and Southern part of the Burry Inlet; and 
 
North East Gower and Cockett Valley. 
11.5.14 Within the SLAs, development will only be permitted where proposals include 
measures to protect, manage and enhance the character and quality of the 
particular landscape features for which the SLA has been designated. The aim of 
the Policy is to ensure that the character and quality of the County’s most valued 
landscapes are protected from inappropriate development and to encourage the 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
11-24 
 
management, enhancement and creation of key landscape features where 
possible. 
11.5.15 There are four Country Parks within the wider landscape but all lie beyond the 15 
km study area and do not experience any theoretical visibility. 
 Landscape Character Areas 
ii.
11.5.16 LANDMAP is the formally recognised national landscape resource in Wales to 
understand Landscape Character. It is an all-Wales landscape resource where 
landscape characteristics, qualities and influences on the landscape are recorded 
and evaluated. LANDMAP evaluates areas in terms of five key spatial datasets or 
Aspect areas:  
 
Geological Landscape: considers the physical, primarily geological influences 
that have shaped the contemporary landscape and identifies those landscape 
qualities which are linked to the control or influence exerted by bedrock, 
surface processes, landforms and hydrology; 
 
Landscape Habitats: identifies the characteristics and spatial relationships of 
habitats and vegetation at scales broadly comparable to other Evaluated 
Aspects; 
 
Visual and Sensory: identifies perceptual landscape qualities as well as the 
physical attributes of landform and land cover including visible patterns of 
distribution and the relationships between them; 
 
Historic Landscape: identifies those qualities that depend on key historic land 
uses, patterns and features; and 
 
Cultural Landscape: considers the links between landscape and people, how 
human activity shapes the landscape and how culture can shape the way 
people think about the landscape. Its aim is to identify those cultural patterns 
that are keeping the landscape alive today, rather than those that sustained it in 
the past. 
11.5.17 All of the above Aspect areas have been analysed with respect to the Project in 
order to inform the assessment of landscape character and are presented in 
Appendix 11.1 and Figures 11.2 to 11.6. NRW in response to the 2014 PEIR noted 
‘that the assessment of landscape character and sensitivity should consider 
information from all five aspect areas. As well as the overall evaluation for each 
aspect, 
the 
rarity/uniqueness 
evaluation 
for 
Geological 
Landscape, 
the 
connectivity/cohesion evaluation for Landscape Habitats, the scenic quality and 
character evaluation for Visual and Sensory and the rarity and group value for 
Historic Landscape and Cultural Landscape should be taken account of’. 
Landscape character derives from all five aspects within LANDMAP and it is the 
analysis and evaluation of all the aspects which has informed judgements on value, 
susceptibility and sensitivity.  
11.5.18 Effects on landscape character are considered at a Project Site level and also 
within the 5 km study area.  All five aspects have been analysed within the Project 
Site and immediate visual influence to inform judgements on value, susceptibility 
and sensitivity of the landscape character at the Project Site level. The Visual and 
Sensory Aspect areas have been considered in greater detail within the 5 km study 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
11-25 
 
area as it is considered that this Aspect area is most likely to be affected by indirect 
effects on the wider landscape setting. However, where theoretical visibility exists 
within the 5km study area, other Aspect data including Historic and Cultural 
elements have also been considered to understand the potential indirect effects on 
the landscape resource.   
c) Visual Amenity 
11.5.19 A series of 18 representative viewpoint locations have been selected to form the 
basis of the visual assessment. These have been identified to provide a 
representative cross section of visual receptors within the study area and have 
been selected in consultation with CCS and NRW. Three additional viewpoints 
have been subsequently requested by CCS and NRW and these will be included 
within the final LVIA. The locations of the viewpoints are provided on Figures 11.7 
and 11.8 and details of each, including a description of the baseline view are 
provided in Table 11.12. Vol II: Figures and Photomontages provides photography 
of the baseline view from each of the viewpoint locations. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
11-26 
 
Table 11-12: Representative Viewpoints 
No. Viewpoint name/description 
Grid Reference 
Approximate 
Distance to closest 
part of Project Site 
(m) 
Receptor 
Groups 
Easting 
Northing 
1 
North side of J64 of M4, on B4489: 
This view is representative of road users travelling north along the 
B4489. Wide, panoramic views are experienced across the rural 
wooded landscape extending to the rising upland which defines the 
skyline to the north. Road infrastructure including lighting columns 
and signage are prominent in the foreground view along with the 
extensive network of pylons and overhead lines which extend into 
and across the mid-ground of the view, punctuating the skyline. The 
Felindre Gas Compressor Station and Substation are prominent 
features within the centre of the view, all set within the extensive 
wooded landscape.  
264903.57 199456.46 1208 
Road User 
2 
Fforest-newydd 
This view is representative of views from a nearby residential 
property. Foreground views extend over gently rising grazing land 
with woodland along field boundaries to the periphery of the view. 
Pylons and associated overhead lines are prominent and dominate in 
the view. 
263926.24 201366.08 687 
Residential 
3 
Gower Way, Felindre 
This view is representative of views from the Gower Trail to the east 
of Felindre. Views extend over a shallow valley, under pasture with a 
264164.92 202975.05 1072 
Recreational 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
11-27 
 
No. Viewpoint name/description 
Grid Reference 
Approximate 
Distance to closest 
part of Project Site 
(m) 
Receptor 
Groups 
Easting 
Northing 
farmstead in the middle distance. Woodland extends along the 
skyline and on the lower slopes of the valley as well as along field 
boundaries. Pylons and overhead lines are visible in the periphery of 
the view. 
4 
Llwyngwenno, Heol Glyn-Dyfal 
This view is representative of views from an adjacent residential 
property, which sits in an elevated position above the road level. 
Views from this elevated position are wide and extend across the 
rolling mosaic of woodland and grazed fields subdivided by hedgerow 
plating and copses of trees. Prominent features include the Felindre 
Water Treatment Works buildings in the mid distance along with a 
network of pylons and overhead lines which converge at the
Substation. Solar farms are also apparent in the view along with the 
Felindre Gas Compressor Station. The southern edge of Swansea is 
visible in the distance with the DVLA premises a noticeable landmark 
building on the skyline. 
Note: The baseline photograph was taken from the road at the end of 
the property’s drive. Tall hedgerows along earth banks surround the 
Heol Glyn-Dyfal minor road which screen large sections of the view 
described above.   
263713.69 203508.13 1761 
Residential 
5 
Mynydd Pysgodlyn 
This view is representative of walkers using the Public Right of Way 
263515.23 204260.20 2451 
Recreational 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
11-28 
 
No. Viewpoint name/description 
Grid Reference 
Approximate 
Distance to closest 
part of Project Site 
(m) 
Receptor 
Groups 
Easting 
Northing 
that follows a farm track to access neighbouring communities. Views 
are panoramic from this elevated position on the edge of the high 
moorland sweeping across a series of wide, shallow valleys towards 
the northern suburbs of Swansea. This expansive view sweeps from 
the surrounding moorland across the rolling valleys beyond where a 
mosaic of fields interspersed by vegetated field boundaries and tracts 
of woodland predominate. The Felindre Water Treatment Works 
buildings, Gas Compressor Station and Substation are visible in the 
middle distance of the view along with network of pylons and 
transmission lines which are prominent in the view. 
6 
Tor Clawdd, adjacent to Ring Cairn 
This view is representative of walkers using the open access area, 
near a heritage feature (Ring Cairn – a banked and ditched circular 
earthwork, about 20 m in diameter). Views from this exposed hillside 
are expansive with wide views to the south over moorland towards 
distant valleys and hills. The northern suburbs of Swansea and the 
DVLA premises provide a distant backcloth to views. Pylons and 
associated transmission lines are discernible stretching across the 
middle distance of the view. 
267025.48 206300.56 4107 
Recreational 
 
7 
Tor Clawdd, southern end 
This view is representative of road users travelling along the local 
road to Ammanford, just north of Rhhd-y-gwin overlooking the 
patchwork of smaller pastoral fields on the lower valley sides that 
267111.55 204576.74 2675 
Road User 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
11-29 
 
No. Viewpoint name/description 
Grid Reference 
Approximate 
Distance to closest 
part of Project Site 
(m) 
Receptor 
Groups 
Easting 
Northing 
give way to open grazed moorland on the upper slopes. Views 
extend into the well wooded Afon Llan valley where extensive 
woodland cover is evident with large mature trees. Pylons and 
transmission lines are apparent within the view terminating at the 
Substation in the middle distance of the view. The northern suburbs 
of Swansea including the DVLA premises are visible in the distance 
along with the distant Gower peninsula. 
8 
Rhyd-y-pandy road near Cynghordy 
This view is representative of road users travelling along Rhyd-y-
pandy road near the property of Cynghordy. Views from the majority 
of this local road are screened by the adjacent earth banks and 
hedgerows. This view is taken from a break in the roadside 
vegetation where views of scrub and rough grassland can be seen in 
the foreground of the view with glimpsed views of pasture enclosed 
by hedgerows and mature trees in the middle distance. Swansea is 
visible in the distance against a ridgeline with a rural backdrop. 
Pylons and wood pole lines are prominent vertical features in both 
the foreground and mid ground of the view. 
266079.85 203076.56 880 
Road User 
9 
Public Right of Way, north of Aber-gelli fach 
This view is representative of walkers using the PRoW north of Aber-
gelli fach, just south of the junction of footpaths LC35B and LC35A. 
Views extend across pasture with occasional farm buildings in view. 
Field boundaries defined by hedgerows and mature trees are 
265289.87 202233.17 28 
Recreational 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
11-30 
 
No. Viewpoint name/description 
Grid Reference 
Approximate 
Distance to closest 
part of Project Site 
(m) 
Receptor 
Groups 
Easting 
Northing 
particular features in the view along with extensive woodland beyond 
the farm. Pylons and wood pole lines are prominent in the view along 
with solar farms visible in the periphery of the view. The northern 
Swansea suburbs are visible in the distance with the DVLA building 
visible against the skyline. 
10 This viewpoint (which was included in the 2014 PEIR) will be 
removed as the site visit of November 2017 revealed that foreground 
views now contain a solar farm and associated security fencing. 
Viewpoint 17 will replace this view. 
 
 
 
 
11 Llangyfelach Churchyard 
This view is representative of people visiting the churchyard and 
views from adjacent residential properties. The view is from the 
northern side of the valley looking towards Abergelli where the 
Felindre Gas Compressor Station, Substation and pylons and solar 
farms are noticeable in the mid ground view with a backdrop of 
higher ground beyond. Foreground views are concentrated on the 
immediate graveyard setting where vegetation even in winter 
substantially limits views beyond. 
264667.81 198972.21 1693 
Residential 
Recreational 
12 Carnglas 
This view is representative of residential and recreational users. The 
view is from an elevated location overlooking an industrial estate at 
261771.15 194480.84 6506 
Residential 
Recreational 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
11-31 
 
No. Viewpoint name/description 
Grid Reference 
Approximate 
Distance to closest 
part of Project Site 
(m) 
Receptor 
Groups 
Easting 
Northing 
Myndd bach-y-glo in the foreground and the north western edge of 
Swansea in the middle distance. On clear days distant views of the 
high ground at Cwmcerdinen and Tor Cawdd can be seen with the 
Brecon Beacons National Park in the far distance. 
13 Three Crosses 
This view is representative of residential and recreational users. The 
foreground of the view overlooks a shallow valley under pasture with 
riparian woodland on the lower slopes. Settlements at Waunarlwydd 
and the north western edge of Swansea are visible in the middle 
distance. Distant views extend to the higher ground at Cwmcerdinen 
and Tor Cawdd and the Brecon Beacons National Park in the far 
distance. 
257580.52 194915.11 8613 
Residential 
Recreational 
14 Public Right of Way near Maes-eglwys Farm 
This view is representative of recreational users of the PRoW and 
views from the nearby residential properties. Views from the path are 
occasionally screened by boundary planting but otherwise open out 
with foreground views of the pastoral field and cluster of properties 
and farm buildings at Maes-eglwys farm. The small fields are 
subdivided by low earth banks and hedgerow trees with woodland in 
the distance providing a vegetated backcloth to the view. Pylons and 
overhead lines are prominent features across the view and are often 
seen against the skyline. 
265348.65 200565.45 285 
Residential 
Recreational 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
11-32 
 
No. Viewpoint name/description 
Grid Reference 
Approximate 
Distance to closest 
part of Project Site 
(m) 
Receptor 
Groups 
Easting 
Northing 
Maes-eglwys farm and associated residential buildings are apparent 
in the right hand side of the view. Views from the rear of the 
properties extend over the intervening farmland along with the pylons 
appearing prominent in the view. 
15 Public Right of Way and minor road 
This view is representative of recreational users of the PRoW and 
minor road which lead to the small settlement of Pant-lasau. The 
PRoW follows the minor (no through) road and views are generally 
contained by roadside hedgerows and trees. Breaks in the hedgerow 
planting and field access gates provide views across agricultural land 
to extensive woodland which extends across the entire mid ground 
view. Land rises to the north and the mosaic of grazing land and 
hedgerow tree planting is evident in the distance of the view with a 
backcloth of hills within the Mawr uplands in long distance views. 
Pylons and associated transmission lines are prominent across the 
view, appearing against the skyline with a cluster around the 
Substation which along with the Felindre Gas Compressor Station is
noticeable built elements in the mid ground left of the view. 
265734.84 200069.07 683 
Recreational 
 
16 Dorglwyd 
This view is representative of views from Dorglwyd farmhouse 
looking northwest across agricultural land. Filtered views are 
available from this property through intervening boundary vegetation. 
Views of grazing land rising to the northwest are interspersed by 
265943.79 200652.58 289 
Residential 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
11-33 
 
No. Viewpoint name/description 
Grid Reference 
Approximate 
Distance to closest 
part of Project Site 
(m) 
Receptor 
Groups 
Easting 
Northing 
woodland and hedgerow tree planting. Pylons and transmission lines 
are prominent features within the view, seen against the skyline. 
Moorland within the Mawr uplands is visible on the horizon in the far 
distance of the view. 
 
17 Cefn Betingau Farm 
This view is representative of views from the cluster of properties at 
Cefn Betingau Farm. Foreground views extend across the gardens of 
the properties and the small pastoral field defined by post and wire 
fence and hedgerow planting. Solar panels, part of the larger solar 
farm are prominent in the view with some mature specimen trees 
partially screening views towards them. Within the mid ground of the 
view extensive woodland planting screens the majority of views of the 
valley beyond. Where views extend to the valley beyond, grazed 
fields and further planting are apparent along with structures 
associated with the Felindre Gas Compressor Station. Pylons and 
transmission lines are prominent in the view and seen against the 
skyline. The northern suburbs of Swansea are visible in the distance.
265986.97 201509.92 405 
Residential 
18 Footpath on the north side of the A48 Clasemont Road 
This view is representative of views from the residential properties 
which line the south side of Clasemont Road. There are very few 
publicly accessible views due to the roadside hedgerow and tree 
265591.10 198863.65 1874 
Residential 
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
11-34 
 
No. Viewpoint name/description 
Grid Reference 
Approximate 
Distance to closest 
part of Project Site 
(m) 
Receptor 
Groups 
Easting 
Northing 
planting which line the north side of the road and provide an effective 
screen even in the winter. Foreground views extend across grazing 
land with pockets of marshy vegetation. Extensive tree and woodland 
cover with hedgerows defining field boundaries extends across the 
mid ground of the view. Pylons and transmission lines are prominent 
features in the view converging on the Substation which is apparent 
in the centre of the middle ground of the view. The open moorland on 
the distant hills provides a backdrop to the view. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
11-35 
 
11.6 
Embedded Mitigation 
11.6.1 As detailed in Chapter 3: Project and Site Description, a number of embedded 
mitigation measures have been identified through the iterative EIA process and 
have been incorporated into the design and construction planning of the Project.   
11.6.2 As these mitigation measures have been embedded into the design, are legal 
requirements or are standard practices that will be implemented, the assessment of 
likely significant effects assumes that they are in place. 
11.6.3 Embeded mitigation measures are described in Chapter 3: Project Site and 
Description and summarised below.  
11.6.4 Mitigation measures will be implemented during the construction phase as set out 
in the Outline CEMP (Appendix 3.1) in order to limit impacts on the landscape and 
visual resource. 
11.6.5 No additional or secondary mitigation measures have been proposed as there is no 
feasible additional landscape mitigation within the Project Site which could further 
reduce the landscape and visual effects due to the height of the stack and the scale 
and mass of the Power Generation Plant. However, there may be an opportunity for 
affected parties to be engaged in a voluntary scheme of off-site planting, however, 
as this would be entirely voluntary and would not be committed, it can’t be included 
in this assessment. All effects described in Assessment of Effects (Section 11.7) 
below are therefore residual. 
11.6.6 Utilising technology (OCGT) will allow a significant reduction in stack height 
compared to other technology types. As a result of selecting OCGT technology, 
there will be no visible plume arising from the stack. The high temperature of the 
exhaust gases means that water vapour is well above the condensation point which 
would give rise to a visible plume.  
11.6.7 The architectural design of the buildings and structures on the Project Site has 
been designed to reduce glare and to assimilate the Project into the surrounding 
landscape as much as possible by using neutral recessive colours to lessen the 
contrast with the surrounding landscape and break up the overall massing of the 
large scale structures. 
11.6.8 External lighting has been designed to reduce trespass and configured to avoid 
glare and spillage, in accordance with the Outline CEMP (Appendix 3.1) 
undertaken in accordance with the Institution of Lighting Professionals Guidelines. 
11.6.9 A landscape mitigation strategy has been developed to both provide reinstatement 
planting as well as to integrate the Project into the landscape and its wider setting 
(Figure 11.10). The outline planting proposals shown on Figure 11.10 will be 
developed further for inclusion in the Environmental Statement, in accordance with 
the various utility and service constraints within the Project Site. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
11-36 
 
11.6.10 The landscape proposals will cover a minimum period of five years of monitoring, 
management and maintenance to ensure the landscape objectives are successfully 
achieved.     
11.7 
Assessment of Effects 
11.7.1 This section presents the findings of the landscape and visual effects assessment 
for the construction phase, operational and decommissioning phase of the Project. 
Landscape and visual effects arising from the construction and decommissioning 
phases would be similar and have been grouped together under the construction 
phase to avoid repetition.  
11.7.2 This section should be read in conjunction with the following Appendices and 
figures: 
 Appendix 11.2 – Assessment of Landscape Effects; 
 Appendix 11.3 – Assessment of Visual Effects; and  
 Vol II: Figures and Photomontages 
11.7.3 Appendix 11.2 provides a detailed assessment of landscape effects for the 
construction/decommissioning and operational phases of the Project, identifying the 
value, susceptibility and sensitivity of the Aspect areas affected along with 
magnitude of change and resulting level of effect.  
11.7.4 Similarly, Appendix 11.3 provides a detailed assessment of visual effects on each of 
the viewpoints for the construction/decommissioning and operational phases of the 
Project, identifying the value, susceptibility and sensitivity of the receptors affected 
along with the magnitude of change and resulting level of effect. 
11.7.5 The sections below therefore provide a summary of the likely significant effects 
during construction/decommissioning and operation on the landscape and visual 
resource. For the full assessment, reference should be made to Appendix 11.2 and 
11.3. 
a) Construction – Summary of likely significant landscape effects 
11.7.6 A 
detailed 
assessment 
of 
landscape 
effects 
during 
the 
construction/ 
decommissioning phase is contained in Appendix 11.2. The likely significant effects 
are summarised below. Whilst construction effects are all temporary (up to 2 
years), there will be differences in the duration of the temporary effects for the 
Power Generation Plant, Gas Connection and Electrical Connection with the 
construction effects associated with the Power Generation Plant extending for the 
longest period of time. 
11.7.7 Significant landscape effects are only predicted to result on the landscape resource 
of the Project Site. Effects on the surrounding landscape character within the 5 km 
study area would not be significant and are described in detail in Appendix 11.2. 
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
11-37 
 
Landscape Character – Project Site 
11.7.8 The landscape character of the Project Site is made up of the following LANDMAP 
Aspect Areas: 
 Visual and Sensory Aspect Areas – Rhyd-y-pandy and Penllergaer forest; 
 Landscape Habitats Aspect Areas – North of Gorseinon and Swansea; East of 
Penllergaer; Waun Y Garn Wen; 
 Historic Landscape Aspect Area – H27 Gower Supraboscus Agricultural; 
 Geological Landscape Aspect Area – Penllergaer; and 
 Cultural Landscape Aspect Area – The Mawr. 
11.7.9 It is the combination of all of the above Aspect areas which defines the overall 
character of the landscape at the Project Site level and as such value, susceptibility 
and sensitivity have been determined by consideration of each of these Aspect 
areas which have led to the following judgements. 
11.7.10 Value: With reference to the LANDMAP overall evaluation, the Aspect areas range 
from Moderate to Outstanding. The Aspect areas considered to be of High or 
Outstanding value tend not to be particularly apparent within the Project Site and 
consequently the landscape character of the Project Site is considered to be of 
Medium value. 
11.7.11 Susceptibility: The landscape resource of the Project Site is considered to have 
some capacity to accommodate the Project without effects upon its overall integrity.  
The pattern of the landscape reflects a mostly intact pattern of elements, with 
features in reasonable condition although a number of detracting elements exist 
such as the prominent power lines and adjacent Felindre Gas Compressor Station 
and Substation. Taking all of this into account, landscape susceptibility to change is 
considered to be Medium. 
11.7.12 Sensitivity: Taking into account value judgements and susceptibility, overall 
sensitivity of the landscape character for the Project Site is considered to be 
Medium. 
 
Power Generation Plant  
i.
11.7.13 Construction of the Power Generation Plant would result in temporary adverse 
effects as a result of the construction plant and activities, laydown areas and 
temporary structures on site. During construction there would be a permanent loss 
of landscape features including grazing land, trees and scrub vegetation along with 
extensive earth re-profiling. Construction noise, activities and lighting would reduce 
the relative tranquillity in the vicinity of the Project Site. Construction of the Access 
Road would result in the removal of trees and some woodland although the wider 
woodland structure and the associated strong degree of enclosure and shelter it 
currently provides would remain intact.  
11.7.14 Across the entire Project Site, the temporary presence of construction plant, 
activities and lighting would introduce noticeable features uncharacteristic of the 
landscape at present. As a result of these changes and the partial loss and 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
11-38 
 
alteration of some of the key characteristics, magnitude of change is considered to 
be Medium.   
11.7.15 The Medium sensitivity of the landscape character of the Project Site combined 
with the Medium magnitude of change would result in a Moderate Adverse effect on 
the landscape character of the Project Site during construction. 
 Gas Connection 
ii.
11.7.16 The construction of the Gas Connection would result in temporary adverse effects 
as a result of the construction plant and activity involved in constructing the Above 
Ground Installation (AGI) along with an access road into it off the Rhyd-y-pandy 
road and the underground Gas Pipeline. The open trench method of constructing 
the Gas Pipeline would result in the temporary removal of grazing land and the 
permanent removal of sections of field boundary hedgerow and trees. 
11.7.17 The temporary presence of construction plant, activities and lighting would 
introduce noticeable features uncharacteristic of the landscape at present. As a 
result of these changes and the partial loss and alteration of some of the key 
characteristics, magnitude of change is considered to be Medium.   
11.7.18 The Medium sensitivity assessed combined with the Medium magnitude of change 
would result in a Moderate Adverse effect on the landscape character of the 
Project Site during construction. 
 Electrical Connection 
iii.
11.7.19 The Electrical Connection route would run immediately adjacent to the alignment of 
the new Access Road and so disruption associated with its construction would be 
similar to that of the new Access Road as described above. However, the 
construction activity and plant associated with the Electrical Connection alone 
would only result in localised and limited effects to the landscape character 
resulting in a small loss of woodland and hedgerow planting which would not affect 
the integrity or key characteristics of the landscape. Magnitude of change would be 
Low which combined with the Medium sensitivity would result in a Minor Adverse 
effect on the landscape character of the Project Site during construction. 
 The Project (all components) 
iv.
11.7.20 Construction of the Power Generation Plant would result in temporary adverse 
effects as a result of the construction plant and activities, laydown areas and 
temporary structures on site. During construction there would be a permanent loss 
of landscape features including grazing land, trees and scrub vegetation along with 
extensive earth re-profiling. Construction noise, activities and lighting would reduce 
the relative tranquillity in the vicinity of the Project Site. Construction of the Access 
Road would result in the removal of trees and some woodland although the wider 
woodland structure and its associated strong degree of enclosure and shelter it 
currently provides would remain intact.  
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
11-39 
 
11.7.21 The construction of the Gas Connection would result in temporary adverse effects 
as a result of the construction plant and activity involved in constructing the AGI 
along with an Access Road into it off the Rhyd-y-pandy road and the Gas 
Connection. The open trench method of constructing the Gas Pipeline would result 
in the temporary removal of grazing land and the permanent removal of sections of 
field boundary hedgerow and trees.  
11.7.22 The Electrical Connection route would follow the alignment of the new Access Road 
and so disruption associated with its construction would be similar to that of the 
new Access Road as described above. 
11.7.23 Across the entire Project Site, the temporary presence of construction plant, 
activities and lighting would introduce noticeable features uncharacteristic of the 
landscape at present. As a result of these changes and the partial loss and 
alteration of some of the key characteristics, magnitude of change is considered to 
be Medium.   
11.7.24 The Medium sensitivity assessed combined with the Medium magnitude of change 
would result in a Moderate Adverse effect on the landscape character of the 
Project Site during construction. 
b) Construction – Summary of likely significant visual effects 
11.7.25 A 
detailed 
assessment 
of 
visual 
effects 
during 
the 
construction 
and 
decommissioning phases is contained in Appendix 11.3. Of the 18 representative 
viewpoints assessed only 5 of the viewpoints representing views from residential 
receptors or recreational routes within 700 m of the Project Site would experience 
significant effects during the construction and decommissioning phases of the 
Project. All other viewpoints across the 15 km study area would either experience a 
Minor Adverse or Negligible effect or no effect at all.  
11.7.26 The Project Site lies within a valley where it is visually contained from the north, 
east and west by the higher valley sides and vegetation. Views from local roads are 
screened or filtered by hedges and earth banks. Views overlooking the Project Site 
from higher ground to the north and more distant views from the south east close to 
the Gower AONB would not experience significant effects due to the intervening 
distance, vegetation and built form. Where views of the construction of the upper 
parts of the Power Generation Plant and stack are visible in the middle distance of 
views, they would be seen in the context of the existing network of pylons and 
transmission lines as well as the tall structures present at the Felindre Gas 
Compressor Station and Substation and as a result would not experience 
significant visual effects. 
11.7.27 The remaining significant effects would be experienced by viewpoints 
representative of residential and recreational receptors within close proximity to the 
Project Site and are summarised below. 
 
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
11-40 
 
 
Power Generation Plant  
i.
11.7.28 Significant effects during construction are predicted to be experienced at 5 of the 
18 representative viewpoints assessed. 
11.7.29 Viewpoint 9 – Public Right of Way, north of Aber-gelli fach. 
11.7.30 This view overlooks the Power Generation Plant where construction plant and 
activity associated with the upper parts of the gas turbine unit and stack would be 
visible in the view. Much of the Project Site would be screened by intervening 
woodland and scrub vegetation. The degree of screening provided by existing 
vegetation would reduce during winter months when some construction plant and 
activities including lighting would be more visible through the intervening woodland 
and hedgerows.   
11.7.31 Magnitude of change would be Medium which when combined with a Medium 
sensitivity would result in a Moderate Adverse effect. 
11.7.32 Viewpoint 14 – Public Right of Way near Maes-eglwys Farm 
11.7.33 Construction activity and plant associated with the Power Generation Plant would 
be prominent in views from this location. Whilst some of the construction of the 
lower sections of plant would be screened by tall hoardings (>3 m high) and 
intervening vegetation in summer months, the change to the view whilst temporary 
would be extensive and prominent affecting a wide part of the view.  
11.7.34 Magnitude of change would be High which when combined with the High sensitivity 
would result in a Major Adverse effect. 
11.7.35 Viewpoint 15 – Public Right of Way and Minor Road 
11.7.36 Temporary construction activity and taller plant such as cranes associated with the 
construction of the stack and upper parts of the Power Generation Plant would be 
visible against the skyline. Intervening trees and woodland would limit the extent of 
construction activity visible in the view although, the degree of screening provided 
by existing vegetation would reduce during winter months when some construction 
plant and activities including lighting would be more visible through the intervening 
woodland and hedgerows.   
11.7.37 Magnitude of change would be Medium which combined with the Medium 
Sensitivity would result in a Moderate Adverse effect. 
11.7.38 Viewpoint 16 – Dorglwyd 
11.7.39 The lower part of the Power Generation Plant would be screened by intervening 
trees during the construction period. Construction plant associated with the gas 
turbine unit and stack would be prominent in the view and visible against the 
skyline. The change to the view whilst temporary would be extensive and prominent 
affecting a wide part of the view. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
11-41 
 
11.7.40 Magnitude of change would be High which combined with the High Sensitivity 
would result in a Major Adverse effect. 
11.7.41 Viewpoint 17 – Cefn Betingau Farm 
11.7.42 Construction activity and plant associated with the Power Generation Plant would 
be prominent in views from this location. Whilst some of the construction of the 
lower sections of plant would be screened by extensive intervening woodland and 
landform the taller plant and lighting would be prominent in the view.  
11.7.43 Whilst the intervening woodland would limit the extent of construction activity visible 
in the view in the summer months, the degree of screening provided by the 
woodland would reduce during winter months when construction plant and activities 
including lighting, whilst temporary, would be extensive and prominent affecting a 
wide part of the view.  
11.7.44 Magnitude of change would be High which when combined with the High sensitivity 
would result in a Major Adverse effect. 
 Gas Connection 
ii.
11.7.45 During construction significant effects resulting from the construction of the Gas 
Connection are predicted to only occur at one of the representative viewpoints. 
11.7.46 Viewpoint 9 – Public Right of Way, north of Aber-gelli fach. 
11.7.47 The focus of this view is towards the Power Generation Plant, however, the Gas 
Connection route would cut across the fields to the right of the view where the 
construction activity and plant would be a prominent although temporary element of 
the view. Further south some screening would be provided by intervening trees and 
hedges. Whilst the construction of the AGI would not be visible from this particular 
point on the PRoW, construction of it would be prominent in the view of walkers as 
they travel north. 
11.7.48 Magnitude of change would be Medium which when combined with a Medium 
sensitivity would result in a Moderate Adverse effect. 
 Electrical Connection 
iii.
11.7.49 There would be no significant effects on any of the views from the representative 
viewpoints as a result of construction of the Electrical Connection. 
 The Project (all components) 
iv.
11.7.50 The construction plant and activity associated with the construction of the most 
visually prominent element of the Project would be the Power Generation Plant 
including the stack. As such the significant visual effects experienced by receptors 
for the construction and decommissioning phases of the Project as a whole would 
be as described in the Power Generation Plant section above with significant 
effects experienced at 5 of the 18 representative viewpoints assessed (viewpoints 
9, 14, 15, 16 and 17).   
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
11-42 
 
 
c) Operation – Summary of significant landscape effects 
11.7.51 A detailed assessment of landscape effects during the operation phase is contained 
in Appendix 11.2. The significant effects are summarised below. 
11.7.52 Significant landscape effects are only predicted to result on the landscape resource 
of the Project Site. Effects on the surrounding landscape character within the 5 km 
study area would not be significant and are described in detail in Appendix 11.2. 
Landscape Character – Project Site 
11.7.53 The landscape character of the Project Site is made up of the following LANDMAP 
Aspect Areas: 
 Visual and Sensory Aspect Areas – Rhyd-y-pandy and Penllergaer forest; 
 Landscape Habitats Aspect Areas – North of Gorseinon and Swansea; East of 
Penllergaer; Waun Y Garn Wen; 
 Historic Landscape Aspect Area – H27 Gower Supraboscus Agricultural; 
 Geological Landscape Aspect Area – Penllergaer; and 
 Cultural Landscape Aspect Area – The Mawr. 
11.7.54 It is the combination of all of the above Aspect areas which defines the overall 
character of the landscape at the Project Site level and as such value, susceptibility 
and sensitivity have been determined by consideration of each of these Aspect 
areas which have led to the following judgements. 
11.7.55 Value: With reference to the LANDMAP overall evaluation, the Aspect areas range 
from Moderate to Outstanding. The Aspect areas considered to be of High or 
Outstanding value tend not to be particularly apparent within the Project Site and 
consequently the landscape character of the Project Site is considered to be of 
Medium value. 
11.7.56 Susceptibility: The landscape resource of the Project Site is considered to have 
some capacity to accommodate the Project without effects upon its overall integrity.  
The pattern of the landscape reflects a mostly intact pattern of elements, with 
features in reasonable condition although a number of detracting elements exist 
such as the prominent power lines and adjacent Felindre Gas Compressor Station 
and Substation. Taking all of this into account, landscape susceptibility to change is 
considered to be Medium. 
11.7.57 Sensitivity: Taking into account value judgements and susceptibility, overall 
sensitivity of the landscape character for the Project Site is considered to be 
Medium. 
 
Power Generation Plant  
i.
11.7.58 Once operational the Power Generation Plant would be a prominent feature within 
the immediate landscape of the Project Site. It would result in the partial loss to 
landscape features, including grazing land, trees and scrub vegetation, which 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
11-43 
 
would result in a partial change to some of the landscape characteristics although it 
would not diminish the overall integrity of the landscape. 
11.7.59 The Access Road would lie substantially within the woodland characteristic of the 
Penllergaer Forest Aspect Area which would retain its qualities providing a strong 
degree of enclosure and shelter.  
11.7.60 Across the wider Project Site there would be a partial loss to some of the key 
characteristics of the landscape but this would not result in an obvious change to 
the overall character of the area. These effects would be long term. At year of 
opening the magnitude of change would be Medium which when combined with the 
Medium sensitivity to change would result in a Moderate Adverse effect on the 
landscape character of the Project Site. 
11.7.61 Once the structure planting around the Power Generation Plant establishes it would 
assist in providing some additional structure to the landscape which would assist in 
integrating elements of the development into the local landscape. Nonetheless, 
despite the establishment of the planting, the magnitude of effect is considered to 
remain Medium in the long term (year 15) as there would remain a noticeable 
alteration of the existing components of the landscape of the Project Site. This 
would result in a Moderate Adverse effect on the landscape character of the Project 
Site. 
 Gas Connection 
ii.
11.7.62 There would be no significant effects on the landscape character as a result of the 
Gas Connection. 
 Electrical Connection 
iii.
11.7.63 There would be no significant effects on the landscape character as a result of the 
Electrical Connection. 
 The Project (all components) 
iv.
11.7.64 Once operational the Power Generation Plant would be a prominent feature within 
the immediate landscape of the Project Site. It would result in the partial loss to 
landscape features, including grazing land, trees and scrub vegetation, which 
would result in a partial change to some of the landscape characteristics although it 
would not diminish the overall integrity of the landscape. 
11.7.65 The Access Road would lie substantially within the woodland characteristic of the 
Penllergaer Forest Aspect Area which would retain its qualities providing a strong 
degree of enclosure and shelter.  
11.7.66 The Gas Pipeline would be reinstated upon operation with fields returned to grazing 
and field boundaries reinstated with hedgerow and tree planting. Structure planting 
and reinstatement boundary vegetation would be planted around the AGI to assist 
in assimilating it within the immediate landscape pattern. Planting would extend up 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
11-44 
 
to existing field boundaries in order to retain the field pattern and avoid land 
severance.  
11.7.67 The Electrical Connection route would be buried immediately adjacent to the 
Access Road and the long term residual effects on the landscape would be similar 
to the Access Road as described above. 
11.7.68 Across the wider site there would be a partial loss to some of the key 
characteristics of the landscape but would not result in an obvious change to the 
overall character of the area. These effects would be long term.  At year of opening 
the magnitude of change would be Medium which when combined with the Medium 
sensitivity to change would result in a Moderate Adverse effect on the landscape 
character of the Project Site. 
11.7.69 Once the structure planting around the Power Generation Plant and AGI 
establishes it would assist in providing some additional structure to the landscape 
which alongside the reinstatement hedgerow planting and fields returned to grazing 
along the Gas Pipeline route would assist in integrating elements of the 
development into the local landscape. Nonetheless, despite the establishment of 
the planting, the magnitude of effect is considered to remain Medium at year 15 as 
there would remain a noticeable alteration of the existing components of the 
landscape of the Project Site. This would result in a Moderate Adverse effect on 
the landscape character of the Project Site. 
d) Operation – Summary of significant visual effects 
11.7.70 A detailed assessment of visual effects during the operation phase is contained in 
Appendix 11.3. Of the 18 representative viewpoints assessed only 5 of the 
viewpoints representing views from residential receptors or recreational routes 
within 700 m of the Project Site would experience significant effects once the 
Project is operational. All other viewpoints across the 15 km study area would 
either experience a Minor Adverse or Negligible effect or no effect at all.  
11.7.71 The Project Site lies within a valley where it is visually contained from the north, 
east and west by the higher valley sides and vegetation. Views from local roads are 
screened or filtered by hedges and earth banks. Views overlooking the Project Site 
from higher ground to the north and more distant views from the south east close to 
the Gower AONB would not experience significant effects due to the intervening 
distance, vegetation and built form. Where the upper parts of the Power Generation 
Plant and stack are visible in the middle distance of views, they would be seen in 
the context of the existing network of pylons and transmission lines as well as the 
tall structures present at the Felindre Gas Compressor Station and Substation and 
as a result would not experience significant visual effects. 
11.7.72 The remaining significant effects would be experienced by viewpoints 
representative of residential and recreational receptors within close proximity (700 
m) to the Project Site where the landscape mitigation planting (Figure 11.10) would 
not be able to reduce the significant effects experienced. These significant effects 
are summarised below. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
11-45 
 
 
Power Generation Plant  
i.
11.7.73 Significant effects associated with the Power Generation Plant during operation 
would be experienced at 5 of the 18 representative viewpoints assessed. 
11.7.74 Viewpoint 9 – Public Right of Way, north of Aber-gelli fach. 
11.7.75 Once operational the upper part of the gas turbine and stack would be visible 
against the vegetated backcloth of rising ground to the south, within a small portion 
of the centre of the mid ground of the view. Whilst they would be seen in the 
immediate context of the pylons and the stack would not be visible against the 
skyline, it would introduce a noticeable element into the view resulting in a partial 
change to the composition of the view. 
11.7.76 Magnitude of change would be Medium which when combined with a Medium 
sensitivity would result in a Moderate Adverse effect.  
11.7.77 Viewpoint 14 – Public Right of Way near Maes-eglwys Farm 
11.7.78 The Power Generation Plant and in particular the upper part of the Generating 
Equipment Site would appear prominent in the view, at close range, changing an 
extensive proportion of the view. The stack would appear against the skyline at a 
similar height as the adjacent pylons but more apparent due to the solid mass of 
the stack structure. Whilst mitigation structure planting once established would help 
to screen lower parts of the Power Generation Plant, the taller structures would 
remain prominent. Overall there would be an extensive change to the composition 
of the existing view. 
11.7.79 Magnitude of change would be High which combined with the High Sensitivity 
would result in a Major Adverse effect. 
11.7.80 Viewpoint 15 – Public Right of Way and Minor Road 
11.7.81 The taller structures in the Power Generation Plant including the stack would be 
visible from this viewpoint. The stack would be seen against the skyline and at a 
similar height as the adjacent pylons although would appear more prominent as it 
would be a denser structure. There would be a partial change to the composition of 
the view which whilst immediately visible would not become the key features in the 
view particularly given the existing industrial elements apparent in the view. 
11.7.82 Magnitude of change would be Medium which combined with the Medium 
Sensitivity would result in a Moderate Adverse effect. 
11.7.83 Viewpoint 16 – Dorglwyd 
11.7.84 Once operational and during winter months, there would be clear views of the taller 
structures within the Power Generation Plant, viewed over extensive intervening 
woodland. The stack would be prominent and seen against the skyline. Whilst it 
would appear smaller than the adjacent pylon in the view, the stack would appear 
as prominent due to its denser structure. During summer months the Power 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
11-46 
 
Generation Plant including the stack would be barely discernible due to the 
boundary screen planting, however, the degree of screening provided by this 
vegetation would reduce during winter months when the taller structures would 
remain prominent. Overall there would be an extensive change to the composition 
of the existing view.   
11.7.85 Magnitude of change would be High which combined with the High Sensitivity 
would result in a Major Adverse effect. 
11.7.86 Viewpoint 17 – Cefn Betingau Farm 
11.7.87 The Power Generation Plant and in particular the upper part of the generating 
equipment would appear prominent in the view, at close range, changing an 
extensive proportion of the view, particularly during winter months. The stack would 
appear against the skyline at a similar height as the adjacent pylons but more 
apparent due to the solid mass of the stack structure. Whilst mitigation structure 
planting once established would help to screen lower parts of the Power 
Generation Plant, the taller structures would remain prominent particularly during 
the winter when the intervening vegetation would offer less screening. Overall there 
would be an extensive change to the composition of the existing view. 
11.7.88 Magnitude of change would be High which combined with the High Sensitivity 
would result in a Major Adverse effect. 
 Gas Connection 
ii.
11.7.89 Once operational, the Gas Connection would not result in any significant visual 
effects from the representative viewpoints assessed.  
 Electrical Connection 
iii.
11.7.90 Once operational, the Electrical Connection would not result in any significant 
visual from the representative viewpoints assessed. 
 Project “in combination” Effects 
iv.
11.7.91 The most visually prominent element of the Project would be the Power Generation 
Plant including the stack. Although the Project Site is surrounded by existing 
woodland and undulating topography which would screen the lower parts of the 
Power Generation Plant the stack and upper parts of the Power Generation Plant 
would be visible above it. The existing vegetation screen would be strengthened by 
additional woodland and hedgerow planting as part of the landscape mitigation 
strategy (Figure 11.10). Nonetheless the Power Generation Plant would result in 
significant adverse visual effects for the viewpoints representative of views 
experienced by nearby residential properties and recreational receptors within 700 
m of the Project Site. 
11.7.92 As such the visual effects associated with the Project as a whole would be the 
same as those described in the Power Generation Plant section above with 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
11-47 
 
significant effects experienced at 5 of the 18 representative viewpoints assessed 
(viewpoints 9, 14, 15, 16 and 17).   
11.8 
Mitigation and Monitoring  
11.8.1 Embedded mitigation measures, which have been incorporated within the design of 
the Project or are standard practice measures that have been committed to are 
summarised in Section 11.5. All mitigation measures for the landscape and visual 
assessment are embedded.  
11.9 
Residual Effects 
11.9.1 As all mitigation is embedded in the Project and there is no additional mitigation, all 
effects described in the Assessment of Effects section above are residual. The 
following tables therefore present a summary of the landscape and visual 
assessment.  
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
AECOM 
11-48 
 
Table 11-13: Landscape and Visual Assessment Summary of Effects Arising during Construction and Decommissioning Phases 
Receptor 
Description of Effect 
Classification 
of effect 
Additional Mitigation  
Classification of 
Residual Effect 
Significant / Not 
Significant 
The Project (all components) 
Landscape Character  
around Project Site 
(refer to Appendix 
11.2 for LANDMAP 
Aspect Areas) 
Effect on Landscape 
Character 
Moderate 
Adverse  
N/A 
Moderate Adverse 
Significant 
Landscape Character 
within 5 km study 
area (refer to 
Appendix 11.2 for 
LANDMAP Aspect 
Areas) 
Effect on Landscape 
Character 
Minor Adverse 
to  
Negligible (refer 
to Appendix 
11.2) 
N/A 
Minor Adverse to  
Negligible (refer to 
Appendix 11.2) 
Not significant 
VP 1 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
Minor Adverse  
N/A 
Minor Adverse  
Not significant 
VP 2 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 3 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 4 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
Negligible Effect N/A 
Negligible Effect 
Not significant 
VP 5 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
Negligible Effect N/A 
Negligible Effect 
Not significant 
VP 6 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
Negligible Effect N/A 
Negligible Effect 
Not significant 
VP 7 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
Negligible Effect N/A 
Negligible Effect 
Not significant 
VP 8 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
Minor Adverse  
N/A 
Minor Adverse  
Not significant 
VP 9 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
Moderate 
Adverse 
N/A 
Moderate Adverse 
Significant 
VP 10 (this viewpoint will be removed as the site visit of November 2017 revealed that foreground views now contain a solar farm and 
associated security fencing. Viewpoint 17 will replace this view. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
AECOM 
11-49 
 
Receptor 
Description of Effect 
Classification 
of effect 
Additional Mitigation  
Classification of 
Residual Effect 
Significant / Not 
Significant 
VP 11 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
Minor Adverse  
N/A 
Minor Adverse  
Not significant 
VP 12 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 13 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 14 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
Major Adverse  
N/A 
Major Adverse  
Significant 
VP 15 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
Moderate 
Adverse 
N/A 
Moderate Adverse 
Significant 
VP 16 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
Major Adverse  
N/A 
Major Adverse  
Significant 
VP 17 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
Major Adverse  
N/A 
Major Adverse  
Significant 
VP 18 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
Minor Adverse 
N/A 
Minor Adverse  
Not significant 
Power Generation Plant 
Landscape Character  
around Project Site 
(refer to Appendix 
11.2 for LANDMAP 
Aspect Areas) 
Effect on Landscape 
Character 
Moderate 
Adverse  
N/A 
Moderate Adverse 
Significant 
Landscape Character 
within 5 km study 
area (refer to 
Appendix 11.2 for 
LANDMAP Aspect 
Areas) 
Effect on Landscape 
Character 
Minor Adverse 
to  
Negligible (refer 
to Appendix 
11.2) 
N/A 
Minor Adverse to  
Negligible (refer to 
Appendix 11.2) 
Not significant 
VP 1 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
Minor Adverse  
N/A 
Minor Adverse  
Not significant 
VP 2 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 3 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 4 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
Negligible Effect N/A 
Negligible Effect 
Not significant 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
AECOM 
11-50 
 
Receptor 
Description of Effect 
Classification 
of effect 
Additional Mitigation  
Classification of 
Residual Effect 
Significant / Not 
Significant 
VP 5 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
Negligible Effect N/A 
Negligible Effect 
Not significant 
VP 6 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
Negligible Effect N/A 
Negligible Effect 
Not significant 
VP 7 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
Negligible Effect N/A 
Negligible Effect 
Not significant 
VP 8 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
Minor Adverse  
N/A 
Minor Adverse  
Not significant 
VP 9 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
Moderate 
Adverse 
N/A 
Moderate Adverse 
Significant 
VP 10 (this viewpoint will be removed as the site visit of November 2017 revealed that foreground views now contain a solar farm and 
associated security fencing. Viewpoint 17 will replace this view. 
VP 11 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
Minor Adverse  
N/A 
Minor Adverse  
Not significant 
VP 12 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 13 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 14 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
Major Adverse  
N/A 
Major Adverse  
Significant 
VP 15 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
Moderate 
Adverse 
N/A 
Moderate Adverse 
Significant 
VP 16 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
Major Adverse  
N/A 
Major Adverse  
Significant 
VP 17 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
Major Adverse  
N/A 
Major Adverse  
Significant 
VP 18 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
Minor Adverse 
N/A 
Minor Adverse  
Not significant 
Gas Connection 
Landscape Character  
around Project Site 
(refer to Appendix 
11.2 for LANDMAP 
Aspect Areas) 
Effect on Landscape 
Character 
Moderate 
Adverse  
N/A 
Moderate Adverse 
Significant 
Landscape Character Effect on Landscape 
Minor Adverse 
N/A 
Minor Adverse to  
Not significant 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
AECOM 
11-51 
 
Receptor 
Description of Effect 
Classification 
of effect 
Additional Mitigation  
Classification of 
Residual Effect 
Significant / Not 
Significant 
within 5 km study 
area (refer to 
Appendix 11.2 for 
LANDMAP Aspect 
Areas) 
Character 
to  
Negligible (refer 
to Appendix 
11.2) 
Negligible (refer to 
Appendix 11.2) 
VP 1 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
Minor Adverse  
N/A 
Minor Adverse   
Not significant 
VP 2 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 3 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 4 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 5 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 6 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 7 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
Negligible Effect N/A 
Negligible Effect 
Not significant 
VP 8 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 9 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
Moderate 
Adverse 
N/A 
Moderate Adverse 
Significant 
VP 10 (this viewpoint will be removed as the site visit of November 2017 revealed that foreground views now contain a solar farm and 
associated security fencing. Viewpoint 17 will replace this view. 
VP 11 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 12 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 13 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 14 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 15 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 16 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
AECOM 
11-52 
 
Receptor 
Description of Effect 
Classification 
of effect 
Additional Mitigation  
Classification of 
Residual Effect 
Significant / Not 
Significant 
VP 17 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 18 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
Electrical Connection 
Landscape Character  
around Project Site 
(refer to Appendix 
11.2 for LANDMAP 
Aspect Areas) 
Effect on Landscape 
Character 
Minor Adverse  
N/A 
Minor Adverse 
Not significant 
Landscape Character 
within 5 km study 
area (refer to 
Appendix 11.2 for 
LANDMAP Aspect 
Areas) 
Effect on Landscape 
Character 
Minor Adverse 
to  
Negligible (refer 
to Appendix 
11.2) 
N/A 
Minor Adverse to  
Negligible (refer to 
Appendix 11.2) 
Not significant 
VP 1 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 2 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 3 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 4 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 5 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 6 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 7 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 8 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 9 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 10 (this viewpoint will be removed as the site visit of November 2017 revealed that foreground views now contain a solar farm and 
associated security fencing. Viewpoint 17 will replace this view. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
AECOM 
11-53 
 
Receptor 
Description of Effect 
Classification 
of effect 
Additional Mitigation  
Classification of 
Residual Effect 
Significant / Not 
Significant 
VP 11 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 12 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 13 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 14 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
Minor Adverse  
N/A 
Minor Adverse  
Not significant 
VP 15 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 16 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 17 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 18 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
 
Table 11-13: Landscape and Visual Assessment Summary of Effects Arising during Operational Phase 
Receptor 
Description of Effect 
Classification 
of effect 
Additional Mitigation  
Classification of 
Residual Effect 
Significant / Not 
Significant 
The Project (all components) 
Landscape Character  
around Project Site 
(refer to Appendix 
11.2 for LANDMAP 
Aspect Areas) 
Effect on Landscape 
Character 
Moderate 
Adverse  
N/A 
Moderate Adverse 
Significant 
Landscape Character 
within 5 km study 
area (refer to 
Appendix 11.2 for 
LANDMAP Aspect 
Areas) 
Effect on Landscape 
Character 
Minor Adverse 
to  
Negligible (refer 
to Appendix 
11.2) 
N/A 
Minor Adverse to  
Negligible (refer to 
Appendix 11.2) 
Not significant 
VP 1 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
Minor Adverse  
N/A 
Minor Adverse  
Not significant 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
AECOM 
11-54 
 
Receptor 
Description of Effect 
Classification 
of effect 
Additional Mitigation  
Classification of 
Residual Effect 
Significant / Not 
Significant 
VP 2 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 3 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 4 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
Negligible Effect N/A 
Negligible Effect 
Not significant 
VP 5 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
Negligible Effect N/A 
Negligible Effect 
Not significant 
VP 6 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
Negligible Effect N/A 
Negligible Effect 
Not significant 
VP 7 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
Negligible Effect N/A 
Negligible Effect 
Not significant 
VP 8 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
Minor Adverse  
N/A 
Minor Adverse  
Not significant 
VP 9 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
Moderate 
Adverse 
N/A 
Moderate Adverse 
Significant 
VP 10 (this viewpoint will be removed as the site visit of November 2017 revealed that foreground views now contain a solar farm and 
associated security fencing. Viewpoint 17 will replace this view. 
VP 11 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
Minor Adverse  
N/A 
Minor Adverse  
Not significant 
VP 12 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 13 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 14 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
Major Adverse  
N/A 
Major Adverse  
Significant 
VP 15 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
Moderate 
Adverse 
N/A 
Moderate Adverse 
Significant 
VP 16 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
Major Adverse  
N/A 
Major Adverse  
Significant 
VP 17 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
Major Adverse  
N/A 
Major Adverse  
Significant 
VP 18 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
Minor Adverse 
N/A 
Minor Adverse  
Not significant 
Power Generation Plant 
Landscape Character  
around Project Site 
Effect on Landscape 
Character 
Moderate 
Adverse  
N/A 
Moderate Adverse 
Significant 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
AECOM 
11-55 
 
Receptor 
Description of Effect 
Classification 
of effect 
Additional Mitigation  
Classification of 
Residual Effect 
Significant / Not 
Significant 
(refer to Appendix 
11.2 for LANDMAP 
Aspect Areas) 
Landscape Character 
within 5 km study 
area (refer to 
Appendix 11.2 for 
LANDMAP Aspect 
Areas) 
Effect on Landscape 
Character 
Minor Adverse 
to  
Negligible (refer 
to Appendix 
11.2) 
N/A 
Minor Adverse to  
Negligible (refer to 
Appendix 11.2) 
Not significant 
VP 1 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
Minor Adverse  
N/A 
Minor Adverse  
Not significant 
VP 2 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 3 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 4 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
Negligible Effect N/A 
Negligible Effect 
Not significant 
VP 5 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
Negligible Effect N/A 
Negligible Effect 
Not significant 
VP 6 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
Negligible Effect N/A 
Negligible Effect 
Not significant 
VP 7 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
Negligible Effect N/A 
Negligible Effect 
Not significant 
VP 8 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
Minor Adverse  
N/A 
Minor Adverse  
Not significant 
VP 9 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
Moderate 
Adverse 
N/A 
Moderate Adverse 
Significant 
VP 10 (this viewpoint will be removed as the site visit of November 2017 revealed that foreground views now contain a solar farm and 
associated security fencing. Viewpoint 17 will replace this view. 
VP 11 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
Minor Adverse  
N/A 
Minor Adverse  
Not significant 
VP 12 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 13 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
AECOM 
11-56 
 
Receptor 
Description of Effect 
Classification 
of effect 
Additional Mitigation  
Classification of 
Residual Effect 
Significant / Not 
Significant 
VP 14 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
Major Adverse  
N/A 
Major Adverse  
Significant 
VP 15 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
Moderate 
Adverse 
N/A 
Moderate Adverse 
Significant 
VP 16 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
Major Adverse  
N/A 
Major Adverse  
Significant 
VP 17 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
Major Adverse  
N/A 
Major Adverse  
Significant 
VP 18 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
Minor Adverse 
N/A 
Minor Adverse  
Not significant 
Gas Connection 
Landscape Character  
around Project Site 
(refer to Appendix 
11.2 for LANDMAP 
Aspect Areas) 
Effect on Landscape 
Character 
Minor Adverse  
N/A 
Minor Adverse 
Not significant 
Landscape Character 
within 5 km study 
area (refer to 
Appendix 11.2 for 
LANDMAP Aspect 
Areas) 
Effect on Landscape 
Character 
Minor Adverse 
to  
Negligible (refer 
to Appendix 
11.2) 
N/A 
Minor Adverse to  
Negligible (refer to 
Appendix 11.2) 
Not significant 
VP 1 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
Negligible  
N/A 
Negligible   
Not significant 
VP 2 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 3 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 4 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 5 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 6 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 7 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
AECOM 
11-57 
 
Receptor 
Description of Effect 
Classification 
of effect 
Additional Mitigation  
Classification of 
Residual Effect 
Significant / Not 
Significant 
VP 8 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 9 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
Negligible 
N/A 
Negligible 
Not significant 
VP 10 (this viewpoint will be removed as the site visit of November 2017 revealed that foreground views now contain a solar farm and 
associated security fencing. Viewpoint 17 will replace this view. 
VP 11 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 12 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 13 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 14 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 15 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 16 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 17 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 18 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
Electrical Connection 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Landscape Character  
around Project Site 
(refer to Appendix 
11.2 for LANDMAP 
Aspect Areas) 
Effect on Landscape 
Character 
Negligible  
N/A 
Negligible 
Not significant 
Landscape Character 
within 5 km study 
area (refer to 
Appendix 11.2 for 
LANDMAP Aspect 
Areas) 
Effect on Landscape 
Character 
Negligible  
N/A 
Negligible 
Not significant 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
AECOM 
11-58 
 
Receptor 
Description of Effect 
Classification 
of effect 
Additional Mitigation  
Classification of 
Residual Effect 
Significant / Not 
Significant 
VP 1 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 2 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 3 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 4 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 5 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 6 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 7 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 8 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 9 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 10 (this viewpoint will be removed as the site visit of November 2017 revealed that foreground views now contain a solar farm and 
associated security fencing. Viewpoint 17 will replace this view. 
VP 11 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 12 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 13 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 14 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 15 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 16 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 17 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
VP 18 
Effect on Visual Amenity 
No Effect 
N/A 
No Effect 
Not significant 
 
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
11-59 
 
11.10 Cumulative Effects  
a) Assessment 
of 
Potential 
Cumulative 
Effects 
– 
Construction 
and 
Decommissioning 
 
Description of Impact 
i.
11.10.1 The following potential cumulative effects on landscape and visual receptors have 
been identified as potentially arising as a result of construction and 
decommissioning of the Project in combination with other schemes set out in 
Chapter 17: Cumulative Impacts. Only receptors considered to experience 
significant residual effects as identified in the landscape and visual assessment of 
the Project have been considered below in combination with the potential effects 
from the cumulative projects. 
 
Landscape character of the Project Site comprising the following Aspect 
Areas:  
- 
Visual and Sensory Aspect Areas – Rhyd-y-pandy and Penllergaer forest; 
- 
Landscape Habitats Aspect Areas – North of Gorseinon and Swansea; 
East of Penllergaer; Waun Y Garn Wen; 
- 
Historic Landscape Aspect Area – H27 Gower Supraboscus Agricultural; 
- 
Geological Landscape Aspect Area – Penllergaer; and 
- 
Cultural Landscape Aspect Area – The Mawr 
 
Viewpoint 9 – views experienced from the PRoW north of Aber-gelli fach; 
 
Viewpoint 14 – views experienced from the PRoW near Maes-eglwys Farm; 
 
Viewpoint 15 – views experienced from the PRoW and minor road which lead 
to Pant-lasau; 
 
Viewpoint 16 – views from Dorglwyd residential property; and 
 
Viewpoint 17 – views from Cefn Betingau Farm. 
11.10.2 However, no cumulative development would be visible from viewpoints 14, 16 and 
17 and are therefore not considered any further in the cumulative assessment. 
ii. Assessment of cumulative effect 
11.10.3 The following cumulative developments are located within the Aspect areas which 
characterise the landscape of the Project Site: 
Rhyd-y-pandy (Visual and Sensory) 
 
1.9.11 (Felindre Business Park) 
 
Identified/Allocated sites 23, 24, 27-29 
Penllergaer forest (Visual and Sensory) 
 
6 – Former J R Steelworks, Bryntywod 
 
10 – Llettyr Morfil Farm 
 
12 – Griffiths Waste Management Site 
 
21 – Land at Bryntywod 
11.10.4 The construction activity and plant associated with the Project in combination with 
the construction of these cumulative developments would result in localised effects 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
11-60 
 
on these Visual and Sensory Aspect areas, with the cumulative developments 
concentrated in areas that are already influenced by development. As such the 
introduction of construction activity and lighting associated with the Project into this 
cumulative picture would result in a partial change to some of the landscape 
characteristics although it would not be sufficient to diminish the overall integrity of 
the landscape. 
North of Gorseinon and Swansea (Landscape Habitats) 
 
Identified/Allocated sites 23, 28, 29 
East of Penllergaer (Landscape Habitats) 
 
1, 9, 11 (Felindre Business Park) 
 
6 – Former J R Steelworks, Bryntywod 
 
10 – Llettyr Morfil Farm 
 
12 – Griffiths Waste Management Site 
 
24 – NW of M4 J46, Llangyfelach 
Waun Y Garn Wen (Landscape Habitats) 
 
No cumulative schemes 
11.10.5 The construction activity and plant associated with the Project in combination with 
these cumulative schemes is considered to have localised effects on the grassland 
habitats but not sufficient to result in a noticeable change to the landscape habitat 
characteristics. 
H27 Gower Supraboscus Agricultural (Historic Landscape) 
 
1, 9, 11 (Felindre Business Park) 
 
6 – Former J R Steelworks, Bryntywod 
 
10 – Llettyr Morfil Farm 
 
12 – Griffiths Waste Management Site 
 
24 – NW of M4 J46, Llangyfelach 
 
Identified/Allocated sites 24, 27-29 
11.10.6 The construction activity and plant associated with the Project in combination with 
these cumulative schemes is considered to have a localised effect on the enclosed 
pattern of fields typical of this historic landscape Aspect area. 
Penllergaer (Geological Landscape) 
 
1, 9, 11 (Felindre Business Park) 
 
6 – Former J R Steelworks, Bryntywod 
 
10 – Llettyr Morfil Farm 
 
12 – Griffiths Waste Management Site 
 
24 – NW of M4 J46, Llangyfelach 
 
Identified/Allocated sites 24, 27-29 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
11-61 
 
11.10.7 The construction activity and plant associated with the Project in combination with 
these cumulative schemes is not considered to affect key features of geological or 
geomorphological significance. 
The Mawr (Cultural Landscape) 
 
1, 9, 11 (Felindre Business Park) 
 
6 – Former J R Steelworks, Bryntywod 
 
10 – Llettyr Morfil Farm 
 
12 – Griffiths Waste Management Site 
 
24 – NW of M4 J46, Llangyfelach 
 
Identified/Allocated sites 24, 27-29 
11.10.8 The construction activity and plant associated with the Project in combination with 
these cumulative schemes is not considered to affect the multi-period historic and 
evolved cultural significance. 
11.10.9 Overall the construction activity and plant associated with the Project in 
combination with the construction of these cumulative schemes would result in 
localised effects on these Aspect areas which define the landscape character of the 
Project Site, with the cumulative developments mainly concentrated in areas that 
are already influenced by development. As such the introduction of construction 
plant and lighting associated with the Project into this cumulative picture would 
result in a partial change to some of the landscape characteristics of the Project 
Site area although it would not be sufficient to diminish the overall integrity of the 
landscape. 
11.10.10Cumulative magnitude of change would be Low which combined with the Medium 
sensitivity would result in a Minor Adverse cumulative effect which is not 
significant. 
Viewpoint 9 – ProW, north of Aber-gelli fach 
11.10.11 The construction of the following cumulative developments would potentially be 
visible from this viewpoint: 
 
1 – Felindre Business Park 
 
6 – Former Steelworks, Bryntywod 
 
10 – Llettyr Morfil Farm 
 
11 – Plot 8 Felindre Business Park 
 
12 – Griffiths Waste Management Site 
 
15 – Land at Llewellyn Road 
 
16 – Royal Fern Golf Resort 
 
17 – Parc Ceirw 
 
19 – Former Civic Centre Penllergaer 
 
Identified/Allocated sites 21-24, 26-29 
11.10.12 Construction associated with the majority of the above cumulative schemes would 
be barely discernible in the view due to distance, intervening planting, landform and 
built fabric. The only cumulative developments where the plant and construction 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
11-62 
 
activity might be visible in combination with the Project would be schemes 27 and 
29, both of which are Identified/Allocated sites, where little information is currently 
available. Construction plant and activity associated with the residential 
development in scheme 27 might appear in the distant view against the urban 
backcloth of north Swansea. The construction of the potential Combined Heat and 
Power (CHP) facility (scheme 29) might potentially be visible in the mid-ground of 
the view.  
11.10.13 The construction of the Project in combination with these two schemes has the 
potential to introduce construction activity into small, separate parts of the view 
resulting in a limited cumulative change. As such the construction of the Project in 
combination with these two cumulative schemes would result in a Low magnitude 
of cumulative change which when combined with the Medium sensitivity of the 
receptor would result in a Minor Adverse cumulative effect which is not significant. 
11.10.14 
Viewpoint 15 – ProW and Minor Road 
11.10.15 The construction of the following cumulative development would potentially be 
visible from this viewpoint: 
 
28 – Morriston Hospital 
11.10.16 This is an Identified/Allocated site and little information is available about the future 
development, either in terms of location or scale. Construction plant and activity 
associated with the Project in combination with the construction of cumulative 
scheme 28 might result in small changes to the mid-ground view, although 
intervening vegetation would limit the extent of construction activity visible. 
11.10.17 At worst, cumulative magnitude of change would be Low which combined with the 
Medium sensitivity would result in a Minor Adverse cumulative effect.  
 Mitigation 
ii.
11.10.18 As no significant cumulative effects are predicted, it is not considered necessary to 
identify additional mitigation, management actions or monitoring.  
 Residual cumulative effect 
iii.
11.10.19 As no mitigation is proposed, all effects described in Section 0 above are residual. 
These are summarised in Table 11-14. 
Table 11-14: Cumulative landscape and visual effects arising during construction and decommissioning phases 
Receptor 
Sensitivity 
Cumulative 
Magnitude  
Level of cumulative 
effects/significance 
Landscape Character  
around Project Site (refer to 
Appendix 11.2 for 
LANDMAP Aspect Areas) 
Medium 
Low 
Minor Adverse 
Not significant 
Viewpoint 9 
Medium 
Low 
Minor Adverse 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
11-63 
 
Receptor 
Sensitivity 
Cumulative 
Magnitude  
Level of cumulative 
effects/significance 
Not significant 
Viewpoint 15 
Medium 
Low 
Minor Adverse 
Not significant 
 
b) Assessment of Potential Cumulative Effects – Operation 
 
Description of impact 
i.
11.10.20 The following potential cumulative impacts on landscape and visual receptors have 
been identified as potentially arising as a result of operation of the Project in 
combination with other schemes set out in Chapter 17. Only receptors considered 
to experience significant residual effects as identified in the landscape and visual 
assessment of the Project have been considered below in combination with the 
potential effects from the cumulative projects. 
 
Landscape character of the Project Site comprising the following Aspect 
Areas:  
- 
Visual and Sensory Aspect Areas – Rhyd-y-pandy and Penllergaer forest; 
- 
Landscape Habitats Aspect Areas – North of Gorseinon and Swansea; 
East of Penllergaer; Waun Y Garn Wen; 
- 
Historic Landscape Aspect Area – H27 Gower Supraboscus Agricultural; 
- 
Geological Landscape Aspect Area – Penllergaer; and 
- 
Cultural Landscape Aspect Area – The Mawr 
 
Viewpoint 9 – views experienced from the PRoW north of Aber-gelli fach; 
 
Viewpoint 14 – views experienced from the PRoW near Maes-eglwys Farm; 
 
Viewpoint 15 – views experienced from the PRoW and minor road which lead 
to Pant-lasau; 
 
Viewpoint 16 – views from Dorglwyd residential property; and 
 
Viewpoint 17 – views from Cefn Betingau Farm. 
11.10.21 However, no cumulative development would be visible from viewpoints 14, 16 and 
17 and are therefore not considered any further in the cumulative assessment. 
 Assessment of cumulative effect 
ii.
11.10.22 
The following cumulative developments are located within the Aspect areas 
which characterise the landscape of the Project Site: 
Rhyd-y-pandy (Visual and Sensory) 
 
1.9.11 (Felindre Business Park) 
 
Identified/Allocated sites 23, 24, 27-29 
Penllergaer forest (Visual and Sensory) 
 
6 – Former J R Steelworks, Bryntywod 
 
10 – Llettyr Morfil Farm 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
11-64 
 
 
12 – Griffiths Waste Management Site 
 
21 – Land at Bryntywod 
11.10.23 The Project in combination with these cumulative developments would result in 
localised effects on these Visual and Sensory Aspect areas, with the cumulative 
developments concentrated in areas that are already influenced by development. 
As such the introduction of the Project into this cumulative picture would result in a 
partial change to some of the landscape characteristics although it would not be 
sufficient to diminish the overall integrity of the landscape. 
North of Gorseinon and Swansea (Landscape Habitats) 
 
Identified/Allocated sites 23, 28, 29 
East of Penllergaer (Landscape Habitats) 
 
1, 9, 11 (Felindre Business Park) 
 
6 – Former J R Steelworks, Bryntywod 
 
10 – Llettyr Morfil Farm 
 
12 – Griffiths Waste Management Site 
 
24 – NW of M4 J46, Llangyfelach 
Waun Y Garn Wen (Landscape Habitats) 
 
No cumulative schemes 
11.10.24 The Project in combination with these cumulative schemes is considered to have 
localised effects on the grassland habitats but not sufficient to result in a noticeable 
change to the landscape habitat characteristics. 
H27 Gower Supraboscus Agricultural (Historic Landscape) 
 
1, 9, 11 (Felindre Business Park) 
 
6 – Former J R Steelworks, Bryntywod 
 
10 – Llettyr Morfil Farm 
 
12 – Griffiths Waste Management Site 
 
24 – NW of M4 J46, Llangyfelach 
 
Identified/Allocated sites 24, 27-29 
11.10.25 The Project in combination with these cumulative schemes is considered to have a 
localised effect on the enclosed pattern of fields typical of this historic landscape 
Aspect area. 
Penllergaer (Geological Landscape) 
 
1, 9, 11 (Felindre Business Park) 
 
6 – Former J R Steelworks, Bryntywod 
 
10 – Llettyr Morfil Farm 
 
12 – Griffiths Waste Management Site 
 
24 – NW of M4 J46, Llangyfelach 
 
Identified/Allocated sites 24, 27-29 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
11-65 
 
11.10.26 The Project in combination with these cumulative schemes is not considered to 
affect key features of geological or geomorphological significance. 
The Mawr (Cultural Landscape) 
 
1, 9, 11 (Felindre Business Park) 
 
6 – Former J R Steelworks, Bryntywod 
 
10 – Llettyr Morfil Farm 
 
12 – Griffiths Waste Management Site 
 
24 – NW of M4 J46, Llangyfelach 
 
Identified/Allocated sites 24, 27-29 
11.10.27 The Project in combination with these cumulative schemes is not considered to 
affect the multi-period historic and evolved cultural significance. 
11.10.28 Overall the Project in combination with these cumulative schemes would result in 
localised effects on these Aspect areas which define the landscape character of the 
Project Site, with the cumulative developments mainly concentrated in areas that 
are already influenced by development. As such the introduction of the Project into 
this cumulative picture would result in a partial change to some of the landscape 
characteristics of the Project Site area although it would not be sufficient to diminish 
the overall integrity of the landscape. 
11.10.29 Cumulative magnitude of change would be Low which combined with the Medium 
sensitivity would result in a Minor Adverse cumulative effect which is not 
significant. 
Viewpoint 9 – ProW, north of Aber-gelli fach 
11.10.30 The following cumulative developments would potentially be visible from this 
viewpoint: 
 
1 – Felindre Business Park 
 
6 – Former Steelworks, Bryntywod 
 
10 – Llettyr Morfil Farm 
 
11 – Plot 8 Felindre Business Park 
 
12 – Griffiths Waste Management Site 
 
15 – Land at Llewellyn Road 
 
16 – Royal Fern Golf Resort 
 
17 – Parc Ceirw 
 
19 – Former Civic Centre Penllergaer 
 
Identified/Allocated sites 21-24, 26-29 
11.10.31 The majority of the above cumulative schemes would be barely discernible in the 
view due to distance, intervening planting, landform and built fabric. The only 
cumulative developments which might be visible in combination with the Project 
would be schemes 27 and 29, both of which are Identified/Allocated sites and so 
little information is currently available. Once operational the residential mixed use 
development (scheme 27) would be barely discernible from the northern urban 
edge of Swansea. Depending on the scale of the CHP facility (scheme 29) it might 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
11-66 
 
be visible in the mid-ground of the view, partially screened by intervening 
vegetation. The Project in combination with scheme 29 would introduce another 
industrial development into the mid-ground of the view, although it would occupy a 
different horizontal extent of the view and would be partially screened by 
vegetation. The Low cumulative magnitude of change combined with the medium 
sensitivity would result in a Minor Adverse cumulative effect which would not be 
significant. 
Viewpoint 15 – ProW and Minor Road 
11.10.32 The following cumulative development would potentially be visible from this 
viewpoint: 
 
28 – Morriston Hospital 
11.10.33 This is an Identified/Allocated site and little information is available about this future 
development, either in terms of location or scale. There is a possibility that the 
Project would be visible in combination with cumulative scheme 28, however, 
intervening vegetation is likely to screen much of cumulative scheme 28 and the 
introduction of the Project into this cumulative picture would at worst result in a Low 
cumulative magnitude of change. This combined with the Medium sensitivity would 
result in a Minor Adverse cumulative effect which would not be significant. 
 Mitigation   
iii.
11.10.34 As no significant cumulative effects are predicted, it is not considered necessary to 
identify additional mitigation, management actions or monitoring.  
 Residual cumulative effect 
iv.
11.10.35 As no mitigation is proposed, all effects described in Section 0 above are residual. 
These are summarised in Table 11-15. 
Table 11-15: Cumulative landscape and visual effects arising during operation phase 
Receptor 
Sensitivity 
Cumulative 
Magnitude  
Level of cumulative 
effects/significance 
Landscape Character  
around Project Site (refer to 
Appendix 11.2 for 
LANDMAP Aspect Areas) 
Medium 
Low 
Minor Adverse 
Not significant 
Viewpoint 9 
Medium 
Low 
Minor Adverse 
Not significant 
Viewpoint 15 
Medium 
Low 
Minor Adverse 
Not significant 
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
11-67 
 
11.11 Conclusions and Next Steps 
11.11.1 The Project Site is situated on open agricultural land approximately 2 km north of 
junction 46 of the M4. It sits within the Afon Lian Valley which forms a wide lowland 
basin with higher ground and steep valleys to the north and east. The valley floor is 
wide and undulating, backed to the north by upland moorland and divided by 
numerous steep, narrow valleys. To the south the northern suburbs of Swansea 
extend to the M4 corridor.  Pastoral land and woodland are the predominant land 
uses within the wider valley including Penllergaer Forest as well as other smaller 
broadleaved woodlands. Combined with the network of hedgerows and hedgerow 
tree planting which define many of the small and irregular shaped fields and the 
network of minor roads, the landscape displays a well vegetated character. This 
character of woodland, rolling topography and visual containment helps integrate 
developments into the rural fabric. 
11.11.2 Large scale power infrastructure predominates within the landscape with the 
Felindre Gas Compressor Station and Substation immediately adjacent to the 
Project Site and the Air-Insulated Switchgear substation to the south west. The 
associated network of overhead transmission lines and steel pylons are prominent 
elements within the valley landscape. To the north lies the Felindre Water 
Treatment Works at Waun y Garn-wen and around the Project Site lie a number of 
solar farms. 
11.11.3 The Project comprises three main components, which have the potential to affect 
the landscape and visual resource; Power Generation Plant including a 45 m high 
stack, Gas Connection and Electrical Connection. The potential effects of these 
components as well as the Project as a whole on the landscape and visual 
resource have been considered across the construction/decommissioning and 
operation phases of the Project. The LANDMAP Aspect areas have been analysed 
and the effects on the character of these have been considered at a Project Site 
level as well as within the 5 km landscape study area. Eighteen representative 
viewpoints have been selected to represent a range of receptor types and 
distances across the 15 km visual study area and have informed the visual 
assessment. 
11.11.4 During the construction/decommissioning phase of works, significant adverse 
effects would be limited to the LANDMAP Aspect areas at a Project Site level and 
five of the eighteen viewpoints, where the embedded mitigation would not be 
sufficient to reduce these significant adverse effects. Once operational the 
embedded landscape mitigation would assist in screening lower parts of the Power 
Generation Plant but would not be sufficient to reduce significant adverse effects on 
the LANDMAP Aspect areas at a Project Site level and from five of the eighteen 
viewpoints. This is due to the scale and mass of the Power Generation Plant and 
height of the stack.  
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
11-68 
 
11.11.5 However, the landscape resource contained within the 5 km study area and the 
majority of viewpoints would not experience significant adverse effects. The Project 
Site lies within a valley which combined with the existing woodland and undulating 
topography provides a high degree of visual containment. Views from local roads 
are screened or filtered by hedgerows and earth banks. Views overlooking the 
Project Site from higher ground to the north and from more distant views to the 
south east near to the Gower AONB would not experience significant effects due to 
the intervening distance, vegetation and built form. Where views of the upper parts 
of the Power Generation Plant and stack are visible in the middle distance of views, 
they would be seen in the context of the existing network of pylons and 
transmission lines as well as the tall structures present at the Felindre Gas 
Compressor Station and Substation. As a result significant residual effects on the 
landscape and visual resource are localised and not extensive. 
11.11.6 The Project would not result in any significant cumulative effects on the landscape 
and visual resource. 
11.12 References 
Ref. 11.1 
Prepared by Natural England by Land Use Consultants. Integrating the 
European Landscape Convention: Parts 1-3 Guidance. 2009 
Ref. 11.2 
Landscape Institute and Institute of Environmental Assessment and 
Management. Guidelines for Landscape and Visual Impact Assessment. 3rd 
Edition. 2013  
Ref. 11.3 
Natural Resources Wales. LANDMAP Methodological Guidance Series. 2016 
Ref. 11.4 
Landscape Institute. Landscape Institute Advice Note 01/11: Photography and 
photomontage in landscape and visual impact assessment. Landscape 
Institute, 2011 
 
