 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND SECTION 172 STATEMENT 
 
 
Drax Power Limited 
Governance arrangements 
 
Good governance is a key factor in securing the long-term success of our business. During 2022, the Company 
applied its own corporate governance arrangements. As a minimum, the Company has arrangements in place 
that largely mirror the Wates Principles, however, some of the arrangements take into account the need to 
comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code which is applied throughout the Drax Group plc Group 
(“Group”). 
 
Our purpose 
 
Our purpose is to enable a zero carbon, lower cost energy future. Our three strategic objectives – to be a global 
leader in sustainable biomass pellets; to be a global leader in carbon removals; and to be a UK leader in 
dispatchable renewable power – are aligned with a number of global energy policies. These objectives are closely 
aligned with our ambition to be a carbon negative company and we continue to develop options for bioenergy 
with carbon capture and storage (BECCS) which we believe could become a UK-led solution for large-scale 
carbon removals.  
 
Responding to climate change is a core component of our governance framework. The Group CEO reports 
quarterly to the Drax Group plc Board on Environment, Social and Governance performance, including climate-
related matters. Climate change factors are considered in decisions taken by the Drax Group plc Board. 
 
Culture and values 
 
Our values are driven by our culture, fundamental to which is acting with integrity – what we call “doing the 
right thing.” This belief underpins our People Positive strategy which encompasses all aspects of a colleague’s 
experience and aims to create a workplace where all colleagues are able to feel supported and achieve their 
best.  
 
The safety and health of our people remains a key priority for the Group and the Board. Safety is a long-held and 
central commitment of our operational philosophy. We believe that safe and compliant operations are integral 
to the delivery of our strategy, and we continue to work across the Group to identify, implement and maintain 
high standards supported by a positive safety culture. For more information see pages 67 and 68 of the Drax 
Group plc 2022 Annual report and accounts.  
 
We are committed to a supportive, diverse and inclusive working environment, where you can be yourself and 
your contribution matters. We aim to support everyone and to design ways of working that are inclusive and 
flexible. For more information see pages 69, 70 and 96 of the Drax Group plc 2022 Annual report and accounts 
. 
We are committed to conducting business ethically, with honesty and integrity, and in compliance with relevant 
laws and regulations. We do not tolerate any form of bribery, corruption, human rights abuse, or other unethical 
business conduct. 
 
Our business ethics compliance framework identifies the behaviours expected from colleagues on a broad range 
of topics. In 2022, we continued our annual eLearning refreshers and provided additional training to certain ‘at 
higher risk’ teams throughout the year on business ethics related topics. For more details on how the business 
ethics programme is managed across the Drax Group, see pages 71 to 73 of the Drax Group plc 2022 Annual 
report and accounts. 
 
 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND SECTION 172 STATEMENT 
 
 
 
Leadership and Succession 
 
Investing in the development of our people is essential to the delivery of our business strategy. Our Potential 
and Succession processes enable senior leaders to identify individuals with the skills and capability needed for 
critical roles. Individuals identified can be nominated for our Future Creators programme. Launched in 2019, the 
Future Creators programme is designed to develop and retain high-potential individuals and grow our leadership 
pipeline. Each individual has a personal development plan and a Drax Group plc Executive Committee sponsor. 
 
We are committed to developing new talent and providing our colleagues with the skills and capabilities to 
support them in fulfilling their career aspirations. In 2022, we launched our Senior Leadership development 
offering with 88 Senior Leaders participating. Additionally, our senior leaders continue to participate in our 
Inclusive Leadership Programme, which supports managers in helping to improve diversity outcomes across the 
Group.  
 
Further information on leadership, succession and diversity can be found on page 70 of the Drax Group plc 2022 
Annual Report and Accounts. 
 
Effectiveness and accountability 
 
Management meets regularly to discuss strategic and operational matters. Management regularly reviews 
safety performance and monthly KPIs which include Total Recordable Injury rate (TRIR) and Lost Time Injury Rate 
(LTIR) as well as financial and environmental KPIs. Throughout the year management also reviewed HR data, risk 
matters and feedback from stakeholders. There is open debate and constructive discussion at the meetings and 
there are formal and robust processes in place to ensure the data provided to management is reliable. Those 
who submit information to management must include considerations of key stakeholders. 
 
Risk management 
 
The Board is responsible for the management of all risks at the Company. The Company operates a three lines 
of defence model to facilitate the effective operation of the Drax Group’s Risk Management Framework. This 
model provides a standardised risk management process that defines the accountability and ownership of risk 
across the business. The Drax Group Risk Management Framework ensures each of the Company’s principal risks 
have appropriate oversight. 
 
Oversight of each principal risk is delegated to a specialist committee and each committee conducts a regular 
‘deep dive’ of the underlying risks related to its Principal Risk category. All relevant risks are recorded on an 
appropriate risk register and are mapped to one of Drax Group’s Principal Risk categories. 
 
The internal control environment is based on Group-level financial and operational controls supported by 
controls within each business unit and independent assurance from internal and external audit. The 
effectiveness of internal controls at the Company is supported by a control risk self-assessment process and 
reported to the Drax Group Executive Committee and Audit Committee. 
 
Remuneration 
 
The remuneration of those directors who are also executive directors of Drax Group plc are subject to the Drax 
Directors Remuneration Policy (Policy) which is approved by Drax shareholders. The implementation of the 
Policy is the responsibility of the Drax Remuneration Committee (a Committee of the Drax Group plc Board). The 
Remuneration Committee may choose to apply discretion to the remuneration of those directors if they believe 
the formulaic outcomes of variable pay programmes do not appropriately reflect company performance. In the 
event any discretion is applied, the justification is clearly stated in the Annual Report for the relevant financial 
year. The Remuneration Committee considers external market benchmarking data to inform executive 
remuneration decisions, as well information and insight from shareholders, industry bodies and employees. 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND SECTION 172 STATEMENT 
 
 
 
A key priority for Drax is to ensure fair and appropriate remuneration decisions for directors and the wider 
workforce. Details of the Drax Remuneration Policy, which was approved at the 2023 AGM, can be found on 
pages 136 to 146 in the Drax Group plc 2022 Annual Report and Accounts. 
 
In 2022, the Group decided to bring forward the 2023 pay review from 1 April 2023 to 1 January 2023. The aim 
was to support colleagues by allowing them to benefit from changes to pay earlier in the year – specifically, 
during the winter period when energy bills are higher. In addition, the 2023 pay review budget was significantly 
higher than prior years with average pay rises of 8% in the UK.  Additionally, as in previous years, all colleagues 
were eligible to take part in the annual bonus programme, unless precluded by alternative arrangements with 
their respective trade union group. The bonus award is designed to reward the delivery of targets and objectives 
aligned with the financial and strategic performance of the Group.  
 
The directors, the Group Executive Committee members and all others in senior management roles also 
participated in a Long-Term Incentive Share Plan. In line with the current Directors Remuneration Policy, an 
award from the Long-Term Incentive Share Plan is subject to the achievement of Total Shareholder Return 
relative to the FTSE 350 and Cumulative Adjusted Earnings Per Share; both are measured over a three-year 
performance period. These performance measures are linked to the Group’s strategy and aligned with long-
term creation of value for the Group’s shareholders. 
 
The Drax Diversity and Inclusion Steering Group monitors diversity and inclusion across the Group, including the 
gender pay gap. The gender pay gap is monitored across individual business units so that actions to address the 
pay gap can be appropriately considered for each business unit. The working group works with the HR function 
and wider leadership teams to identify, develop and implement initiatives to promote diversity. 
 
Working with our stakeholders 
 
Engaging with our stakeholders is fundamental to our success. We recognise that to achieve our purpose, we 
need to listen to, and work with, a diverse range of interested parties. For more information on our stakeholders, 
how we engage with them and have regard to their interests, please refer to the Companies Act, Section 172 
statement. 
 
 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND SECTION 172 STATEMENT 
 
 
Companies Act, Section 172 statement 
The Directors have a duty to promote the success of the Company, having regard to a range of matters and 
stakeholders. The Board is responsible for ensuring effective engagement with stakeholders it recognises that 
decisions taken today will have an impact upon stakeholders, as well as shape the longer-term performance of 
the business. Appropriate consideration is important in enabling Drax to deliver positive outcomes for the 
climate, nature and people, and to deliver sustainable value creation.  
Examples of how the Board have had regard to the matters set out in Section 172 are set out below. 
Comprehensive details in respect of stakeholders identified across the Group and how we engage with them 
and have regard to their interests, can be found from page 27 to 33 in the Drax Group plc 2022 Annual Report 
and Accounts. 
The likely consequences of any decision in the long term 
Our purpose is to enable a zero carbon, lower cost energy future. With multi-year time horizons for many of our 
strategic and investment decisions, we recognise that these decisions can have an impact far beyond our 
business and well into the future. Our decisions support the Group’s long-term strategy: to be a global leader in 
sustainable biomass pellets; to be a global leader in carbon removals; and to be a UK leader in dispatchable, 
renewable power. 
The interests of the Company’s workforce 
Engaging with our colleagues is a priority and starts with listening to, and better understanding, their views. 
Established in 2019, our workforce engagement forums (“MyVoice Forums”) are a valuable way for the Board 
and senior management to undertake such engagement. The MyVoice Forums are made up of colleague 
members from each part of our business, to ensure representation for every function. They provide us with a 
view of colleague sentiment and key topics that are on colleagues’ minds. In respect of our annual employee 
engagement survey, our engagement and inclusion scores have improved since 2021. The 2021 engagement 
survey highlighted that leading change, our social and environmental commitment, and providing opportunities 
for careers and development are what matter most to our colleagues. In 2022, our survey results showed that 
good progress has been made on leading change on and careers and development. However, there is more work 
to do to help build colleague understanding around our social and environmental commitments.  
A member of the Group Executive Committee and an HR representative support these forums and attend each 
meeting. The MyVoice Forum chairs meet quarterly with the Chair and CEO of the Group to discuss colleague 
sentiment and to provide feedback on key topics. 
We also maintain regular dialogue with our workforce through our colleague briefings, weekly updates from the 
Group CEO with a question-and-answer section responding to colleague questions, our pulse and annual 
engagement surveys, and communication about the Group’s strategy, plans and performance. During 2022, 
communications included updates about progress against the Group-wide scorecard, which includes KPIs in 
relation to financial, strategic, safety and sustainability performance. Annual bonuses for colleagues are linked 
to the scorecard performance, ensuring that employee reward and Group performance are aligned. We actively 
encourage participation in the Group-wide all-employee Sharesave scheme, offering the maximum discount of 
20% and waiving any length of service requirements. 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND SECTION 172 STATEMENT 
 
 
The need to foster the Company’s business relationships  
Suppliers 
Our relationships with suppliers are governed by contracts that include our minimum standards including 
compliance with relevant regulatory and legal requirements, anti-bribery and corruption, modern slavery and 
supplier code of conduct. These minimum standards are regularly reviewed by our Procurement, Legal, and 
Business Ethics functions. The Group has also signed up to the Prompt Payment Code, and monitors performance 
to both continue to improve payment performance and maintain positive supplier relationships. 
Regulators and network operators 
Engagement with Ofgem, BEIS, and the Electricity System Operator allows us to promote the delivery of a secure, 
reliable energy system offering best value for consumers. Engagement with Ofgem, environmental agencies and 
the ICO enables us to promote best practice and ensure we remain compliant with latest guidance. 
The impact of the Company’s operations on the community and the environment 
Tackling climate change is at the heart of our purpose, and our strategic objectives are aligned to global 
renewable energy and decarbonisation agendas. Our Group ambition is to become carbon negative by 2030. We 
plan to achieve this by reducing emissions as far as possible while using removals delivered through Bioenergy 
Carbon Capture and Storage (“BECCS”) to neutralise our remaining emissions. For more information see pages 
47 to 65 in the Drax Group plc 2022 Annual report and accounts. 
Drax is an active participant in the communities in which it operates. Strong community relationships and 
effective engagement strengthen our ability to operate effectively in those regions. We engage regularly with 
communities through supporting local initiatives and holding drop-in sessions. To read more about our positive 
social impact across the Group, see pages 28 and 31 to 33 in the Drax Group plc 2022 Annual report and 
accounts. 
Drax is committed to being a global force for good. In 2022, the Group approved a proposal to set up a global 
corporate giving model to support this vision. In 2023, the Group launched the Drax Foundation, which will 
manage and distribute a fund for community investment and giving across the Group’s core territories. Covering 
the UK, US and Canada, the Foundation will be under the governance of a new sub-committee of the Drax Group 
plc Board. The Foundation will enable Drax to invest in larger-scale and longer-term projects in each of our 
territories, and to provide financial support and sponsorship to local community projects and charities. The 
Foundation will provide a tangible link to the Group’s sustainability strategy. All projects will require an 
assessment to ensure they have the potential to deliver at least one of the following outcomes: 
• 
Climate positive: Contributing to tackling the climate crisis 
• 
Nature positive: Contributing to creating and maintaining thriving, sustainable natural environments 
• 
People positive: Helping those most at risk in the transition to net zero to find sustainable, meaningful 
work and to support education. 
 
 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND SECTION 172 STATEMENT 
 
 
The desirability of the Company maintaining a reputation for high standards of business 
conduct 
At Drax, we are committed to conducting business ethically, with honesty and integrity, and in compliance with 
relevant laws and regulations. We do not tolerate any form of bribery, corruption, human rights abuse, or other 
unethical business conduct. 
Our business ethics compliance framework identifies the behaviours expected from colleagues on a broad range 
of topics. In 2022, we delivered our annual eLearning refreshers and provided additional training to certain ‘at 
higher risk’ teams throughout the year on business ethics related topics. For more details on how the business 
ethics programme is managed, see pages 71 to 73 of the Drax Group plc 2022 Annual report and accounts. 
The need to act fairly as between members of the Company 
Our ultimate parent company is Drax Group plc and therefore we act in the best interests of our immediate and 
ultimate parent companies and, in doing so, in the best interest of the investors and shareholders of the Group. 
This ensures that the interests of all relevant stakeholders, and the need to act fairly between members of the 
Company, are considered during decision-making. 
Engagement with shareholders of the Group allows us to understand the concerns and priorities of current and 
prospective investors, in areas such as climate change; sustainability; executive pay; dividends; longer-term 
capital allocation policy; and strategy, which are taken into account in our decision making. 
This statement was approved by the Board on 30 June 2023 as part of the Company’s 2022 Annual Report and 
Accounts. 
