 
 
 
 
The Millbrook Power  
(Gas Fired Power Station) Order 
 
5.5 Statement of Engagement of Section 79(1) of the 
Environmental Protection Act 1990 
 
Planning Act 2008 
The Infrastructure Planning  
(Applications: Prescribed Forms and Procedure) Regulations 2009 
 
PINS Reference Number:  
 
EN010068 
Document Reference: 
 
 
5.5 
Regulation Number: 
 
 
5(2)(f) 
Author: 
 
 
 
 
Peter Brett Associates LLP  
 
Revision 
 
Date  
 
Description  
 
0 
 
 
October 2017 
Submission Version  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Statement of Engagement 
Millbrook Power Project  
 
 
 
 
Contents 
 
1 
Introduction ...................................................................................................... 1 
1.1 
Background ........................................................................................... 1 
1.2 
Project Description ................................................................................ 1 
2 
Description of Matters Considered by Section 79 of the EPA (1990) .......... 3 
2.1 
Introduction ........................................................................................... 3 
2.2 
EPA 1990 .............................................................................................. 3 
3 
Assessment of Matters set out in Section 79 (1) of the EPA (1990) ............ 5 
3.1 
Introduction ........................................................................................... 5 
3.2 
Section 79(1)(a) and Section 79(1)(e) – Condition of the Site ............... 5 
3.3 
Section 79(1)(d) – Air Quality ................................................................ 7 
3.4 
Section 79(1)(fb) – Artificial Lighting ..................................................... 9 
3.5 
Section 79(1)(g) and Section 79(1)(ga) - Noise and Vibration .............. 9 
4 
Conclusions .................................................................................................... 12 
4.1 
Summary ............................................................................................. 12 
4.2 
Statutory Defence ............................................................................... 12 
 
 
Statement of Engagement 
Millbrook Power Project  
 
 
1 
 
1 
Introduction  
1.1 
Background 
1.1.1 This Statement has been prepared by Peter Brett Associates LLP (PBA) on 
behalf of Millbrook Power Limited (MPL). It considers whether the Project 
would engage one or more of the statutory nuisances set out in Section 79(1) 
of the Environmental Protection Act 1990 (as amended) (the EPA 1990).  
1.1.2 The requirement for such a statement is set out in the Infrastructure Planning 
(Applications: Prescribed Forms and Procedure) Regulations 2009 (the APFP 
Regulations 2009) at regulation 5(2)(f), which states: “the application must be 
accompanied by…a statement whether the proposal engages one or more of 
the matters set out in Section 79(1) (statutory nuisances and inspections 
therefor) of the Environmental Protection Act 1990, and if so how the applicant 
proposes to mitigate or limit them”.  
1.1.3 This statement has also been prepared with reference to the National 
Infrastructure Planning Service document – ‘Defence to Proceedings in 
Respect of Nuisance (2013)’.  
1.2 
Project Description 
1.2.1 MPL is promoting a new gas fired peaking power generation plant and 
associated infrastructure (hereafter referred to as the Project) on land at and 
in the vicinity of the former clay extraction pit at Rookery South, near 
Stewartby, Bedfordshire. 
1.2.2 The Project would comprise: 
 
 a new Power Generation Plant in the form of an Open Cycle Gas Turbine 
(OCGT) peaking power generating station, fuelled by natural gas with a 
rated electrical output of up to 299 MW.  This is the output of the 
generating station as a whole, measured at the terminals of the generating 
equipment. The Power Generation Plant comprises: 
- generating equipment including one Gas Turbine Generator with one 
exhaust gas flue stack and Balance of Plant (together referred to as the 
‘Generating Equipment’), which are located within the ‘Generating 
Equipment Site’; 
- a new purpose built access road from Green Lane to the Generating 
Equipment Site (the ‘Access Road’ or the ‘Short Access Road’);  
- a temporary construction compound required during construction only 
(the ‘Laydown Area’); 
 
a new underground gas pipeline connection, approximately 1.8 km in 
length (the ‘Pipeline’) to bring natural gas to the Generating Equipment 
Statement of Engagement 
Millbrook Power Project  
 
 
2 
 
from the National Transmission System (the ‘Gas Connection’). The Gas 
Connection also incorporates an Above Ground Installation (AGI) at the 
point of connection to the National Transmission System; and 
 
a new electrical connection to export power from the Generating 
Equipment to the National Grid Electricity Transmission System (NETS) 
(the ‘Electrical Connection’), comprising an underground double circuit 
Tee-in. This would require one new tower (which will replace an existing 
tower and be located in the existing Grendon – Sundon transmission route 
corridor, thereby resulting in no net additional towers). This option would 
require two SECs, one located on each side of the existing transmission 
line, and both circuits would then be connected via underground cables 
approximately 500 m in length to a new substation (the ‘Substation’). 
 
The Generating Equipment, Access Road and Laydown Area are together 
known as the ‘Power Generation Plant’ and are located within the ‘Power 
Generation Plant Site’. The Power Generation Plant Site is approximately 
12.5 ha in area.  
1.2.3 The Power Generation Plant, Gas Connection, and Electrical Connection, 
together with all access requirements are referred to as the ‘Project’. The land 
upon which the Project would be developed, or which would be required in 
order to facilitate the development of the Project, is referred to as the ‘Project 
Site’. The Project Site is approximately 48 ha in area. The Project is described 
in more detail in Chapter 3 of the Environmental Statement (ES) (Document 
Reference: 6.1). 
1.2.4 The Project constitutes a Nationally Significant Infrastructure Project (NSIP) by 
virtue of section 14 (1)(a) and section 15 of the Planning Act 2008 (PA 2008) 
which includes within the definition of an NSIP as any onshore generating 
station in England or Wales of 50 MWe capacity or more. Under section 31 PA 
2008 a development consent order (DCO) is required to develop a NSIP. 
Under section 37 PA 2008 this can only be granted if an application is made to 
the Secretary of State (SoS) (the DCO Application).  
1.2.5 This Statement is part of a suite of documents which accompany the DCO 
Application and should be read in conjunction with those other documents to 
gain a fuller understanding of the Project.  
1.2.6 A glossary of defined terms is provided in Document Reference 1.4.  
Statement of Engagement 
Millbrook Power Project  
 
 
3 
 
2 
Description of Matters Considered by Section 79 
of the EPA (1990) 
2.1 
Introduction 
2.1.1 As stated in Section 1 above, regulation 5(2)(f) of the AFFP Regulations 
requires any DCO application to be accompanied by a statement indicating 
whether the proposal engages one or more of the statutory nuisances set out 
in Section 79 of the EPA 1990, and if so what measures are proposed to 
mitigate or limit them.  
2.2 
EPA 1990 
2.2.1 The following text, extracted from Section 79(1) of the EPA 1990 sets out the 
matters that constitute statutory nuisances in England and Wales.  
“(1)…the following matters constitute “statutory nuisances” for the purposes of 
this Part, that is to say—  
 
(a) any premises in such a state as to be prejudicial to health or a nuisance;  
(b) smoke emitted from premises so as to be prejudicial to health or a 
nuisance;  
(c) fumes or gases emitted from premises so as to be prejudicial to health or a 
nuisance;  
(d) any dust, steam, smell or other effluvia arising on industrial, trade or 
business premises and being prejudicial to health or a nuisance;  
(e) any accumulation or deposit which is prejudicial to health or a nuisance;  
(f) any animal kept in such a place or manner as to be prejudicial to health or a 
nuisance;  
(fa) any insects emanating from relevant industrial, trade or business premises 
and being prejudicial to health or a nuisance;  
(fb) artificial light emitted from premises so as to be prejudicial to health or a 
nuisance;  
(g) noise emitted from premises so as to be prejudicial to health or a nuisance;  
(ga) noise that is prejudicial to health or a nuisance and is emitted from or 
caused by a vehicle, machinery or equipment in a street;  
(h) any other matter declared by any enactment to be a statutory nuisance;”  
 
2.2.2 For the purposes of Section 79(1) of the EPA 1990, “noise” includes vibration.  
2.2.3 The nature of the Project is such that the statutory nuisances described by the 
sub-sections set out below will not be engaged and are therefore not 
discussed further in this Statement: 
 
79(1)(b) – as no smoke will be emitted from the Project; 
 
79(1)(c) – as section 79(1)(c) applies only to private dwellings; 
 
79(1)(f) – as no animals will be kept at the Project Site; and  
Statement of Engagement 
Millbrook Power Project  
 
 
4 
 
 
79(1)(fa) – as the Project will not give rise to processes which could cause 
infestation by insects.  
2.2.4 Sub-sections 79(1)(a) and 79(1)(e), relating to general conditions at the 
Project Site, and 79(1)(d) relating to air emissions and effluvia, 79(1)(fb), 
relating to lighting, and 79(1)(g) and 79(1)(ga), relating to noise and vibration, 
are potentially relevant to the Project and therefore are discussed further in 
Section 3 of this Statement.  
Statement of Engagement 
Millbrook Power Project  
 
 
5 
 
3 
Assessment of Matters set out in Section 79 (1) 
of the EPA (1990) 
3.1 
Introduction 
3.1.1 The following section sets out potential impacts of the Project which may 
constitute a source of statutory nuisance, as defined by Section 79 (1) of the 
EPA 1990. To the extent that any potential impacts are considered to 
potentially engage any of the issues set out in Section 79(1) of the EPA 1990, 
proposed mitigation measures to limit such impacts are also described. This 
section has been prepared with reference to the ES (Document Reference: 
6.1) and outline Construction Environmental Management Plan (CEMP) 
(Document Reference 6.2, Appendix 3.2) which have been prepared to 
accompany the DCO Application.  
3.2 
Section 79(1)(a) and Section 79(1)(e) – Condition of the Site 
Construction and decommissioning  
3.2.1 Construction of the Project will comprise site preparation works (e.g. 
excavation of trenches for the gas pipeline and the electrical cable, as well as 
excavation for foundations for the Generating Equipment. Briefly, this could 
result in: 
 
Disturbance of existing contamination and creation of pollution pathways; 
and  
 
Creation of pollution incidents from, for example, spillages. 
3.2.2 During construction, the condition of the Project Site will be managed by 
implementation of a CEMP, an outline of which can be found in Document 
Reference 6.2, Appendix 3.2. Prior to decommissioning a decommissioning 
plan will be established. The CEMP and decommissioning plan will cover 
matters such as the management of construction materials and wastes, 
protection of surface water, groundwater, land quality and human health, by 
establishing a series of best practice working methods and embedded 
mitigation measures. Compliance with the CEMP and decommissioning plan 
is secured by way of a requirement to the DCO (Requirements 10 and 18 – 
Document Reference 3.1).   
3.2.3 These mitigation measures include:  
 
Compliance with the mitigation measures set out in the following 
documents: 
- Protection of Workers and the general public during the development of 
contaminated land (HSE 1991); and 
- A guide to safe working on contaminated sites R132 (CIRIA 1996). 
Statement of Engagement 
Millbrook Power Project  
 
 
6 
 
 
Construction workers will wear appropriate personal protective equipment 
(PPE) for the nature of works being undertaken.  
 
Any soils excavated which are considered to be potentially contaminated 
(e.g. visual or olfactory evidence) will be reported to site management and 
left alone until their appropriate treatment. Suitable training will be 
provided to site personnel to ensure the correct identification of potentially 
contaminated soils by olfactory means; and 
 
Measures should be taken to avoid/minimise the potential for fuel and 
chemical spills. A spill response procedure will also apply on-site.  
3.2.4 Further ground investigations will be undertaken prior to construction of the 
Project which will further define the nature of ground conditions at the Project 
Site.  In particular, a Phase 2 site investigation will be carried out to confirm 
the findings of the Phase 1 site investigation in terms of ground conditions. 
This will be secured as a requirement to the DCO (Requirement 8 – Document 
Reference 3.1). A detailed foundation design assessment will also be carried 
out taking into account the two groundwater bodies beneath the Project Site.  
However, based on evidence to date (together with the embedded mitigation 
e.g. designing the Project to take into account the findings of further ground 
investigations), there are not anticipated to be any significant issues with 
contamination at the Project Site.  
3.2.5 It is therefore considered that with the embedded mitigation measures 
summarised above, construction and decommissioning activities of the Project 
would not give rise to impacts which would be likely to constitute a statutory 
nuisance under section79(1)(a) or (e).  
Operation  
3.2.6 During operation of the Project, there is the potential for incidences, e.g. 
spillages of fuels, that could impact the condition of the Power Generation 
Plant Site.  
3.2.7 During operation of the Project, an Operational Environmental Management 
Plan (OEMP) will be put in place by the operator to ensure that the site 
remains in a good condition. The OEMP will be certified to OHSAS 18001, 
ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 or other appropriate international standards. The 
OEMP will encompass best practice methods for all operational procedures at 
the Project Site, including, but not limited to; spill reporting procedures and 
clean up methods; site speed limits; correct storage of fuel; and vehicle re-
fuelling procedures.   
3.2.8 It is therefore considered that with embedded mitigation measures (as 
summarised in paragraph 3.2.7 above) operation of the Project would not give 
rise to impacts which would be likely to constitute a statutory nuisance under 
section 79(1)(a) or (e) of the EPA 1990.  
Statement of Engagement 
Millbrook Power Project  
 
 
7 
 
3.3 
Section 79(1)(d) – Air Quality 
Construction and decommissioning  
3.3.1 There is the potential for emissions of dust arising from construction and 
decommissioning activities carried out at the Project Site. A qualitative 
assessment of the impact of dust on the surrounding environment has been 
undertaken as part of the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) and is 
reported in Section 6 of the ES (Document Reference 6.1).  
3.3.2 Following the Institute of Air Quality Management (IAQM) 2014 guidance on 
dust assessment, the screening distances to be used to assess the impacts of 
dust emissions for human and ecological receptors are: 
 
Human – within 350 m of the boundary of the site, or 50 m of the routes 
used by construction vehicles on the public highway, within 500 m of the 
site entrance; and 
 
Ecological – 50 m of the boundary of the site or 50 m of the routes used by 
construction vehicles on the public highway, within 500 m of the site 
entrance. 
Outside of these areas, it is reasonable to conclude that construction and 
decommissioning impacts of the Project will be negligible.   
3.3.3 Nevertheless, there are residential and business premises within these 
distances from the Project and therefore there is the potential for statutory 
nuisance under Section 79(1)(d) of the EPA to occur.  
3.3.4 The application of embedded mitigation measures will ensure that the impacts 
of dust during the construction and decommissioning of the Project are slight 
adverse at worst and therefore will not give rise to statutory nuisance pursuant 
to Section 79(1)(d) of the EPA 1990.  
3.3.5 These embedded mitigation measures are as follows:  
Site Management 
 
 
Records of dust and air quality complaints to be kept, including likely 
causes and mitigation measures to reduce impacts if appropriate; 
 
On-site and off-site visual inspections to be undertaken and recorded; and 
 
Keep site perimeter, fences etc clean. 
Site Planning 
 
Consideration of weather conditions and dust generating potential of 
material to be excavated prior to commencement of works; 
 
Plan site layout to maximise distance from plant/stockpiles etc to sensitive 
receptors; and 
 
Dusty materials should be removed from Project Site as soon as possible. 
Statement of Engagement 
Millbrook Power Project  
 
 
8 
 
Construction Traffic 
 
Loads entering and leaving the Project Site with dust generating potential 
should be covered and wheel washing facilities made available if 
appropriate; 
 
No idling of vehicles; 
 
Vehicles to comply with site speed limits (for example, typically 15mph on 
hard surfaces, 10mph on unconsolidated surfaces); 
 
Water assisted sweeping of local roads to be undertaken in the event that 
material is tracked out of the Project Site; and 
 
Install hard surfacing as soon as practicable on the Project Site and 
ensure that they are maintained in good condition.  
Site Activities 
 
Exposed soils should be revegetated as soon as practicable.  Near 
residential 
properties 
or 
sensitive 
ecosystems 
(<50m), 
use 
hessian/mulches etc where not possible to revegetate or cover with 
topsoil; 
 
Minimise 
dust 
generating 
activities, 
particularly 
near 
residential 
receptors/sensitive ecosystems during prolonged dry, dusty weather 
unless damping / other suppressants are used; 
 
Ensure an adequate water supply to the Project Site and use water as 
dust suppressant where applicable; 
 
Ensure any site machinery is well maintained and in full working order; 
and 
 
Ensure equipment available for cleaning spills etc available at all times. 
3.3.6 These mitigation measures will be set out in the CEMP and decommissioning 
plan and secured by way of a requirement to the DCO (Requirements 10 and 
18 – Document Reference 3.1).  It is therefore considered that with embedded 
mitigation measures (as summarised at paragraph 3.3.5 above) construction 
and decommissioning activities of the Project would not give rise to impacts 
which would be likely to constitute a statutory nuisance under section79(1)(d) 
of the EPA 1990.  
Operation  
3.3.7 During operation, the Power Generation Plant will release NOx during the 
combustion of natural gas. No other pollutants of concern will be released in 
quantities which have the potential for causing statutory nuisance. 
Atmospheric dispersion modelling has been undertaken as part of the EIA and 
the results are presented in Section 6 of the ES (Document Reference 6.1). 
The results of the dispersion modelling conclude that NOx concentrations will 
be well below the relevant national air quality objectives at all receptors within 
the study area (10 km radius from the location of the stack). Therefore, the 
significance of effect of air quality emissions will be negligible. No mitigation is 
Statement of Engagement 
Millbrook Power Project  
 
 
9 
 
therefore proposed, other than the use of Best Available Techniques (BAT) for 
control of emissions which will be designed into the Power Generation Plant 
and required pursuant to the Environmental Permit. 
3.3.8 The Electrical Connection will not release any emissions to air during 
operation.    
3.3.9 The Gas Connection will not release any emissions to air during normal 
operation. If required, in emergency situations, gas may be vented from either 
the AGI or Power Generation Plant Site if there is an abnormal build up of 
pressure. However, the gas venting would be controlled and would release to 
atmosphere, not in an enclosed space.  Therefore, the venting of gas would 
not give rise to impacts which would be likely to constitute a statutory 
nuisance. 
3.3.10 It is therefore considered that with embedded mitigation measures operation of 
the Project would not give rise to impacts which would be likely to constitute a 
statutory nuisance under section79(1)(d) of the EPA 1990.  
3.4 
Section 79(1)(fb) – Artificial Lighting 
3.4.1 The Project Site will require artificial lighting during construction and 
decommissioning and the Power Generation Plant, Electrical Connection 
Compound and AGI will require artificial lighting during operation to provide a 
safe working site during hours of darkness.  An outline lighting strategy has 
been proposed to support the DCO Application (Document Reference 6.2, 
Appendix 11.3). The LVIA determined that the impact of lighting during the 
construction, operation and decommissioning stages of the Project will be 
negligible. Embedded mitigation measures will include the use of controlled 
directional lighting in order to limit light spillage and the use of motion sensitive 
lights in order to avoid unnecessary lighting. Compliance with the lighting 
strategy is secured by way of a requirement to the DCO (Document Reference 
3.1 - Requirement 14).   
3.4.2 It is therefore considered that with the application of embedded mitigation 
measures construction and decommissioning activities and the operation of 
the Project would not give rise to impacts which would be likely to constitute a 
statutory nuisance under section79(1)(fb) of the EPA 1990.  
3.5 
Section 79(1)(g) and Section 79(1)(ga) - Noise and Vibration 
Construction and decommissioning 
3.5.1 A Construction noise assessment has been undertaken using guidance set out 
in BS 5228 'Noise and vibration control on construction and open sites' and a 
construction vibration assessment has been prepared using BS 7385 (1993) 
‘Evaluation and Measurement for Vibration in Buildings’. Both assessments 
are set out in detail in Chapter 7 of the ES (Document Reference 6.1).  
Statement of Engagement 
Millbrook Power Project  
 
 
10 
 
3.5.2 The assessments were undertaken to determine the impacts of construction 
noise and vibration from the Project Site on a series of nearest sensitive 
receptors (NSRs). These NSRs were agreed with Central Bedfordshire 
Council (CBC) as being the closest representative properties to the Project 
Site and were used as locations to undertake baseline noise surveys.  
3.5.3 The assessments have been based upon the construction plant (the items of 
such construction plant being as per the assumptions made in the ES) being 
used simultaneously.  It is noted that in reality this scenario is extremely 
unlikely to occur and hence predicted noise and vibration levels are 
considered worst case. 
3.5.4 The predicted construction noise level does not exceed the daytime limit of 
65 dB(A) at any of the receptors. Therefore, based on this conservative, worst 
case assessment, the overall impact of construction noise during typical 
working hours is predicted to be slight or neutral (depending on the location of 
the NSR) which is not significant. 
3.5.5 Furthermore, with the distances involved between the Project Site and NSR’s 
(minimum distance of 90m from construction of the Electrical Connection) it is 
anticipated that the level of induced vibration will be imperceptible at the 
nearest sensitive receptor.  
3.5.6 The worst case construction assessment summarised above can also be used 
as a proxy for the impacts of noise/vibration at the decommissioning stage of 
the Project.  
3.5.7 It is therefore considered that with embedded mitigation measures, for 
example adherence to a CEMP which will include measures to limit 
construction noise such as: 
 
Construction works shall not take place outside the hours of 07:00-19:00 
Monday to Friday and 07:00 – 13:00 on a Saturday, with no working on 
Sundays or Bank Holidays unless otherwise agreed with BBC/ CBC; 
 
Construction plant will be operated and maintained appropriately, having 
regard to the manufacturer’s written recommendations or using other 
appropriate operation and maintenance programmes which reduce noise 
and vibration emissions; and   
 
The positioning of construction plant and activities to minimise noise at 
sensitive receptors such as residential properties;  
3.5.8 Construction and decommissioning activities of the Project would not give rise 
to impacts which would be likely to constitute a statutory nuisance under 
section 79(1)(g) or section 79(1)(ga) of the EPA 1990. Compliance with the 
CEMP, construction hours and decommissioning plan is secured by way of a 
requirement to the DCO (Document Reference 3.1 - Requirements 10, 13 and 
18).   
Statement of Engagement 
Millbrook Power Project  
 
 
11 
 
3.5.9 Any noise generated by construction traffic movements has been assessed as 
part of detailed noise modelling, presented in Chapter 7 of the ES, Document 
Reference 6.1, has shown that effects will be neutral in all cases.  
Operation 
3.5.10 Noise modelling has been undertaken to estimate the contribution to noise 
levels at each NSR location, and has been created using representative sound 
power levels for key items of the Generating Equipment. The model estimates 
the contribution to noise levels at each NSR location. 
3.5.11 An operational noise assessment has been undertaken using guidance set out 
in BS 4142 (2014) – ‘Method for rating industrial noise affecting mixed 
residential and industrial areas’   
3.5.12 The modelling results show that the external noise level at the closest NSR is 
38dB. This is below the daytime and night time background noise levels. As 
such, the impact of operational noise from the Project on external noise levels 
at NSRs is not considered give rise to impacts which would be likely to 
constitute a statutory nuisance under section79(1)(g) or section 79(1)(ga) of 
the EPA 1990.  
 
Statement of Engagement 
Millbrook Power Project  
 
 
12 
 
4 
Conclusions 
4.1 
Summary 
4.1.1 This Statement has been prepared to fulfil regulation 5(2)(f) of the AFFP 
Regulations, which require any DCO application to be accompanied by a 
statement considering whether the proposal would engage one or more of the 
statutory nuisances set out in Section 79(1) of the EPA 1990. 
4.1.2 Detailed assessments have been undertaken to assess: the condition of the 
site, potential air quality impacts, noise levels, and artificial lighting generated 
by the Project during construction, operation and decommissioning.  
4.1.3 In all cases, the application of embedded mitigation measures will prevent 
impacts which are considered to have the potential to result in statutory 
nuisance under section 79(1) of the EPA 1990.  
4.1.4 Construction of the Project will be managed by a CEMP (secured by 
Requirement 10 of the DCO) and operation of the Project will be managed by 
both an Environmental Permit and an OEMP.  
4.2 
Statutory Defence 
4.2.1 Whilst the conclusions of this Statement indicate that no statutory nuisance is 
likely to occur, the Applicant has included within the draft DCO for the Project 
(Document Reference 3.1) a provision taken from the standard model 
provisions for DCOs which would provide a defence against cases of 
nuisance, such that this could be relied upon where, for example, the nuisance 
cannot reasonably be avoided.  
