 
 
 
Methodology for measuring net carbon 
dioxide removal through bioenergy 
with carbon capture and storage 
(BECCS) 
 
Executive Summary 
V0.9 
October 2023 
Prepared by: EcoEngineers 
 
 
 
1  
1. Methodology context 
Bio-energy carbon capture and storage (BECCS) is a carbon dioxide removal (CDR) approach that 
captures carbon dioxide (CO2) from sustainably sourced biomass and permanently stores it in geological 
storage. BECCS and other CDR approaches will be an essential part of the global response to climate 
change, according to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). 
Today there are no comprehensive methodologies available to calculate the impact of BECCS projects 
and generate carbon credits. Therefore, Drax and Stockholm Exergi set out to collaboratively develop a 
high-integrity approach for quantifying the net CDR contribution of a BECCS project, in a rigorous 
methodology prepared by EcoEngineers.  
The methodology is built on the principle of conservativeness, preferring to undercount the net volume 
of CO2 removed. This can be observed in figure 1 below. While the “project” (i.e., the direct intervention 
which generates carbon credits), refers to the installation and operation of CCS, the methodology 
conservatively takes into account the full operational supply chain emissions which occur in the 
production of renewable electricity and / or green heat. Additionally, it requires calculation and 
subtraction from removals of any indirect effects (known as leakage) which the project could cause (e.g., 
increase in demand for CO2 transportation and storage leading to new infrastructure). Emissions which 
one can be certain did not occur due to the project (e.g., emissions from constructing long-standing 
infrastructure) are excluded from the calculation of net CO2 removals (known as baseline emissions) 
 
 
Figure 1: emissions that fall within project scope 
 
 
2  
2. Key criteria to BECCS projects 
This methodology currently applies to power and/or heat BECCS projects that meet strict criteria. To be 
eligible to issue CDR credits under this methodology, a project must: 
• 
be ‘additional’ – meaning they would not happen without revenues from carbon credits. 
• 
use only sustainable biomass feedstock.  
• 
only store CO2 where the risk of reversal is scientifically determined to be negligible. 
• 
not use CO2 for enhanced hydrocarbon recovery (EHR). 
• 
put in place strong safeguards for social and environmental impact. 
 
Additional 
BECCS projects are developed for the purpose of delivering carbon removals. Removals are additional if 
they would not have taken place absent the incentive created by CDR credit revenues. All projects must 
demonstrate regulatory additionality (i.e., no legal requirement to capture CO2) and prior consideration 
(e.g., that carbon market revenues were considered before the project was started). Where a project 
either receives no support or government support envisages VCM participation, the project is additional. 
In all other cases, an auditor statement is required, showing that VCM revenues were a necessary factor 
in the decision to initiate the project. 
Sustainable biomass 
Forest biomass shall only be sourced from areas with stable or increasing forest carbon stock. Biomass 
shall not be sourced from lands with high biodiversity value, namely primary forest, old growth forest, 
highly biodiverse forest, or forests recently established on highly biodiverse grassland. Furthermore, 
stringent criteria apply to ensure the sustainable management of forests and maintenance of 
biodiversity, which are either in line with or exceeding the rules set out by the EU Renewable Energy 
Directive. Biomass shall not be sourced from material suitable for use in long-lived wood products such 
as sawtimber or veneer. Initially the methodology only applies to forest biomass, however we expect that 
suitable criteria will be developed to include additional sustainable biomass sources over time for 
example from agricultural sources and waste.  
Storage and permanence 
The methodology only allows for CO2 storage where the risk of reversal is scientifically determined to be 
negligible, and there are high regulatory enforcement levels in place. IPCC indicates that for such well-
designed projects, CO2 storage is likely to be >99% over the first 1000 years. Initially the methodology 
will apply in The European Economic Area, the UK, and the USA. In these jurisdictions, there are strong 
requirements for site selection, injection, and monitoring. In the event of any emissions released from 
the storage site, the storage operator will be required to take mitigation measures according to local 
regulations (for example in the EEA storage operators must surrender ETS emissions allowances). 
Permanence is further strengthened by the transfer of responsibilities to government following site 
closure.  
 
 
3  
 
 
No enhanced hydrocarbon recovery  
To ensure the BECCS projects under this methodology are not playing a role in incentivizing extraction 
of fossil fuels, captured CO2 shall not be used for enhanced hydrocarbon recovery. In situations with 
shared pipeline infrastructure, the developer should provide mass balance evidence that the amount of 
CO2 the developer is entitled to was injected in an applicable non-EHR storage site. 
Safeguards for social and environmental impact 
As a minimum, projects must have all relevant environmental and business permits in the jurisdictions of 
sourcing, capture and storage operations. They must also demonstrate to have conducted robust 
stakeholder consultations and have put grievance mechanisms in place. Furthermore, project developers 
must review an extensive list of sustainable safeguards, building on the safeguards outlined by the 
Integrity Council for Voluntary Carbon Markets and either i) provide a confirmation that they have not 
identified any risk of breaching any of these, or ii) provide a mitigation plan for any identified risks. 
3. Conservatively calculating net emissions removed 
The methodology provides a 
conservative 
means 
of 
quantifying impact as shown 
in figure 2. The ‘net emissions 
removal’ figure corresponds 
to the volume of carbon 
credits that a developer can 
issue. 
This 
number 
is 
determined by taking the 
amount of CO2 that has been 
permanently removed and 
stored by the BECCS project, 
and subtracting the direct 
CCS 
project 
emissions, 
operational 
supply 
chain 
emissions, 
and 
indirect 
emissions from leakage. 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2: CDR calculation approach 
 
 
4  
4. Robust reporting and independent verification 
The methodology requires BECCS projects to develop a comprehensive monitoring framework that 
enables third party validation and verification bodies (VVB) to transparently assess project outcomes. 
Before issuing credits, a project must be successfully validated by an accredited VVB. To issue credits, a 
project must calculate net removals that have already taken place, and have this calculation 
independently verified by a third party VVB. If successful, the project developer will be issued carbon 
credits through a carbon market registry. The frequency of credit issuance, and hence the need for 
independent verification reports, is at the discretion of the project developer. Streamlined verification 
events may take place throughout the year, with a full verification required at least once per year to assess 
the project’s continued adherence to all requirements.  
 
Figure 3: Illustrative timeline for project validation and verification 
 
 
Going forward, the authors hope for this methodology to keep evolving with industry developments and 
scientific advances. We will invite further BECCS developers to join us in refining the methodology, with 
the aim to harmonize approaches, build buyer trust, and help the BECCS industry to scale. Finally, we 
hope to see the contents of the methodology adopted by the carbon market standards bodies, 
regulators, and policy makers, to be the ultimate owners of this methodology.  
