 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
––– 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SCOPING OPINION  
Proposed Progress Power 
Station 
 
 
 
 
June 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scoping Opinion for Progress Power Station  
 
 
 
 
Progress Power Station_Scoping Opinion_June 2013 
 
 
 
CONTENTS 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
1.0 
INTRODUCTION.................................................................... 1 
2.0 
THE PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT ............................................ 4 
3.0 
EIA APPROACH AND TOPIC AREAS ..................................... 13 
4.0 
OTHER INFORMATION ........................................................ 23 
APPENDIX 1 – LIST OF CONSULTEES 
APPENDIX 2 – RESPONDENTS TO CONSULTATION AND  COPIES OF 
REPLIES 
APPENDIX 3 – PRESENTATION OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL 
STATEMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scoping Opinion for Progress Power Station 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
This is the Scoping Opinion (the Opinion) provided by the Secretary of 
State in respect of the content of the Environmental Statement for 
Progress Power Station on land at Eye Airfield Industrial Estate, Eye, Mid 
Suffolk.   
This report sets out the Secretary of State’s opinion on the basis of the 
information provided in Progress Power Limited’s report entitled ‘Progress 
Power Project, Environmental Impact Assessment Scoping Report’ (May 
2013). The Opinion can only reflect the proposals as currently described 
by the Applicant.  
The Secretary of State has consulted on the Scoping Report and the 
responses received have been taken into account in adopting this Opinion. 
The Secretary of State is satisfied that the topic areas identified in the 
Scoping Report encompass those matters identified in Schedule 4, Part 1, 
paragraph 19 of the Infrastructure Planning (Environmental Impact 
Assessment) Regulations 2009 (as amended). 
The Secretary of State draws attention both to the general points and 
those made in respect of each of the specialist topic areas in this Opinion. 
The main potential issues identified are the following:  
• 
Emissions to air  
• 
Noise and vibration 
• 
Ecology 
• 
Water resources 
• 
Landscape and visual 
• 
Transport and traffic 
Matters are not scoped out unless specifically addressed and justified by 
the Applicant, and confirmed as being scoped out by the Secretary of 
State. 
The Secretary of State notes the potential need to carry out an 
assessment under the Habitats Regulations1. 
                                       
1 The Conservation of Habitats and Species Regulations 2010 (as amended) 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 1 
1.0 INTRODUCTION 
Background 
1.1 
On 16 May 2013, the Secretary of State (SoS) received a scoping 
report submitted by Progress Power Limited (the Applicant) under 
Regulation 8 of the Infrastructure Planning (Environmental Impact 
Assessment) Regulations 2009 (SI 2263) (as amended) (the EIA 
Regulations) in order to request a scoping opinion for the proposed 
Progress Power Station. This Scoping Opinion is made in response 
to this request and should be read in conjunction with the 
Applicant’s Scoping Report. 
1.2 
In a letter dated 15 May 2013 addressed to the SoS and 
accompanying the Scoping Report, the Applicant formally notified 
the SoS under Regulation 6(1)(b) of the EIA Regulations that it 
proposes to provide an 
ES in respect of the proposed 
development. Therefore, in accordance with Regulation 4(2)(a) of 
the EIA Regulations, the proposed development is determined to 
be EIA development. The EIA Regulations enable an applicant, 
before making an application for an order granting development 
consent, to ask the SoS to state in writing their formal opinion (a 
‘scoping opinion’) on the information to be provided in the 
environmental statement (ES).   
1.3 
The proposed development concerns the construction of an 
onshore electricity generating station. It falls within the description 
of a Schedule 1 development under the EIA Regulations as being 
an infrastructure project. An EIA is mandatory for a Schedule 1 
development.  
1.4 
Before adopting a scoping opinion the SoS must take into account: 
(a) the specific characteristics of the particular development; 
(b) the specific characteristics of the development of the type 
concerned; and 
(c) environmental 
features 
likely 
to 
be 
affected 
by 
the 
development’. 
(EIA Regulation 8 (9)) 
1.5 
This Opinion sets out what information the SoS considers should 
be included in the ES for the proposed development. The Opinion 
has taken account of:  
i 
the EIA Regulations  
ii 
the nature and scale of the proposed development  
iii 
the nature of the receiving environment, and 
 
 
 
Page 2 
iv 
current best practice in the preparation of environmental 
statements.  
1.6 
The SoS has also taken account of the responses received from 
the statutory consultees (see Appendix 2 of this Opinion). The 
matters addressed by the Applicant have been carefully considered 
and use has been made of professional judgement and experience 
in order to adopt this Opinion. It should be noted that when it 
comes to consider the ES, the SoS will take account of relevant 
legislation and guidelines (as appropriate). The SoS will not be 
precluded from requiring additional information if it is considered 
necessary in connection with the ES submitted with that 
application when considering the application for a development 
consent order (DCO).  
1.7 
This Opinion should not be construed as implying that the SoS 
agrees with the information or comments provided by the 
Applicant in their request for an opinion from the SoS. In 
particular, comments from the SoS in this Opinion are without 
prejudice to any decision taken by the SoS (on submission of the 
application) that any development identified by the Applicant is 
necessarily to be treated as part of a nationally significant 
infrastructure project (NSIP), or associated development, or 
development that does not require development consent. 
1.8 
Regulation 8(3) of the EIA Regulations states that a request for a 
scoping opinion must include:  
(a) ‘a plan sufficient to identify the land; 
(b) a brief description of the nature and purpose of the 
development and of its possible effects on the environment; 
and 
(c) such other information or representations as the person 
making the request may wish to provide or make’. 
(EIA Regulation 8 (3)) 
1.9 
The SoS considers that this has been provided in the Applicant’s 
Scoping Report. 
The Secretary of State’s Consultation 
1.10 
The SoS has a duty under Regulation 8(6) of the EIA Regulations 
to consult widely before adopting a scoping opinion. A full list of 
the consultation bodies is provided at Appendix 1. The list has 
been compiled by the SoS under their duty to notify the consultees 
in accordance with Regulation 9(1)(a). The Applicant should note 
that whilst the SoS list can inform their consultation, it should not 
be relied upon for that purpose.   
 
 
 
Page 3 
1.11 
The list of respondents who replied within the statutory timeframe 
and whose comments have been taken into account in the 
preparation of this Opinion is provided at Appendix 2 along with 
copies of their comments, to which the Applicant should refer in 
undertaking the EIA. 
1.12 
The 
ES 
submitted 
by 
the 
Applicant 
should 
demonstrate 
consideration of the points raised by the consultation bodies. It is 
recommended that a table is provided in the ES summarising the 
scoping responses from the consultation bodies and how they are, 
or are not, addressed in the ES. 
1.13 
Any consultation responses received after the statutory deadline 
for receipt of comments will not be taken into account within this 
Opinion. Late responses will be forwarded to the Applicant and will 
be made available on the Planning Inspectorate’s website. The 
Applicant should also give due consideration to those comments in 
carrying out the EIA. 
Structure of the Document 
1.14 
This Scoping Opinion is structured as follows: 
Section 1 
Introduction 
Section 2 
The proposed development 
Section 3 
EIA approach and topic areas 
Section 4 
Other information. 
The Scoping Opinion is accompanied by the following Appendices: 
Appendix 1 List of consultees 
Appendix 2 Respondents to consultation and copies of replies 
Appendix 3 Presentation of the environmental statement. 
 
 
 
Page 4 
2.0 THE PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT 
Introduction 
2.1 
The following is a summary of the information on the proposed 
development and its site and surroundings prepared by the 
Applicant and included in the Scoping Report. The information has 
not been verified and it has been assumed that the information 
provided reflects the existing knowledge of the proposed 
development and the potential receptors/resources. 
The Applicant’s Information 
Overview of the Proposed Development 
2.2 
The proposed Progress Power Station comprises the construction 
of a new gas fired thermal generating station with an electrical 
output of up to 299 MWe and a thermal output in the region of 
400-950 MW.  
2.3 
Section 1.2 of the Scoping Report has identified the following 
principal components of the proposed development:   
• 
a gas fired power station capable of providing up to 299 
MWe; 
• 
a new electrical connection to export power from the new 
generation plant to the National Grid; and 
• 
a new gas pipeline connection to bring natural gas to the 
power generation plant from the National Gas Transmission 
System (NTS). 
 
Description of the site and surroundings  
The Application Site 
2.4 
The proposed power generation plant would be situated on 
approximately 10 ha of land within the former World War Two Eye 
Airfield, located approximately 1.3km west of Langton Green and  
approximately 1.5km north-east of Yaxley, Mid Suffolk. The power 
plant generation site is located within a larger triangular area 
directly to the east of the former ‘main runway’. 
2.5 
The site is entirely within the administrative area of Mid Suffolk 
District Council and is designated as a Strategic Site for 
development. 
2.6 
Land use on the site consists of greenfield agricultural use with a 
number of small watercourses, ponds, hedgerows and fences and 
 
 
 
Page 5 
land characterised by the remnants of the airfield. A belt of trees 
borders the site to the east.  
2.7 
The gas connection would run from the proposed power generation 
plant into Feeder 5 on the gas NTS which runs to the south and 
east of the site, through the Eye Airfield and across agricultural 
fields. Potential gas connection route corridor options are shown at 
Figure 3 of the Scoping Report. 
2.8 
The electricity connection would connect the proposed power 
generation plant to a new substation located either within the site 
or adjacent to the 400kV infrastructure located approximately 
1.5km west of the site, which runs between the Bramford and 
Norwich Main substations. 
2.9 
Sections 5.5.5 and 5.5.6 of the Scoping Report identify bats; great 
crested newt; nesting birds and wintering birds; badger and BAP 
species such as brown hare as likely to be present on the sites: 
2.10 
There are a number of local roads and public rights of way both 
within the study area and outside of it. 
2.11 
Eye Airfield is a heritage site. 
The Surrounding Area 
2.12 
To the north of the proposed power generation site is an existing 
thermal generating power station and situated to the south west 
are two existing wind turbines. Two further wind turbines are to be 
built to the south and south-east of the site. Immediately to the 
east is a belt of trees which separate the site from an existing gas 
compressor facility. To the west of the site is an existing industrial 
area. 
2.13 
Section 5.5.7 of the ES refers to the presence of 29 statutory 
designated sites within a 10km search radius, two of which are of 
international importance and seven of national importance. The 
remainder of the sites are ancient woodland. Two non-statutory 
designated sites are located within 2km of the site. 
2.14 
A number of ponds and watercourses are to be found in the wider 
area with the closest being location around 525m west of the 
proposed power generation plant site boundary.  
2.15 
The Broads Environmentally Sensitive Area (ESA) is located 
approximately 2.7km to the north of the site and 1.1km to the 
east of the site. 
2.16 
Burgate 
ancient 
and 
semi-natural 
woodland 
is 
located 
approximately 5.5km west of the site. 
 
 
 
Page 6 
2.17 
The Pennings Local Nature Reserve (LNR) is located approximately 
2.3km to the south east of the site. 
2.18 
Section 5.11.5 of the Scoping Report states that several listed 
buildings and conservation areas are in the vicinity of the Airfield 
and these include Eye and Thrandeston Conservation Areas. Within 
Eye, there are several Grade I listed buildings. 
2.19 
The Scoping Opinion identifies the following Scheduled Ancient 
Monuments in proximity to the site: 
• 
St Mary’s Church – 1.3km to the north; 
• 
Moated site immediately south east of St Mary’s Church; 
• 
Eye Castle – 2km from the centre of the site; 
• 
Remains of Eye Priory at Abbey Farm – 2km to the south-
east; 
• 
Scole Roman Settlement – 4km to the north-east;  
• 
Barn at Rook Hall – 2.5km to the south; and 
• 
Moated site at Gate Farm – 4km to the south-east.  
Description of the Proposed Development  
2.20 
The proposed power generation plant dimensions will be in the 
order of 2.5ha and would be designed to provide a total output of 
up to 299 MWe (gross capacity) at rated site conditions. The 
choice of plant and technology are not yet confirmed but will 
comprise either one or a combination of the following: 
• 
a Combined Cycle Gas Turbine (CCGT) plant; 
• 
a Simple Cycle Gas Turbine (SCGT) plant; or  
• 
a Reciprocating Gas Ignition Engine (RGE) plant. 
2.21 
Section 3.3.5 onwards of the Scoping Report provides details of 
components required for a CCGT plant and describes the operation 
of such infrastructure; Section 3.3.15 onwards provides the 
components required and operational information for a SCGT plant 
and Section 3.3.22 provides details of the components and 
operational information of a RGE plant. Indicative dimensions of 
the main plant components are provided in Table 3.1 of the 
Scoping Report. 
2.22 
An underground gas connection of between 0.1km and 1.6km in 
length, depending on which connection corridor is chosen, would 
be required to connect the proposed power generation plant to 
Feeder 5 of the gas NTS. Inserts 5-8 of the Scoping Report show 
the proposed connection routes for each of the potential Gas 
Connection Corridors which are also shown together on Figure 3. 
 
 
 
Page 7 
2.23 
Connection to the NTS would require the installation of a Minimum 
Offtake Connection (MOC) facility of around 30m x 30m and a 
Pipeline Inspection Gauge Trap facility (PTF) of around 30m x 
23m. The pipeline would be buried to a depth of cover in 
accordance with industry standards which is no less than 1.2m in 
agricultural land; no less than 2m under road crossings; and no 
less than 1.7m under water crossings.  
2.24 
An electrical connection is proposed to connect the power 
generation plant to a new substation either on site or adjacent to 
the 400kV infrastructure located approximately 1.5km west of the 
site which runs between Bramford and Norwich Main substations. 
The Scoping Report expresses uncertainty over whether the 
connection will comprise overhead line or underground cable. 
2.25 
If a new substation is constructed on site, power will be exported 
to the National Grid via a 400kv line to a SEC at the 400kv 
infrastructure. 
2.26 
If a new substation is constructed off site, it would be constructed 
by National Grid Company (NGC) while the connection between 
this and the proposed power generation plant will be in the form of 
a 400kv line constructed as part of the project. 
2.27 
Overhead line, if required, is likely to have tower heights ranging 
between 35m and 60m depending on design requirements and 
have a span of approximately 360m. The substation height would 
be limited to 12.5m. 
2.28 
Sections 3.3.40 – 3.3.42 of the Scoping Report refer to the 
possibility of Combined Heat and Power (CHP) being part of the 
proposed development but this is to be the subject of further 
investigation. 
Proposed Access  
2.29 
The site is accessed from a private road to the south, Potash Lane 
which, in turn, connects to Castleton Way, via the former main 
runway. Castleton Way, in turn, provides connectivity to the 
B1077 to the east and the A140 to the west. 
2.30 
Sections 5.10.5 and 5.10.6 of the scoping report state that access 
to the power generation plant and gas connection route corridor 
would be via the A140, entering the site from the south via 
Castleton Land and Potash Lane. Access to the electrical 
connection corridor would be via the A140, Mellis Road, through 
Yaxley or Mellis Road, through Thrandeston. There is also a 
possibility that a new access road may need to be constructed 
along the electrical route corridor with main access off the A140. 
 
 
 
Page 8 
Construction 
2.31 
The laydown area for storage of plant and equipment during 
construction will be within the red line boundary of the power 
generation plant as shown in Figures 1 & 2 of the Scoping Report. 
2.32 
Section 3.3.33 of the Scoping Report states that construction and 
commissioning 
of 
the 
proposed 
development 
will 
take 
approximately 12 to 36 months which is dependent upon the final 
choice of plant technology. 
2.33 
The main works associated with the construction phase include: 
• 
the removal of hardstanding; 
• 
excavation and site levelling for new foundations; 
• 
potential piling; and  
• 
the laying of the gas and electrical connection. 
2.34 
Section 5.3.29 of the Scoping Report refers to the production of a 
Construction Environmental Management Plan (CEMP) which is to 
be provided. 
2.35 
Expected transport during the construction phase includes: civil 
works traffic; mechanical works traffic and heavy/abnormal loads. 
2.36 
Section 5.11.16 of the Scoping Report states that there are likely 
to be large items of plant involved in the construction of all 
aspects of the development. 
Operation and Maintenance 
2.37 
The power generation plant would have an operational life of 25 
years 
after 
which 
it 
would 
either 
be 
re-powered 
or 
decommissioned. For the purpose of the EIA, the Scoping Report 
has assumed that it will be decommissioned. 
Decommissioning 
2.38 
Section 3.3.37 of the Scoping Report states that decommissioning 
would involve the removal of all power generation plant items and 
restoration of the site to a similar, pre-construction condition.  
2.39 
Gas and electricity connections may be left in situ to avoid any 
adverse environmental impacts associated with their removal. 
2.40 
Items of plant would be recycled or re-used where possible. 
 
 
 
Page 9 
The Secretary of State’s Comments  
Description of the Application Site and Surrounding Area  
2.41 
In addition to detailed baseline information to be provided within 
topic specific chapters of the ES, the SoS is pleased to note the 
inclusion of a section that summarises the site and surroundings. 
This will establish the context of the proposed development 
including relevant designations and sensitive receptors. This 
section should identify land that could be directly or indirectly 
affected by the proposed development and any associated 
auxiliary facilities, landscaping areas and potential off site 
mitigation or compensation schemes. 
2.42 
The energy centre will require a pipeline connecting it to the NTS 
to obtain gas. It will also require connections to National Grid’s 
electricity network. These connections will be included in the DCO. 
The Scoping Report, at Section 3.2, provides a brief description of 
the site and its surroundings but appear to apply to the power 
station site only. The SoS considers that in addition to a 
comprehensive 
description 
of 
the 
power 
station 
site 
and 
surrounding areas, including the identification of designated areas 
and sensitive receptors, the ES should also include a clear 
description of the separate routes for the electricity connection 
and gas pipeline. 
Description of the Proposed Development  
2.43 
The Applicant should ensure that the description of the proposed 
development that is being applied for is as accurate and firm as 
possible as this will form the basis of the environmental impact 
assessment. It is understood that at this stage in the evolution of 
the scheme the technology to be used and even the area to be 
used for the siting of this technology may not be confirmed. The 
Applicant should be aware however, that the description of the 
development in the ES must be sufficiently certain to meet the 
requirements of paragraph 17 of Schedule 4 Part 1 of the EIA 
Regulations and there should therefore be more certainty by the 
time the ES is submitted with the DCO.  
2.44 
The SoS notes from Sections 3.3.39 – 3.3.42 of the Scoping 
Report, that consideration will be given to CHP in accordance with 
Section 4.6 of National Policy Statement EN-1. The ES should 
provide clear evidence to show that the possibilities of CHP have 
been fully explored and clearly state whether it is intended to 
bring CHP forward as part of the proposed scheme. 
2.45 
The SoS notes from Section 2.4.7 of the Scoping Report that the 
proposed development will be of 299Mwe and therefore excluded 
from the requirement of EN – 1 to be designed to be carbon 
capture ready.  
 
 
 
Page 10 
2.46 
The SoS notes the inconsistency in the Applicants’ Scoping Report 
with regards to the electrical and gas connections that are 
required and whether or not this will be part of the DCO. The 
description of the electricity connection and gas pipeline are 
limited within the ES and it is clear that further work is required to 
refine the proposals and determine the routes, and components of 
these elements of the development. Within the ES the SoS would 
expect to see a clear description of the connections, including any 
associated development required at either end, or along the routes 
of the electricity connection and gas pipeline. 
2.47 
If a draft DCO is to be submitted, the Applicant should clearly 
define what elements of the proposed development are integral to 
the NSIP and which is ‘associated development’ under the Planning 
Act 2008 or is an ancillary matter. Any proposed works and/or 
infrastructure required as associated development, or as an 
ancillary matter, (whether on or off-site) should be considered as 
part of an integrated approach to environmental assessment.  
2.48 
The SoS recommends that the ES should include a clear 
description of all aspects of the proposed development, at the 
construction, operation and decommissioning stages, and include: 
• 
Land use requirements;  
• 
Site preparation; 
• 
Construction processes and methods; 
• 
Transport  routes; 
• 
Operational requirements including the main characteristics 
of the production process and the nature and quantity of 
materials used, as well as waste arisings and their disposal; 
• 
Maintenance activities including any potential environmental 
impacts; and 
• 
Emissions- water, air and soil pollution, noise, vibration, light, 
heat, radiation. 
2.49 
The environmental effects of all wastes to be processed and 
removed from the site should be addressed. The ES will need to 
identify and describe the control processes and mitigation 
procedures for storing and transporting waste off site. All waste 
types should be quantified and classified.  
Flexibility  
2.50 
The SoS notes the comments in the Scoping Report that the 
detailed design of the power station is still being developed and 
that the draft description of development contains a number of 
variables. The SoS welcomes that the proposals are to be firmed 
up during the pre-application stages and encourages consultation 
with relevant bodies. The description of the proposed development 
 
 
 
Page 11 
in the ES will need to be as accurate and firm as possible so that 
the EIA can robustly support the DCO application. 
2.51 
The Applicant’s attention is drawn to the ‘Flexibility’ section in 
Appendix 3 of this Opinion which provides additional details.  
2.52 
The Applicant should make every attempt to narrow the range of 
options and explain clearly in the ES which elements of the 
scheme have yet to be finalised and provide the reasons. At the 
time of application, any proposed scheme parameters should not 
be so wide ranging as to represent effectively different schemes. 
The scheme parameters will need to be clearly defined in the draft 
DCO and therefore in the accompanying ES. It is a matter for the 
Applicant, in preparing an ES, to consider whether it is possible to 
robustly assess a range of impacts resulting from a large number 
of undecided parameters. The description of the proposed 
development in the ES must not be so wide that it is insufficiently 
certain to comply with requirements of paragraph 17 of Schedule 4 
Part 1 of the EIA Regulations. 
2.53 
It should be noted that if the proposed development changes 
substantially 
during 
the 
EIA 
process, 
prior 
to 
application 
submission, the Applicant may wish to consider the need to 
request a new Scoping Opinion. 
Grid Connection  
2.54 
The connection of the power station into the gas and electricity 
networks is an important consideration. Therefore, the SoS 
welcomes the intention to include both connections within the 
proposed DCO application so that all potential effects can be 
assessed within the accompanying ES. The SoS is pleased to note 
that a number of route options for both connections are being 
considered to fully assess the environmental impacts of all options. 
2.55 
The SoS notes that in the absence of a confirmed connection route 
for both the gas and the electricity connections, a number of 
corridors have been identified. The SoS advises that once the 
routes for the connections have been determined, they should be 
refined to ensure a robust assessment of the environmental 
impacts is carried out. The DCO order limits should however be 
broad enough to encompass both temporary and permanent land 
take and development. 
Proposed Access 
2.56 
It is noted that the access arrangements for the gas and electricity 
connections have not been determined and will be developed 
through 
further 
studies. 
The 
SoS 
would 
anticipate 
a 
comprehensive description of the temporary and permanent 
access to all sites to be provided within the ES. 
 
 
 
Page 12 
Construction  
2.57 
The SoS considers that information on construction including: 
phasing of programme; construction methods and activities 
associated with each phase; siting of construction compounds 
(including on and off site); lighting equipment/requirements; and 
number, movements and parking of construction vehicles (both 
HGVs and staff) should be clearly indicated in the ES. 
2.58 
The SoS recommends that an outline Construction Environmental 
Management Plan (CEMP) be appended to the ES providing details 
of specific mitigation measures required to reduce construction 
related impacts. 
Operation and Maintenance 
2.59 
The Scoping Report does not provide information regarding the 
operation and maintenance requirements for the power station or 
the electricity and gas connections. The ES should clearly describe 
these requirements for all elements of the development and 
should cover but not be limited to such matters as:  the number of 
full/part-time jobs; the operational hours and if appropriate, shift 
patterns; the number and types of vehicle movements generated 
during the operational stage. 
Decommissioning 
2.60 
In terms of decommissioning, the SoS welcomes the initial 
consideration of decommissioning. Whilst it is acknowledged that 
information on the decommissioning strategy may not be fully 
developed at this early stage, the purpose of such a long term 
assessment is to enable the decommissioning of the works to be 
taken into account in the design and use of materials such that 
structures can be taken down with the minimum of disruption. The 
SoS advises that as much detail as possible on the proposed 
approach, including the process and methods of decommissioning, 
is provided within the ES to ensure that the long term assessment 
can consider the impacts of decommissioning for each element of 
the proposed scheme. 
 
 
 
Page 13 
3.0 EIA APPROACH AND TOPIC AREAS 
Introduction 
3.1 
This section contains the SoS’s specific comments on the approach 
to the ES and topic areas as set out in the Scoping Report. General 
advice on the presentation of an ES is provided at Appendix 3 of 
this Scoping Opinion and should be read in conjunction with this 
Section.  
3.2 
Applicants are advised that the scope of the DCO application 
should be clearly addressed and assessed consistently within the 
ES.  
ES Approach 
3.3 
The information provided in the Scoping Report sets out the 
proposed approach to the preparation of the ES. Whilst early 
engagement on the scope of the ES is to be welcomed, the SoS 
notes that the level of information provided at this stage is not 
always sufficient to allow for detailed comments from either the 
SoS or the consultees.  
3.4 
The SoS would suggest that the Applicant ensures that appropriate 
consultation is undertaken with the relevant consultees in order to 
agree wherever possible the timing and relevance of survey work 
as well as the methodologies to be used. The SoS notes and 
welcomes the intention to finalise the scope of investigations in 
conjunction with ongoing stakeholder liaison and consultation with 
the relevant regulatory authorities and their advisors. 
3.5 
The SoS recommends that the physical scope of the study areas 
should be identified under all the environmental topics and should 
be sufficiently robust in order to undertake the assessment. The 
extent of the study areas should be on the basis of recognised 
professional guidance, whenever such guidance is available. The 
study areas should also be agreed with the relevant consultees 
and, where this is not possible, this should be stated clearly in the 
ES and a reasoned justification given. The scope should also cover 
the breadth of the topic area and the temporal scope, and these 
aspects should be described and justified. 
Matters to be Scoped Out 
3.6 
The SoS notes the comments regarding the detailed assessment of 
noticeable odour associated with the operation of the Power 
Generation Plant. Given the characteristics of the site and 
proposed development the SoS agrees that a detailed assessment 
of odour can be scoped out. 
 
 
 
Page 14 
3.7 
The SoS notes the comments regarding the assessment of noise 
during operation for the gas and the electricity connections. Based 
on the assumption that the connections will be below ground, the 
SoS agrees to this. However, this is subject to the connections 
being below ground, the noise of substations and all above ground 
installations will require assessment within the ES. 
3.8 
The Scoping Report states that if the electrical connection is not 
included in the DCO (Development Consent Order) application 
then indicative information will be provided.  
3.9 
Decisions to scope out impacts should be fully explained in the ES.  
The SoS acknowledges that electricity routing options are not 
given at this time, in order to demonstrate that topics have not 
simply been overlooked, where topics are scoped out prior to 
submission of the DCO application, the ES should still explain the 
reasoning and justify the approach taken. 
ES Structure    
3.10 
Section 3.5 of the Scoping Report sets out the proposed Contents 
list of the ES on which the Applicant seeks the Opinion of the SoS. 
The list of headings differs from that set out on Page 1 of the 
Scoping Report.  
3.11 
The SoS notes that from the ES Contents sheet (Scoping Report 
Section 4.2) that the EIA would cover a number of assessments 
under the broad headings of:  
• 
Air Quality 
• 
Noise and Vibration 
• 
Ecology 
• 
Water Resources 
• 
Geology, Ground Conditions and Agriculture 
• 
Landscape and Visual 
• 
Waste Management 
• 
Traffic and Infrastructure 
• 
Cultural Heritage / Archaeology 
• 
Socio-Economics, and 
• 
Cumulative Assessment.  
3.12 
The SoS recommends that the ES should include a description of 
the 
proposed 
construction 
programme 
and 
methods. 
This 
information should be used to inform the assessment of 
construction impacts. 
 
 
 
Page 15 
3.13 
The Scoping Report also states that the following information will 
be provided within the application: 
• 
Design and access statement 
• 
Flood risk assessment 
• 
Planning statement 
• 
Climate change / sustainability assessment 
• 
Consultation report 
• 
Statement to inform / Habitat Regulations Assessment 
• 
Site Waste Management Plan 
• 
Surface Water Management Plan 
3.14 
The SoS welcomes the proposal of the applicants to take into 
account the effects of climate change and requires any adaptation 
measures to be based on the latest set of UK Climate Projections, 
the Government’s latest UK Climate change risk Assessment and 
in consultation with the EA. The ES should where possible consider 
the potential effects with providing the proposed technology. 
 
Topic Areas 
 Air Quality (see Scoping Report Section 5.3)  
3.15 
The SoS recommends that assessment methodology is determined 
in consultation with EA, Natural England (NE) and the relevant 
local authorities; including the study area and sensitive receptors. 
The SoS notes that the air quality baseline will be defined using 
available existing baseline monitoring data.  
3.16 
It is noted that the air quality modelling and assessment will 
consider impacts at European designated and other ecological sites 
within 10km of the proposed development. There is also a need for 
the ES to consider potential effects due to an increase in airborne 
pollution during construction, including fugitive dust emissions, on 
other important nature conservation and wildlife sites. The 
approach to this assessment should be agreed with NE. 
3.17 
The SoS welcomes the approach of using Atmospheric Dispersion 
Modelling to assess the effects of significant pollution emissions. 
All assumptions and limitations to assessments, including the 
number, location and height of flue stacks should be clearly 
specified in all relevant sections of the ES.  
3.18 
If details including the number, location and height of the flue 
stacks are not confirmed at the point of application the ES should 
assess operational air quality based on a worst case scenario 
taking into account other nearby pollution sources (existing and 
 
 
 
Page 16 
proposed). The implications of stack height and dispersion of the 
discharge should also be clearly explained.  
3.19 
Predicted pollutant concentrations should be assessed against the 
applicable standard guideline value (e.g. relevant European air 
quality limit values and National Air Quality Objectives). 
3.20 
The SoS notes that the site is near to several sensitive areas 
including national and European-designated wildlife sites. There is 
the need to consider potential impacts to these areas related to an 
increase in airborne pollution including fugitive dust especially 
during site preparation, demolition and construction.  
3.21 
The assessment should take account of the air emissions from the 
proposed development and emissions related to increased 
vehicular movements associated with the proposed development. 
Such information should also inform the ecological assessment. 
3.22 
Changes in air quality and dust levels should be assessed not only 
on site but also off site, including along access roads, local 
footpaths and other PROW. The SoS welcomes the proposal to 
assess the gas and the electrical connections for construction and 
decommissioning impacts on air quality. 
3.23 
Consideration should be given to appropriate mitigation measures 
and to monitoring dust complaints. 
Noise and Vibration (see Scoping Report Section 5.4) 
3.24 
The SoS recommends that the methodology and choice of noise 
receptors should be agreed with the relevant local authorities and 
with the Environment Agency (EA).  
3.25 
The noise and vibration assessments should take account of the 
increased traffic movements along access routes, especially during 
the construction phase. The results from the noise and vibration 
assessments will also provide information to inform the ecological 
assessments, exceptional but essential operations such as venting 
(as applicable to the technology) should be included in the 
assessment. 
3.26 
Noise impacts on sensitive receptors should be specifically 
addressed. Particularly effects on people from any potential noise 
disturbance at night and other unsocial hours such as weekends 
and public holidays.  
3.27 
Where appropriate, effective measures should be provided to 
mitigate against noise nuisance. Negative effects of any proposed 
mitigation on other areas of assessment in the EIA should also be 
assessed – such as the implementation of sound screens on 
wildlife or on visual impact. The ES must make a clear distinction 
between the assessment of effects with and without mitigation. 
 
 
 
Page 17 
3.28 
Consideration should be given to monitoring noise complaints 
during construction and when the development is operational.  
Ecology (see Scoping Report Section 5.5) 
3.29 
The SoS draws the applicants attention to the comments of NE 
(see Appendix 2) regarding the approach to the ecological 
assessment.  
3.30 
The SoS recommends that surveys should be thorough, up to date 
and take account of other development proposed in the vicinity. 
3.31 
The SoS recommends that the proposals should address fully the 
needs of protecting and enhancing biodiversity. The assessment 
should cover habitats, species and processes within the site and its 
surroundings. The SoS draws attention in particular, but not 
exclusively, to the effects on bats, breeding birds, wintering birds 
and great crested newts. The SoS notes the submission of the 
2013 Extended Habitat Survey and welcomes the inclusion of non-
statutory designated sites. 
3.32 
The potential impacts on international and nationally designated 
sites should be assessed as well as county level habitats. The SoS 
notes the possible need for an Appropriate Assessment in view of 
the development site’s location in relation to Redgrave and South 
Lopham Fens Ramsar site and Waveney and Little Ouse Valley 
Fens SAC. Further information is provided in Section 4 of this 
Scoping Opinion. 
3.33 
The assessment should take account of impacts on noise, 
vibration, water management and air quality (including dust), and 
cross reference should be made to these specialist reports.  
3.34 
The operational and decommissioning phases of the works should 
be addressed. The SoS recommends the need to consider 
cumulative impacts and advises this is particularly relevant in 
terms of assessing the impacts on ecology.  
Water Resources (see Scoping Report Section 5.6) 
3.35 
The SoS draws attention to the consultation responses from the 
EA, Mid Suffolk District Council, Suffolk County Council and Public 
Health England (PHE). 
3.36 
The SoS welcomes the assessment of the potential impacts 
resulting from the development of the Power Generation Plant on 
local water quality and flooding. The ES should identify and clearly 
map any surface water resources (including springs and private 
water supplies both internal and external to the site boundary) 
that could potentially affect or be affected by the proposal.  
 
 
 
Page 18 
3.37 
Potential sources of pollution should be identified, as well as 
pathways to potential hydrological and surface water receptors, 
this includes the aquifer below the site. 
3.38 
Full details on the rates of potable use at each stage of 
development should be assessed. . 
3.39 
Potential impacts on the public sewer network should be assessed, 
including easements and any potential impacts arising from 
vibration during the construction works. The SoS recommends 
consultation with relevant organisations (including water and 
sewerage companies) to agree the approach.  
3.40 
Mitigation measures should be addressed and the SoS advises that 
reference should be made to other regimes (such as pollution 
prevention from the EA). On-going monitoring should also be 
addressed and agreed with the relevant authorities to ensure that 
any mitigation measures are effective. 
3.41 
The SoS welcomes the commitment to provide a Flood Risk 
Assessment (FRA) in accordance with the Applications Prescribed 
Forms and Procedures Regulations (APFP). The FRA should cover 
ground water, surface water and fluvial impacts. The SoS 
recommends that a Surface Water Management Plan should be 
prepared which may include a review of existing drainage facilities 
and the provision of interceptors on site. 
3.42 
The FRA should form an appendix to the ES. The SoS recommends 
that the sections considering the water environment should be 
cross referenced. 
Geology and Soils including ground conditions and land use 
(see Scoping Report Section 5.7) 
3.43 
The SoS welcomes that there will be assessment of ground and 
water contamination. The baseline for the ES should explain in 
detail the extent of the study area, ensuring that the impacts are 
considered over a sufficiently wide area and provide the reasons to 
justify this.   
3.44 
The SoS welcomes that there will be full consideration of the 
impact of the proposal on soils as an agricultural resource.  
3.45 
The SoS refers the applicant to the comments raised by the EA 
and the need for early engagement with them. The SoS notes that 
the ES will need to address ground conditions and contaminated 
land fully and the approach to the assessment should be agreed in 
consultation with the EA. 
 
 
 
Page 19 
Landscape and Visual (see Scoping Report Section 5.8) 
3.46 
The Applicant’s attention is drawn to the comments of NE 
regarding the need to consider the potential impacts on 
biodiversity resulting from the loss of existing vegetation; 
appropriate cross reference should be made to the ecology 
section. 
3.47 
The ES should identify landscape planning designations, landscape 
character areas and potentially sensitive receptors. 
3.48 
The SoS draws the attention of the Applicant of the need to liaise 
with the local planning authorities to ensure use is made in the EIA 
of the most up to date policy documents. 
3.49 
The landscape and visual assessment in the scoping report refers 
to the Zone of Theoretical Visibility (ZTV). The SoS advises that 
the ES should describe the methodology and model used, provide 
information on the area covered and the timing of any survey 
work.  Having regard to the topography of the landscape, the ZTV 
should seek to ensure that all potential sensitive receptors are 
considered and viewpoints are agreed with the relevant Local 
Planning Authorities. 
3.50 
All parameters, including the assumptions for the number and 
heights of stacks used in the assessment should be clearly detailed 
and justified. Care should be taken to ensure that the worst case 
scenario for stack height is reflected as appropriate. 
3.51 
The proposals will be for large structures. The SoS requests that 
careful consideration should be given to the form, siting, and use 
of materials and colours in terms of minimising the adverse visual 
impact of these structures. This should include night time views, 
including the impact of lighting. 
3.52 
Appropriate use of photomontages will help to illustrate the views 
prior to development, upon completion and at an agreed future 
date when mitigation measures are fully established. Photos, 
photos montages and wireframes should be presented in a clear 
and readable format that includes clear points of reference to allow 
the reader to readily identify and fully understand the potential 
effects of the proposed development. 
3.53 
The SoS recommends that the location and the timing of 
viewpoints, photographs and visualisations should be agreed with 
the relevant local authorities. 
3.54 
The Applicant’s attention is drawn to the comments of English 
Heritage (see appendix 2) regarding the need to consider historic 
development of landscape and its role in the wider setting of 
heritage assets. 
 
 
 
Page 20 
Waste (see Scoping Report Section 5.9) 
3.55 
The SoS welcomes that an assessment of waste will be undertaken 
and that a Site Waste Management Plan (SWMP) is to be 
produced. This should be provided as an Appendix to the ES. 
3.56 
The Applicant’s attention is drawn to the comments of the EA, 
including the requirement of compliance with the waste hierarchy.  
3.57 
The SoS considers it essential to categorise and quantify the type 
and volume of materials to be removed from the site and identify 
where potential traffic movements would be routed.  
Traffic and Infrastructure (see Scoping Report Section 5.10) 
3.58 
The SoS welcomes the proposed consultation with the local 
highways authority and the Highways Agency (HA) on the 
assessment of transport impacts, particularly to identify any 
cumulative impacts. 
3.59 
The Applicants attention is drawn to the comments received from 
the local authorities and PHE (see Appendix 2) with regard to 
inclusion of information within a Transport Assessment (TA), 
including reference to consideration of non-road transportation 
impact.  
3.60 
Information should be provided on the types of vehicles and plant 
to be used, the number of vehicle trips, during the construction 
and operation phases. This should include vehicular movements 
required during shut down and maintenance periods. 
3.61 
The access route to the site has not been confirmed within the 
Scoping Report. The ES should detail the transport routes to be 
used during construction and operational phases, both within the 
site and along the strategic road network. The measures to be 
employed to ensure that these roads will be utilised should be 
detailed. 
3.62 
The SoS recommends that the ES should take account of the 
location of footpaths and any public rights of way (PRoW) including 
bridleways and byways. The ES should clearly set out the impacts 
on them including within the wider area. It is important to 
minimise hindrance to them where possible.  A clear indication 
should be given as to how the development will affect the existing 
and future facilities in the area and what mitigation would be 
appropriate in the short, medium and long term.   
3.63 
The SoS welcomes the proposal to produce a Travel Plan for the 
construction and operational phases of the proposed development. 
If this is to form a separate document to the ES the Applicant 
should ensure that sufficient information is contained within the ES 
for it to be a stand alone document. 
 
 
 
Page 21 
3.64 
The significance of an identified effect from transportation will 
need to take into account a number of criteria. These criteria will 
need to be carefully described so that impact significance is clearly 
defined within the ES and so that it can be clearly understood how  
significance has been concluded. 
3.65 
Transport of the waste stored temporarily on site should be 
addressed in terms of the form of transport and the possible 
routing. 
3.66 
Cross reference should be made to the Air Quality, Noise and 
Vibration, and waste assessments where appropriate. 
Cultural Heritage / Archaeology (see Scoping Report Section 
5.11) 
3.67 
The SoS notes that a number of different study areas have been 
identified in paragraphs 5.11.21 and 5.11.26 of the scoping report. 
These study areas should be agreed with the relevant planning 
authority (ies) and English Heritage and justified within the ES. 
3.68 
The ES should detail the names and characteristics of the 
important heritage assets that could be potentially affected by the 
proposed 
development. 
Any 
cultural 
heritage/archaeological 
features that are likely to be affected directly or indirectly should 
be clearly identified in the plans of the ES. This should include 
assets considered to be of a national, regional and local 
importance.  
3.69 
The setting of cultural heritage resources could be affected; this 
includes historic buildings, historic landscapes and archaeological 
sites and the SoS considers that these should be addressed in the 
ES. Cross reference should be made to the Landscape and Visual 
section of the ES. 
3.70 
Whilst the SoS acknowledges that the proposed development 
structures may be removed after the operational lifespan of the 
proposed development, the effects on setting will be permanent 
during the operational phase. The SoS recommends that this 
impact is assessed fully within the ES. 
Socio-economics (see Scoping Report Section 5.12) 
3.71 
The SoS recommends that the types of jobs generated should be 
considered in the context of the available workforce in the area, 
this applies equally to the construction and operational stages. 
3.72 
The SoS notes the proposal to study the socio-economic impacts 
for construction, operation and decommissioning, with a potential 
workforce of between 150 and 250 persons and that subject to 
procurement rules that as much of this workforce will be recruited 
locally. The SoS recommends that the assessment includes direct 
 
 
 
Page 22 
and indirect impact with full explanation and justification for any 
presumptions used.  
3.73 
The SoS recommends that the assessment criteria should be 
locationally specific and consider the potential significance of the 
impacts of the proposal within the local and regional context. 
Cumulative Assessment (see Scoping Report Section 5.13) 
3.74 
The SoS notes the intention to take into account the cumulative 
impact of other existing and planned developments in the area. 
This should include development under the control of the local 
planning authority and NSIPs. 
3.75 
The SoS welcomes and endorses the proposal to consult with the 
local planning authorities to identify any other development in the 
area which should be considered. 
 
 
 
Page 23 
4.0 OTHER INFORMATION 
4.1 
This section does not form part of the SoS’s opinion as to the 
information to be provided in the environmental statement. 
However, it does respond to other issues that the SoS has 
identified which may help to inform the preparation of the 
application for the DCO.  
Habitats Regulations Assessment (HRA) 
4.2 
The SoS notes that European sites may be located close to the 
proposed development Redgrave and South Lopham Fens Ramsar 
site and Waveney and Little Ouse Valley Fens SAC. It is the 
Applicant’s responsibility to provide sufficient information to the 
Competent Authority (CA) to enable them to carry out a HRA if 
required. The Applicant should note that the CA is the SoS.  
4.3 
The Applicant’s attention is drawn to The Infrastructure Planning 
(Applications: Prescribed Forms and Procedure) Regulations 2009 
(as amended) (The APFP Regulations) and the need to include 
information identifying European sites to which the Habitats 
Regulations applies or any Ramsar site or potential SPA which may 
be affected by a proposal. The submitted information should be 
sufficient for the competent authority to make an appropriate 
assessment (AA) of the implications for the site if required by 
Regulation 61(1) of the Habitats Regulations. 
4.4 
The report to be submitted under Regulation 5(2)(g) of the APFP 
Regulations with the application must deal with two issues: the 
first is to enable a formal assessment by the CA of whether there 
is  a likely significant effect; and the second, should it be required, 
is to enable the carrying out of an AA by the CA.  
4.5 
When considering aspects of the environment likely to be affected 
by the proposed development; including flora, fauna, soil, water, 
air and the inter-relationship between these, consideration should 
be given to the designated sites in the vicinity of the proposed 
development. 
4.6 
Further information with regard to the HRA process is contained 
within Planning Inspectorate’s Advice Note 10 available on the 
National Infrastructure Planning’s website.  
Sites of Special Scientific Interest (SSSIs) 
4.7 
The SoS notes that a number of SSSIs are located close to or 
within the proposed development. Where there may be potential 
impacts on the SSSIs, the SoS has duties under sections 28(G) 
and 28(I) of the Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981 (as amended) 
(the W&C Act). These are set out below for information. 
 
 
 
Page 24 
• 
Redgrave & Lopham Fensa SSSI 
• 
Redgrave & Lopham Fen National Nature Reserve 
• 
Wortham Ling SSSI 
• 
Burgate Wood SSSI 
• 
Gypsy Camp Meadows, Thrandeston SSSI 
• 
Major Farm, Braiseworth SSSI 
• 
Hoxne Brick Pit SSSI 
• 
Westhall Wood and Meadow SSSI 
• 
Shelfanger Meadows SSSI 
4.8 
Under s28(G), the SoS has a general duty ‘… to take reasonable 
steps, consistent with the proper exercise of the authority’s 
functions, to further the conservation and enhancement of the 
flora, fauna or geological or physiographical features by reason of 
which the site is of special scientific interest’.   
4.9 
Under 
s28(I), 
the 
SoS 
must 
notify 
the 
relevant 
nature 
conservation body (NCB), NE in this case, before authorising the 
carrying out of operations likely to damage the special interest 
features of a SSSI. Under these circumstances 28 days must 
elapse before deciding whether to grant consent, and the SoS 
must take account of any advice received from the NCB, including 
advice on attaching conditions to the consent. The NCB will be 
notified during the examination period.  
4.10 
If applicants consider it likely that notification may be necessary 
under s28(I), they are advised to resolve any issues with the NCB 
before the DCO application is submitted to the SoS. If, following 
assessment by applicants, it is considered that operations affecting 
the SSSI will not lead to damage of the special interest features, 
applicants should make this clear in the ES. The application 
documents submitted in accordance with Regulation 5(2)(l) could 
also provide this information. Applicants should seek to agree with 
NE the DCO requirements which will provide protection for the 
SSSI before the DCO application is submitted. 
European Protected Species (EPS)  
4.11 
The Applicant should also be aware that the decision maker under 
the Planning Act 2008 (PA 2008) has, as the CA, a duty to engage 
with the Habitats Directive. 
4.12 
The SoS considers that there is potential for the presence of EPS 
within the study area for the proposed development. Where a 
potential risk to an EPS is identified and before making a decision 
to grant development consent the CA must, amongst other things, 
address the derogation tests in Regulation 53 of the Habitats 
Regulations. Therefore the Applicant may wish to provide 
 
 
 
Page 25 
information which will assist the decision maker to meet this duty. 
Where required the Applicant should, in consultation with NE, 
agree appropriate requirements to secure necessary mitigation. 
4.13 
If the Applicant has concluded (in consultation with NE) that an 
EPS licence is required the ExA will need to understand whether 
there is any impediment to the licence being granted. It would 
assist the examination if the Applicant could provide with the 
application confirmation from NE whether they intend to issue the 
licence in due course. 
Health Impact Assessment  
4.14 
The SoS considers that it is a matter for the Applicant to decide 
whether or not to submit a stand-alone Health Impact Assessment 
(HIA). However, the Applicant should have regard to the 
responses received from the relevant consultees regarding health, 
and in particular to the comments from the Health and Safety 
Executive in relation to gas and electrical safety issues (see 
Appendix 2). 
4.15 
The methodology for the HIA, if prepared, should be agreed with 
the relevant statutory consultees and take into account mitigation 
measures for acute risks. 
Other regulatory regimes 
4.16 
The SoS recommends that the Applicant should state clearly what 
regulatory areas are addressed in the ES and that the Applicant 
should ensure that all relevant authorisations, licences, permits 
and consents that are necessary to enable operations to proceed 
are described in the ES. Also it should be clear that any likely 
significant effects of the proposed development which may be 
regulated by other statutory regimes have been properly taken 
into account in the ES. 
4.17 
It will not necessarily follow that the granting of consent under one 
regime will ensure consent under another regime. For those 
consents not capable of being included in an application for 
consent under the PA 2008, the SoS will require a level of 
assurance or comfort from the relevant regulatory authorities that 
the proposal is acceptable and likely to be approved, before they 
make a recommendation or decision on an application. The 
Applicant is encouraged to make early contact with other 
regulators. Information from the Applicant about progress in 
obtaining other permits, licences or consents, including any 
confirmation that there is no obvious reason why these will not 
subsequently be granted, will be helpful in supporting an 
application for development consent to the SoS. 
 
 
 
 
Page 26 
 
APPENDIX 1 
List of Consultees 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix 1 
 
APPENDIX 1 
LIST OF BODIES FORMALLY CONSULTED DURING THE 
SCOPING EXERCISE 
CONSULTEE  
ORGANISATION  
The Health and 
Safety Executive 
The Health and Safety Executive 
The National 
Health Service 
Commissioning 
Board 
NHS England 
The relevant 
clinical 
commissioning 
group 
NHS Ipswich and East Suffolk Clinical Commissioning 
Group 
Natural England  
Natural England 
The Historic 
Buildings and 
Monuments 
Commission for 
England  
English Heritage 
The relevant fire 
and rescue 
authority 
Suffolk Fire and Rescue Service 
The relevant 
Police and Crime 
Commissioner 
Police and Crime Commissioner for Suffolk 
The relevant 
Parish Council 
Brome & Oakley Parish Council 
Eye Town Council 
Thrandeston Parish Council 
Yaxley Parish Council 
 
The Environment 
Agency 
The Environment Agency 
The Civil 
Aviation 
Authority 
Civil Aviation  Authority 
The Highways 
Agency 
The Highways Agency 
The relevant 
Highways 
Authority 
Suffolk County Council 
The Coal 
Authority 
The Coal Authority 
The Relevant 
Internal 
Drainage Board 
Waveney, Lower Yare and Lothingland Internal 
Drainage Board 
 
 
 
Appendix 1 
 
CONSULTEE  
ORGANISATION  
Public Health 
England, an 
executive 
agency to the 
Department of 
Health 
Public Health England 
The Forestry 
Commission 
The Forestry Commission 
The Secretary of 
State for 
Defence 
The Ministry of Defence 
Relevant Statutory Undertakers 
Health Bodies (s.16 of the Acquisition of Land Act (ALA) 1981) 
The NHS 
Commissioning 
Board 
NHS England 
The relevant 
Clinical 
Commissioning 
Group 
NHS Ipswich and East Suffolk Clinical Commissioning 
Group 
NHS 
Commissioning 
Board, Local 
Area Team 
East Anglia Local Area Team 
Ambulance 
Trusts 
East of England Ambulance Service NHS Trust 
Relevant Statutory Undertakers (s.8 ALA 1981) 
Railways 
BRB Residuary Limited 
Universal 
Service Provider 
Royal Mail Group 
Licence Holder 
(Chapter 1 of 
Part 1 of 
Transport Act 
2000) 
NATS en Route plc 
Water and 
Sewage 
Undertakers 
Anglian  Water 
Essex and Suffolk Water 
 
Public Gas 
Transports 
British Gas Pipelines Ltd 
Energetics Gas Ltd 
ES Pipelines Ltd 
ESP Connections Ltd 
ESP Networks Ltd 
ESP Pipelines Ltd 
Fulcrum Pipelines Limited 
GTC Pipelines Limited 
Independent Pipelines Limited 
LNG Portable Pipeline Services Limited 
 
 
 
Appendix 1 
 
CONSULTEE  
ORGANISATION  
National Grid Gas Plc  
National Grid Plc  
Quadrant Pipelines Limited 
SSE Pipelines Ltd 
The Gas Transportation Company Limited 
Utility Grid Installations Limited 
Electricity 
Licence Holders 
having CPO 
Powers 
Energetics Electricity Limited 
ESP Electricity Limited 
Independent Power Networks Limited 
The Electricity Network Company Limited 
UK Power Networks Limited 
Electricity 
Transmitters 
with CPO Powers 
National Grid Electricity Transmission plc 
National Grid Plc 
Local Authorities (s.43) 
Babergh District Council 
Breckland Council 
Cambridgeshire County Council 
Essex County Council 
Ipswich Borough Council 
Mid Suffolk District Council 
Norfolk County Council 
South Norfolk Council 
St Edmundsbury District Council 
Suffolk Coastal District Council 
Suffolk County Council 
The Broads Authority 
Waveney District Council 
 
Note: 
the 
Prescribed 
Consultees 
have 
been 
consulted 
in 
accordance with the Planning Inspectorate’s Advice Note 3 
‘Consultation 
and 
notification 
undertaken 
by 
the 
Planning 
Inspectorate’ (May 2012). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX 2 
Respondents to Consultation and Copies 
of Replies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix 2
 
 
 
APPENDIX 2 
LIST OF BODIES WHO REPLIED BY THE STATUTORY 
DEADLINE 
Anglian Water 
The Broads Authority 
Brome & Oakley Parish Council 
The Civil Aviation Authority 
The Coal Authority 
English Heritage 
Environment Agency 
ES Pipelines Ltd 
Eye Town Council 
Fulcrum Pipelines Limited 
Health and Safety Executive 
Mid Suffolk District Council 
National Grid  
NATS 
Natural England 
NHS England – East Anglia Area Team 
Norfolk County Council 
Public Health England 
South Norfolk Council 
Suffolk Coastal District Council 
Suffolk County Council 
Thrandeston Parish Council 
Yaxley Parish Council 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
From:
planningliaison@anglianwater.co.uk
To:
Environmental Services; 
Subject:
LDF/SP160(383) The Planning Inspectorate, Planning Application N/
A for AW Comment, LDF Consultation Body
Date:
20 May 2013 13:12:48
Dear Mr Ridley
Your Ref: 130517_EN010060_1803507
Thank you for your correspondence we received today.  Please note we have no 
comment to make on this occasion.
If you have any questions please do not hesitate to contact me on 01733 414669 
or alternatively the Planning & Equivalence Team can be contacted on 01733 
414690. 
Kind Regards 
Sandeep Bains 
Planning & Equivalence Team
 
From:
To:
Environmental Services; 
Subject:
130517_EN010060_1803507 - Proposed Progress Power Station
Date:
23 May 2013 14:42:27
Dear Sir,
 
Application No      :
BA/2013/0152/SCOCON
Description           :
Scoping opinion for proposed Progress Power 
Project power station
Address                 :
Land At Eye Airfield, Adjacent To A140 Ipswich 
Road , Eye, Suffolk
Applicant               : Progress Power Ltd
 
Thank you for contacting the Broads Authority on the above Scoping Opinion. 
 
As the proposed site is a considerable distance from the Broads Authority Executive Area, the Broads 
Authority have no comments to make.
 
I hope this is acceptable.
 
Kind Regards
 
Mark King
Planning Technical Support Officer
Broads Authority 
 
Tel: 01603 756028
Email: 
 
  
  
We haved moved. Our new address is Yare House, 62-64 Thorpe Road, Norwich, Norfolk, NR1 
1RY. 
 
 
 
 
 
BROME and OAKLEY PARISH COUNCIL 
 
c/o Church Hill, Hoxne, Suffolk IP21 5AT. Tel: 
 
Email: bromeandoakleypc@hotmail.co.uk 
 
Chairman: Councillor David Prior 
   Vice Chairman: Councillor Ursula Halton
 
Clerk: Sarah Foote 
FAO Alan Ridley, EIA and Land Rights Adviser 
The Planning Inspectorate 
3/18 Eagle Wing 
Temple Quay House 
2 The Square 
BRISTOL 
BS1 6PN 
 
 
28 May 2013   
 
 
Dear Sirs, 
 
Ref:  130517 EN010060 1803507 
Scoping Opinion, Proposed Power Station – Eye Airfield, Suffolk 
 
 
In response to your letter of 17 May 2013, Brome and Oakley Parish Council wish to be consultees for 
the above application and as such detail below the information they wish to be considered in the 
Environmental Impact Assessment: 
 
1. Visual Impact on the local community of both the plant itself and any associated structures, for  
example: - electricity pylons, smoke stacks, high-level structures etc.  
 
2. Information regarding any tree planting schemes to mitigate the above visual impact with types, sizes, 
quantities etc. 
 
3. Information regarding the likelihood and subsequent measures to be taken to prevent any noise  
pollution issues to the local community, and what levels of noise are likely to occur if any. 
 
4. Information regarding the discharge of any materials likely to cause any air bourn pollution and what  
these pollutants would be and the quantities likely to be discharged including what mitigating  
measures to be taken. 
 
5. Information regarding any likely ground pollution and what mitigating measures will be taken. 
 
6. Details regarding plant operating times and numbers of staff entering and leaving the site during normal 
operation and the proposed route these would take. 
 
7. Information regarding external illumination of the site with type and proposed measures to prevent  
overspill light pollution to surrounding areas. 
 
I would be grateful if you would confirm receipt of this correspondence. 
 
Yours faithfully, 
SarahFoote 
 
Sarah Foote CiLCA   
Clerk to Brome and Oakley Parish Council. 
BROME and OAKLEY PARISH COUNCIL 
1 
 
c/o Church Hill, Hoxne, Suffolk IP21 5AT. Tel:
 
Email: bromeandoakleypc@hotmail.co.uk 
 
Chairman: Councillor David Prior 
   Vice Chairman: Councillor Ursula Halton
 
Clerk: Sarah Foote 
FAO Alan Ridley, EIA and Land Rights Adviser 
The Planning Inspectorate 
3/18 Eagle Wing 
Temple Quay House 
2 The Square 
BRISTOL 
BS1 6PN 
 
 
11 June 2013   
 
 
Dear Sirs, 
 
 
Ref:  130517 EN010060 1803507 
Scoping Opinion, Proposed Power Station – Eye Airfield, Suffolk 
 
 
Further to my letter of 28 May, and a meeting with other statutory consultees, Brome and Oakley Parish 
Council would like to ask for the following information (in addition to the comments sent on 28 May) to  
be included in the Environmental Impact Assessment: 
 
 
• 
 additional noise and visual impact  measuring point (PGP) as per the drawings attached on pages 2 
 and 3.  
 
 
 
I would be grateful if you would confirm receipt of this correspondence. 
 
 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
 
Sarah Foote CiLCA   
Clerk to Brome and Oakley Parish Council. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BROME and OAKLEY PARISH COUNCIL 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BROME and OAKLEY PARISH COUNCIL 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Civil Aviation Authority 
CAA House  45-59 Kingsway   London   WC2B 6TE  www.caa.co.uk 
Telephone 0207 453 6545    Fax 0207 453 6565    marks.smailes@caa.co.uk 
 
Directorate of Airspace Policy 
 
 
 
 
 
Mr Alan Ridley (via e-mail) 
The Planning Inspectorate 
 
17 May 2013 
 
Reference: ERM/DAP/Planning/ProgressPowerStation 
 
Dear Mr Ridley, 
 
Proposed Progress Power Station – Scoping Opinion 
 
Thank you for the recent Planning Inspectorate correspondence which sought Civil Aviation Authority 
scoping comment relating to the subject development.  I trust the following is useful. 
 
From the associated Scoping Report (SR) I gather that the height of the tallest structure associate with 
the Progress Power Station project is expected to be an as yet undecided number of chimney stacks 
that will be a maximum of 90m in height.  On that basis, I trust the following comment is useful: 
 
• 
Aerodromes.  In respect of any potential aerodrome related issue, I should highlight the need to 
check any safeguarding maps lodged with relevant planning authorities to identify any 
aerodrome specific safeguarding issues.  Noting the presences of several relatively small 
aerodromes in the general location and that aerodrome safeguarding responsibility rests in all 
cases with the relevant aerodrome operator / licensee, not the CAA, it is important that the 
related viewpoints of relevant aerodrome license holders / operators is established and 
planning deliberations take appropriate consideration of any issues highlighted.    
 
• 
Aviation Warning Lighting.  Given the assumed maximum height of associated structures (90m) 
I believe there to be a need for aviation warning lighting.  For background: 
 
o In the UK, the need for aviation obstruction lighting on 'tall' structures depends in the 
first instance upon any particular structure's location in relationship to an aerodrome. If 
the structure constitutes an 'aerodrome obstruction' it is the aerodrome operator that 
with review the lighting requirement. For civil aerodromes, they will, in general terms, 
follow the requirements of CAP 168 - Licensing of Aerodromes. This document can be 
downloaded from the CAA website - Chapter 4 (12.8) refers to obstacle lighting.  
 
o Away from aerodromes Article 219 of the UK Air Navigation Order (ANO) applies. This 
Article requires that for en-route obstructions (ie away from aerodromes) lighting only 
becomes legally mandated for structures of a height of 150m or more. However, 
structures of lesser high might need aviation obstruction lighting if, by virtue of their 
location and nature, they are considered a significant navigational hazard. 
 
o Cranes, whether in situ temporarily or long term are captured by the points heighted 
above.  Note that if a crane is located on top of another structure, it is the overall height 
(structure + crane) than is relevant. 
o In this case, even in the event that there proves to be no aerodrome related lighting 
requirement and the clear non applicability of Article 219, as the chimneys are likely to 
be the tallest structures in the immediate vicinity, I believe that the ‘by virtue of their 
location and nature’ holds true and that the developer considers the employment of 
aviation warning lighting. 
• 
Gas Venting and/or Flaring.  It is assumed that the Progress Power Station is not intended to 
vent or flare gas either routinely or as an emergency procedure such as to cause a danger to 
overlying aircraft.  If that is not the case parties are invited to use myself as an appropriate 
point of contact for any further related discussion. 
 
• 
Aviation Promulgation.  There is a civil aviation requirement in the UK for all structures over 
300 feet high to be charted on aviation maps.  It follows that, at a maximum of 90m (295 feet) 
high, there is no en-route (ie non-aerodrome specific) civil aviation charting requirement.   
 
• 
Military Aviation.  For completeness, the Ministry of Defence position in regards to the proposed 
development and military aviation activity should be established. 
 
• 
I should also add that that due to the unique nature of associated operations in respect of 
operating altitudes and potentially unusual landing sites, it would also be sensible to establish 
the related viewpoint of local emergency services air support units.      
 
Any associated Environmental Statement / Development Consent Order (or equivalent / similar) would 
be expected to acknowledge and where applicable address the issues highlighted above and 
accordingly the scoping opinion should make related comment. 
 
Whilst none of the above negates any aforementioned need to consult in line with Government 
requirements associated with the safeguarding of aerodromes and other technical sites (Government 
Circular 1/2003 refers), I hope this information matches your requirements.  Please do not hesitate to 
get in touch if the Planning Inspectorate requires any further comment or needs clarification of any 
point.    
 
Yours sincerely, 
 
{original signed} 
 
Mark Smailes 
ORA5 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
 
Protecting the public and the environment in coal mining areas 
 
200 Lichfield Lane 
Berry Hill 
Mansfield 
Nottinghamshire 
NG18 4RG 
 
Tel:  
01623 637 119 (Planning Enquiries) 
 
 
Email:  planningconsultation@coal.gov.uk 
 
Web:   www.coal.decc.gov.uk/services/planning 
  
UNCLASSIFIED 
For the Attention of Alan Ridley 
EIA and Land Rights Adviser 
The Planning Inspectorate 
 
[By Email: environmentalservices@infrastructure.gsi.gov.uk] 
 
07 June 2013 
  
Dear Mr Ridley 
 
Infrastructure Planning (Environmental Impact Assessment) Regulations 2009 – 
Proposed Progress Power Station 
 
Thank you for your consultation letter of 17 May 2013 seeking the views of The Coal 
Authority on the EIA Scoping Opinion for the above proposal. 
 
The Coal Authority is a non-departmental public body sponsored by the Department of 
Energy and Climate Change.  As a statutory consultee, The Coal Authority has a duty to 
respond to planning applications and development plans in order to protect the public 
and the environment in mining areas. 
 
The Coal Authority Response 
 
Having reviewed the information that the applicant has provided, I can confirm that the 
proposed development site is located outside of the defined coalfield.  As such, The 
Coal Authority does not wish to make any specific comments on this EIA Scoping 
Opinion. 
 
I trust this is acceptable, please do not hesitate to contact me if you require any 
additional information or would like to discuss this matter further. 
 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
 
David Berry B.Sc.(Hons), MA, MRTPI 
Planning Liaison Manager 
2 
 
Protecting the public and the environment in coal mining areas 
 
Disclaimer 
 
The above consultation response is provided by The Coal Authority as a Statutory 
Consultee and is based upon the latest available data and records held by The Coal 
Authority on the date of the response.  The comments made are also based upon only 
the information provided to The Coal Authority for consultation purposes in relation to 
this specific development proposal.  The views and conclusions contained in this 
response may be subject to review and amendment by The Coal Authority if additional 
or new data/information (such as a revised Coal Mining Risk Assessment) is provided 
for consultation purposes. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EAST OF ENGLAND OFFICE 
 
 
 
BROOKLANDS 24 BROOKLANDS AVENUE CAMBRIDGE CB2 8BU 
 
Telephone 01223 582700  Facsimile 01223 582701 
www english-heritage.org.uk 
The National Monuments Record is the public archive of English Heritage 
 
 
The Planning Inspectorate 
3/18 Eagle Wing 
2 The Square 
Bristol 
BS1 6PN 
                           Direct dial: 01223-
 
                          Direct Fax: 01223 582701 
 
     Your Ref: 130517_EN010060_1803507   
 
            
                                            13 June 2013 
Dear Sir or Madam, 
 
INFRASTRUCTURE PLANNING (ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 
ASSESSMENT) REGULATIONS 2009 SI 2263 (as amended) (the EIA 
Regulations) 
PROPOSED Progress Power Station (the project) 
PROPOSAL BY Progress Power Limited (PPL) (the applicant) 
 
Thank you for consulting English Heritage on the Environmental Impact 
Assessment Scoping Report for the Progress Power Project (development 
at Eye Airfield, Suffolk). This sets out the applicant's approach to assessing 
the impact of the proposed development on the historic environment in section 
5.1 (Cultural Heritage and Archaeology). Section 5.7, Landscape and Visual 
Assessment, is also of relevance in considering the historic environment.   
 
We are broadly content with the approach taken in the document, although we 
have several specific observations to make on the Cultural Heritage 
Assessment. As regards the Landscape Assessment we would make the 
general observation that this assessment should be mindful of the 
historic development of landscape and the role it plays in the wider setting 
of heritage assets. A methodology for landscape assessment should therefore 
be flexible enough to consider the historic environment and inform the 
assessment in section 5.1.  
 
All aspects of the historic environment should be considered, although 
the particular remit of English Heritage would concern the impact 
on Scheduled Ancient Monuments (SAMs), grade I and II* listed buildings 
and conservation  areas. Undesignated archaeological remains would more 
properly be the province of the County Council, so 
we recommend the applicant consult with the County archaeological service 
at an early stage.  Similarly, the conservation officers at Mid-     
Suffolk District Council (and potentially South Norfolk Council) should be 
consulted regarding listed buildings, including those listed at grade II, as well 
as conservation areas and undesignated assets.   
  
 
 
 
 
 
EAST OF ENGLAND OFFICE 
 
 
 
BROOKLANDS 24 BROOKLANDS AVENUE CAMBRIDGE CB2 8BU 
 
Telephone 01223 582700  Facsimile 01223 582701 
www english-heritage.org.uk 
The National Monuments Record is the public archive of English Heritage 
 
Section 2 of the Scoping Report identifies policies relevant to the proposals 
including the National Planning Policy Framework. We would also recommend 
the Practice Guide to PPS5 is consulted as it provides useful guidance on the 
setting of heritage assets. English Heritage's guidance documents on The 
Setting of Heritage Asserts and Seeing History in the View would also be 
useful to the applicant's consultants as they establish the range of ways in 
which setting can contribute to heritage assets' significance and a framework 
for assessing individual sites.     
  
Section 5.10.3 correctly identifies the need to assess the impact on the 
historic environment of the construction, operation and decommissioning of 
the proposed power plant. However, the first step in this process should be 
to establish the significance of assets in the vicinity and should be so noted in 
the document.  The itemization of SAMs and highly-graded listed buildings in 
paragraphs 5.10.5/6 and 5.10.13 might suggest the applicant considers the 
level of designation afforded a heritage asset to indicate the degree of 
sensitivity it has to development in its setting and therefore the level of impact 
assessment it merits. In fact, a grade II building with a particular relationship 
to its landscape could be more vulnerable to harm to its significance 
from development in that landscape than a SAM.  The contribution setting 
makes to historic significance should be established at an early stage and 
without any preconceptions about sensitivity or priority.  
  
If such a presumption about sensitivity of high-graded designated heritage 
assets has been made, it might explain the comment in paragraph 5.10.7 that 
''it is not anticipated that the project would impact on the immediate setting or 
appreciation of these buildings.''  Proper assessment is needed before such 
a judgment can be made, but we are of the view the methodology set out in 
the Cultural Heritage and Archaeology section should allow that to be 
achieved with some modification. 
  
The proposed five kilometre initial search area seems reasonable, but 
we would suggest a search area wider that one kilometre is carried 
out through the HER (paragraph 5.10.21). The list of factors in paragraph 
5.10.28 seem to assume only visual impact should be considered. The PPS5 
practice guide and English Heritage guidance make it clear that spatial and 
historic relationships between places as well as the affect of noise, dust and 
vibration should be considered as well as specific views. Again, we 
would suggest our guidance document is used to ensure a suitably 
encompassing definition of setting is built into the assessment process.  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
EAST OF ENGLAND OFFICE 
 
 
 
BROOKLANDS 24 BROOKLANDS AVENUE CAMBRIDGE CB2 8BU 
 
Telephone 01223 582700  Facsimile 01223 582701 
www english-heritage.org.uk 
The National Monuments Record is the public archive of English Heritage 
 
When considering visual impact and a strategy for field investigation 
(paragraph 5.10.24) it should not be assumed 
that buried archaeological remains have no setting to consider, but rather 
the contribution made to their significance by landscape should be 
considered.  Similarly, visibility should not be the only factor governing 
a selection of sites to visit.  Given the size of the study area we suggest that a 
quite generous approach should be taken to the number of sites that 
are visited in the field. This will produce more complete data to allow 
subsequent production of comprehensive assessment and visualizations. 
  
I hope the above advice is of assistance.  Please do not hesitate to contact us 
if you would like to discuss the matter in detail. 
 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
 
David Eve 
Historic Buildings Inspector 
  
Environment Agency 
Iceni House, Cobham Road, Ipswich, Suffolk, IP3 9JD. 
Customer services line: 03708 506 506 
www.environment-agency.gov.uk 
Cont/d.. 
 
creating a better place 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mr Alan Ridley 
The Planning Inspectorate 
National Infrastructure Directorate 
Temple Quay House 2 
The Square Temple Quay 
Bristol 
Avon 
BS1 6PN 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Our ref: 
AE/2013/116104/01-L01 
Your ref: 
EN010060 
 
Date:  
14 June 2013 
 
 
 
Dear Mr Ridley 
 
INFRASTRUCTURE PLANNING (ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT) 
REGULATIONS 2009 SI 2263 (AS AMENDED) (THE EIA REGULATIONS) 
PROPOSED PROGRESS POWER STATION (THE PROJECT) 
PROPOSAL BY PROGRESS POWER LIMITED (PPL) (THE APPLICANT) EYE 
AIRFIELD       
 
Thank you for consulting us about the above Scoping Opinion request by Progress 
Power Limited in connection with the proposed power station development at Eye 
Airfield. 
 
We have reviewed the Scoping Report and have a number of comments on various 
topic areas which are set out below. 
 
Power Station Options 
 
We note that the developer has yet to finalise the choice of plant and technology and 
both areas are still the focus of ongoing technical studies. Until the final choice has 
been made we would expect the developer to carry out the impact assessment work, as 
based on those areas of significance that have been scoped in, across the range of 
options set out under section 3.4.  
 
Flood Risk - Surface Water Drainage 
  
Our most recent modelled data indicates that the site lies within Flood Zone 1, and is 
therefore at low risk of flooding from fluvial or tidal sources (i.e. a less than 0.1% annual 
probability of flooding). The modelled flood outlines show areas of potential flooding as 
a direct result of floodwater coming from a watercourse and no direct effects of surface 
runoff or surface flooding are included. As such, any planning application for a site 
greater than 1 hectare in area will need to be supported by an appropriate site specific 
 
 
Cont/d.. 
 
:\Users\ahunter\Desktop\PDF letters\Progress Power Station Eye Station pdf 
version.docx
2 
Flood Risk Assessment (FRA). 
  
The FRA will need to assess the flood risks to the development site, and demonstrate 
how the building and any occupants will be kept safe from flooding, now, and over the 
lifetime of the development and not increase flood risk elsewhere as a result of any 
additional impermeable surfaces. 
  
Within the FRA, allowances for climate change should be considered within the design 
of the surface water drainage scheme. The allowances should be applied as detailed in 
the Technical Guidance to the National Planning Policy Framework (NPPF), for the 
lifetime of the proposed development, including allowances for climate change. 
  
The development of this site should look to incorporate sustainable drainage systems 
(SUDS) to manage surface water in accordance with paragraph 103 of the NPPF and 
Mid Suffolk District Council‟s Strategic Flood Risk Assessment (SFRA). There is the 
opportunity to incorporate a range of SUDS features due to the scale of the 
development site.  
  
Flood Risk to the Proposed Development Site 
The FRA submitted with the proposed application must comply with the requirements 
set out in paragraph 9 of the Technical Guide to the NPPF. The submitted FRA should 
provide a suitable basis for assessment to be made of the flood risks arising from the 
proposed development. In particular, the submitted FRA should demonstrate that an 
adequate surface water management strategy will be adopted. With regards to surface 
water management, the FRA should provide: 
  
1. Confirmation that any runoff from the developed site shall not exceed the existing 
greenfield runoff rates for a range of equivalent return period rainfall events over 
the lifetime of the development. 
2. Calculations to demonstrate that the proposed surface water management 
scheme has been adequately sized to accommodate the critical duration 1 in 100 
year rainfall event including allowances for climate change without causing 
nuisance or damage. The management strategy should consider both storage 
and conveyance of surface water. 
3. Plans and drawings showing the locations and dimensions of all aspects of the 
proposed surface water management scheme. The submitted plans should 
demonstrate that the proposed drainage layout will perform as intended based on 
the topography of the site and the location of the proposed surface water 
management features. In addition, Full design details, including cross sections of 
any proposed infiltration or attenuation features will be required. 
4. Confirmation that in the event of exceedance flows that surpass the critical 
duration rainfall event or a blockage/failure occurs within the drainage network 
any proposed features should incorporate an emergency spillway as part of their 
design. We suggest that the emergency spillway directs any exceedance flows 
away from the development. 
5. Sufficient information to demonstrate that people and property will be kept safe 
from flooding, with consideration given to overland flow routing where required. 
6. Details of the future adoption and maintenance of all aspects of the surface water 
drainage strategy. The local planning authority should be satisfied that 
arrangements are in place for the long term maintenance and management of 
the surface water management scheme. 
7. Information to demonstrate that priority is given to the use of sustainable 
 
 
Cont/d.. 
 
:\Users\ahunter\Desktop\PDF letters\Progress Power Station Eye Station pdf 
version.docx
3 
drainage systems (SUDS) for the disposal of surface water from all elements of 
the development proposal. Therefore, the scheme shall incorporate the SUDS 
“Management Train” and ensure all features are designed in accordance with 
CIRIA (C697) The SUDS Manual so ecological, water quality and aesthetic 
benefits can be achieved in addition to the flood risk management benefits. In 
addition, the maintenance requirements for the SUDS element of the proposed 
surface water drainage system should be formulated as per the 
recommendations within the CIRIA SUDS Manual (C697). 
8. Evidence to establish if the principles of any infiltration based surface water 
drainage strategy are achievable on site based on the ground conditions. The 
FRA should provide evidence that the ground conditions are suitable for the 
proposed methods, such as infiltration or soakaway tests which adhere to 
BRE365 guidance. 
 
Reason 
To prevent the increased risk of flooding, to improve and protect water quality, improve 
habitat and amenity, and ensure future maintenance of the surface water drainage 
system. 
 
Additional Advice to Applicant 
Erection or replacement of flow control structures or any culverting of an ordinary 
watercourse requires consent from the relevant Lead Local Flood Authority (Suffolk 
County Council). It is best to discuss proposals for any works with them at an early 
stage. 
 
We would suggest that, given the mapped presence of an aquifer at the site further 
groundwater investigation takes place in order to clarify any potential risk. In the event a 
high groundwater table occurs, the cumulative effect of surface water that is impeded 
from draining and an elevated groundwater table could pose an unacceptable flood risk 
to the development or impact the design of attenuation or infiltration features. 
 
There are a number of valley features within the red line boundary which may act as 
surface water flow routes. The layout of the proposed development should follow the 
“sequential approach” detailed in paragraph 6.7 of the PPS25 Practice Guide so as to 
ensure that sensitive parts of the development avoid any potential flood risk. 
 
Water Quality 
 
Paragraph 5.6.4 of the Scoping Report refers to small quantities of water (blowdown) 
from the Power Generation Plant being discharged to avoid the build-up of impurities in 
the HRSG steam/water cycle.  It is not clear from this description whether this discharge 
will be to the existing sewerage system or to local watercourses. 
 
The Environmental Statement (ES) should clarify the nature and location of the 
discharge, and if it is proposed that the discharge would be to a local watercourse the 
ES should 
 set out the volumes of water likely to be discharged 
 the constituents, including concentrations 
 potential impacts arising from the discharge on the water environment, including 
implications for Water Framework Directive (including Habitats Directive) 
compliance. 
 
 
 
Cont/d.. 
 
:\Users\ahunter\Desktop\PDF letters\Progress Power Station Eye Station pdf 
version.docx
4 
In addition, it is advisable that the applicant initiates pre-application discussions with us 
early on the process so that the discharge requirements can be discussed and 
agreement reached at an early stage ahead of the submission of the Development 
Consent Order application. 
Consideration of the potential for a Water Framework Directive (WFD) Report / 
Assessment is discussed – see paragraph 5.6.21 - under the heading of water 
resources. There is also the potential for a WFD Report to be required in relation to 
water quality. We can advise the developer further on this area once the impact 
assessment work is underway and there is certainty on the degree of impacts on water 
quality receptors.  
 
Water Resources 
 
Consideration of the potential for a Water Framework Directive Report / Assessment in 
paragraph 5.6.21 is very much welcomed. We can advise the developer further on this 
area once the impact assessment work is underway and there is certainty on the degree 
of impacts on water resource receptors. 
 
Paragraph 5.6.3: It should be noted that there is no water available in this catchment for 
abstraction should air cooling become unviable. From attendance by us at the meeting 
held with the developer and the local and county planning authorities on 16 May 2013 
and the Scoping Report, it is evident that water will be tankered in from an external 
source which would be acceptable.  
 
Paragraph 5.6.34: „It is possible that an underground electrical route may need to cross 
a water body, various crossing techniques will also be considered. These may include 
horizontal directional drilling, particularly for larger water bodies, or temporary bunding 
and over-pumping where flows are lower‟. If this is the case then the appropriate 
licensing must be sought for temporary works and a WFD assessment must be carried 
out for the affected waterbod(ies).  
 
Waste Management 
 
Paragraph 5.9.3: More information will be required as to the types of hazardous wastes 
that will be produced on site and their management.  
 
Paragraph 5.9.14: The applicant should be aware that compliance with the waste 
hierarchy is a legal obligation under section 12 (1) of the Waste Regulations (England 
and Wales) 2011 and revised Waste Framework Directive 2008 (rWFD) 
 
Paragraph 5.9.16: With reference to the Site Waste Management Plan (SWMP), the 
Agency strongly recommends the use of the BRE‟s SMARTWaste Plan - see web link 
http://www.smartwaste.co.uk/.  Many of the points raised in paragraph 5.9.15 will be 
addressed through the SWMP. 
 
Waste should be designed out during the design phase to ensure that during the 
construction and during demolition at the end of life, minimal volumes of waste result.  
 
There should be a prioritisation for waste prevention and we would expect to see 
recycled/reused/recovery targets, together with a minimum target for landfill diversion.  
 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
End 
 
:\Users\ahunter\Desktop\PDF letters\Progress Power Station Eye Station pdf 
version.docx
5 
 
 
Andrew Hunter 
Sustainable Places - Planning Advisor 
 
Direct dial 
 
Direct e-mail 
 
 
 
 
From:
To:
Environmental Services; 
Subject:
RE: Progress Power Station - EN010060 - Scoping Consultation
Date:
22 May 2013 12:37:43
Hi Alan,
 
INFRASTRUCTURE PLANNING (ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 
ASSESSMENT)
REGULATIONS 2009 SI 2263 (as amended) (the EIA 
Regulations)
PROPOSED Progress Power Station (the project)
PROPOSAL BY Progress Power Limited (PPL) (the applicant)
 
Your Ref: 130517_EN010060_1803507
ESP Ref: PE108690
 
Further to your email communication to E S Pipelines Ltd, ESP 
Networks Ltd, ESP Pipelines Ltd, ESP Electricity Ltd and ESP 
Connections Ltd dated 17 May 2013 I can confirm that our businesses 
have no comments at this stage.
 
Regards,
 
Alan Slee
Operations Manager
 
DD 01372 
Mobile 
Fax 01372 386203
www.espipelines.com
 
 
 
c/o Church Hill, Hoxne, Eye, Suffolk IP21 5AT 
Tel: 
  Email: townclerk@eyesuffolk.org 
Mayor:  Cllr Linda Cummins  Town Clerk:  Sarah Foote 
 
 
FAO Alan Ridley, EIA and Land Rights Adviser 
The Planning Inspectorate 
3/18 Eagle Wing 
Temple Quay House 
2 The Square 
BRISTOL 
BS1 6PN 
 
11 June 2013   
 
 
Dear Sirs, 
 
Ref:  130517 EN010060 1803507 
Scoping Opinion, Proposed Power Station – Eye Airfield, Suffolk 
 
In response to your letter of 17 May 2013, Eye Town Council confirm their wish to be consulted on the 
above proposed application and as such detail below the information they wish to be included in the 
Environmental Impact Assessment: 
 
Can a Combined Heat and Power Option be researched, in order to use the potentially massive 
amounts of excess heat that is produced? The possibility of using glass houses alongside the power 
station to use this heat and CO2 beneficially, should also be considered. (3.3.40/41 – a problem with the 
variable nature of the heat production) 
 
Landscape and Visual Impact; the Zone of Theoretical Visibility needs to be much wider. Further 
viewpoints should be located on high ground to the North, West, the South and East of Eye (A140 north 
of Dickleburgh, the roads out to Thornham and Gislingham, the road out to Occold and the roads out to 
Hoxne/Stradbroke B1117) We suggest that a landscape architect should be used to assess the visual 
impact on the area of such a large building with it associated chimneys. 
 
Noise Monitoring sites; add Langton Green/Grove to the East and the high ground to the South West 
beyond Cranley Manor in the area Fuffolk Farm and Cranley Green. There is already a high level of noise 
over this area caused by the regular venting of steam from the existing power station so any extra noise 
could be a problem. 
 
 
continued ……. 
 
 
 
 
 
2. 
 
 
Water Resources; how many tanker movements are involved? What effect will they have on existing 
A140 traffic volumes? What investigations for on‐site water extraction are planned, particularly in view 
of the scarcity of ground water in the area? There is also a need for careful planning of surface water 
treatment/run off particularly with the existing run‐off problems effecting Eye. 
 
Traffic movements and Safety; The potential of such a large workforce during construction, their 
housing and travel to and from the site should also be investigated. The details of the lorry routes onto 
and off the site, ‘their policing’ during construction should also be factored in.  
How would such a large site, during and after construction, be made secure from theft or attack?  Are 
high wire fences (for example) with their attendant visual impact being considered? 
 
There are concerns on the possibility of a large transformer station being established near Thrandeston 
or Yaxley with all the associated cabling. Underground electrical connection to this substation adjacent 
to existing pylons is therefore the preferred option. We also feel that it is particularly important to 
assess the landscape and wildlife impacts of the various options for connection of gas and electricity in a 
way that allows us to compare them. 
 
Section 5.12.8 “PPL will investigate……..a method for providing benefits to the local community which 
will go beyond the creation of jobs” – Eye, and the closer parishes, will need substantial financial 
recompense in view of the impact on Eye, i.e. as a tourist attraction. For example, could something be 
done to recognise the heritage of the airfield or securing the electrical supply to the town or 
surrounding villages as part of the mitigation as something linked to benefit Eye?   
 
In addition to the parishes you have chosen as statutory consultees, we feel there should also be input 
from parishes further afield (e.g. Mellis, Thornham and Hoxne who will be effected). We would suggest 
that a Liaison Group is quickly established with meetings, say, twice a year, with membership from all 
the surrounding parishes which are concerned about this development. 
 
I would be grateful if you would confirm receipt of this letter.  
 
Yours sincerely, 
 
 
 
Sarah Foote 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clerk  
From:
To:
Environmental Services; 
Subject:
RE: Progress Power Station - EN010060 - Scoping Consultation
Date:
28 May 2013 16:57:56
Attachments:
image003.png 
Thank you for asking Fulcrum Pipelines Limited to examine your consultation 
document for the above project.
 
We can confirm that Fulcrum Pipelines Limited have no comments to make on 
this scoping report. Please note that we are constantly adding to our 
underground assets and would strongly advise that you consult us again prior to 
undertaking any excavations. 
 
Please note that other gas transporters may have plant in this locality which 
could be affected.
 
We will always make every effort to help you where we can, but Fulcrum 
Pipelines Limited will not be held responsible for any incident or accident 
arising from the use of the information associated with this search. The details 
provided are given in good faith, but no liability whatsoever can be accepted in 
respect thereof.
 
If you need any help or information simply contact Graham Penlington directly 
on 01142 804175.
 
To save you time, any future requests for information about our plant, can be 
emailed to FPLplantprotection@fulcrum.co.uk
 
GRAHAM PENLINGTON 
Process Assistant 
 
Tel: 0845 641 3010  ext: 4175 
Direct Dial:  
Email:
 
Web: www.fulcrum.co.uk
  
 
Babergh District Council 
Council Offices, Corks Lane, Hadleigh, Ipswich, IP7 6SJ 
Telephone 
(01473) 822801 
Facsimile 
(01473) 825742 
Minicom  
(01473) 825878 
www.babergh.gov.uk 
 
Mid Suffolk District Council 
Council Offices, High Street, Needham Market, Ipswich, IP6 8DL 
Telephone 
(01449) 724500 
Facsimile 
(01449) 724627 
SMS Text Mobile (07827) 842833 
www.midsuffolk.gov.uk 
 
 
Strategic Director (Place): Lindsay Barker 
Head of Economy: Peter Burrows   Head of Environment: Chris Fry 
 
 
  
Place Directorate 
Responsible for the Economy  
and the Environment  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Please ask for: 
Mr. Ward  
Direct line: 
01473 8
 
Mr. A Ridley 
The Planning Inspectorate  
3/18 Eagle Wing  
Temple Quay House  
2 The Square 
BRISTOL  BS1 6PN  
 
BY EMAIL  
 
Fax number: 
 
Your reference: 
130517-EN010060-1803507 
Our reference: 
 
E-mail: 
 
Please reply to: 
Mid Suffolk District Council  
 
 
14 June 2013 
 
Dear Mr Ridley  
 
1. INFRASTRUCTURE PLANNING (ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT) REGULATIONS, 
2009 (AS AMENDED) 
2. PROPOSED POWER GENERATION PLANT, EYE AIRFIELD INDUSTRIAL ESTATE, EYE, 
SUFFOLK  
 
Thank you for your letter dated 17 May 2013.   
 
Mid Suffolk Council request that consideration be given to the inclusion of the following information 
within the Environmental Statement  which will accompany the proposed Development Consent Order 
application.  The observations contained within this letter should be read in conjunction with those 
submitted by Suffolk County Council.   
 
Scope of the Project  
 
The scope of the project has been very broadly defined.  As a consequence the potential implications 
are not entirely clear.  The Council therefore request that the parameters of the project are clarified in 
the Environmental Statement (ES) from the outset.  In its opinion the project should include both the 
gas and electricity connections so that the project can be considered in totality.  This would greatly 
assist the local community in understanding the nature and scope of the proposal.     
 
Consideration of Alternatives  
 
The Scoping Report suggests that the ES will set out the site selection processes but contains no 
further information.  In accordance with current best practice the Council would request that the 
applicants outline the main alternatives considered and the reasons why the site is being advanced for 
development.   
 
Approach to Environmental Impact Assessment   
 
The suggested structure and layout of the proposed ES is acceptable however care will be required to 
ensure ‘crossovers’ between subject areas are fully explained and any mitigation measures are 
complementary.   
 
Cont/… 
- 2 - 
 
Policy Background  
 
The applicant’s attention is drawn to the comments made by Suffolk County Council and in particular 
the provisions of the Suffolk Waste Core Strategy.  The applicants will also be aware that the Eye 
Airfield Development Framework is close to adoption.  This document makes provision for possible 
residential development within the vicinity of the proposed power generation plant.  It will therefore be 
necessary for the environmental impact assessment to take this factor into account, especially in 
relation to noise and air quality issues.   
 
Air Quality  
 
The overall approach to the assessment of air quality issues is acceptable however the Scoping 
Report makes reference to reliance upon local authority data.  The applicant needs to be made aware 
that there is a paucity of air quality data which will have to be addressed.   
 
The existing and proposed wind turbines within the area will need to be taken into account in order to 
assess their impact upon dispersion models.  Likewise the existing biomass plant and other energy 
from waste proposals will need to be factored into the dispersion modelling in order to assess the 
cumulative impact of the scheme.   
 
In terms of receptor locations the applicant will need to establish that there are no unimplemented 
planning permissions within the vicinity that may have an impact upon the modelling.   
 
It is also requested that the ES outlines how the proposed plant will secure a reduction in carbon 
emissions within the region over its lifetime and whether it will have any micro climatic effects.   
 
Noise and Vibration  
 
It should be noted that the site is located within a predominantly rural area where the ambient 
background noise levels are low, especially at night.  The overall approach to the assessment of noise 
and vibration issues is acceptable however the Council would request that the applicant agrees the 
baseline line monitoring positions before commencing the background noise surveys.  The Scoping 
Report suggests four locations for monitoring purposes but a fifth position on the outskirts of Eye 
should be considered near to the residential properties in Castleton Way.   
 
Ecology  
 
The Council would draw the applicant’s attention to the comments made by Suffolk County Council, 
particularly in relation to the linkages between the landscape visual and ecological implications of the 
proposal.  As indicated in the County Council’s response the ES should not only give consideration to 
the mitigation of the proposal but also the opportunities that exist to enhance local biodiversity.  In this 
regard there is extensive knowledge within the local community.   
 
Water Resources  
 
As indicated in the response provided by Suffolk County Council the site is located within an extremely 
water stressed area.  The ES should therefore clearly set out the possible water requirements during 
the construction and operational phases of the development.   
 
The Scoping Report identifies five surface water bodies within the vicinity of the proposed plant 
however there are known to be more.  The applicant should therefore be encouraged to undertake a 
more extensive survey.   
 
The ES should set out the opportunities available to manage surface water drainage as a means of 
mitigation, including the use of Sustainable Drainage Systems.   
 
Cont/… 
- 3 - 
 
Geology, Ground Conditions and Agriculture  
 
The ES should be clear about the possible implications of buried pipes and cables on future 
agricultural activities and the opportunities available to mitigate any potential loss of productive land.   
 
In view of the former WW2 use of the site the investigation for potential contaminants should be 
extended to include munitions.   
 
Landscape and Visual Impact  
 
The District Council would draw the applicant’s attention to the comments made by Suffolk County 
Council in relation to the assessment of baseline conditions and local landscape characterisations.  It 
is requested that the applicant gives further consideration to the selection of viewpoints in consultation 
with both authorities and South Norfolk Council before embarking upon the preparation of the ES.  The 
applicants will no doubt be aware of the Landscape Institute’s recommendations in its ‘Guidelines for 
Landscape and Visual Assessment’, Third Edition (2013) in this regard.   
 
The ES should include a specific assessment to identify the possible implications of artificial lighting 
during the construction and operational phases.    
 
Waste Management  
 
The ES should give thorough consideration to the management of waste arising from the site, 
particularly during the construction phase.   
 
Traffic, Transport and Access 
 
Suffolk County Council is the relevant local highway authority and its comments should be taken into 
account by the applicants when preparing the ES.  The Council would however request that the ES 
takes into account the impact of the proposals upon existing public rights of way and the needs of 
pedestrians and cyclists.  A Travel Plan will be required to accompany the proposals in due course. 
 
Cultural Heritage and Archaeology  
 
It would be helpful if the ES was prepared to provide an appropriate differentiation between above and 
below ground heritage assets.   
 
In relation to above ground heritage assets the guidance produced by English Heritage ‘The Setting of 
Heritage Assets’ (2011) should be followed and informed by the recent High Court Judgment (Barnwell 
Manor [2013] EWHC 473 (Admin)).  Turning to the Scoping Report and specific paragraphs:  
 
5.11.7 - The purpose of the ES is to assess the impacts of the proposed development on the 
significance of heritage assets.  This paragraph correctly identifies factors which may apply to 
individual assets, but appears to include assumptions as to the outcome of such assessment. 
 
5.11.24 - The approach of identifying heritage assets potentially affected through a desk-based 
approach combined with a ZTV is supported.  The ES should list all assets identified in this way and 
explain how individual assets were selected for on-site evaluation.  It is recommended that all buildings 
listed at grades I and II* within the ZTV are assessed on site, and any grade II buildings whose 
settings appear from desk-based screening to be likely to be affected. 
 
5.11.25 - Conservation Areas should be included, so as to enable assessment of the significance of 
views within, across, into and out of the Conservation Area, and the significance of their setting.  The 
Scoping Report correctly includes undesignated historic buildings. 
 
5.11.26 - The approach to the extent of the ZTV is appropriate and allows for amendment as found 
necessary. 
 
Cont/… 
- 4 - 
 
In the event that an overhead electrical connection is proposed (5.11.14), the extent and shape of the 
ZTV should take into account the location of any proposed pylons. 
 
5.11.28 - The Scoping Report correctly recognises that there are many relevant factors, and not just 
inter-visibility between the asset and the development.  The checklists of factors found in English 
Heritage’s The Setting of Heritage Assets should therefore be used, including:  
 
• 
orientation of the building, 
• 
principal and secondary elevations, 
• 
important views from and towards,  
• 
immediate designed setting,  
• 
longer views, 
• 
public viewpoints, and  
• 
wider setting including negative features.  
 
In settlements, groups of buildings can be assessed together rather than individually, but views along 
streets for instance may be sensitive. 
 
Environmental Statements commonly address setting issues by means of scoring sensitivity and 
degree of impact, analysed in a matrix.  English Heritage’s guidance stresses that while this approach 
is useful in gauging the overall likely scale of harm, it cannot substitute for on-site assessment of the 
setting and significance of individual assets and any impact on them set out in a narrative account, in 
an appropriate and proportionate manner. 
 
The applicant’s attention is drawn to a few heritage assets which were subject of particular attention 
during handling of the turbine applications at Eye Airfield: 
 
• 
Goswald Hall, Thrandeston – listed farmhouse and listed dovecote with designed landscape 
including moat and parkland with straight approach road from the east, 
• 
Mellis Conservation Area – centred round a long green which is open to the countryside at the 
east, and  
• 
Eye Castle and Church – prominent landmarks in long views of the town. 
 
Please see the observations provided by Suffolk County Council in relation to below ground heritage 
assets.  
 
Socio-Economic Impacts  
 
In addition to the comments made by Suffolk County Council the Council would request that the ES 
gives consideration to the possible impact of the proposal upon the availability of Tourist and Bed and 
Breakfast accommodation in the area during the constructional and operational phases.  The duration 
of the construction phase is such that consideration should be given to the provision of temporary 
accommodation to minimise the potential impacts upon the tourism industry.   
 
The ES also needs to be clear about the extent of ‘efforts’ (Section 5.11.25) that will be made to 
procure local goods and services.   
 
Cumulative Impacts  
 
The ES will need to account for the cumulative impact of the proposal with other projects within the 
vicinity of the site which either have the benefit of planning permission or are included as proposals 
within existing and emerging Development Plan documents.  In addition consideration will be required 
to the implementation other Nationally Significant Infrastructure Projects which may have implications 
upon labour supply and local accommodation.   
 
Cont/… 
- 5 - 
 
I trust the above is self-explanatory but please do not hesitate to contact me if anything is unclear.  A 
copy of this letter has been forwarded to the applicant and Suffolk County Council.   
 
Yours sincerely  
N J Ward  
Corporate Manager - Community Planning, Heritage and Design    
 
CC 
C McKerrow – Progress Power  
 
M Wilks – Suffolk  
 
National Grid house 
Warwick Technology Park 
Gallows Hill, Warwick 
CV34 6DA 
 
National Grid is a trading name for: 
National Grid is  a trading name for: 
National Grid Electricity Transmission plc 
National Grid Gas plc 
Registered Office: 1-3 Strand, London WC2N 5EH 
Registered Office: 1-3 Strand, London WC2N 5EH 
Registered in England and Wales, No 2366977 
Registered in England and Wales, No 2006000 
 
 
The Planning Inspectorate 
Environmental Services 
3/18 Eagle Wing 
Temple Quay House 
2 The Square 
Bristol 
BS1 6PN 
Land and Development Group 
Marcella Styles 
Policy Planner 
Land & Development  
marcella.styles@nationalgrid.com 
Direct tel: +44 (0)1926 
 
 
 
SUBMITTED VIA EMAIL TO: 
environmentalservices@infrastructure.gsi.gov.uk 
 
www.nationalgrid.com 
13 June 2013 
 
Our Ref:  
 
Your Ref: 130517_EN010060_1803507 
 
 
Dear Sir/Madam 
 
Progress Power Station 
 
I refer to your letter dated 17 May 2013 regarding the above proposed application. Having reviewed 
the scoping report, I would like to make the following comments: 
 
National Grid Infrastructure within or in close proximity to the Proposed Order Limits 
 
National Grid Electricity Transmission 
National Grid Transmission has a high voltage electricity overhead transmission line which lies 
within or in close proximity to the proposed order limits. This line forms an essential part of the 
electricity transmission network in England and Wales, the details are as follows: 
• 
4YM – 400kV from Bramford substation to Norwich Main substation. 
 
A plan showing the route of our overhead line within the area shown in the consultation documents 
is enclosed.  
 
The following points should be taken into consideration: 
 
� 
Statutory electrical safety clearances must be maintained at all times. Any proposed 
buildings must not be closer than 5.3m to the lowest conductor. National Grid recommends 
that no permanent structures are built directly beneath overhead lines. These distances are 
set out in EN 43 – 8 Technical Specification for “overhead line clearances Issue 3 (2004) 
available at: 
http://www.nationalgrid.com/uk/LandandDevelopment/DDC/devnearohl final/appendixIII/ap
pIII-part2 
 
� 
If any changes in ground levels are proposed either beneath or in close proximity to our 
existing overhead lines then this would serve to reduce the safety clearances for such 
overhead lines. Safe clearances for existing overhead lines must be maintained in all 
circumstances. 
 
 
National Grid house 
Warwick Technology Park 
Gallows Hill, Warwick 
CV34 6DA 
 
National Grid is a trading name for: 
National Grid is  a trading name for: 
National Grid Electricity Transmission plc 
National Grid Gas plc 
Registered Office: 1-3 Strand, London WC2N 5EH 
Registered Office: 1-3 Strand, London WC2N 5EH 
Registered in England and Wales, No 2366977 
Registered in England and Wales, No 2006000 
 
� 
Further guidance on development near electricity transmission overhead lines is available 
here: http://www.nationalgrid.com/NR/rdonlyres/1E990EE5-D068-4DD6-8C9A-
4D0B06A1BA79/31436/Developmentnearoverheadlines1.pdf 
 
� 
The relevant guidance in relation to working safely near to existing overhead lines is 
contained within the Health and Safety Executive’s (www.hse.gov.uk)  Guidance Note GS 
6 “Avoidance of Danger from Overhead Electric Lines”  and all relevant site staff should 
make sure that they are both aware of and understand this guidance. 
 
� 
Plant, machinery, equipment, buildings or scaffolding should not encroach within 5.3 
metres of any of our high voltage conductors when those conductors are under their worse 
conditions of maximum “sag” and “swing” and overhead line profile (maximum “sag” and 
“swing”) drawings should be obtained via the National Grid’s  Asset Protection Team at 
Warwick. 
 
� 
Drilling or excavation works should not be undertaken if they have the potential to disturb 
or adversely affect the foundations or “pillars of support” of any existing tower.  These 
foundations always extend beyond the base area of the existing tower and foundation 
(“pillar of support”) drawings can be obtained via the Asset Protection Team at Warwick. 
 
 
To view the Development Near Lines Documents. Please use the link below: 
http://www.nationalgrid.com/uk/LandandDevelopment/SC/devnearohl final/ 
 
To view the National Grid Policy's for our Sense of Place Document. Please use the link below: 
http://www.nationalgrid.com/uk/LandandDevelopment/DDC/ 
 
National Grid Gas Transmission  
 
National Grid has a high pressure gas transmission pipeline located within or in close proximity to 
the proposed order limits. The high pressure gas pipeline located within this area is: 
 
� 
FM05 – Yelverton to Stowmarket 
 
The following compressor substation is also located within or in close proximity to the proposed 
order limits:  
 
• 
Diss Compressor Station 7228 
 
These assets are also shown on the enclosed plan. 
 
National Grid Gas Distribution 
 
In addition, National Grid has the following gas distribution assets located within or in close 
proximity to the proposed order limits: 
 
� 
Gas mains operating at high, intermediate and medium pressure. 
 
Specific Comments – Gas Infrastructure 
 
The following points should be taken into consideration: 
 
� 
National Grid has a Deed of Grant of Easement for each pipeline, which prevents the 
erection of permanent / temporary buildings, or structures, change to existing ground 
levels, storage of materials etc.  
 
National Grid house 
Warwick Technology Park 
Gallows Hill, Warwick 
CV34 6DA 
 
National Grid is a trading name for: 
National Grid is  a trading name for: 
National Grid Electricity Transmission plc 
National Grid Gas plc 
Registered Office: 1-3 Strand, London WC2N 5EH 
Registered Office: 1-3 Strand, London WC2N 5EH 
Registered in England and Wales, No 2366977 
Registered in England and Wales, No 2006000 
 
 
Pipeline Crossings: 
 
• 
Where existing roads cannot be used, construction traffic should ONLY cross the pipeline 
at previously agreed locations.  
 
• 
The pipeline shall be protected, at the crossing points, by temporary rafts constructed at 
ground level. The third party shall review ground conditions, vehicle types and crossing 
frequencies to determine the type and construction of the raft required.  
 
• 
The type of raft shall be agreed with National Grid prior to installation. 
 
• 
No protective measures including the installation of concrete slab protection shall be 
installed over or near to the National Grid pipeline without the prior permission of National 
Grid.  
 
• 
National Grid will need to agree the material, the dimensions and method of installation of 
the proposed protective measure.  
 
• 
The method of installation shall be confirmed through the submission of a formal written 
method statement from the contractor to National Grid. 
 
• 
Please be aware that written permission is required before any works commence within the 
National Grid easement strip. 
 
• 
A National Grid representative shall monitor any works within close proximity to the 
pipeline to comply with National Grid specification T/SP/SSW22. 
• 
A Deed of Indemnity is required for any crossing of the easement 
 
Cables Crossing: 
 
• 
Cables may cross the pipeline at perpendicular angle to the pipeline i.e. 90 degrees. 
 
• 
A National Grid representative shall supervise any cable crossing of a pipeline. 
 
• 
Clearance must be at least 600mm above or below the pipeline. 
 
• 
Impact protection slab should be laid between the cable and pipeline if cable crossing is 
above the pipeline. 
 
• 
A Deed of Indemnity is required for any cable crossing the easement. 
 
• 
Where a new service is to cross over the pipeline a clearance distance of 0.6 metres 
between the crown of the pipeline and underside of the service should be maintained. If 
this cannot be achieved the service shall cross below the pipeline with a clearance 
distance of 0.6 metres. 
 
General Notes on Pipeline Safety: 
• 
You should be aware of the Health and Safety Executives guidance document HS(G) 47 
"Avoiding Danger from Underground Services", and National Grid’s specification for Safe 
Working in the Vicinity of National Grid High Pressure gas pipelines and associated 
installations - requirements for third parties T/SP/SSW22.  
 
National Grid house 
Warwick Technology Park 
Gallows Hill, Warwick 
CV34 6DA 
 
National Grid is a trading name for: 
National Grid is  a trading name for: 
National Grid Electricity Transmission plc 
National Grid Gas plc 
Registered Office: 1-3 Strand, London WC2N 5EH 
Registered Office: 1-3 Strand, London WC2N 5EH 
Registered in England and Wales, No 2366977 
Registered in England and Wales, No 2006000 
 
• 
National Grid will also need to ensure that our pipelines access is maintained during and 
after construction.  
• 
Our pipelines are normally buried to a depth cover of 1.1 metres however; actual depth and 
position must be confirmed on site by trial hole investigation under the supervision of a 
National Grid representative. Ground cover above our pipelines should not be reduced or 
increased. 
 
• 
If any excavations are planned within 3 metres of National Grid High Pressure Pipeline or, 
within 10 metres of an AGI (Above Ground Installation), or if any embankment or dredging 
works are proposed then the actual position and depth of the pipeline must be established 
on site in the presence of a National Grid representative. A safe working method agreed 
prior to any work taking place in order to minimise the risk of damage and ensure the final 
depth of cover does not affect the integrity of the pipeline. 
 
• 
Excavation works may take place unsupervised no closer than 3 metres from the pipeline 
once the actual depth and position has been has been confirmed on site under the 
supervision of a National Grid representative. Similarly, excavation with hand held power 
tools is not permitted within 1.5 metres from our apparatus and the work is undertaken with 
NG supervision and guidance. 
 
To view the SSW22 Document, please use the link below: 
http://www.nationalgrid.com/uk/LandandDevelopment/DDC/GasElectricNW/safeworking.htm 
 
To view the National Grid Policy's for our Sense of Place Document. Please use the link below: 
http://www.nationalgrid.com/uk/LandandDevelopment/DDC/ 
 
To download a copy of the HSE Guidance HS(G) 47, please use the following link: 
http://www.hse.gov.uk/pubns/books/hsg47.htm 
 
Further information in relation to National Grid’s gas transmission pipelines can be accessed via 
the following internet link:  
 
http://www.nationalgrid.com/uk/LandandDevelopment/DDC/gastransmission/gaspipes/ 
 
Further Advice 
 
We would request that the potential impact of the proposed scheme on National Grid’s 
existing assets as set out above is considered in any subsequent reports, including in the 
Environmental Statement, and as part of any subsequent application.  
 
Where the promoter intends to acquire land, extinguish rights, or interfere with any of 
National Grid apparatus protective provisions will be required in a form acceptable to it to 
be included within the DCO.  
 
Where any diversion of apparatus may be required to facilitate a scheme, National Grid is 
unable to give any certainty with the regard to diversions until such time as adequate 
feasibility and conceptual design studies have been undertaken by National Grid.  Further 
information relating to this can be obtained by contacting the email address below.  
 
National Grid requests to be consulted at the earliest stages to ensure that the most 
appropriate protective provisions are included within the DCO application to safeguard the 
 
National Grid house 
Warwick Technology Park 
Gallows Hill, Warwick 
CV34 6DA 
 
National Grid is a trading name for: 
National Grid is  a trading name for: 
National Grid Electricity Transmission plc 
National Grid Gas plc 
Registered Office: 1-3 Strand, London WC2N 5EH 
Registered Office: 1-3 Strand, London WC2N 5EH 
Registered in England and Wales, No 2366977 
Registered in England and Wales, No 2006000 
 
integrity of our apparatus and to remove the requirement for objection.  All consultations 
should be sent to the following: DCOConsultations@nationalgrid.com as well as by post to 
the following address: 
 
The Company Secretary  
1-3 The Strand 
London 
WC2N 5EH 
 
In order to respond at the earliest opportunity National Grid will require the following: 
 
� Draft DCO including the Book of Reference and relevant Land Plans 
� Shape Files or CAD Files for the order limits 
 
I hope the above information is useful. If you require any further information please do not hesitate 
to contact me.  
 
The information in this letter is provided not withstanding any discussions taking place in relation to 
connections with electricity or gas customer services.  
 
Yours faithfully
 
 
 
Marcella Styles 
 
(Submitted Electronically) 
  
 
 
  
Aerial Photography 
 Eagles Enquiry 
 Electricity Tx Assets 
 Cables and Accessories 
 OHL and Towers 
  
400kV 
  
275kV 
  
132kV and Less 
  
Towers 
 Substations and Stations 
 Electricity Tx Capital Schemes
 Gas Tx Assets 
 AGI's 
  
Gas Pipe 
 Gas Site 
  
Transformer Rectifier 
 Land Tenure 
  
Proposed HS2 Route 
 Maps 
1 km  
       1 : 20001 
Background Mapping information has been 
reproduced from the Ordnance Survey map by 
permission of Ordnance Survey on behalf of The 
controller of Her Majesty's Stationery 
Office.©Crown Copyright Ordnance 
Survey.National Grid Electricity - 100024241. 
National Grid Gas -100024886 
  
Produced by 10.34.24.73 08:59 05/06/2013 
  
National Grid UK Transmission. The asset position 
information represented on this map is the 
intellectual propery of National Grid PLC,Warwick 
Technology Park,Warwick,CV346DA 
Page 1 of 1
Print Preview
05/06/2013
http://tmap/t_landndev/commands/printadvanced/print_preview_landscape.asp
From:
To:
Environmental Services; 
cc:
NATS Safeguarding; Alan Ridley; 
Subject:
RE: Progress Power Station - EN010060 - Scoping Consultation
Date:
22 May 2013 13:11:17
Dear Sir/Madam
 
NATS has no comments to make on the above referenced Scoping Consultation.
 
Regards
S. Rossi
NATS Safeguarding Office
 
 
 
 
Mr Sacha Rossi
ATC Systems Safeguarding Engineer 
 
’: 01489 444 205
*:
  
 
NATS Safeguarding
4000 Parkway,
Whiteley, PO15 7FL
 
http://www.nats.co.uk/windfarms
 
Page 1 of 8 
Date: 
11 June 2013 
Our ref:  86912 
Your ref: 130517_EN010060_1803507 
  
 
Alan Ridley 
3/18 Eagle Wing 
Temple Quay House 
2 The Square 
Bristol, BS1 6PN 
 
BY EMAIL ONLY 
 
 
 Customer Services 
 Hornbeam House 
 Crewe Business Park 
 Electra Way 
 Crewe 
 Cheshire 
 CW1 6GJ 
 
 T 0300 060 3900 
  
 
Dear Mr Ridley  
 
INFRASTRUCTURE PLANNING (ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT) 
REGULATIONS 2009 SI 2263 (as amended) (the EIA Regulations)  
PROPOSED Progress Power Station (the project)  
PROPOSAL BY Progress Power Limited (PPL) (the applicant) 
 
 
Thank you for seeking our advice on the scope of the Environmental Statement (ES) in your 
consultation dated 17 May 2013 which we received on the same date. Natural England is a non-
departmental public body.  Our statutory purpose is to ensure that the natural environment is 
conserved, enhanced, and managed for the benefit of present and future generations, thereby 
contributing to sustainable development. 
 
Case law1 and guidance2 has stressed the need for a full set of environmental information to be 
available for consideration prior to a decision being taken on whether or not to grant planning 
permission. Annex A to this letter provides Natural England‟s advice on the scope of the  
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) for this development. Should the proposal be amended in 
a way which significantly affects its impact on the natural environment then, in accordance with 
Section 4 of the Natural Environment and Rural Communities Act 2006, Natural England should be 
consulted again. 
 
We would be happy to comment further should the need arise but if in the meantime you have any 
queries please do not hesitate to contact us. For any queries relating to the specific advice in this 
letter only please contact Alison Collins on 01284 735236. For any new consultations, or to provide 
further information on this consultation please send your correspondences to 
consultations@naturalengland.org.uk. We really value your feedback to help us improve the service 
we offer. We have attached a feedback form to this letter and welcome any comments you might 
have about our service.  
 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
Alison Collins 
Land Use Operations Cambridge 
 
 
 
                                                
1 Harrison, J in R. v. Cornwall County Council ex parte Hardy (2001) 
2 Note on Environmental Impact Assessment Directive for Local Planning Authorities Office of the Deputy Prime 
Minister (April 2004) available from 
http://webarchive.nationalarchives.gov.uk/+/http://www.communities.gov.uk/planningandbuilding/planning/sustaina
bilityenvironmental/environmentalimpactassessment/noteenvironmental/  
Page 2 of 8 
Annex A – Advice related to EIA Scoping Requirements 
 
1. General Principles  
 
Schedule 4 of The Infrastructure Planning (Environmental Impact Assessment) Regulations 
2009  (as amended), sets out the necessary information to assess impacts on the natural 
environment to be included in an Environmental Statement, specifically: 
 
A description of the development, including in particular 
 
(a) a description of the physical characteristics of the whole development and the land-
use requirements during the construction and operational phases; 
(b) a description of the main characteristics of the production processes, for instance, 
nature 
and quantity of the materials used; 
(c) an estimate, by type and quantity, of expected residues and emissions (water, air and 
soil pollution, noise, vibration, light, heat, radiation, etc) resulting from the operation of 
the proposed development. 
 
An outline of the main alternatives studied by the applicant and an indication of the main 
reasons for the applicant‟s choice, taking into account the environmental effects. 
 
A description of the aspects of the environment likely to be significantly affected by the 
development, including, in particular, population, fauna, flora, soil, water, air, climatic factors, 
material assets, including the architectural and archaeological heritage, landscape and the 
interrelationship between the above factors. 
 
A description of the likely significant effects of the development on the environment, which 
should cover the direct effects and any indirect, secondary, cumulative, short, medium and 
longterm, permanent and temporary, positive and negative effects of the development, resulting 
from: 
 
(a) the existence of the development; 
(b) the use of natural resources; 
(c) the emission of pollutants, the creation of nuisances and the elimination of waste, and 
the description by the applicant of the forecasting methods used to assess the effects on 
the environment. 
 
A description of the measures envisaged to prevent, reduce and where possible offset any 
significant adverse effects on the environment. 
 
A non-technical summary of the information provided under paragraphs above. 
 
An indication of any difficulties (technical deficiencies or lack of know-how) encountered by the 
applicant in compiling the required information. 
 
It will be important for any assessment to consider the potential cumulative effects of this 
proposal, including all supporting infrastructure, with other similar proposals and a thorough 
assessment of the „in combination‟ effects of the proposed development with any existing 
developments and current applications.  A full consideration of the implications of the whole 
scheme should be included in the ES.  All supporting infrastructure should be included within the 
assessment. 
 
 
2. Biodiversity and Geology 
 
2.1 Ecological Aspects of an Environmental Statement  
 
Natural England advises that the potential impact of the proposal upon features of nature 
conservation interest and opportunities for habitat creation/enhancement should be included 
Page 3 of 8 
within this assessment in accordance with appropriate guidance on such matters.  Guidelines for 
Ecological Impact Assessment (EcIA) have been developed by the Institute of Ecology and 
Environmental Management (IEEM) and are available on their website.  EcIA is the process of 
identifying, quantifying and evaluating the potential impacts of defined actions on ecosystems or 
their components.  EcIA may be carried out as part of the EIA process or to support other forms 
of environmental assessment or appraisal. 
 
The National Planning Policy Framework sets out guidance in S.118 on how to take account of 
biodiversity interests in planning decisions and the framework that local authorities should 
provide to assist developers.  
 
2.2 Internationally and Nationally Designated Sites 
 
The ES should therefore thoroughly assess the potential for the proposal to affect  designated 
sites.  European sites, e.g. designated Special Areas of Conservation (SACs) and Special 
Protection Areas (SPAs), fall within the scope of the Conservation of Habitats and Species 
Regulations 2010 (as amended). In  addition paragraph 169 of the National Planning Policy 
Framework requires that potential SPAs, possible SACs, listed or proposed Ramsar sites, and 
any site identified as being necessary to compensate for adverse impacts on classified, potential 
or possible SPAs, SACs and Ramsar sites be treated in the same way as classified sites.  
 
Under Regulation 61 of the Conservation of Habitats and Species Regulations 2010 an 
Appropriate Assessment needs to be undertaken in respect of any plan or project which is (a) 
likely to have a significant effect on a European site (either alone or in combination with other 
plans or projects) and (b) not directly connected with or necessary to the management of the 
site.  
 
Should a Likely Significant Effect on a European/Internationally designated site be identified or 
be uncertain, the competent authority (in this case the Secretary of State for Department of 
Energy and Climate Change) may need to prepare an Appropriate Assessment, in addition to 
consideration of impacts through the EIA process.  
 
2.3 Sites of Special Scientific Interest (SSSIs) and sites of European or international 
importance (Special Areas of Conservation, Special Protection Areas and Ramsar sites) 
 
The development site is within 10km of the following nationally designated nature conservation 
sites:  
 
 
Redgrave & Lopham Fens SSSI  
 
Redgrave & Lopham Fen National Nature Reserve 
 
Wortham Ling SSSI 
 
Burgate Wood SSSI 
 
Gypsy Camp Meadows, Thrandeston SSSI 
 
Major Farm, Braiseworth SSSI 
 
Hoxne Brick Pit SSSI 
 
Westhall Wood and Meadow SSSI  
 
Shelfanger Meadows SSSI 
 
Further information on these SSSIs and their special interest features can be found at 
www.natureonthemap.naturalengland.org.uk . The Environmental Statement should include a 
full assessment of the direct and indirect effects of the development on the features of special 
interest within these sites and should identify such mitigation measures as may be required in 
order to avoid, minimise or reduce any adverse significant effects. 
 
The development site is within 10km of the following internationally and European designated 
nature conservation sites:  
 
 
Redgrave & South Lopham Fens Ramsar site 
 
Waveney & Little Ouse Valley Fens SAC 
Page 4 of 8 
 
Natura 2000 Network site conservation objectives are available on our internet site here 
 
In this case the proposal is not directly connected with, or necessary to, the management of a 
European site. In our view it is likely that it will have a significant effect on internationally 
designated sites and therefore will require assessment under the Habitats Regulations. We 
recommend that there should be a separate section of the Environmental Statement to address 
impacts upon European and Ramsar sites entitled „Information for Habitats Regulations 
Assessment‟.  
 
The list of issues that the „Information for Habitats Regulations Assessment‟ should cover are, 
but not exclusively limited to, the following assessments on the internationally designated site 
features: 
 
 
the likely impacts of the gaseous emissions to air from the operation of the proposed 
power generation plant 
 
the likely impacts of any increased water abstraction and waste water discharge, both 
during construction and operation, of the proposed power generation plant and gas 
connection. 
 
Air quality in the UK has improved over recent decades but air pollution remains a significant 
issue; for example over 97% of sensitive habitat area in England is predicted to exceed the 
critical loads for ecosystem protection from atmospheric nitrogen deposition (England 
Biodiversity Strategy, Defra 2011).  A priority action in the England Biodiversity Strategy is to 
reduce air pollution impacts on biodiversity.  The planning system plays a key role in 
determining the location of developments which may give rise to pollution, either directly or from 
traffic generation, and hence planning decisions can have a significant impact on the quality of 
air, water and land.   
 
In terms of assessing the impact on air quality, we advise that a radius of 10km around the 
application site is searched for international and European designated sites (i.e. SPAs, SACs 
and Ramsar sites) and a radius of 2km for nationally designated sites (i.e. SSSIs).  Non-
statutory local sites (e.g. County Wildlife Sites) near to the application should also be 
considered. The assessment should take account of the risks of air pollution and how these can 
be managed or reduced.  Further information on air pollution impacts and the sensitivity of 
different habitats/designated sites can be found on the Air Pollution Information System 
(www.apis.ac.uk).  Further information on air pollution modelling and assessment can be found 
on the Environment Agency website. 
 
2.4  Regionally and Locally Important Sites 
 
The EIA will need to consider any impacts upon local wildlife and geological sites. Local sites 
are identified by the local Wildlife Trust, geoconservation group or a local forum established for 
the purposes of identifying and selecting local sites. They are of county importance for wildlife or 
geodiversity. The Environmental Statement should therefore include an assessment of the likely 
impacts on the wildlife and geodiversity interests of such sites. The assessment should include 
proposals for mitigation of any impacts and if appropriate, compensation measures. Contact the 
Suffolk Biological Records Centre and Norfolk Biodiversity Information Service for further 
information.  
 
2.5  Protected Species  
 
Protected species are species protected by the Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981 (as 
amended) and by the Conservation of Habitats and Species Regulations 2010. 
 
The ES should assess the impact of all phases of the proposal on protected species (including, 
for example, great crested newts, reptiles, birds, water voles, badgers and bats).  Natural 
England does not hold comprehensive information regarding the locations of species protected 
by law, but advises on the procedures and legislation relevant to such species. Records of 
protected species should be sought from appropriate local biological record centres, nature 
Page 5 of 8 
conservation organisations, groups and individuals; and consideration should be given to the 
wider context of the site for example in terms of habitat linkages and protected species 
populations in the wider area, to assist in the impact assessment. 
 
The conservation of species protected by law is explained in Part IV and Annex A of 
Government Circular 06/2005 Biodiversity and Geological Conservation: Statutory Obligations 
and their Impact within the Planning System.  The area likely to be affected by the proposal 
should be thoroughly surveyed by competent ecologists at appropriate times of year for relevant 
species and the survey results, impact assessments and appropriate accompanying mitigation 
strategies included as part of the ES. 
 
In order to provide this information there may be a requirement for a survey at a particular time 
of year. Surveys should always be carried out in optimal survey time periods and to current 
guidance by suitably qualified and where necessary, licensed, consultants. Natural England has 
adopted standing advice for protected species which includes links to guidance on survey and 
mitigation. 
 
2.5 Habitats and Species of Principal Importance 
 
The ES should thoroughly assess the impact of the proposals on habitats and/or species listed 
as as „Habitats and Species of Principal Importance‟ within the England Biodiversity List, 
published under the requirements of S41 of the Natural Environment and Rural Communities 
(NERC) Act 2006.  Section 40 of the NERC Act 2006 places a general duty on all public 
authorities, including local planning authorities, to conserve and enhance biodiversity.  Further 
information on this duty is available in the Defra publication „Guidance for Local Authorities on 
Implementing the Biodiversity Duty‟. 
 
Government Circular 06/2005 states that Biodiversity Action Plan (BAP) species and habitats, 
„are capable of being a material consideration…in the making of planning decisions‟.  Natural 
England therefore advises that survey, impact assessment and mitigation proposals for 
Habitats and Species of Principal Importance should be included in the ES.  Consideration 
should also be given to those species and habitats included in the relevant Local BAP.  
 
Natural England advises that a habitat survey is carried out on the site, in order to identify any 
important habitats present. In addition, ornithological, botanical and invertebrate surveys should 
be carried out at appropriate times in the year, to establish whether any scarce or priority 
species are present. The Environmental Statement should include details of: 
 
Any historical data for the site affected by the proposal (e.g. from previous surveys); 
 
Additional surveys carried out as part of this proposal; 
 
The habitats and species present; 
 
The status of these habitats and species (e.g. whether BAP priority habitat); 
 
The direct and indirect effects of the development upon those habitats and species; 
 
Full details of any mitigation or compensation that might be required. 
 
The development should seek if possible to avoid adverse impact on sensitive areas for wildlife 
within the site, and if possible provide opportunities for overall wildlife gain.  
 
The record centre for the relevant Local Authorities should be able to provide the relevant 
information on the location and type of BAP habitat for the area under consideration. 
 
2.6 Contacts for Local Records 
 
Natural England does not hold local information on local sites, local landscape character and 
local or national biodiversity priority habitats and species.  We recommend that you seek further 
information from the appropriate bodies (which may include the local records centre, the local 
wildlife trust or other recording society and a local landscape characterisation document).  
 
      
 
Page 6 of 8 
3. Landscape Character  
 
3.1  Landscape and visual impacts 
 
Natural England would wish to see details of local landscape character areas mapped at a 
scale appropriate to the development site as well as any relevant management plans or 
strategies pertaining to the area. The EIA should include assessments of visual effects on the 
surrounding area and landscape together with any physical effects of the development, such as 
changes in topography. The European Landscape Convention places a duty on Local Planning 
Authorities to consider the impacts of landscape when exercising their functions. 
 
The EIA should include a full assessment of the potential impacts of the development on local 
landscape character using landscape assessment methodologies. We encourage the use of 
Landscape Character Assessment (LCA), based on the good practice guidelines produced 
jointly by the Landscape Institute and Institute of Environmental Management & Assessment in 
2013 (3rd Edition). LCA provides a sound basis for guiding, informing and understanding the 
ability of any location to accommodate change and to make positive proposals for conserving, 
enhancing or regenerating character, as detailed proposals are developed.  
 
Natural England supports the publication Guidelines for Landscape and Visual Impact 
Assessment, produced by the Landscape Institute and the Institute of Environmental 
Management & Assessment  in 2013 (3rd edition). The methodology set out is almost 
universally used for landscape and visual impact assessment. 
 
In order to foster high quality development that respects, maintains, or enhances, local 
landscape character and distinctiveness, Natural England encourages all new development to 
consider the character and distinctiveness of the area, with the siting and design of the 
proposed development reflecting local design characteristics and, wherever possible, using 
local materials. The Environmental Impact Assessment process should detail the measures to 
be taken to ensure the building design will be of a high standard, as well as detail of layout 
alternatives together with justification of the selected option in terms of landscape impact and 
benefit.  
 
The assessment should also include the cumulative effect of the development with other 
relevant existing or proposed developments in the area.  In this context Natural England 
advises that the cumulative impact assessment should include other proposals currently at 
Scoping stage.  Due to the overlapping timescale of their progress through the planning system, 
cumulative impact of the proposed development with those proposals currently at Scoping 
stage would be likely to be a material consideration at the time of determination of the planning 
application. 
 
The assessment should refer to the relevant National Character Areas which can be found on 
our website.  Links for Landscape Character Assessment at a local level are also available on 
the same page. 
 
3.2  Heritage Landscapes 
 
You should consider whether there is land in the area affected by the development which 
qualifies for conditional exemption from capital taxes on the grounds of outstanding scenic, 
scientific or historic interest. These are considered to be designated landscapes of national 
importance and the impact of your plan on these should be assessed where appropriate. An up-
to-date list may be obtained at www.hmrc.gov.uk/heritage/lbsearch.htm and further information 
can be found on Natural England‟s landscape pages here.  
 
 
4. Access and Recreation 
 
Natural England encourages any proposal to incorporate measures to help encourage people to 
access the countryside for quiet enjoyment. Measures such as reinstating existing footpaths 
Page 7 of 8 
together with the creation of new footpaths and bridleways are to be encouraged. Links to other 
green networks and, where appropriate, urban fringe areas should also be explored to help 
promote the creation of wider green infrastructure. Relevant aspects of local authority green 
infrastructure strategies should be incorporated where appropriate.  
 
The EIA should consider potential impacts on access land, public open land and rights of way in 
the vicinity of the development. We also recommend reference to the relevant Right of Way 
Improvement Plans (ROWIP) to identify public rights of way within or adjacent to the proposed 
site that should be maintained or enhanced. 
 
 
5. Soil and Agricultural Land Quality  
 
Impacts from the development should be considered in light of the Government's policy for the 
protection of the best and most versatile (BMV) agricultural land as set out in paragraph 112 of 
the NPPF. We also recommend that soils should be considered under a more general heading 
of sustainable use of land and the ecosystem services they provide as a natural resource in line 
with paragraph 109 of the NPPF. 
 
Soil is a finite resource that fulfils many important functions and services (ecosystem services) 
for society, for example as a growing medium for food, timber and other crops, as a store for 
carbon and water, as a reservoir of biodiversity and as a buffer against pollution. It is therefore 
important that the soil resources are protected and used sustainably. 
 
The applicant should consider the following issues as part of the Environmental Statement: 
 
(a) The degree to which soils are going to be disturbed/harmed as part of this development 
and whether „best and most versatile‟ agricultural land is involved. This may require a 
detailed survey if one is not already available. For further information on the availability 
of existing agricultural land classification (ALC) information see www.magic.gov.uk. 
Natural England Technical Information Note 049 - Agricultural Land Classification: 
protecting the best and most versatile agricultural land also contains useful background 
information. 
 
(b) If required, an agricultural land classification and soil survey of the land should be 
undertaken. This should normally be at a detailed level, e.g. one auger boring per 
hectare, (or more detailed for a small site) supported by pits dug in each main soil type to 
confirm the physical characteristics of the full depth of the soil resource, i.e. 1.2 metres. 
 
(c) The Environmental Statement should provided details of how any adverse impacts on 
can be minimised. Further guidance is contained in the Defra Construction Code of 
for the Sustainable Use of Soil on Development Sites. 
 
 
6. Climate Change Adaptation 
 
The England Biodiversity Strategy published by Defra establishes principles for the 
consideration of biodiversity and the effects of climate change.  The ES should reflect these 
principles and identify how the development‟s effects on the natural environment will be 
influenced by climate change, and how ecological networks will be maintained. The NPPF 
requires that the planning system should contribute to the enhancement of the natural 
environment “by establishing coherent ecological networks that are more resilient to current and 
future pressures” (NPPF Para 109), which should be demonstrated through the ES. 
 
 
7. Cumulative and in-combination effects 
 
A full consideration of the implications of the whole scheme should be included in the ES.  All 
supporting infrastructure should be included within the assessment. 
Page 8 of 8 
 
The ES should include an impact assessment to identify, describe and evaluate the effects that 
are likely to result from the project in combination with other projects and activities that are 
being, have been or will be carried out. The following types of projects should be included in 
such an assessment. (Subject to available information): 
 
a. Existing completed projects 
b. Approved but uncompleted projects 
c. Ongoing activities 
d. Plans or projects for which an application has been made and which are under 
consideration by the consenting authorities 
e. Plans and projects which are reasonably foreseeable, ie projects for which an application 
has not yet been submitted, but which are likely to progress before completion of the 
development and for which sufficient information is available to assess the likelihood of 
cumulative and in-combination effects.  
 
 
 
From:
)
To:
Environmental Services; 
Subject:
Infrastructure Planning (Environmental Impact Assessment) - Progress Power Station
Date:
10 June 2013 11:40:33
FAO Mr Alan Ridley
 
Your Ref:  130517_EN010060_1803507
 
Thank you for your letter dated 17 May 2013 asking for our comments regarding the 
proposed Progress Power Station by Progress Power Limited.  We have no comments and 
have asked the relevant Local Authority Director of Public Health to respond direct.
 
Your sincerely
Elaine Matthews
 
 
Elaine Matthews
Temporary PA to Peter Wightman, Interim Commissioning Director
 
East Anglia Area Team
NHS England 
CPC1, Capital Business Park, Fulbourn, Cambs, CB21 5XE
01223 708714
www.england.nhs.uk
 
 
Norfolk County Council – Response to:- 
 
Progress Power Plant Project (Eye) – EIA Scoping Report 
June 2013 
 
1.  
Preface 
1.1. 
 
The officer-level comments below are made on a with out prejudice basis 
and the County Council reserves the right to make further comments on the 
emerging application.  
2.  
Energy Infrastructure Comments 
2.1. 
 
The Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) will need to address any 
cross boundary impact associated with the proposed development. In 
particular the EIA will need to show where grid connection will take place 
and whether this will be in Norfolk. Any connection cabling to the grid from 
the proposed new power station should be placed underground in order to 
minimise any potential visual/landscape impact. 
2.2. 
 
The EIA will need to indicate/consider whether there would be any need for 
the upgrading of the existing 400 KV power lines in the area as a 
consequence of the proposed development. 
2.3. 
 
In addition the EIA will need to address whether there is a need for any 
further ancillary development such as electricity sub-stations and 
switchyards etc beyond the immediate proposal site. The location and 
impact of any ancillary development will need to be fully assessed in the 
EIA. 
2.4. 
 
In the event that new power lines are needed (or existing power lines up-
graded) or any other infrastructure needs up-grading (e.g. sub-station) there 
would need to be a description of the route(s) including plans at an 
appropriate scale incorporating, for example: 
 
• an assessment of their impact (e.g. photomontages etc).  
• details of temporary construction compounds 
• identification of any sensitive features along the route.  
2.5. 
 
The EIA will need to indicate the off site route and impact associated with 
the gas pipeline together with any mitigation is proposed. 
2.6. 
 
If you have any general queries with any of the above comments please call 
or Stephen Faulkner (Principal Planner) email on 01603 
 
 
3.  
Landscape 
3.1. 
 
The ES/EIA would need to provide: 
• An assessment of the impact of the development on the landscape, 
including landscape in neighbouring counties where they fall within the 
zone of visual influence; 
• An assessment of the visual intrusion caused by the development which 
should include the preparation of a Zone of Visual Intrusion plan/map; 
• Photomontages illustrating the impact of the development; 
• An assessment of the cumulative impact; 
• An assessment of the impact of the development on the heritage 
landscape.  
4.  
Transport and Landscape Issues 
4.1. 
 
The ES/EIA will need to evaluate the impact on the landscape of upgrading 
existing roads and creating new access routes in the construction and 
operational phase of the project (including enhanced signage) as all of this 
can sub-urbanise a rural landscape.  It will also need to consider how these 
should be mitigated, perhaps through removal and reinstatement at the end 
of the project. Please also refer to Highway - Traffic and Access section. 
 
5.  
Tourism and Landscape Issues 
 
5.1. 
 
The ES/EIA will need to address the impact of the development on tourism, 
including tourism occurring in neighbouring counties, which may be affected 
if the natural landscape is altered sufficiently. 
 
5.2. 
 
Ecology 
5.3. 
 
The ES/EIA will need to address the potential impact on Ecology, including 
in particular, impact on the following interests: 
• designated sites e.g. Sites of Special Scientific Interest (SSSI), National 
Nature Reserves, Special Protection Areas (SPA), Special Area for 
Conservation (SAC), County Wildlife Sites (CWS) etc; and 
• Birds. 
 
The need to consider cumulative impact is a requirement of the EIA 
process. This is of particular importance when considering ecological 
impacts.  Projects to be incorporated in such an assessment must include 
those in the past, present and foreseeable future.  Projects to be 
incorporated in such an assessment must include not only other potential 
wind farms but also other types of project taking place in the marine 
environment or onshore so that all elements of the infrastructure are 
assessed. 
 
For further information on landscape and ecology matters please call Heidi 
Thompson on 01603 222773. 
 
6.  
Socio-economic 
6.1. 
 
An economic assessment ought to be carried as part of the EIA considering 
how the project could utilise existing the supply chain capabilities in Norfolk, 
which is home to the Hethel Engineering Centre and other engineering and 
manufacturing businesses. 
For further information please call David Dukes (Economic Development 
Manager) on 01603 223142. 
7.  
Highway – Traffic and Access  
7.1. 
 
The comments below relate to the proposed power plant and any ancillary 
facilities such as sub-stations; cabling routes; and transporting and 
servicing of equipment. 
 
1. Vehicles – define the nature of the traffic likely to be generated. In 
addition for the largest vehicles proposed to use each access route(s) 
this must include: -  
• minimum width (including unhindered horizontal space) 
• vertical clearance 
• axle weight restriction 
 
2. Access & Access Route – description of the route (including plans at an 
appropriate scale incorporating swept-path surveys).  Assessment to 
include site inspection and details of contact with the appropriate 
Highway Authority (including the Highways Agency for Trunk Roads 
where applicable). In addition: - 
• details of any staff/traffic movements/access routes; 
• detailed plans of site access/es incorporating sightline provision 
• confirmation of any weight restrictions applicable on the route together 
with details of contact with the relevant Bridge Engineer 
• overhead/ underground equipment – details of liaison with statutory 
undertakers - listing statutory undertakers consulted together with a copy 
of their responses 
• details of any road signs or other street furniture along each route that 
may need to be temporarily removed/relocated 
 
3. Impacts during construction – are any special requirements needed 
and if so provide details e.g.:- 
• timing of construction works 
• removal of parked vehicles along the route(s) – full details will need to be 
provided – including whether or not alternative parking arrangements are 
being offered or bus services provided in lieu of potential loss of ability to 
use private cars 
• removal and reinstatement of hedgerows – since these are usually in 
private ownership has contact been made with the owners.  Has formal 
legal agreement been reached or are negotiations pending/ in progress 
• identification of the highway boundary along the construction traffic route 
together with verification from the Highway Authority  
• confirmation of whether the identified route involves the acquisition of 
third party land and if so has consent been given, (verbal or has a formal 
legal agreement been entered into)  
• confirmation of any required third party easements – e.g. will construction 
vehicles need to overhang ditches (these are usually in private 
ownership), private hedges or open land adjacent to the highway. If so, 
details of consent (verbal or a formal written agreement) 
• any modifications required to the alignment of the carriageway or 
verges/over-runs 
• identification of sensitive features along route 
• trimming of overhead trees – has a survey been undertaken to identify 
trees that will need to be trimmed and if so what steps have been 
undertaken to identify the owners of those trees 
• confirmation of whether any affected trees are covered by a tree 
preservation order 
• confirmation of whether any of the verges along the route(s) are 
classified as SSSI or roadside Nature Reserve status. If so, detail any 
impact 
• confirmation of any extraordinary maintenance agreement/s required by 
the Highway Authority 
 
4. Cabling route/grid connection – description of the route/s including 
plans at an appropriate scale, incorporating, for example: 
• assessment to include site inspection and details of contact with the 
appropriate Highway Authority (including the Highways Agency for Trunk 
Roads where applicable) 
• traffic details of grid connection enabling works 
• NOTE – only statutory undertakers are allowed to place 
longitudinal apparatus – including cables – within land forming 
part of the public highway. 
 
5. Impacts during operation 
• details of type and frequency of vehicle to be used to service the 
facility/structure(s) when in operation 
• details of any long-term highway impact e.g. will trees and hedgerows 
need additional trimming to allow access for service vehicles 
• position of structures relative to public highways and/or public rights of 
way – the minimum distance of which should be no less than 50m 
• assessment of any impact on adjacent/affected public rights of way e.g. 
horses and pedestrians – e.g. with a wind farm are the blades positioned 
in close proximity to bridleways such that flicker may startle horses 
 
6. Impacts during decommissioning – define the expected life span of 
the facility/structure(s). 
• provide details of decommissioning works including an assessment of 
whether or not the structure is to be scrapped - i.e. can it be broken up 
on site and removed or will it require the same logistical process as initial 
construction. 
For further Information on highway related matters I would suggest you 
contact John Shaw (Senior Engineer) on 01603 
. 
 
If you have any general queries with any of the above comments please call 
or Stephen Faulkner (Principal Planner) email on 01603 
 
  
From:
To:
Environmental Services; 
Subject:
130517_EN010060_1803507
Date:
14 June 2013 09:57:55
Dear Sir/Madam
 
Planning Inspectorate ref: 130517_EN010060_1803507
LPA ref: ENQ/2013/1089
 
Infrastructure Planning (Environmental Impact Assessment) 
Regulations 2009 SI 2263 (as amended) (the EIA Regulations)
Proposed Progress Power Station (the project)
Proposal by Progress Power Limited (PPL) (the applicant)
 
Thank you for your letter of 17 May 2013 consulting South Norfolk Council on the above. 
 
I can confirm that South Norfolk Council do not have any comments. 
 
Regards
 
Michelle Lyon
Senior Planning Officer
 
South Norfolk Council
Swan Lane
Long Stratton
Norwich
NR15 2XE
 
Direct Number:  01508 5
Email: 
Web address: www.south-norfolk.gov.uk
Facebook: www.facebook.com/southnorfolkcouncil
 
From:
To:
Environmental Services; 
Subject:
Progress Power Station, Eye Airfield, Suffolk (your ref 130517_EN010060_1803507)
Date:
12 June 2013 14:07:56
For the attention of Alan Ridley 
Dear Mr Ridley, 
I refer to your letter of 17 May 2013 in respect of the proposed gas fired power station proposed for Eye 
Airfield Industrial Estate.
I can confirm that this Council has no comments to make on this Scoping request given the distance of 
the development site from our administrative boundary and hence the limited potential impacts on our 
resident population.
Regards, 
Bob Chamberlain  
Principal Planner (Major Projects)  
Suffolk Coastal District Council  
01394-444429. 
 
 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dear Mr Ridley 
Infrastructure Planning (Environmental Impact Assessment) Regulations 2009 SI 
2263 (as amended) (the EIA Regulations) Proposed Progress Power Station (the 
project) Proposal by Progress Power Limited (the applicant) -  Response to Scoping 
Report of Suffolk County Council 
Scope of the Project  
1. The scope of the project as defined in the Scoping Report is quite broad; the choice of 
technology is yet to be determined and it is not clear whether consent will be sought for 
all available technologies, or simply one of these. Description of a number of potential 
elements of the project is brief to non-existent.  
2. For example the description of the substation includes reference to only a single 
parameter (height) (paragraph 3.5.7), the infrastructure required for an underground 
connection is not described other than by reference to a “sealing end compound” 
(1.2.10)  and most of the individual elements of the permanent development as set out 
in Figure 2 are described little, if at all. The connection to the gas network also needs to 
be clarified in terms of the description and location of the Minimum Offtake Connection 
(MOC) and Pig Trap facilities (PTF). Specifically more detail on the size of equipment 
in both is required and confirmation of their whereabouts – the PTF is described as 
being onsite (3.4.27), but does not appear in Figure 2. A further unknown is whether 
the electrical connection will be part of the Development Consent Order (DCO) or not. 
3. While the Rochdale Envelope can be used to address a degree of uncertainty, it should 
not be used so broadly as for the applicant to be able to deliver materially different 
projects. It is also important to note that what is a worst case in one topic area, may not 
be so in another, for example a high stack would be visually more intrusive, but may 
have air quality benefits. 
4. The variations described in Table 3.1 are quite significant in themselves (as the 
applicant recognises – see paragraph 3.3.17) and these only relate to the physical 
parameters of the completed building. It is not clear how different the impacts of the 
project during construction (this phase varying from 12-36 months (paragraph 3.3.33)) 
Your Ref: 130517_EN010060_1803507 
Our Ref:  
Date: 13th June 2013 
Enquiries to: Michael Wilks 
Tel: 01473 264064  
 
Email: 
  
 
 
Mr Alan Ridley 
3/18 Eagle Wing 
Temple Quay House 
2 The Square 
Bristol 
BS1 6PN  
 
Page 2 of 12 
will be in terms of transport and socio-economics (eg size/duration of workforce and 
indirect impacts on accommodation/tourism etc – see below for more detail). Equally 
more detail on implications of technology choice on operating requirements, such as 
water usage and noise is required. 
5. While SCC understands that the current uncertainty is in part related to factors beyond 
the applicant’s immediate control, the range and scale of impacts is correspondingly 
broad and thus SCC would welcome both further detail and early refinement of the 
project so that attention is focussed on the actual project, rather than a range of 
permutations.  
6. This will greatly facilitate the consultation process for all and in particular the 
identification of proportionate mitigation measures and residual impacts. Good design 
is a fundamental principle of the National Policy Statements (see for example EN-1 
section 4.5), so the earlier stakeholders are able to receive clarity on the parameters of 
the development, the more opportunity there is to develop a scheme, which in their 
view, responds to this requirement. 
Selection of alternatives 
7. It is clear that the applicant is currently considering a number of alternatives, both 
related to the design of the plant itself and the associated electrical connection. In line 
with the Regulations, the relative environmental impacts of these should be presented.  
8. While our strong preference is that the electrical connection is both underground and 
part of the DCO, if it is pursued separately the environmental impacts associated with 
the eventuality that it is either overhead or underground will need to be presented with 
the cumulative impacts with the power station clearly identified (see paragraph 84 
below).  
Planning Policy  
9. We welcome the comments at paragraph 3.3.42 - SCC is keen that every opportunity 
to deliver a CHP ready plant is explored, given the potential scale of development on 
the airfield. The additional infrastructure required to deliver a CHP-ready plant should 
be clarified and assessed as appropriate. 
10. The Scoping Report makes reference to Suffolk Waste Core Strategy Policy WCS4 
“Allocated sites for strategic waste treatment facilities” and the fact that the 
development would only require 5ha of an 81.35ha site. The Environment Statement 
should also make reference to Waste Core Strategy Policy WDM1 “Safeguarding of 
Waste Management Sites” which includes the sentence “This safeguarding is not 
intended to preclude other forms of development within the Area of Search which do 
not prejudice or would not be prejudiced by a strategic residual waste treatment 
facility.” 
Mitigation 
11. The proposed development is located centrally within a former World War II airfield, the 
entirety of which is identified for development by Mid Suffolk District Council in its Eye 
Airfield Development Brief. It is important therefore that when considering mitigation 
measures in particular, the applicant’s proposals are designed with this in mind and do 
not prejudice the ability of future development to come forward, through proposal of 
bespoke solutions that do not align with the wider requirements of the site. This is likely 
to be particularly relevant to the mitigation associated with landscape & visual, 
transport (including rights of way/sustainable access) and drainage impacts. 
 
Page 3 of 12 
 
Approach to the Environmental Impact Assessment 
12. The structure and layout of the Environmental Statement (ES) appears broadly 
appropriate though some clarity over where particular issues will be considered (see 
below) is needed.  The ES will likely need to consider the likelihood of any accidents on 
site during operation and the associated potential for significant environmental impacts. 
13. A consistent and clear approach to impact appraisal is welcomed, therefore any 
intention to deviate from this should well justified (5.2.2). Further discussions with the 
local authorities around the identification and classification of sensitivity of receptors 
would be appropriate. 
14. It will be important to recognise the linkages across the different topic areas, 
particularly when developing mitigation to ensure that initiatives being undertaken are 
complementary. Measures to minimise noise intrusion for example should also 
consider overlap with design and landscaping considerations. Equally particular forms 
of mitigation, for example developing a locally skilled workforce, would reduce the 
impacts associated with an itinerant workforce on traffic and pressures on tourist 
accommodation as well as providing a positive socio-economic legacy. 
EIA Topics 
Socio-economics 
15. Section 5.12 is not particularly clear on the socio-economic impacts anticipated by the 
applicant, nor how they will be assessed. We are keen to see any potential benefits 
from the development maximised, and note that the Secretary of State will consider 
positively any beneficial provisions made by the developer (EN-1, paragraph 5.12.8). 
Consequently, we welcome the commitment to recruiting (5.12.1) and sourcing goods 
and services (5.12.25) locally and similarly the intention to investigate a mechanism to 
provide benefits ‘beyond jobs’ to the local community (5.12.8). 
16. Based on the Scoping Report, our main concerns are;  
• the demands on the labour force and whether they can be met locally, and if not what 
the applicant proposed to do to address any identified gaps in volume or in particular 
skills. The ES should set out clearly the expected number and nature of employment 
opportunities during each phase of the development. It should relate this to the 
availability of labour in the area and identify how any mismatch between supply (taking 
into account skill levels) and demand will be addressed. 
• the demands on/opportunities within the supply chain. The applicant should assess its 
requirements and evaluate those against the services available locally. In order to 
maximise the extent of any benefits of the development it should seek to use local 
contractors and suppliers as much as possible and therefore look to undertake 
initiatives to develop opportunities for local companies to bid successfully in the 
procurement process by holding supply chain events or similar. 
• the potential impact of any reliance on a mobile workforce for the availability of tourist 
accommodation. Eye is a town with a strong tourism offer (not described in the 
Scoping Report) and the spending patterns of a transitory labour force would be quite 
different to those of tourists, thus this might jeopardise trade for other related tourist 
businesses, such as restaurants and visitor attractions. This needs to be assessed and 
again mitigation proposed. 
 
Page 4 of 12 
• the impact on tourism more broadly. In addition to the specific point above concerning 
tourist accommodation during the construction phase, regard should be had to 
reducing the potential impacts on the tourist industry, both through minimising the 
visual impact of the permanent development (including the electrical connection) but 
also through programming of construction to avoid the peak tourist season. Tourism 
surveys (of tourists and tourism businesses) aimed at better understanding the focuses 
and timing of tourist activity and their use of local accommodation could be helpful to 
anticipate the potential effects and identify relevant mitigation 
• the impacts on the future development of Eye Airfield. As the applicant notes, the 
District Council has produced a development framework for the site. The implications 
of the permanent development for neighbouring landuses should be clarified and if 
necessary assessed. For example there are prescriptions relating to the nature of 
development that can be permitted within the vicinity of facilities such as that 
proposed. The gas and electrical connections will also require wayleaves/safeguarding 
areas which similarly is likely to result in the sterilisation of land. The socio-economic 
consequences of future development restrictions caused by this project should be 
assessed. 
• that the impacts on health are properly assessed. It is not clear where this will be done 
in the ES. The assessment will need to reflect how impacts associated with air quality, 
noise, amenity and transport in particular affect the local population. 
17. In developing mitigation, the applicant should have regard to parallel initiatives being 
undertaken in association with other major infrastructure projects in the locality. It 
should therefore work closely with the Local Authorities and other key stakeholders, for 
example the Federation of Small Businesses and Chambers of Commerce. 
18. In line with Section 5.12 of EN-1 the proposed mitigation for any impacts should be 
included within the application; a reliance on the agreement of mitigation strategies by 
Requirement post-consent will not be acceptable – information should be presented as 
part of the application.  
Landscape and Visual Impact Assessment  
 
Baseline 
19. The baseline as set out in the scoping report does not adequately consider the likely 
visual envelope of the proposal. For example the existing power station stack is 
prominent for a considerable distance to the west of the site and is also visually 
prominent from across the Dove valley to the south-east of the site. As a result vertical 
structures on the airfield have a significant impact on the setting of adjacent 
Conservation Area, part of which is a Special Landscape Area. 
20. Furthermore, there are others stacks and masts in the area, as well as the turbines, 
with which the proposal will create in combination effects. 
Assessment 
21. The proposed desktop review (5.8.24) should include local landscape characterisations 
for both Suffolk (www.suffolklandscape.org.uk) and South Norfolk, (it may also be 
appropriate to refer to the eastern region landscape typology, http://landscape-
east.org.uk/, to achieve cross border consistency). 
22. The range of receptors to be reviewed include; open access land, public rights of way, 
promoted routes, national and regional trails, and promoted cycle routes. Much of this 
 
Page 5 of 12 
information is likely to available via www.discoversuffolk.gov.uk. Definitive map 
information is available from Suffolk County Council. 
23. The scoping report contains a rather premature selection of photo-montage locations 
(5.8.28); these may prove to be appropriate but need to be selected as part of a wider 
discussion of viewpoint locations. While it is appropriate that viewpoints should be 
agreed in advance with Mid Suffolk District Council and SCC, we suggest it would also 
be reasonable given the scale and location of the proposal for South Norfolk District 
Council to be offered the opportunity to comment on this matter. Robin Taylor is the 
Landscape Officer at SNDC. 
24. It is possible that the heritage assessment may require specific viewpoints and perhaps 
photo-montages which are not appropriate to be included in the LVIA. 
25. Although the gas connection may not give rise to significant visual impacts (5.8.4) 
some of the possible routes may sterilise areas identified for strategic landscape 
planting as part of the Eye Airfield Development Framework. It is not clear from the 
Scoping Report what the implications are for the planting regimes above the gas pipe. 
26. Although the landscape and visual impacts of the grid connection would be minimised 
by burial, such a connection (5.8.5) is likely to require a significant way leave which can 
lead to the loss of visually important trees and hedges, such as any crossing of Ley 
Lane for example. Therefore proposals for the use of trenchless engineering 
techniques and other mitigation methods are likely to be required. 
27. The burial of the grid connection would also require a Sealing End Compound and/or 
associated infrastructure which may generate significant impacts on both the 
landscape and visual amenity and the setting of historic assets.  
28. As part of consideration of any overhead connection the option of using the new T 
pylon design should also be reviewed in detail. 
29. The visual impact of any temporary structures (5.8.34) during construction should be 
considered, for example related to the laydown area (3.3.29) – it is not clear if any 
temporary buildings are proposed here.  
30. Visual impacts of the development during the operational phase may arise from night 
lighting, security measures and plumes and the ES should report on these.  
31. Opportunities to reduce visual impacts can arise through site layout, for example 
through minimisation of clutter – so, as alluded to above, more detail on the elements 
that will compromise the permanent development are needed. 
32. A draft landscape strategy should be provided as part of the application. It will need to 
be prepared and agreed with the Local Planning Authorities. It may be that measures 
contained therein will need to be secured via planning obligation, for example offsite 
planting given the visual envelope of the project. 
Ecology1 
Survey and Assessment 
33. The scoping surveys appear to be based on current and local Suffolk Biological 
Records Centre (SBRC) data which should enable robust assessment of potential 
impacts on ecology from the construction of the power station and associated utility 
                                                      
1 Comments on the  Extended Phase 1 Habitat Survey are appended to this letter 
 
Page 6 of 12 
connections. SCC does request that all additional data collected is made available to 
the Suffolk Biological Records Centre. 
34. Regarding surveys of habitats and species, SCC has not reviewed the ecological 
scoping report carried out by MSDC in 2011 (5.5.4). Nevertheless, while we accept that 
the hedgerows, scrub and trees are the main habitats which require assessment for 
protected species, it should be noted that arable field margins are a BAP habitat and 
this should be added to the scoping surveys so that the impacts of the power 
generation plant and connection options on any arable plants as well as farmland birds 
are adequately assessed. 
35. While the undergrounding of the electrical connection would have landscape and visual 
benefits, burial is likely to require a significant wayleave which can lead to the 
severance of ecological corridors such as any crossing of Ley Lane for example. 
Therefore proposals for the use of trenchless methods and other mitigation methods 
are likely to be required when considering the results of surveys identified in paragraph 
5. 5.16. 
36. With respect to both the gas and electrical connection options, there is particular 
crossover between the assessment of landscape, visual and ecological effects in the 
impacts of hedgerows and hedgerow trees. From an ecological perspective it is 
particularly important that all veteran trees (see EN-1 5.3.14) that may be affected are 
identified and that all hedgerows where bat passes are recorded are identified and 
recognised as important. 
37. Clarification regarding the identified Site of Importance for Nature Conservation (SINC) 
on Progress Industrial Estate (5.5.25) is required. There is no County Wildlife Site 
(CWS) on the airfield in the CWS register for Mid Suffolk and we therefore need 
additional information regarding the ecological value of this site before assessing the 
survey and assessment needs for it. 
38. Notwithstanding the comments at paragraph 34 above, we are content that the 
proposed species surveys for protected and BAP species are reasonable. Mitigation 
measures will need to be identified for European Protected Species (bats and Great 
Crested Newts) and for Brown hare.  
39. We welcome the intention to undertake a Habitats Regulation Assessment (HRA) 
Screening Exercise (5.5.35) and suggest that reference to a shadow HRA screening 
report for PINS is included in the ES. 
Potential Mitigation Measures 
40. In addition to embedded mitigation (5.5.36), we would welcome early discussion of the 
potential requirements regarding specific measures to minimise any impacts on 
protected species.  
41. In accordance with EN-1, paragraph 5.3.4, the applicant should seek to take advantage 
of opportunities to conserve and enhance biodiversity – for example through discussion 
of opportunities to enhance the local ecological network. Furthermore, offsetting of any 
residual impacts outside the red line boundary may need to be considered. Defra has 
produced some Guiding Principles2 and an accompanying technical paper3 outlining 
the relevant metrics.   
                                                      
2 http://archive.defra.gov.uk/environment/biodiversity/offsetting/documents/110714offsetting-guiding-principles.pdf  
3 http://www.defra.gov.uk/publications/files/pb13745-bio-technical-paper.pdf 
 
Page 7 of 12 
42. A draft ecological management plan should be provided as part of the application. It will 
need to be prepared and agreed with the Local Planning Authorities. It may be that 
measures contained therein will need to be secured via planning obligation, for 
example to offset any residual ecological impacts. 
Historic Environment (Archaeology only) 
43. The site of this major development for the construction of a power generation plant, gas 
connection and electrical connection, is located in an area of archaeological interest 
recorded in the County Historic Environment Record.  
44. It is also located close to the edge of Broome Common (HER no. TDE 016) and there 
is high potential, therefore, for medieval green-edge settlement remains to be located 
in this area. There is also high potential for scattered prehistoric settlement remains to 
be located in this area and, potentially, Roman occupation remains given the proximity 
to the line of the Roman road (HER no. BRM 011). There is also potential for 
encountering features relating to the WW2 air field (HER no. EYE 072). Although there 
are no recorded heritage assets within the proposed development site, the area has 
not been the subject of previous systematic investigation and recording. 
45. Consequently we recommend the following evidence should be provided in the 
Environmental Statement: 
• Cultural Heritage Desk-based Assessment and Visual Impact Assessment. The 
Environmental Statement should also include an assessment of the impact of the 
development on a range of Cultural Heritage assets including the visual impact on 
designated heritage assets (Scheduled Ancient Monuments and Listed Buildings).  The 
work should take into account the historic nature of the area and this should include 
assessment of the County's Historic Landscape Character (HLC).  The work 
should also include a cumulative impact assessment of the Eye Windfarm on the 
historic environment. We would suggest that the locations identified for the Visual 
Impact Assessment in the Eye Windfarm applications should provide a good starting 
point for the current project. 
• Archaeological Evaluation comprising geophysical survey and trial-trenched excavation 
across the site of power generation plant and also along the corridors for the gas and 
electrical connections (once the preferred routes have been identified) to assess the 
direct impacts on below-ground archaeological deposits (contra paragraph 5.10.23 of 
the Scoping Report). The trenched evaluation is normally 3.5–5% sample of the 
development area, depending on the results of the geophysical survey, to assess direct 
impacts of the proposal. The results of the evaluation must be presented in the 
application, along with a detailed strategy for further investigation.  The results should 
inform the development to ensure preservation in situ of any previously unknown 
nationally important archaeological remains within the development area. 
46. In order to establish the full archaeological implications of this area, the applicant 
should be required, prior to determination of the application, to provide for an 
archaeological field evaluation of the site.  The results of this work will enable the 
archaeological resource (both in quality and extent) to be accurately characterised. 
This is in accordance with paragraphs 128 and 129 of the National Planning Policy 
Framework. Decisions on the need for, and scope of, any further work should there be 
any below-ground archaeological finds of significance, will be based upon the results of 
the evaluation. 
 
Page 8 of 12 
47.  We would be pleased to offer guidance to the applicant on the archaeological work 
required and will, on request, prepare a brief for each stage of the work. 
Traffic, Transport & Access (including Public Rights of Way) 
48. The ES will need to explain and justify assumptions made within the transport 
assessment of the application. These should be discussed with SCC in advance of the 
application.  
49. The ES will need to provide information on all construction and operational transport. 
The assumption that the vehicles will mainly be personnel related (5.10.1) seems very 
unlikely and is not accepted at this point. Information will also be required on vehicles 
used for materials, delivery and disposal, and construction equipment for all aspects of 
the construction. 
50. A profile of vehicle numbers throughout the construction and for typical operation will 
be required (5.10.2). There will also need to be information on how delivery and shift 
times will be managed to avoid peak periods along the delivery/commuting routes.  
51. The route for abnormal loads will need to be agreed with SCC Structural Engineering 
section (5.10.3). 
52. Information will need to be provided on the type of vehicle and vehicle movements 
required for the operational phase (5.10.4), for example related to the tankering of 
water supplies (see water resources below). Consideration will also then need to be 
given to the timing of these movements to cause minimal impact on the network. 
Impact on the local network would also be affected by the introduction of any new 
access route to the site off the A140. 
53. The A140 at this location needs to be considered as a corridor rather than a selection 
of specific junctions (5.10.5 & 5.10.6). This corridor should cover from a point south of 
the junction of the A140 with Castleton Way to a point north of the junction of the A140 
and B1077. Particular attention needs to be assessing the impacts of additional traffic 
on safety and evaluating the need for any mitigation measures. 
54. Reference is made to a new access off the A140 (5.10.6); it is not clear if this refers to 
a permanent access to the site or temporary access for the purpose of the electrical 
connection work.  
55. The approach set out at paragraph 5.10.7 should not limit the options for mitigation or 
demand management considered during the transport assessment process. The extent 
of residual impact will have to be agreed. 
56. The comparison of existing traffic flows should be by vehicle category so that the 
relative impact of construction related traffic can be assessed (5.10.9). Sufficient traffic 
data should be obtained to ensure a thorough assessment of transport impacts; the 
term "if considered necessary" seems to contradict this approach. 
57. The ES needs to address the issue of sustainable non motorised access to the site on 
local roads, in particular the B1077 where there is no dedicated footway to the main 
site entrance. It should be noted that the impact of the development on all Non-
Motorised Users needs to be considered, not just pedestrians (5.10.10). In addition to 
severance from amenity areas, the assessment also needs to consider NMU's use of 
the highway network for other uses. Mitigation will be needed to address any significant 
residual impacts, for example through the upgrade of part of the public footpath 
 
Page 9 of 12 
network on the airfield site to bridleway to provide a preferable alternative means of 
access.  
58. The sentence "and predicted traffic associated with the development." should be added 
to paragraph 5.10.11 
59. SCC is the highway authority for this area (5.10.12). The Highways Agency should be 
consulted on potential impacts on the strategic network where this forms part of the 
delivery route (when it is confirmed where this is). MSDC should be consulted on their 
understanding of issues and potential sources of additional traffic from developments in 
the area. For the non-strategic network, SCC should be consulted directly. 
60. The preparation of a travel plan is a key part of assessing potential mitigation and 
demand management, this needs to form part of this process and not be an add on as 
suggested by paragraph 5.10.13. The travel plan also needs to be deliverable and 
enforceable and a draft should be provided with the application. Particular regard 
should be had to the opportunity to deliver a rail-bus interchange facility at Diss for 
construction workers, and, more generally to improve connectivity between the site and 
adjacent employment and residential areas.  
61. With respect to possible cumulative impacts, there is a need to take into account the 
impact along the proposed delivery routes rather than just the impact of associated 
developments in the immediate area (5.13.1). SCC can advise on this once the delivery 
routes are clarified. 
62. We would expect all the mitigation proposals to be set out in a Code of Construction 
Practice, a draft of which should be provided with the application. It should include 
details of traffic routeing, provisions for access and a travel plan. Details of a pre-
construction condition survey for the highway (including public rights of way) network 
will need to be provided and provisions set out for the reinstatement of damage. 
Public Rights of Way 
63. The Scoping Report does not adequately reflect the need to assess the impacts of the 
development on users of the public rights of way (PRoW) network. 
64. The area is well served by such links and they are highly valued by local people.  
Consequently we would expect the ES to describe the local network, its extent 
(including the unofficial diversions and permissive paths) and usage. It should then 
evaluate the potential impact of the development on this network, both directly by 
construction activity and indirectly by diminishment of amenity value (due to for 
example visual or noise impacts of the development).  
65. Reference should then be made to mitigating this impact and, in line with EN-1 5.10.20, 
enhancing the network to provide safe, healthy and sustainable access to and from the 
site both during construction and then ongoing operation, particularly be addressing 
barriers that may prevent the network being used as much as it might otherwise be. 
Improvements to access the wider countryside using local PRoW should be 
considered, including, in particular, safety improvements to the PRoW crossing of the 
A140 to the immediate west of the site.  
66. It is important that any closures/diversions required are properly managed, and 
supported with an effective communications strategy, with parish, district and county 
councillors directly informed. Any signage needed should be appropriately placed, but 
should not become visually intrusive and should be removed in a timely fashion. The 
 
Page 10 of 12 
use of interpretation boards in conjunction the signage should be considered to inform 
the public about the project. 
67. All the mitigation proposals should be set out in the Code of Construction Practice, as 
described above. 
 Water Resources 
68. The Scoping Report does not reflect that the site is located in an extremely water 
stressed area. Essex and Suffolk Water’s draft Water Resource Management Plan 
states4 “[T]he Essex and Suffolk supply areas are located within some of the driest 
areas of the country and as such face particular challenges including a general lack of 
new intrinsic water resources, growing demand, and uncertainty from climate change”.  
69. Eye is located within Essex and Suffolk Water’s Suffolk Hartismere Water Resource 
Zone, which historically has been the most affected by drought of all the WRZz (page 
252).  
70. It is recognised that water companies are under no obligation to supply new industrial 
users, but there is localised concern over the implications of the water requirements of 
this project (which are not set out in the Scoping Report, though it is assumed the plant 
will utilise air cooling (5.6.3)) for existing, particularly agricultural users.  
71. Consequently the ES should set out more clearly the water requirements of the plant in 
operation (but also construction), where it proposes to source water from and in what 
quantities and how it will make it available on site and also, similarly, how waste water 
will be disposed of (for example via tankering).  
72. The ES should also set out the opportunities for rainwater harvesting or other means or 
reducing the water resource footprint of the development and why they may have been 
discounted (5.6.18).  
73. Sustainable Drainage Systems (5.6.19) should be deployed to maintain a greenfield 
runoff rate for the site and designed to be integrated in to a wider network in due 
course to ensure efficient use of space on the airfield. If well-designed, SUDS can have 
ancillary environmental benefits, for example through creation of new habitat. 
74. The applicant should be aware that Schedule 3 of the Flood and Water Management 
Act 2010 is proposed to commence by April 2014. This will require the applicant to 
obtain drainage approval for any works affecting surface water and is in addition to 
planning consent. It will be an offence to construct without drainage approval. If, 
however development consent is granted before this time, then no drainage approval 
would be required. 
Noise, Air Quality and Emissions 
75. These issues are principally matters for Mid Suffolk District Council as the relevant 
authority for environmental health, so we make limited comment. 
76. As well as showing a contour map from the noise modelling, a list of the major noise 
sources (relating to the plant, electricity and gas infrastructure) should also be included 
in the ES to aid assessment.  
77. The construction noise assessment should include reference to noise from construction 
vehicles accessing the site.  
                                                      
4 http://www.eswater.co.uk/ assets/documents/Draft ESW PR14 WRMP Report Final for Web.pdf page 
6 
 
Page 11 of 12 
78. Furthermore, the occurrence of any “steam releases” from the gas turbines (if relevant) 
should also be described in the ES (this is described as a nuisance associated with 
existing plant on neighbouring land).  
79. The air quality assessment will need to consider carbon dioxide emissions in the terms 
described in EN-1 (5.2.2). 
Geology, Ground Conditions and Agriculture 
80. The section recognises the potential for sterilisation of agricultural ground in the 
connection corridors. This also applies of course to the main site and in both locations 
the quality of the land lost should be described. 
81. The ES should clarify the depth of soil that will remain above any buried cables and 
pipes and so available for agricultural operations. Although it is stated that the pipe 
depth will be “at least 1.1m” for the gas pipe (3.4.10) (not described for underground 
cables), it is important to understand the depth of soil that will be available for 
cultivation and if this will be sufficient to facilitate all normal arable operations such as 
sub-soiling.  
82. If the soil above the cables/pipes is not available for these deeper arable operations, 
this may impact on arable farming operations (including through land sterilisation), and 
consequently result in landscape change. The impacts of undergrounding on soil 
conditions (soil structure and field drainage) more generally should also be considered. 
83. As EN-1 notes (5.10.23), where a project has a sterilising effect on land use there may 
be scope for this to be mitigated through, for example, using or incorporating the land 
for nature conservation or wildlife corridors or uses ancillary to the development, for 
example access (vehicular or non-motorised users). 
Cumulative Impact 
84. Our clear preference is to see the electrical connection consented alongside the main 
development. If it does not form part of the DCO, sufficient detail must be presented to 
ensure that an adequate assessment of the cumulative impacts of the power station 
and the electrical connection can be undertaken. The power station cannot function 
without the connection, therefore the environmental impact of both elements must be 
assessed as a whole. 
85. The cumulative impact assessment will also need to include all those projects which 
may interact with any one of the EIA sub-topics. In socio-economic terms in particular, 
cumulative effects may occur with projects with similar labour market supply chain 
requirements further afield.  
86. For example, both East Anglia ONE and National Grid’s Bramford to Twinstead project 
construction is programmed for 2016 to 2018. It is acknowledged that the likely 
demands on the workforce and the supply chain of this project are likely to be less than 
some of those other infrastructure projects in the region therefore the assessment 
should be proportionate to the scale of the anticipated impact. 
87. Note also the comments at paragraph 61 concerning the spatial extent over which 
cumulative transport impacts should be considered. 
88. SCC is pleased to note that existing developments will be included in the cumulative 
impact assessment and agrees that those projects identified at 5.13.3 are relevant. It is 
also important that the existing 400kV overhead line to the west of the site, which the 
applicant proposes to connect to, is also considered in this context. 
 
Page 12 of 12 
I trust the above comments are helpful. If you require any clarification, please do not 
hesitate to contact me. 
 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
 
Michael Wilks 
Spatial Planning Projects Manager 
Economy, Skills and Environment 
 
Comments on Phase 1 Habitat Survey report 
A. Criteria for classifying important hedgerows for this development (Appendix C) should 
follow the best practice identified from work with other NSIPs in the county particularly 
for Barbastelle bats.  
B. SINCs should be referred to as County Wildlife Sites and all the Ancient Woodlands 
listed in 3.1.2 and Table 3.1 are also CWS.  
C. Eye is a town not a village (as it has a Town Council) (1.2.1) 
D. The weblink for Suffolk BAP is incorrect (2.1.4 note 6) - it should be 
www.suffolkbiodiversity.org   
E. Typographic error in Table 3.1 – it should read Roydon Fen 
F. Mellis Common is a Suffolk Wildlife Trust (SWT) reserve NOT Braiseworth 
Wood/Steggall's Wood (3.1.3 and Table 3.2) 
G. The Phase 1 habitat survey for the electrical connections is awaited 
H. For clarity, at 4.3.16 after "...although no records of GCN or reptiles.” ‘within 1 km of 
PGP and GCRCs’ should be inserted. 
I. Appendix D, Target Note 12; roosting bats do not need a tree with a large branch or 
trunk so it may be necessary to revisit some assumptions about tree roost potential in 
this plantation. 
 
JOINT CONSULTATION RESPONSE 
from 
YAXLEY PARISH COUNCIL and THRANDESTON PARISH COUNCIL 
dated 13 June 2013 
 
Planning Inspectorate reference: 130517_EN010060_1802507 
Referring to a SCOPING REPORT submitted by PROGESS POWER LIMITED and relating to 
A PROPOSED GAS-FIRED POWER STATION ON EYE AIRFIELD, SUFFOLK 
 
 
1. Areas of assessments 
The area intended to be covered by some of the assessments is not large enough to give a 
comprehensive picture of the impact that a development of this magnitude might have on 
the surrounding environment. 
    The area covered by assessments relating to Noise & Vibration should have a minimum 
radius of 2 kilometres; for Air Quality, Ecology, Water Resources a minimum radius of 5 
kilometres; and for Landscape & Visual Impact and Cultural Heritage & Archaeology a 
minimum radius of 6 kilometres. 
 
2. Air Quality 
Assessments should quantify the likely impact on growing crops, open water and its wildlife, 
herbivorous wildlife and insects, especially pollinators. Yaxley Allotment is very close to the 
development and its users will expect any reassurances to be backed by reliable evidence. 
    Although the vulnerability of the local area needs to be assessed, will the surveys yield 
information on the wider dispersal by the prevailing winds, for example south-westerlies 
blowing along the Waveney Valley carrying emissions towards the coast? 
    Consideration should be given to assessing the particular impact on ecologically sensitive 
areas, including The Marsh at Thrandeston and all other land in the area that is managed 
under stewardship agreements with Natural England. 
    The emissions should be evaluated in the context of the area’s committed carbon 
reduction target. 
 
3. Noise and Vibration 
The noise monitoring position identified in the scoping report on Old Norwich Road, Yaxley is 
inappropriate because it lies behind a high earth bund that screens sound from the east. A 
position at a property further south along the road towards the centre of the village would 
be more representative. 
 
4. Water Resources 
In its description of watercourses in the area, the scoping report fails to mention several 
relatively minor ones to the west that feed into Stuston Beck and Thrandeston Beck. Any 
impact from the development on these watercourses should be assessed. 
    Some surface water drainage from the proposed site runs westwards under the A140 and 
eventually feeds into a watercourse west of the Yaxley Allotment. There is a risk of flooding 
the field at times of high run-off. The capacity of this system to take any more water should 
be investigated. 
 
5. Landscape and Visual Impact 
More  viewpoints for photomontages are needed, some from much greater distances than 
those shown on the plan that Progress Power made available to the relevant parish councils. 
    Views from all the nearby conservation areas of Mellis, Thrandeston, Eye, Palgrave and 
Hoxne should be included. 
    The viewpoint in Yaxley should be from Dukes Bridge. The viewpoint in Thrandeston 
should not be at the church but from a point between the pond in Little Green and the 
telephone box. 
    Viewpoints from important listed buildings especially those nearest to the site such as 
Goswold Hall and Maltings Farm are also necessary, as are some from various high points 
some distance away. Local knowledge could inform the selection of viewpoints when the 
time comes. 
    It is important that visual impact should be assessed in that half of the year when much of 
the screening value of foliage is lost. All photomontages should therefore use photographs 
taken in the winter months to meet the ‘worst case scenario’ requirement. 
    It is hoped that the design of the plant shown in any photomontages will reflect the design 
expectations in the Eye Airfield Development Framework and achieve a ‘smoothed’ profile 
by using different heights in the elements that make up the development. 
   Descriptions and visualisation of landscaping mitigation measures should be requested, 
possibly by including it in some of the photomontages. 
   Depending on the location of the electricity substation it may be necessary to extend the 
visual impact assessment area further west. 
 
6. Traffic, Transport and Access 
A full assessment is needed of the almost inevitably increased accident risk at the staggered 
crossroads on the A140 where Castleton Way runs eastwards to Eye and Eye Road runs 
westwards into Yaxley. An increase in traffic volume, which is likely to be significant during 
the three-year construction phase, will put an added load onto this already hazardous 
junction. It will be necessary to assess not just the extent of the increased traffic but also to 
give a breakdown of the direction from which it approaches the junction. Vehicles arriving 
from the south will generate a greater accident risk than those from the north. Mitigation 
measures should be devised. 
    In paragraph 5.10.5 on page 115 of the scoping report it mentions that the vehicular 
access to the site will be ‘via the A140, entering the site from the south via Castleton Lane 
[sic] and Potash Lane’. Potash Lane is on the eastern side of the airfield and is accessible only 
via the B1077. There is presently no vehicular route within the airfield from the end of 
Potash Lane to the proposed site. If there is any intention of opening an access route here to 
enable a route through from the B1077 to the site, further assessment and mitigation will be 
necessary at the junction of the B1077 and the A140, which is probably even more 
hazardous than the one further south.  
 
7. Cultural Heritage and Archaeology 
The area is rich in built heritage and the settings of many will no doubt be compromised by 
this proposed development. The economy of north Suffolk relies heavily on tourism and the 
extent to which this is likely to be impacted should be investigated and quantified. 
 
8. Miscellaneous 
Some risk assessment is required to determine whether the cumulative impact resulting 
from a concentration of high profile energy-producing developments, one being of strategic 
national importance, presents a greater risk of a major accident or might be seen as an 
attractive target for a terrorist attack. By way of mitigation, appropriate security measures 
should be proposed. 
    There is no mention in the scoping report of the assessment of a potential increase in light 
pollution. This should be addressed and mitigation measures should be proposed. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX 3 
Presentation of the Environmental 
Statement 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix 3 
 
 
APPENDIX 3 
PRESENTATION OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL STATEMENT 
The 
Infrastructure 
Planning 
(Applications: 
Prescribed 
Forms 
and 
Procedure) Regulations 2009 (SI 2264) (as amended) sets out the 
information which must be provided for an application for a development 
consent order (DCO) for nationally significant infrastructure under the 
Planning Act 2008. Where required, this includes an environmental 
statement. Applicants may also provide any other documents considered 
necessary 
to 
support 
the 
application. 
Information 
which 
is 
not 
environmental information need not be replicated or included in the ES.  
An environmental statement (ES) is described under the Infrastructure 
Planning (Environmental Impact Assessment) Regulations 2009 (SI 2263) 
(as amended) (the EIA Regulations) as a statement: 
a) 
‘that includes such of the information referred to in Part 1 of 
Schedule 4 as is reasonably required to assess the environmental 
effects of the development and of any associated development and 
which the applicant can, having regard in particular to current 
knowledge and methods of assessment, reasonably be required to 
compile; but 
b) 
that includes at least the information required in Part 2 of 
Schedule 4’. 
(EIA Regulations Regulation 2) 
The purpose of an ES is to ensure that the environmental effects of a 
proposed development are fully considered, together with the economic or 
social benefits of the development, before the development consent 
application under the Planning Act 2008 is determined.  The ES should be 
an aid to decision making. 
The SoS advises that the ES should be laid out clearly with a minimum 
amount of technical terms and should provide a clear objective and 
realistic description of the likely significant impacts of the proposed 
development. The information should be presented so as to be 
comprehensible to the specialist and non-specialist alike. The SoS 
recommends that the ES be concise with technical information placed in 
appendices. 
ES Indicative Contents 
The SoS emphasises that the ES should be a ‘stand alone’ document in 
line with best practice and case law. The EIA Regulations Schedule 4, 
Parts 1 and 2, set out the information for inclusion in environmental 
statements.  
Schedule 4 Part 1 of the EIA Regulations states this information includes: 
‘17.  
Description of the development, including in particular— 
 
 
 
Appendix 3 
 
 
(a)  
a description of the physical characteristics of the 
whole development and the land-use requirements 
during the construction and operational phases; 
(b)  
a description of the main characteristics of the 
production processes, for instance, nature and quantity 
of the materials used; 
(c)  
an estimate, by type and quantity, of expected 
residues and emissions (water, air and soil pollution, 
noise, vibration, light, heat, radiation, etc) resulting 
from the operation of the proposed development. 
 
18.  
An outline of the main alternatives studied by the applicant 
and an indication of the main reasons for the applicant’s 
choice, taking into account the environmental effects. 
 
19.  
A description of the aspects of the environment likely to be 
significantly affected by the development, including, in 
particular, population, fauna, flora, soil, water, air, climatic 
factors, material assets, including the architectural and 
archaeological heritage, landscape and the interrelationship 
between the above factors. 
 
20.  
A description of the likely significant effects of the 
development on the environment, which should cover the 
direct effects and any indirect, secondary, cumulative, short, 
medium and long-term, permanent and temporary, positive 
and negative effects of the development, resulting from: 
(a)  
the existence of the development; 
(b) 
the use of natural resources; 
(c)  
the emission of pollutants, the creation of nuisances 
and the elimination of waste,  
and the description by the applicant of the forecasting 
methods used to assess the effects on the environment. 
 
21.  
A description of the measures envisaged to prevent, reduce 
and where possible offset any significant adverse effects on 
the environment. 
 
22.  
A non-technical summary of the information provided under 
paragraphs 1 to 5 of this Part. 
 
23.  
An indication of any difficulties (technical deficiencies or lack 
of know-how) encountered by the applicant in compiling the 
required information’. 
EIA Regulations Schedule 4 Part 1 
4.18 
The content of the ES must include as a minimum those matters 
set out in Schedule 4 Part 2 of the EIA Regulations.  This includes 
the consideration of ‘the main alternatives studied by the 
applicant’ which the SoS recommends could be addressed as a 
separate chapter in the ES.  Part 2 is included below for reference: 
 
 
 
Appendix 3 
 
 
4.19 
Schedule 4 Part 2 
• 
A description of the development comprising information on the 
site, design and size of the development 
• 
A description of the measures envisaged in order to avoid, reduce 
and, if possible, remedy significant adverse effects 
• 
The data required to identify and assess the main effects which the 
development is likely to have on the environment 
• 
An outline of the main alternatives studies by the applicant and an 
indication of the main reasons for the applicant’s choice, taking into 
account the environmental effects, and 
• 
A non-technical summary of the information provided [under the 
four paragraphs above]. 
Traffic and transport is not specified as a topic for assessment under 
Schedule 4; although in line with good practice the SoS considers it is an 
important consideration per se, as well as being the  source of further 
impacts in terms of air quality and noise and vibration. 
Balance 
The SoS recommends that the ES should be balanced, with matters which 
give rise to a greater number or more significant impacts being given 
greater prominence. Where few or no impacts are identified, the technical 
section may be much shorter, with greater use of information in 
appendices as appropriate. 
The SoS considers that the ES should not be a series of disparate reports 
and stresses the importance of considering inter-relationships between 
factors and cumulative impacts. 
Scheme Proposals  
The scheme parameters will need to be clearly defined in the draft DCO 
and therefore in the accompanying ES which should support the 
application as described. The SoS is not able to entertain material changes 
to a project once an application is submitted. The SoS draws the attention 
of the applicant to the DCLG and the Planning Inspectorate’s published 
advice on the preparation of a draft DCO and accompanying application 
documents. 
Flexibility  
The SoS acknowledges that the EIA process is iterative, and therefore the 
proposals may change and evolve. For example, there may be changes to 
the scheme design in response to consultation. Such changes should be 
addressed in the ES. However, at the time of the application for a DCO, 
any proposed scheme parameters should not be so wide ranging as to 
represent effectively different schemes. 
 
 
 
Appendix 3 
 
 
 
It is a matter for the applicant, in preparing an ES, to consider whether it 
is possible to assess robustly a range of impacts resulting from a large 
number of undecided parameters. The description of the proposed 
development in the ES must not be so wide that it is insufficiently certain 
to comply with requirements of paragraph 17 of Schedule 4 Part 1 of the 
EIA Regulations. 
The Rochdale Envelope principle (see R v Rochdale MBC ex parte Tew 
(1999) and R v Rochdale MBC ex parte Milne (2000)) is an accepted way 
of dealing with uncertainty in preparing development applications. The 
applicant’s attention is drawn to the Planning Inspectorate’s Advice Note 9 
‘Rochdale Envelope’ which is available on the Advice Note’s page of the 
National Infrastructure Planning website.  
The applicant should make every attempt to narrow the range of options 
and explain clearly in the ES which elements of the scheme have yet to be 
finalised and provide the reasons. Where some flexibility is sought and the 
precise details are not known, the applicant should assess the maximum 
potential adverse impacts the project could have to ensure that the 
project as it may be constructed has been properly assessed.  
The ES should be able to confirm that any changes to the development 
within any proposed parameters would not result in significant impacts not 
previously identified and assessed. The maximum and other dimensions of 
the  proposed development should be clearly described in the ES, with 
appropriate justification. It will also be important to consider choice of 
materials, colour and the form of the structures and of any buildings. 
Lighting proposals should also be described. 
Scope 
The SoS recommends that the physical scope of the study areas should be 
identified under all the environmental topics and should be sufficiently 
robust in order to undertake the assessment. The extent of the study 
areas should be on the basis of recognised professional guidance, 
whenever such guidance is available. The study areas should also be 
agreed with the relevant consultees and local authorities and, where this 
is not possible, this should be stated clearly in the ES and a reasoned 
justification given. The scope should also cover the breadth of the topic 
area and the temporal scope, and these aspects should be described and 
justified. 
Physical Scope 
In general the SoS recommends that the physical scope for the EIA should 
be determined in the light of: 
• 
the nature of the proposal being considered 
• 
the relevance in terms of the specialist topic  
 
 
 
Appendix 3 
 
 
• 
the breadth of the topic 
• 
the physical extent of any surveys or the study area, and 
• 
the potential significant impacts. 
The SoS recommends that the physical scope of the study areas should be 
identified for each of the environmental topics and should be sufficiently 
robust in order to undertake the assessment. This should include at least 
the whole of the application site, and include all offsite works. For certain 
topics, such as landscape and transport, the study area will need to be 
wider. The extent of the study areas should be on the basis of recognised 
professional guidance and best practice, whenever this is available, and 
determined by establishing the physical extent of the likely impacts. The 
study areas should also be agreed with the relevant consultees and, 
where this is not possible, this should be stated clearly in the ES and a 
reasoned justification given.  
Breadth of the Topic Area 
The ES should explain the range of matters to be considered under each 
topic and this may respond partly to the type of project being considered.  
If the range considered is drawn narrowly then a justification for the 
approach should be provided. 
Temporal Scope 
The assessment should consider: 
• 
environmental impacts during construction works 
• 
environmental impacts on completion/operation of the development 
• 
where appropriate, environmental impacts a suitable number of 
years after completion of the development (for example, in order to 
allow for traffic growth or maturing of any landscape proposals), and 
• 
environmental impacts during decommissioning. 
In terms of decommissioning, the SoS acknowledges that the further into 
the future any assessment is made, the less reliance may be placed on 
the outcome. However, the purpose of such a long term assessment, as 
well as to enable the decommissioning of the works to be taken into 
account, is to encourage early consideration as to how structures can be 
taken down. The purpose of this is to seek to minimise disruption, to re-
use materials and to restore the site or put it to a suitable new use. The 
SoS encourages consideration of such matters in the ES. 
The SoS recommends that these matters should be set out clearly in the 
ES and that the suitable time period for the assessment should be agreed 
with the relevant statutory consultees.  
The SoS recommends that throughout the ES a standard terminology for 
time periods should be defined, such that for example, ‘short term’ always 
refers to the same period of time.   
 
 
 
Appendix 3 
 
 
Baseline 
The SoS recommends that the baseline should describe the position from 
which the impacts of the proposed development are measured. The 
baseline should be chosen carefully and, whenever possible, be consistent 
between topics. The identification of a single baseline is to be welcomed in 
terms of the approach to the assessment, although it is recognised that 
this may not always be possible. 
The SoS recommends that the baseline environment should be clearly 
explained in the ES, including any dates of surveys, and care should be 
taken to ensure that all the baseline data remains relevant and up to date.  
For each of the environmental topics, the data source(s) for the baseline 
should be set out together with any survey work undertaken with the 
dates.  The timing and scope of all surveys should be agreed with the 
relevant statutory bodies and appropriate consultees, wherever possible.   
The baseline situation and the proposed development should be described 
within the context of the site and any other proposals in the vicinity. 
Identification of Impacts and Method Statement 
Legislation and Guidelines 
In terms of the EIA methodology, the SoS recommends that reference 
should be made to best practice and any standards, guidelines and 
legislation that have been used to inform the assessment. This should 
include guidelines prepared by relevant professional bodies. 
In terms of other regulatory regimes, the SoS recommends that relevant 
legislation and all permit and licences required should be listed in the ES 
where relevant to each topic. This information should also be submitted 
with the application in accordance with the APFP Regulations. 
In terms of assessing the impacts, the ES should approach all relevant 
planning and environmental policy – local, regional and national (and 
where appropriate international) – in a consistent manner. 
Assessment of Effects and Impact Significance 
The EIA Regulations require the identification of the ‘likely significant 
effects of the development on the environment’ (Schedule 4 Part 1 
paragraph 20). 
As a matter of principle, the SoS applies the precautionary approach to 
follow the Court’s2 reasoning in judging ‘significant effects’. In other words 
                                       
2 See Landelijke Vereniging tot Behoud van de Waddenzee and Nederlandse 
Vereniging tot Bescherming van Vogels v Staatssecretris van Landbouw 
(Waddenzee Case No C 127/02/2004) 
 
 
 
Appendix 3 
 
 
‘likely to affect’ will be taken as meaning that there is a probability or risk 
that the development will have an effect, and not that a development will 
definitely have an effect. 
The SoS considers it is imperative for the ES to define the meaning of 
‘significant’ in the context of each of the specialist topics and for 
significant impacts to  be clearly identified. The SoS recommends that the 
criteria should be set out fully and that the ES should set out clearly the 
interpretation of ‘significant’ in terms of each of the EIA topics. 
Quantitative criteria should be used where available. The SoS considers 
that this should also apply to the consideration of cumulative impacts and 
impact inter-relationships. 
The SoS recognises that the way in which each element of the 
environment may be affected by the proposed development can be 
approached in a number of ways. However it considers that it would be 
helpful, in terms of ease of understanding and in terms of clarity of 
presentation, to consider the impact assessment in a similar manner for 
each of the specialist topic areas. The SoS recommends that a common 
format should be applied where possible.  
Inter-relationships between environmental factors 
The inter-relationship between aspects of the environments likely to be 
significantly affected is a requirement of the EIA Regulations (see 
Schedule 4 Part 1 of the EIA Regulations). These occur where a number of 
separate impacts, e.g. noise and air quality, affect a single receptor such 
as fauna. 
The SoS considers that the inter-relationships between factors must be 
assessed in order to address the environmental impacts of the proposal as 
a whole. This will help to ensure that the ES is not a series of separate 
reports collated into one document, but rather a comprehensive 
assessment drawing together the environmental impacts of the proposed 
development. This is particularly important when considering impacts in 
terms of any permutations or parameters to the proposed development. 
Cumulative Impacts  
The potential cumulative impacts with other major developments will need 
to be identified, as required by the Directive. The significance of such 
impacts should be shown to have been assessed against the baseline 
position (which would include built and operational development). In 
assessing cumulative impacts, other major development should be 
identified through consultation with the local planning authorities and 
other relevant authorities on the basis of those that are: 
• 
under construction 
• 
permitted application(s), but not yet implemented 
• 
submitted application(s) not yet determined  
• 
projects on the National Infrastructure’s programme of projects 
                                                                                                              
 
 
 
 
Appendix 3 
 
 
• 
identified 
in 
the 
relevant 
development 
plan 
(and 
emerging 
development plans - with appropriate weight  being given as they 
move closer to adoption) recognising that much information on any 
relevant proposals will be limited, and 
• 
identified in other plans and programmes (as appropriate) which set 
the framework for future development consents/approvals, where 
such development is reasonably likely to come forward. 
Details should be provided in the ES, including the types of development, 
location and key aspects that may affect the EIA and how these have been 
taken into account as part of the assessment.   
The SoS recommends that offshore wind farms should also take account 
of any offshore licensed and consented activities in the area, for the 
purposes of assessing cumulative effects, through consultation with the 
relevant licensing/consenting bodies. 
For the purposes of identifying any cumulative effects with other 
developments in the area, applicants should also consult consenting 
bodies in other EU states to assist in identifying those developments (see 
commentary on Transboundary Effects below). 
Related Development 
The ES should give equal prominence to any development which is related 
with the proposed development to ensure that all the impacts of the 
proposal are assessed.   
The SoS recommends that the applicant should distinguish between 
development for which development consent will be sought and any other 
development. This distinction should be clear in the ES.  
Alternatives 
The ES must set out an outline of the main alternatives studied by the 
applicant and provide an indication of the main reasons for the applicant’s 
choice, taking account of the environmental effect (Schedule 4 Part 1 
paragraph 18). 
Matters should be included, such as inter alia alternative design options 
and alternative mitigation measures. The justification for the final choice 
and evolution of the scheme development should be made clear.  Where 
other sites have been considered, the reasons for the final choice should 
be addressed.  
The SoS advises that the ES should give sufficient attention to the 
alternative forms and locations for the off-site proposals, where 
appropriate, and justify the needs and choices made in terms of the form 
of the development proposed and the sites chosen. 
 
 
 
Appendix 3 
 
 
Mitigation Measures  
Mitigation measures may fall into certain categories namely: avoid; 
reduce; compensate or enhance (see Schedule 4 Part 1 paragraph 21); 
and should be identified as such in the specialist topics. Mitigation 
measures should not be developed in isolation as they may relate to more 
than one topic area. For each topic, the ES should set out any mitigation 
measures required to prevent, reduce and where possible offset any 
significant adverse effects, and to identify any residual effects  with 
mitigation in place. Any proposed mitigation should be discussed and 
agreed with the relevant consultees. 
The effectiveness of mitigation should be apparent. Only mitigation 
measures which are a firm commitment and can be shown to be 
deliverable should be taken into account as part of the assessment. 
It would be helpful if the mitigation measures proposed could be cross 
referred to specific provisions and/or requirements proposed within the 
draft development consent order. This could be achieved by means of 
describing the mitigation measures proposed either in each of the 
specialist reports or collating these within a summary section on 
mitigation. 
The SoS advises that it is considered best practice to outline in the ES, the 
structure of the environmental management and monitoring plan and 
safety procedures which will be adopted during construction and operation 
and may be adopted during decommissioning. 
Cross References and Interactions 
The SoS recommends that all the specialist topics in the ES should cross 
reference their text to other relevant disciplines. Interactions between the 
specialist topics is essential to the production of a robust assessment, as 
the ES should not be a collection of separate specialist topics, but a 
comprehensive assessment of the environmental impacts of the proposal 
and how these impacts can be mitigated. 
As set out in EIA Regulations Schedule 4 Part 1 paragraph 23, the ES 
should include an indication of any technical difficulties (technical 
deficiencies or lack of know-how) encountered by the applicant in 
compiling the required information. 
Consultation 
The SoS recommends that any changes to the scheme design in response 
to consultation should be addressed in the ES. 
It is recommended that the applicant provides preliminary environmental 
information (PEI) (this term is defined in the EIA Regulations under 
regulation 2 ‘Interpretation’) to the local authorities.  
Consultation with the local community should be carried out in accordance 
with the SoCC which will state how the applicant intends to consult on the 
 
 
 
Appendix 3 
 
 
preliminary environmental information (PEI). This PEI could include results 
of detailed surveys and recommended mitigation actions. Where effective 
consultation is carried out in accordance with Section 47 of the Planning 
Act, this could usefully assist the applicant in the EIA process – for 
example the local community may be able to identify possible mitigation 
measures to address the impacts identified in the PEI. Attention is drawn 
to the duty upon applicants under Section 50 of the Planning Act to have 
regard to the guidance on pre-application consultation. 
Transboundary Effects 
The SoS recommends that consideration should be given in the ES to any 
likely significant effects on the environment of another Member State of 
the European Economic Area. In particular, the SoS recommends 
consideration should be given to discharges to the air and water and to 
potential impacts on migratory species and to impacts on shipping and 
fishing areas.  
The Applicant’s attention is also drawn to the Planning Inspectorate’s 
Advice Note 12 ‘Development with significant transboundary impacts 
consultation’ which is available on the Advice Notes Page of the National 
Infrastructure Planning website 
Summary Tables 
The SoS recommends that in order to assist the decision making process, 
the applicant may wish to consider the use of tables: 
Table X 
to identify and collate the residual impacts after mitigation on 
the 
basis 
of 
specialist 
topics, 
inter-relationships 
and 
cumulative impacts. 
Table XX 
to demonstrate how the assessment has taken account of 
this Opinion and other responses to consultation.  
Table XXX to set out the mitigation measures proposed, as well as 
assisting the reader, the SoS considers that this would also 
enable the applicant to cross refer mitigation to specific 
provisions 
proposed 
to 
be 
included 
within 
the 
draft 
Development Consent Order. 
Table XXXX to cross reference where details in the HRA (where one is 
provided) such as descriptions of sites and their locations, 
together with any mitigation or compensation measures, are 
to be found in the ES. 
Terminology and Glossary of Technical Terms 
The SoS recommends that a common terminology should be adopted. This 
will help to ensure consistency and ease of understanding for the decision 
making process. For example, ‘the site’ should be defined and used only in 
 
 
 
Appendix 3 
 
 
terms of this definition so as to avoid confusion  with, for example, the 
wider site area or the surrounding site.  
A glossary of technical terms should be included in the ES.  
Presentation 
The ES should have all of its paragraphs numbered, as this makes 
referencing easier as well as accurate.  
Appendices must be clearly referenced, again with all paragraphs 
numbered.  
All figures and drawings, photographs and photomontages should be 
clearly referenced.  Figures should clearly show the proposed site 
application boundary. 
Bibliography 
A bibliography should be included in the ES. The author, date and 
publication title should be included for all references.  All publications 
referred to within the technical reports should be included. 
Non Technical Summary 
The EIA Regulations require a Non Technical Summary (EIA Regulations 
Schedule 4 Part 1 paragraph 22). This should be a summary of the 
assessment in simple language. It should be supported by appropriate 
figures, photographs and photomontages. 
 
 
 
