 
 
The Millbrook Power  
(Gas Fired Power Station) Order 
 
10.3 Statement of Proposed Heads of Terms for an 
Agreement Pursuant to s106 of the TCPA 1990 
 
Planning Act 2008 
The Infrastructure Planning  
(Applications: Prescribed Forms and Procedure) Regulations 2009 
 
PINS Reference Number:  
 
EN010068 
Document Reference: 
 
 
10.3 
Regulation Number: 
 
 
5(2)(q) 
Author: 
 
 
 
 
Millbrook Power Limited 
 
Revision 
 
Date  
 
Description  
 
0 
 
 
October 2017 
Submission Version  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
 
1. 
INTRODUCTION 
1.1 
Millbrook Power Limited (MPL) is proposing to develop a new thermal 
generating station (including associated Electrical Connection and Gas 
Connection) with a generating capacity of up to 299 MW in Central 
Bedfordshire (the "Project"). 
1.2 
This Statement of proposed Heads of Terms for an agreement pursuant 
to s106 Town and Country Planning Act 1990 accompanies an 
application for a Development Consent Order ("DCO") for the Project. 
1.3 
The Project will generate over 50 MW of electricity and, as such, is a 
nationally significant infrastructure project as defined in the Planning Act 
2008 (sections 14(1)(a) and 15). In accordance with the Planning Act 
2008, the DCO application will be submitted to the Planning Inspectorate, 
which will examine the application prior to the determination of the 
application by the Secretary of State. 
1.4 
The Project would be located within areas administered by Central 
Bedfordshire Council (CBC) and Bedford Borough Council (BBC), both 
of which are unitary authorities. The elements of the Project which would 
be carried out within BBC are street works only. As such, physical 
mitigation measures are not considered to be required within the area of 
BBC. CBC is closely liaising with MPL on mitigation for the impacts of the 
Project, and considers that in order to make the scheme acceptable in 
planning terms, planning obligations should be secured within an 
agreement pursuant to s106 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 
("s106 Agreement") (as amended by the Planning Act 2008). 
1.5 
Agreement over the majority of the proposed Heads of Terms has been 
reached, however, the s106 Agreement is not in an agreed form. As such, 
MPL has set out below its proposed position on all proposed Heads of 
Terms and it will continue to liaise with CBC and BBC (hereafter ‘the 
Councils’) following submission of its application for a DCO, in order to 
come to an agreed position as soon as is possible. 
2. 
MPL'S 
PROPOSED 
POSITION 
REGARDING 
AREAS 
FOR 
MITIGATION BY WAY OF PLANNING OBLIGATION 
2.1 
To undertake agreed measures for socio-economic and educational 
improvements within the vicinity of the Project.  
PROPOSED OBLIGATIONS RELEVANT TO BOTH CBC AND BBC 
3. 
EDUCATION OPPORTUNITIES 
3.1 
Prior to commencement of construction, to deliver an education scheme 
(the "Education Scheme") to the Councils for approval. The Scheme 
shall set out: 
 
 
2 
3.1.1 
A proposed programme of visits to schools located within the 
Central Bedfordshire district and Bedford Borough to be made by 
MPL for a period of five years from the commencement of 
construction, such visits to be used to explain the Project and 
how such a facility fits within the provision of energy for the 
United Kingdom. 
3.2 
The Education Scheme shall be implemented by MPL. 
4. 
LOCAL SERVICE PROVIDERS DURING CONSTRUCTION AND 
OPERATION 
4.1 
Prior to commencement of construction, to deliver a local service provider 
engagement scheme (the "Local Services Scheme") to the Councils for 
approval. The Local Services Scheme shall set out: 
4.1.1 
The measures that MPL will take in order to ensure that 
opportunities for local organisations to bid for contracts during 
the construction period of the Project are advertised locally 
(including MPL notifying the Councils at the commencement of 
the procurement process for construction of the Project in order 
to allow the Councils to advertise opportunities via any brokerage 
scheme that they may run); 
4.1.2 
The measures that MPL will take in order to ensure that 
opportunities for local organisations to bid for contracts during 
the operational period of the Project (for example for 
maintenance, waste, cleaning or security services) are 
advertised locally (including MPL notifying the Councils at the 
commencement of the procurement process for operation of the 
Project in order to allow the Councils to advertise opportunities 
via any brokerage scheme that they may run); 
4.1.3 
The anticipated number of local supplier days that will be hosted 
by MPL prior to and during construction of the Project. 
4.2 
The Local Services Scheme shall be implemented by MPL. 
PROPOSED OBLIGATIONS RELEVANT TO CBC ONLY 
 
5. 
TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT 
5.1 
EITHER: Prior to the commencement of construction for numbered works 
3 and 4, MPL to pay a sum to CBC for the installation and maintenance 
of signage during the construction period in accordance with the 
construction traffic management strategy for Houghton Lane and Station 
Lane.  
OR: [If CBC would prefer, the S106 Agreement could be widened out to 
also act as a s278 agreement under the Highways Act 1980 to provide 
 
3 
MPL with the authorisation to install and maintain signage during the 
construction period in accordance with the construction traffic 
management strategy for Houghton Lane and Station Lane. 
 
