Drax Group plc
Modern Slavery 
Statement 2017
Modern Slavery Statement 2017
Risk assessment 
A supplier risk assessment was completed to identify 
geographic and industry specific risks that had the 
potential to impact our supply chains.  Our compliance 
programme initially focused on direct suppliers linked to 
these higher-risk geographies and industries.
Whilst no instances of modern slavery were identified, 
we acknowledge that our supply chains include 
countries with a moderate to high risk exposure rating, 
as identified by the Global Slavery Index1. Examples 
being Russia, Colombia, Latvia and Estonia.
In 2017 we requested that suppliers incorporated in 
these jurisdictions complete a new modern slavery 
survey as part of an updated due diligence process. 
We will expand this work as part of our compliance 
programme in 2018.
Drax coal sourcing by country of origin, 2017
Background
“We believe in doing the right thing”
Drax Group plc is helping change the way energy is 
generated, supplied and used for a better future. The 
Group has more than 2,300 employees and operates 
an integrated value chain across three principal areas: 
sustainable wood pellet production; flexible, reliable 
electricity generation; and energy sales and services 
provision to business customers.
We are committed to conducting business with honesty, 
integrity and in accordance with applicable laws and 
regulations. We have clear policies and standards in 
place to safeguard our employees and contractors. We 
respect our employees’ rights in areas such as freedom 
of association and collective bargaining and we do not 
tolerate forced, compulsory or child labour.
We are establishing working practices that enable us 
to monitor and reduce modern slavery risk within our 
business and supply chains. Last year, we published our 
first Modern Slavery Statement as required by the UK 
Modern Slavery Act.
In this document we describe the progress made in 2017 
and the improvements we aim to progress during 2018. 
This statement is made in compliance with Section 54 
of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and constitutes the 
Group’s slavery and human trafficking statement for the 
financial year ending December 2017.
Our approach
“We’re committed to identifying and addressing modern slavery that could 
be connected to our business and supply chain”
42%
United States
1.03 million 
tonnes
31%
United Kingdom
770,358 tonnes
14%
Colombia
352,574 tonnes
13%
Russia
314,143 tonnes
1 The Global Slavery Index is an annual study of world-wide slavery conditions by country published by the Walk Free Foundation
Modern Slavery Statement 2017
Due diligence
Our supply chain is complex. We engage with suppliers 
in many different industries including forestry, mining, 
freight and logistics, engineering, construction, IT and 
site services.  
Before commencing business with a supplier in a 
new jurisdiction, a country assessment is performed 
and presented to a risk management committee for 
consideration and approval. This assessment takes 
account of various risk factors, including human rights 
standards2 and the prevalence of modern slavery.
Due diligence checks are carried out on the supplier and 
its associated persons. Should concerns be identified 
during the process, further detailed analysis may be 
procured from a specialist service provider, prior to 
escalation to the Group Ethics and Business Conduct 
Committee for decision. 
We use a third party platform to perform continuous 
monitoring of our suppliers. Alerts raised by the platform 
are provided to our compliance team for assessment. To 
further strengthen our due diligence process, we intend 
to move to a new platform in 2018.
In 2017, Drax Power Limited began to implement a 
new procurement supplier registration system. Prior 
to registration, potential suppliers will be required to 
satisfactorily complete a due diligence exercise covering 
modern slavery and human trafficking. Once embedded, 
we will monitor the performance of the new system and 
consider implementation across the Group.
Policies and procedures
We expect our people to work in accordance with our 
business values. Our policies and procedures seek 
to ensure our people have the appropriate rights to 
work and are employed in accordance with applicable 
legislation.
We provide online access to our “Doing the right thing” 
handbook. This mandatory, principles based document 
forms part of our compliance framework. It sets out our 
values and the behaviours expected from our people. 
The handbook is supplemented by various policies and 
procedures that provide additional information and 
guidance on the obligations applicable to the Group and 
how we aim to comply with those obligations.  We have 
a policy in place that provides specific detail in respect 
of modern slavery.
Contracts
Provisions on human rights and modern slavery have 
been incorporated into our Corporate Responsibility 
Statement. 
Suppliers must commit to having policies and 
procedures in place that aim to safeguard against 
direct or indirect engagement in activities that would 
constitute an offence under the Modern Slavery Act 
2015.
Training
During 2017, a classroom based modern slavery 
awareness package was developed and rolled out to 
teams at a higher risk of encountering modern slavery. 
The package provides awareness of modern slavery 
indicators that may help identify issues within our supply 
chain. 
Modern slavery awareness has also been incorporated 
into our standard contract owner training package.  
In addition, our biomass sustainability team have 
commenced a programme to promote modern slavery 
awareness when conducting biomass supplier site visits.
“Speak up” culture
We encourage those working on behalf of Drax Group to 
challenge unethical behaviour and promote a “speak up” 
culture. Concerns can be raised with line managers, the 
compliance team or a member of the Group Ethics and 
Business Conduct Committee. 
An independently operated whistleblowing hotline 
is available, enabling internal stakeholders to raise 
concerns anonymously.  Those expressing genuine 
concern will not be exposed to sanction by the company.
We take allegations of any type of unethical or illegal 
behaviour very seriously. Issues raised to the compliance 
team will be investigated and reported to the Group 
Ethics and Business Conduct Committee, which is 
chaired by our Chief Financial Officer.
In 2017, no concerns relating to modern slavery were 
raised through our reporting processes.
2 The country assessment incorporates multiple indices including the Physical Integrity Rights Index, the Empowerment Rights Index and 
the Global Rights Index
Modern Slavery Statement 2017
UN Global Compact
During 2017, we commenced a programme of work to 
become a participant in the UN Global Compact (UNGC). 
The UNGC is a voluntary corporate sustainability 
initiative that encourages businesses worldwide to 
adopt sustainable and socially responsible practices.
In line with participation requirements, we will produce 
an annual “Communication on Progress” from 2019, 
detailing actions taken to demonstrate our commitment 
to the ten UNGC principles including areas such as 
labour and human rights.
Further information on the UNGC can be found on its 
website. 
Stakeholder engagement
Like many businesses, we have a diverse group of 
stakeholders who are affected by our activities across 
the United Kingdom, Europe and the US. These include 
our shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers, 
communities, government regulators and policymakers, 
academia, non-governmental organisations (NGOs), 
opinion formers and the media.
We conduct an ongoing mapping exercise to assess 
how the stakeholder landscape is developing and to 
ensure we recognise the expectations of a broad range 
of stakeholders. This helps us to do the right thing every 
day across our businesses.
Working together
“We seek to work in partnership with others to strengthen our learning and 
approach”
Sustainable Biomass Program
In 2013, Drax co-founded the Sustainable Biomass 
Program (SBP) together with six other energy 
companies. The SBP is a certification system designed 
for woody biomass, mostly in the form of wood pellets 
and wood chips, used in industrial, large-scale energy 
production.
SBP proactively encourages the adoption of standards 
and due diligence processes that promote human rights. 
For suppliers to be approved under the certification 
scheme, they must satisfy multiple requirements, 
including those relating to modern slavery due diligence.
Further information on the Sustainable Biomass 
Program can be found on its website.
Bettercoal
Drax is an actively engaged member of Bettercoal. 
Bettercoal is a global, not-for-profit initiative established 
by a group of major European utilities to promote the 
continuous improvement of corporate responsibility in 
the coal supply chain.
The organisation provides greater assurance that 
the coal we procure comes from mines that take 
a responsible approach to safeguarding workers, 
communities and their local environment.
Further information on Bettercoal can be found on its 
website. 
Modern Slavery Statement 2017
Statement approval
We consider that the measures being taken, in conjunction with our overall commitment to doing the right thing, 
demonstrates an effective approach to identifying and addressing modern slavery that could be connected to our 
business and our supply chain.
This statement has been approved by the Drax board of directors and is made according to the requirements of 
section 54, part 6 of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 for the year ending 31 December 2017. This statement applies to 
companies within the Drax Group that are required to have a Modern Slavery Statement.
Will Gardiner
Chief Executive Officer
Drax Group plc
May 2018
Looking ahead
“We are committed to continual improvement and aim to strengthen our 
compliance programme year on year”
Planned initiatives for 2018
In 2018, we will explore strengthening our activities in 
the area of human rights and modern slavery.  This will 
include:
• Moving to a single, Group-wide modern slavery risk 
register
• Improving modern slavery awareness and delivering 
refresher training to teams at a higher risk of 
encountering modern slavery
• Adding a modern slavery feature to a planned Group-
wide compliance induction/refresher video
• The development of a Group code of conduct
• The development of a Group supplier code
Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)
We have internal modern slavery KPIs that measure the 
effectiveness of our compliance programme, including: 
the delivery of mandatory training; the completion 
of risk based due diligence refreshers; and improving 
awareness and conducting risk assessments during site 
visits. Our Ethics and Business Conduct Committee will 
be regularly updated and consulted on progress and 
performance.
In 2018, we will continue to develop our modern slavery 
KPIs and seek to incorporate them into wider Group KPIs 
to provide greater visibility of our performance.
Supplier engagement
In addition to the improvements identified above, we aim 
to strengthen our compliance programme by engaging 
with others to improve our understanding of modern 
slavery and to benchmark our processes and practices.
Building on our external engagement in 2017, we aim 
to increase interaction with our supply chain, on fuel 
procurement activities and the supply of goods and 
services to the Group. We will continue to engage with 
our suppliers at higher risk of modern slavery and, going 
forward, seek to widen engagement across our supply 
base.
