 
 
 
 
 
 
Drax Finco plc 
19 October 2020 
NOT FOR PUBLICATION, DISTRIBUTION OR RELEASE IN OR INTO AUSTRALIA, 
CANADA OR JAPAN OR IN ANY OTHER JURISDICTION IN WHICH OFFERS OR SALES OF 
SECURITIES WOULD BE PROHIBITED BY APPLICABLE LAW. PLEASE SEE THE 
IMPORTANT NOTICES AT THE END OF THIS RELEASE. 
Drax Finco plc 
Fixed income investor calls  
*************** 
Drax Finco plc, a subsidiary of Drax Group plc, has mandated certain banks acting as joint 
bookrunners to arrange a global investor call and a series of fixed income investor calls on 19-20 
October 2020. 
An offering (the “Offering”) of €250,000,000 five-year (non-callable for two years) Senior Secured 
Notes (the “Notes”) may follow, subject to market conditions. If the Offering is completed, the 
expected issue rating is BB+ from both S&P and Fitch.  
If the Offering proceeds, we intend to use the expected gross proceeds (i) for general corporate 
purposes, which may include the repayment of indebtedness, and (ii) to pay estimated fees and 
expenses of the Offering, including Initial Purchasers' fees and commissions, professional fees 
and other associated transaction costs. 
There can be no assurance that the Offering will proceed or will be completed. 
Enquiries: 
Drax Investor Relations: Mark Strafford 
+44 (0) 7730 763 949 
Drax Media: Ali Lewis 
+44 (0) 7712 670 888 
 
Website: www.drax.com Note 
Cautionary Statement 
This release is being issued pursuant to Rule 135c under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as 
amended (the "Securities Act") and is for information purposes only and does not constitute a 
prospectus or any offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any security in the United 
States of America or in any other jurisdiction. Securities may not be offered or sold in the United 
States of America absent registration or an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. 
If the Offering proceeds, the Notes and related guarantees will be offered in a private offering 
 
 
 
 
exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act and will accordingly be offered 
only to persons outside the United States in compliance with Regulation S under the Securities 
Act. No indebtedness incurred in connection with any other financing transactions will be 
registered under the Securities Act. 
This communication is directed only at persons who (i) have professional experience in matters 
relating to investments falling within Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 
(Financial Promotion) Order 2005 as amended (the "Order"), (ii) are persons falling within Article 
49(2)(a) to (d) ("high net worth companies, unincorporated associations, etc.") of the Order, (iii) 
are persons who are outside the United Kingdom, or (iv) are persons to whom an invitation or 
inducement to engage in investment activity (within the meaning of section 21 of the Financial 
Services and Markets Act 2000) in connection with the issue or sale of any notes may otherwise 
lawfully be communicated or caused to be communicated (all such persons together being 
referred to as "relevant persons"). 
Any investment activity to which this communication relates will only be available to, and will only 
be engaged in with, relevant persons. Any person who is not a relevant person should not act or 
rely on this document or any of its contents. 
This announcement is not a public offering in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg or an offer of 
securities to the public under Regulation (EU) 2017/1129, and any amendments thereto. 
If the Offering proceeds, the Notes are not intended to be offered, sold or otherwise made 
available to and should not be offered, sold or otherwise made available to any retail investor in 
the European Economic Area (the “EEA”) or in the United Kingdom (the “UK”). For these 
purposes, a retail investor means a person who is one (or more) of: (i) a retail client as defined in 
point (11) of Article 4(1) of Article 4(1) of MiFID II; (ii) a customer within the meaning of the 
Insurance Distribution Directive), where that customer would not qualify as a professional client 
as defined in point (10) of Article 4(1) of MiFID II; or (iii) not a qualified investor as defined in 
Regulation (EU) 2017/1129 (as amended, the “Prospectus Regulation”). Consequently no key 
information document required by Regulation (EU) No 1286/2014 (as amended, the “PRIIPs 
Regulation”) for offering or selling the Notes or otherwise making them available to retail 
investors in the EEA or in the UK will be prepared. Offering or selling the Notes or otherwise 
making them available to any retail investor in the EEA or in the UK may be unlawful under the 
PRIIPs Regulation. Any offer of Notes in any Member State of the EEA or in the UK will be made 
pursuant to an exemption under the Prospectus Regulation from the requirement to publish a 
prospectus for offers of Notes.  
If the Offering proceeds, the Manufacturer target market (MiFID II product governance) will be 
eligible counterparties and professional clients only (all distribution channels). 
In connection with any issuance of the Notes, a stabilising manager (or person(s) acting on behalf 
of such stabilising manager) may over-allot Notes or effect transactions with a view to supporting 
the market price of the Notes at a level higher than that which might otherwise prevail. However, 
stabilisation may not necessarily occur. Any stabilisation action may begin on or after the date on 
which adequate public disclosure of the terms of the offer of the Notes is made and, if begun, may 
be ended at any time, but it must end no later than 30 days after the date on which the issuer 
received the proceeds of the issue, or no later than 60 days after the date of the allotment of the 
Notes, whichever is earlier. Any stabilisation action or over-allotment must be conducted by the 
 
 
 
 
stabilising manager (or person(s) acting on behalf of the stabilising manager) in accordance with 
all applicable laws and rules. 
Forward Looking Statements 
This release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the securities laws of 
certain applicable jurisdictions. These forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of 
forward-looking terminology, including, but not limited to, terms such as "aim", "anticipate", 
"assume", "believe", "continue", "could", "estimate", "expect", "forecast", "guidance", "intend", 
"may", "outlook", "plan", "predict", "project", "should", "will" or "would" or, in each case, their 
negative, or other variations or comparable terminology. These forward-looking statements 
include, but are not limited to, all statements other than statements of historical facts and include 
statements regarding Drax's intentions, beliefs or current expectations concerning, among other 
things, Drax's future financial conditions and performance, results of operations and liquidity, 
strategy, plans, objectives, prospects, growth, goals and targets, future developments in the 
markets in which Drax participate or are seeking to participate, and anticipated regulatory 
changes in the industry in which Drax operate. By their nature, forward-looking statements involve 
known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors because they relate to events and 
depend on circumstances that may or may not occur in the future. Readers are cautioned that 
forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are based on numerous 
assumptions. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers should not rely on forward looking 
statements as a prediction of actual results. 
END 
 
 
 
 
 
