Abergelli Power Project 
A proposal to build a gas-fired 
power station at Abergelli 
Farm, Felindre, Swansea
Abergelli Power Limited
January 2018
The Project
Abergelli Power Limited (APL) proposes to develop a  
gas-fired power station on land adjacent to the Felindre 
Gas Compressor Station at Abergelli Farm, Felindre, 
Swansea (the “Project”). The Project includes a Power 
Generation Plant and its electrical and gas connections. 
The Project would have a rated electrical output of up to 
299 MW.
The Project was taken through the first stages of the 
Development Consent Order (“DCO”) consultation 
process in 2014. However, in March 2015, it was put on 
hold due to market uncertainty. Under the new ownership 
of the British energy company Drax Group plc, the Project 
is now once again being taken forward.
The Power Generation Plant will be capable of generating 
up to 299 MW of electricity, enough to power the 
equivalent of 150,000 households. Using the latest and 
most efficient power generating technology, it will burn 
natural gas to generate electricity that is delivered into 
the National Grid. The Project is intended to provide 
back-up power to the National Grid and support the 
Government’s drive to a low carbon economy.  
More information on the Project can be found at  
www.abergellipower.co.uk. 
Subject to public consultation, planning and market 
conditions, the power station could enter into operation in 
2022. It would create up to 150 jobs during construction, 
up to 15 full time skilled jobs once operating and 
contribute millions of pounds into the local economy 
during the construction phase through local procurement 
opportunities.
Why Abergelli Farm?
The site at Abergelli Farm has two key advantages in 
terms of planning:
 l  The site is close to the national gas and electricity 
transmission networks; and
 l  National Grid encourages new electricity 
generation development in south Wales, close to 
the main sources of electrical demand in the UK.
Illustrative visual of the Power 
Generation Plant with a single turbine 
and stack. Additional visuals will be 
made available at the public exhibition 
and subsequently on the project website.
Stag Energy
Abergelli Power Timeline Alterations
Construction start
Mae adeiladu’n
dechrau
Commercial
operation
Gweithrediadau
masnachol
Statutory Consultation
Period
Cyfnod Ymgynghori
Statudol
2018
16 Jan – 19 Feb
16 Ionawr – 19 Chwefror
Statutory Public 
Exhibitions
Arddangosfeydd 
cyhoeddus statudol  
2018
7 Feb - 10 Feb 
7 Chwefror – 10 Chwefror  
2020
Submission of Application 
for Development Consent 
Order to Planning 
Inspectorate
Cyflwyno Cais am Ganiatâd 
Datblygu i’r Arolygiaeth 
Gynllunio
Q2 2018
Decision from 
Secretary of State
Penderfyniad gan 
yr Ysgrifennydd 
Gwladol 
Q3 2019
2022
Pre Application
Cyn Ymgeisio
Examination & Decision
Archwiliad a Phenderfyniad
Construction & Operations
Adeiladu a Gweithrediadau
Principal Elements of the Project
 
l  The construction, operation and maintenance 
of an Open Cycle Gas Turbine (also known as a 
Simple Cycle Gas Turbine) Power Generation Plant 
with a rated electrical output of up to 299 MW of 
electricity;
 
l  The Power Generation Plant will produce electricity 
from natural gas; it is designed to provide flexible 
back-up generation capacity, which can respond 
quickly and efficiently to short-term variation 
in electricity demand, intermittent output from 
renewable power generation and periods of system 
stress;
 
l  The Power Generation Plant could operate for up 
to a maximum of 2,250 hours in any given year, 
provided that the 5-year rolling average does not 
exceed 1,500 hours per year;
 
l  The Power Generation Plant will have one stack of 
up to 45m in height;
 
l  The Project will include construction of a new 
underground electrical connection to the nearby 
Swansea North Substation. The proposed DCO 
application will not include powers to authorise 
construction of the electrical connection, but will 
include powers of compulsory acquisition for land 
and rights required for the electrical connection, as 
discussed under Planning and Public Consultation 
below.
 
l  The Project will include the construction of a 
new underground pipeline to bring natural gas 
to the Power Generation Plant from the National 
Gas Transmission System. The proposed DCO 
application will not include powers to authorise 
construction of the gas connection but will include 
powers of compulsory acquisition for land and 
rights required for the gas connection, as discussed 
under Planning and Public Consultation below. 
 
l  Extension to an existing access road from the 
B4489; 
 
l Ecological Mitigation Area;
 
l  The Project will create approximately 150 jobs 
during a construction period lasting two years 
and up to 15 permanent jobs once the project is 
operational; 
 
l  The plant could become operational in 2022, 
subject to public consultation, planning and market 
conditions.
Planning and Public Consultation
The capacity of the Power Generation Plant will be up 
to 299 MW of electricity and is classified as a Nationally 
Significant Infrastructure Project (NSIP) under the 
Planning Act 2008, which means that a DCO is required 
to construct, operate and maintain it. A DCO application 
is submitted to the Secretary of State for Business, Energy 
and Industrial Strategy (the “Secretary of State”) via the 
Planning Inspectorate. The proposals will be examined by 
an Examining Authority (appointed by the Secretary of 
State), who will make a recommendation for decision by 
the Secretary of State. 
In the context of generating stations in Wales which are 
below 350 MW generating capacity, the Planning Act 
2008 restricts what can be applied for through the DCO 
process to development that is integral to and forms part 
of the NSIP. For the Project, the integral elements are the 
Power Generation Plant, the Laydown Area/Maintenance 
Compound and the Access Road.
In this case, the DCO application will not seek consent to 
construct and operate the gas or electrical connections, 
instead planning applications will be made under the 
Town and Country Planning Act 1990 or permitted 
development rights will be utilised (as applicable). 
However, compulsory acquisition powers for the land and 
rights required to construct, operate and maintain the gas 
and electrical connections are proposed to be included 
within the DCO application.
Further information about the DCO application process is 
available on the Planning Inspectorate’s website (http://
infrastructure.planningportal.gov.uk).
Consultation with local people, businesses, and 
organisations is an essential part of the DCO application 
process and helps to inform the final design of the 
Project.
An initial phase of statutory consultation was held in 
October/November 2014, which was preceded by a 
period of informal consultation that commenced in May 
2014. During both consultation phases in 2014, APL 
shared its plans with local residents and businesses in 
a number of ways: the local media, information leaflets, 
exhibitions held at Llangyfelach, Clydach, Felindre and 
Tircoed, meetings with local councillors and via the 
internet. APL reviewed and responded to the feedback 
received and has taken the comments into account in the 
evolution of the Project. 
The various consultation activities during 2014 helped 
inform the Project’s development and led to APL’s  
decision to: 
 l  Reduce the number of stacks from a maximum  
of five to one;
 l  Change the maximum stack height from 40 m  
to 45 m;
 l  Consolidate the Generating Equipment Site to the 
north of the Water Main;
 l  Select an access route from the B4489 to the west 
of the Generating Equipment instead of the access 
route from the north; and 
 l  Select an underground cable option for the Electrical 
Connection, instead of an overhead line option. 
Additionally, APL has undertaken detailed technical and 
environmental studies, and associated design work to 
refine the design of the Project. 
A second phase of statutory public consultation will begin 
on 16 January 2018 and will end on 19 February 2018. 
This gives you a further opportunity to comment on the 
Project. 
APL is continuing to engage with bodies such as the City 
and County of Swansea (CCS), Natural Resources Wales 
(NRW), Community Councils and local Assembly Members 
and MP to ensure that the Project is designed, built, 
operated and maintained to the highest relevant and 
current safety and environmental standards and to gather 
feedback from the local community. 
Reproduced from the Ordnance Survey Map with permission of the Controller of Her Majesty's Stationery Office. © Crown Copyright 2017. Carter Jonas LLP ES100004458
Path: M:\Land Assembly Services\04 Live Projects\J0008302
APL DCO\03 Technical\01 Order Limits\APL Project Elements Plan (Quarter Size) mxd
Client:
Project:
Title:
Scale:
Date: 06 December 2017
Drawn by: RBC
Dwg no:
@A4
Abergelli Power Limited
Abergelli Power Limited
Gas Fired Power Station
Site Location Plan
Two Snow Hill, Birmingham, B4 6GA
T: 0121 794 6250
1:15436
J0008302-17-15
carterjonas.co.uk
0
150
300
450
Metres
Project Site Boundary
400kv Overhead Electricity Transmission Lines
National Gas Transmission System
Indicative Gas Connection Route
Indicative Electrical Connection Route
Indicative AGI Location
Access Road Corridor Only
Ecological Mitigation Area
Electrical Connection Route Corridor and Access Road Corridor
Electricity Transmission Tower
Existing Gas Compressor Station
Existing Swansea North Electric Substation
Gas Connection Route Corridor
Generating Equipement Site and Laydown Area
Client:
Project:
Title:
Scale:
Date: 06 December 2017
D
b
RBC
D
@A4
Abergelli Power Limited
Abergelli Power Limited
Gas Fired Power Station
Site Location Plan
Two Snow Hill, Birmingham, B4 6GA
T: 0121 794 6250
1:15436
J0008302 17 15
carterjonas.co.uk
0
150
300
450
Metres
Project Site Boundary
400kv Overhead Electricity Transmission Lines
National Gas Transmission System
Indicative Gas Connection Route
Indicative Electrical Connection Route
Indicative AGI Location
Access Road Corridor Only
Ecological Mitigation Area
Electrical Connection Route Corridor and Access Road Corridor
Electricity Transmission Tower
Existing Gas Compressor Station
Existing Swansea North Electric Substation
Gas Connection Route Corridor
Generating Equipement Site and Laydown Area
Legend
Indicative plan showing the main elements of the Project
Project Elements Plan
Reproduced from the Ordnance Survey Map with permission of the Controller of Her Majesty’s Stationery Office. © Crown Copyright 2017. Carter Jonas LLP ES100004458
Path: M:\Land Assembly Services\04 Live Projects\J0008302 - APL DCO\03 Technical\01 Order Limits\APL Project Elements Plan (Quarter Size).mxd
The Need for Gas Generation 
The Government’s Overarching National Policy Statement 
for Energy (NPS EN-1) states that “...gas will continue to 
play an important role in the electricity sector – providing 
vital flexibility to support an increasing amount of low-
carbon generation and to maintain security of supply”. 
The Welsh Government’s publication ‘Energy Wales: A 
Low Carbon Transition’ states that “...in the short term, 
gas, nuclear and bio-energy will provide the energy 
to compensate for the intermittency in supply from 
renewable resources.” 
Natural gas is a reliable fuel source and is acknowledged 
by both the UK and Welsh Governments as being 
essential to support a low carbon economy and underpin 
the country’s energy security. Faced with closures of many 
ageing coal and nuclear plants across the UK, investment 
in reliable, low carbon technology is needed. In addition, 
gas provides back-up to power generation from 
renewable sources, particularly wind and solar power 
– which are increasingly prevalent, but intermittent, 
energy sources dependent on the wind blowing or sun 
shining. Modern gas-fired power plants are among the 
most efficient and cleanest forms of electricity power 
generation. The need for the Project is established 
through government policy and is therefore not being 
consulted on by APL as part of its statutory consultation 
for the Project.
Environment
APL’s steps to mitigate the effects of the Project on the 
local environment during its construction, operation and 
maintenance are a major part of the consultation and 
planning process.
Due to the nature and size of the Project, it is classified 
as Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) development 
and APL is undertaking an EIA which considers the 
potential effects of the Project. The Project falls 
under the Infrastructure Planning (Environmental 
Impact Assessment) Regulations 2009 (the “EIA 
Regulations 2009”) and not the Infrastructure Planning 
(Environmental Impact Assessment) Regulations 2017 
(the “EIA Regulations 2017”). This is because APL 
requested a scoping opinion from the Secretary of State 
prior to 16 May 2017. This means that, in accordance 
with the transitional provisions in Regulation 37(2)(a) 
of the Infrastructure Planning (Environmental Impact 
Assessment) Regulations 2017, the Infrastructure 
Planning (Environmental Impact Assessment) Regulations 
2009 will continue to apply to the application by APL for 
a DCO. 
For the purpose of consultation, APL has prepared an 
updated Preliminary Environmental Information Report 
(2018 PEIR) for the Project and a non-technical summary 
of the 2018 PEIR. 
The 2018 PEIR indicates the following potential effects,  
all of which will be minimised, where feasible, through 
the final design process and a number of control 
measures, including: 
 l  Transport – potential effects on the local 
network from construction traffic, confined to the 
construction and decommissioning periods; 
 l  Air quality, emissions and noise – potential effects 
resulting from construction activities and during 
operation of the Power Generation Plant;
 l  Visual effects on the historic environment – 
introduction of one stack of up to 45 m in height 
into the local landscape; and
 l  Local ecology – potential effects and opportunities 
to enhance local habitat through additional 
planting.
Community Benefits
This £100m Project would be a substantial investment in 
the area and would deliver significant economic benefits 
for a period of at least 25 years, including:
 l  Creation of up to 150 jobs during a 2-year 
construction period;
 l  Creation of up to 15 permanent skilled jobs for 
ongoing operation and maintenance of the facility; 
and
 l  Potential business opportunities for local suppliers.
APL will consult CCS on ways to bring wider social and 
environmental benefits to the surrounding area.
Your Views?
This consultation will end on 19 February 2018 and APL 
would welcome your views on or before this date. Please 
include your name and an address. Responses may be 
made public, subject to data protection laws.
APL would like to invite your views on:
 l  The Power Generation Plant, as currently proposed, 
including changes since the 2014 consultation; 
 l  The proposed route option(s) for the Access Road; 
and
 l  The preliminary findings of the assessment as to the 
likely significant environmental effects of the Project.
You can give your views to APL in a number of ways:
 l  Via FREEPOST Feedback Form, attached to this 
leaflet;
 l  At a series of exhibitions, to be held in the local 
area. Members of the APL team will be on hand to 
discuss the Project in detail with you;
 l  Via e-mail, freepost and telephone you can ask 
questions or make comments. See the How to Get 
in Touch section; and
 l  At meetings and briefings with your local 
representatives.
More Information Available
These documents can be viewed on the Abergelli Power 
website (www.abergellipower.co.uk) from 16 January 
2018.
The documents are also available for viewing free of 
charge from 16 January 2018 until 19 February 2018 at 
the following libraries (opening times vary):
 l  Swansea Central Library, Civic Centre, Oystermouth 
Road, Swansea, SA1 3SN, Tel. 01792 636464
 l  Clydach Library, High Street, Clydach, Swansea,  
SA6 5LN, Tel No. 01792 843300
 l  Gorseinon Library, 15 West Street, Gorseinon, 
Swansea, SA4 4AA, Tel No. 01792 516780
 l  Morriston Library, Treharne Road, Morriston, 
Swansea, SA6 7AA, Tel No. 01792 516770
 l  Pontarddulais Library, St Michael’s Avenue, 
Pontarddulais, Swansea, SA4 8TE 
Tel No. 01792 882822
Please note that the technical appendices to the 2018 
PEIR will only be available electronically at the above 
locations, but a printed copy will be available to view 
at the exhibitions. 
Next Steps
After the close of the Statutory Consultation, APL will 
have regard to all consultation responses received in 
taking forward the detailed technical and environmental 
assessment, and associated design work, in order to 
refine the design of the Project towards submission of the 
DCO application.
Exhibitions in the Local Area
Members of the APL team will also be present at four 
local exhibitions from 7 February 2018 – 10 February 
2018 to allow those who live in the vicinity of the Project, 
or those groups and organisations who may have a view 
on the Project, to find out more information and provide 
APL with any comments they may have. The exhibitions 
are shown below:
 l  Llangyfelach Church Hall, Swansea Road, 
Llangyfelach, Swansea SA5 7JA 
Wednesday 7 February, 16:00 - 19:00
 l  Forge Fach Resource Centre, Hebron Road, 
Clydach, Swansea, SA6 5EJ 
Thursday 8 February, 15:30 – 18:30
 l  Tircoed Village Hall, Y Cyswllt, Tircoed SA4 9QZ 
Friday 9 February, 17:00 - 20:00
 l  Felindre Welfare Hall, Felindre, Swansea SA5 7NA 
Saturday 10 February, 10:00 – 13:00
Copies of the Non-Technical Summary of the 2018 PEIR 
and this consultation leaflet are also available in Welsh 
translation on the Project’s website, and will be available 
to view at the exhibitions and at the libraries listed above.
How to Get in Touch
The contact details for APL are as follows:
Phone 
01792 957 026 
Email  
info@abergellipower.co.uk 
Website www.abergellipower.co.uk 
Post  
Freepost ABERGELLI POWER
Please include your name and address. Responses may be 
made public, subject to data protection laws.
Freepost Response Form
(Please complete in BLOCK CAPITALS)
Please post the completed response form (free of charge) by 19 February 2018 to Abergelli Power Ltd at the following address:  
Freepost ABERGELLI POWER 
Name:
Address:
 
Email:
I plan to attend the following exhibition events:
Llangyfelach Village Hall  
 
Felindre Welfare Hall  
 
Forge Fach Resource Centre, Clydach  
 
Tircoed Village Hall  
 
 
 
 
 
APL initially consulted with the local community and stakeholders on the Project in 2014. We have since taken into account further 
information and prepared a Preliminary Environmental Information Report that identifies potential benefits and impact. Do you have any 
comments on our findings? 
If you have any comments about the Project (in particular the proposed route option(s) for accessing the Project and the indicative layout 
of the power generation plant), or any other information we should be aware of, please share below.
How do you feel about this proposal to build the Project?
Supportive       
Neutral         
Opposed        
Undecided    
If you wish to provide further comment about the Project, please continue on additional sheets and forward to the freepost address or 
contact us via our email address info@abergellipower.co.uk. Thank you.
APL will use the personal information supplied in this feedback form solely in connection with the consultation process and the proposed 
planning application. Responses may be made publicly available, but personal details will be kept confidential. Respondents do not have 
to provide any personal information, but this information will help us to understand the range of responses, and to provide updates 
about the project and the outcome of the consultation. Where we use third parties to support this process, we may share the feedback 
form with them but only under obligations of confidentiality and data protection.
Did you comment during the previous phase of consultation?
Yes  
 
 
 
No, I wasn’t aware of the Project  
No, I didn’t comment for another reason   
(please share below)
Tear along here
Freepost ABERGELLI POWER
Fold here to stick before sending
