For further information, please visit www.theusipa.org or contact Jessica Marcus at JMarcus@theusipa.org. 
Assessing Carbon and Forest Impacts of Woody Biomass
Carbon Benefits of Using Biomass for Power Production
As the world has begun to address global warming in the latter part of the 20th century, a few
imperatives have emerged. The first critical component to reducing carbon emissions is to reduce 
the use of fossil fuels. Reduction in demand is one option, but modern society is dependent on 
energy in ways that demand reduction alone will not be enough.  Increased use of low carbon 
renewables and increased storage capacity is also necessary.
Biomass is critical to reducing reliance on fossil fuels and keeping the globe below 2 degrees of 
additional warming.  Other renewable technologies have limitations – storage, intermittency, and 
dispatchability, and do not provide flexible, on-demand power to support the world’s energy 
demands.  Biomass is a low-carbon, renewable energy source that can support and balance the 
grid alongside these other renewables and can directly replace fossil fuel use with minimal 
upgrades.
Biomass is also the only renewable that can achieve “carbon negative” power generation, 
through using biomass with carbon capture and storage (BECCS).  The International Panel of 
Climate Change (IPCC) has found that the earth’s temperature cannot be kept below 1.5 degrees 
of additional warming without BECCS.  
In addition to the carbon benefits, biomass  also supports sustainable forest best management 
practices and creates additional markets for forest products.  A strong forest products markets 
incentivizes forest landowners to keep their lands forested and to continue replanting, rather than 
converting to more valuable endeavors such as agriculture or commercial development.  
Sustainable biomass from the US South supports healthy forests and ensures secure, low-carbon 
energy systems.
Forest Production and Markets in the US South
The United States has a strong history of sustainable forest management.  The southern US
produces one-sixth of the global timber demand each year, yet US forest inventory has 
continually increased over the last 60 years even in the face increased development and 
population growth.1
This is due to strong markets for wood products, which encourage private forest landowners to 
keep their lands forested.  Working forests are prevalent across the US South and landowners 
manage their forests much like agriculture crops, where trees are grown with the intention of 
harvesting for wood products, particularly for the high-paying sawtimber industry.  
                                                          
1 Forest Inventory and Analysis National Program, USDA Forest Service.
For further information, please visit www.theusipa.org or contact Jessica Marcus at JMarcus@theusipa.org. 
2
Markets for lower-value products, such as bioenergy, are useful for landowners to clear their 
lands of wood fiber unsuitable for sawtimber following a harvest or for thinning in between 
harvests to provide larger trees more access to nutrients from the sun and soil.  Though the 
bioenergy market has grown quickly in recent years, the impact of the industry remains small.  In 
2014, fiber removals for the export pellet industry made up just 0.08% of total standing forest 
inventory in the US South.2  
The pulp and paper industry has experienced a decline for several decades due to the Great 
Recession and a global decrease in demand for paper products.  The US South has seen the 
closure of several paper mills, resulting in a surplus of lower-value fiber in these regions with no 
alternative buyer.  In some areas, the growth of the bioenergy industry has provided an efficient 
use for this fiber as a renewable fuel source.
Forest markets in the US South are complex and are impacted by economic conditions, weather 
conditions, landowner preferences, and a multitude of other factors.  Forest carbon, therefore, is 
directly impacted by these same factors, as harvesting, replanting, and forest management 
decisions are based upon market forces and the financial incentive provided by these markets. 
Key Themes to Consider When Assessing Carbon Emissions from Woody Biomass 
Modeling and reporting on carbon relies heavily on assessment of appropriate and realistic 
scenarios and assumptions.  Assessments of unrealistic scenarios only produce unrealistic results;
therefore, it is critical to use accurate inputs for any carbon model.  This holds true particularly 
for woody bioenergy production in the US South, where intricate forestry markets influence 
harvesting decisions and private landownership is the norm.  
To properly assess carbon impacts of woody biomass, five key themes are necessary. These 
themes relate to higher-level approaches to understanding US southern forest product markets 
and wood bioenergy pathways, as well as the specific analysis techniques used to model these 
systems. 
1. Market Effects: Southern forestlands exist in the context of and are influenced by a 
system of land ownership, regulations, taxes/policy incentives, and forest product and 
land use markets. Evaluations should consider the effects of and controls provided by this 
complex system.
2. Spatial Scale: It is most appropriate to employ a landscape-scale approach when 
assessing forest carbon cycling, stocks, and flows. Single-tree or plot-based perspectives 
apply overly restrictive boundaries which fail to consider that sustainable forestry is best 
assessed at the landscape scale which provides a more complete picture of the carbon 
cycle and forest resources.
                                                          
2 Forest2Market, Wood Supply Market Trends in the US South, 1995 – 2015, Nov. 19, 2015.
For further information, please visit www.theusipa.org or contact Jessica Marcus at JMarcus@theusipa.org. 
3
3. Time Scale: The timing of the carbon benefits of bioenergy should be compared to the 
permanence of fossil fuel emissions, and this comparison should be used to assess the 
true impact bioenergy has on total, long-term atmospheric carbon concentrations.
4. Assumptions: Proper counterfactual scenarios and alternative fates should be applied to 
bioenergy carbon impact assessments and in the context of basic harvesting and forest 
management practices. Analyses should recognize the following realities:
1. Bioenergy feedstocks are sourced from forests that are managed and harvested to 
produce higher-value products such as sawtimber.  The existence of bioenergy 
markets has little influence on management or harvesting decisions, as bioenergy 
is a lower-value product, providing only a small financial incentive.
2. Bioenergy markets provide an alternative use for lower-value wood fiber that is 
harvested during a sawtimber harvest or as part of sustainable forestry best 
management practices, but is underutilized or has no active buyer in the region.  
3. Diminished or skewed forest product markets (i.e. lack of small roundwood 
demand) leads to an aging forest resource, presenting forest health risks such as
senescence, disease, pests, wildfire, and others.
4. In the absence of demand for forest products, landowners are less likely to 
maintain their forestlands, opting to convert to a land use that will provide the 
revenue needed to pay property taxes, such as agriculture or commercial 
development.  
5. Technology Efficiency: Bioenergy carbon analyses should include appropriate details on 
energy pathways, including accurate end use energy conversion technologies and 
efficiencies.  
