NOT FOR PUBLICATION, DISTRIBUTION OR RELEASE IN OR INTO AUSTRALIA, CANADA OR JAPAN OR IN ANY OTHER 
JURISDICTION IN WHICH OFFERS OR SALES OF SECURITIES WOULD BE PROHIBITED BY APPLICABLE LAW.  PLEASE SEE 
THE IMPORTANT NOTICES AT THE END OF THIS RELEASE. 
 
 
 
 
1 
 
 
18 April 2017 
 
Launch of offering of senior secured notes due 2022 
  
Drax Group plc (“Drax”) today announced that its indirect wholly owned subsidiary, Drax 
Finco plc, has launched an offering (the “Offering”) of sterling-denominated senior secured 
notes due 2022, in an aggregate principal amount of approximately £500 million in a 
combination of fixed rate and floating rate notes.   
 
The proceeds, together with cash on hand will be used as part of a refinancing of Drax’s 
existing debt. There can be no assurance that the Offering or other financing transactions will 
be completed. 
 
 
Enquiries: 
Drax Investor Relations:  
Mark Strafford 
+44 (0) 1757 612 491 
 
 
Media: 
Drax External Communications:  
Ali Lewis 
+44 (0) 1757 612165 
 
Website: www.drax.com 
 
 
 
 
Cautionary Statement 
This release is for information purposes only and does not constitute a prospectus or any offer to sell or the solicitation of an 
offer to buy any security in the United States of America or in any other jurisdiction. Securities may not be offered or sold in the 
United States of America absent registration or an exemption from registration under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as 
amended (the “Securities Act”). The Notes will be offered in a private offering exempt from the registration requirements of the 
Securities Act and will accordingly be offered only to (i) qualified institutional buyers pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities 
Act and (ii) certain non-U.S. persons outside the United States in compliance with Regulation S under the Securities Act.  No 
indebtedness incurred in connection with any other financing transactions will be registered under the Securities Act. 
 
This communication is directed only at (i) persons who have professional experience in matters relating to investments falling 
within Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 as amended (the “Order”), 
(ii) are persons falling within Article 49(2)(a) to (d) (“high net worth companies, unincorporated associations, etc.”) of the Order,  
(iii) are persons who are outside the United Kingdom, and (iv) are persons to whom an invitation or inducement to engage in 
investment activity (within the meaning of section 21 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000) in connection with the 
issue or sale of any notes may otherwise lawfully be communicated or caused to be communicated (all such persons together 
being referred to as “relevant persons”). Any investment activity to which this communication relates will only be available to, 
and will only be engaged in with, relevant persons. Any person who is not a relevant person should not act or rely on this 
document or any of its contents.   
 
This announcement is not a public offering in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg or an offer of securities to the public in any 
European Economic Area member state that has implemented Directive 2003/71/EC, and any amendments thereto (together 
with any applicable implementing measures in any member state, the “Prospectus Directive”). 
 
Forward Looking Statements 
NOT FOR PUBLICATION, DISTRIBUTION OR RELEASE IN OR INTO AUSTRALIA, CANADA OR JAPAN OR IN ANY OTHER 
JURISDICTION IN WHICH OFFERS OR SALES OF SECURITIES WOULD BE PROHIBITED BY APPLICABLE LAW.  PLEASE SEE 
THE IMPORTANT NOTICES AT THE END OF THIS RELEASE. 
 
 
 
 
2 
 
 
This release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the securities laws of certain applicable jurisdictions. 
These forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology, including, but not limited to, terms 
such as “aim”, “anticipate”, “assume”, “believe”, “continue”, “could”, “estimate”, “expect”, “forecast”, “guidance”, “intend”, “may”, 
“outlook”, “plan”, “predict”, “project”, “should”, “will” or “would” or, in each case, their negative, or other variations or comparable 
terminology.  These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, all statements other than statements of historical 
facts and include statements regarding Drax’s intentions, beliefs or current expectations concerning, among other things, Drax’s 
future financial conditions and performance, results of operations and liquidity, strategy, plans, objectives, prospects, growth, 
goals and targets, future developments in the markets in which Drax participate or are seeking to participate, and anticipated 
regulatory changes in the industry in which Drax operate. By their nature, forward-looking statements involve known and 
unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that may or may not 
occur in the future. Readers are cautioned that forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are 
based on numerous assumptions.  Given these risks and uncertainties, readers should not rely on forward looking statements 
as a prediction of actual results. 
 
 
END 
