 
 
 
The Abergelli Power Gas Fired Generating Station 
Order 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
 
Planning Act 2008 
The Infrastructure Planning  
(Applications: Prescribed Forms and Procedure) Regulations 2009 
 
PINS Reference Number:  
 
EN010069 
Document Reference: 
 
 
4.1 
Regulation Number: 
 
 
5(2)(h)  
Author: 
 
 
 
 
Pinsent Masons LLP 
 
Revision 
 
Date  
 
Description  
 
0 
 
 
May 2018  
 
Submission Version  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
1 
 
 
 
CONTENTS   
1 
SUMMARY 
2 
2 INTRODUCTION 
14 
3 
POWERS OF COMPULSORY ACQUISITION UNDER THE PLANNING ACT 
2008 
18 
4 
PROJECT DETAILS 
20 
5 
LOCATION AND DESCRIPTION OF THE ORDER LIMITS/ORDER LAND 
20 
6 
NEED FOR THE COMPULSORY ACQUISITION OF LAND AND RIGHTS 
27 
7 
JUSTIFICATION FOR THE USE OF 
POWERS OF COMPULSORY 
ACQUISITION 
62 
8 
SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS 
65 
9 
HUMAN RIGHTS 
73 
10 
FURTHER INFORMATION 
74 
11 
CONCLUSIONS 
75 
 
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
2 
 
1. 
SUMMARY  
1.1 
This Statement of Reasons (Statement) relates to the Application by 
Abergelli Power Limited (APL) to the Secretary of State under the PA 
2008 for powers to construct, operate and maintain the Power 
Generation Plant, and compulsory acquisition powers for the Power 
Generation Plant, Gas Connection and Electrical Connection, on land at 
Abergelli farm, north of Swansea.  
1.2 
A Development Consent Order (DCO) is required as the Power 
Generation Plant constitutes an NSIP pursuant to section 14 and 
section 15 of the PA 2008 (as it is an onshore generating station in 
England or Wales of more than 50MWe capacity). The DCO, if made, 
would be known as the Abergelli Power Gas Fired Generating Station 
Order 201* (the Order).  
1.3 
The Power Generation Plant is an Open Cycle Gas Turbine (OCGT) 
peaking power generating station, fuelled by natural gas and capable of 
providing a rated electrical output of up to 299 Megawatts (MW). 
1.4 
The Power Generation Plant is part of the Project. The Project contains 
development that is considered by APL to be Associated Development. 
Associated Development is development that supports the NSIP, but 
which is not part of the NSIP. Section 115(4) of the PA 2008 limits the 
associated development for which development consent may be sought 
in Wales to very limited circumstances (which are not applicable to the 
Project). The application for development consent does not seek 
consent for any Associated Development.  
1.5 
The Project includes a Gas Connection which will consist of a new 
above ground installation (AGI) and underground gas connection (the 
Gas Pipeline). This is to bring natural gas to the Generating Equipment 
from the National Gas Transmission System. The Gas Pipeline will 
follow an approximate north-south route corridor, between the National 
Gas Transmission System south of Rhyd-y-pandy Road and the 
Generating Equipment Site. 
1.6 
The Project also includes an Electrical Connection which will consist of 
an underground electrical cable to export power from the Generating 
Equipment to the National Electricity Transmission System (NETS).   
1.7 
The Gas Connection and the Electrical Connection are considered by 
APL to be Associated Development and are therefore not part of the 
application for a DCO. This approach is consistent with paragraph 3.23 
of the decision letter for The Hirwaun Generating Station Order 2015 
where the Secretary of State determined that the gas connection and 
the electrical connection were not part of the generating station and it 
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
3 
was not therefore appropriate to include the gas connection and 
electrical connection in the DCO. 
1.8 
APL will submit a separate planning application for the Gas Connection 
to the local planning authority, City and County of Swansea Council 
(CCS), under the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 (TCPA 1990). 
1.9 
The Electrical Connection will be consented either through Permitted 
Development rights or a planning application to CCS under the TCPA 
1990.  
1.10 
It is anticipated that planning permission for the Gas Connection will 
have been granted prior to the end of the DCO Examination.  It is also 
anticipated that either planning permission or confirmation from CCS 
that permitted development rights are considered to be available 
(following the grant of a generation licence under the Electricity Act 
1989 and EIA screening) for the Electrical Connection will have been 
issued prior to the end of the DCO Examination.  APL is in pre-
application discussions with CCS in relation to the Gas Connection and 
Electrical Connection, and the relevant planning application(s) are 
expected to be submitted prior to the commencement of the DCO 
Examination.   
1.11 
Whilst the Application does not apply for development consent in 
respect of the Gas Connection or the Electrical Connection, the draft 
Order does include, pursuant to section 122(2)(b) of the PA 2008, 
powers for the compulsory acquisition of the necessary land and rights 
over land required for the Gas Connection and Electrical Connection. 
1.12 
This is also consistent with the Secretary of State's decision for The 
Hirwaun Generating Station Order 2015. At paragraph 3.26 of the 
decision letter for the Hirwaun Generating Station, the Secretary of 
State confirmed that compulsory acquisition powers for Associated 
Development could be included if the land is required to "facilitate" or is 
"incidental to” the NSIP. APL considers that the land rights required to 
construct, operate, maintain and protect the Gas Connection and 
Electrical Connection are required to facilitate the Power Generation 
Plant (which constitutes a NSIP). 
1.13 
Where compulsory acquisition powers are being sought (as here), the 
applicant is required by Regulation 5(2)(h) of the APFP Regulations to 
submit a statement of reasons (i.e. this Statement) with its application. 
1.14 
This Statement explains why it is necessary, proportionate and 
justifiable for the Order to contain compulsory acquisition powers, and 
why there is a compelling case in the public interest for APL to be 
granted these powers.   
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
4 
1.15 
The matters addressed in this Statement are summarised in the 
remainder of this Section (Section 1). This Statement should be read 
alongside the following:  
 
1.15.1 the Land Plans (Document Reference 2.2);  
1.15.2 the Order (Document Reference 3.1);  
1.15.3 the Explanatory Memorandum (Document Reference 3.2); 
1.15.4 the Book of Reference (Document Reference 4.3);  
1.15.5 the Funding Statement (Document Reference 4.2); and 
1.15.6 the Project Glossary (Document Reference 1.4).  
Powers of Compulsory Acquisition under the Planning Act 2008 
(Section 3) 
1.16 
Section 120 of the PA 2008 provides that a DCO may make provision 
relating to, or to matters ancillary to, the development for which consent 
is granted. Schedule 5 to the PA 2008 lists the matters ancillary to the 
development, which includes the acquisition of land, compulsorily or by 
agreement, and the creation, suspension or extinguishment of, or 
interference with, interests in or rights over land, compulsorily or by 
agreement.  
1.17 
Under Section 122 of the PA 2008 a DCO may include provision 
authorising the compulsory acquisition of land only if the Secretary of 
State is satisfied that the land is required for the development to which 
the DCO relates or that the land is required to facilitate or is incidental 
to that development (and one further criteria not relevant to the Project).  
1.18 
It is also necessary for the Secretary of State to be satisfied that there is 
a compelling case in the public interest for the inclusion of such powers 
in the DCO. 
Project Details (Section 4) 
1.19 
The Power Generation Plant would operate as an Open Cycle Gas 
Turbine ("OCGT") peaking plant designed to provide an electrical output 
of up to 299 Megawatts ("MW"). As a peaking plant, the Power 
Generation Plant would be required to operate when there is a surge in 
demand for electricity associated with a particular event or where there 
is a sudden drop in power being generated from other plants that are 
designed to be constantly operational (e.g. a sudden outage) (known as 
a ‘stress event'). The Power Generation Plant would also help to 
‘balance out’ the grid at times when other technologies (e.g. renewable 
energy sources such as wind and solar farms) cannot generate 
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
5 
electricity due to their intermittent operation and reliance on weather 
conditions. The Power Generation Plant is expected to operate for up to 
2,250 hours per year and 1,500 running hours rolling average over 5 
years. 
1.20 
The location of the Power Generation Plant is shown on the Land Plans 
(Document Reference 2.2) and the various components that comprise 
the Power Generation Plant are shown on the Works Plans (Document 
Reference 2.3). 
1.21 
The Gas Connection consists of the AGI (with new permanent access) 
and the Pipeline. The Pipeline would follow an approximate north-south 
route corridor of approximately 1.4 km in length, to bring natural gas 
from the existing high pressure National Transmission System gas 
network adjacent to Rhyd-y-pandy Road (in the north of the Project 
Site) to the Generating Equipment Site.  
1.22 
The Electrical Connection would follow an east-west route corridor of 
approximately 900 metres in length, to connect the Generating 
Equipment to the National Electricity Transmission System at the 
Swansea North Substation via a 400kV underground cable.  
1.23 
More detail on these elements that comprise the Project can be found in 
Section 4 below and in Chapter 3 of the ES (Document Reference 
6.1.0).  
Location and Description of the Order Land (Section 5) 
1.24 
The Project is located on open agricultural land approximately 2 km 
north of Junction  46 on the M4, approximately 3 km to the north of the 
city of Swansea, approximately 1 km southeast of Felindre and 1.4 km 
north of Llangyfelach. The Project Site is within the administrative 
boundaries of CCS.  
1.25 
The Order Land comprises the land required for the Power Generation 
Plant, Gas Connection and Electrical Connection. The Order Land is 
shown coloured pink, blue and yellow on the Land Plans (Document 
Reference 2.2) and covers an area of approximately 35.52 hectares. 
This includes land temporarily required during construction. The final 
permanent land-take will be around 10.83 hectares. 
1.26 
The area required for, or to facilitate construction of, the Power 
Generation Plant extends to 5.68 hectares.  
1.27 
The area required for, or to facilitate construction of, the AGI extends to 
1.32 hectares. National Grid has advised that as the AGI will be part of 
the National Gas Transmission System, its requirement is for freehold 
land.  The final siting and design of the AGI is not yet approved, 
pending the grant of planning permission.  National Grid will require not 
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
6 
only permanent ownership of the direct footprint of the AGI, but 
sufficient land for access, landscaping and drainage associated with the 
AGI to be maintained.  Powers of compulsory acquisition are therefore 
sought over the whole 1.32 hectares.  Discussions are in progress with 
the landowner in relation to the voluntary acquisition of this land by APL 
for the purpose of the AGI.  
1.28 
The route of the Pipeline and its width varies to account for natural and 
man made features, but generally provides a temporary working width 
of 50 to 320 metres for construction. Within this working width, the 
Pipeline will be laid in a corridor of approximately 30 metres. The final 
permanent easement width will generally be 10 metres. APL is 
therefore seeking powers to create new rights over the land required for 
the Gas Connection in the draft DCO. 
1.29 
The Electrical Connection will be constructed adjacent to the Access 
Road within a 5 m working width. 
1.30 
APL is seeking compulsory acquisition powers to secure certain lands, 
rights and interests within the Order Limits in order to facilitate the 
Project.    
1.30.1 The land over which compulsory acquisition powers are 
sought in respect of the freehold is shown edged red and 
shaded pink on the Land Plans (Document Reference 2.2). 
This land is described in more detail in the Book of 
Reference (Document Reference 4.3). A summary of the 
status of negotiations, together with the reason for the 
acquisition, is set out in Table 2, at section 6. Article 19 of the 
DCO is relied upon in respect of this land.  
1.30.2 The land over which new rights (including restrictive 
covenants) are being compulsorily sought is shown edged 
red and shaded blue on the Land Plans (Document 
Reference 2.2). This land is described in more detail in the 
Book of Reference (Document Reference 4.3). A summary of 
the status of negotiations, together with the reason for the 
acquisition, is set out in Table 2, at section 6. Article 23 of the 
DCO is relied upon in respect of this land.  
1.30.3 The land over which temporary use only is sought, pursuant 
to Articles 29 and 30 of the Order, is shown edged red and 
shaded yellow on the Land Plans (Document Reference 
2.2). This land is described in more detail in the Book of 
Reference (Document Reference 4.3). A summary of the 
status of negotiations, together with the reason for the 
acquisition, is set out in Table 2, at section 6. Articles 29 and 
30 of the DCO are relied upon in respect of this land.  
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
7 
1.31 
Where APL is seeking either land or new rights over land, then 
temporary use of such land pursuant to Articles 29 and 30 is also 
sought. The reason for seeking temporary use powers over this land is 
that it allows the Applicant to enter on to land for particular purposes 
(including site preparation works) in advance of any vesting of the 
relevant land/rights. It should be noted that there are other Articles 
within the DCO that allow the Applicant to enter onto or otherwise affect 
land (see paragraph 5.5.2).  
1.32 
Article 21 of the Order gives APL the authority to use the Power 
Generation Plant and do anything authorised by the Order 
notwithstanding it involves the interference with an interest or right or a 
breach of a restrictive covenant. In this case, the interest, right or 
restrictive covenant would be overridden. 
1.33 
Pursuant to Article 24 of the Order, all private rights (excluding Statutory 
Undertaker rights which are addressed in Article 31 and are subject to 
'Protective Provisions'): 
1.33.1 over land the freehold to which is subject to compulsory 
acquisition are to be extinguished; 
1.33.2 over land subject to the compulsory acquisition of rights are 
to be suspended and unenforceable or, where so notified by 
APL, extinguished in so far as in either case their 
continuance would be inconsistent with the exercise of that 
right; 
1.33.3 over land of which APL takes temporary possession are to 
be suspended and unenforceable for so long as APL remains 
in possession of the land and so far as their continuance 
would be inconsistent with the exercise of the temporary 
possession of that land. 
1.34 
Part 3 of the Book of Reference identifies those plots where rights may 
be suspended or extinguished under Article 24 and where interests, 
rights and restrictive covenants may need to be overridden under Article 
21. 
1.35 
Article 31 gives APL the authority to acquire land and rights from 
Statutory Undertakers, and to extinguish or suspend their rights, and to 
remove or reposition their apparatus, subject to Protective Provisions in 
Schedule 11 to the Order.  
1.36 
The Project will also interfere temporarily with short sections of the 
following publically adopted highways during construction (APL is in 
active discussions with the Highways Authority in this regard): 
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
8 
1.36.1 The B4489, from which the Access Road is to be formed to 
serve the Project; and  
1.36.2 Rhyd-y-pandy Road, from which a new permanent access is to 
be constructed to serve the AGI only. 
1.37 
APL is relying on Articles 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 28 and 32 of the 
Order in order to enter onto streets and to lay and maintain apparatus in 
them, to construct new means of access and create temporary 
prohibitions and restrictions of the use of streets to carry out works. 
Where (as is the case with the B4489 and Rhyd-y-pandy Road) no 
compulsory acquisition of rights is required on, under or over streets, 
then the street is not shaded on the Land Plans (i.e. it remains white) as 
the aforementioned Articles will be relied upon. 
1.38 
Any interference with rights restrictions etc. over the Order Land arising 
from the exercise of any Articles in the Order which provide statutory 
access and/or use of land within the Order Limits are captured in Part 3 
of the Book of Reference.  
               Need for the Compulsory Acquisition of Land and Rights (Section                 
6.2) 
1.39 
APL has completed an option agreement over certain areas of the 
Order Land (plots 2, 3, 3A, 3B, 4, 4A, 5, 5A,  5B, 6, 6A, 7, 7A, 7B, 7C, 
8, 9, 11, 11A, 11B and 12) required for the Power Generation Plant and 
part of the Gas Connection and Electrical Connection.  
1.40 
However, APL is including this land within the Order Land to ensure that 
land assembly and title to it can be secured with certainty.  In addition, 
there may be unknown rights, restrictions, easements or servitudes 
affecting that land which also need to be overridden, removed and/or 
extinguished in order to facilitate the construction and operation of the 
Project without hindrance. 
1.41 
APL is actively seeking to acquire the remaining land, new rights 
(including restrictive covenants) over land and temporary possession of 
land (shown edged red and shaded pink, blue and yellow respectively 
on Land Plans) by private treaty, in order to ensure implementation of 
the Project. However, it has not yet been possible to acquire all of the 
land, the temporary use of land and the rights required by private treaty.   
1.42 
It is necessary to seek compulsory acquisition powers is to secure land, 
the new rights (including restrictive covenants) over land and other 
interests and the temporary use of land to enable APL to construct, 
operate and maintain the Project within a reasonable commercial 
timeframe. The inclusion of powers of compulsory acquisition in the 
Order is sought to ensure this can be achieved. In addition, APL 
requires certain rights and restrictions to be suspended, overridden or 
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
9 
extinguished within the Order Land so as to ensure there are no 
impediments to the construction, operation and maintenance of the 
Project. 
1.43 
Plots 8, 9 and 12 are permanently required (freehold) for the Power 
Generation Plant. Plot 10 is permanently required (freehold) for the 
ecological mitigation land. Plots 7A, 7B, 7C, 11A and 11B are 
temporarily required to construct the Power Generation Plant. 
1.44 
Plots 11, 13, 14, 15, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23 and 24 are permanently 
required (acquisition of new rights) to access the Power Generation 
Plant and for services. Plots 13A, 13B, 18A, 18B and 19A are 
temporarily required to construct the access road to the Power 
Generation Plant. 
1.45 
Plots 1 and 2 are permanently required (freehold) for AGI which forms 
part of the Gas Connection. Plots 3, 3A, 3B, 4, 5, 6 and 7 are 
permanently required (acquisition of new rights) for the Pipeline (also 
forming part of the Gas Connection). The permanent easement width 
would generally be 10m. The micro siting for the Pipeline will be subject 
to detailed engineering assessments. APL will only compulsorily acquire 
rights and impose restrictions over the minimum amount of land 
necessary to construct, use and maintain the Pipeline. Plots 4A, 5A, 5B, 
6A, 6B, 7A, 7B and 7C are temporarily required to construct the Gas 
Connection. 
1.46 
Plots 11, 13, 14, and 16 are permanently required (acquisition of new 
rights) for the Electrical Connection. The permanent easement width 
would generally be 5m. The micro siting for the Electrical Connection 
will be subject to detailed engineering assessments. APL will only 
compulsorily acquire rights and impose restrictions over the minimum 
amount of land necessary to construct, use and maintain the Electrical 
Connection. Plots 7C, 11A, 11B, 13A, 13B and 16A are temporarily 
required to construct the Electrical Connection. 
1.47 
In the absence of powers of compulsory acquisition, the Order Land 
may not be assembled, uncertainty will continue to prevail and APL 
considers that its objectives and Government policy objectives would 
not be achieved.   
1.48 
APL's justification for seeking compulsory acquisition powers, in 
accordance with the provisions of the PA 2008, is to secure land, the 
temporary use of land, the new rights (including restrictive covenants) 
and other interests required to enable APL to construct, operate and 
maintain the Project within a reasonable commercial timeframe. The 
inclusion of powers of compulsory acquisition in the DCO is sought in 
order to ensure that this can be achieved. The land and rights together 
with the land required for temporary use is no more than that is required 
for or to facilitate the Project, its construction and future maintenance. 
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
10 
Alternatives to Compulsory Acquisition (Section 6.6) 
1.49 
As part of a detailed feasibility assessment, APL looked at a range of 
sites around the UK to support power generation plants of the Project's 
nature. This search for potential power generation plant sites across the 
UK was focused on areas that were capable of meeting APL's strategic 
project development criteria. 
1.50 
In terms of technical constraints, the size of the site (i.e. large enough to 
support a power generation plant of up to 299 MW) and the proximity of 
a site to appropriate gas and electrical connection points were both key 
considerations. 
1.51 
From an environmental perspective, the site selection process had due 
regard to proximity to sensitive receptors, the current make up of the 
surrounding area, previous site uses and land quality and proximity to 
sensitive ecological habitats. 
1.52 
Based on the following factors, the Project Site was considered suitable 
for the siting of the Power Generation Plant:  
1.52.1 sufficient land available to accommodate a project with a 
capacity of up to 299 MW;  
1.52.2 close proximity to the National Transmission System (i.e. feeder 
28) to ensure a gas supply;  
1.52.3 close proximity to a suitable point for electrical connection to the 
National Grid Electricity Transmission System (i.e. Swansea 
North Substation);   
1.52.4 good accessibility;  
1.52.5 adjacent to land already developed for use in connection with 
the production, storage and transmission of energy (e.g. 
Swansea North Substation and Felindre Gas Compressor 
Station) land; and 
1.52.6 it avoids international and other designated environmentally 
sensitive sites.  
Justification for the Use of Powers of Compulsory Acquisition 
(Section 7) 
1.53 
The urgent need for energy generation, including gas fired generating 
stations and gas and peaking plants, are established in NPS EN-1, the 
Gas Generation Strategy (DECC, 2012), Energy Wales – a low carbon 
Transition (Welsh Government, 2012) and the National Infrastructure 
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
11 
Plan (HM Treasury, 2014). The Project would contribute materially to 
meeting this need. 
1.54 
Besides this considerable general public benefit, there would be local 
benefits arising from the Project. In particular, the economic benefit to 
the local area through the creation of the equivalent of 9 full time 
construction jobs (with a peak of 122 construction works predicted on 
site during construction) and up to 10 FTE permanent jobs during the 
operational phase, as well as other contracts during construction and 
operation (e.g. maintenance) which would be offered locally where 
possible.  
1.55 
Due regard has been paid to all relevant and important considerations. 
These include the findings of community and statutory consultation 
which have influenced considerations as to the design and siting of the 
Project, as documented in the Consultation Report (Document 
Reference 5.1.0). Local economic development and environmental 
policy designations have been considered in the design, siting and 
mitigation proposals within the Project. 
1.56 
The Project is in line with the relevant National Policy Statements, in 
particular NPS EN-1 and NPS EN-2. Considerations as to siting, 
Habitats and Species Regulations, alternatives, Good Design, 
consideration of CHP, grid connection, safety, health, nuisance and 
security have been given due consideration as demonstrated in the ES 
and its appendices (Document References 6.1.0 and 6.2.0), the Design 
Principles Statement (Document Reference 10.2.0), the Planning 
Statement (Document Reference 10.1.0) and the Grid Connection 
Statement and Gas Connection Statement (Document References 9.1 
and 9.2).  
1.57 
The ES has assessed all likely significant environmental effects and has 
proposed appropriate mitigation wherever feasible. These mitigation 
measures are to be secured through compliance with various submitted 
documents and further approvals regulated under the proposed 
requirements (similar to planning conditions) attached to the Order (see 
Schedule 2 to the Order).  
1.58 
As such, it is considered that there are no relevant matters that give rise 
to adverse impacts sufficient to outweigh the identified benefits of the 
Project. 
1.59 
In conclusion, and in line with the factors set out in Section 104 of the 
PA 2008, there is a compelling case in the public interest for the Order 
to be made in the terms proposed and in the absence of sufficient 
indications to the contrary. 
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
12 
Special Considerations (Section 8) 
Special Category Land – Crown Land 
1.59.1 No Crown interests are included in or affected by the Order 
Land.  
Special Category Land – Open Space 
 
1.59.2 No open space, common land fuel or field garden allotment is 
included in or affected by the Order Land. 
National Trust land 
1.59.3 No National Trust land is included in or affected by the Order 
Land. 
Statutory Undertakers Land/Apparatus 
1.59.4 There are various assets belonging to Statutory Undertakers 
and other pipeline and cable owners that lie within the Order 
Land, namely National Grid Electricity Transmission plc, 
National Grid Gas plc, Dwr Cymru Cyfyngedig (Welsh Water), 
Western Power Distribution (South Wales) plc, British 
Telecommunications, Wales and West Utilities plc, and 
Abergelli Solar Farm. 
1.59.5 APL is in discussions with all the Statutory Undertakers and 
apparatus owners identified above regarding the Protective 
Provisions that they may wish to see included in the Order, 
and/or other agreements that they may require to protect their 
interests, and is seeking confirmation there are no other assets 
belonging to them within the Order Land beyond those 
identified to date.  
1.59.6 In relation to British Telecommunications, APL will make contact 
immediately post-submission of the Application to enter into 
discussions in relation to British Telecommunications' position.  
The draft Order includes protective provisions for the benefit of 
Electronic Communications Code Networks in Schedule 11. 
1.59.7 In relation to the decommissioned oil pipeline owned by BP 
International Limited, it is not understood by APL that the 
pipeline is part of the undertaking of a statutory undertaker, 
therefore no protective provisions have been included in the 
draft DCO for the benefit of BP International Limited. 
Other Consents & Licences 
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
13 
1.60 
Other statutory consents, licences and permits will be required to 
construct and operate the Project. The document Details of Other 
Consents and Licences (Document Reference 5.4) lists those additional 
consents likely to be required.  
1.61 
APL considers that there is no impediment to these and other consents 
required being granted. 
Human Rights (Section 9)   
1.62 
The Order has the potential to infringe the human rights of persons who 
own property or have rights in the land proposed to be acquired 
pursuant to the Order.  
1.63 
APL considers that there would be very significant public benefit arising 
from the making of the Order for the Project.  That benefit can only be 
realised if the Order includes compulsory acquisition powers.   
1.64 
APL considers that there is a compelling case in the public interest for 
the exercise of such powers of compulsory acquisition.  APL considers 
that it would, therefore, be appropriate and proportionate for the 
Secretary of State to make the Order, including the grant of compulsory 
acquisition powers.   
Further Information (Section 10) 
1.65 
Owners and occupiers of property affected by the Order who wish to 
negotiate a sale or discuss matters of compensation should contact 
Susannah Crawford of APL (Tel - 0131 550 3380; email - 
scrawford@stagenergy.com).  
1.66 
Provision is made by statute with regard to compensation for the 
compulsory acquisition of land and the depreciation value of properties. 
Further helpful information is given in the series of booklets published 
by the Department for Communities and Local Government entitled 
"Compulsory Purchase and Compensation".  Copies of these booklets 
are 
obtainable, 
free 
of 
charge, 
from: 
https://www.gov.uk/government/collections/compulsory-purchase 
system-guidance.  
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
14 
2. 
INTRODUCTION     
2.1 
This Statement of Reasons accompanies an application made by 
Abergelli Power Limited ("APL") to the Secretary of State for 
development consent ("Application") under the Planning Act 2008 
("PA 2008") for the Abergelli Power gas fired generating station project 
(the "Project") on land at Abergelli Farm, north of Swansea in Wales.  
 
2.2 
The Project is a generating station with an electrical output which will 
exceed 50 MW. The Project is therefore a nationally significant 
infrastructure project ("NSIP") under section 14(1)(a) and 15 of the PA 
2008 and it is necessary for APL to apply to the Secretary of State for 
development consent to construct, operate and maintain the Project 
under Section 31 of the PA 2008.  
2.3 
The Application seeks the making of the proposed Abergelli Power Gas 
Fired Generating Station Order 201* (the "Order"). The Order is 
necessary so that APL has the requisite powers to construct, operate 
and maintain the Project, which is an NSIP for which there is a pressing 
national need. The Project itself has been the subject of an extensive 
consultation exercise. It is in line with national and local policy in 
respect of planning and energy generation.  
2.4 
The Power Generation Plant is an Open Cycle Gas Turbine (OCGT) 
peaking power generating station, fuelled by natural gas and capable of 
providing a rated electrical output of up to 299 Megawatts (MW). 
2.5 
The Power Generation Plant comprises: 
  
2.5.1 
Generating Equipment including one Gas Turbine Generator 
with one exhaust gas flue stack and Balance of Plant (BOP) 
(together referred to as the ‘Generating Equipment’) which 
are located within the ‘Generating Equipment Site’; 
2.5.2 
An Access Road to the Generating Equipment Site from the 
B4489 which lies to the west, formed by upgrading an 
existing access road between the B4489 junction and the 
Swansea North Substation (the Substation) and constructing 
a new section of access road from the Substation to the 
Generating Equipment Site; 
2.5.3 
A temporary construction compound for the storage of 
materials, plant and equipment as well as containing site 
accommodation and welfare facilities, temporary car parking 
and temporary fencing (the Laydown Area). A small area 
within the Laydown Area will be retained permanently (the 
Maintenance Compound);  
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
15 
2.5.4 
An Ecological Mitigation Area being an area for ecological 
enhancement within the Project Site; and 
2.5.5 
Permanent parking and drainage to include a site foul, oily 
water and surface water drainage system. 
2.6 
The Power Generation Plant is part of the Project. The Project contains 
development that is considered by APL to be Associated Development. 
Associated Development is development that supports the NSIP, but 
which is not part of the NSIP. Section 115(4) of the PA 2008 limits the 
associated development for which development consent may be sought 
in Wales to very limited circumstances (which are not applicable to the 
Project). The application for development consent does not seek 
consent for any Associated Development. 
2.7 
The Project includes a Gas Connection which will consist of a new 
above ground installation (AGI) and underground gas connection (the 
Gas Pipeline). This is to bring natural gas to the Generating Equipment 
from the National Gas Transmission System. The Gas Pipeline will 
follow an approximate north-south route corridor, between the National 
Gas Transmission System south of Rhyd-y-pandy Road and the 
Generating Equipment Site. 
2.8 
The Project also includes an Electrical Connection which will consist of 
an underground electrical cable to export power from the Generating 
Equipment to the National Electricity Transmission System (NETS).   
2.9 
The Gas Connection and the Electrical Connection are considered by 
APL to be Associated Development and are therefore not part of the 
application for a DCO. This approach is consistent with paragraph 3.23 
of the decision letter for The Hirwaun Generating Station Order 2015 
where the Secretary of State determined that the gas connection and 
the electrical connection were not part of the generating station and it 
was not therefore appropriate to include the gas connection and 
electrical connection in the DCO. 
2.10 
APL will submit a separate planning application for the Gas Connection 
to the local planning authority, City and County of Swansea Council 
(CCS), under the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 (TCPA 1990). 
2.11 
The Electrical Connection will be consented either through Permitted 
Development rights or a planning application to CCS under the TCPA 
1990.  
2.12 
It is anticipated that planning permission for the Gas Connection will 
have been granted prior to the end of the DCO Examination.  It is also 
anticipated that either planning permission or confirmation from CCS 
that permitted development rights are considered to be available 
(following the grant of a generation licence under the Electricity Act 
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
16 
1989 and EIA screening) for the Electrical Connection will have been 
issued prior to the end of the DCO Examination.  APL is in pre-
application discussions with CCS in relation to the Gas Connection and 
Electrical Connection, and the relevant planning application(s) are 
expected to be submitted prior to the commencement of the DCO 
Examination. 
2.13 
Whilst the Application does not apply for development consent in 
respect of the Gas Connection or the Electrical Connection, the draft 
Order does include, pursuant to section 122(2)(b) of the PA 2008, 
powers for the compulsory acquisition of the necessary land and rights 
over land required for the Gas Connection and Electrical Connection. 
2.14 
This is also consistent with the Secretary of State's decision for The 
Hirwaun Generating Station Order 2015. At paragraph 3.26 of the 
decision letter for the Hirwaun Generating Station, the Secretary of 
State confirmed that compulsory acquisition powers for Associated 
Development could be included if the land is required to "facilitate" or is 
"incidental to” the NSIP. APL considers that the land rights required to 
construct, operate, maintain and protect the Gas Connection and 
Electrical Connection are required to facilitate the Power Generation 
Plant (which constitutes a NSIP). 
2.15 
The Power Generation Plant will use Open Cycle Gas Turbine (OCGT) 
technology. It is designed to operate as a gas-fired 'peaking' plant and 
would operate when there is a surge in demand for electricity 
associated with a particular 'stress event' or where there is a sudden 
drop in power being generated from other plants that are designed to be 
constantly operational (e.g. a sudden outage). The Power Generation 
Plant would help to ‘balance out’ the grid during such times and when 
other technologies (such as wind and solar farms) cannot generate 
electricity due to their reliance on weather conditions. Further details on 
the Project are provided in Section 4 of this Statement.  
 
2.16 
Where compulsory acquisition powers are sought (as here), the 
applicant is required by Regulation 5(2)(h) of the Infrastructure Planning 
(Applications: Prescribed Forms and Procedure) Regulations 2009 (the 
"APFP Regulations") to submit a statement of reasons (this Statement) 
with its application. 
2.17 
This Statement is therefore produced pursuant to Regulation 5(2)(h) of 
the APFP Regulations and explains why it is necessary to acquire land, 
acquire and/or create rights in, on and over land, to extinguish or 
suspend rights in, on and over land and to temporarily use land for the 
purposes of the Project, if necessary by compulsion. 
 
2.18 
APL has had regard to the provisions of the PA 2008 and advice and 
guidance issued in relation to the PA 2008 in promoting its Application 
for Development Consent. Accordingly, this Statement takes account of, 
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
17 
and refers to, the Department of Communities and Local Government 
guidance ("DCLG"), 'Planning Act 2008: Guidance related to 
procedures for the compulsory acquisition of land' (September 2013) 
(the "Guidance"). 
2.19 
This Statement forms part of a suite of documents which accompany 
the Application for Development Consent. In particular, this Statement 
should be read alongside the following:  
 
2.19.1 the Land Plans (Document Reference 2.2);  
2.19.2 the Order (Document Reference 3.1);  
2.19.3 the Explanatory Memorandum (Document Reference 3.2); 
2.19.4 the Book of Reference (Document Reference 4.3);  
2.19.5 the Funding Statement (Document Reference 4.2); and 
2.19.6 the Project Glossary (Document Reference 1.4).  
2.20 
As described in Section 6 below, APL has a contract in place to secure 
some of the land required for the Project (this includes parts of the land 
required for the Generating Equipment and the Gas Connection). 
Negotiations are in progress with regard to the purchase of land, the 
acquisition of and/or creation of new rights and imposition of restrictions 
required over the remainder of the land required for or to facilitate the 
Power Generation Plant, 
the 
Gas 
Connection and 
Electrical 
Connection. Table 2 in Section 6 sets out the current status of 
those negotiations.  
2.21 
Although negotiations for the purchase of land, rights and interests are 
ongoing in respect of the remaining land and new rights required for the 
Power Generation Plant, Gas Connection and Electrical Connection, it 
is necessary for APL to seek compulsory acquisition powers to secure 
such land, rights and interests and to ensure that any third party 
interests or encumbrances affecting such land, rights and interests are 
acquired, overridden or extinguished pursuant to the Order, thereby 
ensuring that the Project can be constructed, operated and maintained 
in accordance with the powers sought under the Order. 
2.22 
For the reasons set out in Section 7 of this Statement, APL considers 
that there is a compelling case in the public interest, in accordance with 
section 122(3) of the PA 2008, for the making of the Order and the 
inclusion of powers of compulsory acquisition to enable the Project to 
be constructed, operated and maintained.   
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
18 
3. 
POWERS 
OF 
COMPULSORY 
ACQUISITION 
UNDER 
THE 
PLANNING ACT 2008 
3.1 
Powers 
3.1.1 
Section 120 of the PA 2008 provides that an order granting 
development consent (a "DCO") may make provision relating to, 
or to matters ancillary to, the development for which consent is 
granted. Schedule 5 to the PA 2008 lists the matters ancillary to 
the development. These include: 
(a) 
the acquisition of land, compulsorily or by agreement 
(paragraph 1); 
(b) 
the creation, suspension or extinguishment of, or 
interference with, interests in or rights over land, 
compulsorily or by agreement (paragraph 2); 
(c) 
the abrogation or modification of agreements relating to 
land (paragraph 3); 
(d) 
the payment of compensation (paragraph 36). 
3.1.2 
Section 122 of the PA 2008 provides that a DCO may include 
provision authorising the compulsory acquisition of land only if 
the Secretary of State, in respect of the application, is satisfied 
that: 
(a) 
the land is required for the development to which the 
DCO relates; 
(b) 
the land is required to facilitate or is incidental to that 
development; or  
(c) 
the land is replacement land for commons, open 
spaces, etc.1  
3.1.3 
Further, it is also necessary for the Secretary of State to be 
satisfied, in relation to the application, that there is a compelling 
case in the public interest for the inclusion of powers of 
compulsory acquisition in the DCO. This is required by section 
122(3) of the PA 2008.   
3.1.4 
In accordance with section 123(1) of the PA 2008, the 
Application includes a request for compulsory acquisition of the 
land to be authorised. 
                                                      
1 The provision referred to in this sub-paragraph is not relevant in respect of the Project.  
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
19 
3.2 
Powers of compulsory acquisition in the Order for the Project   
3.2.1 
Under environmental impact assessment legislation applicable 
to the Project, there is no general requirement to consider 
alternatives, only a requirement to outline the main alternatives 
studied by the applicant and an indication of the main reason 
for the applicant's choice. Furthermore, National Policy 
Statement EN-1 (NPS EN-1) advises at paragraph 4.4.1 that 
"from a policy perspective this NPS does not contain any 
general requirement to consider alternatives or to establish 
whether the proposed project represents the best option." 
However, NPS EN-1 makes it clear at paragraph 4.4.3 that 
where there is a policy or legal requirement to consider 
alternatives the applicant should describe the alternatives 
considered in compliance with these requirements.  
3.2.2 
As explained in Sections 6 and 7 of this Statement, APL has 
given careful consideration to the suitability of the Order Land 
for the Project. Chapter 5 of the ES (Document Reference 
6.1.0) sets out the main alternative options studied by APL. The 
Design Principles Statement (Document Reference 10.2.0) 
considers the alternatives in the design of the Project. 
Alternatives are also summarised in Section 6.6 below.   
3.2.3 
Having finalised the location for the Project, APL completed an 
option agreement for the following parts of the Order Land as 
shown on the Land Plans (Document Reference 2.2):  
(a) 
land for the Generating Equipment (plots 8 and 9 shown 
on Sheet 1 of the Land Plans);  
(b) 
land required for the Laydown Area (Plots 7B, 7C and 
12 shown on Sheet 1 of the Land Plans;  
(c) 
part of the Gas Connection (Plots 1, 2, 3, 3A, 3B,  4, 
4A, 5, 5A, 5B, 6, 6A, 6B, 7, 7A, 7B, shown on Sheet 1 
of the Land Plans).   
3.2.4 
However, APL is seeking compulsory acquisition powers to 
secure this land or new rights (including restrictive covenants) 
over it, to ensure that land assembly and title to all of the Order 
Land can be secured with certainty. In addition, there may be 
unknown rights, restrictions, easements or servitudes affecting 
that land which also need to be overridden, removed and/or 
extinguished in order to facilitate the construction and operation 
of the Project without hindrance.  
3.2.5 
In addition, APL requires the remaining land, legal interests and 
rights (including restrictive covenants) as shown on the Land 
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
20 
Plans (Document Reference 2.2) to construct and operate the 
Project (including the Gas Connection and the Electrical 
Connection), in a reasonable timeframe to enable the Project to 
be constructed and contribute to the need for energy supply.    
3.2.6 
Whilst land, rights and interests will be secured by agreement 
wherever possible, and negotiations continue with all identified 
owners, it is essential that compulsory acquisition powers are 
available to APL to enable the Project to be constructed at the 
earliest opportunity.   
3.2.7 
Powers are also sought to enable the use of the Order Land for 
the purposes of the Project and to ensure that any, for example, 
rights, restrictions, easements or servitudes are over-ridden, 
removed and/or extinguished.   
4. 
PROJECT DETAILS   
4.1 
APL is the Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) set up to develop the Project. 
APL is a wholly owned subsidiary of Drax Group plc.  
4.2 
It is intended that the Power Generation Plant would operate within the 
framework established by government under the Capacity Market. This 
is a key part of the government’s Electricity Market Reform and seeks to 
ensure that the UK has enough reliable electricity capacity to meet 
current and future electricity demand. Operation under the Capacity 
Market is subject to bidding into a competitive auction and it would be 
necessary for a DCO to be made in order to participate in this auction. 
Accordingly the design of the scheme and the terms of the DCO have 
paid regard to the need for a competitive bid. However, participating in, 
or being successful in, the Capacity Market is not a pre-requisite for 
APL to construct and operate the Project.    
4.3 
The main elements of the Project are described in Section 2 above. 
More detail on the elements that comprise the Project can be found in 
Chapter 3 of the ES (Document Reference 6.1.0).  
5. 
LOCATION AND DESCRIPTION OF THE ORDER LIMITS/ORDER 
LAND 
5.1 
Location 
5.1.1 
The Project is located on land at Abergelli Farm, Felindre, 
approximately 2 km north of Junction 46 on the M4, to the north 
of Swansea, Wales.  
5.1.2 
The Order Land is approximately 1 km south-east of Felindre, 
and 1.4 km north of Llangyfelach. There are no residential 
dwellings located within the Order Land.  
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
21 
5.1.3 
The Order Land and Order limits are identified on the Land 
Plans and Works Plans (Document References 2.2 and 2.3).  
5.1.4 
All of the land within the Order Land lies within the 
administrative boundary of the City and County of Swansea 
(CCS). APL commenced discussions with CCS in January 2014 
and since then has consulted with CCS on a range of matters, 
as documented in the Consultation Report (Document 
Reference 5.1.0).  
5.2 
Description of the Order Land     
5.2.1 
The Order Land (referred to as the Project Site in the ES and 
other application 
documents), 
covers 
a 
total area of 
approximately 35.52 hectares and encompasses all the land 
required for the construction, operation and maintenance of the 
Power Generation Plant, the Electrical Connection and the Gas 
Connection.   
5.2.2 
The Order Land is generally open land, parts of which are or 
have recently been used for agricultural purposes (e.g. sheep 
grazing) and horse rearing. The western extent is adjacent to 
National Grid’s Swansea North Substation (comprising a 400kV 
and 132kV substation) and encompasses part of the existing 
access road to the substation and the adjacent Felindre Gas 
Compressor Station.  
Power Generation Plant   
5.2.3 
The Power Generation Plant consists of the land required for 
the Generating Equipment, the Laydown Area,  the Access 
Road and Ecological Mitigation Area required to facilitate the 
Power Generation Plant.  
5.2.4 
The total area of land required for or to facilitate the Power 
Generation Plant extends to approximately 20.39 hectares 
(being approximately 3.44 ha for the Generating Equipment, 
5.13 ha for the Laydown Area, 3.83 ha for the Ecological 
Mitigation Area and 7.99 ha for the Access Road).    
5.2.5 
Plots 8 , 9 and 12 on the Land Plans (Document Reference 2.2) 
are permanently required (freehold acquisition) for the Power 
Generation Plant. Plot 10 is permanently required (freehold 
acquisition) for ecological mitigation land. Plots 7A, 7B, 7C, 11B 
and 11A are temporarily required to construct the Power 
Generation Plant.  
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
22 
5.2.6 
Plots 11, 13, 14, 15, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23 and 24 are 
permanently required (acquisition of new rights) for the Access 
Road and for services.  
5.2.7 
Plots 13A, 13B, 16A, 17B, 18A, 18B and 19A are temporarily 
required to construct the access road to the Power Generation 
Plant. 
Gas Connection 
5.2.8 
The area of land within the limits of deviation for the AGI 
extends to approximately 1.32 hectares, being plots 1 and 2 on 
the Land Plans (Document reference 2.2). National Grid has 
advised that as the AGI will be part of the National Gas 
Transmission System, its requirement is for freehold land.  The 
final siting and design of the AGI is not yet approved, pending 
the grant of planning permission.  National Grid will require not 
only permanent ownership of the direct footprint of the AGI, but 
sufficient land for access, landscaping and drainage associated 
with the AGI to be maintained.  Powers of compulsory 
acquisition are therefore sought over the whole 1.32ha. 
Discussions are in progress with the landowner in relation to the 
voluntary acquisition of this land by APL for the purpose of the 
AGI. 
5.2.9 
The Pipeline begins at the AGI, which is located in the far north 
of the Order Limits, on the southern side of Rhyd-y-pandy 
Road. The working corridor for the Pipeline during construction 
would vary between 50 and 320 metres in width depending 
upon the working area required.  
5.2.10 The approximate length of the Pipeline from the AGI to the 
Generating Equipment is 1.2 km. The route of the working 
corridor during, and its direction and width, varies to account for 
man-made and natural features, but generally provides for a 
working width during construction of 50 – 320 metres.  
5.2.11 The Pipeline itself will be laid within a 30 metre wide corridor. 
The Pipeline corridor runs north to south from the AGI to the 
Generating Equipment Site to the south. The final easement 
required for the Pipeline will generally be 10 metres in width.  
5.2.12 The route for the Pipeline crosses grazing fields bounded by 
one section of poor quality hedgerow (with gaps) (shown on the 
Hedgerow Plan (Document reference 2.9) and/or fence lines, 
one Public Right of Way ("PRoW") (LC35B) and two private 
farm tracks, as well as drainage ditches. The Pipeline will also 
cross the existing National Gas Transmission System in two 
locations.  
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
23 
5.2.13 Plots 3, 3A, 3B, 4, 5, 6 and 7 are permanently required 
(acquisition of new rights) for the Pipeline. 
5.2.14 Plots 4A, 5A, 5B, 6A, 6B, 7A, 7B and 7C are temporarily 
required to construct the Gas Connection. 
Electrical Connection  
5.2.15 The Electrical Connection will be laid within a route corridor of 
approximately 30 m in width during construction. The Electrical 
Connection will be approximately 900m in length.  
5.2.16 The route for the Electrical Connection coincides with the 
Access Road for approximately 500 m of the route length before 
it turns north towards the Substation. The maximum site area 
for the Electrical Connection during construction is 3 hectares. 
The final easement will be up to 15 metres where the Electrical 
Connection and Access Road coincide and 6 metres otherwise.  
5.2.17 It will be located to the southwest of the Generating Equipment 
Site passing through grass fields and following the southern 
boundary of the Felindre Gas Compressor Station, crossing a 
PRoW (LC117) before entering National Grid’s Swansea North 
Substation. The route passes twice under one 400 kV overhead 
lattice tower mounted transmission line and once under one 
wooden pole mounted 11kV overhead distribution line.  
5.2.18 The route crosses into National Grid land to the east of tower 
4YW251 heading towards the Swansea North Substation.  
Once within National Grid's land, the Electrical Connection turns 
to the north-west to run alongside the substation and parallel 
with the substation fence line.  
5.2.19 The route crosses a Local Transmission Service gas pipeline 
within the field to the east of tower 4YW251.            
5.2.20 Plots 11, 13, and 16 are permanently required for the Electrical 
Connection. Plots 11B, 11A, 13A, 13B, 16A, 17A and 18A are 
temporarily required to construct the Electrical Connection. 
5.3 
Description of the compulsory acquisition powers  
5.3.1 
APL is seeking compulsory acquisition powers to secure 
certain lands and new rights over land (including restrictions) 
within the Order Land to facilitate the Project.  
5.3.2 
The land over which compulsory acquisition powers are 
sought in respect of the freehold is shown edged red and 
shaded pink on the Land Plans (Document Reference 2.2). 
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
24 
This land is described in detail in the Book of Reference 
(Document Reference 4.3). Article 19 of the Order is relied 
upon in respect of this land.   
5.3.3 
The land over which new rights (including restrictive 
covenants) are being compulsory sought is shown edged 
red and shaded blue on the Land Plans (Document 
Reference 2.2). This land is described in detail in the Book of 
Reference (Document Reference 4.3). Article 23 of the Order 
is relied upon in respect of these rights.     
5.3.4 
The rights and restrictive covenants are set out in Table 1 
below. 
5.3.5 
The land over which temporary use is sought pursuant to 
Articles 29 and 30 is shown edged red and shaded yellow 
on the Land Plans (Document Reference 2.2). This land is 
described in detail in the Book of Reference (Document 
Reference 4.3). Articles 29 and 30 of the Order are relied 
upon in respect of this land and, as such, no compulsory 
acquisition of rights is sought over this land.  
5.3.6 
Where APL is seeking either land or new rights over land, 
then temporary use of such land pursuant to Articles 29 and 
30 is also sought. As such, although these parcels are shown 
as either pink or blue, in accordance with the above 
conventions, this land is also subject to Articles 29 and 30 of 
the Order.  
5.3.7 
This approach (of seeking temporary use powers over such 
land) allows APL to enter on to land for particular purposes 
(such as site investigations and preparation works) in 
advance of any vesting of the relevant land/rights. This 
should ensure that the land/ rights ultimately vested is/are 
the minimum necessary for the Project.  
5.4 
Private rights, interests, other rights and restrictive covenants 
affecting the Order Land to be extinguished, suspended or 
overridden 
5.4.1 
Article 21 of the Order, which is based on Section 237 of the 
Town and Country Planning Act 1990, gives APL the 
authority to carry out or use the authorised development and 
do anything else authorised by the Order notwithstanding 
that it involves the interference with an interest or right 
(meaning any easement, liberty, privilege, right or advantage 
annexed to land and adversely affecting other land including 
any natural right to support) or a breach of a restrictive 
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
25 
covenant. In this case, the interest, right or restrictive 
covenant would be overridden. 
5.4.2 
Pursuant to Article 24 of the Order: 
(a) 
all private rights over land subject to compulsory 
acquisition under the Order are to be extinguished; 
(b) 
all private rights over land subject to the compulsory 
acquisition of new rights under the Order are to be 
suspended and unenforceable or, where so notified 
by APL, extinguished in so far as in either case their 
continuance would be inconsistent with the exercise of 
that right; 
(c) 
all private rights over land of which APL takes 
temporary possession under the Order are to be 
suspended and unenforceable for so long as APL 
remains in possession of the land and so far their 
continuance would be inconsistent with the exercise of 
the temporary possession of that land. 
5.4.3 
Part 3 of the Book of Reference (Document Reference 4.3) 
identifies those plots where rights may be overridden, 
suspended or extinguished under Articles 21 and 24. 
5.5 
Public Highways   
5.5.1 
Within the Order Land, there are two publically adopted 
highways which will be affected during construction of the 
Project:  
(a) 
The B4489, from which the Access Road is to be 
formed to serve the Project; and   
(b) 
Rhyd-y-pandy Road, from which a new permanent 
access road is to be constructed to serve the AGI.  
5.5.2 
In respect of these public highways, APL is relying on Articles 8, 
9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14. 15, 28 and 31 of the Order in relation to 
street works to enter onto streets and to construct means of 
access and to create temporary prohibitions and restrictions of 
the use of streets to carry out works. Schedules 3 to 7 to the 
Order provide details of the works (including the location and 
extent) to the streets with reference to the Rights of Way, 
Streets and Access Plans (Document Reference 2.4). Where no 
compulsory acquisition of rights is required on, under or over 
streets, then the street is not shaded on the Land Plans (i.e. it 
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
26 
remains white) as the aforementioned Articles will be relied 
upon. 
5.5.3 
Any interference with rights restrictions etc. over the Order Land 
arising from the exercise of any Articles in the Order which 
provide statutory access and/or use of land within the Order 
Limits are captured in Part 3 of the Book of Reference 
(Document Reference 4.3).  
5.5.4 
Access along these two public highways affected by the Project 
will be maintained at all times during the execution and 
operation of the works and will not be materially affected by the 
construction of the Project. 
5.6 
Utility Rights 
5.6.1 
Article 31 gives APL the authority to acquire land and rights 
from Statutory Undertakers, and to extinguish or suspend their 
rights, and to remove or reposition their apparatus, subject to 
the provisions of Schedule 11 which contains protective 
provisions for their benefit. 
5.6.2 
Where the rights of utilities, in relation to their apparatus, are 
interfered with, steps will be taken to remove or reposition their 
apparatus so that utility services can be reinstated, maintained 
and operated.  Articles 31 and 32 of the Order will be relied 
upon in this respect. 
5.6.3 
APL has contacted the applicable Statutory Undertakers and 
has sought comments on the draft Protective Provisions in the 
Order. Discussions are ongoing in this regard, however draft 
Protective Provisions have been included in the Order 
submitted with the Application. 
5.7 
Other powers which may constitute an interference with land 
and/or rights over land 
5.7.1 
The Order contains the following additional powers which may 
constitute an interference with land and/or rights over land and 
as such are captured in Part 3 of the Book of Reference 
(Document Reference 4.3): 
(a) 
Article 16 – Discharge of water; 
(b) 
Article 17 - Authority to survey and investigate the land; 
and 
(c) 
Article 35 – Felling or lopping of trees and removal of 
hedgerows. 
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
27 
6. 
NEED FOR THE COMPULSORY ACQUISITION OF LAND AND 
RIGHTS             
6.1 
The matters to which the Secretary of State must have regard  
6.1.1 
Under Section 122 of the PA 2008, a DCO which includes 
compulsory acquisition powers may be granted only if the 
conditions in Sections 122(2) and 122(3) of the PA 2008 are 
met.  The conditions to be met are: 
(a) 
at Section 122(2), that the land is required for the 
development to which the DCO relates, or is required to 
facilitate or is incidental to the development; and  
(b) 
at Section 122(3), there is a compelling case in the 
public interest for inclusion of powers of compulsory 
acquisition in the DCO.  The Secretary of State must be 
persuaded that the public benefits from the compulsory 
acquisitions will outweigh the private loss suffered by 
those whose land is to be acquired.  
6.1.2 
In respect of the Section 122(2) condition, the Guidance (at 
paragraph 11) states that the applicant should be able to 
demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Secretary of State that the 
land in question is needed for the development for which 
consent is sought and that the Secretary of State will need to be 
satisfied that the land to be acquired is no more than is 
reasonably required for the purposes of the development.  
6.1.3 
In respect of the Section 122(3) condition, the Guidance (at 
paragraph 13) states that the Secretary of State will need to be 
persuaded that there is compelling evidence that the public 
benefits that would be derived from the compulsory acquisition 
will outweigh the private loss that would be suffered by those 
whose land is to be acquired. At paragraph 14, the Guidance 
states that in determining where the balance of public interest 
lies, the Secretary of State will weigh up the public benefits that 
a scheme will bring against any private loss to those affected by 
compulsory acquisition.   
6.1.4 
Further, paragraphs 8 to 10 of the Guidance also sets out a 
number of general considerations that the applicant must 
demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Secretary of State when 
justifying an order authorising compulsory acquisition.  These 
are as follows: 
(a) 
that 
all 
reasonable 
alternatives 
to 
compulsory 
acquisition (including modifications to the Project) have 
been explored (see paragraph 6.6 below); 
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
28 
(b) 
that the proposed interference with the rights of those 
with an interest in the land is for a legitimate purpose 
and is necessary and proportionate (see paragraphs 
6.2-6.5 below); 
(c) 
that APL has a clear idea of how it intends to use the 
land which it is proposed to acquire (see paragraphs 
6.2-6.5 below);  
(d) 
that there is a reasonable prospect of the requisite 
funds for the acquisition becoming available (see the 
Funding Statement (Document Reference 4.2); and  
(e) 
that the purposes for which compulsory acquisition of 
land powers are included in the Order are legitimate 
and are sufficient to justify interfering with the human 
rights of those with an interest in the land affected (see 
paragraphs 6.2-6.5 and Sections 7 and 9 below).   
6.1.5 
This Statement sets out the factors that APL considers 
demonstrate that the conditions in Section 122 of the PA 2008, 
and the considerations set out in the Guidance, are satisfied.    
6.2 
Need for Compulsory Acquisition (Sections 122(2) and (3) of the 
PA 2008)     
6.2.1 
As stated in Section 3 above, APL has completed an option 
agreement over the part of the Order Land. However APL is 
including this land within the Order Land in order to ensure that 
land assembly and title to the Order Land can be secured with 
certainty. APL is also including this land within the Order Land 
so as to ensure that certain easements and  other private rights 
identified as affecting that land are extinguished, so as to 
facilitate the construction and operation of the Project without 
hindrance (see the Book of Reference (Document Reference 
4.3)). In addition, there may be unknown rights, restrictions, 
easements or servitudes affecting that land which also need to 
be overridden, removed and/or extinguished in order to facilitate 
the construction and operation of the Project without hindrance.  
6.2.2 
In addition, to ensure that the Project can be facilitated, and the 
Government's policy in relation to the timely provision of new 
generating capacity is met within a reasonable timescale, APL 
requires the acquisition of a number of property interests in third 
party ownership and the grant of powers to facilitate acquisition 
and/or creation of rights (including restrictive covenants) and 
interests and to suspend or extinguish rights and other interests 
in or over land. 
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
29 
6.2.3 
APL has been seeking to acquire the remaining land, rights 
(and restrictions), and temporary use of land (shown edged red 
and shaded pink, blue and yellow respectively on the Land 
Plans (Document Reference 2.2) by private treaty, in order to 
ensure implementation of the Project. However, it has not yet 
been possible to acquire all of the land, the temporary use of 
land and the rights required by private treaty.  In addition, APL 
requires certain matters to be suspended, overridden or 
extinguished within the Order Land so as to ensure there are no 
impediments to the construction, operation and maintenance of 
the Project. 
6.2.4 
APL will continue to endeavour to purchase the land, the rights 
(and restrictions) and the temporary use of land, as well as 
secure the removal of matters affecting the Order Land that 
may impede the Project, by agreement wherever possible. This 
approach of making the application for powers of compulsory 
acquisition in the Application for the DCO and, in parallel, 
conducting negotiations to acquire land by agreement, accords 
with paragraph 26 of the Guidance. 
6.2.5 
APL's justification for seeking compulsory acquisition powers, in 
accordance with the provisions of the PA 2008, is to secure 
land, new rights over land (and restrictions) and the temporary 
use of land required to enable APL to construct, operate and 
maintain the Project within a reasonable commercial timeframe. 
The inclusion of powers of compulsory acquisition in the Order 
is sought in order to ensure that this can be achieved.   
6.2.6 
The land and rights (including restrictions) sought, together with 
the land required for temporary use, is no more than that is 
reasonably necessary to facilitate the Project, its construction 
and future maintenance, and is proportionate. The necessary 
powers, together with powers to suspend, override and 
extinguish rights and other interests in or over land, are 
contained in Part 3 and Part 5 of the draft Order which 
accompanies the Application. 
6.3 
Compulsory Acquisition of freehold        
6.3.1 
The intended purpose for which land is subject to proposed 
powers of compulsory acquisition in Article 19 of the DCO is 
summarised in Table 2.  This is described by reference to the 
numbered works set out in Schedule 1 to the Order and shown 
on the Works Plan (Document Reference 2.3) and by plot 
number as referenced in the Book of Reference and Land Plans 
(Document References 4.3 and 2.2). Table 2 should be read 
together with those documents.      
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
30 
6.4 Compulsory Acquisition of  / Creation of New Rights (including 
restrictive covenants)     
6.4.1 
A number of new rights (including restrictive covenants) are 
sought to facilitate APL and all persons authorised on its behalf 
to construct, use and maintain at all times both, during and post 
construction periods, the Power Generation Plant, the Gas 
Connection and the Electrical Connection. Such rights are 
described in the Book of Reference (Document Reference 4.3). 
The rights and restrictive covenants are set out in Table 1.  
Routes have been chosen to minimise adverse impacts on third 
party land. 
Table 1 
Class 
1 
Compulsory 
acquisition 
and 
the 
creation 
of 
rights, 
and 
the 
imposition 
of 
restrictions, 
for 
the 
installation 
and use of the 
authorised 
development 
Means all rights and restrictions necessary for the 
undertaker and / or those authorised by the undertaker: 
a) 
to enter on foot, with or without vehicles, plant and 
machinery for all purposes in connection with the 
construction, use and maintenance of a drainage ditch 
together with the right to construct, connect to, use, 
maintain, inspect, alter, remove, refurbish, reconstruct, 
replace, protect and improve a drainage ditch  
b) 
to pass and repass on foot, with or without vehicles, plant 
and machinery for all purposes in connection with the 
construction, use and maintenance of the authorised 
development 
c) 
to construct, use, maintain and improve a permanent 
means of access and to install, retain, use, maintain, 
inspect, alter, remove, refurbish, reconstruct, replace, 
protect and improve sewers, drains, pipes, ducts, mains, 
wires, cables, conduits, flues, fibre optic cables and other 
conducting media of whatsoever nature under and/or 
adjacent to the permanent means of access 
d) 
to pass and repass on foot, with or without vehicles, plant 
and machinery for all purposes in connection with the 
construction, use and maintenance of a safety barrier(s) 
together with the right to construct, use, maintain, inspect, 
alter, remove, refurbish, reconstruct, replace and improve a 
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
31 
Class 
1 
Compulsory 
acquisition 
and 
the 
creation 
of 
rights, 
and 
the 
imposition 
of 
restrictions, 
for 
the 
installation 
and use of the 
authorised 
development 
Means all rights and restrictions necessary for the 
undertaker and / or those authorised by the undertaker: 
safety barrier(s) 
e) 
to install, execute, implement, retain, repair, improve, 
renew, remove, relocate and plant trees, woodlands, 
shrubs, 
hedgerows, 
seeding 
and 
other 
ecological 
measures together with the right to maintain, inspect and 
replant such trees, shrubs and landscaping and the right to 
pass and repass on foot, with or without vehicles, plant and 
machinery for all purposes in connection with the 
implementation and maintenance of landscaping and 
ecological mitigation or enhancement works 
f) 
to install, retain, use, maintain, inspect, alter, remove, 
refurbish, reconstruct, replace, protect and improve 400kV 
electricity 
cables 
up 
to 
120mm 
in 
diameter, 
telecommunications and other ancillary apparatus and any 
other works as necessary together with the right to fell, trim 
or lop trees and bushes which may obstruct or interfere 
with the said cables, telecommunications and other 
ancillary apparatus 
g) 
to install, retain, use, maintain, inspect, alter, remove, 
refurbish, reconstruct, replace, protect and improve a high 
pressure gas pipeline of up to 250mm nominal bore, 
telecommunications and other ancillary apparatus and any 
other works as necessary together with the right to fell, trim 
or lop trees and bushes which may obstruct or interfere 
with the said pipeline, telecommunications and other 
ancillary apparatus 
h) 
to pass and repass on foot, with or without vehicles, plant 
and machinery for all purposes in connection installation, 
use and maintenance of a high pressure gas pipeline of up 
to 250mm nominal bore, telecommunications and other 
ancillary apparatus and any other works as necessary 
i) 
to maintain and improve the access track and to install, 
retain, use, maintain, inspect, alter, remove, refurbish, 
reconstruct, replace, protect and improve sewers, drains, 
pipes, ducts, mains, wires, cables, conduits, flues, fibre 
optic cables and other conducting media of whatsoever 
nature under and/or adjacent to the access track 
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
32 
Class 
1 
Compulsory 
acquisition 
and 
the 
creation 
of 
rights, 
and 
the 
imposition 
of 
restrictions, 
for 
the 
installation 
and use of the 
authorised 
development 
Means all rights and restrictions necessary for the 
undertaker and / or those authorised by the undertaker: 
j) 
Restrictions on erecting buildings or structures, altering 
ground levels, planting trees or carrying out operations or 
actions which may obstruct, interrupt, or interfere with the 
exercise of the rights 
 
6.4.2 
The intended purpose, for which new rights are sought under 
Article 23 of the Order, is summarised in Table 2 below.  This is 
described by reference to the numbered works set out in 
Schedule 1 to the Order and shown on the Works Plans 
(Document Reference 2.3) and by plot number as referenced in 
the Book of Reference and Land Plans (Document References 
4.3 and 2.2). Table 6.2 should be read together with those 
documents.        
6.4.3 
There is a need to impose restrictive covenants in relation to 
new rights required in connection with the Project.  
6.4.4 
Planning Inspectorate advice in Advice Note 15 (October 2014, 
Version 1) concerning the drafting of DCOs (paragraphs 26.1-
26.3) advises that it may be appropriate to include a power to 
impose restrictive covenants over part of the land which is 
subject to compulsory acquisition or use under the DCO. The 
Advice Note states that before deciding whether or not such a 
power is justified, the Secretary of State will need to consider 
issues such as proportionality; the risk that use of land above or 
below a structure could be sterilised if it has to be acquired 
outright in the absence of a power to impose restrictive 
covenants; or whether there is for example a policy of 
establishing a continuous protection zone for the infrastructure 
network which could be secured more efficiently with the benefit 
of this power. 
6.4.5 
The Advice Note states that the power to impose restrictive 
covenants over land above a buried cable or pipe, or where a 
slope contains artificial reinforcement has been granted in 
DCOs, and cites article 20 of the M1 Junction 10A (Grade 
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
33 
Separation) Order 2013 and article 22 of the Network Rail 
(Norton Bridge Area Improvements) Order 2014 as examples. It 
also advises that in order to enable the Secretary of State to 
consider whether the imposition of restrictive covenants is 
necessary for the purposes of implementing an NSIP and 
appropriate in human rights terms, applicants should be 
prepared to fully explain and justify the need for including such 
powers. 
6.4.6 
APL has had regard to this guidance in preparing its Order. 
Article 2(2) includes power to impose restrictive covenants in 
relation to land over which new rights are acquired. APL 
considers the imposition of such a power to be justified and 
proportionate in the circumstances of this case, in order to 
protect and preserve the integrity of the Electrical Connection 
and Gas Connection, which require the installation of pipes and 
cables below ground; to protect the apparatus from becoming 
exposed, damaged or built over; preventing operations which 
may obstruct, interrupt or interfere with apparatus and the 
exercise of new rights required; ensure that access for future 
maintenance can be facilitated; in the interests of safety of 
persons using or present on the subject land; and to ensure that 
land requirements are minimised so far as possible. Use of the 
land would be sterilised if the land above the pipes or cables 
had to be acquired. In the absence of such a power it is 
submitted that this is justifiable to protect the Project and its 
operation. Similar powers have been granted in the context of 
NSIP gas fired power stations including the Meaford Gas Fired 
Generating Station Order 2016 (article 18) and the Wrexham 
Gas Fired Generating Station Order 2017 (article 18). 
 
6.5 
Temporary possession of land pursuant to Article 29 of the Order 
6.5.1 
The intended purpose for which temporary use of land is sought 
pursuant to Article 29 of the Order is set out in Table 2 in 
respect of the "yellow" land shown on the Land Plans 
(Document Reference 2.2). This is described by reference to 
the numbered works set out in Schedule 1 to the Order and 
shown on the Works Plan (Document Reference 2.3) and by 
plot number as referenced in the Book of Reference and Land 
Plans (Document References 4.3 and 2.2).  Table 2 should be 
read together with those documents. 
6.5.2 
The yellow land referred to in Table 2 is identified in Schedule 9 
to the Order as land which is subject to temporary use pursuant 
to Article 29.  
 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
34 
 
Table 2 
Land in respect of which powers of compulsory acquisition or temporary possession are sought 
Plot No. Work 
No. 
Reason for 
acquisition or 
possession 
Category of rights 
sought 
Owner / occupier  
Status of negotiations 
1 
- 
Freehold acquisition 
of land for the AGI 
Not applicable – 
freehold acquisition 
sought (pink land) 
Sarah 
Ann 
Marina 
Llewellyn 
An option agreement was concluded 
on 26 June 2014 with the owner (the 
“Option 
Agreement”) 
for 
the 
acquisition of the AGI area by way of 
long term lease agreement. A meeting 
was held with the owners and their 
representatives on 11th May 2018 to 
update the owners on the project 
design and to commence discussion 
for freehold acquisition of Plot 1 by 
way 
of 
variation 
to 
the Option 
Agreement. 
2 
- 
Freehold acquisition 
of land for the AGI 
Not applicable – 
freehold acquisition 
sought (pink land) 
Sarah 
Ann 
Marina 
Llewellyn 
Bryan Emyr Llewellyn 
Alaine Francis 
Paul Marsh 
Meidwen May Thomas 
An option agreement was concluded 
on 26 June 2014 with the owners (the 
“Option 
Agreement”) 
for 
the 
acquisition of the AGI area by way of 
long term lease agreement. A meeting 
was held with the owners and their 
representatives on 11th May 2018 to 
update the owners on the project 
design and to commence discussion 
for freehold acquisition of Plot 2 by 
way 
of 
variation 
to 
the Option 
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
35 
Land in respect of which powers of compulsory acquisition or temporary possession are sought 
Plot No. Work 
No. 
Reason for 
acquisition or 
possession 
Category of rights 
sought 
Owner / occupier  
Status of negotiations 
Teifion Henry Thomas 
Agreement. 
3 
- 
Acquisition of new 
rights (and imposition 
of restrictions) for the 
Pipeline 
(a), (g), (h) and (j)  
Sarah 
Ann 
Marina 
Llewellyn 
Bryan Emyr Llewellyn 
Alaine Francis 
Paul Marsh 
Meidwen May Thomas 
Teifion Henry Thomas 
The rights have been secured by 
agreement between the owners and 
the Applicant by option agreement 
dated 26 June 2014 (the “Option 
Agreement”). The Option Agreement 
provides permanent and temporary 
rights over the owners’ land in respect 
of the Pipeline. 
3A 
- 
Acquisition of new 
rights (and imposition 
of 
restrictions) 
for 
drainage 
and 
landscaping 
in 
relation to the Gas 
Connection 
(a), (e) and (g) 
Sarah 
Ann 
Marina 
Llewellyn 
Bryan Emyr Llewellyn 
Alaine Francis 
Paul Marsh 
The rights have been secured by 
agreement between the owners and 
the Applicant by option agreement 
dated 26 June 2014 (the “Option 
Agreement”). The Option Agreement 
provides permanent and temporary 
rights over the owners’ land in respect 
of the Gas  Connection. 
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
36 
Land in respect of which powers of compulsory acquisition or temporary possession are sought 
Plot No. Work 
No. 
Reason for 
acquisition or 
possession 
Category of rights 
sought 
Owner / occupier  
Status of negotiations 
Meidwen May Thomas 
Teifion Henry Thomas 
3B 
- 
Acquisition of new 
rights (and imposition 
of 
restrictions) 
for 
drainage 
and 
landscaping 
in 
relation to the Gas 
Connection 
(a) and (e) 
Sarah 
Ann 
Marina 
Llewellyn 
Bryan Emyr Llewellyn 
Alaine Francis 
Paul Marsh 
Meidwen May Thomas 
Teifion Henry Thomas 
The rights have been secured by 
agreement between the owners and 
the Applicant by option agreement 
dated 26 June 2014 (the “Option 
Agreement”). The Option Agreement 
provides full rights to permanent and 
temporary rights over the owners’ 
land 
in 
respect 
of 
the 
Gas 
Connection. 
4 
- 
Acquisition of new 
rights (and imposition 
of restrictions) for the 
Pipeline  
(a), (g), (h) and (j) 
Sarah 
Ann 
Marina 
Llewellyn 
Eric Davies 
Bryan Emyr Llewellyn 
The rights have been secured by 
agreement between the owners and 
the Applicant by option agreement 
dated 26 June 2014 (the “Option 
Agreement”). The Option Agreement 
provides permanent and temporary 
rights over the owners’ land in respect 
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
37 
Land in respect of which powers of compulsory acquisition or temporary possession are sought 
Plot No. Work 
No. 
Reason for 
acquisition or 
possession 
Category of rights 
sought 
Owner / occupier  
Status of negotiations 
Alaine Francis 
Paul Marsh 
Meidwen May Thomas 
Teifion Henry Thomas 
of the Pipeline. 
4A 
- 
Temporary 
use 
to 
facilitate construction 
of 
the 
Gas 
Connection  
Not applicable  - 
temporary 
possession powers 
sought 
Sarah 
Ann 
Marina 
Llewellyn 
Eric Davies 
Bryan Emyr Llewellyn 
Alaine Francis 
Paul Marsh 
Meidwen May Thomas 
Teifion Henry Thomas 
The rights have been secured by 
agreement between the owners and 
the Applicant by option agreement 
dated 26 June 2014 (the “Option 
Agreement”). The Option Agreement 
provides permanent and temporary 
rights over the owners’ land in respect 
of the Gas Connection. 
5 
- 
Acquisition of new 
rights (and imposition 
(a), (g), (h) and (j) 
Sarah 
Ann 
Marina The rights have been secured by 
agreement between the owners and 
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
38 
Land in respect of which powers of compulsory acquisition or temporary possession are sought 
Plot No. Work 
No. 
Reason for 
acquisition or 
possession 
Category of rights 
sought 
Owner / occupier  
Status of negotiations 
of restrictions) for the 
Pipeline 
Llewellyn 
Eric Davies 
Bryan Emyr Llewellyn 
Alaine Francis 
Paul Marsh 
Meidwen May Thomas 
Teifion Henry Thomas 
the Applicant by option agreement 
dated 26 June 2014 (the “Option 
Agreement”). The Option Agreement 
provides permanent and temporary 
rights over the owners’ land in respect 
of the Pipeline. 
5A 
- 
Temporary 
use 
to 
facilitate construction 
of 
the 
Gas 
Connection 
Not applicable  - 
temporary 
possession powers 
sought 
Sarah 
Ann 
Marina 
Llewellyn 
Eric Davies 
Bryan Emyr Llewellyn 
Alaine Francis 
Paul Marsh 
The rights have been secured by 
agreement between the owners and 
the Applicant by option agreement 
dated 26 June 2014 (the “Option 
Agreement”). The Option Agreement 
provides permanent and temporary 
rights over the owners’ land in respect 
of the Gas Connection. 
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
39 
Land in respect of which powers of compulsory acquisition or temporary possession are sought 
Plot No. Work 
No. 
Reason for 
acquisition or 
possession 
Category of rights 
sought 
Owner / occupier  
Status of negotiations 
Meidwen May Thomas 
Teifion Henry Thomas 
5B 
- 
Temporary 
use 
to 
facilitate construction 
of 
the 
Gas 
Connection 
Not applicable  - 
temporary 
possession powers 
sought 
Sarah 
Ann 
Marina 
Llewellyn 
Eric Davies 
Bryan Emyr Llewellyn 
Alaine Francis 
Paul Marsh 
Meidwen May Thomas 
Teifion Henry Thomas 
The rights have been secured by 
agreement between the owners and 
the Applicant by option agreement 
dated 26 June 2014 (the “Option 
Agreement”). The Option Agreement 
provides permanent and temporary 
rights over the owners’ land in respect 
of the Gas Connection. 
6 
- 
Acquisition of new 
rights (and imposition 
of restrictions) for the 
Pipeline 
(a), (g), (h) and (j) 
Sarah 
Ann 
Marina 
Llewellyn 
Bryan Emyr Llewellyn 
The rights have been secured by 
agreement between the owners and 
the Applicant by option agreement 
dated 26 June 2014 (the “Option 
Agreement”). The Option Agreement 
provides permanent and temporary 
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
40 
Land in respect of which powers of compulsory acquisition or temporary possession are sought 
Plot No. Work 
No. 
Reason for 
acquisition or 
possession 
Category of rights 
sought 
Owner / occupier  
Status of negotiations 
Alaine Francis 
Paul Marsh 
Meidwen May Thomas 
Teifion Henry Thomas 
rights over the owners’ land in respect 
of the Pipeline. 
6A 
- 
Temporary 
use 
to 
facilitate construction 
of 
the 
Gas 
Connection 
Not applicable  - 
temporary 
possession powers 
sought 
Sarah 
Ann 
Marina 
Llewellyn 
Bryan Emyr Llewellyn 
Alaine Francis 
Paul Marsh 
Meidwen May Thomas 
Teifion Henry Thomas 
The rights have been secured by 
agreement between the owners and 
the Applicant by option agreement 
dated 26 June 2014 (the “Option 
Agreement”). The Option Agreement 
provides permanent and temporary 
rights over the owner’s land in respect 
of the Gas Connection. 
6B 
- 
Temporary 
use 
to 
facilitate construction 
of 
the 
Gas 
Connection 
Not applicable  - 
temporary 
possession powers 
Sarah 
Ann 
Marina 
Llewellyn 
The rights have been secured by 
agreement between the owners and 
the Applicant by option agreement 
dated 26 June 2014 (the “Option 
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
41 
Land in respect of which powers of compulsory acquisition or temporary possession are sought 
Plot No. Work 
No. 
Reason for 
acquisition or 
possession 
Category of rights 
sought 
Owner / occupier  
Status of negotiations 
sought 
Bryan Emyr Llewellyn 
Alaine Francis 
Paul Marsh 
Meidwen May Thomas 
Teifion Henry Thomas 
Agreement”). The Option Agreement 
provides permanent and temporary 
rights over the owners’ land in respect 
of the Gas Connection. 
7 
3 
Acquisition of new 
rights (and imposition 
of restrictions) for the 
Pipeline  
(a), (g), (h) and (j) 
Sarah 
Ann 
Marina 
Llewellyn 
Eric Davies 
Bryan Emyr Llewellyn 
Alaine Francis 
Paul Marsh 
Meidwen May Thomas 
Teifion Henry Thomas 
The rights have been secured by 
agreement between the owners and 
the Applicant by option agreement 
dated 26 June 2014 (the “Option 
Agreement”). The Option Agreement 
provides permanent and temporary 
rights over the owners’ land in respect 
of the Pipeline. 
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
42 
Land in respect of which powers of compulsory acquisition or temporary possession are sought 
Plot No. Work 
No. 
Reason for 
acquisition or 
possession 
Category of rights 
sought 
Owner / occupier  
Status of negotiations 
7A 
3 
Temporary 
use 
to 
facilitate construction 
of 
the 
Power 
Generation Plant and 
the Pipeline 
Not applicable  - 
temporary 
possession powers 
sought 
Sarah 
Ann 
Marina 
Llewellyn 
Eric Davies 
Bryan Emyr Llewellyn 
Alaine Francis 
Paul Marsh 
Meidwen May Thomas 
Teifion Henry Thomas 
The rights have been secured by 
agreement between the owners and 
the Applicant by option agreement 
dated 26 June 2014 (the “Option 
Agreement”). The Option Agreement 
provides to permanent and temporary 
rights over the owners’ land in respect 
of the Pipeline and a temporary 
construction lease over Plot 7A. 
7B 
2, 3 
Temporary 
use 
to 
facilitate construction 
of 
the 
Power 
Generation Plant and 
the Pipeline 
Not applicable  - 
temporary 
possession powers 
sought 
Sarah 
Ann 
Marina 
Llewellyn 
Eric Davies 
Bryan Emyr Llewellyn 
Alaine Francis 
The rights have been secured by 
agreement between the owners and 
the Applicant by option agreement 
dated 26 June 2014 (the “Option 
Agreement”). The Option Agreement 
provides to permanent and temporary 
rights over the owners’ land in respect 
of the Pipeline and a temporary 
construction lease over Plot 7B. 
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
43 
Land in respect of which powers of compulsory acquisition or temporary possession are sought 
Plot No. Work 
No. 
Reason for 
acquisition or 
possession 
Category of rights 
sought 
Owner / occupier  
Status of negotiations 
Paul Marsh 
Meidwen May Thomas 
Teifion Henry Thomas 
7C 
3 
Temporary 
use 
to 
facilitate construction 
of 
the 
Power 
Generation Plant and 
the Pipeline 
Not applicable  - 
temporary 
possession powers 
sought 
Sarah 
Ann 
Marina 
Llewellyn 
Bryan Emyr Llewellyn 
Alaine Francis 
Paul Marsh 
Meidwen May Thomas 
Teifion Henry Thomas 
The rights have been secured by 
agreement between the owners and 
the Applicant by option agreement 
dated 26 June 2014 (the “Option 
Agreement”). The Option Agreement 
provides to permanent and temporary 
rights over the owners’ land in respect 
of the Pipeline and a temporary 
construction lease over Plot 7C. 
8 
1A, 
1B, 
1C, 
1D, 
1E, 
1F 2, 
Freehold acquisition 
of land for the Power 
Generation Plant 
Not applicable – 
freehold acquisition 
sought (pink land) 
Sarah 
Ann 
Marina 
Llewellyn 
Eric Davies 
The option for the Applicant to acquire 
a 50 year lease over Plot 8 has been 
secured by agreement between the 
owners and the Applicant by option 
agreement dated 26 June 2014 (the 
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
44 
Land in respect of which powers of compulsory acquisition or temporary possession are sought 
Plot No. Work 
No. 
Reason for 
acquisition or 
possession 
Category of rights 
sought 
Owner / occupier  
Status of negotiations 
3 and 
5A 
Bryan Emyr Llewellyn 
Alaine Francis 
Paul Marsh 
Meidwen May Thomas 
Teifion Henry Thomas 
“Option Agreement”).  
9 
1A, 
1B, 
1C, 
1D, 
1E, 
1F, 2, 
3 and 
5A 
Freehold acquisition 
of land for the Power 
Generation Plant 
Not applicable – 
freehold acquisition 
sought (pink land) 
Sarah 
Ann 
Marina 
Llewellyn 
Eric Davies 
Bryan Emyr Llewellyn 
Alaine Francis 
Paul Marsh 
Meidwen May Thomas 
Teifion Henry Thomas 
The option for the Applicant to acquire 
a 50 year lease over Plot 9 has been 
secured by agreement between the 
owners and the Applicant by option 
agreement dated 26 June 2014 (the 
“Option Agreement”). 
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
45 
Land in respect of which powers of compulsory acquisition or temporary possession are sought 
Plot No. Work 
No. 
Reason for 
acquisition or 
possession 
Category of rights 
sought 
Owner / occupier  
Status of negotiations 
 
10 
1B, 
1E, 4 
and 
5A 
Freehold acquisition 
of 
land 
for 
the 
Ecological Mitigation 
Area 
Not applicable – 
freehold acquisition 
sought (pink land) 
Sarah 
Ann 
Marina 
Llewellyn 
Bryan Emyr Llewellyn 
Alaine Francis 
Paul Marsh 
Meidwen May Thomas 
Teifion Henry Thomas 
 
Discussion for acquisition of Plot 10 
was commenced formally by meeting 
held on 11th May 2018 with the 
owners and their representatives. The 
initial views and opinions of the 
owners were sought and a discussion 
over 
valuation 
will 
continue 
immediately between the appointed 
land agents. 
11 
2, 
3 
and 
5B 
Acquisition of new 
rights (and imposition 
of restrictions) for the 
Access Road and the 
Electrical Connection  
(b), (c) and (f) 
Sarah 
Ann 
Marina 
Llewellyn 
Eric Davies 
Bryan Emyr Llewellyn 
The option for the Applicant to acquire 
a 50 year lease over Plot 11 has been 
secured by agreement between the 
owners and the Applicant by option 
agreement dated 26 June 2014 (the 
“Option Agreement”).  
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
46 
Land in respect of which powers of compulsory acquisition or temporary possession are sought 
Plot No. Work 
No. 
Reason for 
acquisition or 
possession 
Category of rights 
sought 
Owner / occupier  
Status of negotiations 
Alaine Francis 
Paul Marsh 
Meidwen May Thomas 
Teifion Henry Thomas 
 
11A 
2, 
3  
and 
5B 
Acquisition of new 
rights (and imposition 
of restrictions) for the 
Access Road and the 
Electrical Connection 
and for access to the 
Ecological Mitigation 
Area. 
(b) and (e) 
Sarah 
Ann 
Marina 
Llewellyn 
Eric Davies 
Bryan Emyr Llewellyn 
Alaine Francis 
Paul Marsh 
Meidwen May Thomas 
Teifion Henry Thomas 
The option for the Applicant to acquire 
a 50 year lease over Plot 11A has 
been secured by agreement between 
the owners and the Applicant by 
option agreement dated 26 June 2014 
(the “Option Agreement”). 
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
47 
Land in respect of which powers of compulsory acquisition or temporary possession are sought 
Plot No. Work 
No. 
Reason for 
acquisition or 
possession 
Category of rights 
sought 
Owner / occupier  
Status of negotiations 
 
11B 
2, 
3 
and 
5B 
Temporary 
use 
to 
facilitate construction 
of 
the 
Power 
Generation Plant and 
the 
Electrical 
Connection 
Not applicable  - 
temporary 
possession powers 
sought 
Sarah 
Ann 
Marina 
Llewellyn 
Eric Davies 
Bryan Emyr Llewellyn 
Alaine Francis 
Paul Marsh 
Meidwen May Thomas 
Teifion Henry Thomas 
 
The option for the Applicant to acquire 
a 50 year lease over Plot 11B has 
been secured by agreement between 
the owners and the Applicant by 
option agreement dated 26 June 2014 
(the “Option Agreement”). 
12 
1F, 2, 
3 and 
5B 
Acquisition 
of 
freehold land (and 
imposition 
of 
restrictions) 
for 
Laydown 
Area, 
Maintenance 
Compound, 
Access 
Not applicable – 
freehold acquisition 
sought (pink land) 
Sarah 
Ann 
Marina 
Llewellyn 
Eric Davies 
The option for the Applicant to acquire 
a 50 year lease over Plot 12 has been 
secured by agreement between the 
owners and the Applicant by option 
agreement dated 26 June 2014 (the 
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
48 
Land in respect of which powers of compulsory acquisition or temporary possession are sought 
Plot No. Work 
No. 
Reason for 
acquisition or 
possession 
Category of rights 
sought 
Owner / occupier  
Status of negotiations 
Road and Electrical 
Connection 
Bryan Emyr Llewellyn 
Alaine Francis 
Paul Marsh 
Meidwen May Thomas 
Teifion Henry Thomas 
 
“Option Agreement”). 
13 
2 and 
5B 
Acquisition of new 
rights (and imposition 
of restrictions) for the 
Electrical Connection 
and the Access Road 
(b), (c) and (f) 
Michael Edwards 
 
A meeting was held with Mr Edwards 
and his land agent on 27th April 2018 
to 
commence 
discussion 
for 
acquisition of rights over Plot 13. 
Further dialogue has been held 
between 
land 
agents 
to 
review 
principles of valuation to acquire the 
rights by negotiation. A fully termed 
written offer was made to Mr Edwards 
on or around 18th May 2018. 
13A 
2 and Temporary 
use 
to 
facilitate construction 
Not applicable  - 
temporary 
Michael Edwards 
A meeting was held with Mr Edwards 
and his land agent on 27th April 2018 
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
49 
Land in respect of which powers of compulsory acquisition or temporary possession are sought 
Plot No. Work 
No. 
Reason for 
acquisition or 
possession 
Category of rights 
sought 
Owner / occupier  
Status of negotiations 
5B 
of the Access Road 
and 
the 
Electrical 
Connection 
possession powers 
sought 
 
to 
commence 
discussion 
for 
acquisition of rights over Plot 13A. 
Further dialogue has been held 
between 
land 
agents 
to 
review 
principles of valuation to acquire the 
rights by negotiation. A fully termed 
written offer was made to Mr Edwards 
on or around 18th May 2018. 
13B 
2 and 
5B 
Temporary 
use 
to 
facilitate construction 
of the Access Road 
and 
the 
Electrical 
Connection 
Not applicable  - 
temporary 
possession powers 
sought 
Michael Edwards 
 
A meeting was held with Mr Edwards 
and his land agent on 27th April 2018 
to 
commence 
discussion 
for 
acquisition of rights over Plot 13B. 
Further dialogue has been held 
between 
land 
agents 
to 
review 
principles of valuation to acquire the 
rights by negotiation. A fully termed 
written offer was made to Mr Edwards 
on or around 18th May 2018. 
14 
2 and 
5B 
Acquisition of new 
rights (and imposition 
of restrictions) for the 
Access Road and the 
Electrical Connection 
(b), (c) and (f) 
Michael Edwards 
 
A meeting was held with Mr Edwards 
and his land agent on 27th April 2018 
to 
commence 
discussion 
for 
acquisition of rights over Plot 14. 
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
50 
Land in respect of which powers of compulsory acquisition or temporary possession are sought 
Plot No. Work 
No. 
Reason for 
acquisition or 
possession 
Category of rights 
sought 
Owner / occupier  
Status of negotiations 
Further dialogue has been held 
between 
land 
agents 
to 
review 
principles of valuation to acquire the 
rights by negotiation. A fully termed 
written offer was made to Mr Edwards 
on or around 18th May 2018. 
15 
2 and 
5B 
Acquisition of new 
rights (and imposition 
of restrictions) for the 
Access Road 
(b) and (c) 
Michael Edwards 
 
A meeting was held with Mr Edwards 
and his land agent on 27th April 2018 
to 
commence 
discussion 
for 
acquisition of rights over Plot 15. 
Further dialogue has been held 
between 
land 
agents 
to 
review 
principles of valuation to acquire the 
rights by negotiation. A fully termed 
written offer was made to Mr Edwards 
on or around 18th May 2018. 
16 
- 
Acquisition of new 
rights (and imposition 
of restrictions) for the 
Electrical Connection 
(b), (d) and (f) 
National 
Grid 
Electricity 
Transmission plc 
 
Ongoing dialogue with NG ET plc has 
continued 
over 
the 
connection, 
access 
and 
construction 
arrangements for the Project over the 
previous 12 calendar months. A fully 
termed offer for acquisition of the 
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
51 
Land in respect of which powers of compulsory acquisition or temporary possession are sought 
Plot No. Work 
No. 
Reason for 
acquisition or 
possession 
Category of rights 
sought 
Owner / occupier  
Status of negotiations 
rights over Plot 16 was made on or 
around 18th May 2018. 
16A 
- 
Temporary 
use 
to 
facilitate construction 
the 
Electrical 
Connection and the 
Access Road 
Not applicable  - 
temporary 
possession powers 
sought 
National 
Grid 
Electricity 
Transmission plc 
 
Ongoing dialogue with NG ET plc has 
continued 
over 
the 
connection, 
access 
and 
construction 
arrangements for the Project over the 
previous 12 calendar months. A fully 
termed offer for acquisition of the 
rights over Plot 16A was made on or 
around 18th May 2018. 
17 
2 and 
5B 
Acquisition of new 
rights (and imposition 
of restrictions) for the 
Access Road 
(b) and (c) 
Michael Edwards 
A meeting was held with Mr Edwards 
and his land agent on 27th April 2018 
to 
commence 
discussion 
for 
acquisition of rights over Plot 17. 
Further dialogue has been held 
between 
land 
agents 
to 
review 
principles of valuation to acquire the 
rights by negotiation. A fully termed 
written offer was made to Mr Edwards 
on or around 18th May 2018. 
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
52 
Land in respect of which powers of compulsory acquisition or temporary possession are sought 
Plot No. Work 
No. 
Reason for 
acquisition or 
possession 
Category of rights 
sought 
Owner / occupier  
Status of negotiations 
17A 
2 and 
5B 
Temporary 
use 
to 
facilitate construction 
of the Access Road 
and 
the 
Electrical 
Connection 
Not applicable  - 
temporary 
possession powers 
sought 
Michael Edwards 
A meeting was held with Mr Edwards 
and his land agent on 27th April 2018 
to 
commence 
discussion 
for 
acquisition of rights over Plot 17A. 
Further dialogue has been held 
between 
land 
agents 
to 
review 
principles of valuation to acquire the 
rights by negotiation. A fully termed 
written offer was made to Mr Edwards 
on or around 18th May 2018. 
17B 
2 and 
5B 
Temporary 
use 
to 
facilitate construction 
of the Access Road 
and 
the 
Electrical 
Connection 
Not applicable  - 
temporary 
possession powers 
sought 
Michael Edwards 
A meeting was held with Mr Edwards 
and his land agent on 27th April 2018 
to 
commence 
discussion 
for 
acquisition of rights over Plot 17B. 
Further dialogue has been held 
between 
land 
agents 
to 
review 
principles of valuation to acquire the 
rights by negotiation. A fully termed 
written offer was made to Mr Edwards 
on or around 18th May 2018. 
18 
2 and Acquisition of new 
rights (and imposition 
(b), (c) and (d) 
Wynne Watkins 
A meeting was held with Mr Watkins 
and his land agent on 27th April 2018 
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
53 
Land in respect of which powers of compulsory acquisition or temporary possession are sought 
Plot No. Work 
No. 
Reason for 
acquisition or 
possession 
Category of rights 
sought 
Owner / occupier  
Status of negotiations 
5B 
of restrictions) for the 
Access Road 
to 
commence 
discussion 
for 
acquisition of rights over Plot 18. A 
fully termed written offer was made to 
Mr Watkins on or around 18th May 
2018. 
18A 
2 and 
5B 
Temporary 
use 
to 
facilitate construction 
of the Access Road 
and 
the 
Electrical 
Connection 
Not applicable  - 
temporary 
possession powers 
sought 
Wynne Watkins 
A meeting was held with Mr Watkins 
and his land agent on 27th April 2018 
to 
commence 
discussion 
for 
acquisition of rights over Plot 18A. A 
fully termed written offer was made to 
Mr Watkins on or around 18th May 
2018. 
18B 
2 and 
5B 
Temporary 
use 
to 
facilitate construction 
of the Access Road 
Not applicable  - 
temporary 
possession powers 
sought 
Wynne Watkins 
A meeting was held with Mr Watkins 
and his land agent on 27th April 2018 
to 
commence 
discussion 
for 
acquisition of rights over Plot 18B. A 
fully termed written offer was made to 
Mr Watkins on or around 18th May 
2018. 
19 
2 and Acquisition of new 
rights (and imposition 
(b), (c), (d) and (j) 
National 
Grid 
Electricity Ongoing dialogue with NG ET plc has 
continued 
over 
the 
connection, 
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
54 
Land in respect of which powers of compulsory acquisition or temporary possession are sought 
Plot No. Work 
No. 
Reason for 
acquisition or 
possession 
Category of rights 
sought 
Owner / occupier  
Status of negotiations 
5B 
of restrictions) for the 
Access Road 
Transmission plc 
 
access 
and 
construction 
arrangements for the Project over the 
previous 12 calendar months. A fully 
termed offer for acquisition of the 
rights over Plot 19 was made on or 
around 18th May 2018. 
19A 
2 and 
5B 
Temporary 
use 
to 
facilitate construction 
of the Access Road 
Not applicable  - 
temporary 
possession powers 
sought 
National 
Grid 
Electricity 
Transmission plc 
 
Ongoing dialogue with NG ET plc has 
continued 
over 
the 
connection, 
access 
and 
construction 
arrangements for the Project over the 
previous 12 calendar months. A fully 
termed offer for acquisition of the 
rights over Plot 19A was made on or 
around 18th May 2018. 
20 
2 
Acquisition of new 
rights (and imposition 
of restrictions) for the 
Access Road 
(b), (c) and (j) 
Claire Louise Smith 
Ferelith Joan Smith 
Malcolm Richard Christie 
Smith 
Robert Malcolm Christie 
Confirmation of the appointed agent 
for the owners was received during 
the week of 7th May 2018 and a 
telephone meeting held with the land 
agent on 10th May 2018 to review and 
discuss the rights to be acquired over 
Plot 20. A fully termed offer for 
acquisition of the rights over Plot 20 
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
55 
Land in respect of which powers of compulsory acquisition or temporary possession are sought 
Plot No. Work 
No. 
Reason for 
acquisition or 
possession 
Category of rights 
sought 
Owner / occupier  
Status of negotiations 
Smith 
Kirsty Ann Dando-Thomas 
Jeffrey Charles Jones 
Garry William Thomas 
was issued to the land agent on or 
around 18th May 2018. 
21 
2 
Acquisition of new 
rights (and imposition 
of restrictions) for the 
Access Road 
(b), (c) and (j) 
Wynne Watkins 
Good Energy Brynwhilach 
A meeting was held with Mr Watkins 
and his land agent on 27th April 2018 
to 
commence 
discussion 
for 
acquisition of rights over Plot 21. A 
fully termed written offer was made to 
Mr Watkins on or around 18th May 
2018. 
22 
2 
Acquisition of new 
rights (and imposition 
of restrictions)  for 
the Access Road 
(b), (c) and (j) 
Rediplay Limited 
Teamforce UK Limited 
A meeting was held with Mr Watkins 
and his land agent on 27th April 2018 
to 
commence 
discussion 
for 
acquisition of rights over Plot 22. A 
fully termed written offer was made to 
Mr Watkins on or around 18th May 
2018. 
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
56 
Land in respect of which powers of compulsory acquisition or temporary possession are sought 
Plot No. Work 
No. 
Reason for 
acquisition or 
possession 
Category of rights 
sought 
Owner / occupier  
Status of negotiations 
23 
2 
Acquisition of new 
rights (and imposition 
of restrictions) for the 
Access Road 
(b), (c) and (j) 
National Grid Gas plc 
A fully termed written offer was made 
to NG Gas plc on or around 18th May 
2018. 
24 
2 
Acquisition of new 
rights (and imposition 
of restrictions) for the 
Access Road 
(b), (c) and (j) 
Wynne Watkins 
A meeting was held with Mr Watkins 
and his land agent on 27th April 2018 
to 
commence 
discussion 
for 
acquisition of rights over Plot 24. A 
fully termed written offer was made to 
Mr Watkins on or around 18th May 
2018. 
Plots 9, 
10, 11, 
11A, 
11B, 12, 
13, 13A, 
13B, 14, 
15, 16, 
16A, 19, 
19A, 20, 
in 
respect 
of 
1A, 
1B, 
1C, 
1D, 
1E, 
1F, 2, 
3, 4, 
5A 
and 
5B 
Freehold acquisition 
of land for the Power 
Generation Plant, 
Ecological mitigation 
area, Laydown Area, 
Maintenance 
Compound, Access 
Road and Electrical 
Connection. 
 
Temporary 
use 
to 
facilitate construction 
(b), (c), (d), (e), (f) 
and (j) 
Lord 
Richard 
Anthony 
Hussey 
Assessment 
of 
potential 
for 
interference with minerals rights is in 
progress, and negotiations with the 
owner of the minerals rights are 
expected to begin shortly. 
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
57 
Land in respect of which powers of compulsory acquisition or temporary possession are sought 
Plot No. Work 
No. 
Reason for 
acquisition or 
possession 
Category of rights 
sought 
Owner / occupier  
Status of negotiations 
minerals 
rights 
only 
of 
the 
Power 
Generation Plant, the 
Electrical Connection 
and 
the 
Access 
Road. 
 
Acquisition of new 
rights (and imposition 
of restrictions) for the 
Access Road and the 
Electrical 
Connection. 
 
 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
58 
 
6.6 
Alternatives to Compulsory Acquisition     
6.6.1 
As set out in the ES and the Consultation Report (Document 
References 6.1.0 and 5.1.0 respectively) APL has studied 
various alternatives at relevant stages prior to the making of the 
Application. These are set out in summary below.  
6.6.2 
Chapter 5 of the ES (Document Reference 6.1.0) explains the 
studies made in respect of and consideration given to: 
(a) 
site selection;  
(b) 
alternative technologies for electricity generation; 
(c) 
alternative options for the Access Road;   
(d) 
alternative options for the Electrical Connection; and 
(e) 
alternative options for the Gas Connection. 
6.6.3 
Chapter 10 of the Consultation Report explains further how 
community 
and 
statutory 
consultees 
have 
influenced 
considerations as to alternative layouts and options for the 
Power Generation Plant, Electrical Connection and Gas 
Connection.  
Site Selection 
 
6.6.4 
As reported in section 5.2 in Chapter 5 of the ES, APL’s site 
selection process began in 2010. As recognised by NPS EN-2 
(Section 2.2.1), it is for energy companies to decide what 
applications to bring forward and the Government does not 
seek to direct applicants to particular sites. In addition, the 
specific criteria considered by applicants, and the weight they 
give to them, can and will vary from project to project.  
6.6.5 
A range of sites around the UK were studied to ascertain their 
suitability to support power generation plants of the Project's 
nature. The key factors which were considered necessary in a 
site were broadly four-fold: technical (e.g. the size of the site 
and the proximity to appropriate gas and electrical connection 
points), economic (e.g. the proximity of a site to appropriate gas 
and electrical connection points, in order to reduce the cost to 
the UK consumer and the environmental impact of the 
associated connections), environmental (proximity of sensitive 
receptors, such as residential properties or sites of ecological 
importance) and whether the proposals would be in line with 
local planning policy. Based on these considerations, the Order 
Land (and the Generating Equipment Site within the Order 
Limits) was considered suitable.  
Alternative Technologies 
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
59 
 
6.6.6 
The following three technology options were originally 
considered for the Power Generation Plant operating as a 
peaking plant: OCGT plant; Combined Cycle Gas Turbine 
("CCGT") plant; and Reciprocating Gas Engines ("RGE") plant. 
The potential for using Combined Heat and Power ("CHP") 
opportunities using these technologies was also considered; 
however, it is considered not technically or economically 
feasible with the selection of an OCGT peaking power station 
(see Appendix 5.1 of the ES, Document Reference 6.2.0). 
6.6.7 
A larger number of RGE units would be required to generate up 
to 299 MW. Spatially, this is not possible at the Project Site and 
this option was discounted from further detailed consideration. 
As between CCGT and SCGT plant, it was found that SCGT 
would be the most suitable technology choice for generating up 
to 299 MW as a peaking plant at the Project Site based on 
environmental, technical and feasibility considerations, relating 
to: visual impact, water resources, noise and available space, 
financial considerations, and start-up times. In particular, it was 
found that an OCGT plant would likely perform better 
economically and with short start-up times (paying due regard 
to the Capacity Mechanism, the likely market regime), and 
lower impacts in respect of water usage, visual impact, noise 
and land take. 
Alternative Layouts & Route Options 
 
6.6.8 
A range of site layouts for the Generating Equipment were 
examined before culminating in the final design of the Project 
taking into account the following constraints:  
• Appropriate buffer to protect a 1.68 metre cast iron water 
main which bisects the Generating Equipment Site; 
 
• Avoidance of landfill to north; 
 
• Avoidance of higher topography to the north west which 
would be more visible in key views; 
 
• Avoidance of woodland to the East; 
 
• Avoidance of solar farms to the north, south, east and west; 
 
• Avoidance of field boundaries as far as possible (being 
wildlife/ heritage features). 
 
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
60 
6.6.9 
Dimensions of Gas Turbine Generators, cooling equipment, 
demineralised 
water 
tank, 
fire 
water 
tank, 
administration/workshop/control building(s) and Gas Receiving 
Station were also considered and refined so far as possible 
having regard to site constraints as set out in Chapter 5 of the 
ES.  
6.6.10 At the commencement of non-statutory consultation for the 
Project, several options were still under consideration: 
• Two possible access roads to the Power Generation Plant 
Site; 
 
• Two possible options for connecting the Generating 
Equipment to a suitable source of fuel gas; 
 
• Four possible options for the Gas Connection route corridor 
(within an identified Gas Connection Opportunity Area); 
 
• Two possible Electrical Connection options to export power 
from the Generating Equipment to the NETS: underground 
Cable; or, overhead line; 
 
• Possible options for the Electrical Connection route corridor 
(within an identified Electrical Connection Opportunity Area 
to the south-west of the Generating Equipment Site); 
 
6.6.11 Two options were considered for the access to the Generating 
Equipment Site:  
(a) 
'Access Option 1' (so-called as it was identified first) 
would have involved taking access from the north via 
the Rhyd-y-pandy Road and the existing access road 
west of Brynheulog past Abergelli Farm which would 
need to be extended to the Generating Equipment Site.  
(b) 
'Access Option 2' is from the west via the B4489, along 
the access road to Swansea North Substation and 
Felindre Gas Compressor Station, which will be 
widened to accommodate the abnormal loads required 
during construction, and then along a new section of 
purpose built access road to be constructed across 
undeveloped land to the Generating Equipment Site.   
6.6.12 'Access Option 2' was the option taken forward and is referred 
to in this Statement as the Access Road. The main reasons for 
this choice were that the majority of the public consulted during 
2014 supported this option in preference to 'Access Option 1', 
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
61 
as it would result in a lower adverse impact on traffic by using a 
shorter, more direct route and would avoid the roads leading to 
Morriston Hospital. This option also minimises the amount of 
construction required, as part of the access is existing. 
6.6.13 As to alternative options for the Gas Connection, four principal 
potential connection route options (these are shown on Figure 
5.2 of the ES and described in section 5.4 of Chapter 5 of the 
ES (Document Reference 6.1.0)) were explored prior to 
identification of a single preferred route for the Gas Connection. 
In selecting the final route for the Gas Connection, due regard 
has been paid to relevant factors including environmental, 
planning, safety, engineering and constructability in selecting 
the preferred route. Although not the shortest route, the 
selected route has lower risks and avoids ecologically 
significant habitats, such as rhos pasture and deciduous 
woodland which were identified during the Phase One Habitat 
Survey. 
6.6.14 As to alternative options for the Electrical Connection, a grid 
connection assessment was undertaken for the Project in 
March 2014 in order to define and evaluate the options 
available for connecting the Generating Equipment to the NETS 
for the export of electricity. Both underground cables and 
overhead 
lines 
were 
initially 
considered. 
 
However, 
underground cables were selected as the preferred option due 
to the limited visual impact. 
6.6.15 The Project will connect into a Gas Insulated Switchgear (GIS) 
generator bay within Swansea North Substation. Only a limited 
number of route corridor options for the Electrical Connection 
were considered, as the most appropriate option was available 
(i.e. the shortest, most direct route, requiring the least amount 
of land take and avoiding any statutory designated sites or 
valued habitats). This negated the need to assess any less 
favourable options. 
6.6.16 APL therefore considers that all reasonable alternatives have 
been considered prior to the making of the Application and such 
consideration has included reasonable factors at relevant 
stages, such as consultee comments, technical feasibility, the 
anticipated 
market 
regime, 
and 
the 
minimisation 
of 
environmental and visual impacts and land take.  
6.7 
Availability of Funds for Compensation   
6.7.1 
The Funding Statement (Document Reference 4.2) confirms 
that APL has the ability to procure the financial resources 
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
62 
required for the Project, including the cost of acquiring any land 
and rights and the payment of compensation, as applicable.  
6.7.2 
In addition, the Order contains an obligation on APL to put in 
place a guarantee or other form of financial security (to be 
approved by the Secretary of State) prior to exercising any of 
the compulsory acquisition powers. 
6.7.3 
APL therefore considers that the Secretary of State can be 
satisfied that the requisite funds for payment of compensation 
will be available at the appropriate time. 
7. 
JUSTIFICATION FOR THE USE OF POWERS OF COMPULSORY 
ACQUISITION   
7.1 
Compelling Case 
7.1.1 
A 
Planning 
Statement 
(Document 
Reference 
10.1.0) 
accompanies the Application. In addition to the information set 
out above, the Planning Statement explains how the Project:- 
(a) 
meets an urgent need for new energy infrastructure;  
(b) 
is compliant with NPS EN-1 and NPS EN-2, and in 
accordance with the other decision-making factors 
specified in Section 104 of the PA 2008.   
(c) 
is a form of economic development that is suitable in its 
local context; 
(d) 
minimises or mitigates adverse landscape and amenity 
impacts to an acceptable degree; 
(e) 
minimises or mitigates adverse environmental impacts 
to an acceptable degree;  
7.1.2 
The Planning Statement provides an extensive review of these 
matters, summarised in the subsequent paragraphs of this 
section.   
7.2 
The Urgent Need for New Gas Fired Generating Station 
Infrastructure   
7.2.1 
The urgent need for flexible gas fired power generating 
stations is established in NPS EN-1, and is supported in a 
range of other national policy: 
7.2.2 
 the National Infrastructure Plan 2014 (HM Treasury, 
December 2014),  
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
63 
7.2.3 
the Gas Generation Strategy (DECC, 2012) and 
7.2.4 
The “Final Report of the Industrial Strategy Commission” 
(Industrial Strategy Commission, November 2017). 
7.2.5 
Both the National Policy Statements and other national policy 
acknowledge the substantial national need for gas generation 
infrastructure to respond to changes in supply and demand and 
to replace the capacity that will be lost through the closure of 
existing large coal plants, to which the Project will directly 
contribute.   
7.2.6 
The Environment Act (Wales) 2016 sets out a long term target 
of reducing carbon emissions in Wales by at least 80% by 2050.  
The Project will contribute to achieving this goal by supporting 
security of supply and enabling reliance on renewable 
technology.   
7.2.7 
Gas-fired generating stations are very well suited to meeting 
‘peak’ load demands as they can be specified with very reliable, 
flexible technology. Peaking plants operate for up to 2,250 
hours per year and help to ‘balance out’ the grid at times of 
peak electricity demand and also help to support the grid at 
times when intermittent renewable sources cannot generate 
electricity. The chosen technology for a peaking plant should 
maximise reliability for an intermittent pattern of usage, and 
short start-up time. 
7.2.8 
With the substantial recent and forecast increases in 
intermittent sources on the grid, ‘peaking’ plants have a 
valuable role in ‘evening out’ the power supply to the grid and 
thus complementing renewable sources, as supported by the 
National Policy Statements.  
7.2.9 
Accordingly it can be seen that the Project can contribute to the 
immediate and medium term needs for flexible, reliable, peak 
load power generation and facilitate the transition to a low 
carbon economy. It therefore makes a material contribution to 
attaining UK and Welsh energy policy objectives. 
7.3 
Economic development considerations 
7.3.1 
NPS EN-2 notes that “Fossil fuel generating stations have large 
land footprints and will therefore only be possible where the 
applicant is able to acquire a suitably-sized site” (NPS EN-2, 
paragraph 2.2.2). It is also notes that “Applicants should locate 
new fossil fuel generating stations in the vicinity of existing 
transport routes wherever possible.” These factors, along with 
consideration of the nature and intensity of neighbouring land 
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
64 
uses and the proximity of grid connections to minimise 
construction effects on the surrounding area, have been taken 
into account in selecting the site (see the alternatives section at 
paragraph 6.6 above).  
7.3.2 
Planning Policy Wales (Edition 9, November 2016, Welsh 
Government) seeks to plan for economic development, defined 
as development of land and buildings for activities that generate 
wealth, jobs and incomes, and notes that the construction and 
energy sectors are important to that economy. 
7.3.3 
Chapter 14 of the ES (Document Reference 6.1.0) deals with 
the socio economic impacts of the Project and its findings are 
summarised below:  
(a) 
During construction and decommissioning the Project 
will have slight beneficial effects on the socio-economic 
status of the area through both employment creation 
and capital expenditure and worker spending in the 
local economy.  
(b) 
During operation the Project is anticipated to bring slight 
beneficial effects to the area in the vicinity of the Project 
Site through the generation of jobs and investment of 
staff from e.g. spending their wages locally. 
(c) 
No likely significant impacts are predicted on tourism 
and community infrastructure as a result of the 
construction and operation of the Project from visual, 
noise, traffic and accessibility and air quality impacts. 
(d) 
There are no likely significant effects when the Project 
is considered cumulatively with other projects.  
7.3.4 
No likely significant effects are anticipated on socio-economics 
as a result of the construction, operation or decommissioning of 
the Project. However, there are likely to be slight beneficial 
effects from investment and job creation at all stages of the 
Project.  
7.3.5 
The Design Note on CHP contained in the Environmental 
Statement Appendix 5.1 (Document Reference 6.2.0) explains 
the considerations that have been given to CHP at relevant 
stages of the evolution of the Project and concludes that there 
is no regional market for heat in this location, no potential future 
heat requirements in the area that would match the 
unpredictable operational pattern of a peaking power station 
can be identified, and the intermittent operation is inherently 
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
65 
unsuitable for the likely continuous or regular demands of heat 
users. 
7.3.6 
The Environmental Statement has also assessed all relevant 
likely significant environmental effects and has proposed 
appropriate mitigation wherever feasible (Document Reference 
6.1.0). 
7.3.7 
APL considers that the Project has been sited, laid out and 
designed with appropriate regard to NPS policies and relevant 
economic development considerations. 
7.3.8 
As such, it is considered that there are no relevant matters that 
give rise to adverse impacts sufficient to outweigh the identified 
benefits of the Project. 
7.3.9 
It is considered that there are no international obligations that 
would be breached if the Order were made in the terms 
proposed. 
7.3.10 In conclusion and in line with the factors set out in Section 
122(3) and section 104 of the PA 2008 there is a compelling 
case in the public interest for the Order to be made in the terms 
proposed and in the absence of sufficient indications to the 
contrary. 
8. 
SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS     
8.1 
Special Category Land – Crown Land 
8.1.1 
No Crown interests are included in or affected by the Order 
Land.  
8.2 
Special Category Land – Open Space 
8.2.1 
No open space, common land fuel or field garden allotment is 
included in or affected by the Order Land. 
8.3 
National Trust land 
8.3.1 
No National Trust land is included in or affected by the Order 
Land. 
8.4 
Statutory Undertakers' Land and Apparatus 
8.4.1 
The interests held by each statutory undertaker identified by 
APL as having a right to keep or access apparatus within the 
Order Land are identified in Part 2 and Part 3 of the Book of 
Reference (Document Reference 4.3). 
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
66 
8.4.2 
Section 127(2) of the PA 2008 states that an order granting 
development consent may only include provision authorising 
the compulsory acquisition of statutory undertakers' land to the 
extent that: 
(a) 
the land can be purchased and not replaced without 
serious detriment to the carrying on of the undertaking; 
or 
(b) 
the land can be replaced by other land belonging to or 
available for acquisition by the undertakers without 
serious detriment to the carrying on of the undertaking. 
8.4.3 
Section 127(5) of the PA 2008 states that an order granting 
development consent may only include provision authorising 
the compulsory acquisition of a right over statutory undertaker's 
land by the creation of a new right over land to the extent that:- 
(a) 
the right can be purchased without serious detriment to 
the carrying on of the undertaking; or 
(b) 
any detriment to the carrying on of the undertaking, in 
consequence of the acquisition of the right, can be 
made good by the undertakers by the use of the other 
land belonging to or available for acquisition by them. 
8.4.4 
Section 138 of the PA 2008 states that an order granting 
development consent may only include provision for the 
extinguishment of rights of way, or rights to lay down, erect, 
continue or maintain apparatus on, under or over the land 
belonging to statutory undertakers for the purposes of their 
undertakings only if the Secretary of State is satisfied that the 
extinguishment is necessary for the purpose of carrying out 
the development to which the order relates.  The protective 
provisions proposed by APL in the draft Order for identified 
statutory undertakers whose apparatus may be affected by 
the draft Order provides that APL may not extinguish any 
rights belonging to the affected undertakers without their 
prior agreement.  Further detail is set out in Table 3 below. 
8.4.5 
Adequate protection for the statutory undertakers will be 
included within protective provisions in the Order and/or asset 
protection agreements between the parties. APL therefore 
considers that the statutory undertakers will not suffer serious 
detriment to the carrying on of the undertaking as a result of the 
compulsory acquisition of land or rights over land or powers of 
temporary possession.  
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
67 
8.4.6 
A summary of the current status of negotiations with each 
statutory undertaker is set out in Table 3 below. 
Table 3 
Summary of negotiations with statutory undertakers 
Plot 
Nos. 
Work 
Nos. 
Engagement of Section 
127 
Statutory undertaker and 
status of negotiation 
6, 
6A, 
6B, 10, 
13, 14, 
15, 16, 
16A, 18, 
18A, 
18B, 19, 
19A, 20, 
21, 24 
2, 4, 5 
APL considers that the land 
and rights can be acquired 
without serious detriment to 
the carrying on of National 
Grid's undertaking. 
The Protective Provisions in 
the draft Order ensure that 
National Grid's apparatus 
will be protected and access 
maintained 
during 
construction.  
The Protective Provisions 
also 
ensure 
that 
(if 
necessary) no rights will be 
extinguished 
without 
National Grid's agreement 
and no apparatus removed 
until alternative apparatus 
has been constructed. 
National 
Grid 
Electricity 
Transmission plc: APL and 
National 
Grid 
Electricity 
Transmission plc are currently 
negotiating 
the 
protective 
provisions to be included in the 
Order and a side agreement for 
the protection of National Grid's 
apparatus 
and 
access 
to 
apparatus. APL has included 
draft protective provisions for the 
benefit of National Grid in Part 3 
of Schedule 11 to the Order. 
2, 6, 6A, 
6B, 16, 
16A, 19, 
19A, 23,  
2 and 5 
APL considers that the land 
and rights can be acquired 
without serious detriment to 
the carrying on of National 
Grid's undertaking. 
The Protective Provisions in 
the draft Order ensure that 
National Grid's apparatus 
will be protected and access 
maintained 
during 
construction.  
The Protective Provisions 
also 
ensure 
that 
(if 
necessary) no rights will be 
extinguished 
without 
National Grid Gas plc: APL and 
National 
Grid 
Gas 
plc 
are 
currently 
negotiating 
the 
protective 
provisions 
to 
be 
included in the Order and a side 
agreement for the protection of 
National Grid's apparatus and 
access to apparatus. APL has 
included 
draft 
protective 
provisions for the benefit of 
National Grid in Part 3 of 
Schedule 11 to the Order. 
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
68 
Summary of negotiations with statutory undertakers 
Plot 
Nos. 
Work 
Nos. 
Engagement of Section 
127 
Statutory undertaker and 
status of negotiation 
National Grid's agreement 
and no apparatus removed 
until alternative apparatus 
has been constructed. 
3, 
3A, 
3B, 7C, 
10, 12, 
13A, 16, 
16A, 18, 
18A, 
18B, 19, 
19A, 20, 
21, 22, 
24 
1F, 2, 3, 
4 and 5 
APL considers that the land 
and rights can be acquired 
without serious detriment to 
the carrying on of Western 
Power Distribution (South 
Wales) plc’s undertaking. 
The Protective Provisions in 
the draft Order ensure that 
Western Power Distribution 
(South 
Wales) 
plc’s 
apparatus will be protected 
and 
access 
maintained 
during construction.  
The Protective Provisions 
also 
ensure 
that 
(if 
necessary) no rights will be 
extinguished 
without 
Western Power Distribution 
(South 
Wales) 
plc’s 
agreement 
and 
no 
apparatus 
removed 
until 
alternative apparatus has 
been constructed. 
Western 
Power 
Distribution 
(South Wales) plc: APL and 
Western Power (South Wales) 
Distribution 
plc 
are 
currently 
negotiating 
the 
protective 
provisions to be included in the 
Order and a side agreement for 
the protection of Western Power 
Distribution (South Wales) plc’s 
apparatus 
and 
access 
to 
apparatus. APL has included 
draft protective provisions for the 
benefit 
of 
Western 
Power 
Distribution (South Wales) plc in 
Part 4 of Schedule 11 to the 
Order. 
7B, 7C, 
10, 11, 
11A, 
11B, 12, 
19, 20, 
22,  
1F, 2, 3, 
4 and 5 
APL considers that the land 
and rights can be acquired 
without serious detriment to 
the carrying on of Dwr 
Cymru 
Cyfyngedig’s 
undertaking. 
The Protective Provisions in 
the draft Order ensure that 
Dwr 
Cymru 
Cyfyngedig’s 
apparatus will be protected 
and 
access 
maintained 
Dwr Cymru Cyfyngedig: APL 
and Dwr Cymru Cyfyngedig are 
currently 
negotiating 
the 
protective 
provisions 
to 
be 
included in the Order and a side 
agreement for the protection of 
Dwr 
Cymru 
Cyfyngedig’s 
apparatus 
and 
access 
to 
apparatus. APL has included 
draft protective provisions for the 
benefit of Dwr Cymru Cyfyngedig 
in Part 5 of Schedule 11 to the 
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
69 
Summary of negotiations with statutory undertakers 
Plot 
Nos. 
Work 
Nos. 
Engagement of Section 
127 
Statutory undertaker and 
status of negotiation 
during construction.  
The Protective Provisions 
also 
ensure 
that 
(if 
necessary) no rights will be 
extinguished without Dwr 
Cymru 
Cyfyngedig’s 
agreement 
and 
no 
apparatus 
removed 
until 
alternative apparatus has 
been constructed. 
Order. 
2, 3, 3A, 
3B, 
4, 
4A, 
5, 
5A, 5B, 
6, 
6A, 
6B, 7C 
 
APL considers that the land 
and rights can be acquired 
without serious detriment to 
the carrying on of Abergelli 
Solar Limited’s undertaking. 
The Protective Provisions in 
the draft Order ensure that 
Abergelli 
Solar 
Limited’s 
apparatus will be protected 
and 
access 
maintained 
during construction.  
The Protective Provisions 
also 
ensure 
that 
(if 
necessary) no rights will be 
extinguished 
without 
Abergelli 
Solar 
Limited’s 
agreement 
and 
no 
apparatus 
removed 
until 
alternative apparatus has 
been constructed. 
Abergelli Solar Limited: APL 
and Abergelli Solar Limited are 
currently 
negotiating 
the 
protective 
provisions 
to 
be 
included in the Order and a side 
agreement for the protection of 
Abergelli 
Solar 
Limited’s 
apparatus 
and 
access 
to 
apparatus. APL has included 
draft protective provisions for the 
benefit of Abergelli Solar Limited 
in Part 6 of Schedule 11 to the 
Order. 
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
70 
Summary of negotiations with statutory undertakers 
Plot 
Nos. 
Work 
Nos. 
Engagement of Section 
127 
Statutory undertaker and 
status of negotiation 
10, 13, 
14, 15,  
16, 16A, 
19 
2, and 4 
APL considers that the land 
and rights can be acquired 
without serious detriment to 
the carrying on of Wales 
and West Utilities Limited's 
undertaking. 
The Protective Provisions in 
the draft Order ensure that 
Wales and West Utilities 
Limited’s apparatus will be 
protected 
and 
access 
maintained 
during 
construction.  
The Protective Provisions 
also 
ensure 
that 
(if 
necessary) no rights will be 
extinguished without Wales 
and West Utilities Limited’s 
agreement 
and 
no 
apparatus 
removed 
until 
alternative apparatus has 
been constructed. 
Wales 
and 
West 
Utilities 
Limited:  APL and Wales and 
West 
Utilities 
Limited 
are 
currently 
negotiating 
the 
protective 
provisions 
to 
be 
included in the Order and a side 
agreement for the protection of 
Wales 
and 
West 
Utilities 
Limited's apparatus and access 
to apparatus.  APL has included 
draft protective provisions for the 
benefit 
of Wales 
and West 
Utilities Limited in Part 7 of 
Schedule 11 to the Order. 
7B, 7C, 
10, 12  
1F, 2, 3, 
4 
APL does not consider that 
section 127 is engaged in 
relation 
to 
the 
decommissioned oil pipeline 
owned by BP International 
Limited, as BP International 
Limited is not a statutory 
undertaker 
within 
the 
meaning of Section 8 of the 
Acquisition 
of 
Land 
Act 
1981, 
 
APL has not included draft 
protective 
provisions 
for 
the 
benefit 
of 
BP 
International 
Limited in Schedule 11 to the 
Order as APL does not consider 
that section 127 is engaged.   
 
8.5 
Other consents      
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
71 
8.5.1 
Other consents are required in order for the Project to be 
constructed and subsequently operate. The Details of Other 
Consents and Licences Document (Document Reference 5.4) 
sets out the additional consents required and when they will be 
applied for. Some of these additional consents are identified 
below.  
8.5.2 
APL is not aware of any reason in principle why any consents, 
licences or permits listed are not likely to be granted.  
Planning Permission 
8.5.3 
As explained in paragraphs 2.9 - 2.12 above, the Project 
includes an Electrical Connection and a Gas Connection which 
are considered by APL to be Associated Development and in 
respect of which APL is not therefore seeking development 
consent as part of the Application. This approach is consistent 
with paragraph 3.23 of the decision letter for The Hirwaun 
Generating Station Order 2015 where the Secretary of State 
determined that the gas connection and the electrical 
connection were not part of the generating station and it was 
not therefore appropriate to include the gas connection and 
electrical connection in the DCO. 
8.5.4 
APL will submit a separate planning application for the Gas 
Connection to the local planning authority, City and County of 
Swansea Council (CCS), under the Town and Country Planning 
Act 1990 (TCPA 1990). 
8.5.5 
The Electrical Connection will be consented either through 
Permitted Development rights or a planning application to CCS 
under the TCPA 1990.  
8.5.6 
It is anticipated that planning permission for the Gas Connection 
will have been granted prior to the end of the DCO Examination.  
It is also anticipated that either planning permission or 
confirmation from CCS that permitted development rights are 
considered to be available (following the grant of a generation 
licence under the Electricity Act 1989 and EIA screening) for the 
Electrical Connection will have been issued prior to the end of 
the DCO Examination.  APL is in pre-application discussions 
with CCS in relation to the Gas Connection and Electrical 
Connection, and the relevant planning application(s) are 
expected to be submitted prior to the commencement of the 
DCO Examination 
Connection Agreement  
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
72 
8.5.7 
APL received an offer of a Bilateral Connection Agreement and 
Construction Agreement from NGET on 23 February 2018 (the 
Connection Agreement) to connect the Generating Equipment 
to the NETS. 
8.5.8 
The Connection Agreement offer provides the Generating 
Equipment with an export capacity of 299 MW and a connection 
date to the NETS of 30 September 2022.  
8.5.9 
APL can confirm that it will enter into the Connection Agreement 
by 23 May 2018 thereby securing an agreement to export the 
output of the Generating Equipment to the NETS. 
8.5.10 This agreement is discussed in more detail in the Grid 
Connection Statement (Document Reference: 9.1). 
Generation Licence  
8.5.11 As required under Section 6 of the Electricity Act 1989, APL has 
submitted an application for a Generation Licence to the Gas 
and Electricity Markets Authority. 
Environmental Permit  
8.5.12 As required by the Environmental Permitting (England and 
Wales) Regulations 2016 as amended, APL will submit an 
application for an Environmental Permit, required to operate the 
Project, to Natural Resources Wales.  APL has been in 
discussions with Natural Resources Wales regarding the timing 
of the application for an Environmental Permit and APL is 
seeking to produce a Statement of Common Ground with 
Natural Resources Wales before examination of the Order.  
Permit to emit CO2 
8.5.13 The Greenhouse Gas Emissions Trading Scheme Regulations 
2005 require any operator that carries out a 'regulated activity' 
to have a permit. Regulated activities include combustion that 
uses large amounts of energy or generate large amounts of 
CO2, perfluorocarbons or nitrous oxide (N2O) (under Annex 1 
of Directive 2009/29/EC) and so will capture the Project unless 
an exemption applies. Applications will be made to ensure 
compliance with the 2012 Regulations (which require any 
operator that carries out a 'regulated activity', including 
combustion of fuels, to have a permit). The application will be 
progressed 
in 
parallel 
with 
the 
Environmental 
Permit 
application. 
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
73 
9. 
HUMAN RIGHTS  
9.1 
The Human Rights Act 1998 incorporated into UK law the European 
Convention on Human Rights (the "Convention").  The Convention 
includes provisions in the form of Articles, the aim of which is to protect 
the rights of the individual.   
9.2 
The following Articles of the Convention are relevant to the Secretary of 
State's decision as to whether the Order should be made so as to 
include powers of compulsory acquisition: 
9.2.1 
Article 1 of the First Protocol to the Convention: This 
protects the right of everyone to a peaceful enjoyment of 
possessions and provides that no one can be deprived of their 
possessions except in the public interest and subject to the 
relevant national and international laws and principles.   
 
9.2.2 
Article 6: This entitles those affected by the powers sought in 
the Order to a fair and public hearing of any relevant objections 
they may have to the granting of those powers.  This includes 
property rights and can include opportunities to be heard in the 
decision making process.  
9.2.3 
Article 8: This protects private and family life, home and 
correspondence.  No public authority can interfere with these 
rights except such as in accordance with the law and is 
necessary in the interest of national security, public safety or 
the economic well-being of the country.   
9.3 
The Secretary of State, as the decision maker, is under a duty to 
consider whether the exercise of powers interacts with the rights 
protected by the Convention.   
9.4 
The Order has the potential to infringe the rights of persons who hold 
interests in land within the Order Limits under Article 1 of the First 
Protocol.  Such an infringement is authorised by law so long as: 
9.4.1 
the statutory procedures for making the Order are followed 
and there is a compelling case in the public interest for the 
inclusion of powers of compulsory acquisition in the Order; 
and 
9.4.2 
the interference with the convention right is proportionate.   
9.5 
In preparing the Application, APL has considered the potential 
infringement of the Convention rights in consequence of the inclusion of 
compulsory acquisition powers within the Order.  APL considers that 
there would be a very significant public benefit arising from the grant of 
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
74 
the Order.  The benefit is only realised if the Order is accompanied by 
the grant of powers of compulsory acquisition.  APL has concluded, on 
balance, that the significant public benefits outweigh the effects upon 
persons who own property within the Order Land. For those affected by 
expropriation or dispossession, compensation is payable in accordance 
with the statutory compensation code.   
9.6 
In relation to Article 6, there has been opportunity to make 
representations regarding the preparation of the Application. In 
accordance with Part 5 of the PA 2008, APL has consulted with persons 
set out in the categories contained in Section 44 of the PA 2008, which 
includes owners of land within the Order Limits and those who may be 
able to make claims either under Sections 7 and 10 of the Compulsory 
Purchase Act 1965 in respect of injurious affection or under Part 1 of 
the Land Compensation Act 1973.  Also, the beneficiaries of rights 
overridden by the exercise of powers in the Order would be capable of 
making claims under Section 10 of the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965.   
9.7 
Furthermore, representations can also be made in response to any 
notice given under Section 56 of the PA 2008 for consideration at 
examination of the Application for Development Consent by the 
Examining authority and in any written representations procedure which 
the Examining authority decides to uphold or at any compulsory 
acquisition hearing held under Section 92 of the PA 2008.   
9.8 
Should the Order be made, any person aggrieved may challenge the 
Order in the High Court if they consider that the grounds for doing so 
are made out pursuant to Section 118 of the PA 2008.  
9.9 
In relation to matters of compensation for land to be acquired, affected 
persons have the right to apply to the Upper Tribunal (Lands Chamber), 
which is an independent judicial body to determine the compensation 
payable.   
9.10 
For the above reasons, any infringement of the Convention rights of 
those whose interests are affected by the inclusion in the Order of 
powers of compulsory acquisition, is proportionate and legitimate and is 
in accordance with national and European law.  For the reasons set out 
in Sections 6 and 7 of this Statement, APL considers that there is a 
compelling case in the public interest for the exercise of such powers of 
compulsory acquisition.  APL considers that it would, therefore, be 
appropriate and proportionate for the Secretary of State to make the 
Order, including the grant of compulsory acquisition powers.   
10. 
FURTHER INFORMATION 
10.1 
Negotiation of Sale 
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
75 
10.1.1 Owners and occupiers of property affected by the Order who 
wish to negotiate a sale or discuss matters of compensation 
should contact Susannah Crawford of APL (Tel - 0131 550 
3380, email - scrawford@stagenergy.com). 
10.2 
Compensation 
10.2.1 Provision is made by statute with regard to compensation for 
the compulsory acquisition of land and the depreciation value of 
properties. Helpful information is given in the series of booklets 
published by the Department for Communities and Local 
Government 
entitled 
"Compulsory 
Purchase 
and 
Compensation" listed below:- 
(a) 
Booklet No. 1 - Compulsory Purchase Procedure; 
(b) 
Booklet No. 2 - Compensation to Business Owners and 
Occupiers; 
(c) 
Booklet No. 3 - Compensation to Agricultural Owners 
and Occupiers; 
(d) 
Booklet No.4 - Compensation for Residential Owners 
and Occupiers; and 
(e) 
Booklet No.5 – Reducing the Adverse Effects of Public 
Development: Mitigation Works.  
10.2.2 Copies of these booklets are obtainable, free of charge, from: 
https://www.gov.uk/government/collections/compulsory-
purchase-system-guidance. 
 
11. 
CONCLUSIONS 
11.1 
APL submits, for the reasons explained in this Statement, that the 
inclusion of powers of compulsory acquisition in the Order for the 
purposes of the Project meets the conditions of Section 122 of the PA 
2008 as well as the considerations in the Guidance.   
11.2 
The acquisition of land and rights (including restrictive covenants) and 
the temporary use of land, together with the overriding of interests, 
rights and restrictive covenants and the suspension or extinguishment 
of private rights is no more than is reasonably required to facilitate or is 
incidental to the Project.   
11.3 
Furthermore, the land identified to be subject to compulsory acquisition 
is no more than is reasonably necessary for that purpose and is 
proportionate, as is shown in the Order (Document Reference 3.1), the 
Works Plan (Document Reference 2.3) and other information both in 
 
 
Abergelli Power Station 
Application for Development Consent 
Document Reference: 4.1 
 
 
95245481.1\KJ13 
76 
this Statement and in other document accompanying the Application for 
Development Consent.  
11.4 
The need for the Project, suitability of the Order Land and the support 
for such projects is in NPS EN-1 and NPS EN-2, which together 
demonstrate that there is a compelling case in the public interest for the 
land to be acquired compulsorily.  
11.5 
All reasonable alternatives to compulsory acquisition have been 
explored. Given the national and local need for the Project and the 
support for it found in policy, as well as the suitability of the Order Land 
(for the reasons outlined above), compulsory acquisition of the land and 
rights and the temporary use of land, together with the overriding of 
interests, rights and restrictive covenants and the suspension or 
extinguishment of matters affecting the Order Land identified by APL for 
the Project is justified.   
11.6 
The proposed interference with the rights of those with an interest in the 
Order Land is for a legitimate purpose, namely the Project, and is 
necessary and proportionate to that purpose.  APL considers that the 
substantial public benefits to be derived from the proposed compulsory 
acquisition of the Order Land decisively outweigh the private loss that 
would be suffered by those whose land is to be acquired.   
11.7 
APL has set out clear and specific proposals regarding how the Order 
Land will be used.   
11.8 
The requisite funds are available, and will remain available during the 
up to five year period within which the Order could be implemented, to 
meet any costs of land acquisition and compensation payable as a 
result of the use of powers of compulsory acquisition. The draft Order 
makes provision for a guarantee to secure payment of compensation, 
which may be requested for up to 15 years from the date of exercise of 
the relevant powers of compulsory acquisition, which will allow sufficient 
time for compensation claims (which arise during the 5 year period in 
which the powers may be exercised) to be settled. 
11.9 
The purpose of the powers of compulsory acquisition in the Order is 
entirely legitimate and justifies interfering with the rights of those 
persons with an interest in the land proposed to be acquired. 
 
