 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SCOPING OPINION  
Proposed Millbrook Power 
Project 
 
 
 
July 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scoping Opinion  
for Millbrook Power Project 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CONTENTS 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
1.0 
INTRODUCTION .................................................................... 1 
2.0 
THE PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT ............................................ 4 
3.0 
EIA APPROACH AND TOPIC AREAS ..................................... 15 
4.0 
OTHER INFORMATION ........................................................ 30 
APPENDIX 1 – LIST OF CONSULTEES 
APPENDIX 2 – RESPONDENTS TO CONSULTATION AND COPIES OF 
REPLIES 
APPENDIX 3 – PRESENTATION OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL 
STATEMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scoping Opinion  
for Millbrook Power Project 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
This is the Scoping Opinion (‘the Opinion’) provided by the Secretary of 
State (‘SoS’) in respect of the content of the Environmental Statement for 
the Millbrook Power Project (‘the Project’) at ‘The Rookery’, near 
Stewartby, Bedfordshire. The proposal is for a new power generation plant 
in the form of a Simple Cycle Gas Turbine (SCGT) gas fired peaking power 
generating station fuelled by natural gas and capable of providing an 
electrical capacity of up to 299 megawatts (MW).  
This report sets out the Secretary of State’s opinion on the basis of the 
information provided in the report by Millbrook Power Limited (‘the 
applicant’) entitled ‘Millbrook Power Project Environmental Impact 
Assessment Scoping Report - June 2014’ (‘the Scoping Report’). This 
Opinion can only reflect the proposals as currently described by the 
applicant.  
The Secretary of State has consulted on the Scoping Report and the 
responses received have been taken into account in adopting this Opinion. 
The Secretary of State is not satisfied that the topic areas identified in the 
Scoping Report encompass those matters identified in Schedule 4, Part 1, 
paragraph 19 of the Infrastructure Planning (Environmental Impact 
Assessment) Regulations 2009 (as amended) (‘the EIA Regulations’).  The 
Secretary of State recommends that the environmental statement should 
also cover potential impacts caused by the removal and disposal of waste, 
and 
by 
electric 
and 
magnetic 
fields 
associated 
with 
electricity 
transmission. 
The Secretary of State draws attention both to the general points and 
those made in respect of each of the specialist topic areas in this Opinion. 
The main potential issues identified are:  
 
Air quality 
 
Noise and vibration 
 
Ecology 
 
Water quality and resources 
 
Geology, ground conditions and land use 
 
Landscape and visual 
 
Traffic and transport 
 
Cultural heritage and archaeology 
Matters are not scoped out unless specifically addressed and justified by 
the applicant, and confirmed as being scoped out by the Secretary of 
State. 
The Secretary of State notes the potential need to carry out an 
assessment under the Habitats Regulations1. 
                                       
1 The Conservation of Habitats and Species Regulations 2010 (as amended) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scoping Opinion for Millbrook Power Project 
 
1 
1.0 INTRODUCTION 
Background 
1.1 
On 20 June 2014 the SoS received a scoping report submitted by 
Millbrook Power Limited under Regulation 8 of the EIA Regulations 
in order to request a scoping opinion for the proposed Millbrook 
Power Project. This Opinion is adopted in response to this request 
and should be read in conjunction with the applicant’s Scoping 
Report. 
1.2 
The applicant has formally provided notification under Regulation 
6(1) (b) of the EIA Regulations that it proposes to provide an ES in 
respect of the proposed development. Therefore, in accordance 
with Regulation 4(2) (a) of the EIA Regulations, the proposed 
development is determined to be EIA development. 
1.3 
The EIA Regulations enable an applicant, before making an 
application for an order granting development consent, to ask the 
SoS to state in writing their formal opinion (a ‘scoping opinion’) on 
the information to be provided in the environmental statement 
(ES).   
1.4 
Before adopting a scoping opinion the SoS must take into account: 
(a) the specific characteristics of the particular development; 
(b) the specific characteristics of the development of the type 
concerned; and 
(c) environmental 
features 
likely 
to 
be 
affected 
by 
the 
development’. 
(EIA Regulation 8 (9)) 
1.5 
This Opinion sets out what information the SoS considers should 
be included in the ES for the proposed development. The Opinion 
has taken account of:  
i 
the EIA Regulations  
ii 
the nature and scale of the proposed development  
iii 
the nature of the receiving environment, and 
iv 
current best practice in the preparation of environmental 
statements.  
1.6 
The SoS has also taken account of the responses received from 
the statutory consultees (see Appendix 2 of this Opinion). The 
matters addressed by the applicant have been carefully considered 
and use has been made of professional judgement and experience 
in order to adopt this Opinion. It should be noted that when it 
Scoping Opinion for Millbrook Power Project 
 
2 
comes to consider the ES, the SoS will take account of relevant 
legislation and guidelines (as appropriate). The SoS will not be 
precluded from requiring additional information if it is considered 
necessary in connection with the ES submitted with that 
application when considering the application for a development 
consent order (DCO).  
1.7 
This Opinion should not be construed as implying that the SoS 
agrees with the information or comments provided by the 
applicant in their request for an opinion from the SoS. In 
particular, comments from the SoS in this Opinion are without 
prejudice to any decision taken by the SoS (on submission of the 
application) that any development identified by the applicant is 
necessarily to be treated as part of a nationally significant 
infrastructure project (NSIP), or associated development, or 
development that does not require development consent. 
1.8 
Regulation 8(3) of the EIA Regulations states that a request for a 
scoping opinion must include:  
(a) ‘a plan sufficient to identify the land; 
(b) a brief description of the nature and purpose of the 
development and of its possible effects on the environment; 
and 
(c) such other information or representations as the person 
making the request may wish to provide or make’. 
(EIA Regulation 8 (3)) 
1.9 
The SoS considers that this has been provided in the applicant’s 
Scoping Report. 
The Secretary of State’s Consultation 
1.10 
The SoS has a duty under Regulation 8(6) of the EIA Regulations 
to consult widely before adopting a scoping opinion. A full list of 
the bodies consulted for the purposes of this scoping opinion is 
provided at Appendix 1. The list has been compiled by the SoS 
under their duty to notify the consultees in accordance with 
Regulation 9(1)(a). The applicant should note that whilst the SoS’s 
list can inform their consultation, it should not be relied upon for 
that purpose.   
1.11 
The list of respondents who replied within the statutory timeframe 
and whose comments have been taken into account in the 
preparation of this Opinion is provided at Appendix 2 along with 
copies of their comments, to which the applicant should refer in 
undertaking the EIA. 
1.12 
The 
ES 
submitted 
by 
the 
applicant 
should 
demonstrate 
consideration of the points raised by the consultation bodies. It is 
Scoping Opinion for Millbrook Power Project 
 
3 
recommended that a table is provided in the ES summarising the 
scoping responses from the consultation bodies and how they are, 
or are not, addressed in the ES. 
1.13 
Any consultation responses received after the statutory deadline 
for receipt of comments will not be taken into account in this 
Opinion. Late responses will be forwarded to the applicant and will 
be made available on the Planning Inspectorate’s website. The 
applicant should also give due consideration to those comments in 
carrying out the EIA. 
Structure of the Document 
1.14 
This Opinion is structured as follows: 
Section 1 
Introduction 
Section 2 
The proposed development 
Section 3 
EIA approach and topic areas 
Section 4 
Other information 
This Opinion is accompanied by the following Appendices: 
Appendix 1 List of consultees 
Appendix 2 Respondents to consultation and copies of replies 
Appendix 3 Presentation of the environmental statement 
 
 
Scoping Opinion for Millbrook Power Project 
 
4 
2.0 THE PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT 
Introduction 
2.1 
The following is a summary of the information on the proposed 
development and its site and surroundings prepared by the 
applicant and included in their Scoping Report. The information 
has not been verified and it has been assumed that the 
information provided reflects the existing knowledge of the 
proposed development and the potential receptors/resources. 
The Applicant’s Information 
Overview of the proposed development 
2.2 
The proposed Millbrook Power Project comprises  a new power 
generation plant in the form of a simple cycle gas turbine (SCGT) 
gas fired peaking power generating station, fuelled by natural gas 
and capable of providing an electrical capacity of up to 299MW. 
2.3 
Section 1.1.2 of the Scoping Report identifies the following 
principal components of the proposed development:   
 
generating equipment including gas turbine generators which 
would be located within the generating equipment site; 
 
a new purpose built access Road;  
 
a temporary construction compound (the laydown area),  
 
a new gas connection to bring natural gas to the generating 
equipment from the National Transmission System (NTS); 
and 
 
a new electrical connection to export power from the 
generating equipment to the National Grid Electricity 
Transmission System (NETS). 
Description of the site and surrounding area  
The Application Site 
2.4 
The generating equipment, access road and laydown area are 
described in the Scoping Report as forming the ‘Power Generation 
Plant’ and as being located within the ‘Power Generation Plant 
Site’.  The new gas and electrical connections are described 
respectively as located within the ‘Gas Connection Opportunity 
Area’ and the ‘Electrical Connection Opportunity Area’.  The project 
site encompasses the power generation plant site and both 
Opportunity Areas.       
2.5 
The power generation plant site and part of the gas and electrical 
connections would be situated on land within former clay pits 
Scoping Opinion for Millbrook Power Project 
 
5 
known as ‘The Rookery’ and designated as Rookery Clay Pits 
County Wildlife Site (CWS).  
2.6 
The Rookery is situated in the Marston Vale between Milton 
Keynes and Bedford, approximately 3 km north of Ampthill, and    
7 km south west of Bedford.  The gas and electrical connections 
would be located within the Opportunity Areas (identified on Figure 
1 of the Scoping Report) and would extend out from The Rookery 
into farmland to the south and/or east. 
2.7 
The Rookery comprises two large former clay pits, Rookery North 
and Rookery South Pits, separated by an east-west spine of 
unexcavated clay. The generating equipment site, laydown area 
and parts of the access road and gas and electrical connections 
would be located within Rookery South Pit which is approximately 
95ha and is bound by steep clay banks.  The pit base includes a 
range of wetland habitats, including open water, reed beds, pools 
and bare inundated clay with ephemeral water bodies. The 
remaining land at the original ground level around the periphery of 
Rookery South Pit, approximately 42m above ordnance datum 
(AOD), is predominantly bare ground that has been cleared of 
vegetation. 
2.8 
The Rookery is currently the subject of an ongoing Low Level 
Restoration Scheme (LLRS) by the landowner.  Once restored, 
Rookery South Pit will be approximately 15m below the 
surrounding ground level in the vicinity of the generating 
equipment site and laydown area. 
2.9 
Road access to the power generation plant site is currently from 
the north near Stewartby via the A421, Bedford Road and Green 
Lane (Figure 1 of the Scoping Report refers). A junction on Green 
Lane leads to an access track on land on the western side of 
Rookery North Pit which extends southwards into Rookery South 
Pit and the generating equipment site. Depending on their selected 
locations, the gas and electrical connections would either be 
primarily accessed from Junction 13 of the M1 (to the south west 
of the project site) via the A507, Sandhill Close, Houghton Lane, 
Millbrook Road and the B530 Ampthill Road, or from Bedford Road, 
via Woburn Road, Manor Road, B530 Ampthill Road and Millbrook 
Road.  
2.10 
There are overhead power lines that run west to east south of 
Rookery South Pit.  
2.11 
A number of existing public footpaths are located in and around 
the project site, linking it to the wider Marston Vale.  There is 
limited public access to Rookery South Pit itself. 
2.12 
A watercourse, the Mill Brook, flows in a northerly direction along 
the western side of Rookery South Pit whilst a tributary 
watercourse passes to the south of Rookery South Pit within the 
Scoping Opinion for Millbrook Power Project 
 
6 
project site, joining Mill Brook in the vicinity of South Pillinge Farm  
(Figure 2 of the Scoping Report). 
The Surrounding Area 
2.13 
Significant areas of land around Stewartby, including The Rookery, 
have previously been worked for clay that was used in Stewartby 
Brickworks until it closed in 2008. To the north of The Rookery, 
buildings associated with the former Stewartby Brickworks, 
including the chimneys, remain.  The sites have been restored and 
are in different uses, including water based recreation and 
commercial.  The area to the south and east of the project site is 
made up of large open fields, hedgerows, and groups of trees and 
is crossed by electricity pylons.   
2.14 
The parts of the gas and electrical connection Opportunity Areas 
within the project site that lie outside of Rookery South Pit are 
located within a mostly undeveloped agricultural landscape (within 
fields classified as Grade 3) which includes areas of woodland, 
native hedgerows and a number of water-bodies such as ditches. 
2.15 
Watercourses within and surrounding the project site are shown on 
Figure 2.  They include Elstow Brook to the west of the site, and 
Stewartby Lake, which is within 2km of the site.  Mill Brook 
crosses the site. There are smaller streams, brooks and ditches 
near the perimeter of Rookery South Pit, and ponds and lakes in 
both Rookery North Pit and Rookery South Pit close to the access 
road.  The project site is entirely within Flood Zone 1.              
2.16 
Nearby roads include the A421 which is approximately 2 km to the 
west and the B530 which lies to the east of the Proposed 
development Site (Figure 2 of the Scoping Report refers). The 
A421 connects directly to Junction 13 of the M1 Motorway which is 
approximately 5.6 km to the south west of the project site. The 
Midland Mainline railway and Marston Vale line border the power 
generation plant site to the east and west respectively. 
2.17 
The site is within the Northern Marston Vale Growth Area, which is 
allocated in Central Bedfordshire Council’s Core Strategy for 
regeneration and development. Neighbouring residential areas 
include: Stewartby to the north of Green Lane and The Rookery; 
Houghton Conquest approximately 1.5 km to the east; Marston 
Moretaine approximately 1.2 km to the west; and Millbrook 
approximately 400 m to the south (Figures 2 and 3 of the Scoping 
Report refer).  The Houghton Park residential care home is within 
1km of the project site. A vehicle testing ground is located to the 
west of the gas and electrical connection Opportunity Areas. 
2.18 
Marston Vale Millennium Country Park is 50m to the west of the 
project site and provides habitat conservation opportunities, 
indoor and outdoor community amenities, a wind turbine and a 
Forest Centre.     
Scoping Opinion for Millbrook Power Project 
 
7 
2.19 
Section 5.5.5 of the Scoping Report identifies the presence of 6 
Sites of Special Scientific Interest (SSSI) within a 5km radius of 
the survey site, including Cooper’s Hill SSSI approximately 550m 
to the south-east of the south-eastern corner of the survey site. 
There are also 3 Local Nature Reserves (LNRs) within a 5 km 
radius of the project site, the closest of which is Flitwick Wood LNR 
approximately 3.3km to the south of the site. There are also 13 
Country Wildlife Sites (CWS) within 2km of the project site, the 
closest of which is Rookery Clay Pit CWS, within which the site is 
located.   
2.20 
Section 5.10.4 of the Scoping Report identifies cultural heritage 
assets within 5km of the project site, including scheduled 
monuments, listed buildings, the Ampthill Park Grade II Registered 
Park and Garden, and eight conservation areas.  Section 5.10.5 
notes there are 219 Grade ll listed buildings within 5km of the 
project site, including the closest dwelling, South Pillinge 
Farmhouse, located approximately 90m to the west, and 49 
records of undesignated cultural heritage assets within 5km.   
Description of the proposed development  
2.21 
The proposed power generation plant would be designed as a 
peaking plant, fired by natural gas supplied by a new underground 
gas pipeline, connecting the power generation plant to the existing 
electricity NTS by either an underground cable or an overhead 
line.  It would have a capacity of up to 299MW.  The locations of 
the elements on the project site are yet to be determined.    
2.22 
As a peaking plant, the generating equipment would operate for 
up to 1,500 hours per year when there is a ‘stress event’ (i.e. 
when there is a surge in demand for electricity associated with a 
particular event) or where there is a sudden drop in power being 
generated from plants which are constantly operational (e.g. a 
sudden outage).  
2.23 
Section 3.3.4 of the Scoping Report describes the SCGT gas 
turbine options capable of generating up to 299MW under 
consideration by the applicant.  These are aero-derivative gas 
turbines or ‘industrial’ type gas turbines.  The applicant anticipates 
that 3 – 5 aero-derivative turbines or 1 – 2 industrial turbines 
would be required to generate 299MW.   
2.24 
The Scoping Report sets out that the main equipment in a SCGT is 
a 
gas 
turbine 
generator, 
which 
comprises 
the 
following 
components: 
 
inlet air filter; 
 
air compressor; 
 
combustion chamber; 
 
power turbine(s); and 
Scoping Opinion for Millbrook Power Project 
 
8 
 
exhaust silencer. 
2.25 
Sections 3.3.7 – 3.3.8 of the Scoping Report provide operational 
details of a SCGT plant and refer to Figure 4, a diagram of SCGT 
operation.   
2.26 
The gas connection would be in the form of a new underground 
gas pipeline connection (‘the Pipeline’) and above ground 
installation (AGI) and is required to connect the generating 
equipment to the existing high pressure NTS in order to provide a 
reliable supply of fuel. 
2.27 
Sections 3.4.2 – 3.4.4 identify the NTS feeder possible connection 
points. Identification of specific route corridor options is still 
ongoing but it is anticipated that the gas connection would be 
situated within the gas connection Opportunity Area to the south 
and east of the generating equipment site (Figure 1 of the Scoping 
Report refers). 
2.28 
Connection of the pipeline to an NTS feeder would require two 
AGIs to be installed which will include: a Minimum Offtake 
Connection (MOC) facility, and a PIG Trap Facility (PTF). 
2.29 
The electrical connection will enable power to be exported from 
the generating equipment to the NETS, and will comprise a new 
substation and two new electrical circuits either in the form of an 
underground cable or overhead line. 
2.30 
Section 3.5.2 of the Scoping Report identifies the most suitable 
point of connection as a new substation to be located either on the 
generating equipment site or adjacent to the line of the existing 
National Grid double circuit 400 kV line which runs from Sundon to 
Grendon. 
2.31 
If an underground export cable option between the substation and 
NETS is selected, up to two new sealing end compounds (SECs) 
would also be required, constructed at the point where the 
underground cable emerges to facilitate its connection into the 
NETS. It is possible that one, both or neither of the SEC(s) or 
substation will be required depending on the selected option for 
the electrical connection. 
Proposed access  
2.32 
A new purpose built access road 1.7km long would be constructed 
within the power generation plant site from Green Lane to the 
generating equipment site.  
Scoping Opinion for Millbrook Power Project 
 
9 
Construction  
2.33 
A temporary laydown area for the storage of plant and equipment 
during construction would be provided adjacent to the generating 
equipment Site, as shown in Figure 1 of the Scoping Report. 
2.34 
Section 3.3.18 of the Scoping Report states that construction and 
commissioning 
of 
the 
proposed 
development 
would 
take 
approximately 22 months. The main works associated with the 
construction phase would be excavation and site levelling for new 
foundations, potential piling (if required) and the laying of the gas 
and electrical connections. No requirements for demolition or 
remediation have been identified at this stage. 
2.35 
Prior 
to 
the 
construction 
of 
the 
proposed 
development 
commencing, it is anticipated the following components of the 
Rookery LLRS will be complete:  
 
topsoil stripping and stockpiling of material from the 
remaining southern permitted extraction area on the 
southern side of Rookery South Pit to enable the extraction of 
clay for use in the proposed restoration works; 
 
formation of a noise screening bund from stripped topsoil and 
subsoil  along the western edge of the works adjacent to 
Pillinge Farm; 
 
redirection of existing surface water ditches and provision of 
an upper carrier ditch around the southern perimeter of the 
southern permitted excavation area; 
 
excavation of clay from the southern permitted extraction 
area to provide material for the proposed restoration works 
and buttressing works, including provision of a new access 
ramp from the extraction area into the base of the pit; 
 
construction of a new access ramp in the north west corner of 
Rookery South Pit; 
 
construction of a landscaped platform graded so that 
drainage falls across the entire base of Rookery South Pit, 
utilising material won from either regrading of the base of the 
pit or from the southern permitted extraction area, to enable 
gravity drainage to occur in the base of the pit; 
 
construction of surface water interceptor channels collecting 
to a single attenuation pond located at the north western 
corner of Rookery South Pit. The surface water interceptor 
channels and attenuation pond will include habitat mitigation 
and ecological enhancement measures; 
 
provision of a pumping station to enable external discharge of 
collected waters from the attenuation pond to an existing 
ditch/culvert discharge to Stewartby Lake; 
Scoping Opinion for Millbrook Power Project 
 
10 
 
buttressing of the pit edge slopes to the south (part), east 
and north (part) to provide a slope stabilisation solution for 
the existing slopes; and 
 
redirection of existing surface water ditches and provision of 
an upper carrier ditch around the southern perimeter of the 
southern excavation area. 
Operation and Maintenance 
2.36 
The power generation plant would have an operational life of 25 
years, after which it would be decommissioned or re-powered.  For 
the purpose of the EIA, the Scoping Report has assumed that it 
will be decommissioned.  
2.37 
Operation of the generating equipment would require up to 15 full 
time staff over the lifetime of the proposed development working 
in shifts, so less than 15 people will be on site at any one time 
during normal operations.  Contracted engineering staff would 
undertake regular maintenance shutdowns and maintenance of the 
gas and electrical connections. 
Decommissioning 
2.38 
Section 3.3.20 of the Scoping Report states that decommissioning 
would involve the removal of all power generation plant items and 
restoration of the project site to a similar, pre-construction 
condition. This process is also likely to take approximately 22 
months. 
The Secretary of State’s Comments  
Description of the application site and surrounding area  
2.39 
In addition to detailed baseline information to be provided within 
topic specific chapters of the ES, the SoS would expect the ES to 
include a section that summarises the site and surroundings. This 
would identify the context of the proposed development, any 
relevant designations, and sensitive receptors. This section should 
identify land that could be directly or indirectly affected by the 
proposed development and any associated auxiliary facilities, 
landscaping areas and potential off site mitigation or compensation 
schemes. 
2.40 
The power generation plant application site and the surrounding 
area are clearly described within the Scoping Report and it is 
expected that a comprehensive description would also be provided 
within the ES. 
2.41 
The power generation plant will require a new underground gas 
pipeline connection and AGI to connect the generating equipment 
to the existing high pressure NTS to provide fuel.  The SoS notes 
that the ES will include details of the route selected.  
Scoping Opinion for Millbrook Power Project 
 
11 
2.42 
The SoS notes that it is anticipated that some elements of the 
Rookery LLRS would be complete by the time construction would 
be expected to begin.  The SoS would expect to see a description 
of the stage that the LLRS had reached at the time of the DCO 
submission, and a clear explanation of what the ultimate base 
level of the site proposed for the power generation plant within 
Rookery South Pit will be in metres AOD (mAOD). The ES should 
also give consideration to any implications of future works.    
2.43 
The project site plan at Figure 1 does not name the surrounding 
roads and it is not possible to see them on Figure 3 due to the 
plan scale.  Figure 3 is a useful plan but does not identify 
environmentally sensitive features such as public rights of way 
(PROWs).  It would be helpful to include relevant plans in each 
topic section of the ES that identify the study area and receptors, 
and ensure that the title of identified features reflects that used in 
the text, eg South Pillinge Farm is identified as Pillinge Farm South 
on Figure 2.                   
Description of the proposed development  
2.44 
The applicant should ensure that the description of the proposed 
development that is being applied for is as accurate and firm as 
possible as this will form the basis of the environmental impact 
assessment. It is understood that at this stage in the evolution of 
the scheme the description of the proposals and even the location 
of the site may not be confirmed. The applicant should be aware 
however, that the description of the development in the ES must 
be sufficiently certain to meet the requirements of paragraph 17 of 
Schedule 4 Part 1 of the EIA Regulations, and there should 
therefore be more certainty by the time the ES is submitted with 
the DCO.  
2.45 
In the event that a draft DCO is submitted, the applicant should 
clearly define what elements of the proposed development are 
integral to the NSIP, and what elements are ‘associated 
development’ under the Planning Act 2008 (PA 2008) or an 
ancillary matter.   
2.46 
Any proposed works and/or infrastructure required as associated 
development, or as an ancillary matter, (whether on or off-site) 
should be considered as part of an integrated approach to 
environmental assessment.  
2.47 
The SoS recommends that the ES should include a clear 
description of all aspects of the proposed development, at the 
construction, operation and decommissioning stages, and include: 
 
land use requirements, including the area of the offshore 
elements 
 
site preparation 
Scoping Opinion for Millbrook Power Project 
 
12 
 
construction processes and methods 
 
transport routes 
 
operational requirements including the main characteristics of 
the production process and the nature and quantity of 
materials used, as well as waste arisings and their disposal 
 
maintenance activities including any potential environmental 
or navigation impacts, and 
 
emissions - water, air and soil pollution, noise, vibration, 
light, heat, radiation. 
2.48 
The Scoping Report does not contain a location plan or a layout 
plan, indicative or otherwise.  Although Figures 2 and 3 show the 
location of the proposed development in the wider area the scale 
makes it difficult  to discern features in the area other than those 
represented in the keys.  The ES should contain plans that clearly 
identify the proposed development’s location in the wider area, 
and that indicate the position of the main elements of the 
proposed development on the site.   
2.49 
The SoS notes that Table 3.1 of  the Scoping Report provides 
indicative dimensions for the main plant items, but that AOD levels 
are not defined and that the height of the stacks is defined in 
terms of ‘ground level surrounding Rookery South Pit’.  For the 
purposes of the ES, the heights of the elements of the 
development will need to be defined in minimum/maximum 
mAOD. 
2.50 
Figure 4 does not reflect the same elements of a gas turbine 
generator as identified in paragraph 3.3.6.  Diagrams and figures 
in the ES should reflect the text so that it is easy to read across 
between them.       
2.51 
Section 3.4 of the Scoping Report provides information on the gas 
connection Opportunity Area.  It would be useful to include in the 
ES diagrams of elements that will be required, such as the MOC 
and PTF.    
2.52 
The environmental effects of all wastes to be processed and 
removed from the site should be addressed. The ES will need to 
identify and describe the control processes and mitigation 
procedures for storing and transporting waste off site. All waste 
types should be quantified and classified.  
Alternatives 
2.53 
The ES requires that the applicant provide ‘An outline of the main 
alternatives studied by the applicant and an indication of the main 
reasons for the applicant’s choice, taking into account the 
environmental effects’ (See Appendix 3).  
Scoping Opinion for Millbrook Power Project 
 
13 
2.54 
The SoS notes that a number of site locations and technology 
options were considered by the applicant, and is pleased to note 
that a detailed appraisal will be included in the ES.       
Flexibility   
2.55 
The SoS notes the comments in the Scoping Report that the 
detailed design of the power generation plant is still being 
developed and that the draft description of development contains 
a number of variables, including the type of turbine, the location 
on the site of the generating equipment, the routes for the gas 
and electrical connections, and the configuration of the electrical 
connection. The SoS welcomes that the proposals are to be firmed 
up during the pre-application stage but encourages the description 
to be as accurate and firm as possible so that its environmental 
impacts can be more accurately assessed. 
2.56 
The SoS notes the applicant’s intention where the details of the 
scheme cannot be defined precisely for the EIA to assess the likely 
worst case scenario. The SoS welcomes the reference to Planning 
Inspectorate Advice Note 9 ‘Using the ‘Rochdale Envelope’ but also 
directs attention to the ‘Flexibility’ section in Appendix 3 of this 
Opinion which provides additional details on the recommended 
approach. 
2.57 
It should be noted that if the proposed development changes 
substantially during the EIA process, prior to application 
submission, the applicant may wish to consider the need to 
request a new scoping opinion. 
Grid connection  
2.58 
The SoS notes that the proposed routes for the gas and electricity 
connections, the configuration of the electricity connection, and 
the location and number of related elements, such as substations, 
are still to be determined.  All options included in the proposed 
development DCO application must be fully assessed in the ES and 
plans provided to reflect each option.       
Proposed access 
2.59 
The SoS considers that information regarding site access routes 
for construction traffic and any vehicles carrying abnormal 
indivisible loads (AIL) should be clearly identified and assessed 
within the ES, including any alterations required to the existing 
road network to accommodate any AIL. The ES should also identify 
whether any alterations to the existing road network would be 
retained or reinstated, and assess the potential effects arising. 
Scoping Opinion for Millbrook Power Project 
 
14 
Construction  
2.60 
The SoS considers that information on construction including: 
phasing of programme; construction methods and activities 
associated with each phase; siting of construction compounds 
(including on and off site); lighting equipment/requirements; and 
number, movements and parking of construction vehicles (both 
HGVs and staff) should be clearly indicated in the ES.  
Operation and maintenance 
2.61 
Information on the operation and maintenance of the proposed 
development should be included in the ES and should cover but 
not be limited to such matters as:  the number of full/part-time 
jobs; the operational hours and if appropriate, shift patterns; the 
number and types of vehicle movements generated during the 
operational stage. 
Decommissioning 
2.62 
The SoS welcomes the consideration of decommissioning.  Whilst 
it is acknowledged that information on the decommissioning 
strategy may not be fully developed at this early stage, the 
purpose 
of such a long term assessment is to enable the 
decommissioning of the works to be taken into account in the 
design and use of materials so that structures can be taken down 
with the minimum of disruption. The SoS advises that as much 
detail as possible on the proposed approach, including the process 
and methods of decommissioning, is provided within the ES to 
ensure that the long term assessment can consider the impacts of 
decommissioning for each element of the proposed scheme. 
Scoping Opinion for Millbrook Power Project 
 
15 
3.0 EIA APPROACH AND TOPIC AREAS 
Introduction 
3.1 
This section contains the SoS’s specific comments on the approach 
to the ES and topic areas as set out in the Scoping Report. General 
advice on the presentation of an ES is provided at Appendix 3 of 
this Opinion and should be read in conjunction with this Section.  
3.2 
Applicants are advised that the scope of the DCO application 
should be clearly addressed and assessed consistently within the 
ES.  
Environmental Statement (ES) - approach 
3.3 
The information provided in the Scoping Report sets out the 
proposed approach to the preparation of the ES. Whilst early 
engagement on the scope of the ES is to be welcomed, the SoS 
notes that the level of information provided at this stage is not 
always sufficient to allow for detailed comments from either the 
SoS or the consultees.  
3.4 
The SoS would suggest that the applicant ensures that appropriate 
consultation is undertaken with the relevant consultees in order to 
agree wherever possible the timing and relevance of survey work 
as well as the methodologies to be used. The SoS notes and 
welcomes the intention to finalise the scope of investigations in 
conjunction with ongoing stakeholder liaison and consultation with 
the relevant regulatory authorities and their advisors. 
3.5 
The extent of the study area is not set out for each topic in the 
Scoping Report.  The SoS recommends that the physical scope of 
the study areas should be identified under all the environmental 
topics and should be sufficiently robust in order to undertake the 
assessment. The extent of the study areas should be on the basis 
of recognised professional guidance, whenever such guidance is 
available. The study areas should also be agreed with the relevant 
consultees and, where this is not possible, this should be stated 
clearly in the ES and a reasoned justification given. The scope 
should also cover the breadth of the topic area and the temporal 
scope, and these aspects should be described and justified. 
3.6 
The SoS notes that the proposed development includes gas and 
electrical connections and refers the applicant to the comments of 
The Health and Safety Executive, Public Health England, National 
Grid, and ES Pipelines in relation to safety issues and other points, 
including the locations of existing infrastructure, to be taken into 
consideration in deciding on the preferred configurations and 
routes.       
Scoping Opinion for Millbrook Power Project 
 
16 
3.7 
The SoS notes that a number of existing wayleaves and/or 
easements are in place that could be affected by the proposed 
access routes and the proposed electricity and gas connections, 
and recommends that the design of the proposed development 
and assessments in the ES take account of these.  
3.8 
The SoS notes the information in Section 4.2 and 4.3 of the 
Scoping Report on the assessment of potential cumulative effects, 
and developments that will be included in the assessment, and 
welcomes the applicant’s intention to include an assessment of 
cumulative impacts in each ES topic chapter and in the 
Conclusions chapter.  
3.9 
The SoS notes that there may be ongoing works on and around 
the project site in connection with the LLRS.  The SoS 
recommends that consideration is given to including in the 
cumulative impacts assessment potential further changes to the 
land that result from the LLRS subsequent to establishing the 
baselines for the topic assessments.   
3.10 
The SoS notes the applicant’s references to the possible inclusion 
of the East West Rail Project and the Bedford and Milton Keynes 
Waterway in the cumulative impacts assessment for this proposed 
development.  The applicant’s attention is drawn to the comments 
made about these proposals by Luton Borough Council and the 
Canal and River Trust, respectively, contained in Appendix 2 of 
this Opinion.  The SoS recommends that the applicant considers 
whether these proposals are at such a stage that they should be 
included 
in 
the 
cumulative 
impact 
assessment. 
 
Further 
information on the scope of cumulative impacts which should be 
included in the ES is provided at Appendix 3 to this Opinion. 
Matters to be scoped out 
3.11 
The applicant has identified in the relevant sections of the Scoping 
Report the matters proposed to be ‘scoped out’. These include:  
 
potential odour impacts during the operational phase; 
 
emissions to air from the gas and electrical connections 
during the operational phase;     
 
noise and vibration impacts from the gas and electrical 
connections (if an overhead line is constructed) during the 
operational phase;   
 
noise impacts from the electrical infrastructure that may be 
required, ie substation and up to two SECs, during the 
operational phase;   
 
impacts on water quality and resources during operation and 
decommissioning of the gas and electricity connections; 
Scoping Opinion for Millbrook Power Project 
 
17 
landscape and visual impacts on the nearest AONB (the 
Chilterns) to the project site;  
3.12 
Matters cannot be scoped out unless specifically addressed and 
justified by the applicant, and confirmed as being scoped out by 
the SoS.   
3.13 
Decisions to scope out impacts should be fully explained and 
justified in the ES.  At this stage, the SoS agrees that the following 
matters can be scoped out of the EIA during the operational 
phase:  potential odour impacts; emissions to air from the gas and 
electrical connections; noise and vibration impacts from the gas 
connections; and impacts on water quality and resources of the 
gas and electricity connections. 
3.14 
It is not explicitly stated in the Scoping Report whether the 
proposed electricity connection will be 132kV or 400kV, although it 
is indicated that it will connect to a 400kV network.  In the event 
that the connection will be 400kV the SoS does not agree that 
noise impacts from the electrical connections can be scoped out, 
as insufficient information has been provided by the applicant at 
this time to justify such an approach.     
3.15 
The SoS does not agree that noise impacts from the electrical 
infrastructure that may be required can be scoped out during the 
operational phase as insufficient information has been provided by 
the applicant at this time to justify such an approach.      
3.16 
The SoS does not agree that impacts on water quality and 
resources during the decommissioning of the gas and electricity 
connections can be scoped out as insufficient information has been 
provided at this time by the applicant to justify such an approach.  
Paragraph 5.6.12 of the Scoping Report refers to construction of 
the gas and electricity connections and states that effects during 
operation and decommissioning are unlikely to occur.  However, 
other sections of the Report suggest that it is not yet known 
whether the connections will be left in situ or removed following 
decommissioning of the proposed development.  In the event that 
the connections might be removed, the SoS does not agree that 
effects during decommissioning can be scoped out.  If the 
preferred option has not been decided by the time the DCO 
application is submitted, identification and an assessment of 
potential impacts on water resources during the decommissioning 
phase in relation to the connections should be included in the ES. 
3.17 
The SoS does not agree that landscape and visual impacts on the 
Chilterns AONB can be scoped out as insufficient information has 
been provided by the applicant at this time to justify such an 
approach.   
3.18 
Whilst the SoS has not agreed within this Opinion to scope out 
certain topics or matters on the basis of the information available 
Scoping Opinion for Millbrook Power Project 
 
18 
at this time, this does not prevent the applicant from subsequently 
agreeing with the relevant consultees to scope matters out of the 
ES, where further evidence has been provided to justify this 
approach. This approach should be explained fully in the ES. 
3.19 
In order to demonstrate that topics have not simply been 
overlooked, where topics are scoped out prior to submission of the 
DCO application, the ES should still explain the reasoning and 
justify the approach taken. 
National Policy Statements (NPSs)  
3.20 
Sector-specific NPSs are produced by the relevant Government 
Departments and set out national policy for nationally significant 
infrastructure projects (NSIPs). They provide the framework within 
which the Examining Authority will make their recommendations to 
the Secretary of State and include the Government’s objectives for 
the development of NSIPs.  
3.21 
The NPSs relevant to the proposed development, i.e. EN-1, EN-2, 
EN-4 and EN-5, set out both the generic and technology-specific 
impacts that should be considered in the EIA for the proposed 
development. When undertaking the EIA, the applicant must have 
regard to both the generic and technology-specific impacts and 
identify how these impacts have been assessed in the ES.  
3.22 
The Secretary of State must have regard to any matter that the 
Secretary of State thinks is important and relevant to the 
Secretary of State’s decision. This could include a draft NPS if the 
relevant NPS has not been formally designated. 
Environmental Statement - Structure  
3.23 
Section 4.2 of the Scoping Report sets out the proposed structure 
of the ES on which the applicant seeks the opinion of the SoS.  
3.24 
The SoS notes from Section 4.2, Table 4.1 that the EIA for the 
proposed development would cover topics under the following 
headings:  
 
Air Quality 
 
Noise and vibration 
 
Ecology 
 
Water quality and resources 
 
Geology, ground conditions and agriculture 
 
Landscape and visual 
 
Traffic, transport and access 
 
Cultural heritage and archaeology 
Scoping Opinion for Millbrook Power Project 
 
19 
 
Socio-economics  
3.25 
The SoS recommends that the ES should also cover potential 
impacts caused by the removal and disposal of waste; and as a 
result of the electric and magnetic fields generated by the 
proposed development.   
Topic Areas  
 Air Quality (see Scoping Report Section 5.3)  
3.26 
This section does not include a definition of what constitutes a 
significant effect, however the SoS notes that paragraph 5.5.2 of 
Section 5.2 (Significance Criteria) states that each ES technical 
chapter will include such a definition.   
3.27 
Air quality and dust levels should be considered not only on site 
but also off site, including along access roads and traffic routes, 
and local footpaths and other PROWs, especially during the 
construction phase. 
3.28 
The extent of the study area should be described and the reasons 
for selecting it provided.   
3.29 
The SoS notes that the nearest Air Quality Management Area 
(AQMA) is approximately 10km from the project site.  Any AQMAs 
that fall within the selected study area should be identified by 
name and their location should be shown on a plan either included 
in the ES or cross-referenced from the SoS.  The SoS considers 
that adverse changes to air quality should be assessed in relation 
to compliance with European air quality limit values and AQMAs. 
3.30 
Paragraph 5.3.6 identifies statutory ecologically designated sites 
within 10km of the project site but does not include any European 
sites, although there are references in this chapter to the need to 
consider European sites within 10km of the project site.   Flitwick 
Wood LNR and Flitton Moor LNR are not mentioned in this context, 
although these LNRs are identified in paragraph 5.5.5 of the 
Ecology section as within 5km of the project site.  The SoS 
recommends that reasoned justification should be provided within 
the ES for the inclusion/exclusion of the assessment of air quality 
impacts on ecologically designated sites.  
3.31 
Scoping Report Figure 3 shows environmentally sensitive receptors 
within a 5km area of the project site but does not include 
receptors for all topics, e.g. PROWs are not shown.  Each topic 
chapter should include a plan that identifies relevant sensitive 
receptors, by name where applicable, within the selected study 
area for that topic.       
3.32 
The SoS notes that this section identifies residential receptors 
within 1km of the project site.  The assessment should take 
Scoping Opinion for Millbrook Power Project 
 
20 
account of air emissions from the proposed development and 
emissions related to vehicular movements associated with the 
proposed development, particularly during the construction phase.  
Consideration should be given to whether a 1km study area is 
sufficient to identify all potentially significant impacts, such as 
those related to emissions from construction vehicles, and the SoS 
recommends that this is determined in consultation with the 
relevant local Councils. 
3.33 
The SoS welcomes the applicant’s intention to agree the 
assessment methodology for this topic with the relevant Council 
Officers and the Environment Agency (EA). The applicant’s 
attention is drawn to the comments made by Luton Borough 
Council, contained in Appendix 2 of this Opinion, in relation to 
factors that should be included in the modelling.   
3.34 
The SoS is pleased to note that the stack height will be based on 
the predicted maximum short term and long term ground level 
NOx concentrations, and that the detailed dispersion modelling will 
then be undertaken according to that stack height.  The SoS 
recommends that dispersion modelling considers a range of 
possibilities and seeks to ensure that the ‘worst case’ scenario is 
assessed, for example the ‘worst case’ may occur as a short term 
impact. The implications of stack height and dispersion of 
emissions will need to be clearly explained in the ES.   
3.35 
Consideration should be given to monitoring dust complaints 
during all phases of the proposed development.   
3.36 
The applicant is referred to the comments of Public Health England 
in Appendix 2 of this Opinion, particularly in relation to 
establishing the baseline for assessment purposes.    
3.37 
This ES topic chapter should cross-refer to the ES Ecology chapter, 
bearing in mind that there is the need to consider potential effects 
due to an increase in airborne pollution including fugitive dust 
emissions, especially during site preparation, demolition and 
construction.  
Noise and Vibration (see Scoping Report Section 5.4) 
3.38 
Paragraph 5.4.2 identifies sources of noise in the vicinity of the 
project site. These should be identified on a plan contained in the 
ES.   
3.39 
The SoS notes that the proposed development layout has not been 
finalised at this stage and recommends that consideration should 
be given to minimising the impacts of noise on sensitive receptors 
where possible by appropriate siting and orientation of the various 
elements of the proposed development.   
Scoping Opinion for Millbrook Power Project 
 
21 
3.40 
The SoS welcomes the applicant’s intention to agree the 
assessment methodology and the locations for the baseline noise 
survey with the relevant Council Environmental Health Officers, 
and draws attention to comments received from Bedford Borough 
Council and Central Bedfordshire Council, contained in Appendix 2 
in this respect. 
3.41 
Paragraph 5.4.5 states that noise sensitive receptors within 100m 
of construction and decommissioning activities will be identified, 
although paragraph 5.4.11 proposes that the study area for this 
topic will be an area within 1km of the project site, so the extent 
of the study area is unclear.  The study area must be clearly and 
consistently defined in the ES and the reasons for selecting it 
explained.  The applicant’s attention is drawn to the comments 
made by Bedford Borough Council, contained in Appendix 2 of this 
Opinion, 
in 
relation 
to 
the 
identification 
of 
receptors.  
Consideration should be given to whether the proposed study area 
is sufficient to identify potentially significant impacts on all 
relevant receptors.  The noise and vibration assessments should 
take account of traffic movements along access routes to the site, 
especially during the construction phase.  
3.42 
All activities that could generate noise and vibration impacts at all 
phases of the proposed development should be fully identified, 
e.g. such as piling, vehicle movements on and off site, and 
assessed in the ES.   Information should be provided in the ES on 
the types of vehicles and plant to be used during the construction 
phase and their potential effects.   
3.43 
Impacts of noise on people should be specifically addressed in the 
ES, and particularly any potential noise disturbance at night and 
other unsocial hours such as weekends and public holidays.  
3.44 
Consideration should be given to monitoring noise complaints 
during construction and when the development is operational.  
3.45 
The results from the noise and vibration assessments should also 
provide information to inform the ecological assessments, and this 
chapter should cross-refer to other chapters such as the ES 
Ecology chapter.    
Ecology (see Scoping Report Section 5.5) 
3.46 
The SoS recommends that the project should address fully the 
needs of protecting and enhancing biodiversity. The assessment 
should cover habitats, species and processes within the sites and 
surroundings. The SoS notes the recommendations in the 
Extended Phase 1 Habitats Survey for further surveys either on 
the project site or in the nearby area for the following species:   
bats; badgers; water voles; breeding birds; great crested newts 
(GCNs); reptiles; and terrestrial and aquatic invertebrates.    
Scoping Opinion for Millbrook Power Project 
 
22 
3.47 
Paragraph 5.5.4 states that a desk based assessment and Habitat 
Survey were undertaken in February 2014.   The SoS notes that 
Appendix 1 (Ecological Appraisal) of the Scoping Report includes 
an addendum to the Ecological Appraisal, which sets out the 
results of an ecological walkover survey carried out in March 2014 
following adjustments to the extent of the survey site for the 
proposed development.  The ES should clearly identify the total 
extent of the surveyed area and reference all the relevant reports.  
The SoS recommends that ecological surveys should be thorough, 
up to date and take account of other developments proposed in 
the vicinity. 
3.48 
This section does not identify the extent of the study areas that 
were used for all of the species identified.  Paragraph 5.5.5 
identifies six SSSIs within 5km of the project site but Appendix 1 
identifies seven SSSIs.  The applicant should ensure that study 
areas are clearly defined for each species and habitat, and that 
information on features within those study areas is consistent 
throughout the ES and any documents to which it refers.     
3.49 
The SoS notes the assumption in the Scoping Report that all GCNs 
will have been translocated from the project site as part of the 
current LLRS, and that therefore no further surveys of the project 
site will be required.  The stage that the LLRS has reached at the 
time of the application submission should be clearly explained in 
the ES, and relevant information in relation to protected species 
and habitats should be provided.         
3.50 
In relation to aquatic invertebrates, the SoS notes that it is stated 
that the ditches and ponds on site will be surveyed if a Water 
Framework Directive Report (WFD Report) is required. However, 
the Habitat Survey recommends that aquatic surveys are 
undertaken to determine the assemblage of aquatic invertebrates 
present on site, and that surveys may also be necessary to 
determine ecological quality if any watercourses are lost or in 
order to comply with the WFD.  The applicant must satisfy 
themselves that all necessary surveys have been undertaken prior 
to submission of the DCO application, and that all species and 
habitats that may be affected have been identified.      
3.51 
The SoS notes that no European sites have been identified at this 
stage, but welcomes the applicant’s intention to consult NE and 
relevant local Councils in order to establish the extent of the 
relevant study area and the potential need for a screening exercise 
and provision of information to inform an appropriate assessment 
under the Habitats Regulations.  The location of any European 
sites which may be affected by the proposed development should 
be clearly indicated on a plan accompanying the ES.  The Applicant 
is referred to the information on the Habitats Regulations in 
Section 4 of this Scoping Opinion.                                  
Scoping Opinion for Millbrook Power Project 
 
23 
3.52 
The ecological assessments should take account of potential 
impacts of noise, vibration and air quality (including dust) on 
ecological receptors, and cross reference should be made to 
relevant specialist reports, and to information in other ES topic 
chapters as appropriate.    
3.53 
The SoS highlights the need to consider cumulative and combined 
impacts, and advises this is particularly relevant in assessing the 
impacts on ecological interests.    
3.54 
The SoS notes that the project site and surrounding area includes 
some woodland.  The applicant is referred to the comments of the 
Forestry Commission in Appendix 2 of this Opinion, particularly in 
relation to the potential need to obtain consent for planting and/or 
felling of trees, and to longer-term management of any 
compensatory plantings.      
Water Quality and Resources (see Scoping Report Section 5.6) 
3.55 
The SoS welcomes the intention to provide a Flood Risk 
Assessment (FRA) in consultation with the EA and Lead Local Flood 
Authority.  The FRA should form an appendix to the ES (and cross-
referenced from other application documents as necessary) rather 
than being provided as a standalone application document.   
3.56 
The SoS notes that the applicant assumes at this stage that air 
cooling will be utilised for the proposed development rather than 
water cooling.  If the preferred option has not been determined at 
the time the DCO application is submitted, either both options 
should be assessed in the ES, or the worst case scenario identified 
and assessed.     
3.57 
Paragraph 5.6.10 states that no significant impacts are anticipated 
on key waterbodies and that the majority of watercourses are a 
significant distance from the project site.  However, other 
paragraphs in the Report, and Figures 2 and 3, indicate that part 
of Mill Brook is within the site boundary.  The applicant should 
ensure that the assessment of impacts on water resources 
identifies and considers all watercourses that may be affected, 
including Mill Brook.  The applicant’s attention is drawn to the 
comments made by the Canal and River Trust, contained in 
Appendix 2 of this Opinion, about the Bedford and Milton Keynes 
Waterway Park, and advises that consideration should be given to 
including that proposed development in the cumulative impacts 
assessment. 
3.58 
Paragraph 5.6.10 states that it is not anticipated that water will be 
directly abstracted or discharged from any of the identified water 
sources during any of the phases of the development.  However, 
paragraph 5.6.19 states that discharges from the proposed 
development during operation would be controlled by an 
Environmental Permit, so it is unclear whether discharges to 
Scoping Opinion for Millbrook Power Project 
 
24 
watercourses will occur, and if so, which watercourses would be 
affected.  It should be made clear in the ES whether the proposed 
development includes any discharges to water, and if so, impacts 
should be robustly assessed. If the position is not known at the 
time of the DCO application the worst case scenario should be 
indicated and assessed.   
3.59 
Paragraph 5.6.15 notes that in relation to the electricity and gas 
connections various techniques may be used to cross waterbodies 
where necessary.   All crossing locations should be identified in the 
ES, and all potential techniques identified and assessed.    
3.60 
The applicant’s attention is drawn to the comments of Network 
Rail, contained in Appendix 2 of this Opinion, in relation to the 
potential 
impacts 
of 
surface 
water 
drainage 
on 
railway 
infrastructure and the possible requirement for easements.     
3.61 
Groundwater is the potential pathway for discharge of liquids to 
surface and coastal waters. The SoS considers that the impacts of 
climate change, in terms of increased run-off and rises in sea 
level, should be taken into account in the ES. 
3.62 
This topic chapter makes reference to potential impacts on 
hydrogeology being assessed in the Geology, Ground Conditions 
and Agriculture ES chapter.  These chapters should be cross-
referenced and inter-relationships considered as appropriate. 
3.63 
The applicant is referred to the comments of Public Health England 
in Appendix 2 of this Opinion, particularly in relation to 
establishing the baseline for assessment purposes. 
Geology, Ground Conditions and Agriculture (see Scoping Report 
Section 5.7) 
3.64 
The SoS notes that some filling of Rookery South Pit will take 
place as part of the LLRS.  The ES should fully set out the works 
and the stage that they have reached, and ensure that any 
changes to the land that have taken place are reflected in the 
baseline description for this topic. Potential further changes to the 
land that result from the LLRS following the establishment of the 
baseline may need to be taken into account in the assessment of 
cumulative impacts.   
3.65 
It is stated in paragraph 5.7.6 that there are water bearing strata 
below the project site.  The ES should identify by name and 
provide an assessment of features which may be affected by the 
proposed development such as aquifers. 
3.66 
The SoS welcomes the applicant’s intention to consult the local 
Councils and EA in order to obtain relevant information and refine 
the assessment methodology.   
Scoping Opinion for Millbrook Power Project 
 
25 
3.67 
The study area for this topic is not identified in this section.  It 
should be clearly defined and justified in the ES.      
3.68 
This ES chapter should be cross-referenced with the Water Quality 
and Resources chapter, and inter-relationships assessed as 
appropriate.    
3.69 
The applicant is referred to the comments of Public Health England 
in Appendix 2 of this Opinion, particularly in relation to any 
potential for historical contamination of the project site, and to the 
comments of Central Bedfordshire Council in relation to potential 
cumulative impacts.   
Landscape and Visual Impact (see Scoping Report Section 5.8) 
3.70 
It is stated in this section that the Rookery South Pit is being 
extended, which suggests that the Pit is still being worked, 
although it is understood by the SoS that extraction will take place 
as part of the LLRS.  The SoS recommends that the terminology 
used to describe the LLRS works is used consistently throughout 
the ES in order to provide clarity about the nature of the works at 
the Pit.   
3.71 
The landscape and visual cumulative impacts assessment should 
include not just other proposed large industrial developments in 
the area, but also other types of development that could 
contribute to a cumulative effect.  The SoS recommends that the 
wind turbine in the Marston Vale Millennium Country Park is 
included in the assessment of potential cumulative effects of this 
proposed development, and that consideration should be given to 
the potential for a further turbine at Stewartby landfill site, as 
highlighted in the response of Central Bedfordshire Council             
3.72 
The study area for this topic is not identified in this section, 
although reference is made to residential receptors within 1km of 
the project site.  Bearing in mind that the proposed development 
includes 1- 5 stacks of up to 60m in height, the applicant should 
consider whether a 1km study area is sufficient to identify all 
those residential receptors that may be affected and the likely 
significant visual impacts. The applicant is referred to the 
comments of Luton Borough Council, contained in Appendix 2 of 
this Opinion, in relation to potential views of the stacks.    
3.73 
Reference is made in this section to a Zone of Theoretical Visibility 
(ZTV) plan.  The SoS advises that the ES should describe the ZTV 
model used, and provide information on the area covered, the 
timing of any survey work, and the methodology used. The SoS 
welcomes 
the 
intention 
to 
provide 
photomontages, 
and 
recommends that the locations of viewpoints are agreed with the 
relevant local authorities. 
Scoping Opinion for Millbrook Power Project 
 
26 
3.74 
The SoS notes that the nearest AONB to the project site has been 
scoped out of the assessment on the basis that it is remote from 
the site and visually separated, although the distance between it 
and the site has not been specified.  Fuller information on the 
location of the AONB, and visibility of the development from the 
AONB, taking account of maximum heights of structures proposed, 
should be provided in the ES.   
3.75 
Figure 3 of the Scoping Report shows environmentally sensitive 
receptors within 5km of the project site, and identifies a Country 
Park but does not identify any PROWs.  The ES should include a 
plan that identifies all the landscape and visual receptors within 
the selected study area.    
3.76 
The SoS notes that the landscape and visual assessment of 
potential impacts of the gas and electricity connections will focus 
on the AGIs, substation and SEC(s) (if required) during the 
construction phase.  If these structures are to be removed as part 
of the decommissioning of the proposed development, impacts 
during that phase should also be considered.                      
3.77 
The proposed development includes large structures including 
stacks up to 60m in height on the site.  The SoS recommends that 
careful consideration is given to the form, siting, and use of 
materials and colours in relation to minimising potential adverse 
visual impacts of large structures.  
3.78 
The assessment should include consideration of any visible plumes 
which may be emitted from the stacks and which may additionally 
draw attention to the proposed development. Night time lighting 
effects, including those which may result from the need to provide 
any air navigation warning lights, should also be assessed.    
3.79 
Consideration should be given to whether any proposed landscape 
and visual mitigation measures could affect ecological interests.  
This ES chapter should consider inter-relationships with ecological 
matters as appropriate and cross refer to the ES Ecology chapter.     
Traffic, Transport and Access (see Scoping Report Section 5.9) 
3.80 
The ES should include information relating to transport for all 
phases of the proposed development such as estimates of traffic 
movements and vehicle types, including relating to abnormal 
loads, and access and delivery routes.  The applicant is referred to 
the comments of Luton Borough Council, contained in Appendix 2 
of this Opinion, in relation to traffic movements during the 
operational phase, and to comments made by Network Rail with 
regards to the existing level crossing on Stewartby Green Lane. 
The SoS notes that information will be contained in a Transport 
Assessment, if considered appropriate, accompanied by a draft 
Construction Traffic Management Plan.  The SoS recommends that 
these documents are included in the ES as appendices. 
Scoping Opinion for Millbrook Power Project 
 
27 
3.81 
The removal of waste from the site for all phases of the proposed 
development should be considered and assessed in terms of the 
likely transport routes, the number of journeys and the type of 
vehicles required.  Consideration should be given to including an 
assessment of potential cumulative effects with other projects in 
the area, e.g. the LLRS, that have the potential to generate a high 
number of vehicle movements, with particular regard to HGV 
movements.                 
3.82 
The Scoping Report refers to the roads likely to be used for access 
to the project site as being shown on Figures 1 and 2.  They are 
identified by colour on Figure 2 but not identified in any way on 
Figure 1.  The ES should include a plan on which access routes are 
clearly identifiable.          
3.83 
The SoS welcomes the development of the assessment of 
transport impacts in association with the local highways authorities 
and the Highways Agency (HA). The SoS would expect on-going 
discussions and agreement, where possible, with such bodies. 
3.84 
The SoS notes that opportunities for reducing traffic movements 
will be investigated, and suggests mitigation measures such as 
implementing a travel plan and sourcing materials so as to 
minimise transport could be considered. 
3.85 
The SoS recommends that the ES should take account of the 
location of footpaths and PROWs in the area, including bridleways 
and byways, and clearly set out potential impacts as a result of 
access routes and traffic movements. 
3.86 
The applicant is referred to the comments of the Highways Agency 
in Appendix 2 of this Opinion, in relation to assessment of 
potential access 
routes, abnormal 
loads, and construction 
management and travel plans.   
3.87 
This topic should be cross-referred to the air quality topic chapter 
in the ES, particularly in relation to traffic emissions.       
Cultural Heritage and Archaeology (see Scoping Report Section 
5.10) 
3.88 
The SoS notes that conservation areas are identified by name on 
the list of cultural heritage assets in paragraph 5.10.4, but not 
included in the list in paragraph 5.10.12 of types of assets that will 
be considered in the assessment.  The SoS would expect the 
potential impacts on conservation areas to be identified and 
assessed as part of the EIA.                 
3.89 
The SoS welcomes the applicant’s intention to consult the local 
Councils and English Heritage in relation to the archaeology and 
cultural heritage assessment.       
Scoping Opinion for Millbrook Power Project 
 
28 
3.90 
Paragraph 5.10.2 states that the potential for archaeological 
remains within Rookery South Pit is like to be limited, as a result 
of former works and activities related to the LLRS.  However, the 
SoS notes that the proposed development involves some working 
of previously unworked areas on the project site, and recommends 
that consideration is given to whether further assessment of the 
project site is required, in consultation with relevant Council 
officers. 
3.91 
The SoS expects to see a comprehensive assessment in the ES of 
potential impacts of the proposed development on the setting of 
cultural heritage assets in the area.  The applicant is referred to 
comments made by English Heritage and CBC on this point. 
3.92 
Cross reference from this chapter of the ES should be made to 
other chapters as appropriate, such the Landscape and Visual 
chapter.   
Socio-economics (see Scoping Report Section 5.11) 
3.93 
The SoS recommends that the types of jobs generated should be 
considered in the context of the available workforce in the area.  
This applies equally to the construction and operational stages. 
3.94 
The SoS recommends that the assessment criteria should be 
locationally-specific, and consider the potential significance of the 
impacts of the proposed development within the local and regional 
context. 
3.95 
The SoS draws the applicant’s attention to the comments of 
Ampthill Town Council in Appendix 2 of this Opinion in relation to 
recreational 
facilities 
in 
the 
area, 
and 
recommends 
that 
consideration is given to potential impacts of the proposed 
development on recreational interests.     
Waste (not identified in the Scoping Report) 
3.96 
Although waste has not been identified as a discrete topic there 
are several references to it in the Scoping Report, and the SoS 
notes and welcomes the applicant’s intention to produce a site 
waste management strategy prior to construction which would 
focus on the re-use, recycling and reduction of waste and spoil.   
3.97 
The ES should describe the types of waste generated by the 
project at all stages and describe the method/s of removing it, 
including identifying potential transport routes.  The applicant is 
referred to the comments of Public Health England in Appendix 2 
of this Opinion in relation to the disposal of waste.   
3.98 
Waste should either be addressed in specific ES chapters as 
appropriate, eg Traffic, Transport and Access, or consideration 
given to including a discrete chapter on waste.  
Scoping Opinion for Millbrook Power Project 
 
29 
Electric and Magnetic Fields (not identified in the Scoping Report)       
3.99 
The SoS notes that this proposed development includes a new 
electricity connection, with the configuration and route still to be 
determined.  The applicant is referred to the comments of Public 
Health England in Appendix 2 of this Opinion in relation to 
potential impacts on human health caused by electric and 
magnetic fields.  The SoS recommends that the ES includes an 
assessment of such impacts, and identifies mitigation measures as 
necessary, and suggests that this could be included in a Health 
Impact Assessment if one is undertaken. 
Scoping Opinion for Millbrook Power Project 
 
30 
4.0 OTHER INFORMATION 
4.1 
This section does not form part of the SoS’s Opinion as to the 
information to be provided in the environmental statement. 
However, it does respond to other issues that the SoS has 
identified which may help to inform the preparation of the 
application for the DCO.  
Habitats Regulations Assessment (HRA) 
4.2 
The SoS notes that no information has been provided at this stage 
on the location of European sites but that some may be located 
close to the project.  It is the applicant’s responsibility to provide 
sufficient information to the Competent Authority (CA) to enable 
them to carry out a HRA if required. The applicant should note that 
the CA is the SoS.  
4.3 
The applicant’s attention is drawn to The Infrastructure Planning 
(Applications: Prescribed Forms and Procedure) Regulations 2009 
(as amended) (The APFP Regulations) and the need to include 
information identifying European sites to which the Habitats 
Regulations apply, Ramsar sites or potential SPAs, which may be 
affected by a proposal. The submitted information should be 
sufficient for the competent authority to make an appropriate 
assessment (AA) of the implications for the site if required by 
Regulation 61(1) of the Habitats Regulations. 
4.4 
The report to be submitted under Regulation 5(2)(g) of the APFP 
Regulations with the application must deal with two issues: the 
first is to enable a formal assessment by the CA of whether there 
is a likely significant effect; and the second, should it be required, 
is to enable the carrying out of an AA by the CA.  
4.5 
When considering aspects of the environment likely to be affected 
by the project; including flora, fauna, soil, water, air and the inter-
relationship between these, consideration should be given to the 
designated sites in the vicinity of the project. 
4.6 
Further information with regard to the HRA process is contained 
within Planning Inspectorate’s Advice Note 10 available on the 
National Infrastructure pages on the Planning Portal website.  
Evidence Plans 
4.7 
An evidence plan is a formal mechanism to agree upfront what 
information the applicant needs to supply to the Planning 
Inspectorate as part of a DCO application. An evidence plan will 
help to ensure compliance with the Habitats Regulations. It will be 
particularly relevant to NSIPs where impacts may be complex, 
large volumes of evidence may be needed, or there are a number 
of uncertainties. It will also help applicants meet the requirement 
Scoping Opinion for Millbrook Power Project 
 
31 
to provide sufficient information (as explained in Advice Note 10) 
in their application, so the Examining Authority can recommend to 
the Secretary of State whether or not to accept the application for 
examination and whether an appropriate assessment is required. 
4.8 
Any applicant of a proposed NSIP in England, or England and 
Wales, can request an evidence plan. A request for an evidence 
plan should be made at the start of the pre-application stage (eg, 
after notifying the Planning Inspectorate on an informal basis) by 
contacting the Major Infrastructure and Environment Unit (MIEU) 
in Defra (MIEU@defra.gsi.gov.uk). 
Sites of Special Scientific Interest (SSSIs) 
4.9 
The Secretary of State notes that a number of SSSIs are located 
close to or within the project. Where there may be potential 
impacts on the SSSIs, the SoS has duties under sections 28(G) 
and 28(I) of the Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981 (as amended) 
(the W&C Act). These are set out below for information. 
4.10 
Under s28(G), the SoS has a general duty ‘… to take reasonable 
steps, consistent with the proper exercise of the authority’s 
functions, to further the conservation and enhancement of the 
flora, fauna or geological or physiographical features by reason of 
which the site is of special scientific interest’.   
4.11 
Under 
s28(I), 
the 
SoS 
must 
notify 
the 
relevant 
nature 
conservation body (NCB), JNCC/NE/NRW in this case, before 
authorising the carrying out of operations likely to damage the 
special interest features of a SSSI. Under these circumstances 
28 days must elapse before deciding whether to grant consent, 
and the SoS must take account of any advice received from the 
NCB, including advice on attaching conditions to the consent. The 
NCB will be notified during the examination period.  
4.12 
If applicants consider it likely that notification may be necessary 
under s28(I), they are advised to resolve any issues with the NCB 
before the DCO application is submitted to the SoS. If, following 
assessment by applicants, it is considered that operations affecting 
the SSSI will not lead to damage of the special interest features, 
applicants should make this clear in the ES. The application 
documents submitted in accordance with Regulation 5(2)(l) could 
also provide this information. Applicants should seek to agree with 
the NCB the DCO requirements which will provide protection for 
the SSSI before the DCO application is submitted. 
European Protected Species (EPS) 
4.13 
Applicants should be aware that the decision maker under the 
Planning Act 2008 (PA 2008) has, as the CA, a duty to engage 
with the Habitats Directive. Where a potential risk to an EPS is 
identified, and before making a decision to grant development 
Scoping Opinion for Millbrook Power Project 
 
32 
consent, the CA must, amongst other things, address the 
derogation tests2 in Regulation 53 of the Habitats Regulations. 
Therefore the applicant may wish to provide information which will 
assist the decision maker to meet this duty.  
4.14 
If an applicant has concluded that an EPS licence is required the 
ExA will need to understand whether there is any impediment to 
the licence being granted. The decision to apply for a licence or 
not will rest with the applicant as the person responsible for 
commissioning the proposed activity by taking into account the 
advice of their consultant ecologist. 
4.15 
Applicants are encouraged to consult with NE and, where required, 
to agree appropriate requirements to secure necessary mitigation. 
It would assist the examination if applicants could provide, with 
the application documents, confirmation from NE whether any 
issues have been identified which would prevent the EPS licence 
being granted. 
4.16 
Generally, NE are unable to grant an EPS licence in respect of any 
development until all the necessary consents required have been 
secured in order to proceed. For NSIPs, NE will assess a draft 
licence application in order to ensure that all the relevant issues 
have been addressed. Within 30 working days of receipt, NE will 
either issue ‘a letter of no impediment’ stating that it is satisfied, 
insofar as it can make a judgement, that the proposals presented 
comply with the regulations or will issue a letter outlining why NE 
consider the proposals do not meet licensing requirements and 
what further information is required before a ‘letter of no 
impediment’ can be issued.  The applicant is responsible for 
ensure draft licence applications are satisfactory for the purposes 
of informing formal pre-application assessment by NE.   
4.17 
Ecological conditions on the site may change over time. It will be 
the applicant’s responsibility to ensure information is satisfactory 
for the purposes of informing the assessment of no detriment to 
the maintenance of favourable conservation status (FCS) of the 
population of EPS affected by the proposals3. Applicants are 
advised that current conservation status of populations may or 
may not be favourable. Demonstration of no detriment to 
favourable 
populations may require 
further survey and/or 
submission 
of 
revised 
short 
or 
long 
term 
mitigation 
or 
compensation proposals. In England the focus concerns the 
provision of up to date survey information which is then made 
available to NE (along with any resulting amendments to the draft 
                                       
2 Key case law re need to consider Article 16 of the Habitats Directive: Woolley vs 
East Cheshire County Council 2009 and Morge v Hampshire County Council 2010.  
3 Key case law in respect of the application of the FCS test at a site level: Hafod 
Quarry Land Tribunal (Mersey Waste (Holdings) Limited v Wrexham County 
Borough Council) 2012, and Court of Appeal 2012. 
 
Scoping Opinion for Millbrook Power Project 
 
33 
licence application). This approach will help to ensure no delay in 
issuing the licence should the DCO application be successful. 
Applicants with projects in England or English waters can find 
further information on Natural England’s protected species 
licensing procedures in relation to NSIPs by clicking on the 
following link:  
http://www.naturalengland.org.uk/Images/wml-g36_tcm6-
28566.pdf 
4.18 
In England or English Waters, assistance may be obtained from 
the Consents Service Unit.  The Unit works with applicants to 
coordinate key non-planning consents associated with nationally 
significant infrastructure projects. The Unit’s remit includes EPS 
licences. The service is free of charge and entirely voluntary. 
Further information is available from the following link:  
http://infrastructure.planningportal.gov.uk/legislation-and-
advice/consents-service-unit/  
Health Impact Assessment  
4.19 
The SoS considers that it is a matter for the applicant to decide 
whether or not to submit a stand-alone Health Impact Assessment 
(HIA). However, the applicant should have regard to the responses 
received from the relevant consultees regarding health, and in 
particular to the comments from the Health and Safety Executive, 
Public Health England, and National Grid in relation to electric and 
magnetic fields and electrical and gas safety issues (see Appendix 
2). 
4.20 
The methodology for the HIA, if prepared, should be agreed with 
the relevant statutory consultees and take into account mitigation 
measures for acute risks. 
Other regulatory regimes 
4.21 
The SoS recommends that the applicant should state clearly what 
regulatory areas are addressed in the ES and that the applicant 
should ensure that all relevant authorisations, licences, permits 
and consents that are necessary to enable operations to proceed 
are described in the ES. Also it should be clear that any likely 
significant effects of the project which may be regulated by other 
statutory regimes have been properly taken into account in the 
ES. 
4.22 
It will not necessarily follow that the granting of consent under one 
regime will ensure consent under another regime. For those 
consents not capable of being included in an application for 
consent under the PA 2008, the SoS will require a level of 
assurance or comfort from the relevant regulatory authorities that 
the proposal is acceptable and likely to be approved, before they 
Scoping Opinion for Millbrook Power Project 
 
34 
make a recommendation or decision on an application. The 
applicant is encouraged to make early contact with other 
regulators. Information from the applicant about progress in 
obtaining other permits, licences or consents, including any 
confirmation that there is no obvious reason why these will not 
subsequently be granted, will be helpful in supporting an 
application for development consent to the SoS. 
Transboundary Impacts  
4.23 
The SoS has noted that the applicant has not indicated whether 
the project is likely to have significant impacts on another 
European Economic Area (EEA) State.  
4.24 
Regulation 24 of the EIA Regulations, which inter alia require the 
SoS to publicise a DCO application if the SoS is of the view that 
the proposal is likely to have significant effects on the environment 
of another EEA state and where relevant to consult with the EEA 
state affected. The SoS considers that where Regulation 24 
applies, this is likely to have implications for the examination of a 
DCO application.  
4.25 
The SoS recommends that the ES should identify whether the 
project has the potential for significant transboundary impacts and 
if so, what these are and which EEA States would be affected. 
Scoping Opinion for Millbrook Power Project 
 
 
Scoping Opinion for Millbrook Power Project 
 
 
APPENDIX 1 
List of Consultees 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scoping Opinion for Millbrook Power Project 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix 1 
 
APPENDIX 1 
BODIES FORMALLY CONSULTED DURING THE SCOPING 
EXERCISE 
 
 
CONSULTEE 
 
 
ORGANISATION 
SCHEDULE 1  
The Health and Safety Executive 
Health and Safety Executive 
The National Health Service  
Commissioning Board 
NHS England 
The relevant clinical commissioning 
group 
Bedfordshire Clinical 
Commissioning Group 
Natural England 
Natural England 
The Historic Buildings and Monuments 
Commission for England 
English Heritage 
English Heritage - East of 
England 
The Relevant Fire and Rescue Authority 
Bedfordshire Fire and Rescue 
Service 
The Relevant Police and Crime 
Commissioner 
Office of the Police and 
Crime Commissioner for 
Bedfordshire 
The Relevant Parish Council(s) or 
Relevant Community Council 
Stewartby Parish Council 
Houghton Conquest Parish 
Council 
Ampthill Town Council 
Millbrook Parish Meeting 
Marston Moreteyne Parish 
Council 
 
 
 
Appendix 1 
 
The Environment Agency 
The Environment Agency 
The Environment Agency - 
Central Area Office 
The relevant AONB Conservation Boards 
Chilterns Conservation Board 
The Civil Aviation Authority 
Civil Aviation Authority 
The Highways Agency 
The Highways Agency - East 
The Relevant Highways Authority 
Bedford Borough Council 
Central Bedfordshire  Council 
The Coal Authority 
The Coal Authority 
The Canal and River Trust 
The Canal and River Trust 
Public Health England, an executive 
agency to the Department of Health 
Public Health England 
The Crown Estate Commissioners 
The Crown Estate 
The Forestry Commission 
Forestry Commission 
The Secretary of State for Defence 
Ministry of Defence 
 
RELEVANT STATUTORY UNDERTAKERS  
Health Bodies (s.16 of the Acquistition of Land Act (ALA) 1981) 
The National Health Service  
Commissioning Board  (England 
only) 
NHS England 
The relevant clinical commissioning 
group (England only) 
Bedfordshire Clinical 
Commissioning Group 
Local Area Team (England only) 
Hertfordshire and the South 
Midlands Area Team 
NHS Trust (England only) 
Bedford Hospital NHS Trust 
South Essex Partnership 
University NHS Foundation Trust 
 
 
 
Appendix 1 
 
Ambulance Trusts 
East of England Ambulance 
Service 
Relevant Statutory Undertakers (s.8 ALA 1981) 
Railway 
Network Rail Infrastructure Ltd 
Highways Agency Historical 
Railways Estate 
Water Transport 
The Canal and River Trust 
Canal Or Inland Navigation 
Authorities 
Bedford & Milton Keynes 
Waterway Trust 
Civil Aviation Authority 
Civil Aviation Authority 
Licence Holder (Chapter 1 Of Part 
1 Of Transport Act 2000) 
NATS En-Route (NERL) 
Safeguarding 
Universal Service Provider 
Royal Mail Group 
Relevant Environment Agency 
Environment Agency 
Water and Sewage Undertakers 
Anglian Water 
Public Gas Transporter 
Energetics Gas Limited 
ES Pipelines Ltd 
ESP Connections Ltd 
ESP Networks Ltd 
ESP Pipelines Ltd 
Fulcrum Pipelines Limited 
GTC Pipelines Limited 
Independent Pipelines Limited 
LNG Portable Pipeline Services 
Limited 
National Grid Gas Plc 
National Grid Plc 
 
 
 
Appendix 1 
 
Quadrant Pipelines Limited 
SSE Pipelines Ltd 
Scotland Gas Networks Plc 
Southern Gas Networks Plc 
Wales and West Utilities Ltd 
Electricity Distributors With CPO 
Powers 
Energetics Electricity Limited 
ESP Electricity Limited 
Independent Power Networks 
Limited 
The Electricity Network Company 
Limited 
Eastern Power Networks Plc 
UK Power Networks Limited 
Electricity Transmitters With CPO 
Powers 
 
National Grid Electricity 
Transmission Plc 
National Grid Plc 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix 1 
 
LOCAL AUTHORITIES (SECTION 43) 
Local Authority 
Bedford Borough Council 
Central Bedfordshire 
Council 
Huntingdonshire District 
Council 
Cambridgeshire County 
Council 
South Cambridgeshire 
District Council 
North Hertfordshire District 
Council 
Luton Borough Council 
Hertfordshire County 
Council 
St Albans City & District 
Council 
Dacorum Borough Council 
Buckinghamshire County 
Council 
Aylesbury Vale District 
Council 
Milton Keynes Council 
Wellingborough Borough 
Council 
Northamptonshire County 
Council 
East Northamptonshire 
Council 
 
 
 
Appendix 2 
APPENDIX 2 
Respondents to Consultation and Copies 
of Replies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix 2 
 
 
 
Appendix 2 
APPENDIX 2 
BODIES WHO REPLIED BY THE STATUTORY DEADLINE 
Ampthill Town Council 
Bedford Borough Council 
Canal and River Trust 
Central Bedfordshire Council 
Civil Aviation Authority 
Energetics UK 
English Heritage 
Environment Agency 
ES Pipelines Limited 
Forestry Commission 
Fulcrum Pipelines Limited 
GTC Pipelines Limited (on behalf of bodies * identified below) 
Health and Safety Executive 
Highways Agency 
Independent Pipelines Limited * 
Independent Power Networks Limited * 
Luton Borough Council 
National Grid 
NATS 
Natural England 
Network Rail 
North Hertfordshire District Council 
Public Health England 
Quadrant Pipelines Limited * 
The Chilterns Conservation Board 
The Coal Authority 
The Electricity Network Company Limited * 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AMPTHILL TOWN COUNCIL 
 
Tel:  01525 404355  
Fax: 01525 406957 
 
Email: council@ampthilltowncouncil.org.uk 
Website: www.ampthilltowncouncil.org.uk 
66 Dunstable Street 
       Ampthill 
       Bedford 
       MK45  2JS 
 
Sent by email: environmentalservices@infrastructure.gsi.gov.uk 
 
17th July 2014   
 
Alison L Down 
EIA & Land Rights Adviser 
On behalf of the Secretary of State 
 
Dear Ms Down 
 
Application by Millbrook Power Ltd for an Order Granting Development Consent for the 
Millbrook Power Project 
 
Ampthill Town Council as a consultation body has the following comments to make in regard to the 
Millbrook Power Project: 
 
Cooper’s Hill (SSSI) 
Cooper’s Hill is a nature reserve owned by Ampthill Town Council and managed by the Wildlife Trust. 
It is a site of special scientific interest and the best remaining example in Bedfordshire of the once more 
extensive heathland on the Greensand ridge. Where Ampthill clay reaches the surface on the edge of the 
site, springs occur, supporting rich marsh plant communities. Within this small area are locally 
uncommon plant species (this is the only location for marsh violets in Bedfordshire) and a type of 
habitat very rare in the county. The adverse effect caused by emissions on Cooper’s Hill is of concern to 
us. Sulphur di-oxide and Nitrogen Dioxide, both contributing to acid rain and hampering the growth of 
plants will have an adverse impact. There is also a health risk from dioxins via the food chain and this 
too is of concern to us, being a farming area. 
 
We would need reassurance of how these emissions are to be monitored and procedures in the event of 
the monitoring system failing. 
 
Visual Quality 
 
Sheer size of the building will dominate the skyline – most of which will be visible above the edge 
of Rookery Pit.  
 
The size of the plant will have a major impact on the visual quality of the landscape and will 
adversely impair the views from the Vale to the surrounding Greensand Ridge and the panoramic 
views from the ridge, especially those seen from Ampthill Great Park a Grade II listed historic park 
and Houghton House ruins, a Grade I English Heritage site. 
 
The building and four chimneys will be seen very clearly from Katherine’s Cross, which is 
surrounded by a Scheduled Ancient Monument area in Ampthill Park and will not blend into the 
landscape.  
 
 
2 
 
Local policy seeks to protect, conserve and enhance the County’s scheduled ancient monuments, 
conservation areas, parks and gardens and their settings. The proposed EFW is contrary to these 
policies. 
 
The facility could attract additional industrial activity which would further alter the rural character 
of the Vale. 
Biodiversity and Geological Conservation 
 
The surrounding villages are all within a rural landscape populated by residents who wish to 
preserve their rural way of life. 
 
To situate the facility within Rookery Pit and in close proximity to the Marston Vale Millennium 
Country Park – a primary purpose of which is to re-forest the Marston Vale – would be a retrograde 
step ecologically and lead to significant habitat loss and ultimately the industrialisation of Rookery 
Pit. 
Socio-Economic 
 
We are not convinced that the proposed facility will enhance the local economy as only 15 full time 
jobs have been identified. 
 
There will be a detrimental effect on existing property prices which in turn will depress economic 
activity and undermine the ambition of local communities to develop as tourist destinations. 
Ampthill Park 
 
Ampthill Town Council has just received a grant of £606,800 from the Heritage Lottery Fund (HLF) 
and the Big Lottery Fund for Ampthill Great Park. The project aims to further investigate, restore and 
enhance the Park’s landscape, historic and heritage features, whilst ensuring it meets the needs of its 
current and future visitors. 
Ampthill Great Park has a significant heritage and serves the people of the town and surrounding areas 
with a place for recreation and enjoyment. The grant will enable us to ensure that the park’s landscape 
is enhanced and preserved for the pleasure of future generations. This grant is part of a wider 
investment of £34.5million of Lottery money to 13 parks across the UK. 
 
This application by Millbrook Power Ltd for a power generation plant will have a detrimental effect on 
the restoration work we are carrying out in the Park on this major project. 
 
Conclusion 
The whole of the Vale does not currently contain heavy industry and is a peaceful area of the 
countryside enjoyed by local people and visitors alike for its stunning views. The Forest of Marston 
Vale is one of 12 Community Forests throughout England working to improve the countryside around 
our towns and cities.  
Ampthill Town Council are of the opinion that the Secretary of State should conclude that this proposal 
is the wrong solution to dealing with energy in the proposed catchment area and in the wrong location. 
 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
 
Donna J Searle (Miss) 
Deputy Town Clerk 
 
Direct Dial: 
 
From: Michael Robinson [mailto:Michael.Robinson@bedford.gov.uk]  
Sent: 18 July 2014 15:42 
To: Environmental Services 
Cc: Iain Blackley; Paul Rowland (Planning) 
Subject: Your ref EN010068 Application by Millbrook Power Ltd for an Order Granting Development 
Consent for the Millbrook Power Project 
 
Bedford BC - OFFICIAL-Unsecure 
 
Dear Sirs, 
 
Further to your letter dated 20th June 2014 concerning the above proposal Bedford Borough Council 
would like to comment that at this stage the scoping for the Environmental Statement appears 
reasonable but that the Bedford Borough Council will wish to be informed by the applicant’s 
consultants of progress towards the final version of the ES, and will be happy to make available 
information that the council may have to assist in its comprehensive preparation before the 
submission of the planning application. 
 
Initial comments from the council’s Environmental Health Officer are as follows: - 
 
 
“Air Quality 
 
I have no objection to the proposals for the air quality assessment. 
 
I would advise that the assessment makes use of the guidance held within the Environmental 
Protection UK guidance, Development Control: Planning for Air Quality. 
 
Noise 
 
With regards to the proposed noise assessment, I would like to emphasise that the noise from the 
operation of the plant should be assessed in line with BS4142.  
 
BS8233 and the WHO guidance relate to anonymous noise sources, this is not an anonymous noise 
source and as such, in line with the guidance within BS8233, the assessment should be in line with 
BS4142. 
 
I do not believe that the draft IEMA/IOA guidance should be used for determining significance. The 
guidance has been published in a number of draft forms and as such only gives possible examples of 
significance criteria as part of the consultation, rather than any firm criteria. 
 
I am surprised that the noise contribution arising from electrical connections has been scoped out at 
this stage. Given the low frequency and highly tonal nature of noise associated with this, and the 
potential for a significant impact, even at low decibel levels, I would expect the noise to be assessed.  
 
The proposed construction and decommissioning, noise and vibration assessment, should not limit 
itself to NSR’s within 100m of construction activities, but should look at all NSR’s that will be affected 
by the activities.  
 
With regards to possible mitigation, the development is located very near to South Pillinge farm. 
Alternative locations within the pit should be considered.” 
 
I hope that these preliminary comments will assist in the preparation of the ES and I repeat the offer 
that the council will wish to assist and participate as far as it can in achieving a high quality 
Environmental Statement in conjunction with Central Bedfordshire Council within whose district the 
bulk of the development is located. 
 
With kind regards, 
 
 
 
 
Michael Robinson 
Team Leader Major Applications  
Environment & Sustainable Communities  
Bedford Borough Council 
4th Floor, Borough Hall, Cauldwell Street, Bedford, MK42 9AP 
01234 718538 (47538) 
Web www.bedford.gov.uk  
 
Bedford Borough Council – Working with our partners to make the Borough a better place to live, 
work and visit. For up-to-date information on the Council follow us on Twitter: @bedfordtweets  
 
 
From the 1st April 2014 Bedford Borough Council introduced a new planning advice service. 
From this date all general planning information will be available on our website 
www.bedford.gov.uk/preapp However, if your enquiry is site specific and/or the information is 
not available online, you will need to complete a request for advice on our new enquiry form 
and pay the appropriate fee. Full information of this new service can be found on our website 
as shown above.  
 
‘Bedford Borough Council - Working with our partners to make the borough a better place to live, work 
and visit.’ 
 
 
 
Information security classification of this email: OFFICIAL-Unsecure 
  
EMAIL CLASSIFICATION DEFINED: 
*** OFFICIAL-UNSECURE:  This message and any attached file do not contain personal or sensitive 
information  
**** OFFICIAL-SECURE: Either this message or any attached file contains either personal or 
commercially sensitive information that requires it to be sent encrypted. 
  
All email traffic may be subject to recording and/or monitoring in accordance with relevant 
legislation. This email and any attached file are the property of Bedford Borough Council. Any 
opinions expressed in this mail do not necessarily reflect the opinions of Bedford Borough Council.  
† Bedford Borough Council is continuously working towards the requirements of the Public Sector 
Network and Data Protection Act 
  
“Confidentiality: The information contained in this e-mail and any attachment may be 
confidential and may contain legally privileged information. It is intended only for the use of 
the named recipient. If you are not the named recipient, please notify us immediately and 
delete it from your system. In such an event, you should not disclose the contents of this e-
mail to any other person, or print it.” 
 
This email was scanned by the Government Secure Intranet anti-virus service supplied by 
Vodafone in partnership with Symantec. (CCTM Certificate Number 2009/09/0052.) In case 
of problems, please call your organisations IT Helpdesk. 
Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for 
legal purposes. 
 
  
From: Jane Hennell [mailto:Jane.Hennell@canalrivertrust.org.uk]  
Sent: 18 July 2014 12:28 
To: Environmental Services 
Cc: info@millbrookpower.co.uk 
Subject: Millbrook Power ltd. Scoping  
 
Thank you for consulting the Canal & River Trust with regard to EIA scoping for the DCO for 
the proposed Millbrook Power Development.  
  
The Canal & River Trust (the Trust) is the guardian of 2,000 miles of historic waterways 
across England and Wales.  We are among the largest charities in the UK, maintaining the 
nation’s third largest collection of listed structures, as well as museums, archives, 
navigations and hundreds of important wildlife sites.  Following the transfer of functions from 
British Waterways to the Trust in 2012, we are a statutory consultee in the development 
management process and are consulted on both local and neighbourhood plans as well as 
NSIPS. 
  
The Trust do not own or maintain any canals in the area of the development site but we are 
a member of in the Bedford Milton Keynes Waterway Trust Partnership who seek to create a 
new stretch of waterway. The B&MK Waterway Trust was established in 1995 to promote 
the development of a broad waterway which will link the Grand Union Canal in Milton 
Keynes to the river Great Ouse in Bedford through a series of waterway parks. It will include 
pathways and green space designed to meet the needs of walkers, cyclists, fishermen, and 
those who simply like to stand and stare. 
  
We fully support the work of the Bedford to Milton Keynes Waterway Trust who, with a range 
of other partners including Local Authorities and the Environment Agency, are seeking to 
promote a Waterway Park linking the River Ouse in Bedford with the Grand Union Canal in 
Milton Keynes. The proposal is strongly supported locally and the route of the proposed 
Waterway Park is safeguarded in the relevant Local Plans. 
  
The Canal & River Trust note your that the proposed site is some distance from the 
safeguarded route of the Waterway Park, but because of its strategic nature Millbrook Power 
is likely to have wider implications for the Marston Vale.  We wish to ensure that you are 
aware of the project and its safeguarded route to ensure that the project, or subsequent 
supporting work such as pipe lines, do not have an adverse impact on the proposal.    
  
The Trust will in due course register our interest but if you feel it may be beneficial to meet at 
any time please do not hesitate to contact me. I understand that the Bedford & Milton 
Keynes Trust will also contact you and will wish to discuss possible opportunities for joint 
initiatives. If we are able to assist with this in any way we would welcome the opportunity to 
become involved. 
  
Please ensure that I am listed as your contact within the Canal & River Trust, using the 
details below, rather than sending documents to our Head Office Milton Keynes.  
  
Jane Hennell 
Area Planner South 
  
The Canal & River Trust 
The Dock Office 
Commercial Road 
Gloucester 
GL1 2EB 
  
Tel. 07747 897793 
  
  
  
 
The Canal & River Trust is a new charity entrusted with the care of 2,000 miles of waterways 
in England and Wales. Get involved, join us - Visit / Donate / Volunteer at 
www.canalrivertrust.org.uk 
Canal & River Trust is a charitable company limited by guarantee registered in England & 
Wales with company number 7807276 and charity number 1146792. Registered office 
address First Floor North, Station House, 500 Elder Gate, Milton Keynes MK9 1BB.  
Elusen newydd yw Glandŵr Cymru sy’n gofalu am 2,000 o filltiroedd o ddyfrffyrdd yng 
Nghymru a Lloegr. Cymerwch ran, ymunwch â ni - Ewch i Rhoddion a Gwirfoddoli yn 
www.glandwrcymru.org.uk  
Mae Glandŵr Cymru yn gwmni cyfyngedig drwy warant a gofrestrwyd yng Nghymru a 
Lloegr gyda rhif cwmni 7807276 a rhif elusen gofrestredig 1146792. Swyddfa gofrestredig: 
First Floor North, Station House, 500 Elder Gate, Milton Keynes MK9 1BB.  
 
This email was scanned by the Government Secure Intranet anti-virus service supplied by 
Vodafone in partnership with Symantec. (CCTM Certificate Number 2009/09/0052.) In case 
of problems, please call your organisations IT Helpdesk. 
Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for 
legal purposes. 
********************************************************************** 
Correspondents should note that all communications to Department for Communities and Local Government may be automatically logged, 
monitored and/or recorded for lawful purposes. 
********************************************************************** 
  
 
The Planning Inspectorate
3/20 Eagle Wing
Temple Quay House
2 The Square
Bristol
BS1 6PN
Contact
Direct Dial
Email
Your Ref
Date
Lisa Newlands
0300 300 4185
planning@centralbedfordshire.gov.uk
15 July 2014
Dear Sir/Madam,
Application No:
CB/14/02453/OAC
Location:
The Rookery Pit (south), Near Stewartby, Bedfordshire
Proposal:
Other Authority Consultation: EIA Scoping Report  for The Millbrook
Power Project (Gas Power Station)
I refer to your letter dated 20th June 2014 and registered on that date requesting comments
on the Scoping Opinion for the Millbrook Power Project at Rookery Pit (South).
The Local Planning Authority has assessed the submitted Scoping report and makes the
following comments with regard to the content of the proposed Environmental Statement.
Submitted Scoping Report.
The Local Planning Authority generally agrees with the content of the submitted Scoping
report but considers that internal consultees have identified further scope that should be
included within the Environmental Assessment. These are listed below:
CBC Ecological Officer
The Council's Ecologist has assessed the Scoping Report submitted and is satisfied that the
suite of surveys proposed and the assumed baseline will adequately inform the EIA.
CBC Archaeological Officer
The bulk of the proposed development is located within Rookery Pit (HER 6681),one of the
clay pits that provided the raw material for Stewartby Brickworks during the 20th century. In
the wider project site area there are a number of known archaeological sites and features.
On the south western edge of the existing clay pit is an Iron Age and Roman settlement
(HER 19806) and to the south of that is a ring ditch known from aerial photography(HER
16566), which on morphological grounds is likely to be the remains of a Bronze Age funerary
monument. There are also other as yet uncharacterised cropmark features within this area
(HER 4469 and HER 9077), some of these may represent land boundaries of unknown date
but frequently such cropmarks have been shown to belong to later prehistoric and Roman
settlements. On the eastern boundary of the site is a scatter of medieval pottery has been
found possibly indicating occupation of that period (HER 15892). These are heritage assets
with archaeological interest as defined by the National Planning Policy Framework (NPPF).
Archaeological survey and research in the wider Marston Vale has been limited. However,
recent investigations in advance of housing development at Stewartby to the north, a road
scheme on the northern edge of the Marston Vale and along the route of various pipelines to
the south and east have started to identify a range of previously unidentified sites within the
Vale dating from the prehistoric to medieval periods. These sites are often difficult to detect
remotely and can only be identified through intrusive investigation and suggest that the Vale
contained a much more extensive settlement pattern than had previously been thought.
Therefore, the wider project area has the potential to contain so far unidentified
archaeological sites and features dating from the prehistoric period.
The proposed development site is also located within the setting of a number of Scheduled
Monuments including amongst others Houghton House (HER 729 and SM 1013522) and
Ampthill Castle (HER 810 and SM 10009630) in Greensand Ridge to the south, Thrupp End
medieval settlement and moated sites (HER 31 and SM 1010364) to the west, The Rectory
Moated site HER 3236 and SM 1009588), Houghton Conquest to the east and Ampthill Park
(HER 1369 and RPG 10000378). Under the terms of the NPPF these are designated
heritage assets of the highest importance. Development within the setting of these
designated heritage assets will have an impact on their significance.
The submitted Scoping Report rightly identifies cultural heritage and archaeology as one of
the topic areas to be covered in the Environmental Impact Assessment. It notes that main
development is in Rookery Pit and that excavation of the clay will have reduced its potential
to contain archaeological remains (5.10.2). This is correct, however, the clay pit itself is of
considerable industrial archaeological importance in its association with Stewartby
Brickworks. The remains of the brick making industry in the Marston Vale are of national and
regional importance. The EIA should deal with the impact of the proposal on the remains of
the Rookery Pit clay pit. It should also be noted that the permitted southern extension of the
clay pit, proposed for extraction in this scheme, contains the remains of an Iron Age and
Roman settlement (HER 19806). The potential of the gas and electrical connections outside
Rookery Pit to impact on buried archaeological remains is acknowledged. The potential of
the development to affect the setting of designated heritage assets is identified and, from an
archaeological perspective, the list of sites is comprehensive.
It is proposed that the baseline information for the EIA should be collected by means of a
desk-based assessment, using the relevant Institute for Archaeologists' standards and
guidance document as the basis for the assessment. This is an appropriate standard for a
desk-based assessment. It is stated that no intrusive investigation is proposed at this stage
(5.10.16). In the gas and electrical connection opportunity area any underground
connections will impact on archaeological remains and affect the significance of the heritage
assets with archaeological interest. Given the potential for this area to contain as yet
unidentified archaeological remains the CBC Archaeological Officer considers that the
collection of baseline information on archaeology for the gas and electrical connections
should include an archaeological field evaluation comprising geophysical survey and trial
trenching of the selected connection routes. The proposals for collecting baseline information
on the setting of designated heritage assets seem reasonable. The Environmental Statement
should contain sufficient visual information to be able to assess the impact on the setting of
these assets including from the monuments and into them from a variety of locations,
including view sites on the Greensand Ridge from the northern edge of the Marston Vale.
The EIA should also deal with the cumulative impact of the various other developments in
the surrounding area in relation to this proposal on archaeology and the historic environment.
Mitigation of the impact of the proposed development on archaeology and the historic
environment is dealt with in paragraphs 5.10.17 and 5.10.18. Although there are no specific
mitigation proposals although number of options including the preservation of any important
archaeological remains in situ, the investigation of others in advance of development and the
use of screen planting to minimise the impact on the setting of designated assets. Though it
is not possible to establish what an appropriate mitigation strategy might be until the baseline
information has been established, this suite of options should provide a reasonable solution.
CBC Highways Officer - Development Control
In a highway context this proposal has the potential for major impact on the surrounding
highway network. Nevertheless the CBC Highways Officer notes from the information
supplied that the highway issues will be considered and addressed within the Transport
Assessment and Travel Plan which will form part of any future submission. This is
considered acceptable.
CBC Landscape Officer
The CBC Landscape Officer has considered the information submitted within the Scoping
Report and states in terms of the assessment of cumulative impact - although mentioned in
the landscape section, the wind turbine at the Millenium Country Park is not listed as one of
the developments to be part of this study. This should be included. In addition to the turbines
at Brogborough, there is the potential for a further turbine at Stewartby landfill site, within
Bedfordshire Borough Council area.
In terms of viewpoints it would be helpful to have a viewpoint from the crest of Ampthill Hill as
this provides an oblique viewpoint over the Vale.
The EIA would need to provide details of the landscape mitigation, including any proposed
off site planting. (This has not been referred to within the report but should be fully
considered as a mitigation method). Details of the acoustic screen for the above ground
installations would be required. The colour palette would also be an important factor in terms
of mitigation. Depending on the building structure, mitigation should also include techniques
such as green roofs.
The Design and Access Statement would need to clarify the site selection process in terms
of the proposal's position within Rookery Pit . The relationship with the Covanta RRF,
including the strategic landscape planting and features such as waterbodies, would also
require clarification.
CBC Minerals and Waste
The CBC Minerals and Waste Officer has made the following comments on the Scoping
Report submitted.
Section 2.7 of the EIA Scoping report deals with Local Planning Policy. This section makes
no mention of the Minerals and Waste Local Plan: Strategic sites and Policies LDD which
was adopted by Bedford borough, Central Bedfordshire and Luton borough councils in
January 2014. It is part of the development plan for this authority. In the MWLP:SSP
Rookery South is identified in Waste Strategic Policy WSP2 as one of four sites for waste
recovery uses. It is also additionally identified as a site for the landfilling of non-hazardous
waste. These strategic sites are locations where large scale recovery operations should take
place and are defined as having a throughput of more than 75,000 tonnes per annum. The
Strategic Site at Rookery south is identified on a plan on page 80 and on table 17 on pages
81-82 there is information set out about this site.
A copy of the MWLP:SSP can be found on the CBC website.
Rookery Pit south is already the location of the proposed Resource Recovery Facility
(Covanta Energy Limited) for which a Development Consent Order was issued in February
2013. Whilst no progress has been made in discharging any pre-commencement conditions
as the American parent company decided to withdraw from the UK shortly after the DCO was
issued. However the consent runs for 5 years and so there is the potential for it to be
implemented up to February 2018. The site of the Resource Recovery Facility is immediately
to the north of that of the proposed power station in rookery Pit south and they would share
the access road into the pit from Green Lane.
A screening opinion was undertaken on behalf of both CBC and BBC in 2013 which related
to its use for both waste recovery and landfill purposes.
It is noted that paragraph 4.3.2 states that the cumulative impact will take into account the
Covanta RRS, the low level restoration scheme for the Rookery pits and the waste
management operations at Rookery pit south. Certainly the cumulative impact in terms of
traffic could be significant and landscape and ecology too. However, it is not possible to
comment further on this at this stage.
The CBC Minerals and Waste Officer is unclear whether the power station proposal might
adversely impact on the use of the remainder of the pit for waste recovery purposes or for
non hazardous waste landfill particularly with regard to the Electrical and Gas connection
areas covering part of the pit.
CBC Public Protection
The CBC Public Protection Officer has assessed the Scoping report submitted and has
made the following comments on the content.
�
Operational noise from fixed plant should be assessed using BS4142. I don't agree with
     the implication that BS8233 should be used as this standard concerns anonymous noise
     sources.
�
Draft guidance should not be used (e.g. 'Guidelines on Noise Impact Assessment')
�
Noise from the Electrical Connection should be included in any noise assessment and
     should not be scoped out prior ro undertaking any baseline noise monitoring or not  
     knowing what equipment will be selected.
�
Careful consideration should be given to design, layout, orientation and site location in
mitigating/managing any noise sources. One form of mitigation which was not mentioned
in the Scoping report is that of distance from receptors. The site chosen for the power
station is only 90m from South Pillinge Farm even though there appears to be plenty of
scope to resite the building at a more distant location.
The information given in terms of Air Quality look satisfactory.
CBC Conservation Officer
Section 5.10 sets out how the effects on cultural heritage and archaeological assets will be
carried out.
5.10.12 states how the study is to be set out when considering cultural heritage assets and
the method is considered acceptable in principle.
The project site boundary abuts a collection of cultural heritage sites which have been
marked on Figure 3.
Initial concerns will be the visual impact the proposed “stacks” will have on the surrounding
areas. The proximity to the listed chimney stacks of the closed Stewartby Brickworks (LBC)
will need consideration. The industrial heritage of the area has been recognised by the
listing of these stacks and any impact on this will need to be considered.
CBC Sustainable Growth Officer
The climate change risk has been widely recognised and the scooping document itself
acknowledges this by listing the UK Climate Change Risk Assessment 2012 as one of the
relevant planning and guidance documents. The EIA assessment should therefore cover
synergistic and cumulative impacts of the Millbrook Power Station project and climate
change on natural environment, particularly on water quality, water resources, ecology and
air quality.
Additional Case Officer Notes
In terms of the legislative and Planning Policy context this should include the emerging
Development Strategy for Central Bedfordshire that is currently out to public consultation.
This will be given greater material weight as the process continues. This is noted within the
Scoping Report in Section 2.
The Minerals and Waste Local Plan: Strategic sites and Policies LDD which was adopted by
Bedford Borough, Central Bedfordshire and Luton Borough Councils in January 2014 should
be fully considered and referenced within the EIA, and they should form part of the
Regulatory and Policy Background.
Yours faithfully,
Lisa Newlands
Principal Planning Officer
  
1
Case Administration
From:
Smailes Baggy <Baggy.Smailes@caa.co.uk>
Sent:
23 June 2014 09:38
To:
Environmental Services
Subject:
FW: Millbrook Power Project Scoping Request
Attachments:
140620_EN010068_Millbrook Power Project.pdf
Dear Sirs, 
 
Proposed Millbrook Power Project – Scoping Comment 
 
Thank you for The Planning Inspectorate’s recent correspondence relating to the subject 
development.  The Inspectorate sought related Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) scoping comment; I 
trust the following is useful. 
 
I note from the Scoping Report (SR) that the tallest associated structures are expected to be 
between 1 and 5 chimney stacks that would each have a height of up to 60metres (m).  On that 
basis I belief the following (potential) issues are worthy of consideration: 
 Aerodromes.  In respect of any potential aerodrome related issue, I should highlight the 
need to check any safeguarding maps lodged with relevant planning authorities to identify 
any aerodrome specific safeguarding issues.  To that effect, I note the close proximity of 
Cranfield Airport to the development site.  Noting that aerodrome safeguarding 
responsibility rests in all cases with the relevant aerodrome operator / licensee, not the 
CAA, it is important that the related viewpoints of any relevant aerodrome license holders / 
operators is established and any concerns expressed appropriately mitigated. 
 Aviation Warning Lighting:   
o In the UK, the need for aviation obstruction lighting on 'tall' structures depends in the 
first instance upon any particular structure's location in relationship to an aerodrome. If 
the structure constitutes an 'aerodrome obstruction' it is the aerodrome operator that 
with review the lighting requirement. For civil aerodromes, they will, in general terms, 
follow the requirements of CAP 168 - Licensing of Aerodromes. This document can be 
downloaded from the Civil Aviation CAA website at 
www.caa.co.uk/docs/33/CAP168.PDF - Chapter 4 (12.8) refers to obstacle lighting.  
o Away from aerodromes Article 219 of the UK Air Navigation Order applies. This Article 
requires that for en-route obstructions (ie away from aerodromes) lighting only 
becomes legally mandated for structures of a height of 150m or more. However, 
structures of lesser high might need aviation obstruction lighting if, by virtue of their 
location and nature, they are considered a significant navigational hazard.  
o Cranes, whether in situ temporarily or long term are captured by the points heighted 
above.  Note that if a crane is located on top of another structure, it is the overall height 
(structure + crane) than is relevant. 
o In this case, given the assumed maximum height of 60m, Article 219 would not 
apply.  In the event that there is no aerodrome issue I can advise that the CAA would 
not in isolation make any case for lighting. 
 Gas Venting and/or Flaring.  It is assumed that the facility is not intended to vent or flare 
gas either routinely or as an emergency procedure such as to cause a danger to overlying 
2
aircraft.  If that is not the case parties are invited to use myself as an appropriate point of 
contact for any further related discussion. 
 Aviation Promulgation.  There is a civil aviation requirement in the UK for all structures over 
300 feet high to be charted on aviation maps.  It follows that, at 60m (197ft) high, there is 
no en-route (ie non-aerodrome specific) civil aviation charting requirement.  However, if 
crane usage in the construction phase involves heights of 300ft or more, the temporary 
structure will need to be appropriately notified.  For temporary structures this notification 
can be achieved through the publication of a Notice to Airmen (NOTAM).  If needed by 
virtue of temporary use of cranes such that the 300ft threshold is breached a NOTAM can 
be arranged through the developer providing related details to the CAA’s Airspace 
Utilisation Section (ausops@caa.co.uk / 0207 453 6599).   
 Military Aviation.  For completeness, the Ministry of Defence position in regards to the 
proposed development and military aviation activity should be established. 
 I should also add that that due to the unique nature of associated operations in respect of 
operating altitudes and potentially unusual landing sites, it would also be sensible to 
establish the related viewpoint of local emergency services air support units.      
   
I believe that any associated Environmental Statement / Development Consent Order (or 
equivalent / similar) would be expected to acknowledge and where applicable address the issues 
highlighted above and accordingly the scoping opinion should make related comment. 
 
Whilst none of the above negates any aforementioned need to consult in line with Government 
requirements associated with the safeguarding of aerodromes and other technical sites 
(Government Circular 1/2003 refers), I hope this information matches your requirements.  Please 
do not hesitate to get in touch if you require any further comment or needs clarification of any 
point. 
 
Mark Smailes 
Airspace Regulator 
Safety and Airspace Regulation Group 
Civil Aviation Authority 
CAA House 
45-59 Kingsway 
London WC2B 6TE  
Tel: 0207 453 6545 
 
    
 
 
From: Environmental Services [mailto:EnvironmentalServices@infrastructure.gsi.gov.uk]  
Sent: 20 June 2014 14:05 
To: NSIP.applications@hse.gsi.gov.uk 
Subject: Millbrook Power Project Scoping Request 
 
Please find attached correspondence about the Millbrook Power Project. 
 
 
 
********************************************************************** 
This email and any files transmitted with it are private and intended solely for the 
use of the individual or entity to which they are addressed. If you are not the 
3
intended recipient the E-mail and any files have been transmitted to you in error and 
any copying, distribution or other use of the information contained in them is 
strictly prohibited. 
 
Nothing in this E-mail message amounts to a contractual or other legal commitment on 
the part of the Government unless confirmed by a communication signed on behalf of the 
Secretary of State. 
 
The Department's computer systems may be monitored and communications carried on them 
recorded, to secure the effective operation of the system and for other lawful 
purposes. 
 
Correspondents should note that all communications from Department for Communities and 
Local Government may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for lawful 
purposes. 
*********************************************************************************** 
 
 
 
The original of this email was scanned for viruses by the Government Secure Intranet virus scanning service 
supplied by Vodafone in partnership with Symantec. (CCTM Certificate Number 2009/09/0052.) This email 
has been certified virus free. 
Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for legal purposes. 
 
This email was scanned by the Government Secure Intranet anti-virus service supplied by Vodafone in 
partnership with Symantec. (CCTM Certificate Number 2009/09/0052.) In case of problems, please call 
your organisations IT Helpdesk. 
Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for legal purposes. 
********************************************************************** 
Correspondents should note that all communications to Department for Communities and Local Government may be automatically logged, monitored and/or 
recorded for lawful purposes. 
********************************************************************** 
  
  
1
Case Administration
From:
Claire Ferguson <claire.ferguson@energetics-uk.com>
Sent:
23 June 2014 12:48
To:
Environmental Services
Subject:
EN010068
 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
 
Thank you for submitting your recent plant enquiry. 
 
Based on the information provided, I can confirm that Energetics does not have any plant within the area(s) 
specified in your request. 
 
Please be advised that it may take around 10 working days to process enquiries. In the unlikely event that you have 
been waiting longer than 10 working days, or require further assistance with outstanding enquiries, please call 
01698 404945. 
 
Please ensure all plant enquiries are sent to plantenquiries@energetics‐uk.com 
 
Regards 
 
Claire Ferguson 
Technical Clerical Team 
 
Energetics Design & Build 
International House 
Stanley Boulevard 
Hamilton International Technology Park 
Glasgow 
G72 0BN 
 
t: 01698 404979 
f: 01698 404940 
 
e: claire.ferguson@energetics‐uk.com 
w: www.energetics‐uk.com 
 
 
This email was scanned by the Government Secure Intranet anti-virus service supplied by Vodafone in 
partnership with Symantec. (CCTM Certificate Number 2009/09/0052.) In case of problems, please call 
your organisations IT Helpdesk. 
Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for legal purposes. 
********************************************************************** 
Correspondents should note that all communications to Department for Communities and Local Government may be automatically logged, monitored and/or 
recorded for lawful purposes. 
********************************************************************** 
  
  
  
 
Environment Agency  (Anglian Central Area) Sustainable Places Team 
Bromholme Lane, Brampton, Huntingdon, Cambridgeshire PE28 4NE 
Email: planning_liaison.anglian_central@environment-agency gov.uk 
www.environment-agency.gov.uk 
Customer services line: 03708 506 506 
Calls to 03 numbers cost the same as calls to standard 
geographic numbers (i.e. numbers beginning with 01 or 02). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Infrastructure Planning Commission 
Temple Quay House 
Temple Quay 
Bristol 
BS1 6PN 
 
 
 
 
 
Our ref: 
AC/2014/121264/01-L01 
Your ref: 
EN010068 
 
Date:  
15 July 2014 
 
 
Dear Sir/Madam 
 
PLANNING ACT 2008 (AS AMENDED) AND THE INFRASTRUCTURE PLANNING 
(ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT) REGULATIONS 2009 (AS 
AMENDED) – REGULATIONS 8 AND 9 
APPLICATION BY MILLBROOK POWER LTD FOR AN ORDER GRANTING 
DEVELOPMENT CONSENT FOR THE MILLBROOK POWER PROJECT   
MILLBROOK, BEDFORDSHIRE       
 
Thank you for your letter regarding the above mentioned site, which was received on 
20 June 2014. We have reviewed the Scoping Report and wish to make the following 
comments. 
 
We are in agreement with the proposed outline and the information to be included 
within the Environmental Statement. 
 
As has already been indicated to the Applicant, we recommend that our permitting 
team is contacted at the earliest opportunity, so that the Environmental Permit that 
will be required can be parallel tracked with the Development Consent Order 
process. 
 
 
Should you wish to discuss this matter further please do not hesitate to contact me. 
 
Yours faithfully 
 
 
Neville Benn  
Senior Planning Advisor 
Sustainable Places  
Direct dial 01480 483996  
Direct e-mail neville.benn@environment-agency.gov.uk 
 
      
 
 
 
  
1
Case Administration
From:
ES Pipelines <email@espipelines.com>
Sent:
23 June 2014 10:24
To:
Environmental Services
Subject:
Plant Affected Notice from ES Pipelines
Attachments:
Guidelines when working  in vicinity of gas apparatus up     to 7barg MOP rev April 
14.3.pdf; ESN010961.pdf; PPS7527.pdf; 9008512.pdf; 9008512-02.pdf
Alison Down  
The Planning Inspectorate  
23 June 2014  
Our Ref: PE126384 
Your Ref: Millbrook Power Project Scoping Request 
Millbrook Power Project  
Dear Sir/Madam, 
Further to your enquiry received on 23/06/2014, I can confirm that ES Pipelines Ltd may be 
affected by the proposed works in the area of Millbrook Power Project. ES Pipelines Ltd has a low 
pressure gas main serving the area in question (Reference ESN010961/PPS7527/9008512) at 
grid reference E504318, N246670 and security of supply is vitally important. 
Project drawing as laid extracts for these sites are enclosed (not to scale) for your information 
which show the approximate location of the ES Pipelines Ltd gas network close to the area of 
interest off Millbrook Power Project. 
As your plans for the proposed work develop you are required to keep ES Pipelines Ltd regularly 
updated about the extent and nature of your proposed works in order for us to fully establish 
whether any additional precautionary or diversionary works are necessary to protect our gas 
network.  
Arrangements can be set in place so that one of our representatives can meet on site (date to be 
agreed) and we will be happy to discuss the impact of your proposals on the gas network once we 
have received the details.  
A list of precautionary measures is attached for your information. This must be passed on to the 
appointed Contractors carrying out the work and any other associated parties.  
ESP Are continually constructing new gas and electricity networks and this notification is valid for 
90 days from the date of this letter. If your proposed works start after this period of time, please re-
submit your enquiry.  
If you wish to discuss the matter further please contact myself or the team on 01372 227560, 
alternatively you can email us at PlantResponses@espipelines.com. 
Yours faithfully,  
2
Alan Slee 
Operations Manager 
 
This email was scanned by the Government Secure Intranet anti-virus service supplied by Vodafone in 
partnership with Symantec. (CCTM Certificate Number 2009/09/0052.) In case of problems, please call 
your organisations IT Helpdesk. 
Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for legal purposes. 
********************************************************************** 
Correspondents should note that all communications to Department for Communities and Local Government may be automatically logged, monitored and/or 
recorded for lawful purposes. 
********************************************************************** 
  
ESP Utilities Group Limited 
GUIDANCE NOTE - ESP/HSG47 
 
 
ESP/HSG47 Version 3.0  
UNCONTROLLED WHEN PRINTED 
Page 1 of 2 
 
 
PRECAUTIONS TO BE TAKEN WHEN CARRYING OUT WORK IN THE VICINITY OF UNDERGROUND GAS PIPES  
ADVICE TO SITE PERSONNEL 
MANAGEMENT NOTE  
Please ensure that a copy of this note is read by your site management and to your site operatives.  
Early consultation with ESP Utilities Group prior to excavation is recommended to obtain the location of plant and precautions to be 
taken when working nearby. 
This Guidance Note should be read in conjunction with the Health and Safety Executive guidance HSG47 "Avoiding danger from 
underground services". 
 
Introduction  
Damage to ESP Utilities Group’s plant can result in uncontrolled gas escapes which may be dangerous.  In addition these 
occurrences can cause expense, disruption of work and inconvenience to the public.  
Various materials are used for gas mains and services.  Cast Iron, Ductile Iron, Steel and Plastic pipes are the most widely found.  
Modern Plastic pipes are either bright yellow or orange in colour.  
Cast Iron and Ductile Iron water pipes are very similar in appearance to Cast Iron and Ductile Iron gas pipes and if any Cast Iron or 
Ductile Iron pipe is uncovered, it should be treated as a gas pipe.  ESP Utilities Group do not own any metallic gas pipes but their gas 
network infrastructures may be connected to Cast Iron, Ductile Iron or Steel pipes owned by Transco.  
The following general precautions apply to Intermediate Pressure (2-7barg MOP), Medium Pressure (75mbarg-2barg MOP), Low 
Pressure (up to 75mbarg MOP) and other gas mains and services likely to be encountered in genera! site works and are referred to 
within this document as ‘pipes’.  
Locating Gas Pipes 
It should be assumed when working in urban and residential areas that gas mains and services are l kely to be present.  On request, 
ESP Utilities Group will give approximate locations of pipes derived from their records. The records do not normally show the position 
of service pipes but their probable line can be deducted from the gas meter position. ESP Utilities Group’s staff will be pleased to 
assist in the location of gas plant and provide advice on any precautions that may be required.  The records and advice are given in 
good faith but cannot be guaranteed until hand excavation has taken place.  Proprietary pipe and cable locators are available 
although generally these will not locate plastic pipes.  
Safe working Practices  
To achieve safe working conditions adjacent to gas plant the following must be observed: 
Observe any specific request made by ESP Utilities Group’s staff.  
Gas pipes must be located by hand digging before mechanical excavation. Once a gas pipe has been located, mechanical excavation 
must proceed with care.  A mechanical excavator must not in any case be used within 0.5 metre of a gas pipe and greater safety 
distances may be advised by ESP Utilities Group depending on the mains maximum operating pressure (MOP). 
Where heavy plant may have to cross the line of a gas pipe during construction work, the number of crossing points should be kept to 
a minimum. Crossing points should be clearly indicated and crossings at other places along the line of the pipe should be prevented.  
Where the pipe is not adequately protected by an existing road, crossing points should be suitably reinforced with sleepers, steel 
plates or a specially constructed reinforced concrete raft as necessary.  ESP Utilities Group staff will advise on the type of 
reinforcement necessary.  
No explosives should be used within 30 metres of any gas pipe without prior consultation with ESP Utilities Group.  
ESP Utilities Group must be consulted prior to carrying out excavation work within 10 metres of any above ground gas 
installation.  
Where it is proposed to carry out piling or boring within 15 metres of any gas pipe, ESP Utilities Group should be consulted prior to the 
commencement of the works.  
Access to gas plant must be maintained at all times during on site works.  
ESP Utilities Group Limited 
GUIDANCE NOTE - ESP/HSG47 
 
 
ESP/HSG47 Version 3.0  
UNCONTROLLED WHEN PRINTED 
Page 2 of 2 
 
Proximity of Other Plant  
A minimum clearance of 300 millimetres (mm) should be allowed between any plant being installed and an existing gas main to 
facilitate repair, whether the adjacent plant be parallel to or crossing the gas pipe.  No apparatus should be laid over and along the 
line of a gas pipe irrespective of clearance.  
No manhole or chambers shall be built over or around a gas pipe and no work should be carried out which results in a reduction of 
cover or protection over a pipe, without consultation with ESP Utilities Group.  
Support and Backfill 
Where excavation of trenches adjacent to any pipe affects its support, the pipe must be supported to the satisfaction of ESP Utilities 
Group and must not be used as an anchor or support in any way.  In some cases, it may be necessary to divert the gas pipe before 
work commences.  
Where a trench is excavated crossing or parallel to the line of the gas pipe, the backfill should be adequately compacted, particularly 
beneath the pipe, to prevent any settlement which could subsequently cause damage to the pipe.  
In special cases it may be necessary to provide permanent support to the gas pipe, before backfilling and reinstatement is carried out. 
Backfill material adjacent to gas plant must be selected fine material or sand, containing no stones, bricks or lumps of concrete, etc., 
placed to a minimum depth of 150mm around the pipes and well compacted by hand. No power compaction should take place until 
300 mm of selected fine fill has been suitably compacted.  
If the road construction is in close proximity to the top of the gas pipe, a "cushion" of selected fine material such as sand must be used 
to prevent the traffic shock being transmitted to the gas pipe.  The road construction depth must not be reduced without permission 
from the local Highway Authority.  
No concrete or other hard material must be placed or left under or adjacent to any Cast Iron pipe as this may cause fracture of the 
pipe at a later date.  
Concrete backfill should not be used closer than 300 mm to the pipe.  
Damage to Coating  
Where a gas pipe is coated with special wrapping and this is damaged, even to a minor extent ESP Utilities Group must be notified so 
that repairs can be made to prevent future corrosion and subsequent leakage.  
Welding or "Hot Works"  
When welding or other "hot works" involving naked flames are to be carried out in close proximity to gas plant and the presence of gas 
is suspected, ESP Utilities Group must be contacted before work commences to check the atmosphere.  Even when a gas free 
atmosphere exists care must be taken when carrying out hot works in close proximity to gas plant in order to ensure that no damage 
occurs.  
Particular care must be taken to avoid damage by heat or naked flame to plastic gas pipes or to the protective coating on other gas 
pipes. Leakage from Gas Mains or Services  
If damage or leakage is caused or an escape of gas is smelt or suspected the following action should be taken at once: 
  
 
Remove all personnel from the immediate vicinity of the escape; 
 
Contact Transco's National Gas Escape Call Centre, on: 0800 111 999; 
 
Prevent any approach by the public, proh bit smoking, extinguish all naked flames or other source of ignition for at least  
15 metres from the leakage;  
 
Assist gas personnel, Police or Fire Service as requested.  
REMEMBER – IF IN DOUBT, SEEK ADVICE FROM ESP UTILITIES GROUP. 
ESP Utilities Group can be contacted at: 
Office Address: Hazeldean, Station Road, Leatherhead, Surrey, KT22 7AA  
Office Tel: 01372 227560; Fax: 01372 377996 
 
Forest Services 
East & East Midlands 
Santon Downham 
Brandon 
Suffolk 
IP27 0TJ 
 
Tel 01842 815544   
Fax 01842 813932  
eandem@forestry.gsi.gov.uk 
 
Area Director  
Steve Scott 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        
 
 
 
 
 
Our Ref: Millbrook/03.07.14/01 
 
 
Dear Ms Down, 
 
 
Application Millbrook Power Project – Scoping consultation 
 
The Forestry Commission as the Government Department with responsibility for trees and 
woodland have examined the Environmental Impact Scoping report. We are aware of the 
modest amount of woodland on site of some 2.4 ha, and there is woodland around the site. 
The scoping report as such only deals with what is there currently and we would be interested 
in any proposals in later stages to increase woodland coverage as part of any landscaping and 
screening. 
 
Both planting and felling of trees could constitute “afforestation or deforestation” under the 
Environmental Impact Assessment (Forestry) (England and Wales) Regulations 1999 (Statutory 
Instrument No. 2228/1999) for which the Forestry Commission is the competent authority, and 
may therefore require consent from the Forestry Commissioners  - a summary of the 
regulations is in the annex to this letter. 
 
Government policy is seeking to increase woodland cover to some 2000ha per annum and we 
are aware of the ambition for the Forest of Marston Vale which is close to this therefore we 
hope that the developers will seek to avoid any deforestation. Should this be a requirement we 
would like to see compensatory new plantings in the ratio of at least 4:1 i.e. four trees planted 
to one removed, this precedent having been set in other planning applications. 
While no felling is indicated so far we would remind developers that if planning consent is 
granted then this precludes the requirements for felling licences, however, until consent is 
given, trees cannot be felled without the issuing of a Felling Licence from the Forestry 
Commission. 
Should any deforestation require compensatory plantings we would also like to  the suggest 
that proposers think about the long term management of any woodland created and consider 
ensuring an appropriate woodland management plan is in place should the project go ahead. 
 
By email only 
Attn:Alison Down 
Planning Inspectorate(National 
Infrastructure Directory) 
Temple Quay House 
Temple Quay, 
Bristol 
BS1 6PN 
 
3rd  July 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 2 
We can provide advice if required. 
Yours sincerely  
Corinne Meakins 
Local Partnership Advisor 
Cc Milbrook Power 
 
Annex 
 
Forestry Authorities carrying out an EIA under the Town and Country Planning (Environmental 
Impact Assessment) (England and Wales) Regulations 1999 (Statutory Instrument No. 
293/1999) must  inform the Forestry Commission of the conclusions reached in 
considering any afforestation or deforestation. (The context of guidance issued by the 
European Commission in 2008 is helpful in determining which regulations may apply. 
 http://ec.europa.eu/environment/eia/pdf/interpretation_eia.pdf )  
  
In the light of this response the FC will then be in a position to determine whether or not 
consent from the Forestry Commissioners may be required.  In the event that the 
Commissioners’ consent is required then the FC would have to consider the impact of 
the project as a whole i.e. including all the development. Not just that arising from 
impact on any woodland. This arises from a judgement in 2007 by the High 
Court http://www.bailii.org/cgi-
bin/markup.cgi?doc=/ew/cases/EWHC/Admin/2007/1623.html&query=newbottle+and+wood&
method=boolean  
 
 
 
 
Page 3 
 
If we can be of any assistance in clarifying any of the above please do not hesitate to contact 
me. 
 
 
Yours sincerely 
 
Steve Scott 
Area Director 
16th December 2013 
  
1
From: Penlington, Graham [mailto:Graham.Penlington@fulcrum.co.uk] On Behalf Of 
&box_FPLplantprotection_conx, 
Sent: 27 June 2014 08:55 
To: Environmental Services 
Subject: RE: Millbrook Power Project Scoping Request 
Thank you for asking Fulcrum Pipelines Limited to examine your consultation document for the above project. 
We can confirm that Fulcrum Pipelines Limited have no comments to make on this scoping report. Please note that 
we are constantly adding to our underground assets and would strongly advise that you consult us again prior to 
undertaking any excavations.  
Please note that other gas transporters may have plant in this locality which could be affected. 
We will always make every effort to help you where we can, but Fulcrum Pipelines Limited will not be held 
responsible for any incident or accident arising from the use of the information associated with this search. The 
details provided are given in good faith, but no liability whatsoever can be accepted in respect thereof. 
If you need any help or information simply contact Fulcrum on 0845 641 3060 
To save you time, any future requests for information about our plant, can be emailed to 
FPLplantprotection@fulcrum.co.uk 
GRAHAM PENLINGTON 
Process Assistant 
Tel: 0845 641 3060 
Direct Dial: 01142 804 175 
Email: Graham.Penlington@fulcrum.co.uk 
Web: www.fulcrum.co.uk 
FULCRUM NEWS
FULCRUM ENGINEER SCOOPS TOP GAS INDUSTRY AWARD 
Fulcrum’s Paul Leighton named as the UK gas industry’s 2014 Engineer of The Year. Learn more. 
FULCRUM TOASTS SUCCESSFUL COMPLETION OF HISTORIC £7.6MILLION, 16 MILE GAS PIPELINE 
16‐mile link to Scotland's main gas network completed six‐months ahead of schedule despite winter temperatures of‐
12°C. Learn more. 
  
From: Margaret.Ketteridge@gtc-uk.co.uk [mailto:Margaret.Ketteridge@gtc-uk.co.uk]  
Sent: 09 July 2014 14:00 
To: Environmental Services 
Subject: EN010068 
 
Dear Sirs 
With reference to the above I can confirm that the following have no comments to make at this 
moment in time.:- 
  
Independent Pipelines Limited 
Quadrant Pipelines Limited 
GTC Pipelines Limited 
The Electricity Network Company 
Independent Power Networks Limited 
  
Kind Regards 
  
Maggie 
  
Maggie Ketteridge 
Engineering Support Officer 
GTC 
Energy House 
Woolpit Business Park 
Woolpit 
Bury St Edmunds 
Suffolk, IP30 9UP 
Tel: 01359 245406 
Fax: 01359 243377 
E-mail: margaret.ketteridge@gtc-uk.co.uk 
Web: www.gtc-uk.co.uk 
  
  
 
 
NOTE: 
This E-Mail originates from GTC, Energy House, Woolpit Business Park, Woolpit, Bury St Edmunds, 
Suffolk, IP30 9UP 
VAT Number: GB688 8971 40. Registered No: 029431.  
 
DISCLAIMER 
The information in this E-Mail and in any attachments is confidential and may be privileged. If you are 
not the intended recipient, please destroy this message, delete any copies held on your system and 
notify the sender immediately. You should not retain, copy or use this E-Mail for any purpose, nor 
disclose all or any part of its content to any other person. Whilst we run antivirus software on Internet 
E-Mails, we are not liable for any loss or damage. The recipient is advised to run their own up to date 
antivirus software. 
Thank you  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 1 of 2 
An executive agency of the 
Department for Transport 
 
 
Our ref: 
 
Your ref: 
EN010068 
 
 
Alison Down 
EIA and Lands Rights Adviser 
 
via email: 
environmentalservices@infrastructure.gsi.gov.uk 
 
 
 
 
Jenny Volp 
Asset Manager - Area 8 
 
Woodlands 
Manton Lane 
Bedford MK41 7LW 
 
Direct Line: 
01234 796590 
 
8 July 2014 
 
 
 
Dear Ms Down 
 
 
 
SCOPING CONSULTATION ON APPLICATION BY MILLBROOK LTD FOR AN 
ORDER GRANTING DEVELOPMENT CONSENT FOR THE MILLBROOK POWER 
PROJECT 
 
 
 
Thank you for your letter of 20 June requesting comments from the Highways Agency 
regarding the scoping opinion for the Millbrook Power Application. 
 
I have read the applicants Scoping report and in particular section 5.9 on Transport, I 
have a few comments which I have listed below: 
 
1. I understand that there are currently 2 proposed access routes to the site – one 
being from Junction 13 of the M1. Both access routes need to be assessed in 
line with current guidance – you should be aware of DfT Circular 02/13 and the 
Highways Agency Planning Protocols. I would expect the transport assessment 
to fully assess the impact on the Strategic and Local Road network throughout 
construction, operation and decommissioning periods.  
 
2. Any abnormal loads will need to be discussed and their route agreed either at the 
planning stage or shortly after to ensure that the impact on the road network is 
minimised 
 
3. A construction management plan should be put in place to ensure that the impact 
on the road network is minimised – deliveries to the site should be out of peak 
periods. 
 
4. I would also expect to see a travel plan for staff working at the site to be 
implemented to reduce the number of trips associated with the development. 
 
 
National Grid house 
Warwick Technology Park 
Gallows Hill, Warwick 
CV34 6DA 
 
National Grid is a trading name for: 
National Grid is  a trading name for: 
National Grid Electricity Transmission plc 
National Grid Gas plc 
Registered Office: 1-3 Strand, London WC2N 5EH 
Registered Office: 1-3 Strand, London WC2N 5EH 
Registered in England and Wales, No 2366977 
Registered in England and Wales, No 2006000 
 
 
The Planning Inspectorate 
3/20 Eagle Wing 
Temple Quay House 
2 The Square 
Bristol 
BS1 6PN  
Land and Development 
Laura Kelly 
Town Planner 
Network Engineering  
Laura.kelly@nationalgrid.com 
Direct tel: +44 (0)1926 654686 
 
 
SUBMITTED VIA EMAIL TO:  
environmentalservices@infrastructure.gsi.gov.uk  
 
 
www.nationalgrid.com 
27 June 2014 
 
 
 
Your Ref: EN010068 
 
 
 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
 
 
 Planning Act 2008 (as amended) and The Infrastructure Planning (Environmental Impact 
Assessment) Regulations 2009 (as amended) – Regulations 8 and 9  
 
Application by Millbrook Power Ltd for an Order Granting Development Consent for the 
Millbrook Power Project 
 
This is a joint response by National Grid Electricity Transmission plc (NGET) and National Grid Gas plc 
(NGG) 
 
I refer to your letter dated 20th June 2014 regarding the above proposed application. Having 
reviewed the scoping report, I would like to make the following comments: 
 
National Grid Infrastructure within or in close proximity to the Proposed Order Limits 
 
National Grid Electricity Transmission 
National Grid Electricity Transmission has a high voltage electricity overhead transmission lines 
which lie within or in close proximity to the proposed order limits. These lines form an essential part 
of the electricity transmission network in England and Wales and include the following: 
 
 
ZA 400kV Overhead Transmission Line – Grendon- Sundon 
 
The following points should be taken into consideration: 
 
 
National Grid’s Overhead Line/s is protected by a Deed of Easement/Wayleave Agreement 
which provides full right of access to retain, maintain, repair and inspect our asset 
 
 
Statutory electrical safety clearances must be maintained at all times. Any proposed 
buildings must not be closer than 5.3m to the lowest conductor. National Grid recommends 
 
National Grid house 
Warwick Technology Park 
Gallows Hill, Warwick 
CV34 6DA 
 
National Grid is a trading name for: 
National Grid is  a trading name for: 
National Grid Electricity Transmission plc 
National Grid Gas plc 
Registered Office: 1-3 Strand, London WC2N 5EH 
Registered Office: 1-3 Strand, London WC2N 5EH 
Registered in England and Wales, No 2366977 
Registered in England and Wales, No 2006000 
 
that no permanent structures are built directly beneath overhead lines. These distances are 
set out in EN 43 – 8 Technical Specification for “overhead line clearances Issue 3 (2004) 
available at: 
http://www.nationalgrid.com/uk/LandandDevelopment/DDC/devnearohl final/appendixIII/ap
pIII-part2 
 
 
If any changes in ground levels are proposed either beneath or in close proximity to our 
existing overhead lines then this would serve to reduce the safety clearances for such 
overhead lines. Safe clearances for existing overhead lines must be maintained in all 
circumstances. 
 
 
Further guidance on development near electricity transmission overhead lines is available 
here: http://www.nationalgrid.com/NR/rdonlyres/1E990EE5-D068-4DD6-8C9A-
4D0B06A1BA79/31436/Developmentnearoverheadlines1.pdf 
 
 
The relevant guidance in relation to working safely near to existing overhead lines is 
contained within the Health and Safety Executive’s (www.hse.gov.uk)  Guidance Note GS 
6 “Avoidance of Danger from Overhead Electric Lines”  and all relevant site staff should 
make sure that they are both aware of and understand this guidance. 
 
 
Plant, machinery, equipment, buildings or scaffolding should not encroach within 5.3 
metres of any of our high voltage conductors when those conductors are under their worse 
conditions of maximum “sag” and “swing” and overhead line profile (maximum “sag” and 
“swing”) drawings should be obtained using the contact details above. 
 
 
If a landscaping scheme is proposed as part of the proposal, we request that only slow and 
low growing species of trees and shrubs are planted beneath and adjacent to the existing 
overhead line to reduce the risk of growth to a height which compromises statutory safety 
clearances. 
 
 
Drilling or excavation works should not be undertaken if they have the potential to disturb 
or adversely affect the foundations or “pillars of support” of any existing tower.  These 
foundations always extend beyond the base area of the existing tower and foundation 
(“pillar of support”) drawings can be obtained using the contact details above 
 
 
Due to the scale, bulk and cost of the transmission equipment required to operate at 275kV 
or 400kV we only support proposals for the relocation of existing high voltage overhead 
lines where such proposals directly facilitate a major development or infrastructure project 
of national importance which has been identified as such by government.  
 
To view the Development Near Lines Documents. Please use the link below: 
http://www.nationalgrid.com/uk/LandandDevelopment/SC/devnearohl final/ 
 
To view the National Grid Policy's for our Sense of Place Document. Please use the link below: 
http://www.nationalgrid.com/uk/LandandDevelopment/DDC/ 
 
 
 
 
 
National Grid house 
Warwick Technology Park 
Gallows Hill, Warwick 
CV34 6DA 
 
National Grid is a trading name for: 
National Grid is  a trading name for: 
National Grid Electricity Transmission plc 
National Grid Gas plc 
Registered Office: 1-3 Strand, London WC2N 5EH 
Registered Office: 1-3 Strand, London WC2N 5EH 
Registered in England and Wales, No 2366977 
Registered in England and Wales, No 2006000 
 
 
National Grid Gas Transmission  
 
National Grid has three high pressure gas transmission pipelines located within or in close 
proximity to the proposed order limits. The high pressure gas pipeline located within this area is: 
 
 
FM09- Huntingdon- Steppingley 
 
FM26- Huntington- Steppingley 
 
FM07- Old Warden- Chalgrove 
 
 
 
Specific Comments – Gas Infrastructure 
 
The following points should be taken into consideration: 
 
 
National Grid has a Deed of Grant of Easement for each pipeline, which prevents the 
erection of permanent / temporary buildings, or structures, change to existing ground 
levels, storage of materials etc.  
 
Pipeline Crossings: 
 
 
Where existing roads cannot be used, construction traffic should ONLY cross the pipeline 
at previously agreed locations.  
 
 
The pipeline shall be protected, at the crossing points, by temporary rafts constructed at 
ground level. The third party shall review ground conditions, vehicle types and crossing 
frequencies to determine the type and construction of the raft required.  
 
 
The type of raft shall be agreed with National Grid prior to installation. 
 
 
No protective measures including the installation of concrete slab protection shall be 
installed over or near to the National Grid pipeline without the prior permission of National 
Grid.  
 
 
National Grid will need to agree the material, the dimensions and method of installation of 
the proposed protective measure.  
 
 
The method of installation shall be confirmed through the submission of a formal written 
method statement from the contractor to National Grid. 
 
 
Please be aware that written permission is required before any works commence within the 
National Grid easement strip. 
 
 
A National Grid representative shall monitor any works within close proximity to the 
pipeline to comply with National Grid specification T/SP/SSW22. 
 
A Deed of Consent is required for any crossing of the easement 
 
 
National Grid house 
Warwick Technology Park 
Gallows Hill, Warwick 
CV34 6DA 
 
National Grid is a trading name for: 
National Grid is  a trading name for: 
National Grid Electricity Transmission plc 
National Grid Gas plc 
Registered Office: 1-3 Strand, London WC2N 5EH 
Registered Office: 1-3 Strand, London WC2N 5EH 
Registered in England and Wales, No 2366977 
Registered in England and Wales, No 2006000 
 
Cables Crossing: 
 
 
Cables may cross the pipeline at perpendicular angle to the pipeline i.e. 90 degrees. 
 
 
A National Grid representative shall supervise any cable crossing of a pipeline. 
 
 
Clearance must be at least 600mm above or below the pipeline. 
 
 
Impact protection slab should be laid between the cable and pipeline if cable crossing is 
above the pipeline. 
 
 
A Deed of Consent is required for any cable crossing the easement. 
 
 
Where a new service is to cross over the pipeline a clearance distance of 0.6 metres 
between the crown of the pipeline and underside of the service should be maintained. If 
this cannot be achieved the service shall cross below the pipeline with a clearance 
distance of 0.6 metres. 
 
General Notes on Pipeline Safety: 
 
You should be aware of the Health and Safety Executives guidance document HS(G) 47 
"Avoiding Danger from Underground Services", and National Grid’s specification for Safe 
Working in the Vicinity of National Grid High Pressure gas pipelines and associated 
installations - requirements for third parties T/SP/SSW22.  
 
National Grid will also need to ensure that our pipelines access is maintained during and 
after construction.  
 
Our pipelines are normally buried to a depth cover of 1.1 metres however; actual depth and 
position must be confirmed on site by trial hole investigation under the supervision of a 
National Grid representative. Ground cover above our pipelines should not be reduced or 
increased. 
 
 
If any excavations are planned within 3 metres of National Grid High Pressure Pipeline or, 
within 10 metres of an AGI (Above Ground Installation), or if any embankment or dredging 
works are proposed then the actual position and depth of the pipeline must be established 
on site in the presence of a National Grid representative. A safe working method agreed 
prior to any work taking place in order to minimise the risk of damage and ensure the final 
depth of cover does not affect the integrity of the pipeline. 
 
 
Excavation works may take place unsupervised no closer than 3 metres from the pipeline 
once the actual depth and position has been has been confirmed on site under the 
supervision of a National Grid representative. Similarly, excavation with hand held power 
tools is not permitted within 1.5 metres from our apparatus and the work is undertaken with 
NG supervision and guidance. 
 
To view the SSW22 Document, please use the link below: 
http://www.nationalgrid.com/uk/LandandDevelopment/DDC/GasElectricNW/safeworking.htm 
 
To view the National Grid Policy's for our Sense of Place Document. Please use the link below: 
http://www.nationalgrid.com/uk/LandandDevelopment/DDC/ 
 
National Grid house 
Warwick Technology Park 
Gallows Hill, Warwick 
CV34 6DA 
 
National Grid is a trading name for: 
National Grid is  a trading name for: 
National Grid Electricity Transmission plc 
National Grid Gas plc 
Registered Office: 1-3 Strand, London WC2N 5EH 
Registered Office: 1-3 Strand, London WC2N 5EH 
Registered in England and Wales, No 2366977 
Registered in England and Wales, No 2006000 
 
 
To download a copy of the HSE Guidance HS(G)47, please use the following link: 
http://www.hse.gov.uk/pubns/books/hsg47.htm 
 
Further information in relation to National Grid’s gas transmission pipelines can be accessed via 
the following internet link:  
 
http://www.nationalgrid.com/uk/LandandDevelopment/DDC/gastransmission/gaspipes/ 
 
 
 
 
Further Advice 
 
We would request that the potential impact of the proposed scheme on National Grid’s 
existing assets as set out above is considered in any subsequent reports, including in the 
Environmental Statement, and as part of any subsequent application.  
 
Where the promoter intends to acquire land, extinguish rights, or interfere with any of 
National Grid apparatus protective provisions will be required in a form acceptable to it to 
be included within the DCO.  
 
Where any diversion of apparatus may be required to facilitate a scheme, National Grid is 
unable to give any certainty with the regard to diversions until such time as adequate 
conceptual design studies have been undertaken by National Grid. Further information 
relating to this can be obtained by contacting the email address below.  
 
National Grid requests to be consulted at the earliest stages to ensure that the most 
appropriate protective provisions are included within the DCO application to safeguard the 
integrity of our apparatus and to remove the requirement for objection. All consultations 
should be sent to the following: DCOConsultations@nationalgrid.com as well as by post to 
the following address: 
 
The Company Secretary  
1-3 The Strand 
London 
WC2N 5EH 
 
In order to respond at the earliest opportunity National Grid will require the following: 
 
 Draft DCO including the Book of Reference and relevant Land Plans 
 Shape Files or CAD Files for the order limits 
 
I hope the above information is useful. If you require any further information please do not hesitate 
to contact me.  
 
The information in this letter is provided not withstanding any discussions taking place in relation to 
connections with electricity or gas customer services.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
Case Administration
From:
ROSSI, Sacha <Sacha.Rossi@nats.co.uk>
Sent:
24 June 2014 15:13
To:
Environmental Services
Cc:
NATS Safeguarding
Subject:
RE: Millbrook Power Project Scoping Request
Dear Sir/Madam, 
 
NATS anticipates no impact from the proposal and has no comments to make. 
 
Regards 
S. Rossi 
NATS Safeguarding Office 
 
 
Mr Sacha Rossi 
ATC Systems Safeguarding Engineer  
  
: 01489 444 205 
: sacha.rossi@nats.co.uk   
  
NATS Safeguarding 
4000 Parkway, 
Whiteley, PO15 7FL 
  
http://www.nats.co.uk/windfarms  
 
 
 
From: Environmental Services [mailto:EnvironmentalServices@infrastructure.gsi.gov.uk]  
Sent: 20 June 2014 14:05 
To: NSIP.applications@hse.gsi.gov.uk 
Subject: Millbrook Power Project Scoping Request 
 
Please find attached correspondence about the Millbrook Power Project. 
 
 
If you are not the intended recipient, please notify our Help Desk at Email Information.Solutions@nats.co.uk 
immediately. You should not copy or use this email or attachment(s) for any purpose nor disclose their contents 
to any other person.  
 
NATS computer systems may be monitored and communications carried on them recorded, to secure the effective 
operation of the system.  
 
Please note that neither NATS nor the sender accepts any responsibility for viruses or any losses caused as a 
result of viruses and it is your responsibility to scan or otherwise check this email and any attachments.  
 
NATS means NATS (En Route) plc (company number: 4129273), NATS (Services) Ltd (company number 
4129270), NATSNAV Ltd (company number: 4164590) or NATS Ltd (company number 3155567) or NATS 
Holdings Ltd (company number 4138218). All companies are registered in England and their registered office is at 
4000 Parkway, Whiteley, Fareham, Hampshire, PO15 7FL.  
 
This email was scanned by the Government Secure Intranet anti-virus service supplied by Vodafone in 
partnership with Symantec. (CCTM Certificate Number 2009/09/0052.) In case of problems, please call 
2
your organisations IT Helpdesk. 
Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for legal purposes. 
********************************************************************** 
Correspondents should note that all communications to Department for Communities and Local Government may be automatically logged, monitored and/or 
recorded for lawful purposes. 
********************************************************************** 
  
Page 1 of 1 
Date: 
18 July 2014 
Our ref:  124328 
Your ref: EN010068 
 
  
 
ALISON L DOWN  
EIA & Land Rights Adviser  
on behalf of the Secretary of State 
3/20 Eagle Wing  
Temple Quay House  
2 The Square  
Bristol, BS1 6PN  
 
 
BY EMAIL ONLY 
 
 
 Customer Services 
 Hornbeam House 
 Crewe Business Park 
 Electra Way 
 Crewe 
 Cheshire 
 CW1 6GJ 
 
 T 0300 060 3900 
  
 
Dear Alison 
 
 
Planning Act 2008 (as amended) and The Infrastructure Planning 
(Environmental Impact Assessment) Regulations 2009 (as amended) – 
Regulations 8 and 9  
Application by Millbrook Power Ltd for an Order Granting Development 
Consent for the Millbrook Power Project  
Scoping consultation and notification of the applicant’s contact details and 
duty to make available information to the applicant if requested  
 
Thank you for your consultation about the scoping of the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA). 
 
Natural England is a non-departmental public body. Our statutory purpose is to ensure that the 
natural environment is conserved, enhanced, and managed for the benefit of present and future 
generations, thereby contributing to sustainable development.  
 
Natural England is broadly satisfied with the approach to ecology detailed in the scoping report in 
respect of identification of potential effects and proposed assessment methodology, as pertaining to 
our remit.  The approach is appropriate and compliant with current best practice (i.e. in line with the 
Institute of ecology and Environmental Management’s (IEEEM) Guidelines for Ecological Impact 
Assessment in the UK).   
 
For any queries relating to the specific advice in this letter only please contact John Jackson  on 
0300 060 1979. For any new consultations, or to provide further information on this consultation 
please send your correspondences to consultations@naturalengland.org.uk. 
 
Yours sincerely 
 
John Jackson 
Land Use Adviser 
Norfolk & Suffolk Team  
0300 060 1979 
John.Jackson@naturalengland.org.uk 
  
From: Carol Wilson [mailto:Carol.Wilson@north-herts.gov.uk]  
Sent: 09 July 2014 09:39 
To: Environmental Services 
Subject: Millbrook Power Project 
 
Dear Sir/Madam  
EN010068  
Millbrook Power Project Scoping Request  
North Hertfordshire District Council do not require to be consulted regarding the above proposal.  
Regards  
Carol Wilson  
Technical Support Officer  
Direct Dial: 01462 474822  
North Hertfordshire District Council  
Council Offices  
Gernon Road  
Letchworth Garden City  
Hertfordshire  
SG6 3JF  
carol.wilson@north-herts.gov.uk  
www.north-herts.gov.uk  
 
                                      
 
Any opinions expressed in this email are those solely of the  
individual. This email and any files transmitted with it are  
confidential and solely for the use of the intended recipient.  
If you are not the intended recipient or the person responsible  
for delivering to the recipient, be advised that you have received  
this email in error and that any use is strictly prohibited. If you  
have received this email in error please delete it.  
 
  
The Chilterns  
Conservation Board 
The Lodge 
90 Station Road 
Chinnor 
Oxfordshire 
OX39 4HA 
 
 
 
Contact: Colin White 
 
 
 
 
Chairman: 
Cllr Ian Reay 
Tel: 01844 355507 
 
 
 
 
Vice Chairman: 
Helen Tuffs 
Fax: 01844 355501 
 
 
 
 
Chief Officer: 
Steve Rodrick 
E Mail: cwhite@chilternsaonb.org 
 
 
 
 
www.chilternsaonb.org 
 
 
 
 
  
 
24th June 2014 
 
Alison Down 
The Planning Inspectorate 
3/20 Eagle Wing 
Temple Quay House 
2 The Square 
Bristol BS1 6PN 
 
My Ref.: Plan apps/NSIPs/021-14 Millbrook Power 240614 
Your Ref: EN010068 
 
Sent by email only to: environmentalservices@infrastructure.gsi.gov.uk 
 
Dear Madam, 
Application by Millbrook Power Ltd. for an Order Granting Development Consent for 
the Millbrook Power Project 
Thank you for consulting the Chilterns Conservation Board in connection with the proposal 
detailed above. 
The EIA Scoping Report has been examined and I write to tell you that the Chilterns 
Conservation Board has no comments to make on the proposal as currently presented.  
We trust that the Board will be consulted should the details of the proposal change to any 
great extent. 
Yours faithfully, 
 
Colin White MRTPI 
Planning Officer 
For and on behalf of the Chilterns Conservation Board 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Protecting the public and the environment in coal mining areas 
 
1
200 Lichfield Lane 
Berry Hill 
Mansfield 
Nottinghamshire 
NG18 4RG 
 
Tel:  
01623 637 119 (Planning Enquiries) 
 
 
Email:  planningconsultation@coal.gov.uk 
 
Web:   www.coal.decc.gov.uk/services/planning 
  
Ms Alison Down – EIA and Land Rights Adviser 
The Planning Inspectorate 
 
[By Email: environmentalservices@infrastructure.gsi.gov.uk] 
 
Your Ref: EN010068 
 
14 July 2014 
  
Dear Ms Jones 
 
Planning Act 2008 (as amended) and The Infrastructure Planning (Environmental 
Impact Assessment) Regulations 2009 (as amended) – Regulations 8 and 9 
 
Application by Millbrook Power Ltd for an Order Granting Development Consent for 
the Millbrook Power Project 
 
Thank you for your consultation letter of 20 June 2014 seeking the views of The Coal 
Authority on the EIA Scoping Opinion for the above proposal. 
 
The Coal Authority is a non-departmental public body sponsored by the Department of 
Energy and Climate Change.  As a statutory consultee, The Coal Authority has a duty to 
respond to planning applications and development plans in order to protect the public and 
the environment in mining areas. 
 
The Coal Authority Response: 
 
I have reviewed the proposals and confirm that the proposed EIA development is located 
outside of the defined coalfield.  Accordingly, The Coal Authority has no comments to 
make regarding the information to be contained in the Environmental Statement that will 
accompany this proposal. 
 
As this proposal lies outside of the defined coalfield, in accordance with Regulation 3 and 
Schedule 1 of the Infrastructure Planning (Applications: Prescribed Forms and Procedure) 
Regulations 2009 it will not be necessary for any further consultations to be undertaken 
with The Coal Authority on this Nationally Significant Infrastructure Project.  This letter can 
 
 
Protecting the public and the environment in coal mining areas 
 
2
be used by the applicant as evidence for the legal and procedural consultation 
requirements. 
 
Please do not hesitate to contact me if you would like to discuss this matter further. 
 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
Mark Harrison 
 
Mark E. N. Harrison B.A.(Hons), DipTP, LL.M, MInstLM, MRTPI 
Planning Liaison Manager 
 
 
Disclaimer 
 
The above consultation response is provided by The Coal Authority as a Statutory 
Consultee and is based upon the latest available data and records held by The Coal 
Authority on the date of the response.  The comments made are also based upon only the 
information provided to The Coal Authority by the Local Planning Authority and/or has 
been published on the Council's website for consultation purposes in relation to this 
specific planning application.  The views and conclusions contained in this response may 
be subject to review and amendment by The Coal Authority if additional or new 
data/information (such as a revised Coal Mining Risk Assessment) is provided by the 
Local Planning Authority or the applicant for consultation purposes. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX 3 
Presentation of the Environmental 
Statement 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix 3 
 
 
APPENDIX 3 
PRESENTATION OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL STATEMENT 
The 
Infrastructure 
Planning 
(Applications: 
Prescribed 
Forms 
and 
Procedure) Regulations 2009 (SI 2264) (as amended) sets out the 
information which must be provided for an application for a development 
consent order (DCO) for nationally significant infrastructure under the 
Planning Act 2008. Where required, this includes an environmental 
statement. Applicants may also provide any other documents considered 
necessary 
to 
support 
the 
application. 
Information 
which 
is 
not 
environmental information need not be replicated or included in the ES.  
An environmental statement (ES) is described under the Infrastructure 
Planning (Environmental Impact Assessment) Regulations 2009 (SI 2263) 
(as amended) (the EIA Regulations) as a statement: 
a) 
‘that includes such of the information referred to in Part 1 of 
Schedule 4 as is reasonably required to assess the environmental 
effects of the development and of any associated development and 
which the applicant can, having regard in particular to current 
knowledge and methods of assessment, reasonably be required to 
compile; but 
b) 
that includes at least the information required in Part 2 of 
Schedule 4’. 
(EIA Regulations Regulation 2) 
The purpose of an ES is to ensure that the environmental effects of a 
project are fully considered, together with the economic or social benefits 
of the development, before the development consent application under 
the Planning Act 2008 is determined.  The ES should be an aid to decision 
making. 
The SoS advises that the ES should be laid out clearly with a minimum 
amount of technical terms and should provide a clear objective and 
realistic description of the likely significant impacts of the project. The 
information should be presented so as to be comprehensible to the 
specialist and non-specialist alike. The SoS recommends that the ES be 
concise with technical information placed in appendices. 
ES Indicative Contents 
The SoS emphasises that the ES should be a ‘stand-alone’ document in 
line with best practice and case law. The EIA Regulations Schedule 4, 
Parts 1 and 2, set out the information for inclusion in environmental 
statements.  
Schedule 4 Part 1 of the EIA Regulations states this information includes: 
‘17.  
Description of the development, including in particular— 
 
 
 
Appendix 3 
 
 
(a)  
a description of the physical characteristics of the 
whole development and the land-use requirements 
during the construction and operational phases; 
(b)  
a description of the main characteristics of the 
production processes, for instance, nature and quantity 
of the materials used; 
(c)  
an estimate, by type and quantity, of expected 
residues and emissions (water, air and soil pollution, 
noise, vibration, light, heat, radiation, etc) resulting 
from the operation of the proposed development. 
 
18.  
An outline of the main alternatives studied by the applicant 
and an indication of the main reasons for the applicant’s 
choice, taking into account the environmental effects. 
 
19.  
A description of the aspects of the environment likely to be 
significantly affected by the development, including, in 
particular, population, fauna, flora, soil, water, air, climatic 
factors, material assets, including the architectural and 
archaeological heritage, landscape and the interrelationship 
between the above factors. 
 
20.  
A description of the likely significant effects of the 
development on the environment, which should cover the 
direct effects and any indirect, secondary, cumulative, short, 
medium and long-term, permanent and temporary, positive 
and negative effects of the development, resulting from: 
(a)  
the existence of the development; 
(b) 
the use of natural resources; 
(c)  
the emission of pollutants, the creation of nuisances 
and the elimination of waste,  
and the description by the applicant of the forecasting 
methods used to assess the effects on the environment. 
 
21.  
A description of the measures envisaged to prevent, reduce 
and where possible offset any significant adverse effects on 
the environment. 
 
22.  
A non-technical summary of the information provided under 
paragraphs 1 to 5 of this Part. 
 
23.  
An indication of any difficulties (technical deficiencies or lack 
of know-how) encountered by the applicant in compiling the 
required information’. 
EIA Regulations Schedule 4 Part 1 
The content of the ES must include as a minimum those matters set out in 
Schedule 4 Part 2 of the EIA Regulations.  This includes the consideration 
of ‘the main alternatives studied by the applicant’ which the SoS 
recommends could be addressed as a separate chapter in the ES.  Part 2 
is included below for reference: 
 
 
 
Appendix 3 
 
 
Schedule 4 Part 2 
 
A description of the development comprising information on the 
site, design and size of the development 
 
A description of the measures envisaged in order to avoid, reduce 
and, if possible, remedy significant adverse  effects 
 
The data required to identify and assess the main effects which the 
development is likely to have on the environment 
 
An outline of the main alternatives studies by the applicant and an 
indication of the main reasons for the applicant’s choice, taking into 
account the environmental effects, and 
 
A non-technical summary of the information provided [under the 
four paragraphs above]. 
Traffic and transport is not specified as a topic for assessment under 
Schedule 4; although in line with good practice the SoS considers it is an 
important consideration per se, as well as being the source of further 
impacts in terms of air quality and noise and vibration. 
Balance 
The SoS recommends that the ES should be balanced, with matters which 
give rise to a greater number or more significant impacts being given 
greater prominence. Where few or no impacts are identified, the technical 
section may be much shorter, with greater use of information in 
appendices as appropriate. 
The SoS considers that the ES should not be a series of disparate reports 
and stresses the importance of considering inter-relationships between 
factors and cumulative impacts. 
Scheme Proposals  
The scheme parameters will need to be clearly defined in the draft DCO 
and therefore in the accompanying ES which should support the 
application as described. The SoS is not able to entertain material changes 
to a project once an application is submitted. The SoS draws the attention 
of the applicant to the DCLG and the Planning Inspectorate’s published 
advice on the preparation of a draft DCO and accompanying application 
documents. 
Flexibility  
The SoS acknowledges that the EIA process is iterative, and therefore the 
proposals may change and evolve. For example, there may be changes to 
the scheme design in response to consultation. Such changes should be 
addressed in the ES. However, at the time of the application for a DCO, 
any proposed scheme parameters should not be so wide ranging as to 
represent effectively different schemes. 
 
 
 
Appendix 3 
 
 
 
It is a matter for the applicant, in preparing an ES, to consider whether it 
is possible to assess robustly a range of impacts resulting from a large 
number of undecided parameters. The description of the project in the ES 
must not be so wide that it is insufficiently certain to comply with 
requirements of paragraph 17 of Schedule 4 Part 1 of the EIA Regulations. 
The Rochdale Envelope principle (see R v Rochdale MBC ex parte Tew 
(1999) and R v Rochdale MBC ex parte Milne (2000)) is an accepted way 
of dealing with uncertainty in preparing development applications. The 
applicant’s attention is drawn to the Planning Inspectorate’s Advice Note 9 
‘Rochdale Envelope’ which is available on the Advice Note’s page of the 
National Infrastructure Planning website.  
The applicant should make every attempt to narrow the range of options 
and explain clearly in the ES which elements of the scheme have yet to be 
finalised and provide the reasons. Where some flexibility is sought and the 
precise details are not known, the applicant should assess the maximum 
potential adverse impacts the project could have to ensure that the 
project as it may be constructed has been properly assessed.  
The ES should be able to confirm that any changes to the development 
within any proposed parameters would not result in significant impacts not 
previously identified and assessed. The maximum and other dimensions of 
the project should be clearly described in the ES, with appropriate 
justification. It will also be important to consider choice of materials, 
colour and the form of the structures and of any buildings. Lighting 
proposals should also be described. 
Scope 
The SoS recommends that the physical scope of the study areas should be 
identified under all the environmental topics and should be sufficiently 
robust in order to undertake the assessment. The extent of the study 
areas should be on the basis of recognised professional guidance, 
whenever such guidance is available. The study areas should also be 
agreed with the relevant consultees and local authorities and, where this 
is not possible, this should be stated clearly in the ES and a reasoned 
justification given. The scope should also cover the breadth of the topic 
area and the temporal scope, and these aspects should be described and 
justified. 
Physical Scope 
In general the SoS recommends that the physical scope for the EIA should 
be determined in the light of: 
 
the nature of the proposal being considered 
 
the relevance in terms of the specialist topic  
 
the breadth of the topic 
 
 
 
Appendix 3 
 
 
 
the physical extent of any surveys or the study area, and 
 
the potential significant impacts. 
The SoS recommends that the physical scope of the study areas should be 
identified for each of the environmental topics and should be sufficiently 
robust in order to undertake the assessment. This should include at least 
the whole of the application site, and include all offsite works. For certain 
topics, such as landscape and transport, the study area will need to be 
wider. The extent of the study areas should be on the basis of recognised 
professional guidance and best practice, whenever this is available, and 
determined by establishing the physical extent of the likely impacts. The 
study areas should also be agreed with the relevant consultees and, 
where this is not possible, this should be stated clearly in the ES and a 
reasoned justification given.  
Breadth of the Topic Area 
The ES should explain the range of matters to be considered under each 
topic and this may respond partly to the type of project being considered.  
If the range considered is drawn narrowly then a justification for the 
approach should be provided. 
Temporal Scope 
The assessment should consider: 
 
environmental impacts during construction works 
 
environmental impacts on completion/operation of the project 
 
where appropriate, environmental impacts a suitable number of 
years after completion of the project (for example, in order to allow 
for traffic growth or maturing of any landscape proposals), and 
 
environmental impacts during decommissioning. 
In terms of decommissioning, the SoS acknowledges that the further into 
the future any assessment is made, the less reliance may be placed on 
the outcome. However, the purpose of such a long term assessment, as 
well as to enable the decommissioning of the works to be taken into 
account, is to encourage early consideration as to how structures can be 
taken down. The purpose of this is to seek to minimise disruption, to re-
use materials and to restore the site or put it to a suitable new use. The 
SoS encourages consideration of such matters in the ES. 
The SoS recommends that these matters should be set out clearly in the 
ES and that the suitable time period for the assessment should be agreed 
with the relevant statutory consultees.  
The SoS recommends that throughout the ES a standard terminology for 
time periods should be defined, such that for example, ‘short term’ always 
refers to the same period of time.   
 
 
 
Appendix 3 
 
 
Baseline 
The SoS recommends that the baseline should describe the position from 
which the impacts of the project are measured. The baseline should be 
chosen carefully and, whenever possible, be consistent between topics. 
The identification of a single baseline is to be welcomed in terms of the 
approach to the assessment, although it is recognised that this may not 
always be possible. 
The SoS recommends that the baseline environment should be clearly 
explained in the ES, including any dates of surveys, and care should be 
taken to ensure that all the baseline data remains relevant and up to date.  
For each of the environmental topics, the data source(s) for the baseline 
should be set out together with any survey work undertaken with the 
dates.  The timing and scope of all surveys should be agreed with the 
relevant statutory bodies and appropriate consultees, wherever possible.   
The baseline situation and the project should be described within the 
context of the site and any other proposals in the vicinity. 
Identification of Impacts and Method Statement 
Legislation and Guidelines 
In terms of the EIA methodology, the SoS recommends that reference 
should be made to best practice and any standards, guidelines and 
legislation that have been used to inform the assessment. This should 
include guidelines prepared by relevant professional bodies. 
In terms of other regulatory regimes, the SoS recommends that relevant 
legislation and all permit and licences required should be listed in the ES 
where relevant to each topic. This information should also be submitted 
with the application in accordance with the APFP Regulations. 
In terms of assessing the impacts, the ES should approach all relevant 
planning and environmental policy – local, regional and national (and 
where appropriate international) – in a consistent manner. 
Assessment of Effects and Impact Significance 
The EIA Regulations require the identification of the ‘likely significant 
effects of the development on the environment’ (Schedule 4 Part 1 
paragraph 20). 
As a matter of principle, the SoS applies the precautionary approach to 
follow the Court’s4 reasoning in judging ‘significant effects’. In other words 
                                       
4 See Landelijke Vereniging tot Behoud van de Waddenzee and Nederlandse 
Vereniging tot Bescherming van  Vogels v Staatssecretris van Landbouw 
(Waddenzee Case No C 127/02/2004) 
 
 
 
Appendix 3 
 
 
‘likely to affect’ will be taken as meaning that there is a probability or risk 
that the project will have an effect, and not that a development will 
definitely have an effect. 
The SoS considers it is imperative for the ES to define the meaning of 
‘significant’ in the context of each of the specialist topics and for 
significant impacts to be clearly identified. The SoS recommends that the 
criteria should be set out fully and that the ES should set out clearly the 
interpretation of ‘significant’ in terms of each of the EIA topics. 
Quantitative criteria should be used where available. The SoS considers 
that this should also apply to the consideration of cumulative impacts and 
impact inter-relationships. 
The SoS recognises that the way in which each element of the 
environment may be affected by the project can be approached in a 
number of ways. However it considers that it would be helpful, in terms of 
ease of understanding and in terms of clarity of presentation, to consider 
the impact assessment in a similar manner for each of the specialist topic 
areas. The SoS recommends that a common format should be applied 
where possible.  
Inter-relationships between environmental factors 
The inter-relationship between aspects of the environments likely to be 
significantly affected is a requirement of the EIA Regulations (see 
Schedule 4 Part 1 of the EIA Regulations). These occur where a number of 
separate impacts, e.g. noise and air quality, affect a single receptor such 
as fauna. 
The SoS considers that the inter-relationships between factors must be 
assessed in order to address the environmental impacts of the proposal as 
a whole. This will help to ensure that the ES is not a series of separate 
reports collated into one document, but rather a comprehensive 
assessment drawing together the environmental impacts of the project. 
This is particularly important when considering impacts in terms of any 
permutations or parameters to the project. 
Cumulative Impacts  
The potential cumulative impacts with other major developments will need 
to be identified, as required by the Directive. The significance of such 
impacts should be shown to have been assessed against the baseline 
position (which would include built and operational development). In 
assessing cumulative impacts, other major development should be 
identified through consultation with the local planning authorities and 
other relevant authorities on the basis of those that are: 
 
projects that are under construction 
 
permitted application(s) not yet implemented 
 
submitted application(s) not yet determined  
 
all refusals subject to appeal procedures not yet determined  
                                                                                                              
 
 
 
 
Appendix 3 
 
 
 
projects on the National Infrastructure’s programme of projects, and 
 
projects identified in the relevant development plan (and emerging 
development plans - with appropriate weight being given as they 
move closer to adoption) recognising that much information on any 
relevant proposals will be limited. 
Details should be provided in the ES, including the types of development, 
location and key aspects that may affect the EIA and how these have been 
taken into account as part of the assessment.   
The SoS recommends that offshore wind farms should also take account 
of any offshore licensed and consented activities in the area, for the 
purposes of assessing cumulative effects, through consultation with the 
relevant licensing/consenting bodies. 
For the purposes of identifying any cumulative effects with other 
developments in the area, applicants should also consult consenting 
bodies in other EU states to assist in identifying those developments (see 
commentary on Transboundary Effects below). 
Related Development 
The ES should give equal prominence to any development which is related 
to the project to ensure that all the impacts of the proposal are assessed.   
The SoS recommends that the applicant should distinguish between the 
project for which development consent will be sought and any other 
development. This distinction should be clear in the ES.  
Alternatives 
The ES must set out an outline of the main alternatives studied by the 
applicant and provide an indication of the main reasons for the applicant’s 
choice, taking account of the environmental effect (Schedule 4 Part 1 
paragraph 18). 
Matters should be included, such as inter alia alternative design options 
and alternative mitigation measures. The justification for the final choice 
and evolution of the scheme development should be made clear.  Where 
other sites have been considered, the reasons for the final choice should 
be addressed.  
The SoS advises that the ES should give sufficient attention to the 
alternative forms and locations for the off-site proposals, where 
appropriate, and justify the needs and choices made in terms of the form 
of the development proposed and the sites chosen. 
 
 
 
Appendix 3 
 
 
Mitigation Measures  
Mitigation measures may fall into certain categories namely: avoid; 
reduce; compensate or enhance (see Schedule 4 Part 1 paragraph 21); 
and should be identified as such in the specialist topics. Mitigation 
measures should not be developed in isolation as they may relate to more 
than one topic area. For each topic, the ES should set out any mitigation 
measures required to prevent, reduce and where possible offset any 
significant adverse effects, and to identify any residual effects with 
mitigation in place. Any proposed mitigation should be discussed and 
agreed with the relevant consultees. 
The effectiveness of mitigation should be apparent. Only mitigation 
measures which are a firm commitment and can be shown to be 
deliverable should be taken into account as part of the assessment. 
It would be helpful if the mitigation measures proposed could be cross 
referred to specific provisions and/or requirements proposed within the 
draft development consent order. This could be achieved by means of 
describing the mitigation measures proposed either in each of the 
specialist reports or collating these within a summary section on 
mitigation. 
The SoS advises that it is considered best practice to outline in the ES, the 
structure of the environmental management and monitoring plan and 
safety procedures which will be adopted during construction and operation 
and may be adopted during decommissioning. 
Cross References and Interactions 
The SoS recommends that all the specialist topics in the ES should cross 
reference their text to other relevant disciplines. Interactions between the 
specialist topics is essential to the production of a robust assessment, as 
the ES should not be a collection of separate specialist topics, but a 
comprehensive assessment of the environmental impacts of the proposal 
and how these impacts can be mitigated. 
As set out in EIA Regulations Schedule 4 Part 1 paragraph 23, the ES 
should include an indication of any technical difficulties (technical 
deficiencies or lack of know-how) encountered by the applicant in 
compiling the required information. 
Consultation 
The SoS recommends that any changes to the scheme design in response 
to consultation should be addressed in the ES. 
It is recommended that the applicant provides preliminary environmental 
information (PEI) (this term is defined in the EIA Regulations under 
regulation 2 ‘Interpretation’) to the local authorities.  
Consultation with the local community should be carried out in accordance 
with the SoCC which will state how the applicant intends to consult on the 
 
 
 
Appendix 3 
 
 
preliminary environmental information (PEI). This PEI could include results 
of detailed surveys and recommended mitigation actions. Where effective 
consultation is carried out in accordance with Section 47 of the Planning 
Act, this could usefully assist the applicant in the EIA process – for 
example the local community may be able to identify possible mitigation 
measures to address the impacts identified in the PEI. Attention is drawn 
to the duty upon applicants under Section 50 of the Planning Act to have 
regard to the guidance on pre-application consultation. 
Transboundary Effects 
The SoS recommends that consideration should be given in the ES to any 
likely significant effects on the environment of another Member State of 
the European Economic Area. In particular, the SoS recommends 
consideration should be given to discharges to the air and water and to 
potential impacts on migratory species and to impacts on shipping and 
fishing areas.  
The Applicant’s attention is also drawn to the Planning Inspectorate’s 
Advice Note 12 ‘Development with significant transboundary impacts 
consultation’ which is available on the Advice Notes Page of the National 
Infrastructure Planning website 
Summary Tables 
The SoS recommends that in order to assist the decision making process, 
the applicant may wish to consider the use of tables: 
Table X 
to identify and collate the residual impacts after mitigation on 
the 
basis 
of 
specialist 
topics, 
inter-relationships 
and 
cumulative impacts. 
Table XX 
to demonstrate how the assessment has taken account of 
this Opinion and other responses to consultation.  
Table XXX to set out the mitigation measures proposed, as well as 
assisting the reader, the SoS considers that this would also 
enable the applicant to cross refer mitigation to specific 
provisions proposed to be 
included 
within 
the 
draft 
Development Consent Order. 
Table XXXX to cross reference where details in the HRA (where one is 
provided) such as descriptions of sites and their locations, 
together with any mitigation or compensation measures, are 
to be found in the ES. 
Terminology and Glossary of Technical Terms 
The SoS recommends that a common terminology should be adopted. This 
will help to ensure consistency and ease of understanding for the decision 
making process. For example, ‘the site’ should be defined and used only in 
 
 
 
Appendix 3 
 
 
terms of this definition so as to avoid confusion with, for example, the 
wider site area or the surrounding site.  
A glossary of technical terms should be included in the ES.  
Presentation 
The ES should have all of its paragraphs numbered, as this makes 
referencing easier as well as accurate.  
Appendices must be clearly referenced, again with all paragraphs 
numbered.  
All figures and drawings, photographs and photomontages should be 
clearly referenced.  Figures should clearly show the proposed site 
application boundary. 
Bibliography 
A bibliography should be included in the ES. The author, date and 
publication title should be included for all references.  All publications 
referred to within the technical reports should be included. 
Non Technical Summary 
The EIA Regulations require a Non Technical Summary (EIA Regulations 
Schedule 4 Part 1 paragraph 22). This should be a summary of the 
assessment in simple language. It should be supported by appropriate 
figures, photographs and photomontages. 
 
 
 
