 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SCOPING OPINION  
Proposed Abergelli Power 
Project  
 
 
 
 
 
August 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scoping Opinion  
For Abergelli Power Project  
 
 
 
 
 
 
CONTENTS 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
1.0 
INTRODUCTION .................................................................... 1 
2.0 
THE PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT ............................................ 4 
3.0 
EIA APPROACH AND TOPIC AREAS ..................................... 14 
4.0 
OTHER INFORMATION ........................................................ 28 
APPENDIX 1 – LIST OF CONSULTEES 
APPENDIX 2 – RESPONDENTS TO CONSULTATION AND COPIES OF 
REPLIES 
APPENDIX 3 – PRESENTATION OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL 
STATEMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scoping Opinion  
for Abergelli Power Project 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
This is the Scoping Opinion (the Opinion) provided by the Secretary of 
State in respect of the content of the Environmental Statement for 
Abergelli Power Project.  
This report sets out the Secretary of State’s opinion on the basis of the 
information provided in the report prepared by Abergelli Power Limited 
(‘the applicant’) entitled Abergelli Power Project, Environmental Impact 
Assessment Scoping Report June 2014 (‘the  Scoping Report’). The 
Opinion can only reflect the proposals as currently described by the 
applicant.  
The Secretary of State has consulted on the Scoping Report and the 
responses received have been taken into account in adopting this Opinion. 
The Secretary of State is satisfied that the topic areas identified in the 
Scoping Report encompass those matters identified in Schedule 4, Part 1, 
paragraph 19 of the Infrastructure Planning (Environmental Impact 
Assessment) Regulations 2009 (as amended). 
The Secretary of State draws attention both to the general points and 
those made in respect of each of the specialist topic areas in this Opinion. 
The main potential issues identified are:  
 
Air Quality 
 
Landscape and Visual 
 
Water Quality and Resources 
Matters are not scoped out unless specifically addressed and justified by 
the applicant, and confirmed as being scoped out by the Secretary of 
State. 
The Secretary of State notes the potential need to carry out an 
assessment under the Habitats Regulations1. 
                                       
1 The Conservation of Habitats and Species Regulations 2010 (as amended) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scoping Opinion for Abergelli Power Project 
  
 
1 
1.0 INTRODUCTION 
Background 
1.1 
On 26 June 2014, the Secretary of State (SoS) received the 
Scoping Report submitted by Abergelli Power Limited under 
Regulation 8 of the Infrastructure Planning (Environmental Impact 
Assessment) Regulations 2009 (SI 2263) (as amended) (the EIA 
Regulations) in order to request a scoping opinion for the proposed 
Abergelli Power Project (‘the Project’). This Opinion is made in 
response to this request and should be read in conjunction with 
the applicant’s Scoping Report. 
1.2 
The applicant has formally provided notification under Regulation 
6(1)(b) of the EIA Regulations that it proposes to provide an ES in 
respect of the proposed development. Therefore, in accordance 
with Regulation 4(2)(a) of the EIA Regulations, the proposed 
development is determined to be EIA development. 
1.3 
The EIA Regulations enable an applicant, before making an 
application for an order granting development consent, to ask the 
SoS to state in writing their formal opinion (a ‘scoping opinion’) on 
the information to be provided in the environmental statement 
(ES).   
1.4 
Before adopting a scoping opinion the SoS must take into account: 
(a) the specific characteristics of the particular development; 
(b) the specific characteristics of the development of the type 
concerned; and 
(c) environmental 
features 
likely 
to 
be 
affected 
by 
the 
development’. 
(EIA Regulation 8 (9)) 
1.5 
This Opinion sets out what information the SoS considers should 
be included in the ES for the proposed development. The Opinion 
has taken account of:  
i 
the EIA Regulations  
ii 
the nature and scale of the proposed development  
iii 
the nature of the receiving environment, and 
iv 
current best practice in the preparation of environmental 
statements.  
 
Scoping Opinion for Abergelli Power Project 
  
 
2 
1.6 
The SoS has also taken account of the responses received from 
the statutory consultees (see Appendix 2 of this Opinion). The 
matters addressed by the applicant have been carefully considered 
and use has been made of professional judgement and experience 
in order to adopt this Opinion. It should be noted that when it 
comes to consider the ES, the SoS will take account of relevant 
legislation and guidelines (as appropriate). The SoS will not be 
precluded from requiring additional information if it is considered 
necessary in connection with the ES submitted with that 
application when considering the application for a development 
consent order (DCO).  
1.7 
This Opinion should not be construed as implying that the SoS 
agrees with the information or comments provided by the 
applicant in their request for an opinion from the SoS. In 
particular, comments from the SoS in this Opinion are without 
prejudice to any decision taken by the SoS (on submission of the 
application) that any development identified by the applicant is 
necessarily to be treated as part of a nationally significant 
infrastructure project (NSIP), or associated development, or 
development that does not require development consent. 
1.8 
Regulation 8(3) of the EIA Regulations states that a request for a 
scoping opinion must include:  
(a) ‘a plan sufficient to identify the land; 
(b) a brief description of the nature and purpose of the 
development and of its possible effects on the environment; 
and 
(c) such other information or representations as the person 
making the request may wish to provide or make’. 
(EIA Regulation 8 (3)) 
1.9 
The SoS considers that this has been provided in the applicant’s 
Scoping Report. 
The Secretary of State’s Consultation 
1.10 The SoS has a duty under Regulation 8(6) of the EIA Regulations 
to consult widely before adopting a scoping opinion. A full list of 
the consultation bodies is provided at Appendix 1. The list has 
been compiled by the SoS under their duty to notify the consultees 
in accordance with Regulation 9(1)(a). The applicant should note 
that whilst the SoS’s list can inform their consultation, it should 
not be relied upon for that purpose.   
 
 
Scoping Opinion for Abergelli Power Project 
  
 
3 
1.11 The list of respondents who replied within the statutory timeframe 
and whose comments have been taken into account in the 
preparation of this Opinion is provided at Appendix 2 along with 
copies of their comments, to which the applicant should refer in 
undertaking the EIA. 
1.12 The 
ES 
submitted 
by 
the 
applicant 
should 
demonstrate 
consideration of the points raised by the consultation bodies. It is 
recommended that a table is provided in the ES summarising the 
scoping responses from the consultation bodies and how they are, 
or are not, addressed in the ES. 
1.13 Any consultation responses received after the statutory deadline 
for receipt of comments will not be taken into account within this 
Opinion. Late responses will be forwarded to the applicant and will 
be made available on the Planning Inspectorate’s website. The 
applicant should also give due consideration to those comments in 
carrying out the EIA. 
Structure of the Document 
1.14 This Opinion is structured as follows: 
Section 1 
Introduction 
Section 2 
The proposed development 
Section 3 
EIA approach and topic areas 
Section 4 
Other information. 
This Opinion is accompanied by the following Appendices: 
Appendix 1 List of consultees 
Appendix 2 Respondents to consultation and copies of replies 
Appendix 3 Presentation of the environmental statement. 
 
 
Scoping Opinion for Abergelli Power Project 
  
 
4 
2.0 THE PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT 
Introduction 
2.1 
The following is a summary of the information on the proposed 
development and its site and surroundings prepared by the 
applicant and included in their Scoping Report. The information 
has not been verified and it has been assumed that the 
information provided reflects the existing knowledge of the 
proposed development and the potential receptors/resources. 
The Applicant’s Information 
Overview of the proposed development 
2.2 
The proposed development would comprise a new Power 
Generation Plant, capable of providing an electrical capacity of up 
to 299MW. It would be fuelled by natural gas and connected to the 
National Grid. The proposal would be located on pastoral fields at 
Abergelli Farm, to the north of Swansea, in the City and County of 
Swansea, South West Wales.  
2.3 
The proposed development would comprise the following principal 
components (Section 1.1.2 of the Scoping Report):  
 
Generating equipment, including gas turbine generators and 
balance of plant (Simple Cycle Gas Turbine (SCGT)); 
 
New purpose built access road; 
 
A temporary construction compound (laydown area); 
 
New gas connection;  
 
New electrical connection. 
 
Description of the site and surrounding area  
The Application Site 
2.4 
The application site is located within an area of lowland farmland 
known locally as the ‘Welsh Gower’; approximately 1km south of 
Felindre, 760m west of Llwyncelyn and 1.4km north of 
Llangyfelach. Swansea lies approximately 5km to the south of the 
site. The site is roughly an ‘L’ shape and approximately 150ha in 
total, including the power generation plant site, and the electrical 
and gas connection opportunity areas. Three residential dwellings, 
Abergelli Farm, Abergelli fawr, and Lletty Morfil Farm are located 
within the site boundaries, as shown on Figure 2. 
   
Scoping Opinion for Abergelli Power Project 
  
 
5 
2.5 
The Scoping Report identifies that the land is currently used for 
sheep and horse grazing, along with horse training and breeding.  
Most of the farmland is agriculturally improved grassland and 
classified as Grade 4 agricultural land; but also contains significant 
areas of marshy grassland and scattered woodland and scrub. The 
fields are largely bound by fences, with one section of species-poor 
hedgerow running north of Abergelli Farm.  
2.6 
A gas Nation Transmission System (NTS) Pipeline and water 
pipelines cross the site, while the western part of the site 
encompasses two National Grid 400KV electrical substations and 
Felindre gas compressor substation. Areas of the site have been 
previously subject to various permissions for mineral extraction, 
inert landfill and other commercial activities.   
2.7 
The Afon Llan flows in a south-westerly direction to the west and 
south of the site. The site is primarily within EA Flood Zone 1, 
although a small area to the south east of the site appears to lie 
within Zones 2 and 3. A number of springs issue on the site, with 
their associated drainage ditches and streams running along the 
field boundaries and discharging into the Afon Llan. Four water 
bodies have been identified within the survey site (see Appendix 
A: Preliminary Ecological Appraisal, paragraphs 4.24, 4.25 and 
4.26). Numerous public footpaths, bridleways and tracks run 
through the site.  
2.8 
The geology of the site is characterised by boulder clay and the 
underlying Grovesend Beds, Upper Carboniferous sandstones and 
thin coals; overlain by glacial sand and gravel, alluvium and peat. 
The geology is overlain by raw gley and brown soils.  
2.9 
The Scoping Report states that the land within the power 
generation plant site (See figure 1: Project Site Plan) is 
approximately 90m Above Ordnance Datum (AOD), gently sloping 
downwards in a southerly direction. The wider application site also 
appears to be gently sloping.  
2.10 Three Sites of Importance for Nature Conservation (SINCs) lie 
partially within the site (Rhyd-Y-Pandy Valley Grasslands, Warn 
Garn Wen and Llety Morphil). A further two SINCs are adjacent to 
the site, with Rhos Fawr SINC to the north, and Felindre 
Grasslands SINC to the south. The majority of woodland within the 
site is designated as Ancient Woodland.  
2.11 There is potential habitat on the site to support European 
Protected Species, including bats, great crested newts, dormice 
and otters. The site could also support Barn Owls (Schedule 1 
species) and nationally protected species, including reptiles, 
badgers and water voles. Breeding birds may also use the site. 
Figures 2a and 2b of the Preliminary Ecological Appraisal illustrate 
the areas on and around the site which have the potential to 
support protected species.  
Scoping Opinion for Abergelli Power Project 
  
 
6 
2.12 Following the results of the Phase 1 Habitat Survey, further Phase 
2 protected species surveys are currently being carried out. 
2.13 The invasive species Japanese knotweed and Himalayan balsam 
are present on the site.  
The Surrounding Area 
2.14 The area surrounding the application site is rural, but with a 
substantial amount of utilities infrastructure. A water treatment 
works is located immediately to the northwest, with the Cefn 
Betingau Solar Park to the east. A network of electricity pylons, to 
the south west of Abergelli Farm, link to the National Grid 
electrical substations. The surrounding habitats are similar to 
those on site, with areas of improved and marshy grassland 
interspersed with areas of woodland.  
2.15 The closest Noise Sensitive Receptors (NSRs) are the settlements 
of Morriston, Pant-lasau, Llwyncelyn and Felindre, all within 1km 
of the site. The Scoping Report also identifies 19 isolated dwellings 
and farmsteads outside of these settlements but within 1km of the 
site.  
2.16 The following nature conservation sites have been identified within 
10km of the site: 
 
Nant Y Crimp Site of Special Scientific Interest (SSSI) – 
approximately 2.5km from the site.  
 
Penllergaer Railway Cutting SSSI – approximately 2.8km from 
the site.  
 
Penplas Grasslands SSSI – approximately 3.2km from the site. 
 
Glais Moraine SSSI – approximately 4km from the site. 
 
Cadle Heath Local Nature Reserve (LNR) – approximately 
4.5km from the site.  
 
Camarthen Bay and Estuaries Special Area of Conservation 
(SAC) – approximately 7.2km from the site.  
 
Crymlyn Bog SAC and Ramsar – approximately 7.3km from the 
site.  
 
Burry Inlet Special Protection Area (SPA) and Ramsar (within 
the boundary of the Camarthen Bay and Estuaries SAC) – 
approximately 9.7km from the site. 
 
 
Scoping Opinion for Abergelli Power Project 
  
 
7 
2.17 The Burry Inlet SPA and Ramsar have been designated for their 
avian assemblage, including wintering oystercatcher, northern 
pintail, common redshank and red knot. The Camarthan Bay and 
Estuaries SAC is designated for a number of Annex I habitats, 
including sandbanks, estuaries, mudflats, sandflats; while the 
Crymlyn Bog SAC is designated for Annex I habitats including 
transition mires and quaking bogs, calcareous fens and alluvial 
forests. 
2.18 There are 23 SINCs within 2km of the site. The locations and 
details of these features are identified in paragraph 4.7 of the 
Preliminary Ecological Appraisal.  
2.19  The Scoping Report identifies 17 Scheduled Ancient Monuments 
(SAMs), a Grade I listed building, 7 Grade II* listed buildings, 
three Grade II Registered Parks and Gardens and 2 Conservation 
Areas within 5km of the site. The locations of these features are 
identified on Figure 3 of the Scoping Report. In addition, 47 Grade 
II listed buildings are located within 5km of the site.  
2.20 The nearest Air Quality Management Area (AQMA) is Swansea Air 
Quality Management Area 2010, located in the Lower Swansea 
Valley, approximately 4.5km from the site. It has been declared 
primarily on the basis of traffic related nitrogen dioxide (NO2).   
Description of the proposed development  
2.21 The proposed development would operate as a SCGT peaking 
plant, fuelled by natural gas and capable of producing electricity 
up to 299MW. To achieve 299MW, between one and five gas 
turbine generators would be built, with up to five exhaust gas flue 
stacks.  
2.22 The gas turbine generators would comprise the following 
components:  
 Inlet air filter; 
 Air compressor; 
 Combustion chamber; 
 Power turbine(s); 
 Exhaust silencer. 
2.23 On entering the gas turbine(s), air would be compressed and 
natural gas injected into the air. The natural gas would then burn 
in the combustion chamber, before expanding across the blades of 
the gas turbine, driving the electrical generators to produce 
energy.  
Scoping Opinion for Abergelli Power Project 
  
 
8 
2.24 The waste gases and heat would then be released into the 
atmosphere via between one and five stacks. The stack(s) would 
contain equipment to reduce the emissions released into the 
atmosphere.  
2.25 In order to adequately disperse emissions and to meet legislative 
air quality targets, a study would be undertaken to determine the 
minimum height of the stack(s). 
2.26 The maximum area for the generating equipment site would be 
approximately 6ha. Depending on its final design, the generating 
equipment may be sited in a number of locations within this area 
(see Scoping Report, Figure 1: Project Site Plan). The detailed 
dimensions of the main plant items, which would be present in the 
generating equipment site, are stated in paragraph 3.3.15 of the 
Scoping Report. These figures indicate that the tallest element of 
the proposal (the stack(s)) would be a maximum of 60m in height. 
2.27 The new gas connection would connect the generating equipment 
to a suitable fuel source, and would comprise a new underground 
gas pipeline connection and two above ground installations. The 
gas connection would be situated within the Gas Connection 
Opportunity Area as identified on Figure 1: Project Site Plan; with 
the exact location not yet decided. Termination of the gas 
connection would be at a Pipeline Inspection Gauge (PIG) Trap 
Facility (PTF) on the generating equipment site; incorporating a 
PIG receiving facility, emergency control valve (possible) and 
isolation valves.  
2.28 The new electrical connection would comprise new electrical 
circuits (either in the form of an underground cable or overhead 
line) to allow power to be exported from the generating equipment 
to the National Grid. The electrical connection would be situated 
within the Electrical Connection Opportunity Area as identified on 
Figure 1: Project Site Plan; with the exact location not yet decided.  
2.29 The final choice of the gas and electrical connection routes would 
be decided following further consultation and more thorough 
assessments of constraints and environmental impacts.  
2.30 To accommodate the storage of plant and equipment during the 
construction phase, a temporary laydown area would be provided 
adjacent to the generating equipment site store. It is not proposed 
to allocate any land for this purpose beyond the construction 
phase. The exact location of the laydown area is not identified 
within the Scoping Report.  
 
 
 
Scoping Opinion for Abergelli Power Project 
  
 
9 
Alternatives  
2.31 The following technology options were also considered for the 
generator plant: Combined Cycle Gas Turbine (CCGT) plant and 
Reciprocating Gas Engines (RGE) plant. SCGT was considered the 
most suitable technology choice for environmental, technical and 
financial reasons, as detailed in paragraph 3.6.4 of the Scoping 
Report. 
Proposed access  
2.32 The proposal site would be accessed from Junction 46 of the M4, 
via one of two routes currently being considered. Access Road 
Option 1 would be from the north via the Rhyd-y-pandy Road, 
following the access road west of Brynheulog past Abergelli Farm. 
Access Road Option 2 would be from the west via the B4489, 
along the access road to the National Grid electrical substations 
and then via a new access road to be constructed as part of the 
proposal. Both access options are illustrated on Figure 1 of the 
Scoping Report: Project Site Plan.  
Construction  
2.33 Construction and commissioning of the project would take 
approximately 22 months.  
2.34 The main works would be the removal of hard standing, 
excavation and site levelling for new foundations, piling (if 
required) and the laying of the gas and electricity connections.   
2.35 Construction is expected to employ between 140 and 250 workers.  
2.36 A construction programme has not been included in the Scoping 
Report. The Scoping Report states that the ES will provide details 
of the construction programme, including construction activities, 
methods 
and 
working 
hours. 
An 
outline 
Construction 
Environmental Management Plan (CEMP) would be drafted and 
appended to the ES, providing details of specific mitigation 
measures required to reduce the construction related impacts.  
Operation and maintenance 
2.37 Once operational, the proposed development would generate up to 
15 full time jobs, with staff working in shifts.  
2.38 The generating equipment would operate for up to 1,500 hours 
per year.  
2.39 The power generation plant would have an operational life of 25 
years, after which time it would be decommissioned or re-
powered.  
Scoping Opinion for Abergelli Power Project 
  
 
10 
Decommissioning 
2.40 Decommissioning of the project would involve the removal of all 
power generation items, and the restoration of the site to a similar 
condition as before the development took place. This process 
would take approximately 22 months.  
2.41 Some underground structures, such as the gas and electrical 
connections, may be left in situ for the purpose of avoiding any 
adverse environmental impacts arising from their removal. Where 
possible, items would be reused or recycled.  
2.42 The decommissioning phase is expected to employ between 140 
and 250 workers. 
The Secretary of State’s Comments  
Description of the application site and surrounding area  
2.43 In addition to detailed baseline information to be provided within 
topic specific chapters of the ES, the SoS would expect the ES to 
include a section that summarises the site and surroundings. This 
would identify the context of the proposed development, any 
relevant designations and sensitive receptors. This section should 
identify land that could be directly or indirectly affected by the 
proposed development and any auxiliary facilities, landscaping 
areas and potential off site mitigation or compensation schemes. 
2.44 The ES should include a clear description of the application site 
which is to be the subject of the DCO, including detailed land 
levels, existing vegetation species, hard surfaces and the location 
of existing buildings. The ES should confirm if the application site 
has been previously developed, and if so, whether it has been 
subject to any remediation works.                      
2.45 The Scoping Report did not detail whether any areas of the site 
are at risk from flooding. EA data indicates that an area to the 
south west of the application site is within EA Flood Zones 2/3. 
The SoS notes that the ES is to contain a Flood Consequences 
document. This document should include a description of which 
areas of the site are at risk from flooding and the exact locations 
of all water courses on site, including springs, streams and 
drainage ditches.                                                                                                
Description of the proposed development  
2.46 The applicant should ensure that the description of the proposed 
development that is being applied for is as accurate and firm as 
possible as this will form the basis of the environmental impact 
assessment. It is understood that at this stage in the evolution of 
the scheme the description of the proposals and even the location 
of the site may not be confirmed.  
Scoping Opinion for Abergelli Power Project 
  
 
11 
The applicant should be aware however, that the description of the 
development in the ES must be sufficiently certain to meet the 
requirements of paragraph 17 of Schedule 4 Part 1 of the EIA 
Regulations and there should therefore be more certainty by the 
time the ES is submitted with the DCO.  
2.47 If a draft DCO is to be submitted, the applicant should clearly 
define what elements of the proposed development are integral to 
the NSIP and which is ‘associated development’ under the Planning 
Act 2008 (PA 2008) or is an ancillary matter.   
2.48 Any proposed works and/or infrastructure required as associated 
development, or as an ancillary matter, (whether on or off-site) 
should be considered as part of an integrated approach to 
environmental assessment.  
2.49 The SoS recommends that the ES should include a clear 
description of all aspects of the proposed development, at the 
construction, operation and decommissioning stages, and include: 
 
Land use requirements; 
 
Site preparation; 
 
Construction processes and methods; 
 
Transport routes; 
 
Operational requirements including the main characteristics 
of the production process and the nature and quantity of 
materials used; 
 
Maintenance activities including any potential environmental 
impacts; 
 
Emissions - water, air and soil pollution, noise, vibration, 
light, heat, radiation. 
2.50 The environmental effects of all wastes to be processed and 
removed from the site should be addressed. The ES will need to 
identify and describe the control processes and mitigation 
procedures for storing and transporting waste off site. All waste 
types should be quantified and classified.  
2.51 The area identified on Figure 1 of the Scoping Report as ‘Power 
Generation Plant Site’ appears to be referred to as ‘Generating 
Equipment Site’ in other parts of the Scoping Report, for example 
in paragraph 3.3.11. To ensure clarity, it is requested that this 
area is consistently referred to by the same description.  
 
 
Scoping Opinion for Abergelli Power Project 
  
 
12 
2.52 When considering Figure 3 of the Scoping Report: Indicative 
Environmentally Sensitive Receptors, the SoS notes that due to 
the chosen colours, it is difficult to distinguish the Scheduled 
Monuments from some other features (e.g. SINCs, water bodies 
and LNRs). The ES should ensure to provide clearly distinguishable 
colours/symbols on all maps and figures, in order to ensure that 
specific features can be easily identified. 
Alternatives  
2.53 Schedule 4 Part 1 of the EIA Regulations requires that the 
applicant provides ‘An outline of the main alternatives studied by 
the applicant and an indication of the main reasons for the 
applicant’s choice, taking into account the environmental effects’ 
(See Appendix 3). The SoS welcomes the consideration of 
alternative technology choices included in the Scoping Report 
(paragraph 3.6.4) and recommends these details are included in 
the ES. In addition, the ES should also provide details of other 
locations considered for the Power Generation Plant.  
Flexibility  
2.54 The applicant’s attention is drawn to Advice Note 9 ‘Using the 
‘Rochdale 
Envelope’ 
which 
is 
available 
on 
the 
Planning 
Inspectorate’s website and to the ‘Flexibility’ section in Appendix 3 
of this Opinion which provides additional details on the 
recommended approach.  
2.55 The SoS notes, from the comments in paragraph 3.3.14 of the 
Scoping Report, that the detailed design and location of the power 
station is still being developed. The applicant should make every 
attempt to narrow the range of options and explain clearly in the 
ES which elements of the scheme have yet to be finalised and 
provide the reasons. At the time of application, any proposed 
scheme parameters should not be so wide ranging as to represent 
effectively different schemes. The scheme parameters will need to 
be clearly defined in the draft DCO and therefore in the 
accompanying ES. It is a matter for the applicant, in preparing an 
ES, to consider whether it is possible to robustly assess a range of 
impacts resulting from a large number of undecided parameters. 
The description of the proposed development in the ES must not 
be so wide that it is insufficiently certain to comply with the 
requirements of paragraph 17 of Schedule 4 Part 1 of the EIA 
Regulations. 
2.56 It should be noted that if the proposed development changes 
substantially during the EIA process, prior to application 
submission, the applicant may wish to consider the need to 
request a new scoping opinion. 
 
Scoping Opinion for Abergelli Power Project 
  
 
13 
Proposed access 
2.57 The ES should detail the proposed access routes for both 
construction and operational traffic. 
Construction  
2.58 The Secretary of State notes that no information has been 
provided in the Scoping Request regarding the size and exact 
location of the temporary laydown area. Whilst is it appreciated 
that this information may not be available at this stage in the 
evolution of the project, applicants are reminded that this 
information will be required in the ES. 
2.59 The SoS considers that information on construction including: 
phasing of programme; construction methods and activities 
associated with each phase; siting of construction compounds 
(including on and off site); lighting equipment/requirements; and 
number, movements and parking of construction vehicles (both 
HGVs and staff) should be clearly indicated in the ES.  
Operation and maintenance 
2.60 Information on the operation and maintenance of the proposed 
development should be included in the ES and should cover but 
not be limited to such matters as:  the number of full/part-time 
jobs; the operational hours and if appropriate, shift patterns; the 
number and types of vehicle movements generated during the 
operational stage. 
Decommissioning 
2.61 In terms of decommissioning, the SoS acknowledges that the 
further into the future any assessment is made, the less reliance 
may be placed on the outcome. However, the purpose of such a 
long term assessment is to enable the decommissioning of the 
works to be taken into account in the design and use of materials 
such that structures can be taken down with the minimum of 
disruption. The process and methods of decommissioning should 
be considered and options presented in the ES. The SoS 
encourages consideration of such matters in the ES. 
2.62 The Scoping Report (paragraph 3.3.17) indicates that the design 
life of the power generation plant is 25 years. The SoS 
recommends that the EIA covers the life span of the proposed 
development, 
including 
construction, 
operation 
and 
decommissioning.  
Scoping Opinion for Abergelli Power Project 
  
 
14 
3.0 EIA APPROACH AND TOPIC AREAS 
Introduction 
3.1 
This section contains the SoS’s specific comments on the approach 
to the ES and topic areas as set out in the Scoping Report. General 
advice on the presentation of an ES is provided at Appendix 3 of 
this Opinion and should be read in conjunction with this Section.  
3.2 
Applicants are advised that the scope of the DCO application 
should be clearly addressed and assessed consistently within the 
ES.  
Environmental Statement (ES) - approach 
3.3 
The information provided in the Scoping Report sets out the 
proposed approach to the preparation of the ES. Whilst early 
engagement on the scope of the ES is to be welcomed, the SoS 
notes that the level of information provided at this stage is not 
always sufficient to allow for detailed comments from either the 
SoS or the consultees.  
3.4 
The SoS would suggest that the applicant ensures that appropriate 
consultation is undertaken with the relevant consultees in order to 
agree wherever possible the timing and relevance of survey work 
as well as the methodologies to be used. The SoS notes and 
welcomes the intention to finalise the scope of investigations in 
conjunction with on-going stakeholder liaison and consultation 
with the relevant regulatory authorities and their advisors. 
3.5 
The SoS recommends that the physical scope of the study areas 
should be identified under all the environmental topics and should 
be sufficiently robust in order to undertake the assessment. The 
extent of the study areas should be on the basis of recognised 
professional guidance, whenever such guidance is available. The 
study areas should also be agreed with the relevant consultees 
and, where this is not possible, this should be stated clearly in the 
ES and a reasoned justification given. The scope should also cover 
the breadth of the topic area and the temporal scope, and these 
aspects should be described and justified. 
Matters to be scoped out 
3.6 
The applicant has identified in the relevant sections of the Scoping 
Report the matters proposed to be ‘scoped out’. These include:  
 
Operational Air Quality Emissions of the Gas and Electrical 
Connections 
 
Operational Noise and Vibration Impacts of the Gas 
Connection 
Scoping Opinion for Abergelli Power Project 
  
 
15 
 
Operational Noise Impacts of the Electricity Connection 
 
Water Framework Directive (WFD) Report (pending NRW 
agreement)  
 
Drainage / water quality impacts of the gas and electricity 
connections during the operational and decommissioning 
phases. 
 
Visual impacts upon the Gower AONB 
3.7 
Matters are not scoped out unless specifically addressed and 
justified by the applicant, and confirmed as being scoped out by 
the SoS.   
3.8 
It is stated within the Scoping Report that it is not intended to 
include the operational air quality emissions of the gas and 
electrical 
connections 
as 
these 
sections 
of 
the 
proposed 
development would not produce any significant emissions during 
the operational phase of the development; the SoS agrees that 
these impacts can be scoped out of the assessment.  
3.9 
Within the Scoping Report it is stated that it is not intended to 
include the operational noise or vibration impacts of the gas 
connection as this aspect of the proposed development would not 
produce any significant noise or vibration emissions during the 
operational phase; the SoS agrees that these impacts can be 
scoped out of the assessment.  
3.10 It is stated within the Scoping Report that it is not intended to 
include the operational noise impacts of the electrical connection 
as this aspect of the proposed development would not produce any 
significant noise emissions during the operational phase. The SoS 
recommends that further justification be provided by the applicant 
for scoping out these potential effects, the SoS draws the attention 
of the applicant to the comments made by NRW in this respect.  
3.11 Within the Scoping Report it is stated that the need for a Water 
Framework Directive Report has been scoped out of the 
assessment, pending agreement from NRW, as the development is 
not predicted to have any significant effects on any key water 
bodies.  The SoS agrees that providing NRW indicates that no 
Water Framework Directive Report will be required for this 
development the provision of this report can be scoped out of the 
assessment.  
3.12 It is stated within the applicants scoping report that any impact on 
drainage or water quality caused by the gas or electrical 
connections during the operational and decommissioning phases of 
the development will be scoped out of the assessment, as no 
significant drainage or water quality impacts are predicted to occur 
as a result of the presence of the connections during these phases 
of the proposed development.  
Scoping Opinion for Abergelli Power Project 
  
 
16 
The SoS recommends that the applicant provides further 
information regarding the potential for any below ground 
connections to form pathways for the transport of pollutants which 
may result from previous use of the land. NRW noted that at least 
part of the site was previously used as landfill.  
3.13 Within the Scoping Report it is stated that visual impacts of the 
proposed development on the Gower Area of Outstanding Natural 
Beauty (AONB) will be scoped out of the assessment as the site is 
visually separated from the AONB by topography. The SoS expects 
that the ES should contain confirmation that the stacks required as 
part of the development, which will be up to 60m in height, will 
not be visible from the AONB. On the basis of providing such 
confirmation, the SoS agrees that these impacts may be scoped 
out of the assessment.  
3.14 Whilst the SoS has not agreed to scope out certain topics or 
matters within the Opinion on the basis of the information 
available at the time, this does not prevent the applicant from 
subsequently agreeing with the relevant consultees to scope 
matters out of the ES, where further evidence has been provided 
to justify this approach. This approach should be explained fully in 
the ES.        
3.15 In order to demonstrate that topics have not simply been 
overlooked, where topics are scoped out prior to submission of the 
DCO application, the ES should still explain the reasoning and 
justify the approach taken. 
National Policy Statements (NPSs) 
3.16 Sector specific NPSs are produced by the relevant Government 
Departments and set out national policy for nationally significant 
infrastructure projects (NSIPs). They provide the framework within 
which the Examining Authority will make their recommendations to 
the Secretary of State and include the Government’s objectives for 
the development of NSIPs.  
3.17 The relevant NPSs [EN-1, EN-2, EN-4 and EN-5] for the proposed 
development set out both the generic and technology-specific 
impacts that should be considered in the EIA for the proposed 
development. When undertaking the EIA, the applicant must have 
regard to both the generic and technology-specific impacts and 
identify how these impacts have been assessed in the ES.  
3.18 The Secretary of State must have regard to any matter that the 
Secretary of State thinks is important and relevant to the 
Secretary of State’s decision. This could include the draft NPS if 
the relevant NPS has not been formally designated. 
Scoping Opinion for Abergelli Power Project 
  
 
17 
Environmental Statement - Structure  
3.19 Section 4.2 of the Scoping Report sets out the proposed structure 
of the ES on which the applicant seeks the opinion of the SoS.  
3.20 The SoS notes that from the ES structure table (Scoping Report 
Table 4.1) that the EIA would cover a number of assessments 
under the broad headings of:  
 
Air Quality 
 
Noise and Vibration 
 
Ecology  
 
Water Quality and Resources 
 
Geology, Ground Conditions and Agriculture  
 
Landscape and Visual 
 
Traffic, Transport and Access 
 
Cultural Heritage and Archaeology; and 
 
Socio-Economics  
3.21 The SoS recommends that the ES should include a description of 
how waste generated by the proposed development will be dealt 
with.  The SoS also recommends that the potential impacts of 
electric and magnetic fields are addressed within the ES. The SoS 
draws the applicant’s attention to the comments of Public Health 
England on this subject.  
Topic Areas  
 Air Quality (see Scoping Report Section 5.3)  
3.22 The nearest Air Quality Management Area (AQMA) is Swansea 
AQMA; it lies approximately 4.5 km from the Project Site and has 
been declared primarily on the basis of traffic related nitrogen 
dioxide (NO2). The SoS considers that adverse change to air 
quality should be assessed in relation to compliance with European 
air quality limit values and any impact upon AQMAs. 
3.23 The SoS considers that the site lies within a sensitive area that 
includes nationally and European-designated wildlife sites. Within 
10 km of the site there are twenty SSSI’s, 1 SPA , 2 SAC’s, 1 
National Nature Reserve and 23 SINC’s, the potential impacts on 
which should be carefully assessed. There is the need to consider 
potential related effects due to an increase in airborne pollution 
including 
fugitive 
dust 
especially 
during 
site 
preparation, 
demolition and construction.  
 
Scoping Opinion for Abergelli Power Project 
  
 
18 
3.24 The ES should also include an assessment of potential air quality 
impacts on the Lower Lliw Reservoir as a result of both deposition 
and affected rainfall. The SoS notes the comments of Dwr Cymru 
(Welsh Water) in this respect. 
3.25 The air quality assessment should use the APIS critical load 
function tool in order to calculate acid deposition process 
contributions/exceedances. The SoS draws attention to the 
comments of NRW in this respect. 
3.26 The assessment should take account of the air emissions from the 
proposed development and emissions related to vehicular 
movements associated with the proposal. The SoS recommends 
that the implications of stack height and dispersion of the 
discharge be clearly explained within the ES. 
3.27 The SoS recommends that the applicant agrees all modelling 
receptor locations with the City and County of Swansea and also 
that the applicant consults the City and County of Swansea 
regarding the proposed data inputs for the air quality model.   
3.28 The SoS recommends that the applicant agrees which pollutants 
are to be modelled and the meteorological data to be used with 
the City and County of Swansea.  
3.29 The SoS recommends that dispersion modelling considers a range 
of possibilities and seeks to ensure that the ‘worst case’ scenario is 
assessed, for example the ‘worst case’ may occur as a short term 
impact. There are a number of residential receptors within 1 km of 
the project site and suitable receptor locations for modelling 
purposes should be agreed with the relevant local authority and 
NRW. This may need to extend to densely populated areas just 
outside of the proposed study area. The SoS notes the comments 
of NRW in relation to the village of Llangyfelach in this respect.   
The SoS recommends that the applicant consider extending the 
proposed air quality study area to incorporate this village.    
3.30 The SoS recommends that air quality and dust levels are 
considered not only on site but also off site, including along access 
roads, local footpaths and other public rights of way. Consideration 
should also be given to appropriate mitigation measures and to 
monitoring dust complaints. 
3.31 The SoS recommends that the applicant works toward submitting 
their Environmental Permit application at least six months prior to 
the submission of their DCO application.  
Noise and Vibration (see Scoping Report Section 5.4) 
3.32 The SoS welcomes that the noise and vibration assessment 
methodology will accord with NPS EN-1 and will be agreed with the 
appropriate EHO at the City and County of Swansea.  
Scoping Opinion for Abergelli Power Project 
  
 
19 
The SoS notes the intention for noise monitoring locations for the 
baseline assessment to be agreed with the local EHO but draws 
attention to the comment from NRW that the discussion on noise 
monitoring also needs to be communicated to NRW with particular 
reference to an A1 EPR permit which will include noise conditions.  
3.33 The SoS draws attention to the comments of NRW regarding the 
requirements of the Environmental Noise Directive, and the 
Environmental Noise (Wales) (Amendment) Regulations 2009, 
which have introduced a ‘Noise Action Plan for Wales.’ This covers 
industrial noise sources, impacts on designated Quiet Areas and 
the impact of creeping background, and should be taken into 
consideration by the applicant.   
3.34 The SoS recommends that information be provided on the types of 
vehicles and plant to be used during the construction phase. Noise 
impacts on people should specifically be addressed and in 
particular any potential noise disturbance at night and other 
unsocial hours such as weekends and public holidays. 
3.35 The SoS welcomes that the CEMP will set out best practice 
methods of limiting noise and vibration on site during construction 
and decommissioning.  
3.36 The SoS recommends that the noise and vibration assessment 
takes account of traffic movements along access routes during the 
construction phase.   
3.37 The noise assessment should accurately identify the proximity of 
the 
identified 
noise 
sensitive 
receptors 
to 
the 
proposed 
development. With regards to the operational noise assessment, 
this should cover all modes of operation of the proposed 
development. The applicant’s attention is drawn to NRW’s 
comments in these respects. 
Ecology (see Scoping Report Section 5.5) 
3.38 The SoS recommends that surveys are thorough, up to date and 
take account of other development proposed in the vicinity.  The 
SoS notes the comments from NRW in support of the proposed 
further species surveys as proposed in the Phase 1 Habitat 
Survey; these surveys should follow best practice, current 
guidelines and be carried out by suitably qualified ecologists at 
appropriate times of the year. These should include surveys for 
otter in accordance with the recommendations of NRW. The SoS 
notes that the proposed development is within 10km of three 
European sites: Burry Inlet Ramsar Site and SPA, Carmarthen Bay 
and Estuaries SAC and Crymlyn Bog Ramsar Site and SAC. 
3.39 The SoS directs the applicant to the comments of the City and 
County of Wales regarding the Afon Llan and its links to the 
Loughor Estuary / Burry Inlet.  
Scoping Opinion for Abergelli Power Project 
  
 
20 
The SoS recommends that the assessment considers any potential 
impacts on the nature conservation sites in this area. The SoS 
welcomes that the assessment will be carried out in accordance 
with NPS EN-1 and that the results of the Phase 1 Habitat Survey 
have informed which Phase 2 protected species surveys will be 
carried out.   
3.40 The SoS notes the comments from NRW welcoming the re-
surveying of the locally significant habitats in Spring/Summer, and 
expects there to be discussions with the Planning Ecologist for the 
local planning authority with regards to sensitive siting of the 
development to mitigate impacts to nature conservation interests. 
The SoS recommends that the proposals should fully address the 
need to protect and enhance biodiversity. The assessment should 
cover habitats species and processes.  
3.41 The assessment should take into account air quality (including 
dust) and noise and vibration impacts, and cross reference should 
be made to these specialist reports. 
3.42 The SoS welcomes that the CEMP will set out best practice 
methods of limiting effects on ecology and biodiversity during 
construction and decommissioning and that further specific 
mitigation measures will include the consideration of the provision 
of new habitat to suitably replace any habitat areas that would be 
permanently lost through the development of the project.    
3.43 The SoS notes the comments of NRW regarding the presence of 
peat on site, and expects the ES to contain further clarification 
about the location of the peat and the impact of the proposed 
development upon it.  
3.44 The SoS notes the comments of NRW regarding the potential 
impact to local watercourses and recommends the maintenance of 
open watercourses with wide buffer strips in the design of the 
development.         
Water Quality and Resources (see Scoping Report Section 5.6) 
3.45 The SoS welcomes that the applicant intends to consult both NRW 
and the Lead Local Flood Authority (LLFA) on the Flood 
Consequences Assessment. The SoS notes the comments of NRW 
that the assessment should include consideration of surface water 
drainage impacts and options for improving site surface water 
drainage to prevent localised flooding during extreme rainfall 
events. 
3.46 The SoS recommends that the applicant considers temporary 
attenuation ponds to allow adequate settlement of site generated 
run-off during the construction and decommissioning phases of the 
development.  
Scoping Opinion for Abergelli Power Project 
  
 
21 
The SoS draws the attention of the applicant to NRW’s comments 
that silt fencing, scour protection and Sedimats alone have been 
proven ineffective in this catchment due to its flashy nature.  
3.47 The SoS recommends that the applicant ensures that it can be 
demonstrated that the surface water disposal scheme would cause 
no harm to local watercourses upon discharge.   
3.48 The SoS welcomes that the CEMP will set out best practice 
methods of limiting impacts and on water quality and resources 
during construction and decommissioning. 
3.49 The SoS notes the concerns of NRW regarding how sewage and 
waste waters would be managed at the site, the SoS recommends 
that details of proposed discharges are provided within the ES.   
3.50 The SoS welcomes that during construction, operation and 
decommissioning silt raps and oil interceptors would be placed in 
drains on the site. 
3.51 The SoS notes the applicant’s intention to use SuDS if required 
and to minimise the amount of biocides used. 
3.52 The SoS welcomes that oil and chemical storage tanks and drum 
storage areas are to be surrounded by an impermeable bund sized 
to contain 110% of capacity. 
3.53 The SoS notes that NRW would set limits on the quantity of water 
that is discharged from the Power Generation Plant under an 
Environmental Permit.     
3.54 The SoS notes the concerns of NRW regarding cooling water, it 
should be stated within the ES whether any cooling water would 
be required and if so where it would be derived from and 
discharged to. 
3.55 The SoS notes the concerns of Dwr Cymru (Welsh Water) 
regarding the potential impact of the development on water 
quality within the Lower Lliw Reservoir.  It is recommended that 
the applicant assesses potential impacts on this reservoir including 
potential impacts from deposition and affected rainfall. 
3.56 The SoS recommends that the applicant consults Dwr Cymru 
regarding the 48” strategic water main that crosses the application 
site.   
Geology, Ground Conditions and Agriculture (see Scoping 
Report Section 5.7) 
3.57 The SoS welcomes that the assessment will follow the DEFRA / EA 
publication Contaminated Land Report 11, 2004 ‘Model Procedures 
for the Management of Land Contamination’. 
Scoping Opinion for Abergelli Power Project 
  
 
22 
3.58 The SoS welcomes that the CEMP will include best practice 
methods of limiting impacts on the land during both construction 
and decommissioning. 
3.59 The SoS welcomes that any soils, sub-soils or aggregate suitable 
for reuse will be stockpiled on impermeable liners. 
3.60 The SoS welcomes that the foundations of the development will be 
designed so as not to present a preferential pathway for 
contaminant migration if present at the project site.  The SoS 
notes that this consideration should be extended to other works 
forming part of the development, including underground gas and 
electricity connections.     
3.61 The SoS draws the attention of the applicant to the comments of 
the Coal Authority indicating that the site is in a Development High 
Risk Area, as the site has been subject to past coal mining activity 
and is located within an area of surface coal resource.  
3.62 The SoS recommends that the applicant takes into consideration 
the location and stability of abandoned mine entries, the extent 
and stability of shallow mine workings, outcropping coal seams, 
unrecorded 
mine 
workings, 
hydrogeology, 
minewater 
and 
minegas.  
3.63 The SoS recommends that the applicant consider, if surface coal 
resources are present, whether prior extraction of the mineral 
resource is practical and viable. The applicant should also consider 
whether Coal Authority permission is required to intersect, enter, 
or disturb any coal or coal workings during site investigation or 
development work.        
Landscape and Visual (see Scoping Report Section 5.8) 
3.64 The SoS welcomes that the assessment will be carried out in 
accordance with NPS EN-1, using the methodology set out in the 
Guidelines for Landscape and Visual Impact Assessment (3rd 
Edition, 2013). 
3.65 The SoS notes that there are a number of residential receptors 
within 1 km of the project site including those in the nearby 
settlements of Morriston, Pant-Iasau and Llwyncelyn, Felindre, 
there are also 19 isolated dwellings or farmsteads. National Grid’s 
two 400kV electrical substations and Felindre Gas Compressor 
Station lie in the western extent of the project site. Team Force 
Swansea Paintball Centre and a skip hire business as well as the 
M4 motorway lie approximately 1.5 km to the south. 
3.66 The SoS welcomes the use of photomontages for key sensitive 
viewpoints. The SoS notes NRW’s offer to provide advice on 
selected viewpoints and recommends consultation with both NRW 
and the City and County of Swansea on selected viewpoints.  
Scoping Opinion for Abergelli Power Project 
  
 
23 
Consideration should also be given to potential views from Brecon 
Beacons National Park and the National Park Authority should be 
consulted about viewpoints, given that the proposed development 
includes stacks up to 60m in height.  
3.67 The SoS recommends that the applicant provides a description of 
existing landscape interests within and in the vicinity of the 
proposed development site.  
3.68 The SoS recommends that lighting impacts be considered in the 
ES.  
3.69 The SoS recommends that the applicant consider the inclusion of 
the following developments identified by the City and County of 
Swansea within the cumulative assessment: 
  Planning Application 2012/1221 Mynydd y Gwair Wind Farm 
- Installation of 16 wind turbines (maximum height to blade 
tip of 127 metres with a hub height of 80 metres), with a 
maximum generating capacity of 48MW, associated tracks 
and ancillary infrastructure (including permanent and 
temporary 
anemometer 
masts, 
electrical 
substation 
compound, hardstandings, transformers and underground 
cabling) and construction of new access track from A48 
(Bolgoed Road at Pontarddulais) (approximately 14.54km in 
length) incorporating improvements to 3.9km of existing 
road across Mynydd Pysgodlyn – Planning Permission March, 
2013   
  Planning Application 2006/0773 Felindre Business Park - 
Outline Planning Permission has been granted for a strategic 
business park for B1 and B2 uses to accommodate 
emerging industries, high tech manufacturing, high level 
services, ancillary uses, associated car parking, landscaping 
and access roads; and 
  Planning Application 2014/1022 Solar park consisting of 
47,000 solar panels with the installed capacity of 12.69 MW 
on land at Brynwhilach Farm.     
3.70 The SoS also recommends that the proposed sustainable urban 
village at Felindre is considered within the assessment.     
3.71 The SoS notes the comments of the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) 
with regard to the proposed development. It is recommended that 
the applicant takes into account any concerns raised by the 
relevant aerodrome license holders / operators. 
3.72 It is recommended that the applicant gives consideration to 
whether there would be any need for aviation warning lighting. 
The applicant should also seek the opinion of the local emergency 
services air support units. 
Scoping Opinion for Abergelli Power Project 
  
 
24 
3.73 The SoS draws the attention of the applicant to the comments of 
National Grid Electricity Transmission Plc in regard to the four high 
voltage electricity overhead transmission line which lie within the 
proposed order limits. The applicant should note National Grids 
right of access to maintain, repair and inspect their asset, the 
need to maintain the statutory electrical safety clearances at all 
times and the requirement that no permanent structures are built 
directly beneath overhead lines.   
3.74 The SoS recommends that site staff should have an awareness of 
the Health and Safety Executive’s guidance in relation to working 
safely near existing overhead lines Guidance Note GS 6 ‘Avoidance 
of Danger from Overhead Electric Lines’.  Plant, machinery, 
equipment, buildings or scaffolding should not encroach within 5.3 
metres of any high voltage conductors when those conductors are 
in their worst conditions of maximum ‘sag’ and ‘swing’. 
3.75 The SoS recommends that where any landscaping is proposed, 
only slow and low growing species of trees and scrubs should be 
planted beneath and adjacent to the existing transmission line.  
The applicant should note that drilling and excavation work should 
not be undertaken if it has the potential to disturb or adversely 
affect the foundations of an existing tower.  
3.76 The SoS notes the comments of National Grid Gas Plc in regard to 
the three existing gas pipelines and associated equipment which 
lie in close proximity to the proposed order limits. The applicant 
should remain aware that National Grid has a Deed of Grant of 
Easement for each pipeline, preventing the erection of permanent 
or temporary buildings or structures, changes to existing ground 
levels, storage of materials etc. 
3.77 The SoS recommends that where construction traffic can not use 
existing roads it is agreed with National Grid at which locations 
construction traffic would cross any pipelines.  The applicant 
should also note that written permission is required from National 
Grid before any works can commence in the National Grid 
easement strip.  
3.78 The SoS recommends that the applicant takes note of National 
Grids requirements regarding the laying of cables across any 
pipeline as appropriate.   
3.79 The SoS recommends that the applicant has an awareness of the 
Health and Safety Executive’s guidance document HS(G) 47 
‘Avoiding Danger from Underground Services’ and National Grid’s 
specification for Safe Working in the vicinity of National Grid High 
Pressure gas pipelines and associated installations – requirements 
for third parties T/SP/SSW22. 
 
Scoping Opinion for Abergelli Power Project 
  
 
25 
3.80 The SoS notes that any excavations within 3m of a National Grid 
High Pressure Pipeline or within 10m of an above ground 
installation the exact depth and position of the pipeline will need to 
be confirmed on site under the supervision of a National Grid 
representative. 
3.81 The SoS notes the comments made by the Health and Safety 
Executive in relation to electrical safety, it is recommended that it 
is ensured that the proposed design and future operations are 
compliant with the Electricity at Work Regulations 1989 and the 
Electricity, Safety, Continuity and Quality Regulations 2002 as 
amended.  
3.82 The SoS notes the comments of Network Rail in regard to the 
installation of any cables under or over the railway, any methods 
of electricity transmissions across Network Rail’s land or any 
access rights temporary or otherwise. Where applicable the 
applicant will be required to gain property agreements with 
Network Rail’s Easements and Wayleaves Team.       
Traffic, Transport and Access (see Scoping Report Section 5.9) 
3.83 The SoS welcomes that the assessment will be undertaken in 
accordance with the ‘Welsh Transport Planning and Appraisal 
Guidance 
(Wel 
TAG) 
and 
the 
Institute 
of 
Environmental 
Assessment’s (IEA) ‘Guidelines for the Environmental Assessment 
of Road Traffic’ (1993).     
3.84 The SoS welcomes that the CEMP will set out best practice 
methods 
of 
limiting 
impacts 
during 
construction 
and 
decommissioning. 
3.85 The SoS welcomes that opportunities for reducing traffic 
movements will be explored such as car share schemes or shift 
working. 
3.86 The SoS welcomes that proposed measures to improve access by 
public transport, walking and cycling will be provided for the 
operational phase.    
3.87 The SoS recommends that the applicant consults Network Rail’s 
Asset Protection Engineers if the development could result in 
abnormal loads using routes that include Network Rail assets such 
as level crossings / bridges etc.     
Cultural Heritage and Archaeology (see Scoping Report Section 
5.10) 
3.88 The SoS notes that there are 17 Scheduled Monuments within 5 
km of the project site there are also two conservation areas one 
Grade I and seven Grade II listed buildings and three Grade II 
Historic Parks and Gardens. 
Scoping Opinion for Abergelli Power Project 
  
 
26 
3.89 The SoS welcomes that the assessment will be carried out in 
accordance with NPS EN-1.    
3.90 The SoS notes that the applicant may provide screen planting 
should the project give rise to any adverse impact on above 
ground heritage assets.  
3.91 The SoS recommends the inclusion of aerial photographs within 
search information and draws the applicant’s attention to the 
comments of Cadw in this regard. 
3.92 The SoS directs the applicant to Cadw’s comment regarding the 
referenced Standard and Guidance for Archaeological Assessment 
(2011) being superseded by the Standard and Guidance for 
historic environment desk-based assessment (2012). 
3.93 The SoS notes the comments of Cadw in regard to the assessment 
on the setting of designated assets, it is recommended that 
photographs from each asset towards the development be 
produced and where an adverse impact is thought likely to occur a 
photomontage should be produced.  
3.94 The SoS directs the applicant to Cadw’s comment regarding the 
reference to Registered Battlefields; as not applicable in Wales this 
reference should be removed, but the ES should include 
consideration 
of 
potential 
impacts 
to 
Registered 
Historic 
Landscapes.    
3.95 The SoS recommends that tranquillity be added to the list of 
factors considered relevant when assessing impacts on setting.    
Socio Economics (see Scoping Report Section 5.11) 
3.96 The SoS notes that the applicant intends to employ between 150 
and 250 personnel and that subject to procurement rules it is 
anticipated that as many as possible of these staff will be recruited 
locally. 
3.97 The SoS notes that the operation of the generating equipment will 
require up to 15 full time staff over the lifetime of the project 
working in shifts and that in addition there will be indirect jobs for 
contracted 
engineering 
staff 
during 
regular 
maintenance 
shutdowns and maintenance of the Gas and Electrical connections. 
3.98 The SoS welcomes that the assessment will be carried out in 
accordance with NPS EN-1 and will consider all relevant socio-
economic impacts such as tourism, influxes of workers and 
cumulative impacts.  
3.99 The SoS welcomes that during construction, operation and 
decommissioning an effort will be made to use local goods and 
services, wherever possible. 
Scoping Opinion for Abergelli Power Project 
  
 
27 
   
3.100 The SoS recommends that the applicant provides justification for 
this choice of simple cycle gas turbine within the ES and directs 
the applicant to the comments of NRW indicating that this turbine 
choice is not considered to represent Best Available Technique 
(BAT).    
Scoping Opinion for Abergelli Power Project 
  
 
28 
4.0 OTHER INFORMATION 
4.1 
This section does not form part of the SoS’s Opinion as to the 
information to be provided in the environmental statement. 
However, it does respond to other issues that the SoS has 
identified which may help to inform the preparation of the 
application for the DCO.  
Habitats Regulations Assessment (HRA) 
4.2 
The applicant’s attention is drawn to The Infrastructure Planning 
(Applications: Prescribed Forms and Procedure) Regulations 2009 
(as amended) (The APFP Regulations) and the need to include 
information identifying European sites to which the Habitats 
Regulations applies or any Ramsar site or potential SPA which may 
be affected by a proposal. The SoS notes that Burry Inlet Ramsar 
Site and SPA, Carmarthen Bay and Estuaries SAC and Crymlyn 
Bog Ramsar Site and SAC are all located with 10km of the 
proposed development site. The submitted information should be 
sufficient for the Competent Authority (CA) to make an 
appropriate assessment (AA) of the implications for the site if 
required by Regulation 61(1) of the Habitats Regulations. The 
applicant should note that the CA is the SoS. 
4.3 
The report to be submitted under Regulation 5(2)(g) of the APFP 
Regulations with the application must deal with two issues: the 
first is to enable a formal assessment by the CA of whether there 
is a likely significant effect; and the second, should it be required, 
is to enable the carrying out of an AA by the CA.  
4.4 
When considering aspects of the environment likely to be affected 
by the proposed development; including flora, fauna, soil, water, 
air and the inter-relationship between these, consideration should 
be given to the designated sites in the vicinity of the proposed 
development. 
Sites of Special Scientific Interest (SSSIs) 
4.5 
The Secretary of State notes that two SSSIs are located within 
5km of the proposed development; Nant y Crimp SSSI and 
Penplas grasslands SSSI. Where there may be potential impacts 
on the SSSIs, the SoS has duties under sections 28(G) and 28(I) 
of the Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981 (as amended) (the W&C 
Act). These are set out below for information. 
4.6 
Under s28(G), the SoS has a general duty ‘… to take reasonable 
steps, consistent with the proper exercise of the authority’s 
functions, to further the conservation and enhancement of the 
flora, fauna or geological or physiographical features by reason of 
which the site is of special scientific interest’.   
Scoping Opinion for Abergelli Power Project 
  
 
29 
4.7 
Under 
s28(I), 
the 
SoS 
must 
notify 
the 
relevant 
nature 
conservation body (NCB), NRW in this case, before authorising the 
carrying out of operations likely to damage the special interest 
features of a SSSI. Under these circumstances 28 days must 
elapse before deciding whether to grant consent, and the SoS 
must take account of any advice received from the NCB, including 
advice on attaching conditions to the consent. The NCB will be 
notified during the examination period.  
4.8 
If applicants consider it likely that notification may be necessary 
under s28(I), they are advised to resolve any issues with the NCB 
before the DCO application is submitted to the SoS. If, following 
assessment by applicants, it is considered that operations affecting 
the SSSI will not lead to damage of the special interest features, 
applicants should make this clear in the ES. The application 
documents submitted in accordance with Regulation 5(2)(l) could 
also provide this information. Applicants should seek to agree with 
the NCB the DCO requirements which will provide protection for 
the SSSI before the DCO application is submitted. 
European Protected Species (EPS)  
4.9 
Applicants should be aware that the decision maker under the 
Planning Act 2008 (PA 2008) has, as the CA, a duty to engage 
with the Habitats Directive. Where a potential risk to an EPS is 
identified, and before making a decision to grant development 
consent, the CA must, amongst other things, address the 
derogation tests2 in Regulation 53 of the Habitats Regulations. 
Therefore the applicant may wish to provide information which will 
assist the decision maker to meet this duty.  
4.10 If an applicant has concluded that an EPS licence is required the 
ExA will need to understand whether there is any impediment to 
the licence being granted. The decision to apply for a licence or 
not will rest with the applicant as the person responsible for 
commissioning the proposed activity by taking into account the 
advice of their consultant ecologist. 
4.11 Applicants are encouraged to consult with NRW and, where 
required, to agree appropriate requirements to secure necessary 
mitigation. It would assist the examination if applicants could 
provide, with the application documents, confirmation from NRW 
whether any issues have been identified which would prevent the 
EPS licence being granted. 
4.12 Generally, NRW are unable to grant an EPS licence in respect of 
any development until all the necessary consents required have 
been secured in order to proceed.  
                                       
2 Key case law re need to consider Article 16 of the Habitats Directive: Woolley vs 
East Cheshire County Council 2009 and Morge v Hampshire County Council 2010.  
Scoping Opinion for Abergelli Power Project 
  
 
30 
For NSIPs, NRW will assess a draft licence application in order to 
ensure that all the relevant issues have been addressed. Within 30 
working days of receipt, NRW will either issue ‘a letter of no 
impediment’ stating that it is satisfied, insofar as it can make a 
judgement, that the proposals presented comply with the 
regulations or will issue a letter outlining why NRW consider the 
proposals do not meet licensing requirements and what further 
information is required before a ‘letter of no impediment’ can be 
issued.  The applicant is responsible for ensure draft licence 
applications are satisfactory for the purposes of informing formal 
pre-application assessment by NRW.   
4.13 Ecological conditions on the site may change over time. It will be 
the applicant’s responsibility to ensure information is satisfactory 
for the purposes of informing the assessment of no detriment to 
the maintenance of favourable conservation status (FCS) of the 
population of EPS affected by the proposals3. Applicants are 
advised that current conservation status of populations may or 
may not be favourable. Demonstration of no detriment to 
favourable 
populations may require 
further survey and/or 
submission 
of 
revised 
short 
or 
long 
term 
mitigation 
or 
compensation proposals. In Wales, the focus is on evidencing the 
demonstration of no detriment to the maintenance of favourable 
conservation status (FCS) of the population or colony of EPS 
potentially affected by the proposals. This approach will help to 
ensure no delay in issuing the licence should the DCO application 
be successful.  
4.14 In Wales, assistance may be obtained from NRW’s Regional 
Species Teams. These Teams provide advice on a range of issues 
concerning EPS including advice on compensation site design, 
measures 
to 
mitigate 
incidental 
capture/killing, 
evidencing 
compliance and post project surveillance. The service is free of 
charge and entirely voluntary. Regional Species Teams can be 
contacted via NRW’s Enquiry Service. Further information is 
available from the following link: 
http://naturalresourceswales.gov.uk/apply-buy-report/apply-buy-
grid/protected-species-licensing/european-protected-species-
licensing/?lang=en 
Health Impact Assessment  
4.15 The SoS considers that it is a matter for the applicant to decide 
whether or not to submit a stand-alone Health Impact Assessment 
(HIA).  
                                       
3 Key case law in respect of the application of the FCS test at a site level: Hafod 
Quarry Land Tribunal (Mersey Waste (Holdings) Limited v Wrexham County 
Borough Council) 2012, and Court of Appeal 2012. 
 
Scoping Opinion for Abergelli Power Project 
  
 
31 
However, the applicant should have regard to the responses 
received from the relevant consultees regarding health, and in 
particular to the comments from Public Health England in relation 
to emissions to air and the Health and Safety Executive in relation 
to electrical safety issues (see Appendix 2).  
4.16 The methodology for the HIA, if prepared, should be agreed with 
the relevant statutory consultees and take into account mitigation 
measures for acute risks. 
Other regulatory regimes 
4.17 The SoS recommends that the applicant should state clearly what 
regulatory areas are addressed in the ES and that the applicant 
should ensure that all relevant authorisations, licences, permits 
and consents that are necessary to enable operations to proceed 
are described in the ES. Also it should be clear that any likely 
significant effects of the proposed development which may be 
regulated by other statutory regimes have been properly taken 
into account in the ES. 
4.18 It will not necessarily follow that the granting of consent under one 
regime will ensure consent under another regime. For those 
consents not capable of being included in an application for 
consent under the PA 2008, the SoS will require a level of 
assurance or comfort from the relevant regulatory authorities that 
the proposal is acceptable and likely to be approved, before they 
make a recommendation or decision on an application. The 
applicant is encouraged to make early contact with other 
regulators. Information from the applicant about progress in 
obtaining other permits, licences or consents, including any 
confirmation that there is no obvious reason why these will not 
subsequently be granted, will be helpful in supporting an 
application for development consent to the SoS. 
Transboundary Impacts  
4.19 The SoS has noted that the applicant has not indicated whether 
the proposed development is likely to have significant impacts on 
another European Economic Area (EEA) State.  
4.20 Regulation 24 of the EIA Regulations, which inter alia require the 
SoS to publicise a DCO application if the SoS is of the view that 
the proposal is likely to have significant effects on the environment 
of another EEA state and where relevant to consult with the EEA 
state affected. The SoS considers that where Regulation 24 
applies, this is likely to have implications for the examination of a 
DCO application.  
 
Scoping Opinion for Abergelli Power Project 
  
 
32 
4.21 The SoS recommends that the ES should identify whether the 
proposed 
development 
has 
the 
potential 
for 
significant 
transboundary impacts and if so, what these are and which EEA 
States would be affected. 
Scoping Opinion for Abergelli Power Project 
  
 
 
APPENDIX 1 
List of Consultees 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix 1 
 
APPENDIX 1 
LIST OF BODIES FORMALLY CONSULTED DURING THE 
SCOPING EXERCISE 
CONSULTEE 
ORGANISATION 
SCHEDULE 1 
The Welsh Ministers 
Welsh Government 
The Health and Safety Executive 
Health and Safety Executive 
The Relevant Fire and Rescue 
Authority 
Mid and West Wales Fire and Rescue 
The Relevant Police and Crime 
Commissioner 
Dyfed-Powys Police 
The Relevant Parish Council(s) or 
Relevant Community Council 
Llanedi Community Council 
Pontarddulais Community Council 
Betws Community Council 
Pontardawe Town Council 
Cwmamman Town Council 
Mawr Community Council 
Pontlliw and Tircoed 
Penllergaer 
Llangyfelach 
Clydach Community Council 
The Equality and Human Rights 
Commission 
Equality and Human Rights 
Commission 
Royal Commission On Ancient and 
Historical Monuments Of Wales 
Royal Commission On Ancient and 
Historical Monuments Of Wales 
The Natural Resources Body for 
Wales 
Natural Resources Wales 
The Civil Aviation Authority 
Civil Aviation Authority 
The Relevant Highways Authority 
City and County of Swansea - 
Highways 
The Passengers Council 
Passenger Focus 
The Disabled Persons Transport 
Advisory Committee 
Disabled Persons Transport Advisory 
Committee 
The Coal Authority 
The Coal Authority 
The Office Of Rail Regulation 
Office of Rail Regulation (Customer 
Correspondence Team Manager) 
Approved Operator 
Network Rail Infrastructure Ltd 
Approved Operator 
Network Rail (CTRL) Ltd 
The Gas and Electricity Markets 
Authority 
OFGEM 
The Water Services Regulation 
Authority 
OFWAT 
The Canal and River Trust 
The Canal and River Trust 
Public Health England, an 
executive agency to the 
Department of Health 
 
Public Health England 
 
 
 
Appendix 1 
 
The Relevant Local Resilience 
forum 
Dyfed Powys LRF Partnership Team 
The Crown Estate Commissioners 
The Crown Estate 
The Natural Resources Body for 
Wales 
Natural Resources Wales 
The relevant local heath board 
Abertawe Bro Morgannwy University 
LHB 
The National Health Service Trusts Health Protection Team 
Public Health Wales 
The National Health Service Trusts Welsh Ambulance Services Trust 
The National Health Service Trusts Velindre NHS Trust 
 
RELEVANT STATUTORY UNDERTAKERS 
 
Relevant Statutory Undertakers (s.8 ALA 1981) 
Railway 
Network Rail Infrastructure Ltd 
Railways 
Highways Agency Historical Railways 
Estate 
Water Transport 
The Canal and River Trust 
Dock 
Swansea Port 
Civil Aviation Authority 
Civil Aviation Authority 
Licence Holder (Chapter 1 Of Part 
1 Of Transport Act 2000) 
NATS En-Route (NERL) Safeguarding 
Universal Service Provider 
Royal Mail Group 
Water and Sewage Undertakers 
Dwr Cymru (Welsh Water) 
Public Gas Transporter 
Energetics Gas Limited 
ES Pipelines Ltd 
ESP Connections Ltd 
ESP Networks Ltd 
ESP Pipelines Ltd 
Fulcrum Pipelines Limited 
GTC Pipelines Limited 
Independent Pipelines Limited 
LNG Portable Pipeline Services 
Limited 
National Grid Gas Plc 
National Grid Plc 
Quadrant Pipelines Limited 
SSE Pipelines Ltd 
Scotland Gas Networks Plc 
Southern Gas Networks Plc 
Wales and West Utilities Ltd 
Electricity Distributors With CPO 
Powers 
Energetics Electricity Limited 
ESP Electricity Limited 
Independent Power Networks Limited 
The Electricity Network Company 
Limited 
 
 
 
Appendix 1 
 
Electricity Transmitters With CPO 
Powers 
National Grid Electricity Transmission 
Plc 
National Grid Plc 
 
LOCAL AUTHORITIES (SECTION 43) 
 
A county council, or county 
borough council , in Wales 
Swansea Council 
Neath Port Talbot County Borough 
Council 
Camarthenshire Council 
 
NON-PRESCRIBED CONSULTATION BODIES 
 
Welsh Language Commissioner 
Welsh Language Commissioner 
CADW 
Cadw 
 
 
 
Appendix 2 
APPENDIX 2 
Respondents to Consultation and Copies 
of Replies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix 2 
APPENDIX 2 
LIST OF BODIES WHO REPLIED BY THE STATUTORY 
DEADLINE 
Betwys Community Council 
Cadw 
City and County of Swansea 
Civil Aviation Authority 
Dwr Cymru (Welsh Water) 
Energetics Gas Limited 
E S Pipelines Ltd, ESP Electricity Ltd, ESP Pipelines Ltd, ESP Connections 
Ltd and ESP Networks Ltd 
Fulcrum Pipelines Limited 
GTC Pipelines Limited 
Health and Safety Executive 
NATs Safeguarding 
National Grid Electricity Plc  
National Grid Gas Plc 
Natural Resources Wales 
Neath Port Talbot County Borough Council 
Network Rail 
Public Health England 
The Coal Authority 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
Hannah Nelson
From:
Smailes Baggy <Baggy.Smailes@caa.co.uk>
Sent:
30 June 2014 08:47
To:
Environmental Services
Subject:
Abergelli Power Project Scoping Comment - EN010069
Follow Up Flag:
Follow up
Flag Status:
Flagged
Dear Sirs, 
  
Proposed Abergelli Power Project – Scoping Comment 
  
Thank you for The Planning Inspectorate’s recent correspondence relating to the subject 
development.  The Inspectorate sought related Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) scoping comment; I 
trust the following is useful. 
 
I note from the Scoping Report (SR) that the tallest associated structures are expected to be 
between 1 and 5 chimney stacks that would each have a height of up to 60metres (m).  On that 
basis I belief the following (potential) issues are worthy of consideration: 
 
Aerodromes.  In respect of any potential aerodrome related issue, I should highlight the need to 
check any safeguarding maps lodged with relevant planning authorities to identify any aerodrome 
specific safeguarding issues.  To that effect, I note the relatively close proximity of Swansea 
Airport to the development site.  Noting that aerodrome safeguarding responsibility rests in all 
cases with the relevant aerodrome operator / licensee, not the CAA, it is important that the related 
viewpoints of any relevant aerodrome license holders / operators is established and any concerns 
expressed appropriately mitigated. 
 
Aviation Warning Lighting:   
 
In the UK, the need for aviation obstruction lighting on 'tall' structures depends in the first instance 
upon any particular structure's location in relationship to an aerodrome. If the structure constitutes 
an 'aerodrome obstruction' it is the aerodrome operator that with review the lighting requirement. 
For civil aerodromes, they will, in general terms, follow the requirements of CAP 168 - Licensing of 
Aerodromes. This document can be downloaded from the Civil Aviation CAA website at 
www.caa.co.uk/docs/33/CAP168.PDF - Chapter 4 (12.8) refers to obstacle lighting.  
 
Away from aerodromes Article 219 of the UK Air Navigation Order applies. This Article requires 
that for en-route obstructions (ie away from aerodromes) lighting only becomes legally mandated 
for structures of a height of 150m or more. However, structures of lesser high might need aviation 
obstruction lighting if, by virtue of their location and nature, they are considered a significant 
navigational hazard.  
 
Cranes, whether in situ temporarily or long term are captured by the points heighted above.  Note 
that if a crane is located on top of another structure, it is the overall height (structure + crane) than 
is relevant. 
 
In this case, given the assumed maximum height of 60m, Article 219 would not apply.  In the 
event that there is no aerodrome issue I can advise that the CAA would not in isolation make any 
case for lighting. 
 
Gas Venting and/or Flaring.  It is assumed that the new facility is not intended to vent or flare gas 
either routinely or as an emergency procedure such as to cause a danger to overlying aircraft.  If 
2
that is not the case parties are invited to use myself as an appropriate point of contact for any 
further related discussion. 
 
Aviation Promulgation.  There is a civil aviation requirement in the UK for all structures over 300 
feet high to be charted on aviation maps.  It follows that, at 60m (197ft) high, there is no en-route 
(ie non-aerodrome specific) civil aviation charting requirement.  However, if crane usage in the 
construction phase involves heights of 300ft or more, the temporary structure will need to be 
appropriately notified.  For temporary structures this notification can be achieved through the 
publication of a Notice to Airmen (NOTAM).  If needed by virtue of temporary use of cranes such 
that the 300ft threshold is breached a NOTAM can be arranged through the developer providing 
related details to the CAA’s Airspace Utilisation Section (ausops@caa.co.uk / 0207 453 6599).   
 
Military Aviation.  For completeness, the Ministry of Defence position in regards to the proposed 
development and military aviation activity should be established. 
 
I should also add that that due to the unique nature of associated operations in respect of 
operating altitudes and potentially unusual landing sites, it would also be sensible to establish the 
related viewpoint of local emergency services air support units.      
   
I believe that any associated Environmental Statement / Development Consent Order (or 
equivalent / similar) would be expected to acknowledge and where applicable address the issues 
highlighted above and accordingly the scoping opinion should make related comment. 
  
Whilst none of the above negates any aforementioned need to consult in line with Government 
requirements associated with the safeguarding of aerodromes and other technical sites 
(Government Circular 1/2003 refers), I hope this information matches your requirements.  Please 
do not hesitate to get in touch if you require any further comment or needs clarification of any 
point. 
  
Mark Smailes 
Airspace Regulator 
Safety and Airspace Regulation Group 
Civil Aviation Authority 
CAA House 
45-59 Kingsway 
London WC2B 6TE  
Tel: 0207 453 6545 
  
  
  
  
********************************************************************** 
Before Printing consider the environment. 
  
This e-mail and any attachment(s) are for authorised use by the intended recipient(s) only. It may contain proprietary material, confidential 
information and/or be subject to legal privilege. If you are not an intended recipient then please promptly delete this e-mail, as well as any 
associated attachment(s) and inform the sender. It should not be copied, disclosed to, retained or used by, any other party.  
Thank you. 
  
Please note that all e-mail messages sent to the Civil Aviation Authority are subject to monitoring / interception for lawful business 
Plas Carew, Uned 5/7 Cefn Coed 
Parc Nantgarw, Caerdydd CF15 7QQ
Ffôn 01443 336000 Ffacs 01443 336001
Ebost cadw@wales.gsi.gov.uk
Gwefan www.cadw.wales.gov.uk 
Plas Carew, Unit 5/7 Cefn Coed
Parc Nantgarw, Cardiff CF15 7QQ
Tel 01443 336000 Fax 01443 336001
Email cadw@wales.gsi.gov.uk
Web www.cadw.wales.gov.uk
Cadw yw gwasanaeth amgylchedd hanesyddol Llywodraeth Cymru. Ein nod yw
hyrwyddo gwaith cadwraeth ar gyfer amgylchedd hanesyddol Cymru a gwerthfawrogiad ohono.
Cadw is the Welsh Government’s historic environment service. Our aim is to
promote the conservation and appreciation of Wales’s historic environment.
Eich cyfeirnod
Your reference
EN010069
Ein cyfeirnod
Our reference
AD
Dyddiad
Date
24 July 2014
Llinell uniongyrchol
Direct line  
01443 336097
Jenny Colfer
The Planning Inspectorate
3/18 Eagle Wing
Temple Quay House
2 The Square
Bristol
BS1 6PN
Ebost
Email:
Adele.davies42@wales.gsi.g
ov.uk
Dear Ms Colfer
PLANNING ACT 2008 (AS AMENDED) AND THE INFRASTRUCTURE PLANNING 
(ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT) REGULATIONS 2009 (AS AMENDED) –
REGULATION 8
APPLICATION BY ABERGELLI POWER LIMTED FOR AN ORDER GRANTING 
DEVELOPMENT CONSENT FOR THE ABERGELLI POWER PROJECT
SCOPING CONSULTATION WITH NON PRESCRIBED CONSULATION BODIES
Thank you for your letter of 26 June 2014 inviting Cadw’s comments on the above.
This consultation is in regard to the scoping of the Cultural Heritage and Archaeology section 
of an Environmental Impact Assessment for a proposed Power Station.
The designated historic assets listed in the document as being inside 5km of the application 
area concurs with the information on Cadw’s database. 
In section 10.5.7 searches should include aerial photographs as held by Central Register of 
Air Photography for Wales and also LiDAR information held by National Resources Wales.
Section 5.10.8 Standard and Guidance for archaeological assessment (Institute for 
Archaeologists 2011) has been superseded by Standard and Guidance for historic 
environment desk-based assessment (Institute for Archaeologists 2012) and the work should 
be undertaken in accordance with that document.
Section 5.10.11 In order to assist the assessment on the setting of designated assets, 
photographs from each asset towards the development site should be produced. Where it is 
clear that an adverse impact will occur than a photomontage should be produced.
Section 5.10.12 Registered Battlefields should be removed from this list as no such register 
exists in Wales, although Registered Historic Landscapes should be added.
Section 5.10.14 Tranquillity should be added to this list.
Finally, as the work required to determine the magnitude of impact will need to be assessed 
using professional judgement by a competent expert, it is strongly recommended that this 
work should be undertaken by a Member of the Institute for Archaeologists (IfA) and ideally 
an IfA registered organisation.
         
Yours sincerely
Adele Davies
Diogelu a Pholisi/ Protection and Policy
1
Hannah Nelson
From:
Alan Slee <alans@espipelines.com>
Sent:
28 July 2014 15:59
To:
Environmental Services
Subject:
RE: Reference: PE126442.  Plant Not Affected Notice from ES Pipelines
Dear Jenny, 
 
Thanks for your call and this often raises some confusion.  ESP Gas Group has been renamed ESP 
Utilities Group Limited and this standard response template is embedded in our database and is 
subject to revision at some stage soon on the next update tranche.  The company status has not 
changed in as much that ESP Utilities Group Ltd consists of the 5 licensed companies (referred to as 
‘subsidiary brands’ on our website) consisting E S Pipelines Ltd, ESP Electricity Ltd, ESP Pipelines Ltd, 
ESP Connections Ltd and ESP Networks Ltd.  They are all operated from our offices in Leatherhead and 
to avoid confusion and multiple and voluminous copies prefer to respond in ‘bulk’.  All our asset data is 
held at one location and the response is based upon a companywide search incorporating all gas and 
electricity assets that we own and manage and that fall under our statutory undertakers obligations. 
 
Regards, 
 
Alan Slee 
Operations Manager 
 
DD 01372 227567 
Mobile 07766 802070 
Fax 01372 386203 
www.esputilities.com 
 
From: Environmental Services [mailto:EnvironmentalServices@infrastructure.gsi.gov.uk]  
Sent: 28 July 2014 15:54 
To: Alan Slee 
Subject: RE: Reference: PE126442. Plant Not Affected Notice from ES Pipelines 
 
Dear Mr Slee 
 
Thank you for your response to the scoping consultation in relation to the Abergelli Power 
Project.  Please can you confirm by reply to this email that you are responding on behalf of E 
S Pipelines Ltd, ESP Electricity Ltd, ESP Pipelines Ltd, ESP Connections Ltd and ESP Networks 
Ltd. 
 
Kind Regards 
 
Jenny 
 
Jenny Colfer 
Senior EIA and Land Rights Advisor 
Major Applications and Plans 
The Planning Inspectorate, 3/18 Eagle Wing, Temple Quay House, Temple Quay, 
Bristol BS1 6PN 
Direct Line: 0303 444 5532 
Helpline: 0303 444 5000 
Email: jenny.colfer@pins.gsi.gov.uk 
2
Web: www.planningportal.gov.uk/planninginspectorate (Planning Inspectorate 
casework and appeals) 
Web: www.planningportal.gov.uk/infrastructure (Planning Inspectorate's National 
Infrastructure Planning portal) 
Twitter: @PINSgov   
This communication does not constitute legal advice. 
Please view our Information Charter before sending information to the Planning 
Inspectorate.  
 
 
 
From: ES Pipelines [mailto:email@espipelines.com]  
Sent: 01 July 2014 11:41 
To: Environmental Services 
Subject: Reference: PE126442. Plant Not Affected Notice from ES Pipelines 
 
 
 
 
 
Environmental Services  
The Planning Inspectorate  
1 July 2014  
 
Reference: EN010069 Abergelli Power Project Scoping Consultat 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
 
Thank you for your recent plant enquiry at: Abergelli Power Project 
I can confirm that ESP Gas Group Ltd has no gas or electricity apparatus in the vicinity of this site 
address and will not be affected by your proposed works.  
ESP are continually laying new gas and electricity networks and this notification is valid for 90 
days from the date of this letter. If your proposed works start after this period of time, please re-
submit your enquiry. 
Important Notice 
Please be advised that any enquiries for ESP Connections Ltd, formerly known as British Gas 
Connections Ltd, should be sent directly to us at the address shown above or alternatively you 
can email us at: PlantResponses@espipelines.com 
 
Yours faithfully,  
3
 
Alan Slee 
Operations Manager 
 
This email was scanned by the Government Secure Intranet anti-virus service supplied by Vodafone in 
partnership with Symantec. (CCTM Certificate Number 2009/09/0052.) In case of problems, please call 
your organisations IT Helpdesk. 
Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for legal purposes. 
********************************************************************** 
Correspondents should note that all communications to Department for Communities and Local Government may be automatically logged, 
monitored and/or recorded for lawful purposes. 
********************************************************************** 
  
 
 
********************************************************************** 
This email and any files transmitted with it are private and intended solely for the 
use of the individual or entity to which they are addressed. If you are not the 
intended recipient the E-mail and any files have been transmitted to you in error and 
any copying, distribution or other use of the information contained in them is 
strictly prohibited. 
 
Nothing in this E-mail message amounts to a contractual or other legal commitment on 
the part of the Government unless confirmed by a communication signed on behalf of the 
Secretary of State. 
 
The Department's computer systems may be monitored and communications carried on them 
recorded, to secure the effective operation of the system and for other lawful 
purposes. 
 
Correspondents should note that all communications from Department for Communities and 
Local Government may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for lawful 
purposes. 
*********************************************************************************** 
 
 
 
The original of this email was scanned for viruses by the Government Secure Intranet virus scanning service 
supplied by Vodafone in partnership with Symantec. (CCTM Certificate Number 2009/09/0052.) This email 
has been certified virus free. 
Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for legal purposes. 
 
This email was scanned by the Government Secure Intranet anti-virus service supplied by Vodafone in 
partnership with Symantec. (CCTM Certificate Number 2009/09/0052.) In case of problems, please call 
your organisations IT Helpdesk. 
Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for legal purposes. 
1
Hannah Nelson
From:
Claire Ferguson <claire.ferguson@energetics-uk.com>
Sent:
27 June 2014 11:48
To:
Environmental Services
Subject:
EN010069
Follow Up Flag:
Follow up
Flag Status:
Flagged
 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
 
Thank you for submitting your recent plant enquiry. 
 
Based on the information provided, I can confirm that Energetics does not have any plant within the area(s) 
specified in your request. 
 
Please be advised that it may take around 10 working days to process enquiries. In the unlikely event that you have 
been waiting longer than 10 working days, or require further assistance with outstanding enquiries, please call 
01698 404945. 
 
Please ensure all plant enquiries are sent to plantenquiries@energetics‐uk.com 
 
Regards 
 
Claire Ferguson 
Technical Clerical Team 
 
Energetics Design & Build 
International House 
Stanley Boulevard 
Hamilton International Technology Park 
Glasgow 
G72 0BN 
 
t: 01698 404979 
f: 01698 404940 
 
e: claire.ferguson@energetics‐uk.com 
w: www.energetics‐uk.com 
 
 
This email was scanned by the Government Secure Intranet anti-virus service supplied by Vodafone in 
partnership with Symantec. (CCTM Certificate Number 2009/09/0052.) In case of problems, please call 
your organisations IT Helpdesk. 
Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for legal purposes. 
********************************************************************** 
Correspondents should note that all communications to Department for Communities and Local Government may be automatically logged, 
monitored and/or recorded for lawful purposes. 
1
Hannah Nelson
From:
Penlington, Graham <Graham.Penlington@fulcrum.co.uk> on behalf of 
&box_FPLplantprotection_conx, <FPLplantprotection@fulcrum.co.uk>
Sent:
02 July 2014 16:27
To:
Environmental Services
Subject:
RE: EN010069 Abergelli Power Project Scoping Consultation
Follow Up Flag:
Follow up
Flag Status:
Flagged
Thank you for asking Fulcrum Pipelines Limited to examine your consultation document for the above project. 
  
We can confirm that Fulcrum Pipelines Limited have no comments to make on this scoping report. Please note that 
we are constantly adding to our underground assets and would strongly advise that we are consulted prior to 
undertaking any excavations.  
  
Please note that other gas transporters may have plant in this locality which could be affected. 
  
We will always make every effort to help you where we can, but Fulcrum Pipelines Limited will not be held 
responsible for any incident or accident arising from the use of the information associated with this search. The 
details provided are given in good faith, but no liability whatsoever can be accepted in respect thereof. 
  
If you need any help or information simply contact Fulcrum on 0845 641 3060 
  
To save you time, any future requests for information about our plant, can be emailed to 
FPLplantprotection@fulcrum.co.uk 
  
GRAHAM PENLINGTON 
Process Assistant 
 
 
Tel: 0845 641 3060 
Direct Dial: 01142 804 175 
Email: Graham.Penlington@fulcrum.co.uk 
Web: www.fulcrum.co.uk 
  
 
FULCRUM NEWS 
 
FULCRUM ENGINEER SCOOPS TOP GAS INDUSTRY AWARD 
Fulcrum’s Paul Leighton named as the UK gas industry’s 2014 Engineer of The Year. Learn more. 
FULCRUM TOASTS SUCCESSFUL COMPLETION OF HISTORIC £7.6MILLION, 16 MILE GAS PIPELINE 
16‐mile link to Scotland's main gas network completed six‐months ahead of schedule despite winter temperatures of‐
12°C. Learn more. 
1
Hannah Nelson
From:
Tom.Anderson@gtc-uk.co.uk
Sent:
27 June 2014 10:56
To:
Environmental Services
Subject:
EN010069
Follow Up Flag:
Follow up
Flag Status:
Flagged
Hi 
  
With regard to the above ref we have no comment to make 
  
Kind Regards 
  
Tom Anderson 
Engineering Support Officer 
  
GTC 
Engineering 
Energy House 
Woolpit Business Park 
Woolpit 
Bury St. Edmunds 
Suffolk 
IP30 9UP 
Tel: 01359 243376 (ext. 3376) 
Fax: 01359 244046 
Email: tom.anderson@gtc-uk.co.uk 
Web: www.gtc-uk.co.uk 
  
 
 
NOTE: 
This E-Mail originates from GTC, Energy House, Woolpit Business Park, Woolpit, Bury St Edmunds, Suffolk, IP30 
9UP 
VAT Number: GB688 8971 40. Registered No: 029431.  
 
DISCLAIMER 
The information in this E-Mail and in any attachments is confidential and may be privileged. If you are not the intended 
recipient, please destroy this message, delete any copies held on your system and notify the sender immediately. You 
should not retain, copy or use this E-Mail for any purpose, nor disclose all or any part of its content to any other 
person. Whilst we run antivirus software on Internet E-Mails, we are not liable for any loss or damage. The recipient is 
advised to run their own up to date antivirus software. 
Thank you  
This email was scanned by the Government Secure Intranet anti-virus service supplied by Vodafone in 
partnership with Symantec. (CCTM Certificate Number 2009/09/0052.) In case of problems, please call 
your organisations IT Helpdesk. 
Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for legal purposes. 
********************************************************************** 
Correspondents should note that all communications to Department for Communities and Local Government may be automatically logged, 
monitored and/or recorded for lawful purposes. 
********************************************************************** 
  
 
National Grid house 
Warwick Technology Park 
Gallows Hill, Warwick 
CV34 6DA 
 
National Grid is a trading name for: 
National Grid is  a trading name for: 
National Grid Electricity Transmission plc 
National Grid Gas plc 
Registered Office: 1-3 Strand, London WC2N 5EH 
Registered Office: 1-3 Strand, London WC2N 5EH 
Registered in England and Wales, No 2366977 
Registered in England and Wales, No 2006000 
 
3/18 Eagle Wing 
Temple Quay House 
2 The Square 
Bristol 
BS1 6PN 
 
 
SUBMITTED VIA EMAIL TO:  
enviromentalservices@infrastructure.gsi.gov.uk 
 
Land and Development  
Laura Kelly 
Town Planner 
Laura.kelly@nationalgrid.com 
Direct tel: +44 (0)1926 654686 
 
 
www.nationalgrid.com 
08 July 2014 
 
 
 
Your Ref: EN010069 
 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
 
Planning Act 2008 (as amended) and The Infrastructure Planning (Environmental Impact 
Assessment) Regulations 2009 (As Amended)- Regulations 8 and 9 
 
Application by Abergelli Power Limited for an order granting development consent for the 
Abergelli Power Project 
 
Scoping consultation and notification of the applicants contact details and duty to make 
available information to the applicant if requested 
 
This is a joint response by National Grid Electricity Transmission plc (NGET) and National Grid Gas plc 
(NGG) 
 
I refer to your letter dated  26th June 2014 regarding the above proposed application. Having 
reviewed the Scoping report documents, I would like to make the following comments: 
 
National Grid Infrastructure within or in close proximity to the Proposed Order Limits 
 
National Grid Electricity Transmission 
 
National Grid Electricity Transmission has four high voltage electricity overhead transmission lines 
which lie within the proposed order limits. These lines form an essential part of the electricity 
transmission network in England and Wales and details are as follows: 
 
 
4YV-400kV Overhead Transmission Line – Pembroke- Walham 
    Pembroke- Swansea 
 
4YW- 400kV Overhead Transmission Line- Pembroke-Swansea 
 
4YW- 400kV Overhead Transmission Line- Clifynydd- Swansea 
 
4YU – 400kV Overhead Transmission Line- Pembroke- Walham 
     Clifynydd- Swansea 
 
 
National Grid house 
Warwick Technology Park 
Gallows Hill, Warwick 
CV34 6DA 
 
National Grid is a trading name for: 
National Grid is  a trading name for: 
National Grid Electricity Transmission plc 
National Grid Gas plc 
Registered Office: 1-3 Strand, London WC2N 5EH 
Registered Office: 1-3 Strand, London WC2N 5EH 
Registered in England and Wales, No 2366977 
Registered in England and Wales, No 2006000 
 
 
The following two substations are also located within the proposed order limits:  
 
 
Swansea North 400kV Substation 
 
Swansea North 275kV Substation 
 
I enclose plans showing the routes of our overhead line and the location of our substation within 
the area shown on the ‘DCO Site & Development Land Parcels’ plan.  
 
The following points should be taken into consideration: 
 
 
National Grid’s Overhead Line/s is protected by a Deed of Easement/Wayleave Agreement 
which provides full right of access to retain, maintain, repair and inspect our asset 
 
 
Statutory electrical safety clearances must be maintained at all times. Any proposed 
buildings must not be closer than 5.3m to the lowest conductor. National Grid recommends 
that no permanent structures are built directly beneath overhead lines. These distances are 
set out in EN 43 – 8 Technical Specification for “overhead line clearances Issue 3 (2004) 
available at: 
http://www.nationalgrid.com/uk/LandandDevelopment/DDC/devnearohl_final/appendixIII/ap
pIII-part2 
 
 
If any changes in ground levels are proposed either beneath or in close proximity to our 
existing overhead lines then this would serve to reduce the safety clearances for such 
overhead lines. Safe clearances for existing overhead lines must be maintained in all 
circumstances. 
 
 
The relevant guidance in relation to working safely near to existing overhead lines is 
contained within the Health and Safety Executive’s (www.hse.gov.uk)  Guidance Note GS 
6 “Avoidance of Danger from Overhead Electric Lines”  and all relevant site staff should 
make sure that they are both aware of and understand this guidance. 
 
 
Plant, machinery, equipment, buildings or scaffolding should not encroach within 5.3 
metres of any of our high voltage conductors when those conductors are under their worse 
conditions of maximum “sag” and “swing” and overhead line profile (maximum “sag” and 
“swing”) drawings should be obtained using the contact details above. 
 
 
If a landscaping scheme is proposed as part of the proposal, we request that only slow and 
low growing species of trees and shrubs are planted beneath and adjacent to the existing 
overhead line to reduce the risk of growth to a height which compromises statutory safety 
clearances. 
 
 
Drilling or excavation works should not be undertaken if they have the potential to disturb 
or adversely affect the foundations or “pillars of support” of any existing tower.  These 
foundations always extend beyond the base area of the existing tower and foundation 
(“pillar of support”) drawings can be obtained using the contact details above 
 
To view the Development Near Lines Documents. Please use the link below: 
 
National Grid house 
Warwick Technology Park 
Gallows Hill, Warwick 
CV34 6DA 
 
National Grid is a trading name for: 
National Grid is  a trading name for: 
National Grid Electricity Transmission plc 
National Grid Gas plc 
Registered Office: 1-3 Strand, London WC2N 5EH 
Registered Office: 1-3 Strand, London WC2N 5EH 
Registered in England and Wales, No 2366977 
Registered in England and Wales, No 2006000 
 
http://www2.nationalgrid.com/uk/services/land-and-development/planning-authority/development-
near-ohl/ 
 
National Grid Gas Transmission  
 
National Grid has three high pressure gas transmission pipelines and associated equipment 
located within and in close proximity to the proposed order limits. Details are as follows: 
 
 
FM28- Herbrandston- Felinfre 
 
FM28- Felindre- Three Cocks 
 
FM28- Felindre- Clifrew 
 
National Grid Gas Distribution 
 
National Grid has no gas distribution apparatus within the proposed order limits 
 
Specific Comments – Gas Infrastructure 
 
The following points should be taken into consideration: 
 
 
National Grid has a Deed of Grant of Easement for each pipeline, which prevents the 
erection of permanent / temporary buildings, or structures, change to existing ground 
levels, storage of materials etc.  
 
Pipeline Crossings: 
 
 
Where existing roads cannot be used, construction traffic should ONLY cross the pipeline 
at previously agreed locations.  
 
 
The pipeline shall be protected, at the crossing points, by temporary rafts constructed at 
ground level. The third party shall review ground conditions, vehicle types and crossing 
frequencies to determine the type and construction of the raft required.  
 
 
The type of raft shall be agreed with National Grid prior to installation. 
 
 
No protective measures including the installation of concrete slab protection shall be 
installed over or near to the National Grid pipeline without the prior permission of National 
Grid.  
 
 
National Grid will need to agree the material, the dimensions and method of installation of 
the proposed protective measure.  
 
 
The method of installation shall be confirmed through the submission of a formal written 
method statement from the contractor to National Grid. 
 
 
Please be aware that written permission is required before any works commence within the 
National Grid easement strip. 
 
 
National Grid house 
Warwick Technology Park 
Gallows Hill, Warwick 
CV34 6DA 
 
National Grid is a trading name for: 
National Grid is  a trading name for: 
National Grid Electricity Transmission plc 
National Grid Gas plc 
Registered Office: 1-3 Strand, London WC2N 5EH 
Registered Office: 1-3 Strand, London WC2N 5EH 
Registered in England and Wales, No 2366977 
Registered in England and Wales, No 2006000 
 
 
A National Grid representative shall monitor any works within close proximity to the 
pipeline to comply with National Grid specification T/SP/SSW22. 
 
A Deed of Consent is required for any crossing of the easement 
 
Cables Crossing: 
 
 
Cables may cross the pipeline at perpendicular angle to the pipeline i.e. 90 degrees. 
 
 
A National Grid representative shall supervise any cable crossing of a pipeline. 
 
 
Clearance must be at least 600mm above or below the pipeline. 
 
 
Impact protection slab should be laid between the cable and pipeline if cable crossing is 
above the pipeline. 
 
 
A Deed of Consent is required for any cable crossing the easement. 
 
 
Where a new service is to cross over the pipeline a clearance distance of 0.6 metres 
between the crown of the pipeline and underside of the service should be maintained. If 
this cannot be achieved the service shall cross below the pipeline with a clearance 
distance of 0.6 metres. 
 
General Notes on Pipeline Safety: 
 
You should be aware of the Health and Safety Executives guidance document HS(G) 47 
"Avoiding Danger from Underground Services", and National Grid’s specification for Safe 
Working in the Vicinity of National Grid High Pressure gas pipelines and associated 
installations - requirements for third parties T/SP/SSW22.  
 
National Grid will also need to ensure that our pipelines access is maintained during and 
after construction.  
 
Our pipelines are normally buried to a depth cover of 1.1 metres however; actual depth and 
position must be confirmed on site by trial hole investigation under the supervision of a 
National Grid representative. Ground cover above our pipelines should not be reduced or 
increased. 
 
 
If any excavations are planned within 3 metres of National Grid High Pressure Pipeline or, 
within 10 metres of an AGI (Above Ground Installation), or if any embankment or dredging 
works are proposed then the actual position and depth of the pipeline must be established 
on site in the presence of a National Grid representative. A safe working method agreed 
prior to any work taking place in order to minimise the risk of damage and ensure the final 
depth of cover does not affect the integrity of the pipeline. 
 
 
Excavation works may take place unsupervised no closer than 3 metres from the pipeline 
once the actual depth and position has been has been confirmed on site under the 
supervision of a National Grid representative. Similarly, excavation with hand held power 
tools is not permitted within 1.5 metres from our apparatus and the work is undertaken with 
NG supervision and guidance. 
 
To view the SSW22 Document, please use the link below: 
 
National Grid house 
Warwick Technology Park 
Gallows Hill, Warwick 
CV34 6DA 
 
National Grid is a trading name for: 
National Grid is  a trading name for: 
National Grid Electricity Transmission plc 
National Grid Gas plc 
Registered Office: 1-3 Strand, London WC2N 5EH 
Registered Office: 1-3 Strand, London WC2N 5EH 
Registered in England and Wales, No 2366977 
Registered in England and Wales, No 2006000 
 
http://www.nationalgrid.com/uk/LandandDevelopment/DDC/GasElectricNW/safeworking.htm 
 
To download a copy of the HSE Guidance HS(G)47, please use the following link: 
http://www.hse.gov.uk/pubns/books/hsg47.htm 
 
Further information in relation to National Grid’s gas transmission pipelines can be accessed via 
the following internet link:  
 
http://www.nationalgrid.com/uk/LandandDevelopment/DDC/gastransmission/gaspipes/ 
 
Further Advice 
 
We would request that the potential impact of the proposed scheme on National Grid’s 
existing assets as set out above is considered in any subsequent reports, including in the 
Environmental Statement, and as part of any subsequent application.  
 
Where the promoter intends to acquire land, extinguish rights, or interfere with any of 
National Grid apparatus protective provisions will be required in a form acceptable to it to 
be included within the DCO.  
 
Where any diversion of apparatus may be required to facilitate a scheme, National Grid is 
unable to give any certainty with the regard to diversions until such time as adequate 
conceptual design studies have been undertaken by National Grid. Further information 
relating to this can be obtained by contacting the email address below.  
 
National Grid requests to be consulted at the earliest stages to ensure that the most 
appropriate protective provisions are included within the DCO application to safeguard the 
integrity of our apparatus and to remove the requirement for objection. All consultations 
should be sent to the following: DCOConsultations@nationalgrid.com as well as by post to 
the following address: 
 
The Company Secretary  
1-3 The Strand 
London 
WC2N 5EH 
 
In order to respond at the earliest opportunity National Grid will require the following: 
 
 Draft DCO including the Book of Reference and relevant Land Plans 
 Shape Files or CAD Files for the order limits 
 
I hope the above information is useful. If you require any further information please do not hesitate 
to contact me.  
 
The information in this letter is provided not withstanding any discussions taking place in relation to 
connections with electricity or gas customer services.  
 
Yours sincerely
 
 
 
 
Laura Kelly 
 
(Submitted Electronically) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
Hannah Nelson
From:
ROSSI, Sacha <Sacha.Rossi@nats.co.uk>
Sent:
26 June 2014 17:17
To:
Environmental Services
Cc:
NATS Safeguarding
Subject:
RE: EN010069 Abergelli Power Project Scoping Consultation
Follow Up Flag:
Follow up
Flag Status:
Flagged
Dear Sir/Madam, 
 
NATS does not anticipate an impact from this development and has no comments to make. 
 
Regards 
S. Rossi 
NATS Safeguarding Office 
 
 
Mr Sacha Rossi 
ATC Systems Safeguarding Engineer  
  
: 01489 444 205 
: sacha.rossi@nats.co.uk   
  
NATS Safeguarding 
4000 Parkway, 
Whiteley, PO15 7FL 
  
http://www.nats.co.uk/windfarms  
 
 
 
From: Environmental Services [mailto:EnvironmentalServices@infrastructure.gsi.gov.uk]  
Sent: 26 June 2014 14:17 
To: NSIP.applications@hse.gsi.gov.uk; owenj@cyngorllanedicouncil.org; phil.owen@mawrcommunity.org.uk; 
officers@pontlliw-tircoed.org.uk; david.jenkins80@virgin.net; correspondence@equalityhumanrights.com; 
Hilary.Malaws@rcahmw.gov.uk; Baggy.Smailes@caa.co.uk; highways@swansea.co.uk; 
dptac.enquiries@dft.gsi.gov.uk; planningconsultation@coal.gov.uk; gail.harris@ofwat.gsi.gov.uk; 
NSIPconsultations@PHE.gov.uk; NATS Safeguarding; alans@espipelines.com; FPLplantprotection@fulcrum.co.uk; 
planning@npt.gov.uk; direct@carmarthenshire.gov.uk 
Subject: EN010069 Abergelli Power Project Scoping Consultation 
 
Dear Sir or Madam 
 
Please see attached correspondence in relation to the request for a Scoping Request for the 
proposed Abergelli Power Project. 
 
Kind Regards 
 
Jenny 
 
Jenny Colfer 
Senior EIA and Land Rights Advisor 
Major Applications and Plans 
 
www.cyfoethnaturiolcymru.gov.uk  
www.naturalresourceswales.gov.uk 
 
 
Maes Newydd, Britannic Way West, Llandarcy, Neath Port Talbot, SA10 6JQ 
 
Croesewir gohebiaeth yn y Gymraeg a'r Saesneg 
Correspondence welcomed in Welsh and English 
 
 
Ms Jenny Colfer 
Senior EIA and Land Rights Advisor on 
behalf of the Secretary of State 
The Planning Inspectorate 
3/18 Eagle Wing 
Temple Quay House 
2 The Square 
Bristol 
BS1 6PN 
 
    Ein cyf/Our ref: SH/2014/116929/01 
Eich cyf/Your ref: EN010069  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dyddiad/Date: 22 July 2014  
 
 
 
 
Annwyl/Dear Ms Colfer 
 
PLANNING ACT 2008 (AS AMENDED) AND THE INFRASTRUCTURE PLANNING 
(ENVIRONMENTAL 
IMPACT 
ASSESSMENT) 
REGULATIONS 
2009 
(AS 
AMENDED) – REGULATIONS 8 AND 9  
 
APPLICATION BY ABERGELLI POWER LIMITED FOR AN ORDER GRANTING 
DEVELOPMENT CONSENT FOR THE ABERGELLI POWER PROJECT 
 
Thank you for referring the above scoping opinion to Cyfoeth Naturiol Cymru 
(CNC)/Natural Resources Wales (NRW) which we received on 26 June 2014. 
 
Our advice and comments in relation to the above Nationally Significant 
Infrastructure Project (NSIP) are provided in the context of the full remit of NRW. As 
you are aware we are a statutory consultee under the Planning Act 2008, advising 
the decision maker on the land use planning implications of the development. For 
those developments which involve a regulated activity requiring an Environmental 
Permit under the Environmental Permitting Regulations 2010, NRW is the permitting 
authority. We wish to make you aware that we have different roles under different 
legislation which are independent of one another.  
 
Primarily we would question the need and benefit of such a development at the 
proposed location in relation to the current and predicted demand for electricity 
supply in South West Wales, given existing power stations, along with other 
proposed schemes (Abernedd, Swansea Bay Tidal Lagoon) and generation through 
renewables (wind and solar farms both existing and due to be developed 
imminently).  
 
 
 
2 
The proposals place the Simple Cycle Gas Turbine among what is beginning to 
develop into an area of renewable energy generation, which would not appear to be 
in fitting with solar and wind power already being generated and further proposed in 
the vicinity. The proposals suggest enough power being generated to power 400,000 
homes, yet the population of Swansea is less than 250,000. In addition to this, a 
Tidal Lagoon if developed will power 150,000 homes. There would not appear to be 
this level of demand in South West Wales and with regard to the proximity principle, 
such a development would be better suited to a more heavily industrialised area 
where demand is much greater. 
In view of the above, we would request to see justification as to why the 
development is proposed at this location. 
  
Environmental Permitting Regulations. 
 
The proposal will require an environmental permit to operate and a successful 
application will need to be made under the Environmental Permitting (England & 
Wales) Regulations 2010 (as amended) to determine whether the plant can be 
permitted. 
 
Pre-application discussions with Natural Resources Wales should commence 
immediately and applicants are encouraged to “twin track” environmental permit 
(EPR) applications with their Development Consent Order (DCO) applications in 
order to facilitate timely decision-making. 
 
NRW would also like to draw the applicant’s attention to Annex D of the Planning 
Inspectorate’s Advice Note 11: Working with Public Bodies which recommends 
that applicants should work towards submitting the EPR permit application at least 6 
months prior to the submission of an application for a DCO. 
 
Technology Selection 
Open (simple) cycle gas turbine (GT) operation is not usually considered to 
represent Best Available Technique (BAT) for normal power plant GT operation and 
rigorous justification of efficiency penalties would be required if this type of operation 
were to be proposed. 
 
The technology selection process should also consider the best achievable 
efficiency, in particular the potential for CHP (see below). It is noted that air cooled 
condensers or coolers are proposed as the cooling system for the project. Alternative 
cooling options need to be considered and technique selection justified based upon 
efficiency, water resources and waste water discharge as well as economic 
considerations. 
 
Combined Heat and Power (CHP) 
A combustion power plant with a thermal input of 50MW or more must include 
combined heat and power (CHP) or alternative be CHP-ready (The term CHP-Ready 
in this context represents a plant which is initially configured to generate electrical 
power only but which is designed to be ready, with minimum modification, to supply 
heat in the future). 
 
 
3 
Guidance on determining BAT for CHP readiness can be found in the Environment 
Agency guidance document: CHP Ready Guidance for Combustion and Energy 
from Waste Power Plants 
 
Accident Management 
Flood risk assessment – should include consideration of surface water drainage 
impacts and options for improving site surface water drainage to prevent localised 
flooding during extreme rainfall events. 
 
Air Quality (AQ) Assessment 
The proposals are noted and the applicant is advised that particular attention should 
be given to acid and nutrient deposition at sensitive habitat receptors. 
 
NRW agrees with the use of AQTAG06 to reference methodologies in relation to 
aerial emission process contributions on protected sites (as in section 5.3.18).  
However, the applicant should be aware that AQTAG06 methodologies are no longer 
used for calculating acid deposition figures as a function of relevant critical loads.  
The applicant should instead use the APIS critical load function tool found at 
http://www.apis.ac.uk/critical-load-function-tool, in order to calculate acid deposition 
process contributions/exceedences.  Please note, the methodology relating to 
Nitrogen deposition is unchanged from that described in AQTAG06. 
 
The village of Llangyfelach is just outside of the proposed consultation distance of 
1km, though is in direct line of site to the proposed development and is a densely 
populated residential receptor. The scope of the Environmental Impact Assessment 
should widen to include any impact upon this village in addition to any cumulative 
impact in relation to air quality arising from other sources of pollution e.g. the M4 
motorway, the A48, B4489 and Morriston Crematorium 
 
Noise Impact Assessment 
The noise assessment baseline assessment (5.4.3) states that the “The closest 
NSRs within 1 km of the Project Site include those within the nearby settlements of 
Morriston, Pant-lasau, Llwyncelyn and Felindre. In addition there are also isolated 
dwellings and farmsteads outside of the settlements including but not exclusive to: 
Aber gelli fawr; Abergelli Farm; Cefn-betingau; Maes-eglwys; Lletty Morfil Farm; 
Felin-wen; Pont Felinwen; Pontbren Llwyd; Gors-wen; Llety’r Bugall; Brynheulog; 
Taironen; Penfedi Uchaf; Penidy Isaf; Gellyfedden; Rhos fawr; Brynawel; 
Brynwhilhach; and Lletty’r-scil. “ 
 
However, the assessment needs to clearly identify the NSR, as some of the above 
receptors are much closer than the 1km outlined. It is important to note that NRW 
would carry out the assessments at the nearest receptor to the installation as 
outlined in the BS4142:1997 Method of Rating Industrial Noise Affecting Mixed 
Residential and Industrial Areas. 
 
The report also states that the location of the baseline assessment/s will be agreed 
with the local EHO. This being the case this discussion on monitoring locations 
needs to also be communicated with NRW as the installation will require an A1 EPR 
Permit from NRW which will also include noise conditions. 
 
 
4 
The report does reference the BS4142 standard in assessing noise, which should 
also consider noise characteristics. This being the case it is recommended that the 
company also capture the existing noise characteristics. I.e. tonal assessment/third 
octave baseline data. 
 
We would recommend that this is carried out as part of the baseline to identify, firstly 
any existing tonal issues and subsequently would be beneficial in identifying the 
impact of the operation on the noise environment once in operation. Due to the type 
of operation we (NRW) have experienced noise issues as a result of the tonal 
aspects rather than the actual increase in noise level. There is another procedure 
which we and the Local Authority use to identify low frequency noise (20Hz – 
160Hz). The “DEFRA NANR45 Procedure for the assessment of low frequency 
noise complaints” is used but it is important that the company also reference other 
standards: “BS 7445:1991 Part 2 – Description and measurement of 
environmental noise”, suggests that if the level in one 1/3rd octave band is 5dB or 
more higher than the level in the two adjacent bands, then an audible tone is likely to 
be perceived. The “ISO 1996-2:2007 Description, measurement and assessment 
of environmental noise Part 2” can be used to measure with any frequency 
weighting or in any frequency band. The standard also outlines how to evaluate the 
uncertainty of the result of a noise assessment. Section 5.4.17 of the scoping report 
also states: “Operational noise from the Electrical Connection has been scoped out 
as there would be no significant effects associated with the potential for a low level 
electrical hum emanating from an overhead line option, if one is required. In addition 
if a SEC is required, any low level electrical hum associated with the infrastructure 
will not be perceptible at the NSRs and therefore this has also been scoped out of 
the assessment.” 
 
This states that low frequency noise aspects has been scoped out for the overhead 
lines, however it is important to understand why this has been scoped out and how 
was this conclusion made, this justification needs to be provided for assessment. 
Based on the inclusion of frequency analysis of the background data, this statement 
could be verified after commissioning to ensure that the operation has not introduced 
an additional noise aspect. 
 
Section 5.4.1 of the scoping report states: “During operation, mitigation measures 
could include the use of silencers on the loudest plant items within the Generating 
Equipment.” Noise mitigation measures on an EPR Installation should be in 
accordance with our (EA/NRW) Horizontal Guidance Note (H3) Part 2 – Noise 
Assessment and Control. 
 
In relation to the noise assessment there is another piece of legislation that has not 
been outlined, the requirements of the Environmental Noise Directive which were 
given legal force in Wales through the Environmental Noise (Wales) (Amendment) 
Regulations 2009. These regulations have introduced a “Noise Action Plan for 
Wales” which does cover industrial noise sources and impacts on designated Quiet 
Areas. The plan also considers the impact of creeping background especially with 
the introduction of new sources of noise into the environment. It is suggested that as 
part of the noise impact assessment the above standards and regulations are given 
due consideration by the applicant. 
 
 
5 
In relation to the impact of operational noise from the installation, this is quite limited, 
and should consider all modes of operation from the installation. The application 
does state that the applicant will consider worst case scenarios for the modelling 
however has not explicitly stated what would be the worst case. Construction Noise 
will be covered by the Local Authority. 
 
The majority of the environmental noise from the operation will be assessed using 
the BS4142:1997 Standard, however an important factor to consider is that this 
standard is being reviewed and the new draft consultation has been passed, 
therefore the new updated version could be available in the next 6 months. The new 
draft standard introduces number of changes, e.g. duration of monitoring times. 
 
In relation to the design aspects of the plant, we would suggest that the applicant 
designs the operation with no additional noise load on to background in line with the 
“Noise Action Plan for Wales”. Noise mitigation measures should also include 
reference to use of acoustic enclosures and cladding for plant and pipe work or 
ducting likely to produce noise under all operating conditions including abnormal 
operation. 
 
Site Condition 
Site survey work undertaken should take into account current environmental 
permitting and likely future requirements under the Industrial Emissions Directive 
(IED) to undertake intrusive works to gather baseline contamination data as part of 
the environmental permitting process. 
 
Water Quality  
 
Water Quality (WQ) Impact Assessment 
Assessment of WQ impacts should also include consideration of periodic or 
intermittent waste water effluent arising from commissioning procedures, HRSG 
make up water treatment, plant maintenance and cleaning procedures and cooling 
system blow down in the event that wet or hybrid cooling technology is considered to 
be appropriate. 
 
Water treatment and recovery options should be considered in addition to treatment 
and discharge. 
 
Surface Waters 
 
Section 5.6.3 of the report refers to the Afon Llan being the main watercourse that 
traverses the project site through Swansea and into Swansea Bay. The Llan in fact 
discharges to the Loughor Estuary on North Gower via Penllergaer, Fforestfach and 
Gowerton. Shellfish are harvested in the vicinity and so any impact assessment 
should also consider any potential for impact upon Designated Shellfisheries. 
Section 5.6.9 states that “There are not anticipated to be any significant impacts on 
key waterbodies resulting from the project through physical works to them. It is also 
not anticipated that water will be abstracted or discharged to or from any of these 
sources during construction, operation or decommissioning”. In which case, where 
will cooling water be derived from and where will waste water be discharged to?  
 
 
6 
Section 5.6.18 then states that “during operation, NRW would set limits on the quality 
of water that is discharged from the Power Generation Plant under an Environmental 
Permit”. The EIA should therefore consider the impacts of any discharge to a 
watercourse, with particular regard to the effects of temperature and the addition of 
biocides or chlorination etc. of cooling waters. The temperature of a discharge can 
be critical to fish migration and so any discharge must not be above 21oC beyond the 
mixing zone in order to prevent a temperature barrier from being created. 
Temperature also has a bearing on the fate and behaviour of ammonia, amongst 
other physical and chemical characteristics, in the water environment and the Afon 
Llan is not without other water quality impacts from, for example, sewage pollution. 
An increase in temperature could therefore have a downstream impact upon 
ammonia. This will need to be assessed. 
The Afon Llan is a very flashy rapid response catchment in terms of the way in which 
it reacts to rainfall and so this would need to be considered in relation to any 
construction and mitigation proposals. In recent years the river has been significantly 
impacted by silt pollution arising from several development schemes. We would 
need to be satisfied that any proposals would adequately mitigate against the 
possibility of further pollution e.g. from stripping and exposure of materials, 
increasing run-off rates and/or the location and protection of stockpile locations. The 
drainage of any constructed access roads should be designed to prevent silt/mud 
contaminated run-off from entering any watercourses. 
Any proposals should also consider the installation of temporary attenuation ponds 
to allow adequate settlement of site generated run-off during the construction and 
decommissioning phases. The design of these ponds should demonstrate that 
adequate retention and settlement time has been calculated. Silt fencing, scour 
protection and Sedimats alone have been proven to be ineffective in mitigation in this 
catchment due to its flashy nature. 
Any surface water disposal scheme would need to demonstrate that it will not cause 
any impact upon the local watercourses upon discharge e.g. silt run-off from any 
retention ponds, storage tanks, soakaways, swales, wetlands etc. We would advise 
that all disposal techniques be explored and are demonstrated as fit for purpose for 
all parts of the site.  
Flood Consequence Assessment  
A small part of the site is located within flood zone C2, as defined by the 
development advice maps referred to under TAN 15 Development and Flood Risk 
(July 2004). Our Flood Map information, which is updated on a quarterly basis, 
confirms this part of the site to be at risk of flooding in the 1% flood event. 
  
A number of ordinary watercourses cross the site and a small section runs adjacent 
to the Main River Llan. Section 5.6.2 of the scoping report indicates that a Flood 
Consequences Assessment (FCA) will be submitted as a separate document. This 
should assess the flood risk at the site and as a result of the development in line with 
TAN15 guidelines. We would be in favour of this approach and strongly advise that 
the developer consults with both ourselves and the Lead Local Flood Authority 
(LLFA) concerning the site as mentioned in the report. 
 
 
 
7 
The impact of the development upon surface water will also need to be considered 
as part of the FCA as mentioned in section 5.6.8.   
 
The developer should also be aware that any works which affect the flow in the 
ordinary watercourses across the site may require prior consent from the Lead Local 
Flood Authority (LLFA) and any works in, under, over or within 7m from the Afon Llan 
will require prior consent from NRW. 
 
Groundwater (in addition to surface waters)  
 
Our mapping system indicates various groundwater vulnerability zones and minor 
aquifers at the proposed location. A thorough assessment of the historic mine 
workings would need to be conducted to ensure that development would not 
potentially disturb or contaminate groundwater and surface waters in the vicinity. 
Likewise, a geophysical survey should determine the local geological setting to 
ensure that new pathways are not created that could cause contamination. 
This should also be a consideration when dealing with the landfill at the location. 
Although this landfill was operated as an inert landfill, this is not to say that it is 
exclusively filled with inert wastes. Any disturbance, or excavation, reuse, temporary 
storage and disposal of this material should not preclude the possibility of it 
containing non-inert and potentially hazardous substances. An assessment of this 
element of the scheme may be necessary in the form of trial pits or boreholes in 
order to determine materials present. NRW should be made aware of any adverse 
findings. 
The scoping report does not appear to mention foul water drainage arrangements. 
There is no mains sewer in the vicinity of this proposed development. Details of how 
sewage and other waste waters will be managed at the site need to be included and 
again, assessment of whether there is likely to be any impact arising from this upon 
receiving waters.  
Waste Arisings 
 
Section 5.7.12 states that “using the information obtained, suitable remediation 
strategies will be developed to render the Project Site ready for development. These 
will include estimates of the types and volumes of waste material that will need to be 
removed from the Project Site prior to development”. The development is likely to 
generate significant quantities of waste. The reuse/recovery of as much of this 
should be considered as part of the scheme within the spirit of the Waste Hierarchy 
i.e. 1. Reduction, 2. Reuse, 3. Recovery (Recycling, Composting, Incineration or 
landfill with energy recovery), 4. Rubbish (Incinerate, Landfill – contained, Landfill – 
dilute and disperse). A cost benefit analysis of using suitable waste versus virgin 
materials should be considered. The Site Waste Management Strategy should 
encompass the above principles. 
Ecology 
 
We welcome the submission of the report entitled ‘Abergelli Power Project – 
Preliminary Ecological Appraisal’, produced by BSG Ecology, dated March 2014.  
 
 
 
 
8 
Species 
We note that a Phase 1 Habitat Survey of the site has been conducted, which 
highlighted the habitats on site and its potential to support protected or notable 
species. We support the recommendation that further species surveys will be carried 
out (as detailed in sections 5.12-5.38 of the above report).  We advise that all 
surveys are carried out following best practice, up to date guidelines and conducted 
by qualified, experienced and (where necessary) licensed ecologists at appropriate 
times of the year. 
 
We note that in sections 4.46 and 5.22 of the report that it has been identified that 
some of the watercourses may offer resting/lying up sites for otter, along with some 
commuting use. We note that no further survey work of the watercourses for otter 
potential is proposed to be carried out. As you are aware, Otter are fully protected 
under Schedule 2 of the Conservation of Habitats and Species Regulations 2010 
which includes protection of their breeding or resting sites. We advise that further 
survey work is considered at the site in the areas identified with suitability to support 
otters.  
 
Please note that we cannot provide any comment on issues relating to Badgers at 
the site as we have no received the confidential version of the report as stated in 
section 4.5.1.   
 
Habitats 
We note from the report that the site is a very significant locally important site, with 
marshy grassland/wet heath and ancient woodland habitats present as outlined in 
the report.   
 
We welcome the re-surveying of these habitats during Spring/Summer, given the 
proximity to known sites surrounding the area. Given the quality of the habitat 
present as surveyed in the Phase 1 habitat survey, we recommend early discussions 
with your local authority’s Planning Ecologist with a view to avoiding destruction of 
the most significant habitats and mitigation and/or compensation for loss of any 
significant habitats.  We would also welcome justification on the choice of habitat to 
be destroyed/removed as part of the planning application and justification on why the 
development cannot be constructed on the improved land only. 
 
We hold a record of a Phase 2 grassland survey of the fields which lie adjacent to 
the proposed access track. We will be able to provide this information to the 
developer should it be required. Please get in touch if you would like a copy of this 
survey. 
 
We note in section 5.7.2 of the main scoping report that there is a brief mention of 
peat present on site. We seek clarification and further detail on the location of the 
peat on site and how it will be affected by the development.   
 
The proposals have the potential to affect riverine and wetland habitats as there are 
a number of watercourses on the site including the Afon Llan. We would like the 
EIA to consider these as a separate habitat and look at options for maintaining open 
watercourses with wide buffer strips.  
 
 
9 
Diversion of small watercourses would be preferable to culverting them as long as 
the new watercourses are well designed to offer the best habitat for wildlife. 
Connectivity between small watercourses, areas of retained wetland habitat and the 
Afon Llan should also be a consideration for the final site layout and any mitigation 
proposed. NRW Biodiversity staff are happy to offer further advice on these matters, 
should it be required. 
 
Landscape and Visual Impact Assessment 
 
We welcome that a Landscape and Visual Assessment (LVIA) will be conducted, 
following the most up to date guidelines as outlined in section 5.8.7 of the main scoping 
report. 
 
The EIA must include a description of all the existing landscape interests within and in 
the vicinity of the proposed development. This should be done using former Countryside 
Council for Wales’ LANDMAP methodology (www.landmap.ccw.gov.uk).  LANDMAP is 
an all-Wales GIS based landscape resource where landscape characteristics, qualities 
and influences on the landscape are recorded and evaluated into a nationally consistent 
data set. LANDMAP comprises five spatially related datasets known as Evaluated 
Aspects; the five layers are the Geological Landscape, Landscape Habitats, Visual & 
Sensory, Historic Landscape and Cultural Landscape. All information is managed 
through a Geographical Information System and associated Collector database. 
 
Where all five layers of LANDMAP data for the local authority are available, they should 
all be referred to. If the developer experiences difficulty in getting this data from the 
LANDMAP website it should be possible for the data to be obtained by contacting Jill 
Bullen, our LANDMAP Wales Coordinator at our Bangor offices. NRW would expect any 
Environmental Statement (ES) to demonstrate use of all five data sets in the LVIA for 
the application. We recommend that the impacts of any development proposals on the 
landscape character of the area and its visual effects are assessed against the findings 
of this study. 
 
Such issues should all be addressed in the ES and visual appraisal of the scheme in 
addition to specific site issues such as: 
 
• Development infrastructure – including cabling, ancillary buildings, working 
compounds should all be considered in the assessment, even if ‘temporary’ (i.e. only 
for the duration of construction works). 
• The removal and disposal of any excavated materials such as soil or rock; 
• Creation of new access tracks and re-profiling of existing ones;  
• Transmission route connections to the main power grid; it is important that a 
landscape assessment of the connection route from the development to the power 
grid is included for consideration 
 
The ES should also consider the presence of any historic landscapes in the area and 
the potential impact that the proposed development may have on these, which is noted 
in section 5.8.7 of the report.  
 
 
 
10 
The ES should consider protected landscapes in the vicinity of the proposals. It is vital 
that the LVIA utilises appropriate viewpoints to consider the impacts of the proposals on 
these protected landscapes as there is potential for it to be visible from a wide area 
surrounding it. We note that section 5.8.11 refers to a follow up consultation with the 
relevant stakeholders on a selection of photomontages from key sensitive viewpoints. 
NRW would be happy to provide advice on these viewpoints. It is noted that some 
viewpoints have been suggested; however these do not include detailed grid references 
therefore we cannot comment on their suitability at this stage. We advise that 
consideration is made for an additional viewpoint from the Brecon Beacons National 
Park. We note that the Gower Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty (AONB) has been 
scoped out of the assessment as it is visually separated from the project site by 
intervening topography. 
 
We advise that views in photographs and photomontages taken to assist with this 
process should be representative of that observed from each viewpoint and not partially 
obscured by structures such as buildings, pylons, telegraph poles, trees etc.  
 
The ES should also consider the potential impact of any proposed lighting impacts upon 
receptors in the vicinity of the project. The development has the potential to significantly 
increase the level of light pollution in the area. We advise that a night time visual effects 
is carried out to assess the level of night time illumination (should there be any).   
 
Habitats Regulation Assessment  
 
We welcome that a Habitats Regulation Assessment (HRA) will be conducted as 
outlined in sections 5.5.28 – 5.5.30 of the report. The HRA must follow the consultation 
process as set out in the Planning Inspectorate’s Advice Note 10: Habitat 
Regulations Assessment relevant to nationally significant infrastructure projects 
(Link below).  
 
(http://infrastructure.planningportal.gov.uk/wp-content/uploads/2013/09/Advice-note-10-
HRA.pdf). 
 
We hope the above comments are helpful, however, if you have any further queries 
please do not hesitate to contact me at the address below. 
 
Yn gywir / Yours sincerely 
 
 
 
Hannah Thomas 
Ymgynghorydd Cynllunio Datblygu / Development Planning Advisor 
Abertawe, Castell Nedd Port Talbot / Swansea, Neath Port Talbot 
 
Ebost/Email Hannah.Thomas@cyfoethnaturiolcymru.gov.uk 
Ffôn/Tel 03000 65 3358 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                    23rd June 2014 
 
01639 686726 
 
c.j.davies@neath-porttalbot.gov.uk 
 
 
Mr.C J Davies 
 
The Planning Inspectorate 
3/18 Eagle Wing 
Temple Quay House 
2 The Square 
Bristol  
BS1 6PN 
 
Your Ref: EN010069 
 
Scoping consultation for a SCGT gas fired ‘peaking’ power generating plant capable 
of providing up to 299 MW comprising: the Generating Equipment, Access Road 
and temporary Laydown Area submitted under the Planning Act 2008 (as amended) 
and the Infrastructure Planning (EIA) Regulations 2009 (as amended) 
 
Thank you for your consultation of the 26th June 2014 in relation to the above.  
 
Neath Port Talbot County Borough Council offer no comments on the acceptability of the 
Scoping Report submitted for the above project. I enclose a copy of the report, that sets 
out the responses provided to our own internal consultation. 
 
As the development is located approximately 5.6km from the administrative boundary it is 
unlikely that this development would result in any cross boundary impacts. As such we 
would advise you that we would not wish to be consulted on any future 
applications/consultations on this project, unless the proposals alter significantly. 
 
Yours Faithfully 
 
 
C. Davies 
Team Leader 
Development Management.  
Officer Report 
 
 
Page 1 of 3 
 
Report Template 
 
Application Reference: P2014/0631 
 
 
Planning History: 
 
N/A.  
 
Publicity and Responses if applicable: 
 
Biodiversity Section- No Objection.  
 
Air Quality- No Objection.  
 
Head of Engineering and Transport, Highway Section- No reply, 
therefore no observations to make.  
 
Description of Site and its Surroundings: 
 
The proposed development is located close to Felindre in the City and 
County of Swansea, approximately 5.6km from this Authority’s 
administrative boundary.  
 
Brief description of proposal:  
 
The current consultation is from the Planning Inspectorate in relation to 
The Planning Act 2008 (as amended) and the Infrastructure Planning 
(Environmental Impact Assessment) Regulations 2009 (as amended) – 
Regulations 8 and 9. 
 
The Project comprises; 
 
A new Power Generation Plant in the form of a Simple Cycle Gas 
Turbine (SCGT) gas fired peaking power generating station fuelled by 
natural gas and capable of providing an electrical capacity of up to 
299 Megawatts (MW) comprising: 
 
 The Generating Equipment including the Gas Turbine 
Generators and Balance of Plant which are located on the 
Generating Equipment Site; 
 
A new purpose built Access Road either from the Rhyd-y-pandy 
Road to the north (Access Road – Option 1) or the B4489 to the 
Officer Report 
 
 
Page 2 of 3 
 
west (Access Road – Option 2) to the Generating Equipment 
Site; and 
 
During construction a temporary construction compound (the 
Laydown Area). 
 
 A new Gas Connection to bring natural gas to the Generating 
Equipment from either the National Transmission System (NTS) or 
the Local Transmission System (LTS), which is located within the 
Gas Opportunity Area; and 
 
A new Electrical Connection to export power from the Generating 
Equipment to the National Grid Electricity Transmission System 
(NETS) for distribution to homes and businesses 
 
In terms of the process, The Planning Act 2008 (as amended by the 
Localism Act 2011) made significant changes to the planning system for 
major infrastructure projects such as this. An application must therefore 
be made for the development as a National Strategic Infrastructure 
Project (NSIP) to the Planning Inspectorate (PINS) for permission under 
a development consent order (DCO) from the Secretary of State for 
Energy and Climate Change. 
 
This consultation seeks the Authority’s view of the scope of the EIA to 
support this application at a pre-application stage.  
 
Material Considerations: 
 
 
Any potential impacts that will require to be assessed as part of the sope 
of the supporting ES submitted with any future planning application for 
the above development.  
 
Policy Context: 
n/a 
 
Content of Scoping Report. 
 
The site is located such a distance from this Authority’s boundary that it 
unlikely to result in any cross boundary impacts, and therefore we have 
no significant comment to provide on the adequacy of the scoping report.  
 
The Air Quality Section have been consulted, as have the Highway 
Section, and Biodiversity Section, as these are the main potential areas of 
the ES that could have cross-boundary impacts.  
Officer Report 
 
 
Page 3 of 3 
 
 
The consultees offer no objection, and confirm that there is a low 
potential for any impacts from the development affected Neath Port 
Talbot.  
 
 
 
Others (including objections): 
 
Not applicable. 
 
Conclusion: 
 
The Authority has no comment to offer on the Scoping Report carried out 
by the Applicant. 
 
Recommendation: 
 
No Comments.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
Hannah Nelson
From:
Hodgson Helen <Helen.Hodgson@networkrail.co.uk>
Sent:
21 July 2014 13:42
To:
Environmental Services
Subject:
Abergelli Power Limited Development Consent Order - Scoping Consultation (Your 
Ref. EN010069)
Follow Up Flag:
Follow up
Flag Status:
Flagged
Dear Ms Colfer, 
 
I refer to your letter dated 26th June 2014 in respect of the Scoping Consultation being undertaken on Abergelli Power 
Limited’s application for a Development Consent Order in relation to the proposed power generation plant and 
associated underground gas pipeline infrastructure and access road.  The following outlines Network Rail’s 
comments: 
 
Network Rail is the statutory undertaker responsible for maintaining and operating the country’s railway infrastructure 
and associated estate.  It owns, operates, maintains and develops the main rail network.  Network Rail aims to protect 
and enhance the railway infrastructure and therefore any proposed development which is in close vicinity to the 
railway line, or could potentially affect Network Rail’s specific land interests, will be carefully considered.  
 
The physical railway infrastructure must be protected and the development must ensure that it does not have an 
adverse affect upon the safety of the railway line.  This may be through increased usage of a level crossing or rail 
bridge by construction traffic associated with the proposed development or disruption to rail services during 
installation or maintenance of the overhead lines across the railway line.  If there is any impact upon rail infrastructure 
this must be examined and addressed within Abergelli Power Limited’s Environmental Statement. 
 
Any proposals that include the installation of cables under or over the railway, any methods of electricity 
transmissions across Network Rail’s land, or any access rights, temporary or otherwise will require the necessary 
property agreements to be entered into with our Easements and Wayleaves Team who can be contacted on 
easements&wayleaves@networkrail.co.uk . Please note that Network Rail will seek protection from the exercise of 
compulsory purchase powers over operational land whether for permanent or temporary purposes. 
 
Network Rail would have strong concerns if, during the construction or operation of the power generation plant, 
abnormal loads would use routes that include Network Rail assets (e.g. level crossings, bridges etc) and would advise 
that contact is made with our Asset Protection Engineers to confirm if any proposed route is viable.  A strategy must 
also be agreed to protect our assets from potential damage caused by abnormal loads in association with the 
implementation of the Abergelli Power Project.  I would also advise that where damage, injury or delay to the rail 
network is caused by abnormal load (related to the development), Abergelli Power Limited or relevant contractors 
would incur full liability.  
 
Notwithstanding the above, to mitigate the risks outlined above, Abergelli Power Limited must contact Network Rail’s 
Asset Protection Team (assetprotectionwales@networkrail.co.uk) well in advance of commencing any works. 
 
Although this consultation considers the scope of the Environmental Statement, we would also take this opportunity to 
highlight that Network Rail will expect to see its standard Protective Provisions in a schedule to the Development 
Consent Order, which is well precedented in both TWAOs and DCOs. 
 
Please don’t hesitate to contact me if you require any further information in relation to the above.  
 
I would be grateful if you could confirm receipt of this email. 
 
Kind regards 
 
Helen Hodgson 
 
21/7/2014 
 
2
 
 
Helen Hodgson MRTPI 
Town Planner (Wales), Property 
5th Floor, 5 Callaghan Square 
Cardiff, CF10 5BT 
 
M  +44 (0) 7850 406959 
E   helen.hodgson@networkrail.co.uk 
 
www.networkrail.co.uk/property 
 
**************************************************************************************
**************************************************************************  
The content of this email (and any attachment) is confidential. It may also be legally privileged or otherwise 
protected from disclosure.  
This email should not be used by anyone who is not an original intended recipient, nor may it be copied or 
disclosed to anyone who is not an original intended recipient.  
If you have received this email by mistake please notify us by emailing the sender, and then delete the email 
and any copies from your system.  
Liability cannot be accepted for statements made which are clearly the sender's own and not made on behalf 
of Network Rail.  
Network Rail Infrastructure Limited registered in England and Wales No. 2904587, registered office Kings 
Place, 90 York Way London N1 9AG  
**************************************************************************************
**************************************************************************  
 
This email was scanned by the Government Secure Intranet anti-virus service supplied by Vodafone in 
partnership with Symantec. (CCTM Certificate Number 2009/09/0052.) In case of problems, please call 
your organisations IT Helpdesk. 
Communications via the GSi may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for legal purposes. 
********************************************************************** 
Correspondents should note that all communications to Department for Communities and Local Government may be automatically logged, 
monitored and/or recorded for lawful purposes. 
********************************************************************** 
  
 
 
 
NSIP Consultations 
CRCE 
Chilton, Didcot 
Oxon OX11 0RQ 
 
 
T  +44 (0)1235 831600 
 
 
www.gov.uk/phe 
 
 
 
FAO: Jenny Colfer 
The Planning Inspectorate 
3/18 Eagle Wing 
Temple Quay House 
2 The Square 
Bristol 
BS1 6PN 
 
23rd July 2014 
 
 
 
Dear Jenny, 
 
 
Re: Abergelli Power Project – Scoping Consultation 
 
 
Thank you for including Public Health England (PHE) in the scoping consultation 
phase of the above application.  Our response focuses on health protection issues 
relating to chemicals and radiation.  Advice offered by PHE is impartial and 
independent. 
In order to ensure that health is fully and comprehensively considered, the 
Environmental Statement (ES) should provide sufficient information to allow the 
potential impact of the development on public health to be fully assessed. 
PHE, which includes PHE’s Centre for Radiation, Chemical and Environmental 
Hazards (Wales), has evaluated the submitted Environmental Impact Assessment 
Scoping Report (June 2014) alongside the request for a scoping opinion and can 
confirm that the proposed methodology for assessing possible impacts affecting 
human health and the mitigation measures suggested so far appear acceptable. 
However, the Environmental Impact Assessment report should also include possible 
risks on human health due to electric and magnetic fields (EMFs) produced by the 
electrical connection system and other electrical equipment. 
In order to assist the promoter in the production of the Environmental Impact 
Assessment report (i.e. subsequent ES) we have included an appendix which 
outlines the generic considerations that PHE advises should be addressed by all 
promoters when they are preparing ESs for NSIPs.  The ES report should include 
Your Ref: EN010069 
Our Ref: 140626 331 
any cumulative impacts upon the local vicinity that may occur during the lifetime of 
the proposed project.  
PHE will provide further comments when the ES becomes available. Should the 
promoter or their agents wish to discuss our recommendations or to seek any 
specific advice prior to the submission of the ES, PHE would of course be pleased to 
assist. 
Yours sincerely 
 
Antonio Peña-Fernández 
Health Protection Scientist 
 
nsipconsultations@phe.gov.uk 
 
Please mark any correspondence for the attention of National Infrastructure Planning 
Administration. 
Appendix: PHE recommendations regarding the scoping document 
General approach  
The EIA should give consideration to best practice guidance such as the 
Government’s Good Practice Guide for EIA1. It is important that the EIA identifies 
and assesses the potential public health impacts of the activities at, and emissions 
from, the installation. Assessment should consider the development, operational, 
and decommissioning phases. 
The EIA Directive2 requires that ESs include a description of the aspects of the 
environment likely to be significantly affected by the development, including 
“population”. The EIA should provide sufficient information for PHE to fully assess 
the potential impact of the development on public health. PHE will only consider 
information contained or referenced in a separate section of the ES 
summarising the impact of the proposed development on public health: 
summarising risk assessments, proposed mitigation measures, and residual impacts. 
This section should summarise key information and conclusions relating to human 
health impacts contained in other sections of the application (e.g. in the separate 
sections dealing with: air quality, emissions to water, waste, contaminated land etc.) 
without undue duplication. Compliance with the requirements of National Policy 
Statements and relevant guidance and standards should be highlighted.  
It is not PHE’s role to undertake these assessments on behalf of promoters as this 
would conflict with PHE’s role as an impartial and independent body. 
Consideration of alternatives (including alternative sites, choice of process, and the 
phasing of construction) is widely regarded as good practice. Ideally, EIA should 
start at the stage of site and process selection, so that the environmental merits of 
practicable alternatives can be properly considered. Where this is undertaken, the 
main alternatives considered should be outlined in the ES3. 
The following text covers a range of issues that PHE would expect to be addressed 
by the promoter. However this list is not exhaustive and the onus is on the promoter 
to ensure that the relevant public health issues are identified and addressed. PHE’s 
advice and recommendations carry no statutory weight and constitute non-binding 
guidance. 
Receptors 
The ES should clearly identify the development’s location and the location and 
distance from the development of off-site human receptors that may be affected by 
emissions from, or activities at, the development. Off-site human receptors may 
include people living in residential premises; people working in commercial, and 
                                            
1 Environmental Impact Assessment: A guide to good practice and procedures - A consultation paper; 2006; Department for 
Communities and Local Government. Available from: 
http://www.communities.gov.uk/archived/publications/planningandbuilding/environmentalimpactassessment  
2 Directive 85/337/EEC (as amended) on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the 
environment. Available from: http://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=CONSLEG:1985L0337:20090625:EN:PDF  
3 DCLG guidance, 1999 http://www.communities.gov.uk/documents/planningandbuilding/pdf/155958.pdf  
industrial premises and people using transport infrastructure (such as roads and 
railways), recreational areas, and publicly-accessible land. Consideration should also 
be given to environmental receptors such as the surrounding land, watercourses, 
surface and groundwater, and drinking water supplies such as wells, boreholes and 
water abstraction points. 
Impacts arising from construction and decommissioning 
Any assessment of impacts arising from emissions due to construction and 
decommissioning should consider potential impacts on all receptors and describe 
monitoring and mitigation during these phases. Construction and decommissioning 
will be associated with vehicle movements and cumulative impacts should be 
accounted for. 
We would expect the promoter to follow best practice guidance during all phases 
from construction to decommissioning to ensure appropriate measures are in place 
to mitigate any potential impact on health from emissions (point source, fugitive and 
traffic-related). An effective Construction Environmental Management Plan (CEMP) 
(and Decommissioning Environmental Management Plan (DEMP)) will help provide 
reassurance that activities are well managed. The promoter should ensure that there 
are robust mechanisms in place to respond to any complaints of traffic-related 
pollution, during construction, operation, and decommissioning of the facility. 
Emissions to air and water 
Significant impacts are unlikely to arise from installations which employ Best 
Available Techniques (BAT) and which meet regulatory requirements concerning 
emission limits and design parameters. However, PHE has a number of comments 
regarding emissions in order that the EIA provides a comprehensive assessment of 
potential impacts. 
When considering a baseline (of existing environmental quality) and in the 
assessment and future monitoring of impacts these: 
 should include appropriate screening assessments and detailed dispersion 
modelling where this is screened as necessary  
 should encompass all pollutants which may be emitted by the installation in 
combination with all pollutants arising from associated development and 
transport, ideally these should be considered in a single holistic assessment 
 should consider the construction, operational, and decommissioning phases 
 should consider the typical operational emissions and emissions from start-up, 
shut-down, abnormal operation and accidents when assessing potential impacts 
and include an assessment of worst-case impacts 
 should fully account for fugitive emissions 
 should include appropriate estimates of background levels 
 should identify cumulative and incremental impacts (i.e. assess cumulative 
impacts from multiple sources), including those arising from associated 
development, other existing and proposed development in the local area, and 
new vehicle movements associated with the proposed development; associated 
transport emissions should include consideration of non-road impacts (i.e. rail, 
sea, and air) 
 should include consideration of local authority, Environment Agency, Defra 
national network, and any other local site-specific sources of monitoring data 
 should compare predicted environmental concentrations to the applicable 
standard or guideline value for the affected medium (such as UK Air Quality 
Standards and Objectives and Environmental Assessment Levels) 
 If no standard or guideline value exists, the predicted exposure to humans 
should be estimated and compared to an appropriate health-based value 
(a Tolerable Daily Intake or equivalent). Further guidance is provided in 
Annex 1 
 This should consider all applicable routes of exposure e.g. include 
consideration of aspects such as the deposition of chemicals emitted to air 
and their uptake via ingestion 
 should identify and consider impacts on residential areas and sensitive receptors 
(such as schools, nursing homes and healthcare facilities) in the area(s) which 
may be affected by emissions, this should include consideration of any new 
receptors arising from future development 
Whilst screening of impacts using qualitative methodologies is common practice (e.g. 
for impacts arising from fugitive emissions such as dust), where it is possible to 
undertake a quantitative assessment of impacts then this should be undertaken. 
PHE’s view is that the EIA should appraise and describe the measures that will be 
used to control both point source and fugitive emissions and demonstrate that 
standards, guideline values or health-based values will not be exceeded due to 
emissions from the installation, as described above. This should include 
consideration of any emitted pollutants for which there are no set emission limits. 
When assessing the potential impact of a proposed installation on environmental 
quality, predicted environmental concentrations should be compared to the permitted 
concentrations in the affected media; this should include both standards for short 
and long-term exposure.  
Additional points specific to emissions to air 
When considering a baseline (of existing air quality) and in the assessment and 
future monitoring of impacts these: 
 should include consideration of impacts on existing areas of poor air quality e.g. 
existing or proposed local authority Air Quality Management Areas (AQMAs) 
 should include modelling using appropriate meteorological data (i.e. come from 
the nearest suitable meteorological station and include a range of years and 
worst case conditions) 
 should include modelling taking into account local topography 
Additional points specific to emissions to water 
When considering a baseline (of existing water quality) and in the assessment and 
future monitoring of impacts these: 
 should include assessment of potential impacts on human health and not focus 
solely on ecological impacts 
 should identify and consider all routes by which emissions may lead to population 
exposure (e.g. surface watercourses; recreational waters; sewers; geological 
routes etc.)  
 should assess the potential off-site effects of emissions to groundwater (e.g. on 
aquifers used for drinking water) and surface water (used for drinking water 
abstraction) in terms of the potential for population exposure 
 should include consideration of potential impacts on recreational users (e.g. from 
fishing, canoeing etc) alongside assessment of potential exposure via drinking 
water 
Land quality 
We would expect the promoter to provide details of any hazardous contamination 
present on site (including ground gas) as part of the site condition report. 
Emissions to and from the ground should be considered in terms of the previous 
history of the site and the potential of the site, once operational, to give rise to 
issues. Public health impacts associated with ground contamination and/or the 
migration of material off-site should be assessed4 and the potential impact on nearby 
receptors and control and mitigation measures should be outlined.  
Relevant areas outlined in the Government’s Good Practice Guide for EIA include: 
 effects associated with ground contamination that may already exist 
                                            
4 Following the approach outlined in the section above dealing with emissions to air and water i.e. comparing predicted 
environmental concentrations to the applicable standard or guideline value for the affected medium  (such as Soil Guideline 
Values) 
 effects associated with the potential for polluting substances that are used (during 
construction / operation) to cause new ground contamination issues on a site, for 
example introducing / changing the source of contamination  
 impacts associated with re-use of soils and waste soils, for example, re-use of 
site-sourced materials on-site or offsite, disposal of site-sourced materials offsite, 
importation of materials to the site, etc. 
Waste 
The EIA should demonstrate compliance with the waste hierarchy (e.g. with respect 
to re-use, recycling or recovery and disposal). 
For wastes arising from the installation the EIA should consider: 
 the implications and wider environmental and public health impacts of different 
waste disposal options  
 disposal route(s) and transport method(s) and how potential impacts on public 
health will be mitigated 
Other aspects 
Within the EIA PHE would expect to see information about how the promoter would 
respond to accidents with potential off-site emissions e.g. flooding or fires, spills, 
leaks or releases off-site. Assessment of accidents should: identify all potential 
hazards in relation to construction, operation and decommissioning; include an 
assessment of the risks posed; and identify risk management measures and 
contingency actions that will be employed in the event of an accident in order to 
mitigate off-site effects. 
The EIA should include consideration of the COMAH Regulations (Control of Major 
Accident Hazards) and the Major Accident Off-Site Emergency Plan (Management of 
Waste from Extractive Industries) (England and Wales) Regulations 2009: both in 
terms of their applicability to the installation itself, and the installation’s potential to 
impact on, or be impacted by, any nearby installations themselves subject to the 
these Regulations. 
There is evidence that, in some cases, perception of risk may have a greater impact 
on health than the hazard itself. A 2009 report5, jointly published by Liverpool John 
Moores University and PHE, examined health risk perception and environmental 
problems using a number of case studies. As a point to consider, the report 
suggested: “Estimation of community anxiety and stress should be included as part 
of every risk or impact assessment of proposed plans that involve a potential 
environmental hazard. This is true even when the physical health risks may be 
negligible.” PHE supports the inclusion of this information within EIAs as good 
practice. 
                                            
5 Available from: http://www.cph.org.uk/showPublication.aspx?pubid=538  
Electric and magnetic fields (EMF)  
There is a potential health impact associated with the electric and magnetic fields 
around substations and the connecting cables or lines. The following information 
provides a framework for considering the potential health impact. 
In March 2004, the National Radiological Protection Board, NRPB (now part of PHE), 
published advice on limiting public exposure to electromagnetic fields. The advice 
was based on an extensive review of the science and a public consultation on its 
website, and recommended the adoption in the UK of the EMF exposure guidelines 
published by the International Commission on Non-ionizing Radiation Protection 
(ICNIRP):- 
http://www.hpa.org.uk/Publications/Radiation/NPRBArchive/DocumentsOfTheNRPB/
Absd1502/ 
The ICNIRP guidelines are based on the avoidance of known adverse effects of 
exposure to electromagnetic fields (EMF) at frequencies up to 300 GHz (gigahertz), 
which includes static magnetic fields and 50 Hz electric and magnetic fields 
associated with electricity transmission.  
PHE notes the current Government policy is that the ICNIRP guidelines are 
implemented in line with the terms of the EU Council Recommendation on limiting 
exposure of the general public (1999/519/EC): 
http://www.dh.gov.uk/en/Publichealth/Healthprotection/DH_4089500 
For static magnetic fields, the latest ICNIRP guidelines (2009) recommend that acute 
exposure of the general public should not exceed 400 mT (millitesla), for any part of 
the body, although the previously recommended value of 40 mT is the value used in 
the Council Recommendation.  However, because of potential indirect adverse 
effects, ICNIRP recognises that practical policies need to be implemented to prevent 
inadvertent harmful exposure of people with implanted electronic medical devices 
and implants containing ferromagnetic materials, and injuries due to flying 
ferromagnetic objects, and these considerations can lead to much lower restrictions, 
such as 0.5 mT as advised by the International Electrotechnical Commission.  
At 50 Hz, the known direct effects include those of induced currents in the body on 
the central nervous system (CNS) and indirect effects include the risk of painful 
spark discharge on contact with metal objects exposed to the field. The ICNIRP 
guidelines give reference levels for public exposure to 50 Hz electric and magnetic 
fields, and these are respectively 5 kV m−1 (kilovolts per metre) and 100 μT 
(microtesla). If people are not exposed to field strengths above these levels, direct 
effects on the CNS should be avoided and indirect effects such as the risk of painful 
spark discharge will be small. The reference levels are not in themselves limits but 
provide guidance for assessing compliance with the basic restrictions and reducing 
the risk of indirect effects. Further clarification on advice on exposure guidelines for 
50 Hz electric and magnetic fields is provided in the following note on PHE website: 
http://www.hpa.org.uk/webw/HPAweb&HPAwebStandard/HPAweb_C/11957338050
36 
The Department of Energy and Climate Change has also published voluntary code 
of practices which set out key principles for complying with the ICNIRP guidelines for 
the industry. 
http://www.decc.gov.uk/en/content/cms/what_we_do/uk_supply/consents_planning/c
odes/codes.aspx 
There is concern about the possible effects of long-term exposure to electromagnetic 
fields, including possible carcinogenic effects at levels much lower than those given 
in the ICNIRP guidelines. In the NRPB advice issued in 2004, it was concluded that 
the studies that suggest health effects, including those concerning childhood 
leukaemia, could not be used to derive quantitative guidance on restricting exposure. 
However, the results of these studies represented uncertainty in the underlying 
evidence base, and taken together with people’s concerns, provided a basis for 
providing an additional recommendation for Government to consider the need for 
further precautionary measures, particularly with respect to the exposure of children 
to power frequency magnetic fields.   
The Stakeholder Advisory Group on ELF EMFs (SAGE) was then set up to take this 
recommendation forward, explore the implications for a precautionary approach to 
extremely low frequency electric and magnetic fields (ELF EMFs), and to make 
practical recommendations to Government. In the First Interim Assessment of the 
Group, consideration was given to mitigation options such as the 'corridor option' 
near power lines, and optimal phasing to reduce electric and magnetic fields. A 
Second Interim Assessment addresses electricity distribution systems up to 66 kV. 
The SAGE reports can be found at the following link: 
http://sagedialogue.org.uk/ (go to “Document Index” and Scroll to SAGE/Formal 
reports with recommendations) 
The Agency has given advice to Health Ministers on the First Interim Assessment of 
SAGE regarding precautionary approaches to ELF EMFs and specifically regarding 
power lines and property, wiring and electrical equipment in homes: 
http://www.hpa.org.uk/webw/HPAweb&HPAwebStandard/HPAweb_C/12042766825
32?p=1207897920036 
The evidence to date suggests that in general there are no adverse effects on the 
health of the population of the UK caused by exposure to ELF EMFs below the 
guideline levels. The scientific evidence, as reviewed by PHE, supports the view that 
precautionary measures should address solely the possible association with 
childhood leukaemia and not other more speculative health effects. The measures 
should be proportionate in that overall benefits outweigh the fiscal and social costs, 
have a convincing evidence base to show that they will be successful in reducing 
exposure, and be effective in providing reassurance to the public.  
The Government response to the SAGE report is given in the written Ministerial 
Statement by Gillian Merron, then Minister of State, Department of Health, published 
on 16th October 2009: 
 
http://www.publications.parliament.uk/pa/cm200809/cmhansrd/cm091016/wmstext/9
1016m0001.htm 
http://www.dh.gov.uk/en/Publicationsandstatistics/Publications/PublicationsPolicyAn
dGuidance/DH_107124 
PHE and Government responses to the Second Interim Assessment of SAGE are 
available at the following links: 
http://www.hpa.org.uk/Publications/Radiation/HPAResponseStatementsOnRadiation
Topics/rpdadvice_sage2 
http://www.dh.gov.uk/en/Publicationsandstatistics/Publications/PublicationsPolicyAn
dGuidance/DH_130703 
The above information provides a framework for considering the health impact 
associated with the proposed development, including the direct and indirect effects 
of the electric and magnetic fields as indicated above.  
Liaison with other stakeholders, comments should be sought from: 
 the local authority for matters relating to noise, odour, vermin and dust nuisance 
 the local authority regarding any site investigation and subsequent construction 
(and remediation) proposals to ensure that the site could not be determined as 
‘contaminated land’ under Part 2A of the Environmental Protection Act 
 the local authority regarding any impacts on existing or proposed Air Quality 
Management Areas 
 the Food Standards Agency Wales  for matters relating to the impact on human 
health of pollutants deposited on land used for growing food/ crops 
 the Natural Resources Wales for matters relating to flood risk and releases with 
the potential to impact on surface and groundwaters 
 the Natural Resources Wales for matters relating to waste characterisation and 
acceptance 
 The Local Authority Directors of Public Health for matters relating to wider public 
health. 
 
 
 
Environmental Permitting  
Amongst other permits and consents, the development will require an environmental 
permit from the Environment Agency to operate (under the Environmental Permitting 
(England and Wales) Regulations 2010). Therefore the installation will need to 
comply with the requirements of best available techniques (BAT). PHE is a consultee 
for bespoke environmental permit applications and will respond separately to any 
such consultation. 
Annex 1 
 
Human health risk assessment (chemical pollutants) 
The points below are cross-cutting and should be considered when undertaking a 
human health risk assessment: 
 The promoter should consider including Chemical Abstract Service (CAS) 
numbers alongside chemical names, where referenced in the ES 
 Where available, the most recent United Kingdom standards for the 
appropriate media (e.g. air, water, and/or soil) and health-based guideline 
values should be used when quantifying the risk to human health from 
chemical pollutants. Where UK standards or guideline values are not 
available, those recommended by the European Union or World Health 
Organisation can be used  
 When assessing the human health risk of a chemical emitted from a facility or 
operation, the background exposure to the chemical from other sources 
should be taken into account 
 When quantitatively assessing the health risk of genotoxic and carcinogenic 
chemical pollutants PHE does not favour the use of mathematical models to 
extrapolate from high dose levels used in animal carcinogenicity studies to 
well below the observed region of a dose-response relationship.  When only 
animal data are available, we recommend that the ‘Margin of Exposure’ 
(MOE) approach6 is used  
 
                                            
6  Benford D et al. 2010. Application of the margin of exposure approach to substances in food that are genotoxic and 
carcinogenic.  Food Chem Toxicol 48 Suppl 1: S2-24 
CITY & COUNTY OF SWANSEA / DINAS A SIR ABERTAWE 
DIRECTORATE OF PLACE / CYFARWYDDIAETH LLEOEDD 
ECONOMIC REGENERATION & PLANNING / ADFYWIO ECONOMAIDD A CHYNLLUNIO 
CIVIC CENTRE, OYSTERMOUTH ROAD, SWANSEA, SA1 3SN 
Y GANOLFAN DDINESIG, HEOL YSTUMLLWYNARTH, ABERTAWE, SA1 3SN 
 (01792) 635701    (01792) 635719    (01792) 635708 
  planning@swansea.gov.uk / http://www.swansea.gov.uk 
 
To receive this information in alternative format, please contact the above. 
I dderbyn yr wybodaeth hon mewn fformatt arall, cysylltwch a’r person uchod. 
We welcome communications in English and Welsh. 
Rydym yn croesawu gohebiaeth yn y Gymraeg a’r Saesneg. 
 
 
The Planning Inspectorate 
3/18 Eagle Wing 
Temple Quay House 
2 The Square 
Bristol 
BS1 6PN 
Please ask for:
Direct Line:
E-Mail:
Date:
David Owen
01792 635701
planning@swansea.gov.uk
23rd July   2014 
 
For the attention of Jenny Colfer 
 
 
Dear Jenny  
 
APP NUMBER: 
ENQ2014/0800 
SITE LOCATION:  
Abergelli Power Project, Felindre, Swansea  
PROPOSAL: 
Power Generation Plant – 299 MW (EIA Scoping Report)  
 
I refer to your letter dated 26 June 2014 (Ref:ENO10069) regarding the EIA Scoping 
Consultation.   The Local Planning Authority would wish to highlight the following 
issues:  
 
4.3 
Cumulative Assessment 
In addition to the listed developments, the EIA should also have regard to the 
following:  
 
Planning Application 2012/1221 Mynydd y Gwair Wind Farm - Installation of 16 wind 
turbines (maximum height to blade tip of 127 metres with a hub height of 80 metres), 
with a maximum generating capacity of 48MW, associated tracks and ancillary 
infrastructure (including permanent and temporary anemometer masts, electrical 
substation compound, hardstandings, transformers and underground cabling) and 
construction of new access track from A48 (Bolgoed Road at Pontarddulais) 
(approximately 14.54km in length) incorporating improvements to 3.9km of existing 
road across Mynydd Pysgodlyn – Planning Permission March, 2013  
 
Planning Application 2006/0773 – Felindre Business Park  - Outline Planning 
Permission has been granted for a strategic business park for B1 and B2 uses to 
accommodate emerging industries, high tech manufacturing, high level services, 
ancillary uses, associated car parking, landscaping and access roads.  
 
The application site area extends to 195 hectares, however, the application master 
plan indicates the development area to be 60.9 hectares of the south eastern area of 
the site and is focussed on the main brownfield area of the site formerly occupied by 
the Felindre tinplate works. It is envisaged that this developable area on the master 
 
CITY & COUNTY OF SWANSEA / DINAS A SIR ABERTAWE 
DIRECTORATE OF PLACE / CYFARWYDDIAETH LLEOEDD 
ECONOMIC REGENERATION & PLANNING / ADFYWIO ECONOMAIDD A CHYNLLUNIO 
CIVIC CENTRE, OYSTERMOUTH ROAD, SWANSEA, SA1 3SN 
Y GANOLFAN DDINESIG, HEOL YSTUMLLWYNARTH, ABERTAWE, SA1 3SN 
 (01792) 635701    (01792) 635719    (01792) 635708 
  planning@swansea.gov.uk / http://www.swansea.gov.uk 
 
To receive this information in alternative format, please contact the above. 
I dderbyn yr wybodaeth hon mewn fformatt arall, cysylltwch a’r person uchod. 
We welcome communications in English and Welsh. 
Rydym yn croesawu gohebiaeth yn y Gymraeg a’r Saesneg. 
 
plan will become the first phase of the overall concept and act as the catalyst for 
further potential phases of development. However, this is outside the scope of this 
particular application. 
 
The development of the Strategic employment site would represent the first stage in 
the implementation of a high level employment site at Felindre which envisages the 
following types of uses as appropriate within each of the high value added economic 
groups: 
 
 
emerging 
industries 
(media/multi-media, 
biotechnology 
and 
nanotechnology).  
 
High 
tech 
manufacturing 
(semiconductors, 
telecoms 
equipment, 
pharmaceuticals & fine chemicals, advanced materials, aerospace).  
 
High level services (IT services & software, HQ functions, R & D, financial 
and business services, publishing).    
 
The site is not considered suitable for general manufacturing, processing and office 
services. The main elements of the scheme are as follows: 
 
 80,065 sq. m/861,900 sq. ft of employment floor space for specific B1 and 
B2 use classes.  
 Ancillary uses associated with a Strategic Business Park. 
 Associated parking, landscaping and highway works. 
 
Additionally, the Felindre LDP / Candidate Site should be considered. The 
assessment fails to have regard to the Local Development Plan: Preferred Strategy, 
July 2013. Within its Sustainable Growth Strategy, at Felindre, it is proposed to 
establish a new sustainable urban village to complement the proposed strategic 
employment development site at this location of 1000 new houses, together with 
supporting community facilities, leisure opportunities and integrated green 
infrastructure.  
 
5 
ES Impact Sections  
 
5.3 Air Quality  
The Council’s Pollution Control team have assessed the scoping report and in 
respect of air quality are of the view that the main issues have been covered / 
identified.  
 
The proposed use of ADMS for the dispersion modelling is welcomed but Pollution 
Control would want to agree all selected receptor locations for the modelling studies 
and also some of the data inputs. The modelling studies would need to consider 
human receptor points and also any SAC/SSSI etc etc. It is noted that they also plan 
to include an assessment of all non designated ecological receptor sites i.e. the Lliw 
CITY & COUNTY OF SWANSEA / DINAS A SIR ABERTAWE 
DIRECTORATE OF PLACE / CYFARWYDDIAETH LLEOEDD 
ECONOMIC REGENERATION & PLANNING / ADFYWIO ECONOMAIDD A CHYNLLUNIO 
CIVIC CENTRE, OYSTERMOUTH ROAD, SWANSEA, SA1 3SN 
Y GANOLFAN DDINESIG, HEOL YSTUMLLWYNARTH, ABERTAWE, SA1 3SN 
 (01792) 635701    (01792) 635719    (01792) 635708 
  planning@swansea.gov.uk / http://www.swansea.gov.uk 
 
To receive this information in alternative format, please contact the above. 
I dderbyn yr wybodaeth hon mewn fformatt arall, cysylltwch a’r person uchod. 
We welcome communications in English and Welsh. 
Rydym yn croesawu gohebiaeth yn y Gymraeg a’r Saesneg. 
 
and Llan reservoirs. The pollutants of interest would be NOx , NO and NO2, PM10 
and CO. In addition, and as increasing research is pointing to significant health 
effects from PM2.5 this pollutant should be included in any impact assessment. 
Pollution Control would also be interested in seeing predicted ground level ozone 
concentrations as a result of photochemistry from any increased NOx made 
available. (Ozone is known to be higher in rural areas due to ongoing photochemistry 
resulting from the wind mass laden with NOx passing overhead from the urban areas 
with ongoing photochemistry taking place – high ozone concentrations can have 
human health implications as well as effects on vegetation etc) 
 
Local meteorological data should be used for any modelling studies and not be 
sourced from Cardiff Airport / Tutt Head Mumbles for example as these locations 
would in all probability not reflect conditions at the proposed site. Pollution Control 
can make available both boundary scaling data and the climatological dataset from 
their 30m mast at Cwm Level Park for their use. However, if they are planning to 
source meteorological data from any other source i.e. the Mynydd y Gwair wind farm 
development then this may prove an even better local source. Pollution Control 
would also consider making their SODAR wind profiler available (AQ500) should a 
suitable remote site be found and made available to site the equipment trailer. This 
AQ500 produces detailed wind speed/wind direction measurements every 15m up to 
its maximum height range of 300m which would be useful in any modelling 
undertaken. 
 
5.4 
Noise and Vibration  
The Council’s Pollution Control team would require an assessment of the effects 
from all tonal noise from the development at existing receptor locations. Additionally, 
regard should be made to the committed development of the Felindre Strategic 
Business Park and the proposed residential development of the Felindre LDP urban 
village.    
 
5.5 
Ecology   
The Council’s Ecologist has assessed the ecological sections scoping report and 
confirms that it would appear that all of the relevant areas for ecological survey have 
been identified in the preliminary ecological appraisal (appendix 1). The surveyors 
have identified some areas requiring further work some of which is been carried out 
now.  This additional work is summarised in sections 5.5.9 to 5.5.25 of the report. 
Once the full report has been completed it will be possible to fully assess any 
potential impact. 
 
5.6 
Water Quality and Resources  
Immediately to the north of the site Dwr Cymru Welsh Water operate their Felindre 
Water Treatment Works (WTW) and further to the north the Upper and Lower Lliw 
reservoirs form an important watt storage asset for the provision of treated water to 
over 400,000 customers extending as far west as Carmarthen and as far east as the 
CITY & COUNTY OF SWANSEA / DINAS A SIR ABERTAWE 
DIRECTORATE OF PLACE / CYFARWYDDIAETH LLEOEDD 
ECONOMIC REGENERATION & PLANNING / ADFYWIO ECONOMAIDD A CHYNLLUNIO 
CIVIC CENTRE, OYSTERMOUTH ROAD, SWANSEA, SA1 3SN 
Y GANOLFAN DDINESIG, HEOL YSTUMLLWYNARTH, ABERTAWE, SA1 3SN 
 (01792) 635701    (01792) 635719    (01792) 635708 
  planning@swansea.gov.uk / http://www.swansea.gov.uk 
 
To receive this information in alternative format, please contact the above. 
I dderbyn yr wybodaeth hon mewn fformatt arall, cysylltwch a’r person uchod. 
We welcome communications in English and Welsh. 
Rydym yn croesawu gohebiaeth yn y Gymraeg a’r Saesneg. 
 
Vale of Glamorgan and additionally there is a strategic watermain in the vicinity. The 
66” diameter strategic water pipeline, along with the Lliw Reservoirs and Felindre 
WTW form integral parts of the largest water supply scheme ever constructed in 
Wales and were built in 1968 under an Act of Parliament known as the River Towy 
Water Supply Scheme. The 66” watermain is 17 miles long running from 
Nantgaredig Pumping Station to Felindre Water Treatment Works, and has no 
isolation valves along its entire length. It carries 240 Megalitres of water per day. 
This asset is the sole supply from ther Llyn Brianne reservoir, via Nantgaredig 
Pumping Station to Felindre Water Treatment Works (WTW). Critical dependencies 
on this water supply include heavy and light industry, commercial centres and major 
health care facilities, such as the Morriston Hospital. Felindre WTW is one of only 
five DCWW assets in Wales which is classified by UK Government as of Critical 
National Importance. The strategic and importance of this asset therefore cannot be 
overstated.   
 
No doubt consultation has been undertaken with DCWW, but impacts about the 
water quality in the reservoir and the structural integrity of the strategic water mains 
will need to be fully considered.  It has previously been indicated by DCWW in 
association with other projects, that any works that would impact the integrity of the 
watermain would be of significant concern. It should also be noted that a fracture to 
this important watermain is likely to result in a major flooding incident as the water 
from the pipe drains out. Should the supply of water from this watermain to Felindre 
WTW be interrupted, water would be sourced from the Lower Lliw reservoir. 
Although the Lower Lliw would provide storage for a time, once half of the reservoir’s 
stored water has been used the remaining water will be of very poor quality. The 
amount of treatment required for the water extracted at lower water is likely to 
exceed the treatment which can be provided at Felindre WTW in the quantities 
required for 400,000 customers. 
   
Burry Inlet Habitat Regulations Assessment   
The Scoping Opinion indicates that the Afan Llan flows in Swansea Bay. This is 
incorrect as the Afan Llan flows into the Loughor Estuary / Burry Inlet. This forms 
part of a European protected site which potentially affects the Carmarthen Bay and 
Estuaries European Marine Site (CBEEMS), the Carmarthen Bay Special Protection 
Area (SPA) and the Burry Inlet SPA and RAMSAR site. The conservation status of 
the sites has for some time been a matter of concern, with the issues centre around 
deficiencies in the sewerage infrastructure and the resulting storm spills and 
nutrients that may discharge into the protected sites.  
 
The local authorities, Carmarthenshire County Council and City and County of 
Swansea Council, are required to meet their obligations under the EU Habitats 
Directive to ensure that no new developments adversely affect a protected site. This 
has led to a precautionary approach to new applications for development that may 
add additional loading on the public sewerage infrastructure in the area. To this end 
CITY & COUNTY OF SWANSEA / DINAS A SIR ABERTAWE 
DIRECTORATE OF PLACE / CYFARWYDDIAETH LLEOEDD 
ECONOMIC REGENERATION & PLANNING / ADFYWIO ECONOMAIDD A CHYNLLUNIO 
CIVIC CENTRE, OYSTERMOUTH ROAD, SWANSEA, SA1 3SN 
Y GANOLFAN DDINESIG, HEOL YSTUMLLWYNARTH, ABERTAWE, SA1 3SN 
 (01792) 635701    (01792) 635719    (01792) 635708 
  planning@swansea.gov.uk / http://www.swansea.gov.uk 
 
To receive this information in alternative format, please contact the above. 
I dderbyn yr wybodaeth hon mewn fformatt arall, cysylltwch a’r person uchod. 
We welcome communications in English and Welsh. 
Rydym yn croesawu gohebiaeth yn y Gymraeg a’r Saesneg. 
 
a Memorandum of Understanding has been agreed between the relevant Councils, 
Dwr Cymru Welsh Water, Environment Agency and Countryside Council for Wales 
(Sept. 2011). The Memorandum of Understanding (“MoU”) relating to the 
Safeguarding the Environment of the Carmarthen Bay and Estuaries European 
Marine Site (CBEEMS) whilst enabling Social and Economic Development for 
Communities around Burry Inlet indicates that to allow developments to proceed 
within the Gowerton Catchment foul flows generated by a development will only be 
allowed to connect to the sewerage system once existing flows of surface water or 
foul have been removed from the system as a compensatory measure. 
 
5.7 
Geology, Ground Conditions and Agriculture 
No comments 
 
5.8 
Landscape and Visual Impact 
It is noted that a landscape and visual assessment will be undertaken and it is noted 
that a Zone of Theoretical Visibility (ZTV) will be generated for the Power Generation 
Plant and that a selection of photomontages will be taken from key sensitive 
viewpoints, and a suggested list in included in the Scoping Report for consultation. 
Whilst the suggested viewpoint locations appear to be indicative of the surrounding 
area, following a meeting with the developer the ZTV has been requested to assist in 
assessing the adequacy of the proposed viewpoints.   
 
5.9 
Traffic, Transport and Access 
The Council’s Head of Transportation has a meeting arranged for the 7th August to 
scope out the transport/traffic/access elements. 
 
5.10 Cultural Heritage and Archaeology   
No comments 
 
5.11 Socio-Economics  
No comments  
 
I hope this is of assistance to you.  
 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
 
DAVID OWEN 
PRINCIPAL PLANNING OFFICER  
1
Hannah Nelson
From:
Owen, David <David.Owen@swansea.gov.uk>
Sent:
24 July 2014 14:05
To:
Environmental Services
Subject:
FW: Abergelli Power Project 
Attachments:
mvmt1259.doc
Follow Up Flag:
Follow up
Flag Status:
Flagged
Jenny  
 
Further to yesterday’s email in terms of the cumulative assessment I would also wish to highlight a 
new planning application I have just become aware of.  
 
Planning Application no. 2014/1022 for the installation of a solar park consisting of 47,000 solar 
panels with the installed capacity of 12.69 MW on land at Brynwhilach Farm. This site is almost 
immediately to the west of the proposed Abergelli Power Plant.     
 
Regards  
 
David  
 
From: Owen, David  
Sent: 23 July 2014 11:30 
To: 'environmentalservices@infrastructure.gsi.gov.uk' 
Subject: Abergelli Power Project  
 
For the attention of Jenny Colfer  
  
Please find attached the LPA's consultation response to the EIA Scoping Report for the above 
project.  
  
Regards  
  
David Owen 
Principal Planning Officer  
 
****************************************************************** 
This e-mail and any files transmitted with it are confidential and intended solely for the use of the individual 
or entity to whom they are addressed. If you have received this e-mail in error, please notify the 
administrator on the following address: 
administrator@swansea.gov.uk 
 
All communications sent to or from the Council may be subject to recording and/or monitoring in 
accordance with relevant legislation 
 
Mae'r e-bost hwn ac unrhyw ffeiliau a drosglwyddir gydag ef yn gyfrinachol ac at ddefnydd yr unigolyn 
neu'r corff y cyfeiriwyd hwy atynt yn unig. Os ydych wedi derbyn yr e-bost hwn drwy gamgymeriad, 
dylech hysbysu'r gweinyddydd yn y cyfeiriad canlynol: 
administrator@swansea.gov.uk 
 
 
 
 
Protecting the public and the environment in coal mining areas 
 
1
200 Lichfield Lane 
Berry Hill 
Mansfield 
Nottinghamshire 
NG18 4RG 
 
Tel:  
01623 637 119 (Planning Enquiries) 
 
 
Email:  planningconsultation@coal.gov.uk 
 
Web:   www.coal.gov.uk/services/planning 
  
For the Attention of: Ms J. Colfer – Senior EIA and Land Rights Advisor 
The Planning Inspectorate 
 
[By Email: environmentalservices@infrastructure.gsi.gov.uk]  
 
Your Ref: EN010069 
 
24 July 2014 
  
Dear Ms Colfer 
 
Planning Act 2008 (as amended) and The Infrastructure Planning (Environmental 
Impact Assessment) Regulations 2009 (as amended) – Regulations 8 and 9  
 
Application by Abergelli Power Limited for an Order Granting Development Consent 
for the Abergelli Power Project – Scoping Consultation 
 
Thank you for your consultation letter of 26 June 2014 seeking the views of The Coal 
Authority on the EIA Scoping Opinion for the above proposal. 
 
The Coal Authority is a non-departmental public body sponsored by the Department of 
Energy and Climate Change.  As a statutory consultee, The Coal Authority has a duty to 
respond to planning applications and development plans in order to protect the public and 
the environment in mining areas. 
 
The Coal Authority Response 
I have reviewed the proposals and confirm that the application site falls within the defined 
Development High Risk Area; the site therefore has been subject to past coal mining 
activity and is located within an area of surface coal resource. 
 
In accordance with the agreed risk-based approach to development management in 
Development High Risk Areas, the past coal mining activities and the presence of surface 
coal resources within the site should be fully considered as part of the Environmental 
Statement (ES) accompanying the Development Consent Order; this should take the form 
of a risk assessment, together with any necessary mitigation measures. 
 
The Coal Authority is therefore pleased to note that the Environmental Impact Assessment 
Scoping Report (June 2014) submitted at section 5.7 proposes the inclusion of a chapter 
 
 
 
Protecting the public and the environment in coal mining areas 
 
2
in the Environmental Statement on geology, ground conditions and agriculture and also 
demonstrates awareness in paragraph 5.7.3 that part of the proposed development site 
has been subject to past coal mining activity. 
 
Consideration of Coal Mining Issues in the ES 
There are a number of coal mining legacy issues that can potentially pose a risk to new 
development and therefore should be considered as part of an Environmental Statement 
for development proposals within coalfield areas: 
 The location and stability of abandoned mine entries 
 The extent and stability of shallow mine workings 
 Outcropping coal seams and unrecorded mine workings 
 Hydrogeology, minewater and minegas 
 
In addition, consideration should be afforded as part of development proposals and the ES 
to the following: 
 If surface coal resources are present, whether prior extraction of the mineral 
resource is practicable and viable 
 Whether Coal Authority permission is required to intersect, enter, or disturb any coal 
or coal workings during site investigation or development work 
 
Coal Mining Information 
Information on these issues can be obtained from The Coal Authority's Property Search 
Services Team (via The Coal Authority’s website) or book an appointment to visit The Coal 
Authority’s Mining Records Centre in Mansfield to view our mining information (Tel: 01623 
637 000). 
 
An assessment of the risks associated with the presence of coal mining legacy issues on a 
proposed development should be prepared by a “competent body”.  Links to the relevant 
professional 
institutions 
of 
competent 
bodies 
can 
be 
found 
at; 
http://coal.decc.gov.uk/en/coal/cms/services/planning/strategy/strategy.aspx 
 
In accordance with our consultation requirements, we look forward to being consulted on 
the Development Consent Order and accompanying Environmental Statement in due 
course. 
 
I trust this is acceptable, please do not hesitate to contact me if you require any additional 
information or would like to discuss this matter further. 
 
Yours sincerely 
 
Mark Harrison 
Mark E. N. Harrison B.A.(Hons), DipTP, LL.M, MInstLM, MRTPI 
Planning Liaison Manager 
  
 
Developer Services 
PO Box 3146 
Cardiff 
CF30 0EH 
 
Tel:   +44 (0)800 917 2652 
Fax:   +44 (0)2920 740472 
E.mail: developer.services@dwrcymru.com 
Gwasanaethau Datblygu 
Blwch Post 3146 
Caerdydd 
CF30 0EH 
 
Ffôn:  +44 (0)800 917 2652 
Ffacs:  +44 (0)2920 740472 
E.bost: developer.services@dwrcymru.com 
 
 
     
 
 
 
Welsh Water is owned by Glas Cymru – a ‘not-for-profit’ company. 
Mae Dŵr Cymru yn eiddo i Glas Cymru – cwmni ‘nid-er-elw’. 
 
We welcome correspondence in 
Welsh and English 
 
Dŵr Cymru Cyf, a limited company registered in 
Wales no 2366777. Registered office: Pentwyn Road, 
Nelson, Treharris, Mid Glamorgan CF46 6LY 
 
Rydym yn croesawu gohebiaeth yn y 
Gymraeg neu yn Saesneg 
 
Dŵr Cymru Cyf, cwmni cyfyngedig wedi’i gofrestru yng 
Nghymru rhif 2366777. Swyddfa gofrestredig: Heol Pentwyn 
Nelson, Treharris, Morgannwg Ganol CF46 6LY. 
 
The Planning Inspectorate  
 
 
 
 
3/18 Eagle Wing 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Issued via email only 
Temple Quay House 
2 The Square 
Bristol, 
BS1 6PN 
Date: 24/07/2014 
Our Ref: OG/NSIP/Abergelli 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 
Planning Act 2008 (as amended) and the Infrastructure Planning (Environmental Impact Assessment) 
Regulations 2009 (as amended) – Regulation 8 
 
Application by Abergelli Power Limited for an Order Granting Development Consent for the Abergelli 
Power Project 
 
Scoping Consultation 
 
I refer to your consultation letter received in accordance with the above regulations. We have reviewed 
the documents available at this stage in the process and specifically the Scoping Request received. We 
therefore have the following comments to make.  
 
The application site lies in close proximity to the Lower Lliw Reservoir which supplies Felindre Water 
Treatment Works. The Scoping Request is silent on the potential impact of the development upon the 
water quality within the reservoir, which is approximately 1km from the site. It is therefore 
recommended that the developer explores these issues and undertakes an appropriate air quality 
assessment to consider possible effects to the water in the reservoir from both deposition and affected 
rainfall.  
 
Further to the above, and where relevant, we recommend that the developer considers the impact upon 
any DCWW assets and apparatus and our ability to fulfil statutory obligations. In particular we draw the 
Planning Inspectorate and the developer’s attention to the 48” strategic water main that crosses the 
application site. We would encourage and welcome early dialogue with ourselves to discuss these 
matters. 
  
Notwithstanding the above, we respectfully reserve the right to comment further on any matters and 
issues arising from ongoing and future consultation. However, we trust the above information is helpful 
at this stage and we look forward to continuing our engagement on the project prior and during the 
submission of an application to the Planning Inspectorate.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
 
Welsh Water is owned by Glas Cymru – a ‘not-for-profit’ company. 
Mae Dŵr Cymru yn eiddo i Glas Cymru – cwmni ‘nid-er-elw’. 
 
We welcome correspondence in 
Welsh and English 
 
Dŵr Cymru Cyf, a limited company registered in 
Wales no 2366777. Registered office: Pentwyn Road, 
Nelson, Treharris, Mid Glamorgan CF46 6LY 
 
Rydym yn croesawu gohebiaeth yn y 
Gymraeg neu yn Saesneg 
 
Dŵr Cymru Cyf, cwmni cyfyngedig wedi’i gofrestru yng 
Nghymru rhif 2366777. Swyddfa gofrestredig: Heol Pentwyn 
Nelson, Treharris, Morgannwg Ganol CF46 6LY. 
 
Finally, I would be grateful if all future correspondence relating to the project is directed to me at the 
above address. For any further information, please do not hesitate to contact me.  
 
Yours faithfully,  
Owain George 
Lead Development Control Officer 
Developer Services 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX 3 
Presentation of the Environmental 
Statement 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix 3 
 
 
APPENDIX 3 
PRESENTATION OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL STATEMENT 
The 
Infrastructure 
Planning 
(Applications: 
Prescribed 
Forms 
and 
Procedure) Regulations 2009 (SI 2264) (as amended) sets out the 
information which must be provided for an application for a development 
consent order (DCO) for nationally significant infrastructure under the 
Planning Act 2008. Where required, this includes an environmental 
statement. Applicants may also provide any other documents considered 
necessary 
to 
support 
the 
application. 
Information 
which 
is 
not 
environmental information need not be replicated or included in the ES.  
An environmental statement (ES) is described under the Infrastructure 
Planning (Environmental Impact Assessment) Regulations 2009 (SI 2263) 
(as amended) (the EIA Regulations) as a statement: 
a) 
‘that includes such of the information referred to in Part 1 of 
Schedule 4 as is reasonably required to assess the environmental 
effects of the development and of any associated development and 
which the applicant can, having regard in particular to current 
knowledge and methods of assessment, reasonably be required to 
compile; but 
b) 
that includes at least the information required in Part 2 of 
Schedule 4’. 
(EIA Regulations Regulation 2) 
The purpose of an ES is to ensure that the environmental effects of a 
proposed development are fully considered, together with the economic or 
social benefits of the development, before the development consent 
application under the Planning Act 2008 is determined.  The ES should be 
an aid to decision making. 
The SoS advises that the ES should be laid out clearly with a minimum 
amount of technical terms and should provide a clear objective and 
realistic description of the likely significant impacts of the proposed 
development. The information should be presented so as to be 
comprehensible to the specialist and non-specialist alike. The SoS 
recommends that the ES be concise with technical information placed in 
appendices. 
ES Indicative Contents 
The SoS emphasises that the ES should be a ‘stand alone’ document in 
line with best practice and case law. The EIA Regulations Schedule 4, 
Parts 1 and 2, set out the information for inclusion in environmental 
statements.  
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix 3 
 
 
Schedule 4 Part 1 of the EIA Regulations states this information includes: 
‘17.  
Description of the development, including in particular— 
(a)  
a description of the physical characteristics of the 
whole development and the land-use requirements 
during the construction and operational phases; 
(b)  
a description of the main characteristics of the 
production processes, for instance, nature and quantity 
of the materials used; 
(c)  
an estimate, by type and quantity, of expected 
residues and emissions (water, air and soil pollution, 
noise, vibration, light, heat, radiation, etc) resulting 
from the operation of the proposed development. 
 
18.  
An outline of the main alternatives studied by the applicant 
and an indication of the main reasons for the applicant’s 
choice, taking into account the environmental effects. 
 
19.  
A description of the aspects of the environment likely to be 
significantly affected by the development, including, in 
particular, population, fauna, flora, soil, water, air, climatic 
factors, material assets, including the architectural and 
archaeological heritage, landscape and the interrelationship 
between the above factors. 
 
20.  
A description of the likely significant effects of the 
development on the environment, which should cover the 
direct effects and any indirect, secondary, cumulative, short, 
medium and long-term, permanent and temporary, positive 
and negative effects of the development, resulting from: 
(a)  
the existence of the development; 
(b) 
the use of natural resources; 
(c)  
the emission of pollutants, the creation of nuisances 
and the elimination of waste,  
and the description by the applicant of the forecasting 
methods used to assess the effects on the environment. 
 
21.  
A description of the measures envisaged to prevent, reduce 
and where possible offset any significant adverse effects on 
the environment. 
 
22.  
A non-technical summary of the information provided under 
paragraphs 1 to 5 of this Part. 
 
23.  
An indication of any difficulties (technical deficiencies or lack 
of know-how) encountered by the applicant in compiling the 
required information’. 
EIA Regulations Schedule 4 Part 1 
 
 
 
 
Appendix 3 
 
 
The content of the ES must include as a minimum those matters set out in 
Schedule 4 Part 2 of the EIA Regulations.  This includes the consideration 
of ‘the main alternatives studied by the applicant’ which the SoS 
recommends could be addressed as a separate chapter in the ES.  Part 2 
is included below for reference: 
Schedule 4 Part 2 
 
A description of the development comprising information on the 
site, design and size of the development 
 
A description of the measures envisaged in order to avoid, reduce 
and, if possible, remedy significant adverse  effects 
 
The data required to identify and assess the main effects which the 
development is likely to have on the environment 
 
An outline of the main alternatives studies by the applicant and an 
indication of the main reasons for the applicant’s choice, taking into 
account the environmental effects, and 
 
A non-technical summary of the information provided [under the 
four paragraphs above]. 
Traffic and transport is not specified as a topic for assessment under 
Schedule 4; although in line with good practice the SoS considers it is an 
important consideration per se, as well as being the source of further 
impacts in terms of air quality and noise and vibration. 
Balance 
The SoS recommends that the ES should be balanced, with matters which 
give rise to a greater number or more significant impacts being given 
greater prominence. Where few or no impacts are identified, the technical 
section may be much shorter, with greater use of information in 
appendices as appropriate. 
The SoS considers that the ES should not be a series of disparate reports 
and stresses the importance of considering inter-relationships between 
factors and cumulative impacts. 
Scheme Proposals  
The scheme parameters will need to be clearly defined in the draft DCO 
and therefore in the accompanying ES which should support the 
application as described. The SoS is not able to entertain material changes 
to a project once an application is submitted. The SoS draws the attention 
of the applicant to the DCLG and the Planning Inspectorate’s published 
advice on the preparation of a draft DCO and accompanying application 
documents. 
 
 
 
Appendix 3 
 
 
Flexibility  
The SoS acknowledges that the EIA process is iterative, and therefore the 
proposals may change and evolve. For example, there may be changes to 
the scheme design in response to consultation. Such changes should be 
addressed in the ES. However, at the time of the application for a DCO, 
any proposed scheme parameters should not be so wide ranging as to 
represent effectively different schemes. 
It is a matter for the applicant, in preparing an ES, to consider whether it 
is possible to assess robustly a range of impacts resulting from a large 
number of undecided parameters. The description of the proposed 
development in the ES must not be so wide that it is insufficiently certain 
to comply with requirements of paragraph 17 of Schedule 4 Part 1 of the 
EIA Regulations. 
The Rochdale Envelope principle (see R v Rochdale MBC ex parte Tew 
(1999) and R v Rochdale MBC ex parte Milne (2000)) is an accepted way 
of dealing with uncertainty in preparing development applications. The 
applicant’s attention is drawn to the Planning Inspectorate’s Advice Note 9 
‘Rochdale Envelope’ which is available on the Advice Note’s page of the 
National Infrastructure Planning website.  
The applicant should make every attempt to narrow the range of options 
and explain clearly in the ES which elements of the scheme have yet to be 
finalised and provide the reasons. Where some flexibility is sought and the 
precise details are not known, the applicant should assess the maximum 
potential adverse impacts the project could have to ensure that the 
project as it may be constructed has been properly assessed.  
The ES should be able to confirm that any changes to the development 
within any proposed parameters would not result in significant impacts not 
previously identified and assessed. The maximum and other dimensions of 
the proposed development should be clearly described in the ES, with 
appropriate justification. It will also be important to consider choice of 
materials, colour and the form of the structures and of any buildings. 
Lighting proposals should also be described. 
Scope 
The SoS recommends that the physical scope of the study areas should be 
identified under all the environmental topics and should be sufficiently 
robust in order to undertake the assessment. The extent of the study 
areas should be on the basis of recognised professional guidance, 
whenever such guidance is available. The study areas should also be 
agreed with the relevant consultees and local authorities and, where this 
is not possible, this should be stated clearly in the ES and a reasoned 
justification given. The scope should also cover the breadth of the topic 
area and the temporal scope, and these aspects should be described and 
justified. 
 
 
 
 
Appendix 3 
 
 
Physical Scope 
In general the SoS recommends that the physical scope for the EIA should 
be determined in the light of: 
 
the nature of the proposal being considered 
 
the relevance in terms of the specialist topic  
 
the breadth of the topic 
 
the physical extent of any surveys or the study area, and 
 
the potential significant impacts. 
The SoS recommends that the physical scope of the study areas should be 
identified for each of the environmental topics and should be sufficiently 
robust in order to undertake the assessment. This should include at least 
the whole of the application site, and include all offsite works. For certain 
topics, such as landscape and transport, the study area will need to be 
wider. The extent of the study areas should be on the basis of recognised 
professional guidance and best practice, whenever this is available, and 
determined by establishing the physical extent of the likely impacts. The 
study areas should also be agreed with the relevant consultees and, 
where this is not possible, this should be stated clearly in the ES and a 
reasoned justification given.  
Breadth of the Topic Area 
The ES should explain the range of matters to be considered under each 
topic and this may respond partly to the type of project being considered.  
If the range considered is drawn narrowly then a justification for the 
approach should be provided. 
Temporal Scope 
The assessment should consider: 
 
environmental impacts during construction works 
 
environmental impacts on completion/operation of the proposed 
development 
 
where appropriate, environmental impacts a suitable number of 
years after completion of the proposed development (for example, in 
order to allow for traffic growth or maturing of any landscape 
proposals), and 
 
environmental impacts during decommissioning. 
In terms of decommissioning, the SoS acknowledges that the further into 
the future any assessment is made, the less reliance may be placed on 
the outcome. However, the purpose of such a long term assessment, as 
well as to enable the decommissioning of the works to be taken into 
account, is to encourage early consideration as to how structures can be 
taken down. The purpose of this is to seek to minimise disruption, to re-
use materials and to restore the site or put it to a suitable new use. The 
SoS encourages consideration of such matters in the ES. 
 
 
 
Appendix 3 
 
 
The SoS recommends that these matters should be set out clearly in the 
ES and that the suitable time period for the assessment should be agreed 
with the relevant statutory consultees.  
The SoS recommends that throughout the ES a standard terminology for 
time periods should be defined, such that for example, ‘short term’ always 
refers to the same period of time.   
Baseline 
The SoS recommends that the baseline should describe the position from 
which the impacts of the proposed development are measured. The 
baseline should be chosen carefully and, whenever possible, be consistent 
between topics. The identification of a single baseline is to be welcomed in 
terms of the approach to the assessment, although it is recognised that 
this may not always be possible. 
The SoS recommends that the baseline environment should be clearly 
explained in the ES, including any dates of surveys, and care should be 
taken to ensure that all the baseline data remains relevant and up to date.  
For each of the environmental topics, the data source(s) for the baseline 
should be set out together with any survey work undertaken with the 
dates.  The timing and scope of all surveys should be agreed with the 
relevant statutory bodies and appropriate consultees, wherever possible.   
The baseline situation and the proposed development should be described 
within the context of the site and any other proposals in the vicinity. 
Identification of Impacts and Method Statement 
Legislation and Guidelines 
In terms of the EIA methodology, the SoS recommends that reference 
should be made to best practice and any standards, guidelines and 
legislation that have been used to inform the assessment. This should 
include guidelines prepared by relevant professional bodies. 
In terms of other regulatory regimes, the SoS recommends that relevant 
legislation and all permit and licences required should be listed in the ES 
where relevant to each topic. This information should also be submitted 
with the application in accordance with the APFP Regulations. 
In terms of assessing the impacts, the ES should approach all relevant 
planning and environmental policy – local, regional and national (and 
where appropriate international) – in a consistent manner. 
Assessment of Effects and Impact Significance 
The EIA Regulations require the identification of the ‘likely significant 
effects of the development on the environment’ (Schedule 4 Part 1 
paragraph 20). 
 
 
 
Appendix 3 
 
 
As a matter of principle, the SoS applies the precautionary approach to 
follow the Court’s4 reasoning in judging ‘significant effects’. In other words 
‘likely to affect’ will be taken as meaning that there is a probability or risk 
that the proposed development will have an effect, and not that a 
development will definitely have an effect. 
The SoS considers it is imperative for the ES to define the meaning of 
‘significant’ in the context of each of the specialist topics and for 
significant impacts to be clearly identified. The SoS recommends that the 
criteria should be set out fully and that the ES should set out clearly the 
interpretation of ‘significant’ in terms of each of the EIA topics. 
Quantitative criteria should be used where available. The SoS considers 
that this should also apply to the consideration of cumulative impacts and 
impact inter-relationships. 
The SoS recognises that the way in which each element of the 
environment may be affected by the proposed development can be 
approached in a number of ways. However it considers that it would be 
helpful, in terms of ease of understanding and in terms of clarity of 
presentation, to consider the impact assessment in a similar manner for 
each of the specialist topic areas. The SoS recommends that a common 
format should be applied where possible.  
Inter-relationships between environmental factors 
The inter-relationship between aspects of the environments likely to be 
significantly affected is a requirement of the EIA Regulations (see 
Schedule 4 Part 1 of the EIA Regulations). These occur where a number of 
separate impacts, e.g. noise and air quality, affect a single receptor such 
as fauna. 
The SoS considers that the inter-relationships between factors must be 
assessed in order to address the environmental impacts of the proposal as 
a whole. This will help to ensure that the ES is not a series of separate 
reports collated into one document, but rather a comprehensive 
assessment drawing together the environmental impacts of the proposed 
development. This is particularly important when considering impacts in 
terms of any permutations or parameters to the proposed development. 
Cumulative Impacts  
The potential cumulative impacts with other major developments will need 
to be identified, as required by the Directive. The significance of such 
impacts should be shown to have been assessed against the baseline 
position (which would include built and operational development).  
                                       
4 See Landelijke Vereniging tot Behoud van de Waddenzee and Nederlandse 
Vereniging tot Bescherming van  Vogels v Staatssecretris van Landbouw 
(Waddenzee Case No C 127/02/2004) 
 
 
 
 
Appendix 3 
 
 
In assessing cumulative impacts, other major development should be 
identified through consultation with the local planning authorities and 
other relevant authorities on the basis of those that are: 
 
projects that are under construction 
 
permitted application(s) not yet implemented 
 
submitted application(s) not yet determined  
 
all refusals subject to appeal procedures not yet determined  
 
projects on the National Infrastructure’s programme of projects, and 
 
projects identified in the relevant development plan (and emerging 
development plans - with appropriate weight being given as they 
move closer to adoption) recognising that much information on any 
relevant proposals will be limited. 
Details should be provided in the ES, including the types of development, 
location and key aspects that may affect the EIA and how these have been 
taken into account as part of the assessment.   
The SoS recommends that offshore wind farms should also take account 
of any offshore licensed and consented activities in the area, for the 
purposes of assessing cumulative effects, through consultation with the 
relevant licensing/consenting bodies. 
For the purposes of identifying any cumulative effects with other 
developments in the area, applicants should also consult consenting 
bodies in other EU states to assist in identifying those developments (see 
commentary on Transboundary Effects below). 
Related Development 
The ES should give equal prominence to any development which is related 
with the proposed development to ensure that all the impacts of the 
proposal are assessed.   
The SoS recommends that the applicant should distinguish between the 
proposed development for which development consent will be sought and 
any other development. This distinction should be clear in the ES.  
Alternatives 
The ES must set out an outline of the main alternatives studied by the 
applicant and provide an indication of the main reasons for the applicant’s 
choice, taking account of the environmental effect (Schedule 4 Part 1 
paragraph 18). 
Matters should be included, such as inter alia alternative design options 
and alternative mitigation measures. The justification for the final choice 
and evolution of the scheme development should be made clear.  Where 
other sites have been considered, the reasons for the final choice should 
be addressed. 
  
 
 
 
Appendix 3 
 
 
The SoS advises that the ES should give sufficient attention to the 
alternative forms and locations for the off-site proposals, where 
appropriate, and justify the needs and choices made in terms of the form 
of the development proposed and the sites chosen. 
Mitigation Measures  
Mitigation measures may fall into certain categories namely: avoid; 
reduce; compensate or enhance (see Schedule 4 Part 1 paragraph 21); 
and should be identified as such in the specialist topics. Mitigation 
measures should not be developed in isolation as they may relate to more 
than one topic area. For each topic, the ES should set out any mitigation 
measures required to prevent, reduce and where possible offset any 
significant adverse effects, and to identify any residual effects with 
mitigation in place. Any proposed mitigation should be discussed and 
agreed with the relevant consultees. 
The effectiveness of mitigation should be apparent. Only mitigation 
measures which are a firm commitment and can be shown to be 
deliverable should be taken into account as part of the assessment. 
It would be helpful if the mitigation measures proposed could be cross 
referred to specific provisions and/or requirements proposed within the 
draft development consent order. This could be achieved by means of 
describing the mitigation measures proposed either in each of the 
specialist reports or collating these within a summary section on 
mitigation. 
The SoS advises that it is considered best practice to outline in the ES, the 
structure of the environmental management and monitoring plan and 
safety procedures which will be adopted during construction and operation 
and may be adopted during decommissioning. 
Cross References and Interactions 
The SoS recommends that all the specialist topics in the ES should cross 
reference their text to other relevant disciplines. Interactions between the 
specialist topics is essential to the production of a robust assessment, as 
the ES should not be a collection of separate specialist topics, but a 
comprehensive assessment of the environmental impacts of the proposal 
and how these impacts can be mitigated. 
As set out in EIA Regulations Schedule 4 Part 1 paragraph 23, the ES 
should include an indication of any technical difficulties (technical 
deficiencies or lack of know-how) encountered by the applicant in 
compiling the required information. 
Consultation 
The SoS recommends that any changes to the scheme design in response 
to consultation should be addressed in the ES. 
 
 
 
Appendix 3 
 
 
It is recommended that the applicant provides preliminary environmental 
information (PEI) (this term is defined in the EIA Regulations under 
regulation 2 ‘Interpretation’) to the local authorities.  
Consultation with the local community should be carried out in accordance 
with the SoCC which will state how the applicant intends to consult on the 
preliminary environmental information (PEI). This PEI could include results 
of detailed surveys and recommended mitigation actions. Where effective 
consultation is carried out in accordance with Section 47 of the Planning 
Act, this could usefully assist the applicant in the EIA process – for 
example the local community may be able to identify possible mitigation 
measures to address the impacts identified in the PEI. Attention is drawn 
to the duty upon applicants under Section 50 of the Planning Act to have 
regard to the guidance on pre-application consultation. 
Transboundary Effects 
The SoS recommends that consideration should be given in the ES to any 
likely significant effects on the environment of another Member State of 
the European Economic Area. In particular, the SoS recommends 
consideration should be given to discharges to the air and water and to 
potential impacts on migratory species and to impacts on shipping and 
fishing areas.  
The Applicant’s attention is also drawn to the Planning Inspectorate’s 
Advice Note 12 ‘Development with significant transboundary impacts 
consultation’ which is available on the Advice Notes Page of the National 
Infrastructure Planning website 
Summary Tables 
The SoS recommends that in order to assist the decision making process, 
the applicant may wish to consider the use of tables: 
Table X 
to identify and collate the residual impacts after mitigation on 
the 
basis 
of 
specialist 
topics, 
inter-relationships 
and 
cumulative impacts. 
Table XX 
to demonstrate how the assessment has taken account of 
this Opinion and other responses to consultation.  
Table XXX to set out the mitigation measures proposed, as well as 
assisting the reader, the SoS considers that this would also 
enable the applicant to cross refer mitigation to specific 
provisions proposed to be 
included 
within 
the 
draft 
Development Consent Order. 
Table XXXX to cross reference where details in the HRA (where one is 
provided) such as descriptions of sites and their locations, 
together with any mitigation or compensation measures, are 
to be found in the ES. 
 
 
 
Appendix 3 
 
 
Terminology and Glossary of Technical Terms 
The SoS recommends that a common terminology should be adopted. This 
will help to ensure consistency and ease of understanding for the decision 
making process. For example, ‘the site’ should be defined and used only in 
terms of this definition so as to avoid confusion with, for example, the 
wider site area or the surrounding site.  
A glossary of technical terms should be included in the ES.  
Presentation 
The ES should have all of its paragraphs numbered, as this makes 
referencing easier as well as accurate.  
Appendices must be clearly referenced, again with all paragraphs 
numbered.  
All figures and drawings, photographs and photomontages should be 
clearly referenced.  Figures should clearly show the proposed site 
application boundary. 
Bibliography 
A bibliography should be included in the ES. The author, date and 
publication title should be included for all references.  All publications 
referred to within the technical reports should be included. 
Non Technical Summary 
The EIA Regulations require a Non Technical Summary (EIA Regulations 
Schedule 4 Part 1 paragraph 22). This should be a summary of the 
assessment in simple language. It should be supported by appropriate 
figures, photographs and photomontages. 
 
 
 
