Abergelli Power Limited (APL) proposes to develop a gas-fired power plant 
with a rated electrical output of up to 299 MW on land adjacent to the 
Felindre Gas Compressor Station at Abergelli Farm, Felindre. Using modern 
and efficient electricity power generation technology, the plant will support 
the country’s transition to a low-carbon economy.
This exhibition provides information on:
l Abergelli Power
l  The need for new electricity generation fuelled by natural gas and our 
reasons for choosing Abergelli Farm
l  The Development Consent Order (DCO) planning and consultation 
process – at local and national levels
l The proposed Project
l Project timeline
l Results of our Preliminary Environmental Information Report (PEIR)
l Community benefits
l This phase of consultation and how to provide feedback.
Under the new ownership of UK energy company Drax Group plc, APL 
is resuming the DCO process, building on the previous consultation and 
environmental work undertaken in 2014.
Preliminary Environmental Assessment 
Steps to mitigate the impact of the Project on the local environment 
during its construction, operation, maintenance and decommissioning 
are a major part of the consultation and planning process.
Due to the nature and size of the Project, APL is undertaking an 
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA). The EIA considers the potential 
positive and negative impacts of the Project and APL has published 
interim findings in the PEIR.  The PEIR, along with a non-technical 
summary, is available for inspection today, as well at local libraries. It 
can also be viewed at www.abergellipower.co.uk. 
Community Benefits
This £100m Project would be a substantial investment in the area and 
would deliver significant economic benefits for a period of at least 25 
years, including:
l Creation of up to 150 jobs during a 2-year construction period
l  Creation of up to 15 permanent skilled jobs for ongoing operation 
and maintenance of the facility
l Potential business opportunities for local suppliers.
APL will consult City and County of Swansea Council on ways to bring 
wider social and environmental benefits to the surrounding area.
Comment and Feedback
Your feedback is important to the consultation process. We would like 
to invite your views on:
l  The Power Generation Plant, as currently proposed, including 
changes since the 2014 consultation
l  The proposed route option(s) for the Access Road
l  The findings of the preliminary assessment on the likely significant 
environmental effects of the Project during construction and 
operation, as set out in the PEIR.
This consultation phase will end on Monday 19 February 2018, and we 
would welcome your views on or before this date. 
Planning and Public Consultation
The Project is classified as a Nationally Significant Infrastructure Project, 
which means that a DCO is required to build, operate and maintain it. 
The DCO application will be processed and examined by the Planning 
Inspectorate and the final decision on the application will be made by the 
Secretary of State for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy. 
For generating stations in Wales which are below 350 MW generating 
capacity, the Planning Act 2008 restricts what can be applied for through 
the DCO process to integral development.  For the Project, the integral 
elements are the Power Generation Plant, the Laydown Area/Maintenance 
Compound and the Access Road. Therefore, the DCO application will not 
seek consent to construct and operate the gas or electrical connections. 
Instead, separate planning applications for these will be made to the City 
and County of Swansea Council. 
Consultation with the City and County of Swansea Council, local people, 
businesses, and community councils in the area is an essential part of the 
DCO application process and will help to inform the final design of the 
Project.
APL is also liaising closely with organisations such as Natural Resources 
Wales (NRW) to ensure that the plant will be designed, built, operated and 
maintained to the highest relevant and current safety and environmental 
standards.
Proposal to build a gas-fired power station
Stag Energy
Abergelli Power Timeline Alterations
Construction start
Commercial
operation
Statutory Consultation
Period
2018
16 Jan – 19 Feb
Statutory Public 
Exhibitions
2018
7 Feb - 10 Feb 
2020
Submission of Application 
for Development Consent 
Order to Planning 
Inspectorate
Q2 2018
Decision from 
Secretary of State
Q3 2019
2022
Pre Application
 
Examination & Decision
Construction & Operations
Development of the Project
 As a result of consultation, feedback and technical and environmental 
studies, several significant changes have occurred since the previous 
consultation events in 2014: 
l Reduction in the number of stacks from a maximum of five to one
l Changing the maximum stack height from 40 m to 45 m
l  Consolidating the Generating Equipment Site to the north of the  
Water Main
l  Selecting an access route from the B4489 to the west of the Generating 
Equipment instead of the access route from the north
l  Selecting an underground cable option for the Electrical Connection, 
instead of an overhead line option. 
The Project Key Details
l  The construction, operation and maintenance of an Open Cycle Gas 
Turbine (also known as a Simple Cycle Gas Turbine) Power Generation 
Plant 
l The Power Generation Plant will produce electricity from natural gas
l  It is designed to provide flexible back-up generation capacity, which 
can respond quickly and efficiently to short-term variation in electricity 
demand, intermittent output from renewable power generation and 
periods of system stress
l  The Power Generation Plant could operate for up to a maximum of 2,250 
hours in any given year, provided that the 5-year rolling average does not 
exceed 1,500 hours per year
l The Power Generation Plant will have one stack of up to 45 m in height
l  The construction of a new underground electrical connection to the 
nearby Swansea North Substation
l  The construction of a new underground pipeline to bring natural gas to 
the Power Generation Plant from the National Gas Transmission System
l Extension to an existing access road from the B4489
l Ecological Mitigation Area
l  The Power Generation Plant could become operational in 2022, subject 
to public consultation, planning and market conditions.
Although a preliminary preferred layout of the Power Generation Plant has 
been identified, the final location and layout are yet to be determined.
Why Abergelli Farm?
The site at Abergelli Farm has two key advantages in terms of planning:
l  The site is close to the national gas and electricity transmission  
networks; and
l  National Grid encourages new electricity generation development in 
south Wales, close to the main sources of electrical demand in the UK.
www.abergellipower.co.uk
Illustrative visual of the Power Generation Plant with a single turbine and stack.
Raw/Fire 
Water Tank
Stack
Gas Turbine 
Generator
Transformer
Access Road
Control Room 
Office/Workshop
Indicative timeline
Untitled map
Untitled layer
