 
Model: What increased woody biomass use
looks like for the global forest ecosystem
27 March 2020, by Adam Daigneault
  
 
  
Regional changes in forest area relative to 2010 for
forest carbon rental and carbon penalty scenarios. RCP
8.5 = very weak climate change policy; RCP 1.9 = very
strong climate change policy. Credit: University of Maine
Incentivizing both sequestration and avoidance of
emissions— using a carbon rental or carbon tax and
subsidy approach—versus only a carbon tax
encourages protection of natural forests by valuing
the standing stock, according to a new study led by
Georgia Institute of Technology. 
In their study, the research team—Alice Favero,
associate director of Graduate Studies at Georgia
Institute of Technology's School of Public Policy;
Adam Daigneault, University of Maine E.L.
Giddings Assistant Professor of Forest,
Conservation and Recreation Policy; and Brent
Sohngen, professor of environmental economics at
Ohio State University—addressed the impacts of
woody biomass demand on forest harvests, prices
and related timber management issues. Their
findings on the consequences of bioenergy policies
on forests and carbon emissions are published in
the journal Science Advances.
Using the global timber model (GTM) to assess
how bioenergy demand affects the forestry sector,
forestland and carbon sequestration, the
researchers compared timber harvesting and
management in more than 200 managed and
natural forest ecosystems across 16 world regions
under different bioenergy demand scenarios,
including a no-bioenergy demand scenario, to
isolate the role of management on forest carbon
stocks.
While policy approaches vary on the regional level,
their modeling analysis of the forest carbon rental
payment approach indicates that forest area will
increase substantially across the globe, with
medium price scenarios leading to 500 million to
700 million new hectares of forests. While about
10% of this new forest is intensively managed
nonindigenous plantation types, most of the gain in
forests occurs in types that are managed less
intensively through traditional silvicultural methods. 
The study also shows that the carbon rental
approach safely maintains most natural forests
throughout much of the world, and encourages an
expansion in natural forests in tropical regions
where carbon density is high. 
                               1 / 3
 
"We can have our cake and eat it too," says
Daigneault. "Our findings illustrate that a sensible
climate policy includes a large biomass program
matched with a carbon sequestration program that
together promote afforestation, forest management
and forest protection."
The findings can advance the policy discussion by
capturing realistic dynamics of how landowners
respond to incentives; namely, that economic
incentives from biomass and carbon markets can
promote more forest management and
afforestation, Daigneault says. "Furthermore, our
model accounts for past accumulation of carbon
embodied in current forest stocks, which is an
important component of the global carbon budget."
For Maine and Georgia, two states at the center of
forestry in the United States, the model shows that
a biomass policy with carbon sequestration
incentives would be a great boon to the forestry
sector. 
"There are opportunities in Maine to increase
investments in the timber industry if biomass
energy markets emerge, and this study indicates
how we can do it safely for the environment," says
forestry professional Kenny Fergusson of Huber
Resources Corp. 
A concern of many environmental organizations is
expansion of biomass energy in the U.S. and
globally that would harm ecosystems by
encouraging most forests to become industrial
timber plantations. This study shows how that can
be avoided, according to the researchers.
"This study highlights how we need to move
beyond the biomass carbon neutrality debate,"
Favero says. "Policy should not be a focus on
either forest carbon or biomass carbon, but rather
how to incentivize both. Simply penalizing
emissions from bioenergy without an offsetting
subsidy for carbon accumulation is an inefficient
climate policy because it creates relatively less
demand for forest products, depresses timber
prices and reduces forest area."
By taking into account dynamic market and
management responses, the study provides an
improved understanding of the benefits and risks of
increasing global bioenergy demand on forests and
forest carbon mitigation potential under alternative 
policy scenarios, the researchers write. 
  More information: Alice Favero et al. Forests:
Carbon sequestration, biomass energy, or both?, 
Science Advances (2020). DOI:
10.1126/sciadv.aay6792
  Provided by University of Maine
                               2 / 3
 
APA citation: Model: What increased woody biomass use looks like for the global forest ecosystem
(2020, March 27) retrieved 29 April 2020 from https://phys.org/news/2020-03-woody-biomass-global-
forest-ecosystem.html
This document is subject to copyright. Apart from any fair dealing for the purpose of private study or research, no
part may be reproduced without the written permission. The content is provided for information purposes only.
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org)
                               3 / 3
