Appendix 8.1
Preliminary Ecological Appraisal Report
(Non-Confidential)
 
 
Abergelli Power Project
Preliminary Ecological
Appraisal - NON-CONFIDENTIAL
 
 
 
Abergelli Power Limited 
December 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – PRELIMINARY ECOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT (NON-CONFIDENTIAL) 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
1 
 
 
Document Control 
Document Properties 
Organisation 
AECOM 
Author 
Clare Morgans 
Approved by (1st checker) 
Ursula Jones 
Approved by (2nd checker) 
Kevin Webb 
Title 
Preliminary Ecological Appraisal 
Document Reference 
 
Version History 
Date 
Version 
Status 
Description/Changes 
01/12/2017 
V1 
 
Reformat of Version 1 
14/12/2017 
V1 
 
Address APL comments 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prepared for: 
Abergelli Power Limited 
 
 
Prepared by: 
 
 
 AECOM Limited 
3rd Floor 
Portwall Place 
Portwall Lane 
Bristol 
BS1 6NA 
UK 
 
T: +44 117 901 7000 
aecom.com 
  
 
 
 
© 2016 AECOM Limited. All Rights Reserved.   
This document has been prepared by AECOM Limited (“AECOM”) for sole use of our client (the “Client”) in accordance 
with generally accepted consultancy principles, the budget for fees and the terms of reference agreed between AECOM 
and the Client. Any information provided by third parties and referred to herein has not been checked or verified by 
AECOM, unless otherwise expressly stated in the document. No third party may rely upon this document without the prior 
and express written agreement of AECOM. 
  
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – PRELIMINARY ECOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT (NON-CONFIDENTIAL) 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
2 
 
CONTENTS 
1. 
Executive Summary ........................................................................................... 4 
2. 
Introduction ........................................................................................................ 8 
2.1 Introduction ............................................................................................... 8 
2.2 Proposed Development ............................................................................. 8 
2.3 Objectives ................................................................................................. 8 
2.4 Wildlife Legislation and Planning Policy .................................................... 9 
2.5 Quality Assurance .................................................................................... 11 
3. 
Methodology ..................................................................................................... 11 
3.1 Desk Study ............................................................................................... 11 
3.2 Extended Phase 1 Habitat Survey ........................................................... 12 
3.3 Assessment of Bat Potential ................................................................... 12 
3.4 Limitations ............................................................................................... 15 
4. 
Baseline Conditions ......................................................................................... 16 
4.1 Desk Study Results ................................................................................. 16 
4.2 Extended Phase 1 Habitat Survey ........................................................... 23 
4.3 Protected and Priority Species ................................................................ 26 
4.4 Invasive Species Subject to Legal Controls ............................................ 32 
4.5 Bat Roost Assessment ............................................................................ 33 
5. 
Ecological Constraints and Indicative Potential Impacts .................................. 35 
5.2 Indicative Potential Impacts ..................................................................... 35 
6. 
Further Surveys and Recommendations ......................................................... 36 
6.1 Further Surveys ....................................................................................... 36 
6.2 Recommendations for Further Work ....................................................... 40 
6.3 Recommendations for Consultation ........................................................ 41 
6.4 Recommendations for Mitigation and Enhancement ............................... 42 
7. 
References ...................................................................................................... 45 
8. 
Appendices ...................................................................................................... 46 
Figure 1: Phase 1 Habitat Map ................................................................................. 46 
Figure 2: Designated Sites ....................................................................................... 47 
Appendix A Wildlife Legislation and Local Planning Policy ....................................... 48 
8.2 Legislation – Habitats .............................................................................. 48 
8.3 Legislation – Protected Species .............................................................. 49 
8.4 Local Planning Policy .............................................................................. 52 
Appendix B Target Notes for Phase 1 Habitat Map .................................................. 58 
Appendix C Site Photographs .................................................................................. 61 
 
 
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – PRELIMINARY ECOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT (NON-CONFIDENTIAL) 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
3 
 
TABLES 
Table 3-1: Building and Tree Bat Roost Potential Categories ................................... 12 
Table 3-2: Commuting and Foraging Habitat Potential Categories ........................... 15 
Table 4-1: Desk Study Results ................................................................................. 16 
Table 4-2: Phase 1 Habitats and Descriptions .......................................................... 23 
Table 4-3: Protected and Priority Species Potential ................................................. 26 
Table 4-4: Invasive Species Subject to Legal Controls ............................................. 32 
Table 4-5: Features Assessed as Having Potential to Support Roosting Bats.......... 33 
Table 6-1: Index of probability of finding dormice present in nest tubes in any one month 39 
 
 
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – PRELIMINARY ECOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT (NON-CONFIDENTIAL) 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
4 
 
1. 
Executive Summary 
1.1.1 
AECOM was instructed by Abergelli Power Limited to carry out a Preliminary 
Ecological Appraisal (PEA) of the Abergelli site, hereafter referred to as ‘the Project 
Site’. The central grid reference for the Project Site is SN 6528 0143 and the 
boundary of the Project Site is shown on Figure 1.  
1.1.2 
The Project Site supports woodland, rows of trees, standalone trees, dense and 
scattered scrub, improved, semi-improved and marshy grassland, tall ruderal 
vegetation, running water, fences and bare ground (hard standing).   
1.1.3 
The Project will require the partial removal of hedgerows, semi-natural broadleaved 
woodland, rows of trees, scrub, running water, ponds, hardstanding, marshy semi-
improved and improved grassland and trees with potential for roosting bats.   
1.1.4 
The Project Site has potential to support the following protected species; marshy 
fritillary butterfly, great crested newt, reptiles, breeding birds, bats, hazel dormouse, 
badger, polecat, otter and water vole. The site may support important hedgerows. 
1.1.5 
In order to inform the production of an Ecological Impact Assessment as part of a 
wider Environmental Impact Assessment the following surveys are recommended: 
Feature/Species 
Details 
Survey Timing 
Important Hedgerows 
Hedgerows proposed to be removed as 
part of the development should be 
assessed 
by 
a 
suitably 
qualified 
ecologist to determine if they are 
classified as an important hedgerow 
under the hedgerow regulations, 1997 
(Ref. 1). 
April to early-June 
Tree 
Preservation 
Orders (TPO) 
A survey to identify TPO trees outside of 
the Project Site boundary which will be 
affected by the works should be 
undertaken. 
Anytime 
Invertebrates (including 
marsh fritillary butterfly) 
Consultation with NRW and the local 
planning authority required to determine 
the need for further surveys.  
To be confirmed. 
Great Crested Newt 
Surveys for great crested newts to be 
undertaken on suitable ponds within the 
Project Site boundary, and within 500 m 
of 
the 
Project 
Site 
boundary 
to 
determine if they are present in the 
area. 
Manual surveys: 
Between mid-March and 
mid-June; two of which 
should be between mid-
April and mid-May. 
eDNA sampling surveys: 
Water samples must be 
taken between the 15th 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – PRELIMINARY ECOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT (NON-CONFIDENTIAL) 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
5 
 
Feature/Species 
Details 
Survey Timing 
April and 30th June.  
Reptiles 
Presence absence surveys in suitable 
areas of habitat using artificial refugia 
Seven surveys to be 
undertaken between April 
and September, avoiding 
the summer months of 
July 
and 
August 
if 
possible. 
Breeding Birds 
Breeding bird surveys to be undertaken 
within suitable areas of habitat within the 
site to assess presence, population and 
activity of birds. Particular focus will be 
paid 
to 
protected/priority 
species 
breeding in woodland, hedgerows and 
scrub and ground nesting birds in 
particular lapwing in areas of marshy 
and semi-improved grassland. 
Breeding birds - four 
visits between March and 
July. 
Bats 
– 
Tree 
Assessments 
If trees or broadleaved semi-natural 
woodland within the Project Site are to 
be removed or illuminated by external 
lighting a preliminary ground level roost 
assessment should be undertaken on all 
trees. 
Anytime, ideally in winter 
Bats – Building and 
Structure Assessments  
Buildings and/or structures within the 
vicinity of the Project Site should be 
assessed for their potential to support 
summer roosting and winter hibernating 
bats. 
Anytime 
Bats 
– 
Tree 
Roost 
Survey 
Any trees to be removed which have 
been assessed as having low potential 
to support roosting bats will not be 
subject 
to 
further 
surveys, 
but 
precautionary 
measures 
may 
be 
appropriate during felling or pruning 
activities. 
Any trees to be removed which have 
been assessed as having moderate or 
high potential to support roosting bats 
may require a further Potential Roost 
Feature 
(PRF) 
climbed 
inspection 
survey 
and/or 
will 
require 
presence/absence 
surveys 
to 
be 
undertaken 
May - September 
Bats – Buildings and 
Structures Survey 
Any buildings or structures assessed as 
having potential to support roosting bats 
may require an internal inspection, 
Summer Roosts:  
May - September. Up to 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – PRELIMINARY ECOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT (NON-CONFIDENTIAL) 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
6 
 
Feature/Species 
Details 
Survey Timing 
winter hibernations survey, and/or will 
require presence/absence surveys to be 
undertaken. 
To establish roost presence or likely 
absence up to three manual surveys 
(dusk/dawn) 
are 
to 
be 
completed 
following the Bat Survey Guidelines 
(Ref. 2). 
three visits. 
 
Winter Roosts: 
October - April 
Bats – Activity Survey 
Transect Surveys: 
Two site visits a month, for each month 
between April and October inclusive for 
walked transects. Two people must be 
present on each transect. Transects will 
incorporate all areas of suitable habitat. 
Particular focus will be on commuting 
bats using the hedgerows and tree lines. 
The transect route will depend on 
suitable and safe access. 
Automated/Static Activity Surveys: 
Three locations per transect with data to 
be collected on five consecutive nights 
per month, for each month between 
April and October inclusive for remote 
detector surveys. The devices will 
placed out and retrieved after each 
session.  Recordings are then analysed 
in the office.   
April - October. 
Two site visits per month.
Hazel Dormouse 
A consultation with NRW and the local 
planning authority will be required to 
determine if further surveys for hazel 
dormouse are required.  
If surveys are required. 
Dormouse tubes must be 
deployed within suitable 
areas 
of 
habitat 
and 
surveys 
must 
be 
undertaken 
once 
per 
month between April and 
November.  
Badger 
ctober - April 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – PRELIMINARY ECOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT (NON-CONFIDENTIAL) 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
7 
 
Feature/Species 
Details 
Survey Timing 
Otter 
An otter survey should be undertaken 
along watercourses and ditches and at 
least 100 m from the Project Site to 
ascertain presence and distribution. 
Otters have previously been identified 
within the local area (see Table 4-1) 
Anytime 
Water Vole 
A 
water 
vole 
survey 
should 
be 
undertaken. 
Two 
surveys 
required: 
one mid-April – June, and 
another 
July 
–
September, at least 2 
months apart.  
Invasive 
Non-Native 
Plants 
An INNS survey is required within areas 
that could not be accessed during the 
PEA. 
May - September 
 
1.1.6 
The Executive Summary is not a substitute for the full report. Refer to the full text 
for further detail. 
 
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – PRELIMINARY ECOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT (NON-CONFIDENTIAL) 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8 
 
2. 
Introduction 
2.1 
Introduction  
2.1.1 
AECOM was instructed by Abergelli Power Limited (APL) to carry out a Preliminary 
Ecological Appraisal (PEA) of the Abergelli site, hereafter referred to as ‘the Project 
Site’. The central grid reference for the Project Site is SN 6528 0143 and the 
boundary of the Project Site is shown on Figure 1.  
2.1.2 
This PEA was commissioned to identify whether there are known or potential 
ecological receptors (nature conservation designations, and protected and notable 
habitats and species) that may constrain or influence the design and 
implementation of the Project. The approach applied when undertaking this PEA 
pays due regard to the Guidelines for Preliminary Ecological Appraisal published by 
the Chartered Institute of Ecology and Environmental Management (Ref. 3). The 
PEA addresses relevant wildlife legislation and planning policy as summarised in 
Section 2 of this report.  
2.1.3 
In order to deliver the PEA, a desk study and an extended Phase 1 Habitat Survey 
were undertaken by an appropriately experienced ecologist, to identify ecological 
features within the Project Site and the wider potential zone of influence of the 
Project. The potential zone of influence was defined with reference to the project 
description provided by APL as shown as the habitats surveyed on Figure 1. 
Additional details are provided in Section 3: Methodology. 
2.2 
Proposed Development 
2.2.1 
The Project Site is located near to the village of Felindre, Swansea, as shown in 
Figure 1.1 of the ES, and the central grid reference for the Project Site is 
SN65280143. The Project Site is approximately 30.66 ha. A full description of the 
development is provided in Chapter 3: Project and Site Description) of the PEIR.  
2.2.2 
The development will require the removal of hedgerows, semi-natural broadleaved 
woodland, rows of trees, scrub, running water, ponds, hardstanding, marshy 
grassland, semi-improved grassland, improved grassland, and trees with potential 
for roosting bats.   
2.2.3 
It is understood that construction is programmed to commence no sooner than 
2020/2021.  
2.3 
Objectives 
2.3.1 
The objectives of the PEA were: 
 
Identify designated nature conservation sites on or within proximity to the 
Project Site; 
 
Identify known records of protected or notable species within proximity to the 
Project Site; 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – PRELIMINARY ECOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT (NON-CONFIDENTIAL) 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
9 
 
 
Identify and categorise the main habitats and features of ecological interest
present within the Project Site ;
 
Appraise the potential for protected or notable species of fauna and flora;
 
Provide advice on potential ecological constraints and opportunities on or within
proximity to the Project Site;
 
Identify the requirement for further habitat and species surveys;
 
Make recommendations for requirements to avoid and mitigate ecological
impacts as well as opportunities for biodiversity enhancements; and,
 
Provide a map showing the Phase 1 habitats on the Project Site and features of
ecological interest.
2.3.2 
The purpose of this report is to support the submission of a Development Consent
Order (DCO) application. The report identifies the scope of further work (where
necessary) that would be required to support a DCO application. High level
recommendations are made on potential options for the avoidance, mitigation or
compensation of the potential impacts of the Project (where known) on the
identified ecological receptors, and of potential enhancements to the biodiversity
and ecosystem services. A full assessment of potential effects and mitigation will be
made during the Ecological Impact Assessment (EcIA).
2.4 
Wildlife Legislation and Planning Policy
Wildlife Legislation
2.4.1 
There are several different acts of legislation and regulations which refer to the
protection of wildlife. These are summarised in Appendix A. In particular, the
legislation relating to possible protected species on the Project Site is outlined. This
is a brief summary of the legislation and is not to be regarded as a definitive legal
opinion. When dealing with individual cases, the client is advised to consult the full
texts of the relevant legislation and obtain further legal advice.
2.4.2 
The following wildlife legislation is potentially relevant to the Project:
 
The Wildlife and Countryside Act (WCA) 1981 (as amended);
 
The Countryside and Rights of Way (CRoW) Act 2000;
 
The Conservation of Habitats & Species Regulations 2017;
 
Environment (Wales) Act 2016;
 
The Hedgerow Regulations 1997; and,
 
The Protection of Badgers Act 1992.
2.4.3 
The above legislation has been considered when planning and undertaking this
PEA using the methods described in Section 3, when identifying potential
constraints to the Project, and when making recommendations for further survey,
design options and mitigation, as discussed in Section 5. Compliance with
legislation may require the attainment of relevant protected species licences prior to
the implementation of the Project.
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – PRELIMINARY ECOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT (NON-CONFIDENTIAL) 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
10 
 
National Planning Policy 
Planning Policy Wales (8th Ed. January 2016) 
2.4.4 
Planning Policy Wales (PPW) sets out the land use planning policies of Welsh 
Government. It provides the policy framework for the preparation of Local 
Development Plans. Chapter 5, Conserving and Improving the Natural Heritage 
and Coast, outlines Welsh Government’s objectives for the conservation and 
improvement of natural heritage.  
Technical Advice Note 5 (TAN5) Nature Conservation and Planning (2009)  
2.4.5 
The Planning Policy Wales (PPW) is supplemented by a series of Technical Advice 
Notes. TAN 5 provides guidance on how the land use planning system should 
contribute to protecting and enhancing biodiversity and geological conservation.  It 
provides advice on areas including the key principles of positive planning for nature 
conservation, nature conservation in Local Development Plans and development 
management procedures. It also provides advice on development affecting 
designated sites and habitats, in addition to protected or priority habitats and 
species.  
2.4.6 
Key Principles include that the town and country planning system in Wales should 
integrate nature conservation into all planning decisions; that the town and country 
planning system should look for development to provide a net benefit for 
biodiversity conservation with no significant loss of habitats or populations of 
species, locally or nationally and that they should ensure that the UK’s international 
and national obligations for site, species and habitat protection are fully met in all 
planning decisions.  
Local Planning Policy 
2.4.7 
Local Development Plans (LDPs) must be produced by every Local Planning 
Authority in Wales. Any development proposal will be tested against the policies 
within the LDP. The LDPs follow the planning guidance provide in PPW, including 
biodiversity and natural heritage policies. These include protecting designated sites 
and other areas of importance for biodiversity conservation; safeguarding protected 
species and priority species, including those listed in local biodiversity action plans 
and retaining, creating and enhancing features of importance for biodiversity 
conservation where appropriate.  
2.4.8 
Relevant local planning policies for City and County of Swansea (CCS) are detailed 
in the adopted City and County of Swansea Unitary Development Plan.  
2.4.9 
CCS has also submitted the Swansea Local Development Plan 2010 – 2025 to the 
Secretary of State for Examination in public. This is an emerging development plan, 
and is not part of the statutory development plan. However, its policies are a 
material consideration. :  
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – PRELIMINARY ECOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT (NON-CONFIDENTIAL) 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
11 
 
2.4.10 Appendix A provides a summary of relevant local planning policies. For the precise 
wording of each specific policy please refer back to the source document. This 
planning policy has been considered when assessing potential ecological 
constraints and opportunities identified by the desk study and field surveys; and, 
when assessing requirements for further survey, design options and ecological 
mitigation, as described in Section 6. 
2.5 
Quality Assurance 
2.5.1 
This survey and subsequent report was undertaken in line with AECOM’s 
Integrated Management System (IMS). Our IMS places great emphasis on 
professionalism, technical excellence, quality, environmental and Health and Safety 
management. All staff members are committed to establishing and maintaining our 
certification to the international standards BS EN ISO 9001:2008 and 14001:2004 
and BS OHSAS 18001:2007. In addition our IMS requires careful selection and 
monitoring of the performance of all sub consultants and contractors.  
2.5.2 
All AECOM Ecologists who worked on this project are members of (at the 
appropriate level) the Chartered Institute of Ecology and Environmental 
Management (CIEEM) and follow their code of professional conduct (Ref. 4) when 
undertaking ecological work. 
3. 
Methodology 
3.1 
Desk Study 
3.1.1 
The objectives of the desk study are to review the existing information available in 
the public domain concerning species and habitats to identify the following: 
 
Internationally, nationally and locally designated sites, up to 2 km from the 
Project Site using the Multi Agency Geographic Information for the Countryside 
(MAGIC) website (www.magic.gov.uk);  
 
Protected and Priority species records and records of locally designated sites 
up to 2 km from the Project Site, using the South East Wales Biodiversity 
Records Centre (SEWBReC);  
 
Special Areas of Conservation (SACs) and Sites of Special Scientific Interest 
(SSSIs) designated for bats within a 10 km radius of the Site in accordance 
with Bat Conservation Trust (Collins, 2016) recommendations;  
 
Section 7 list of Species and Habitats of Principal Importance for Conservation 
of Biological Diversity in Wales;  
 
Ancient Semi-Natural Woodland (ASNW), Plantation on Ancient Woodland Site 
(PAWS), Restored Ancient Woodland Site (RAWS) or Ancient Woodland Site 
of Unknown category (AWSU) within or adjacent to the Project Site boundary 
using LLE dataset (http://lle.gov.wales/home);  
 
Tree Protection Orders (TPO’s) from Swansea Council; and, 
 
Aerial photographs and Ordnance Survey (OS) maps were reviewed to identify 
features of ecological interest surrounding the Project Site including ponds 
within 500 m, nearby areas of ecological interest and features connecting these 
habitats (hedgerows, watercourses, railway lines). 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – PRELIMINARY ECOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT (NON-CONFIDENTIAL) 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
12 
 
The reports of previous surveys undertaken by BSG Ecology and WSP/Parsons 
Brinckerhoff (WSP/PB) were provided by the client and were reviewed (Ref. 5).  
3.2 
Extended Phase 1 Habitat Survey 
3.2.1 
A Phase 1 Habitat Survey (Ref. 6) of the Project Site was undertaken by two 
suitably experienced ecologists of AECOM on the 18th and 19th May 2017.  
3.2.2 
The survey involved a site walkover and preliminary assessment of key habitats, 
land use and ecological features. The main habitats present were recorded using 
standard Phase 1 Habitat Survey methodology as described in the Handbook for 
Phase 1 Habitat Survey: A technique for Environmental Audit (JNCC, 2010). The 
plant species defining the habitat types on the Project Site were recorded. 
Evidence of any invasive plant species subject to legal controls was recorded. The 
Project Site was assessed for its potential to support protected or notable species 
in order to identify potential ecological constraints and to guide recommendations 
for further surveys.  
3.3 
Assessment of Bat Potential 
3.3.1 
During the Phase 1 Habitat Survey, where access allowed, trees and buildings 
throughout the Project Site were classified into categories dependent on the 
presence of features suitable as bat roost habitat.  
3.3.2 
Due to the size of the Project Site and the number of trees present within the 
Project Site boundary, it was not possible to make an assessment of every tree. 
However a number of trees were assessed during the Phase 1 Habitat Survey and 
the details of these are provided in Table 3-1 below. Trees within area of woodland 
present within or close to the Project Site boundary were not individually assessed 
but the woodlands were given an overall rating, based on species composition and 
age, of their likelihood to support roosting bats and/or the need for further 
assessment. 
3.3.3 
The assessment was conducted via an external appraisal from the ground using 
binoculars where necessary. Table 3-1 provides descriptions of the categories for 
buildings and trees.  
3.3.4 
Habitats on-site were classified into categories dependent on the presence of 
features suitable for bats to commute and forage. Table 3-2 provides descriptions 
for commuting and foraging habitats. 
Table 3-1: Building and Tree Bat Roost Potential Categories  
Roost 
Potential 
Descriptions for Buildings 
Descriptions for Trees 
Known or 
Confirmed 
Confirmed signs of bat presence/occupation 
(droppings, oily staining around entry points, 
insect remains, odour, scratching) and actual 
bat presence. 
Confirmed 
signs 
of 
bat 
presence/occupation 
(droppings, 
oily 
staining 
around entry points, insect 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – PRELIMINARY ECOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT (NON-CONFIDENTIAL) 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
13 
 
Roost 
Potential 
Descriptions for Buildings 
Descriptions for Trees 
remains, odour, scratching) 
and actual bat presence. 
High 
A structure with one or more potential roost 
sites that are obviously suitable for use by 
larger numbers of bats on a more regular 
basis and potentially for longer periods of 
time due to their size, shelter, protection, 
conditions 
(e.g. 
temperature, 
humidity, 
height above ground level, light levels or 
levels of disturbance) and surrounding 
habitat.  
Can include structures with points of access 
to the interior of the building and poorly 
maintained fabric providing ready access 
points for bats into structures, but at the 
same time not draughty. Structures of 
traditional 
stone, 
brick 
or 
timber 
construction. Structures with large (>20 cm) 
roof timbers with mortice joints, cracks and 
holes. Structures of pre or early 20th century 
construction. 
Structures 
with 
large 
complicated and/or uncluttered roof spaces 
providing 
unobstructed 
flying 
spaces. 
Structures with weather boarding and/or 
hanging tiles with gaps. Structures with 
accessible south facing roofs. Structures 
with proximity to good foraging habitat such 
as woodland, wetland, water and /or good 
hedgerows. 
A tree with one or more 
potential roost sites that are 
obviously suitable for use by 
larger numbers of bats on a 
more 
regular 
basis 
and 
potentially for longer periods 
of time due to their size, 
shelter, protection, conditions 
(e.g. temperature, humidity, 
height above ground level, 
light 
levels 
or 
levels 
of 
disturbance) and surrounding 
habitat.  
Moderate 
A structure with one or more potential roost 
sites that could be used by bats due to their 
size, shelter, protection, conditions (e.g. 
temperature, humidity, height above ground 
level, light levels or levels of disturbance) 
and surrounding habitat but unlikely to 
support a roost of high conservation status.  
Can include structures with some potential 
to support roosting bats, but fewer features 
than a high risk building. Features may 
include areas suitable for crevice dwelling 
and/or access points into structures. Some 
proximity to foraging habitat.  
A tree with one or more 
potential roost sites that could 
be used by bats due to their 
size, 
shelter, 
protection, 
conditions and surrounding 
habitat but unlikely to support 
a roost of high conservation 
status.  
Low 
A structure with one or more potential roost 
sites that could be used by individual bats 
opportunistically.  
However these potential roost sites do not 
provide enough space, shelter protection, 
Tree of sufficient size and age 
to 
contain 
potential 
roost 
features but with none seen 
from the ground or features 
seen have only very limited 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – PRELIMINARY ECOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT (NON-CONFIDENTIAL) 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
14 
 
Roost 
Potential 
Descriptions for Buildings 
Descriptions for Trees 
appropriate 
conditions 
and/or 
suitable 
habitat to be used on a regular basis or by 
large numbers of bats (i.e. unlikely to be 
suitable for maternity or hibernation). 
roosting potential.  
Negligible 
No features suitable for roosting bats.  
Can include structures constructed from 
unsuitable materials e.g. prefabricated with 
steel and sheet material. Structure is 
draughty, light and cool buildings with no 
roosting opportunities. High levels of regular 
disturbance 
including 
external 
and/or 
internal lighting. Building is isolated from 
areas of foraging habitat.  
Trees with no potential to 
support bats.  
(Source: Category descriptions drawn from Ref. 2 and Ref. 7, to be applied using professional judgement) 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – PRELIMINARY ECOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT (NON-CONFIDENTIAL) 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
15 
 
Table 3-2: Commuting and Foraging Habitat Potential Categories 
Commuting 
and 
Foraging 
Potential 
Descriptions  
High 
Continuous high-quality habitat that is well connected to the wider 
landscape that is likely to be used regularly by commuting bats such as river 
valleys, streams, hedgerows, lines of trees and woodland edge.  
High-quality habitat that is well connected to the wider landscape that is 
likely to be used regularly by foraging bats such as broadleaved woodland, 
tree-lined watercourses and grazed parkland.  
Project Site is close to and connected to known roosts.  
Moderate 
Continuous habitat connected to the wider landscape that could be used by 
bats for commuting such as lines of trees and scrub or linked back gardens. 
Habitat that is connected to the wider landscape that could be used by bats 
for foraging such as trees, scrub, grassland or water.  
Low 
Habitat that could be used by small numbers of commuting bats such as a 
gappy hedgerow or un-vegetated stream, but isolated, i.e. not very well 
connected to the surrounding landscape by other habitat.  
Suitable, but isolated habitat that could be used by small number of foraging 
bats such as a lone tree (not in a parkland situation) or a patch of scrub.  
Negligible 
Negligible habitat features on site likely to be used by commuting or 
foraging bats.  
(Source: Category descriptions drawn from Ref. 2 and Ref. 7, to be applied using professional judgement) 
3.4 
Limitations 
3.4.1 
Biological records can be received from a wide variety of sources and may or may 
not be comprehensive and accurate. However, if assessed in conjunction with a 
Phase 1 Habitat survey, they can contribute to a robust ecological assessment of a 
site.  
3.4.2 
Due to the size of the Project Site, it was not possible to assess every tree or 
building for its potential to support bats.  
3.4.3 
Some areas adjacent to but outside of the Project Site boundary were not 
accessible at the time of survey and as such these habitats were surveyed from the 
road at a distance.  
3.4.4 
Some areas within the Project Site boundary were not accessible due to the 
presence of horses; these habitats were surveyed at a distance.  
3.4.5 
There is potential for trees and/or buildings with the potential to support roosting 
bats to have gone unrecorded due to time and access restrictions. It is possible that 
some species, including invasive non-native plant species may not have been 
recorded due to access limitations.  
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – PRELIMINARY ECOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT (NON-CONFIDENTIAL) 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
16 
 
3.4.6 
Despite the limitations described, there are deemed to be no significant limitations 
to this PEA.  
4. 
Baseline Conditions 
4.1 
Desk Study Results 
4.1.1 
The designated habitats, sites and features within proximity to the Project Site are 
listed in Table 4-1 below and shown on Figure 2.  
Table 4-1: Desk Study Results 
Designation 
/Feature 
Description 
Designated Sites 
within 2 km  
Nant Y Crimp SSSI 
Distance and Direction: Approximately 1.3 km west 
Description: Nant y Crimp is of special interest for its wet pastures, 
species-rich neutral grasslands and semi-natural woodland as well 
as associated scrub, which are host to several uncommon plant 
species. 
Notable plant species recorded at the Site include petty whin 
Genista anglica, cranberry Vaccinium oxycoccos, narrow buckler 
fern 
Dryopteris 
carthusiana 
and 
whorled 
caraway 
Carum 
verticillatum, the latter an Atlantic species characteristic of 
unimproved pastures in the South Wales coalfield. 
In addition, there is also a colony of the marsh fritillary butterfly 
Euphydryas aurinia at the Site. This is a declining species confined
in South Wales to wet agriculturally unimproved pastures where its 
food plant, devil’s bit scabious Succisa pratensis, grows in 
profusion.  
 
Locally Designated 
Sites within 2 km 
Llety-Morfil SNCI 
Distance and Direction: Within the Project Site boundary 
Description: Supporting the habitats: native wet woodland, ancient 
woodland, structurally-diverse and species-rich scrub, and purple 
moor-grass and rush pasture; and the Section 7 listed moth, wall 
Lasiommata megera.  
 
Coed Barcud Wildlife Trust Reserve 
Distance and Direction: Adjacent to the north east of the Project 
Site. 
Description: A previously improved grassland field, planted up to 
become a future woodland. Within the boundary of Rhos Fawr
SNCI.  
 
Rhos Fawr SNCI 
Distance and Direction: Adjacent to the northern Project Site 
boundary 
Description: Supporting the habitats: woodland containing ancient 
woodland indicator species, structurally-diverse and species-rich 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – PRELIMINARY ECOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT (NON-CONFIDENTIAL) 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
17 
 
Designation 
/Feature 
Description 
scrub, species-rich neutral grassland, purple moor-grass and rush 
pasture, and watercourse with exposure/erosion features; and a 
number of Section 7 listed bird species.  
 
Felindre Grasslands SNCI 
Distance and Direction: Adjacent to the west of the Project Site 
boundary.  
Description: Native wet woodland, lowland mixed deciduous 
woodland, structurally-diverse and species-rich gorse scrub, and 
purple moor-grass and rush pasture; and a number of Section 7 
listed invertebrate and bird species, and the Schedule 1 listed birds 
barn owl Tyto alba and Northern goshawk Accipiter gentilis.  
 
Middle Llan SNCI 
Distance and Direction: Adjacent to the southern Project Site 
boundary 
Description: Supporting the habitats: Continuous semi-natural 
linear vegetation and watercourse with exposure/erosion features.  
 
Rhyd-Y-Pandy Valley and Grasslands SNCI 
Distance and Direction: Approximately 70 m east 
Description: Supporting the habitats: native wet woodland, 
woodland containing ancient woodland indicator species, gorse 
stands, 
lowland 
meadow, 
species-rich 
neutral 
grassland, 
structurally-diverse and species-rich scrub, purple moor-grass and 
rush pasture, reedbeds, and watercourse with exposure/erosion 
features; and a number of Section 7 listed invertebrate and bird 
species, and the Schedule 1 listed birds barn owl and red kite 
Milvus milvus. 
 
Waun Garn Wen SNCI 
Distance and Direction: Approximately 130 m west 
Description: Supporting the habitats: native wet woodland, 
structurally-diverse and species-rich scrub, purple moor-grass and 
rush pasture, and watercourse with exposure/erosion features; and 
a number of Section 7 listed invertebrate and bird species.  
 
Pant Lasau SNCI 
Distance and Direction: Approximately 120 m south 
Description: Supporting the habitats: native wet woodland, 
lowland mixed deciduous woodland, gorse stands, lowland fen, 
structurally-diverse and species-rich scrub, purple moor-grass and 
rush pasture, and watercourse with exposure/erosion features; and 
a number of Section 7 listed invertebrate and bird species.  
 
Cefn Forest Stream SNCI 
Distance and Direction: Approximately 230 m south west 
Description: Supporting the habitats: woodland containing ancient 
woodland indicator species, upland mixed ash woodland, native 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – PRELIMINARY ECOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT (NON-CONFIDENTIAL) 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
18 
 
Designation 
/Feature 
Description 
wet woodland, lowland mixed deciduous woodland, lowland 
meadow, species-rich neutral grassland, structurally-diverse and 
species-rich scrub, degraded lowland heath, lowland fen, purple 
moor-grass and rush pasture, ponds, and watercourse with 
exposure/erosion features; and a number of Section 7 listed 
invertebrate and bird species, and the Schedule 1 listed bird barn 
owl.  
 
Lower Lliw Resivoir SNCI 
Distance and Direction: Approximately 460 m north 
Description: Supporting the habitats: woodland containing ancient 
woodland indicator species, gorse stands, species-rich bracken, 
structurally-diverse and species-rich scrub, purple moor-grass and 
rush pasture, and watercourse with exposure/erosion features; and 
a number of Section 7 listed invertebrate and bird species, and the 
Schedule 1 listed birds kingfisher Alcedo atthis, merlin Falco 
columbarius and red kite.  
 
Middle Lliw SNCI 
Distance and Direction: Approximately 670 m north west 
Description: Supporting the habitats: ancient semi-natural 
woodland, woodland containing ancient woodland indicator 
species, structurally-diverse and species-rich scrub, gorse stands, 
species-rich neutral grassland, semi-improved lowland dry acid 
grassland, acid grassland with anthills, purple moor-grass and rush 
pasture, watercourse with exposure/erosion features, and species-
rich bracken; and a number of Section 7 listed invertebrate species. 
 
Cilfaen SNCI 
Distance and Direction: Approximately 760 m north west 
Description: Supporting the habitats: wet woodland, woodland 
containing ancient woodland indicator species, and purple moor-
grass and rush pasture.  
Designated Sites 
within 10 km 
designated for bats 
There are no sites designated for bats within 10 km of the Project 
Site.  
Protected and Priority 
Species Records 
from the last 10 years 
within 2 km 
The following species have been recorded within 2 km of the 
Project Site in the last 10 years: 
Plants: Cornflower Centaurea cyanus, bluebell Hyacinthoides non-
scripta. 
Invertebrates: Dusky brocade Apamea remissa, minor shoulder-
knot Brachylomia viminalis, broom moth Ceramica pisi, small 
phoenix Ecliptopera silaceata, dingy skipper Erynnis tages, marsh 
fritillary Euphydryas aurinia, rustic Hoplodrina blanda, shoulder-
striped wainscot Leucania comma, buff ermine Spilosoma lutea, 
blood-vein Timandra comae. 
Amphibians: Common toad Bufo bufo, palmate newt Lissotriton 
helveticus, common frog Rana temporaria.  
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – PRELIMINARY ECOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT (NON-CONFIDENTIAL) 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
19 
 
Designation 
/Feature 
Description 
Reptiles: Slow-worm Anguis fragilis, grass snake Natrix natrix, 
adder Vipera berus, common lizard Zootoca vivipara. 
Birds: Lesser redpoll Acanthis cabaret, goshawk Accipiter gentilis, 
skylark Alauda arvensis, kingfisher Alcedo atthis, tree pipit Anthus 
trivialis, little ringed plover Charadrius dubius, ringed plover 
Charadrius 
hiaticula, 
black-headed 
gull 
Chroicocephalus 
ridibundus, cuckoo Cuculus canorus, lesser spotted woodpecker 
Dendrocopos minor, yellowhammer Emberiza citronella, reed 
bunting Emberiza schoeniclus, merlin Falco columbarius, peregrine 
Falco peregrinus, hobby Falco Subbuteo, kestrel Falco tinnunculus, 
pied flycatcher Ficedula hypoleuca, linnet Linaria cannabina, 
grasshopper warbler Locustella naevia, common crossbill Loxia 
curvirostra, common scoter Melanitta nigra, red kite Milvus milvus, 
spotted flycatcher Muscicapa striata, curlew Numenius arquata, 
osprey Pandion haliaetus, house sparrow Passer domesticus, 
wood warbler Phylloscopus sibilatrix, willow tit Poecile montana, 
marsh tit Poecile palustris, dunnock Prunella modularis, bullfinch 
Pyrrhula pyrrhula, starling Sturnus vulgaris, redwing Turdus iliacus, 
song thrush Turdus philomelos, fieldfare Turdus pilaris, barn owl 
Tyto alba, lapwing Vanellus vanellus. 
Bats: Bat species Chiroptera, unidentified bat Myotis, Daubenton's 
Myotis daubentonii, Natterer's Myotis nattereri, Noctule Nyctalus 
noctule, 
pipistrelle 
species 
Pipistrellus, 
common 
pipistrelle 
Pipistrellus pipistrelles, soprano pipistrelle Pipistrellus pygmaeus, 
long-eared species Plecotus, brown long-eared Plecotus auritus. 
Mammals (excluding bats): West European hedgehog Erinaceus 
europaeus, European otter Lutra lutra, Eurasian badger Meles 
meles, polecat Mustela putorius. 
Priority Habitats and 
Species – Section 7 
List 
The full list of Section 7 Habitats and Species of Principle 
Importance in Wales has been reviewed. Those priority habitats 
present on site and priority species with potential to be on site are 
listed in Table 4-2 and Table 4-3 respectively.  
Surrounding Land 
Use 
The Project Site is located to the north of Junction 46 of the M4 
Motorway close to the village of Felindre, Swansea. 
The Project Site has agricultural fields to the east, south and north. 
Areas of woodland are located to the south, east and west of the 
Project Site. Areas of the Felindre Gas Compressor Station with 
associated roads and buildings are partially within and adjacent to 
the Project Site boundary. A waste water treatment works is located 
in the north west outside of the Project Site boundary.  
Ancient Woodland 
The following five areas have been identified: 
 An 8.1ha area of RAWS within and adjacent to the Project Site 
boundary towards the south west; 
 A 15.1 ha area of ASWU within and adjacent to the Project Site 
boundary in the south west. Part of this ASWU area covers the 
Felindre Gas Compressor Station; 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – PRELIMINARY ECOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT (NON-CONFIDENTIAL) 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
20 
 
Designation 
/Feature 
Description 
 A 0.9 ha area of PAWS adjacent to the Project Site boundary 
towards to the south west; 
 An 4.3 ha area of RAWS adjacent to the Project Site boundary; 
and, 
 A 1.6 ha ASNW adjacent to the Project Site boundary in the east. 
This area is also subject to TPOs. 
Tree Protection 
Orders (TPOs) 
Swansea County Council advised that there is a small area of 
ASNW woodland covered by TPOs which is adjacent to the Project 
Site boundary to the east.  
Ponds within 500m 
OS mapping shows 25 Ponds within 500 m of the Project Site 
boundary, three of these (Ponds 16,22 and 23) are within the 
Project Site boundary: 
 Ponds 1 – 8: Located near to a waste water treatment works 
approximately 350m west. Connected to the Site via woodland 
and grassland; 
 Ponds 9, 10 and 21: Located approximately 350m east and 
connected to the north-east tip of the road boundary via 
grassland; 
 Pond 11: Approximately 210 m west of the Project Site boundary 
and connected to the Site via grassland and scrub; 
 Ponds 12 – 14 and 18: Located approximately 450 m east and 
connected to the Site via woodland and grassland; 
 Pond 15: Located approximately 130 m north and connected to 
the Site via woodland and grassland; 
 Pond 16: Within the Project Site boundary, dry during the Phase 
1 Habitat Survey; 
 Pond 17: Located approximately 200 m west and connected to 
the Site via woodland, grassland and scrub; 
 Ponds 19a and 19b: Approximately 400 m north and connected 
to the Site via grassland; 
 Pond 20: Approximately 450 m north, connected to the Site via 
grassland. This pond was identified as dry dry during the Phase 
1 Habitat Survey; 
 Pond 22: Within the Project Site boundary; 
 Pond 23: Within the Project Site boundary and identified during 
the Phase 1 Habitat Survey (Appendix B: Target Note 28). This 
pond was not accessible due to the presence of horses; and, 
 Pond 24: Approximately 150 m north within the garden of Pen-y-
Waun Fach Cottage. The pond is connected to the Site via 
grassland and woodland. 
Previous Surveys 
The client provided AECOM with the reports of previous surveys 
undertaken by BSG Ecology and WSP/PB within the Site (Ref. 5,
Ref. 8, and Ref. 9). It was noted that the current red line boundary 
of the Site is now smaller than the red line boundary used by BSG 
Ecology and WSP/PB. However, the current red line boundary is 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – PRELIMINARY ECOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT (NON-CONFIDENTIAL) 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
21 
 
Designation 
/Feature 
Description 
within the same area as the previous red line boundary provided to 
BSG Ecology and WSP/PB and therefore the surveys undertaken 
would have captured the current Project Site boundary.  
A summary of the previous protected and priority species surveys 
are detailed below: 
 
Species 
Year Summary Results 
Company 
Invertebrates 
(moths, marsh 
fritillary (adult 
and larval 
stages), 
terrestrial 
Coleoptera, 
and aquatic 
macroinverteb
rates (in 
ponds and 
watercourses) 
2014 No protected species identified. 
A total of 384 species were 
recorded from the Survey Site. 
One species is Red Data Book. 
Two are nationally scarce and 
fourteen are Section 7species.  
BSG 
Ecology 
Great Crested 
Newts (GCN) 
Triturus 
cristatus 
2014 No GCN Identified within five 
ponds surveyed. Palmate newts 
and smooth newts Lissotriton 
vulgaris were found. 
BSG 
Ecology 
Reptiles 
2014 A peak count of 50 common 
lizard and a peak count of five 
grass snake were identified 
within the Site. 
BSG 
Ecology 
Breeding 
Birds 
(including 
barn owl) 
2014 Nine Section 42 (now Section 7) 
bird species considered likely to 
breed on Site. 
Two Schedule 1 species, red 
kite 
and 
peregrine 
falcon 
recorded. 
No 
evidence 
of 
schedule 1 species breeding 
within the Project Site. 
No evidence of barn owl within 
the Project Site. 
BSG 
Ecology 
Hazel 
Dormouse 
Muscardinus 
avellanarius 
2014 No 
dormice 
recorded 
from 
targeted surveys between June 
and November 2014. 
BSG 
Ecology 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – PRELIMINARY ECOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT (NON-CONFIDENTIAL) 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
22 
 
Designation 
/Feature 
Description 
Otter 
2014 Otter spraint identified within the 
Project Site. 
BSG 
Ecology 
Water vole 
Arvicola 
amphibius 
2014 Holes that were likely to be 
mammal 
burrows 
were 
observed. The holes have the 
right dimensions to allow use by 
water voles, but did not show 
signs of current occupation. No 
latrines, footprints or grazing 
lawns were observed during the 
survey. 
BSG 
Ecology 
Bats 
2014 At least seven species of bats 
were recorded during transect 
surveys; 
common 
pipistrelle, 
soprano pipistrelle, Myotis sp., 
long-eared 
bat., 
noctule, 
Leisler’s 
bat, 
and 
lesser 
horseshoe bat. All of these 
species and an additional three 
were 
recorded 
during 
automated bat detector surveys; 
Nathusius’ pipistrelle, serotine, 
and greater horseshoe bat. 
 
Roost 
surveys 
of 
buildings 
within the survey Site confirmed 
that at least three buildings 
contained bat droppings and 
were 
used 
as 
bat 
roosts. 
Droppings from at least three 
species of bats (pipistrelle sp., 
long-eared bat sp. and lesser 
horseshoe bat) were found. 
Thirty three trees were located 
within the survey Site that were 
considered to have potential to 
support roosting bats. 
Emergence and /or re-entry 
surveys were carried out on 
eight trees all of which would 
potentially be directly affected 
by the Project. No bats were 
BSG 
Ecology 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – PRELIMINARY ECOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT (NON-CONFIDENTIAL) 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
23 
 
Designation 
/Feature 
Description 
recorded 
emerging 
from 
or 
entering these potential tree 
roosts. 
Invasive 
Species 
2014 Japanese 
knotweed 
Fallopia 
japonica, 
Himalayan 
balsam 
Impatiens 
glandulifera, 
rhododendron 
Ericaceae 
species, 
floating 
pennywort 
Hydrocotyle ranunculoide and 
montbretia 
Crocosmia 
x 
crocosmifolia identified within 
the Project Site boundary. 
BSG 
Ecology 
Invasive 
Species 
2017 Himalayan balsam, Japanese 
knotweed, 
montbretia, 
Japanese rose Rosa rugosa 
and rhododendron. Identified 
within the Project Site boundary. 
WSP/PB 
 
4.2 
Extended Phase 1 Habitat Survey 
4.2.1 
The habitats present within the Project Site boundary and their descriptions are 
shown in Table 4-2. A plan of the Site showing the location and distribution of these 
habitats is shown in Figure 1.  
Table 4-2: Phase 1 Habitats and Descriptions 
Habitat 
Description 
Section 7 
Habitat 
Broadleaved 
Woodland – 
Semi-Natural 
There are areas of semi-natural broadleaved woodland, 
including areas of RAWS and ASWU, within the Project 
Site. There is an areas of wet woodland.  
Species include; oak species Quercus, silver birch Betula 
pendula, 
rowan 
Sorbus 
sp., 
honeysuckle 
Lonicera 
periclymenum., holly Ilex aquifolium, alder Alnus glutinosa, 
hazel Corylus avellana, goat willow Salix caprea, willow 
species Salix sp. and bramble Rubus fruticosus with a 
ground flora including broad buckler fern Dryopteris 
dilatata, hard fern Blechnum spicant, male fern Dryopteris 
filix-mas, pignut Conopodium majus, lesser celandine 
Ficaria verna and native bluebell, herb Robert Geranium 
robertianum and wild strawberry Fragaria vesca. 
Yes 
Broadleaved 
Woodland – 
Plantation 
There is one small area of broadleaved plantation 
woodland located within National Grid Compound in the 
south of the Project Site. 
Species include; silver birch, alder, willow species, and 
bramble.  
Trees with the potential to support roosting bats are 
Yes 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – PRELIMINARY ECOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT (NON-CONFIDENTIAL) 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
24 
 
Habitat 
Description 
Section 7 
Habitat 
described in Table 4-5 
Scrub – 
Dense/Continuou
s 
There are several areas of dense scrub, predominantly 
found in the south of the Project Site, but with one area in 
the north and one in the centre of the Project Site. Species 
include; bramble, willow species, gorse Ulex europaeus 
and 
bracken 
Pteridium 
aquilinum 
(Appendix 
C: 
Photographs 19 and 23 – 34). 
No 
Scrub – 
Scattered 
Several areas of scattered scrub are found within the south 
of the Project Site. Species include; gorse, silver birch, 
willow species, hawthorn Crataegus monogyna and 
bramble. 
No 
Rows of Trees – 
Broadleaved 
Rows of trees are predominantly located in between 
grassland fields and along road edges. The majority of 
these are located on top of earth banks constructed with 
stone and earth and covered in grass. 
Species include silver birch, oak species, hawthorn and 
holly, with a ground flora including native bluebell, dog 
violet Viola riviniana, herb Robert, cleavers Galium aparine 
and 
sweet 
vernal 
grass 
Anthoxanthum 
odoratum 
(Appendix C: Photographs 19 and 26) 
No 
Standalone 
Trees 
There are 13 standalone trees within the Site: 
 A pedunculate oak Quercus robur, 12 m in height with a 
diameter at breast height (DBH) of 0.7 m; 
 An oak species, 13 m in height with a DBH of 0.6 m; 
 A holly 10 m in height with a DBH of 0.3 m; 
 A holly 10 m in height with a DBH of 0.3 m; 
 An oak species 14 m in height with a DBH of 0.7 m; 
 An oak species 11 m in height with a DBH of 0.4 m; 
 An ash 8 m in height with a DBH of 0.3 m; 
 An oak species 12 m in height with a DBH of 0.5 m; 
 An oak species 9 m in height with a DBH of 0.3 m; 
 An oak species 11 m in height with a DBH of 0.5 m; 
 A pedunculate oak 12 m in height with a DBH of 1 m; 
 A pedunculate oak 12 m in height with a DBH of 1 m; 
and, 
 An oak species 9 m in height with a DBH of 0.6 m.  
 
Trees with the potential to support roosting bats are 
described in Table 4-5. 
No 
Ruderal – Tall 
Herb and Fern 
There are two areas of tall ruderal vegetation. Species 
include bracken and nettle Urtica dioica. 
No 
Semi-Improved 
Neutral 
There is semi-improved neutral grassland present on road 
and track sides both within and adjacent to the Project Site 
Yes 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – PRELIMINARY ECOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT (NON-CONFIDENTIAL) 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
25 
 
Habitat 
Description 
Section 7 
Habitat 
Grassland 
boundary. There are several semi-improved grassland 
fields within the centre of the Project Site.  
Semi-improved grassland species include; red fescue 
Festuca rubra, common vetch Vicia sativa, ribwort plantain 
Plantago 
lanceolata, 
sweet 
vernal 
grass, 
coltsfoot 
Tussilago farfara, marsh thistle Cirsium palustre, hard rush 
Juncus inflexus, compact rush Juncus conglomeratus, 
bird’s foot trefoil Lotus corniculatus, black medic Medicago 
lupulina, perennial rye grass Lolium perenne, red clover 
Trifolium 
pratense, 
common 
mouse-ear 
Cerastium 
fontanum, Yorkshire fog Holcus lanatus and common bent 
Agrostis capillaris (Appendix C: Photographs 19, 21 and 24 
– 25 ). 
Marshy 
Grassland 
There are frequent areas of marshy grassland dominated 
by soft rush Juncus effusus and purple moor grass Molinia 
caerulea both within the Project Site boundary. Marshy 
grassland areas are predominantly located towards the 
south of the Project Site.  
Yes 
Improved 
Grassland 
Areas of improved grassland are dominant throughout the 
Project Site. The majority of these are sheep and horse 
grazed. Species include; perennial rye grass, annual 
meadow grass Poa annua, sweet vernal grass and clover 
species (Appendix C: Photographs 19 – 20 and 26). 
No 
Running Water 
There are several wet ditches (watercourses) across the 
Project Site (Appendix C: Photograph 26). 
No 
Standing Water 
There are three ponds within the Project Site boundary 
(Appendix B: Target Notes 28, 40 and 44). 
Yes 
Hedgerow with 
Trees – Species 
– Rich 
There is one native species-rich hedgerow alongside the 
access road to the National Grid site. Species include oak 
species, ash Fraxinus excelsior, hazel, honeysuckle, dog 
rose Rosa canina, field maple Acer campestre, holly and 
goat willow (Appendix C: Photograph 22). 
Yes 
Hedgerow with 
Trees – Species 
– Poor 
There is one species-poor hedgerow within the Project Site 
boundary. Species include oak, ash, rowan, hawthorn, 
bramble and dog rose with a ground flora which includes 
native bluebell. 
Yes 
Intact Hedgerow 
– Species – Poor 
There are two intact species-poor hedgerows. Species 
include hawthorn, blackthorn Prunus spinosa, bramble, 
hazel, willow species, holly, rose species, oak species, and 
ash. 
Yes 
Earth Bank 
There are several grass covered raised earth banks within 
the Project Site. The earth banks comprise earth and 
stone. Some of these have scattered hawthorn and holly 
bushes with native bluebells on top of them. The earth 
banks with rows of trees on top are captured under the row 
No 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – PRELIMINARY ECOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT (NON-CONFIDENTIAL) 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
26 
 
Habitat 
Description 
Section 7 
Habitat 
of trees category. 
Buildings 
There are two buildings within the National Grid Compound 
within the south of the Project Site boundary; these 
buildings were not assessed for bats due to restricted 
access.  
Four buildings (outside of the Project Site boundary) were 
identified as having the potential to support roosting bats. 
Further detail is given in Section 4.5 (Appendix C: 
Photographs 7 – 17). 
No 
Fences 
There is frequent fencing including security and barbed 
wire fencing throughout the Project Site. The fences have 
no ecological value. 
No 
Bare Ground 
(Hard Standing) 
Areas of gravel, asphalt road and pedestrian pavements 
are located across the Project Site. These have no 
ecological value. 
No 
4.3 
Protected and Priority Species 
4.3.1 
Details of protected and priority species recorded on Project Site are shown in 
Table 4-3. A plan of the Project Site showing the location and distribution of features 
with potential for protected or priority species is shown in Figure 1. Target notes of 
protected species evidence or features that have potential to support protected 
species are shown in Figure 1 and Appendix B.  
Table 4-3: Protected and Priority Species Potential 
Species/Spe
cies Group 
Associated 
habitat 
Description 
Section 7 
Species 
Invertebrates All 
natural 
habitats 
All of the natural habitats on Project Site have the 
potential 
to 
support 
generalist 
aquatic 
and 
terrestrial invertebrates as well as some scarce 
invertebrates as previously identified in 2014 (see 
Table 4-1).  
Records of marsh fritillary were returned from the 
local records centre. 
The NVC survey undertaken by BSG Ecology in 
2014 identified devil’s bit scabious (the marsh 
fritillary larvae’s main food source) within an area 
which now lies outside of the Project Site 
boundary and there is no reference to this plant 
growing anywhere else within the Project Site 
(Ref. 8).  
Subsequent targeted surveys for marsh fritillary 
butterfly within the area where devils bit scabious 
was identified were undertaken by BSG Ecology in 
2014. BSG Ecology did not find any evidence of 
marsh fritillary butterfly (Ref. 8). 
Yes 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – PRELIMINARY ECOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT (NON-CONFIDENTIAL) 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
27 
 
Species/Spe
cies Group 
Associated 
habitat 
Description 
Section 7 
Species 
The WSP/PB updated PEA report did not find any 
evidence of devil’s bit scabious within the Project 
Site, however it was noted that the PEA was 
conducted outside of this plants flowering period of 
July to October and may have gone unrecorded. It 
stated that there may still be suitable areas within 
the Project Site in which devil’s bit scabious may 
be found (Ref. 5). 
Devil’s bit scabious typically grows in damp 
meadows and marshes and along woodland rides 
and riverbanks.  
Areas of semi-improved neutral grassland and 
marshy grassland are present within the Project 
Site. Therefore there is the potential for devil’s bit 
scabious to be present, however it is considered 
that even if this plant is now present within the 
Project Site it is unlikely to be in any great number 
and therefore it is considered unlikely that marsh 
fritillary butterfly will be present. 
Amphibians 
(including 
GCN) 
Running 
water 
and 
ponds, 
marshy 
grassland 
and 
woodland. 
These 
habitats 
are 
suitable 
for 
supporting 
generalist amphibians, including frogs, toads and 
smooth and palmate newts. 
Areas of slow running water and ponds have the 
potential to support breeding GCN.  
Areas of marshy grassland and woodland have the 
potential to support GCN using these areas to 
commute to ponds as well as providing suitable 
habitat for foraging and hibernation during the 
terrestrial phase of their life cycle. 
No GCN have been recorded previously at the 
Project Site (see Table 4-1) and no records of 
GCN were identified from the local records centre. 
Yes 
Reptiles 
Semi-
improved 
and marshy 
grassland, 
dense and 
scattered 
scrub, 
row 
of 
trees, 
earth 
banks, 
wood piles, 
gabion 
cage semi-
natural 
broadleave
Semi-improved and marshy grassland, dense and 
scattered scrub has the potential to support 
foraging reptiles (Appendix B: Target Notes 7, 12, 
14, 18, 20, 31, 32, 36 – 38) 
Row of trees on earth banks which occur near to 
woodland 
or 
semi-improved 
grassland 
may 
support foraging reptiles and the earth banks with 
stones have the potential to provide areas for 
basking as well as shelter and hibernation 
opportunities (Appendix B: Target Note 39). 
Wood piles have the potential to provide shelter, 
hibernation and basking opportunities (Appendix 
B: Target Notes 8 and 30). 
The gabion cage has the potential to provide 
shelter, and hibernation opportunities (Appendix B: 
Yes 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – PRELIMINARY ECOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT (NON-CONFIDENTIAL) 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
28 
 
Species/Spe
cies Group 
Associated 
habitat 
Description 
Section 7 
Species 
d woodland, 
running 
water 
and 
ponds. 
Target Note 19). 
Semi-natural broadleaved woodland, hedgerows 
and scrub have the potential to support foraging 
reptiles as well as providing suitable habitat for 
shelter and hibernation (Appendix B: Target Notes 
12 and 13)  
Clearings within the semi-natural broadleaved 
woodland have the potential to support basking 
reptiles. 
Running water, ponds and marshy grassland have 
the potential to provide foraging opportunities for 
grass snake.  
The surveys carried out by BSG Ecology in 2014 
identified populations of common lizard and grass 
snake within the Project Site (see Table 4-1).  
Breeding 
Birds 
Semi-
natural and 
plantation 
woodland, 
rows 
of 
trees, 
standalone 
trees, 
species 
–
rich 
and 
species 
- 
poor 
hedgerows, 
dense and 
scattered 
scrub 
and 
marshy and 
semi-
improved 
grassland. 
Semi-natural and plantation woodland, rows of 
trees, standalone trees, species –rich and species- 
poor hedgerows, dense and scattered scrub and 
grassland have the potential to support breeding 
birds. 
Redpoll, goldcrest Regulus regulus, blackcap 
Sylvia atricapilla, robin Erithacus rubecula, blue tit 
Cyanistes 
caeruleus, 
wren 
Troglodytes 
troglodytes, blackbird Turdus merula, cuckoo and 
bullfinch were heard during the Phase 1 Habitat 
Survey (Appendix B: Target Notes 2 and 5). 
Marshy and semi-improved grassland has the 
potential to support ground nesting birds, such as 
lapwing (Appendix B: Target Note 22) and snipe 
Gallinago 
gallinago. 
Records 
of 
barn 
owl, 
goshawk, red kite and peregrine were returned by 
the local records centre. The breeding bird survey 
undertaken in 2014 by BSG Ecology did not find 
any evidence of these species breeding within the 
Project Site boundary (see Table 4-1).  
However, it is possible that these species may now 
be breeding on Project Site. 
Yes 
Bats  
Semi-
natural and 
plantation 
woodland, 
rows 
of 
trees, 
standalone 
trees, 
species 
–
rich 
and 
Trees in semi-natural and plantation woodland and 
rows of trees, and standalone trees have the 
potential 
to 
support 
roosting, 
foraging 
and 
commuting bats (Appendix B: Target Notes 29, 35 
and 36). 
Species-rich and species-poor hedgerows, dense 
and scattered scrub, and running water have the 
potential to support foraging and commuting bats. 
Marshy and semi-improved grassland and ponds 
have the potential to support foraging bats. 
Yes 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – PRELIMINARY ECOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT (NON-CONFIDENTIAL) 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
29 
 
Species/Spe
cies Group 
Associated 
habitat 
Description 
Section 7 
Species 
species 
poor 
hedgerows, 
dense and 
scattered 
scrub 
and 
marshy and 
semi-
improved 
grassland, 
running 
water 
and 
ponds. 
Buildings. 
The Project Site was assessed as having High 
commuting and foraging potential (see Table 3-2). 
Eleven trees were assessed as having the 
potential to support roosting bats (see Table 4-5).  
Not all trees close to the Project Site boundary 
were assessed for their potential to support 
roosting bats. The majority of trees within the 
woodlands close to or adjacent to the Project Site 
boundary were not assessed for their potential to 
support roosting bats. However, it was noted that 
the trees within area of woodland are of a suitable 
age and size to support bat roost potential 
features. 
Four buildings (outside of the Project Site 
boundary) were assessed as having the potential 
to support roosting bats (see Table 4-5),  
 
Bat surveys undertaken by BSG Ecology in 
2014 identified the following (Ref. 9): 
Internal and External Building Inspection 
 Building 4 (not assessed during the AECOM 
PEA due to landowner access refusal) – 
Confirmed roost. Long-eared, pipistrelle and 
lesser horseshoe bat droppings identified in the 
store room; 
 Building 8 (AECOM Building 2) – Confirmed bat 
roost. Long-eared and pipistrelle bat droppings 
identified in both the first and second storey at 
the north of the building; 
 Building 10 (not assessed during the AECOM 
PEA, outside of the Project Site boundary). 
Pipistrelle bat droppings identified on the floor; 
 Buildings 1, 2, 5 and 11 (not assessed during 
the AECOM PEA, outside of the Project Site 
boundary) were assessed as having Moderate 
potential; 
 Building 7 (AECOM Building 3) was assessed 
as having Low potential; and, 
 Building 3, 6 and 9 (not assessed during the 
AECOM PEA, outside of the Project Site 
boundary) were assessed as having negligible 
potential. 
No further bat surveys were undertaken on 
buildings as BSG Ecology stated that they would 
not be affected by the development proposals. 
 
Foraging and Commuting 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – PRELIMINARY ECOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT (NON-CONFIDENTIAL) 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
30 
 
Species/Spe
cies Group 
Associated 
habitat 
Description 
Section 7 
Species 
Common and soprano pipistrelle, myotis species, 
noctule, Leisler’s and long-eared bat species were 
identified during the walked transects and static 
bat detector surveys: 
One record of lesser horseshoe bat in the south of 
the Project Site was recorded during the walked 
transect. 
In addition to the species listed above Serotine, 
Nathusius’ pipistrelle and greater horseshoe were 
identified during the static bat detector surveys.  
The most frequently occurring species across the 
Project Site were common and soprano pipistrelle. 
The majority of the bat activity was recorded along 
hedgerows and treelines within the Project Site. 
The areas identified during the static detector bat 
surveys with the highest levels of bat activity were 
located in the south of the Project Site.  
Brown Hare 
Lepus 
europaeus 
Semi-
improved 
and marshy 
grassland 
and 
woodland 
Semi-improved 
and 
marshy 
grassland 
and 
woodland habitats have the potential to support 
breeding, foraging and commuting brown hares. 
A brown hare was observed within semi-improved 
grassland 
by 
AECOM 
Ecologists 
when 
undertaking GCN surveys (Appendix B: Target 
Note 43). 
Yes 
Hazel 
Dormouse 
Semi-
natural and 
plantation 
woodland, 
rows 
of 
trees, 
dense and 
scattered 
scrub, 
species-
poor 
and 
species-rich 
hedgerows. 
Semi-natural and plantation woodland, rows of 
trees, dense and scattered scrub, species-poor 
and species-rich hedgerows have the potential to 
support breeding and foraging dormice (Appendix 
B: Target Notes 9 and 34 – 35). 
The dormouse surveys carried out by BSG 
Ecology in 2014 did not find any evidence of 
dormice (see Table 4-1).  
Yes 
European 
Hedgehog 
Semi-
natural and 
plantation 
woodland, 
species-rich 
and 
species-
poor 
hedgerows, 
dense and 
Semi-natural and plantation woodland, species-
rich and species-poor hedgerows dense and 
scattered scrub has the potential to support 
hibernating, foraging and commuting hedgehogs. 
Woodpiles 
have 
the 
potential 
to 
support 
hibernating hedgehogs. 
Marshy grassland and semi-improved grassland 
has the potential to support foraging and 
commuting hedgehogs. 
Yes 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – PRELIMINARY ECOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT (NON-CONFIDENTIAL) 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
31 
 
Species/Spe
cies Group 
Associated 
habitat 
Description 
Section 7 
Species 
scattered 
scrub, 
marshy 
grassland 
and 
semi-
improved 
grassland 
and 
woodpiles. 
Badger 
Semi-
natural and 
plantation 
woodland, 
rows 
of 
trees, 
species-rich 
and 
species-
poor 
hedgerows,  
dense and 
scattered 
scrub, 
marshy 
grassland 
and 
semi-
improved  
and 
improved 
grassland. 
o 
Polecat 
Semi-
natural and 
plantation 
woodland, 
rows 
of 
trees, 
species-rich 
and 
species-
poor 
hedgerows, 
dense and 
scattered 
scrub 
and 
semi-
improved 
and 
improved 
These habitats have the potential to support 
foraging polecats. Polecat’s food sources include 
rabbits, rats, birds and frogs which are likely to be 
present within the Project Site boundary. 
Six records of polecat were returned within 2 km of 
the Project Site from the local records centre. 
Piles of wood (Appendix B: Target Notes 8 and 
30), woodland and any areas where rabbit burrows 
are present have the potential to support breeding 
polecat. 
Yes 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – PRELIMINARY ECOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT (NON-CONFIDENTIAL) 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
32 
 
Species/Spe
cies Group 
Associated 
habitat 
Description 
Section 7 
Species 
grassland. 
Wood Piles.  
Otter 
Semi-
natural 
broad-
leaved 
woodland, 
marshy 
grassland 
and running 
water. 
Semi-natural 
broadleaved 
woodland 
which 
contains or is close to running water has the 
potential to support breeding as well as foraging 
and commuting otter. 
Running water and marshy grassland have the 
potential to support foraging and commuting otter. 
Otters are known to be in the area as spraints 
have been identified outside of the Project Site 
boundary during protected species surveys carried 
out by AECOM in 2017.  
One otter spraint was identified during the BSG 
Ecology surveys in 2014 (See Table 4-1). 
Yes 
Water Vole 
Running 
water, 
marshy 
grassland 
and 
semi-
improved 
grassland. 
Running water, marshy grassland and semi-
improved grassland provides suitable habitat for 
water vole. 
Previous surveys undertaken by BSG Ecology 
have identified mammal burrows that could be 
water vole burrows (see Table 4-1). 
Yes 
4.4 
Invasive Species Subject to Legal Controls 
4.4.1 
Invasive species subject to legal controls were identified on the Project Site at the 
time of survey and are and are shown in Table 4-4 and on Figure 1. Not all areas of 
the Site were assessed for invasive species during the Phase 1 Habitat Survey due 
to access limitations. There is the potential for invasive species to have gone 
unrecorded in these areas.  
Table 4-4: Invasive Species Subject to Legal Controls 
Invasive 
Species 
Point 
Species 
Description 
1 
Rhododendron 
5 x 6 m in size. 
2 
Japanese knotweed 
Within hedgerow 5 m long by 1 m wide and 2 m high. 
3 
Japanese knotweed 
On the edge of the road 2x1x2 m in size. 
4 
Japanese knotweed 
Along the edge of a small area of woodland. 10x1x2 
m in size (Appendix C: Photograph 18). 
5 
Rhododendron 
Within woodland. 2x2x1 m in size. 
6 
Rhododendron 
1x1x1 m in size. 
7 
Japanese knotweed 
On bank 1x1x2 m in size. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – PRELIMINARY ECOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT (NON-CONFIDENTIAL) 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
33 
 
Invasive 
Species 
Point 
Species 
Description 
8 
Japanese knotweed 
Outside of the Project Site boundary. Roots could be 
inside the Project Site boundary. 
9 
Japanese knotweed 
Occurring throughout the row of trees. 
10 
Japanese knotweed 
Located in the centre of the field which is outside of 
the Project Site boundary and had no access. Viewed 
from the road. 
11 
Japanese knotweed 
Within an area of improved grassland. 15x4m in size. 
12 
Japanese knotweed 
4x5 m in size. 
13 
Himalayan balsam 
Large extent of stands along woodland edge and 
within grassland. There are some scattered stands 
within the woodland. 
14 
Himalayan balsam 
Young plants throughout scrub/tree line. 
4.5 
Bat Roost Assessment 
4.5.1 
Features suitable for supporting roosting bats were assessed during the site visit 
and are shown in Table 4-5. The locations of potential roosts are shown on Figure 
1. Due to time and access constraints during the Phase 1 Habitat Survey, not all 
trees within the Project Site boundary, not all trees within woodland parcels in close 
proximity to the Project Site boundary and not all buildings in close proximity to the 
Project Site boundary were assessed for their potential to support roosting bats.  
Table 4-5: Features Assessed as Having Potential to Support Roosting Bats 
Feature 
Description 
Bat Roost 
Potential 
Category 
Building 1 Approximately 120 m outside of the Project Site boundary to 
the north east. This was not fully assessed due to time 
constraints of the PEA survey. This is a modern building with 
a tiled roof. There were no obvious gaps. House sparrows 
were observed using spaces in the roof. 
Low 
Building 2 Approximately 75 m outside of the Project Site boundary to 
the west. A brick built building with a tower and asbestos 
pitched roof. There are fly-in access and crevice points 
(Appendix C: Photographs 7 – 11).  
High  
BSG 
Ecology 
confirmed 
this 
as a roost in 
2014 (Ref. 9). 
Building 3 Approximately 5 m outside of the Project Site boundary to the 
west. A brick built building with a pitched asbestos roof. There 
are gaps in the mortar and brick work and behind the wooden 
facia boards (Appendix C: Photographs 12 – 15).  
Moderate 
Building 4 Approximately 10 m outside of the Project Site boundary to 
the west. A single story brick built building with gaps leading 
Moderate 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – PRELIMINARY ECOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT (NON-CONFIDENTIAL) 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
34 
 
Feature 
Description 
Bat Roost 
Potential 
Category 
to a cavity wall. Gaps are present on the east and south face 
of this building (Appendix C: Photographs 16 – 17). 
Tree 1 
Within the Project Site boundary. An oak species, 14 m in 
height with a DBH of 0.7 m. This tree has south facing split at 
6 m (Appendix C: Photograph 1). 
Low 
Tree 2 
Within the Project Site boundary. An oak species, 12 m in 
height with a DBH of 0.6 m. This tree had dense ivy cover 
which could be obscuring potential bat features. The ivy itself 
did not appear to be a suitable feature for use by bats. 
Low 
Tree 3 
Within the Project Site boundary. An oak species, 17 m in 
height with a DBH of 1.1 m. There is a knothole at 3 m facing 
north west and a crack in the limb at 5 m facing west. 
Moderate 
Tree 4 
Approximately 55 m outside of the Project Site boundary to 
the south east. An oak species, 10 m in height with a DBH of 
0.7 m. There is a hollow that extends for approximately 30 cm 
which could be used by a roost for a small number of bats. 
Low 
Tree 5 
Approximately 20 m outside of the Project Site boundary to 
the south. An oak species, 14 m in height with a DBH of 0.8 
m. A hollow at 0.5 m within the base of the tree (Appendix C: 
Photograph 2). 
Low 
Tree 6 
Within the Project Site boundary. A pedunculate oak, 12 m in 
height with a DBH of 0.7 m. There is a spilt in the stem facing 
south towards the road and a woodpecker hole (Appendix C: 
Photograph 3). 
Moderate 
Tree 7 
Within the Project Site boundary. A pedunculate oak, 8 m in 
height with a DBH of 1 m. There are splits in the stem facing 
west (Appendix C: Photograph 4). 
Low 
Tree 8 
Within the Project Site boundary. An oak species, 12 m in 
height with a DBH of 0.6 m. There is a trunk cavity at 1.5 m, 
viewed from the road. The tree is located within an area of no 
access and the other side could not be viewed (Appendix C: 
Photograph 5). 
Moderate  
Tree 9 
Within the Project Site boundary. An oak species 8 m in height 
with a DBH of 0.5 m. There are thick stems of ivy on the east 
face (Appendix C: Photograph 6). 
Moderate 
Tree 10 
Approximately 25 m outside of the Project Site boundary to 
the east. A rowan 12 m in height with a DBH of 0.4 m. There 
is cavity approximately 1m from the ground which appears to 
extend upwards. There is currently an active wasp nest in the 
cavity which may deter bats from using it. 
Moderate 
Tree 11 
Within the Project Site boundary. A multi-stem oak species 14 
m in height with a DBH of 0.6 m. There is some loose bark 
Low 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – PRELIMINARY ECOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT (NON-CONFIDENTIAL) 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
35 
 
Feature 
Description 
Bat Roost 
Potential 
Category 
and a gap in the base.  
 
5. 
Ecological Constraints and Indicative Potential Impacts 
5.1.1 
The constraints and potential impacts listed here do not include consideration of 
further surveys which have been recommended in Section 6. The results of further 
surveys may change the likely potential impacts.  
5.1.2 
The indicative potential impacts of the Project on habitats and protected species 
are outlined below; potential impacts will be assessed fully during the Ecological 
Impact Assessment (EcIA).  
5.1.3 
The development proposals are for proposed 299 MW Open Cycle Gas Turbine 
power station. The development will require the removal of vegetated habitats 
including hedgerows, semi-natural broadleaved woodland, rows of trees, scrub, 
hardstanding, marshy grassland, improved grassland, and trees. 
5.2 
Indicative Potential Impacts 
5.2.1 
Without mitigation, during construction and operation the following indicative 
potential impacts are anticipated:  
 
Habitat loss, severance and fragmentation;  
 
Loss and/or disturbance of breeding and resting sites of protected species; 
 
Disturbance, injury or killing of protected and priority species during site 
clearance and construction works; 
 
Disturbance, injury or killing of protected and priority species during operation 
where protected species are retained within the Project Site;  
 
Disturbance from noise and vibration (if piling is required); 
 
Pollution to land and/or water as a result of run off of sediments, chemicals, fuel 
or oil;  
 
Degradation of habitats and designated site habitats due to increases in 
nutrients from operational emissions;  
 
Spread of invasive species; and, 
 
External lighting disturbance. 
.   
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – PRELIMINARY ECOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT (NON-CONFIDENTIAL) 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
36 
 
6. 
Further Surveys and Recommendations 
6.1 
Further Surveys 
6.1.1 
Further surveys for protected species are recommended so that the baseline data 
can be used to inform the EcIA. Surveys will be programmed and completed with 
sufficient time ahead of DCO application submission and the results can be used to 
inform the Project design. Certain species can only be surveyed for at certain times 
of year and without consideration this has potential to cause project delays. 
6.1.2 
Recommendations for further surveys are based on the current information 
available and will be subject to consultation with relevant consultees and local 
authority officers. Further surveys are recommended for the following species:  
a) Hedgerows 
6.1.3 
Hedgerows proposed to be removed as part of the development should be 
assessed by a suitably qualified ecologist to determine if they are classified as an 
Important hedgerow under the Hedgerow Regulations, 1997 (Ref. 1). The optimal 
times for hedgerow surveys are April – early-June, whilst the woodland ground flora 
is still present.  
b) Tree Preservation Orders 
6.1.4 
No TPOs are to be removed as part of the Project. However the TPOs may be 
impacted by the works. TPO trees that may be impacted by the Project should be 
identified and the appropriate Root Protection Zones should be set up during 
construction. 
c) Invertebrates 
6.1.5 
As the habitats on the Project Site have not changed significantly since the 
invertebrate survey conducted in 2014 it is recommended that the consultation is 
undertaken with Natural Resources Wales (NRW) and the local planning authority 
to discuss the requirement for additional invertebrate surveys.  
6.1.6 
Should an update to the 2014 survey data be required by the NRW and the local 
planning 
authority 
it 
should 
be 
undertaken 
by 
a 
suitably 
qualified 
ecologist/entomologist to determine if the habitats proposed to be removed as part 
of the development support any protected and/or priority invertebrate species, 
including the marsh fritillary butterfly. 
d) Great Crested Newts 
6.1.7 
It is recommended that surveys for great crested newts are undertaken on suitable 
ponds within the Project Site boundary, and within 500 m of the Project Site 
boundary to determine if they are present in the area.  
e) Reptiles 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – PRELIMINARY ECOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT (NON-CONFIDENTIAL) 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
37 
 
6.1.8 
It is recommended that presence/absence surveys for reptiles should be 
undertaken in areas of suitable habitat using artificial refugia.  
6.1.9 
Grass snake and common lizard have previously been identified on Project Site 
(see Table 4-1).  
f) Breeding Birds 
6.1.10 It is recommended that breeding bird surveys should be undertaken within suitable 
areas of habitat within the Site to assess presence, population and activity of birds. 
Particular focus will be paid to protected and/or priority species breeding in areas of 
suitable habitat and will include ground nesting birds, in particular lapwing, in areas 
of marshy and semi-improved grassland.  
g) Bats 
6.1.11 The Bat Survey Guidelines (Ref. 2) requires surveys to consider potential roosts 
(trees, buildings and structures) within the Zone of Influence (ZoI) of a project. For 
the Generating Equipment Site in consideration of construction noise and vibration, 
and operational lighting to COMAH regulations the ZoI has been set to a 50m 
radius from the Project Site boundary, and for the rest of the Site set to potential 
roosts within and adjacent to the Project Site boundary.  
Tree Assessments 
6.1.12 If broadleaved semi-natural woodland, rows of trees and /or individual trees within 
the ZoI and Project Site are to be removed or illuminated by external lighting a 
preliminary ground level roost assessment should be undertaken on all trees within 
the area which will be affected.  
Building and Structure Assessments 
6.1.13 Buildings and/or structures within the vicinity of the Project Site should be assessed 
for their potential to support summer roosting and winter hibernating bats. 
Bat Roost Survey 
Trees 
6.1.14 Any trees to be removed or disturbed (disturbance can include lighting, crown 
lifting, limb removal, noise and vibration) which have been assessed as having low 
potential to support roosting bats will not be subject to further surveys, but 
precautionary measures may be appropriate during felling or pruning activities. 
6.1.15 Any trees to be removed or disturbed which have been assessed as having 
moderate or high potential to support roosting bats may require a further Potential 
Roost 
Feature 
(PRF) 
climbed 
inspection 
survey 
and/or 
will 
require 
presence/absence surveys to be undertaken. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – PRELIMINARY ECOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT (NON-CONFIDENTIAL) 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
38 
 
6.1.16 To establish roost presence or likely absence up to three manual surveys 
(dusk/dawn) are to be completed following the Bat Survey Guidelines (Collins, 
2016). The climbed inspection can count towards one of the three manual surveys. 
Buildings and Structures 
6.1.17 Any buildings or structures assessed as having potential to support roosting bats 
may require an internal inspection, winter hibernations survey, and/or will require 
presence/absence surveys to be undertaken if they are to be disturbed as part of 
the Project (disturbance can include lighting, renovation works, noise and 
vibration). 
6.1.18 To establish roost presence or likely absence up to three manual surveys 
(dusk/dawn) are to be completed following the Bat Survey Guidelines (Ref. 2). 
6.1.19 At least three surveys are needed to support a European Protected Species 
License application if a roost is to be destroyed or disturbed.  
Activity Survey 
6.1.20 To ascertain the presence and/or level of bat activity on the Project Site, activity 
surveys (including walked transects and automated/static activity surveys) are 
recommended to be completed following the Bat Survey Guidelines (Ref. 2).  
Transect Surveys 
6.1.21 This comprises two site visits a month, for each month between April and October 
inclusive for walked transects. Transects will incorporate all areas of suitable 
habitat. Particular focus will be on commuting bats using the hedgerows and tree 
lines. The transect route will depend on suitable and safe access. Due to the size of 
the Project Site it is anticipated that the Project Site will be covered by two walked 
transect routes.  
Automated/Static Activity Surveys 
6.1.22 This comprises three remote detector locations per transect with data to be 
collected on five consecutive nights per month, for each month between April and 
October inclusive.  The devices will be placed out and retrieved after each session.  
Recordings are then analysed in the office.   
h) Hazel Dormouse 
6.1.23 Suitable habitat for supporting dormice was recorded within woodland, hedgerows 
and dense scrub. No records of dormice were returned from the local records 
centre. Surveys for dormice were undertaken by BSG Ecology in 2014 (Ref. 9) and 
no evidence of dormice was found. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – PRELIMINARY ECOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT (NON-CONFIDENTIAL) 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
39 
 
6.1.24 The habitats on-site with the potential to support dormice are not considered to 
have changed since 2014, Therefore AECOM consider that no further surveys for 
dormice are necessary. However, a consultation with NRW and the local planning 
authority will be required to determine if this approach is appropriate. There may be 
a requirement to undertake further surveys for dormice in areas of suitable habitat 
on-site.  
6.1.25 Should a dormouse survey need to be completed to ascertain presence or likely 
absence at the Project Site, the survey will follow the guidelines set out in the 
Dormouse Conservation Handbook Second Edition (Ref. 10).  
6.1.26 Nest tubes will be positioned within areas of scrub woodland and along hedgerows 
suitable to support dormouse. The tubes will be checked monthly using a surveyor 
possessing a NRW dormouse handling licence for the presence of dormice and 
also for signs of recently constructed dormouse nests.  
6.1.27 Based on survey methodologies provided in Ref. 10, it is recommended that 
surveys commence in May and are undertaken on a monthly basis until September. 
As shown in Table 6-1 below, each survey month is given an Index of Probability 
based on the likelihood of dormouse being present and active in each month. A 
minimum score of 20 is required to assume absence from the Site.  
Table 6-1: Index of probability of finding dormice present in nest tubes in any one month 
Month 
Index of Probability (based on 50 tubes) 
April 
1 
May 
4 
June 
2 
July 
2 
August 
5 
September 
7 
October 
2 
November 
2 
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – PRELIMINARY ECOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT (NON-CONFIDENTIAL) 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
40 
 
6.1.28 If dormice are confirmed present within the woodland on site then an application for 
a European Protected Species License (EPSL) will need to be made from NRW to 
allow works to be undertaken that would otherwise be in breach of legislation. The 
EPSL will contain a Method Statement describing how the works will proceed (likely 
to include timing of works, working methods and hand searching by a licensed 
ecologist) and mitigation measures. If an EPSL is required then the survey must 
include a survey in May to inform a population size class assessment, due to the 
timing of this PEA this would need to be undertaken in May 2018.  
i) Badger 
j) Otter and Water Vole 
6.1.33 An otter and water vole survey should be undertaken along watercourses and 
ditches at least 100 m from the Project Site boundary (where access allows) to 
ascertain presence and distribution. 
k) Invasive Non-Native Plant Species  
6.1.34 Invasive non-native plant species were identified during the Phase 1 Habitat 
Survey. A survey for invasive non-native species should be undertaken in areas 
that could not be accessed during the Phase 1 Habitat Survey. 
6.2 
Recommendations for Further Work 
a) Habitat Regulations Assessment – Screening 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – PRELIMINARY ECOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT (NON-CONFIDENTIAL) 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
41 
 
6.2.1 
A search should be undertaken for any Natura 2000 sites situated within the 10 km 
study area. A Habitat Regulations Assessment (HRA) screening assessment should 
be undertaken to ascertain if the development proposals would have a Likely 
Significant Effects (LSE) on any Natura 2000 sites alone or in-combination with 
other projects, and therefore identifying whether an Appropriate Assessment (AA) is 
required. Consultation with NRW is recommended at early stages to discuss the 
proposals and suitable mitigation measures should these be required.  
6.2.2 
A HRA screening assessment was undertaken in 2015 by Parsons Brinckerhoff and 
concluded no LSE. It is recommended that the report is reviewed and, if deemed 
appropriate, consultation undertaken with NRW to ascertain whether the report can 
be used to support the DCO application. However, a new in-combination 
assessment will be required as there is a likelihood that new projects have been 
planned or built since the 2015 report was written.  
6.3 
Recommendations for Consultation 
6.3.1 
Development plans are likely to require the removal of SINC habitats and TPO 
trees, and may impact upon a number of protected and/or priority species, and 
designated sites. The following is a list of bodies that should be consulted:  
 
CCS Ecologist;  
 
CCS Officer;  
 
Natural Resources Wales; and,  
 
Local wildlife groups.  
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – PRELIMINARY ECOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT (NON-CONFIDENTIAL) 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
42 
 
6.4 
Recommendations for Mitigation and Enhancement 
6.4.1 
A detailed list of recommendations has not been completed. Further 
recommendations will be made as a result of the further surveys and as part of the 
EcIA. 
6.4.2 
The mitigation hierarchy should be considered and implemented when designing a 
new development.  
a) Mitigation Hierarchy 
1. Enhance positive impacts and opportunities; 
2. Avoidance – Alternative site or technology, or timing to eliminate impact; 
3. Minimise – Actions during design construction and operation to minimise or 
eliminate impacts; and 
4. Compensation – Used as last resort to offset impacts. 
b) Habitat Loss, Severance and Fragmentation 
6.4.3 
Avoid removal of habitats where possible. The following are of particular 
importance as they are listed as priority habitats under the Section 7 of the 
Environment (Wales) Act 2016. The Act places a duty on public authorities to ‘seek 
to maintain and enhance biodiversity’ of types of habitat included in on the Section 
7 list, and encourage others to take such steps:  
 
Woodland; 
 
Semi-improved grassland; 
 
Marshy grassland; 
 
Standing water; and,  
 
Hedgerows. 
 
c) Loss and/or Disturbance of Breeding and Resting sites of Protected Species 
6.4.4 
Further surveys will confirm the presence of any breeding or resting sites. 
Disturbance, destruction, or obstruction of breeding or resting sites for European 
Protected Species (EPS) and certain nationally protected species, such as badger, 
will require a licence from NRW. Compensatory habitat/sites, mitigation, 
supervision of works and post construction monitoring would likely be required.  
d) Disturbance, Injury and Killing during Construction 
 
To reduce the risk of killing and injury to individual reptiles when vegetation is 
cleared it is recommended that a programme of translocation and mitigation 
based on a high population is undertaken prior to any site clearance. 
 
Removal or maintenance of habitats that have the potential to support breeding 
birds should take place outside of the breeding bird season (removal between 
the 1st September and end of February). There is a potential for a clash 
between the removal of vegetation to avoid impacts on birds and impacts on 
reptiles. This will need to be managed and planned once timings are known. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – PRELIMINARY ECOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT (NON-CONFIDENTIAL) 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
43 
 
The provision of bird boxes, such as swift boxes, typical garden bird boxes, 
sparrow terraces and barn owl boxes will provide supplementary nesting sites. 
 
Any new lighting design should avoid lighting of habitats with the potential to 
support wildlife (such as vegetated habitats or buildings) and/or adjacent 
habitats. Suggestions for mitigating external lighting and achieving the lighting 
recommendations above are outlined in the best practice guidance by the Bat 
Conservation Trust (Ref. 11 and Ref. 12) and are applicable to several other 
nocturnal species.  
 
A vehicle traffic assessment should be completed to understand the likely 
impacts on habitats and species. 
 
A noise and vibration assessment as a result of piling should be completed to 
understand the likely impacts on species. 
 
Excavations, if left unfilled overnight, should be covered to avoid animals 
becoming trapped or excavations fitted with a scaffolding board ramp to allow 
any trapped animals to exit. 
 
e) Pollution to Land and/or Water  
 
Appropriate measures should be in place to: control pollution and disturbance 
during construction and adhere to applicable published guidelines. These 
measures should be detailed and implemented via a Construction Management 
Plan (CMP) and appropriate Toolbox Talks. 
 
f) Disturbance during Operation including Litter and Predation by Pets 
 
Areas set aside for wildlife (for example reptile receptor areas, woodland, 
diverse grassland planting) should be protected for the lifetime of the Project 
Site and should have management plans in place which are followed to protect 
and maintain the areas. For example, without active management through 
successional change grassland will turn to dense scrub which would make an 
area less suitable for reptiles. 
 
A Habitat Management Plan should be created for operation of the Project Site.  
 
g) Spread of Invasive Species 
 
Invasive plants should be treated and removed from the Project Site as part of 
the Project. The removal of the plants from the Project Site will be of benefit to 
the biodiversity within the Project Site and the local area. 
 
Prevent the tracking of vehicles over or otherwise disturbing areas of invasive 
plant growth or areas of soil contaminated with the remains (roots, seeds, and 
rhizomes). 
 
Have an appropriate management plan in place during construction and 
operation to help prevent/limit any re-growth or re-introduction of invasive 
species that could be spread by works or invasive grounds maintenance 
activities, such as flailing and use of tractors or frequent trampling by people.  
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – PRELIMINARY ECOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT (NON-CONFIDENTIAL) 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
44 
 
h) Biodiversity Enhancements 
6.4.5 
The National Planning Policy Framework (March, 2012) and the Environment 
(Wales) Act 2016, requires that developments enhance biodiversity, as well as just 
mitigating impacts.  
6.4.6 
A detailed list of recommendations has not been completed. Further 
recommendations can be made as a result of the further surveys and at EcIA stage.  
6.4.7 
Suggested potential enhancement measures for the Project Site are provided 
below.  
 
Implement a sympathetic management regime for the vegetation within the 
Project Site to increase the conservation value and biodiversity of the Project 
Site;  
 
Use locally native species within the planting and landscaping deign, and 
species that are of a benefit to invertebrates; and, 
 
Include the provision of bird nesting features within the landscaping design. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – PRELIMINARY ECOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT (NON-CONFIDENTIAL) 
 
Prepared for:  Home and Communities Agency    
 
AECOM 
45 
 
7. 
References 
Ref. 1  
Defra (2007). Hedgerow Survey Handbook. A standard procedure for local 
surveys in the UK. Defra. London 
Ref. 2 
Collins, J. (ed.) (2016) Bat Surveys for Professional Ecologists: Good Practice 
Guidelines (3rd edn). The Bat Conservation Trust, London 
Ref. 3 
CIEEM (2012) Guidelines for Preliminary Ecological Appraisal. Chartered 
Institute of Ecology and Environmental Management 
Ref. 4 
CIEEM (2013) Professional Code of Conduct. Chartered Institute of Ecology 
and Environmental Management (CIEEM) June 2013 
Ref. 5 
WSP/Parsons Brinckerhoff (2017). Abergelli Power Update Preliminary 
Ecological Appraisal. Cardiff 
Ref. 6 
Joint Nature Conservation Committee (2010 Ed.). Handbook for Phase 1 
Habitat Survey – A Technique for Environmental Audit. JNCC. Peterborough 
Ref. 7 
Mitchell-Jones A.J. (2004) Bat Workers Manual (3rd edition). JNCC 
Ref. 8  
Parsons Brinckerhoff (2015b) Abergelli Power Project Environmental 
Statement (Volume 1) Appendix Volume B: BSG Ecology Abergelli Power 
Project Invertebrate Survey Report  
Ref. 9 
Parsons Brinckerhoff. (2015a) Abergelli Power Project Environmental 
Statement (Volume 1) Appendix Volume A: Abergelli Power Project Outline 
Construction Environmental Management Plan.  
Ref. 10 
Bright, P., Morris, P. & Mitchell-Jones, T. (2006). The dormouse conservation 
handbook. (2nd edition) Peterborough, English Nature 
Ref. 11 
Bat Conservation Trust (2009). Bats and Lighting in the UK. Bat Conservation 
Trust, 
London 
http://www.bats.org.uk/data/files/bats_and_lighting_in_the_uk__final_version_
version_3_may_09.pdf 
Ref. 12 
Gunnell, K., Murphy, B. and Wiiliams, C. (2013). Designing for Biodiversity: A 
technical guide for new and existing buildings. London 
 
 
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – PRELIMINARY ECOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT (NON-CONFIDENTIAL) 
 
Prepared for:  Home and Communities Agency    
 
AECOM 
46 
 
8. 
Appendices 
Figure 1: Phase 1 Habitat Map 
 
 
!
!
!
! !
!
!
! ! !
! ! ! !
!
D D D D D D
D
D
!
! !
! ! !
! !
!
!
!
|||||||||
||||||
||||||||||
!
!
! !
VIVIVI
VIVI
! !
! !
!
!
!
! !! ! ! !
!
! !
!
!
! ! !
! ! !
!
!
!
! ! ! !
! !
!
! !
!
!
!
! !
! ! ! ! ! ! !
!
! ! ! !! ! !
! !
||||||||||
! ! ! !
! ! ! ! !
|||
|
|
|
|||
||
! ! !
! ! ! !
! ! ! !
!
! ! !
!
!
!
! ! !
!
!
! ! ! ! ! ! !
! ! ! ! ! ! !
!
! ! ! ! ! !
! ! !
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
|
||||
|
||||
||||||
||
|
|
|
|
|||
|
|
|||
|||||||||||
|
|||
|
|||
|
||
|
|||
|||||||
|||||||
|||||
||
|||
|||
|
|||||
||
||
|||||||
|||
|||||||
|
|
||||||||||
||||
||
|||||
||||||
||||||||
|||
|||||||
||||
|
||
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
||
|
|||
|
|
||||||||||||||||
|||||||||||||||||||||
||||||||||
||||||
||||
|
|
|||
|||
|
|
||
|
|||
|
|
|||
|||||||
||
||||||||||
|
||||
||||||||||||||||||
||
|||||
||
||||
|||
|
||
|
|
|
|||||||||
||||
|
||||||||||
|||||||||
|
|
||||||
|
||
||||||
|||
|||||||||
|||||||||
|
||
||
|
||||||||||||
|
|||||
|||
||
|
||
|
|
|
|
||
|
|
||||||||
||
||
|
|
|
!
!
!
!
!
||||
||
||||
|
|
|
||
|
|||
|
|||||||||||||
|
||||
|
|
|
|||||
||
|
|
|||||||||||||
|
||||||||||
|
|
|
|
||||||
|||||||
|
|
|||
||||||||
|||||
|
|||||||||||
|||||||
||||
||||
||||||||||
||||||||
||||||||||||
|||||||
|||||||||||
|||||||||||||
|
|||
||||
||||||||||
|||
|||||||
||
||||||||
|||||||||||
||
|
|
|
|
|
||
|
|
||
||
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
||
|
|
||
||| |
||
|
||
||
||
||
|
|
|||||||
|
||||||||||||||
||||||||
|
||
|||||||||||
||
|||||
|
|
||||||||||||
|
||||
||
!
! ! !
!
!
! ! !
! !
!
||||||||||||||||||||||||||
|
|||
|||||
|
||
|
|
|
|
|
|
||
|
|
|||||||||||||||||||||||||||
|||||||||||
|||||||||
||||
|
||
|
|
|
|
|
|||||||||
|
|
|
||
|||
||
|||
|
|
||||
|||||||
|||||
|||||
|||
|
|
|||||||||||||
||||||||||||
||
||||||||||||||||||
|||
|||||||
||||||
||
|||
||
||||||
|
|
||
||
||
|
|
|
||||
|
|
||||||
|
|
||
|
|
|
||
|
|
||||
|
||
|
|
|
|
||||||||
||||||||
|
|
|||
|
|
|
|
|||
|
|
||||
||||
|||
||||||||||||
|
|
|
||||||||||||||||||
|
|||
|||
|||||||||||||||||||||
||||
|
|
||||
|||
|
|||
|
||
|
|
|
|
|
|||
|||
|
||
||||||
||
||||||||
||||
! ! ! ! ! ! ! !
|
|
||
|
||||
|
|
|
||||
|||
|||
||||||||
||||
|||||
|
||||||||
|
|
|
||||||
||||
|
||||||||||
|
||||||||
|||||
||||
||||
|||||||||||||||||||||
|||||||||||||||||
|||
|
|||||||||||
||||||||||
||
||
||||||
!
!
!
!
! !
! !
!
!
|||||
|||
|||||||||||
||
|||||||
||||
||
|
|
|
|
||
|||||
||||||||||||||||||||||||
! !
!
! ! ! ! !
!
!
!
|||||||||
Filename: P:\UKCDF1-IE\Projects\Environmental\Jobs - Potential\2017 Q1\Abergelli Power Station\010 GIS\02_Maps\EC - Ecology\F1_Phase1Habitats_v6_WithoutPointFeatures.mxd
This drawing has been prepared for the use of AECOM's client. It may not be used, modified, reproduced or relied upon by third parties, except as agreed by AECOM or as required by law. AECOM accepts no responsibility, and denies any liability whatsoever, to any party that uses or relies on this drawing without AECOM's express written consent. Do not scale this document. All measurements must be obtained from the stated dimensions.
AECOM Internal Project No:
Drawing Title:
Drawing No:
60542910
PHASE 1 HABITAT MAP
005
Scale at A3: 1:8,000
FIGURE 1
100
0
100
200
300
400
500 m
±
Rev:
Project Title:
Client:
LEGEND
ABERGELLI POWER
STATION
AECOM Limited
1 Callaghan Square
Cardiff, CF10 5BT
+44 (0)29 2067 4600 tel
www.aecom.com
ABERGELLI POWER 
LTD.
Copyright:
© Crown copyright and database rights
 [2017] Ordnance Survey 0100031673
© Local Government Information House 
Limited copyright and database rights
 [2017] 0100031673
Drawn:
GM
Chk'd:
CC
Date:
App'd:
CA
29/11/17
Project Site Boundary
Phase 1 Habitat Linear Features
D D
Scrub - Scattered
! !
Row of trees - broadleaved
Running Water
Intact Hedge - Species-Poor
Defunct Hedge - Species-Poor
VIVIVI
Hedge with Trees - Native Species-Rich
|||||| Hedge with Trees - Species-Poor
|||||| Fence
! ! ! Earth Bank
Phase 1 Habitat Areas
Broadleaved woodland - semi-natural
Broadleaved woodland - plantation
Dense/Continuous scrub
D D D D
D D D DScattered scrub
SI
SI
Semi-improved - neutral grassland
I
I
I
I
I
I Improved grassland
Marsh/marshy grassland
Tall ruderal - herb and fern
Dry heath/acid grassland mosaic
Buildings
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
Bare ground
Hard standing
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – PRELIMINARY ECOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT (NON-CONFIDENTIAL) 
 
Prepared for:  Home and Communities Agency    
 
AECOM 
47 
 
Figure 2: Designated Sites 
 
 
Rhos Fawr
Waun Garn Wen
Plant Lasau
Clifaen
Llety-Morfil
Cefn Forest Steam
Lower Lliw Reservoir
Rhyd-Y-Pandy Valley and Grasslands
Felindre Grasslands
Middle Lliw
Middle Llan
NANT Y CRIMP
Filename: P:\UKCDF1-IE\Projects\Environmental\Jobs - Potential\2017 Q1\Abergelli Power Station\010 GIS\02_Maps\EC - Ecology\F2_Designations_v1.mxd
This drawing has been prepared for the use of AECOM's client. It may not be used, modified, reproduced or relied upon by third parties, except as agreed by AECOM or as required by law. AECOM accepts no responsibility, and denies any liability whatsoever, to any party that uses or relies on this drawing without AECOM's express written consent. Do not scale this document. All measurements must be obtained from the stated dimensions.
AECOM Internal Project No:
Drawing Title:
Drawing No:
60542910
KNOWN DESIGNATED 
SITES, AWI AND TPO
001
Scale at A3: 1:24,000
FIGURE 2
200
0
200
400
600
800
1,000 m
±
Rev:
Project Title:
Client:
LEGEND
ABERGELLI POWER
STATION
AECOM Limited
1 Callaghan Square
Cardiff, CF10 5BT
+44 (0)29 2067 4600 tel
www.aecom.com
STAG ENERGY
Copyright:
© Crown copyright and database rights
 [2017] Ordnance Survey 0100031673
© Local Government Information House 
Limited copyright and database rights
 [2017] 0100031673
Drawn:
GM
Chk'd:
CC
Date:
App'd:
CA
29/11/17
Site Boundary
2km Study Area
Site of Special Scientific Interest
Tree Preservation Order (TPO)
Ancient Woodland (AWI)
SINCs
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – PRELIMINARY ECOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT (NON-CONFIDENTIAL) 
 
Prepared for:  Home and Communities Agency    
 
AECOM 
48 
 
Appendix A  Wildlife Legislation and Local Planning Policy 
8.2 
Legislation – Habitats 
8.2.1 
A variety of sites are designated in the UK, under Conventions, Directives and 
Regulations for their nature conservation importance and interest. The general aim 
of these designations is to conserve and protect ecological resources, as well as 
raising awareness and understanding. Other non-statutory sites are afforded some 
protection through local plans. The following outlines the most common statutory 
and non-statutory designations:  
Designation  
Brief Description 
Special Areas of 
Conservation 
(SAC) 
SACs are sites selected to conserve the natural habitat types and 
species of wild flora and fauna listed in the Annexes of the Habitats 
Directive (further information regarding the Habitats Directive is set out 
in more detail in Table 8.3 below).  They are the best areas to 
represent the range and variety of habitats and species within the 
European Union (EU).   
Special Protection 
Area (SPA) 
SPAs are strictly protected sites for the most important habitats for rare 
and migratory birds within the EU classified in accordance with Article 
4 of the Birds Directive information regarding the Birds Directive is set 
out in more detail in Table 8.3 below).   
Ramsar Sites 
Ramsar Sites are wetlands of international importance. Ramsar Sites 
are protected, through the planning system, under the Wildlife and 
Countryside Act 1981 (as amended), and the Countryside and Rights 
of Way Act 2000 through their notification as SSSIs and through other 
regulatory systems addressing water, soil and air quality. 
National Nature 
Reserve (NNR) 
NNRs are nationally important areas of wildlife habitat and geological 
formations in Britain.  NNRs are designated and protected under the 
National Parks and Access to the Countryside Act 1949 and the 
Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981 (as amended). They receive 
additional protection under the Countryside and Rights of Way Act 
2000.  They are managed for the benefit of nature conservation. 
Site of Special 
Scientific Interest 
(SSSI) 
A SSSI is a site of at least national importance for nature conservation 
designated under the Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981 (as amended) 
due to its special interest in terms of flora, fauna or geological or 
physiographical features.  Protection afforded to SSSI’s was 
strengthened by the Countryside and Rights of Way Act 2000.  It 
should be noted that under the Countryside and Rights of Way Act 
2000 owners of SSSIs must give Natural Resources Wales (NRW) 
written notice before they begin any of the operations listed in the 
notification as likely to damage the special interest features, or if they 
allow others to carry out these activities.  None of the listed operations 
can be carried out without NRW’s consent. 
County Wildlife 
Site (Local site) 
A County Wildlife Site is a non-statutory site designated by a local 
authority as being of local nature conservation value.  
Ancient Woodland Ancient Woodland is a term applied to woodlands which have existed 
from at least Medieval times to the present without ever having been 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – PRELIMINARY ECOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT (NON-CONFIDENTIAL) 
 
Prepared for:  Home and Communities Agency    
 
AECOM 
49 
 
Designation  
Brief Description 
Inventory 
cleared for uses other than wood or timber production.  A convenient 
date used to separate ancient and secondary woodland is about the 
year 1600. In special circumstances semi-natural woods of post-1600 
but pre-1900 origin are also included.  
Wildlife Trust 
Reserve 
These non-statutory sites are managed by the Wildlife Trusts with the 
purpose of conserving wildlife. 
8.3 
Legislation – Protected Species 
8.3.1 
In addition to habitats, a number of species have been afforded protection through 
international/European and national law. Other species are considered to contribute 
to our ‘quality of life’. Although these species do not benefit from legal protection, 
they can be material considerations in the planning process. The table below 
outlines the key forms of protection afforded to species. The Countryside and 
Rights of Way Act, the Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981 (as amended), The 
Protection of Badgers Act 1992 and the Conservation of Habitats and Species 
Regulations 2017 are the main legislative framework for protection of wild animals 
in the UK. Schedule 1 of the Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981 (as amended) 
covers birds, Schedule 5 covers other animals and Schedule 8 covers plants. 
8.3.2 
Species including bats, otters and great crested newts are listed under Schedule 2 
of the Conservation of Habitats and Species Regulations 2017. Badgers are 
protected under their own Act: The Protection of Badgers Act 1992. Activities 
affecting protected species must usually be conducted under licence obtained from 
the appropriate body (in Wales, this is Natural Resources Wales). 
8.3.1 
Developers must be able to show that all reasonable measures have been taken to 
ensure that protected species are not subject to disturbance.  The habitats which 
regularly support the Conservation of Habitats and Species Regulations 
2017Schedule 2 species, the Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981 (as amended) 
Schedule 1 species and some Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981 (as amended) 
Schedule 5 species are also protected from disturbance and destruction. Again, all 
reasonable precautions should be taken to ensure that this does not happen. The 
Countryside and Rights of Way Act 2000 has strengthened enforcement powers 
and introduced a new offence of “reckless disturbance” that applies to both 
protected sites and species. Error! Reference source not found. below provides 
a summary of the relevant legislation with regards to protected and priority species.  
Legislation 
Brief Description 
The Habitats Directive 
The Habitats Directive 1992 (Directive 92/43/EEC sets out the 
legal framework requiring EU member states to protect habitat 
sites supporting vulnerable and protected species, as listed 
within the Directive. The need for an assessment of impacts on 
Natura 2000 sites (the collective name for European designated 
sites, including SPAs and SACs) is set out within Article 6 of the 
Directive. The Directive is transposed into UK law through the 
Conservation of Habitats and Species Regulations 2017) (the 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – PRELIMINARY ECOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT (NON-CONFIDENTIAL) 
 
Prepared for:  Home and Communities Agency    
 
AECOM 
50 
 
Legislation 
Brief Description 
"Habitats Regulations") and the Wildlife & Countryside Act 1981 
(as amended).  
The Birds Directive 
The Directive on the Conservation of Wild Birds (Directive 
2009/147/EC (the codified version of Council Directive 
79/409/EEC as amended)) provides a framework for the 
protection, management and control of all species of naturally 
occurring wild birds in the European territory of Member States, 
including the UK. The provisions of the Birds Directive are 
transposed into UK law by the Conservation of Habitats and 
Species Regulations, 2017 and the Wildlife & Countryside Act 
1981 (as amended). 
Wildlife and Countryside 
Act (1981) (as 
amended) 
The Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981 (as amended) is the 
principal mechanism for the legislative protection of wildlife in 
Great Britain. This legislation is the means by which the 
Convention on the Conservation of European Wildlife and 
Natural Habitats (Bern Convention) and (partially) the Birds 
Directive and the Habitats Directive are implemented in the UK.  
The Countryside and Rights of Way Act 2000 has strengthened 
this legal protection (see below).  
 
A small number of plant species are listed under Schedule 9 of 
the Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981, as amended, which 
includes species such as Japanese knotweed (Fallopia 
japonica), Himalayan balsam (Impatiens glandulifera), 
montbretia (Crocosmia x crocosmiiflora), giant hogweed 
(Heracleum mantegazzianum) and some cotoneaster species 
(Cotoneaster sp.).  It is illegal to plant or to cause these plants to 
grow in the wild, and legal disposal methods for vegetation and 
soil subject to disturbance or clearance from a site must be 
used.  
Convention on 
Biological Diversity and 
the Countryside and 
Rights of Way Act 2000 
The Countryside and Rights of Way Act 2000 provides a 
statutory framework for biodiversity conservation.  The Act 
places a duty on Government Departments and the National 
Assembly for Wales to have regard for the conservation of 
biodiversity and maintain lists of species and habitats for which 
conservation steps should be taken or promoted, in accordance 
with the Convention on Biological Diversity. 
 
Schedule 9 of the Act amends SSSI provisions of the Wildlife 
and Countryside Act 1981, including provisions to change SSSIs 
and providing increased powers for their protection and 
management. The provisions extend powers for entering into 
management agreements; place a duty on public bodies to 
further the conservation and enhancement of SSSIs; increases 
penalties on conviction where the provisions are breached; and 
introduce a new offence whereby third parties can be convicted 
for damaging SSSIs.   
 Schedule 12 of the Act amends the species provisions of the 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – PRELIMINARY ECOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT (NON-CONFIDENTIAL) 
 
Prepared for:  Home and Communities Agency    
 
AECOM 
51 
 
Legislation 
Brief Description 
Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981, strengthening the legal 
protection for threatened species. The provisions make certain 
offences 'arrestable' and create a new offence of reckless 
disturbance.  
The UK Biodiversity Action Plan (BAP) was published in 1994, 
and was the UK Government’s response to the Convention on 
Biological Diversity (CBD), which the UK signed up to in 1992. It 
provides the framework for fulfilling the UK’s responsibilities 
towards the Convention on Biological Diversity.  Conservation of 
biodiversity (the variety of life on earth) is an essential element 
of sustainable development.  
Environment (Wales) 
Act 2016 
The Environment (Wales) Act puts in place the legislation 
needed to plan and manage Wales’ natural resources in a more 
proactive, sustainable and joined-up way.  Part 1 relates to the 
sustainable management of natural resources.  This ensures 
that the way in which the use of and the impacts on natural 
resources do not result in long term decline.  The aim is to 
sustainably manage natural resources in a way and rate that 
meets the needs of present and current generations without 
compromising the needs of future generations.  
The Act also contains at section 7, a duty for the Welsh Ministers 
prepare and publish a list of the living organisms and types of 
habitat which in their opinion are of principal importance for the 
purpose of maintaining and enhancing biodiversity in relation to 
Wales. This section replaces the duty in section 42 of the NERC 
Act 2006.  
Protection of Badgers 
Act 1992 
The Protection of Badgers Act 1992 makes it an offence to 
wilfully take, kill, injure or ill-treat a badger, possess a dead 
badger or any part of a badger.  Sett interference includes 
damaging or destroying a sett, obstructing access to a sett, and 
disturbing a badger whilst it is occupying a sett. The Act defines 
a badger sett as ‘any structure or place, which displays signs 
indicating the current use by a badger’ and Natural England 
takes this definition to include seasonally used setts. 
 
Work that may disturb badgers or their setts is illegal without a 
development licence from the relevant statutory body (in this 
case Natural Resources Wales). 
The Hedgerow 
Regulations 1997 
The Hedgerow Regulations (1997) make provision for the 
protection of important hedgerows in England and Wales. The 
regulations affect hedgerows which are 20 m or more in length, 
or connected at both ends to another hedgerow of any length. 
 
They relate to hedgerows which are on, or adjoining land used 
for the following purposes: agriculture or forestry; the breeding or 
keeping of horses, ponies or donkeys; common land; village 
greens; and SSSIs (They do not include hedges that are 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – PRELIMINARY ECOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT (NON-CONFIDENTIAL) 
 
Prepared for:  Home and Communities Agency    
 
AECOM 
52 
 
Legislation 
Brief Description 
attached to, or marking the boundaries of a private house. 
 
It is an offence to intentionally or recklessly remove or cause or 
permit another person to remove a hedgerow or intentionally or 
recklessly remove, or cause or permit another person to remove, 
a hedgerow which is the subject of a hedgerow retention notice. 
 
8.4 
Local Planning Policy 
8.4.1 
The table below provides a summary of relevant local planning policies found in the 
Swansea Unitary Development Plan. For the precise wording of each specific 
policy please refer back to the source document.  
Planning Policy 
Purpose /Relevant Sections 
SP1 Creating a 
Quality Environment 
Sustainable development will be pursued as an integral principle of 
the planning and development process.  
Development proposals designed to a high quality and standard, 
which enhance townscape, landscape, sense of place, and 
strengthen Swansea Waterfront identity, will be favoured.  
SP2 - Creating a 
Quality Environment 
The countryside will be protected and conserved, with green 
wedges shaping the urban form and safeguarding the distinctive 
interplay of town and country. Village character will be protected. 
SP3 - Creating a 
Quality Environment 
The natural, built, and cultural heritage of the County will be 
protected and enhanced to safeguard from materially harmful 
development. 
Siting and Location - 
EV2 
The siting of new development should give preference to the use of 
previously developed land over greenfield sites, and must have 
regard to the physical character and topography of the site and its 
surroundings by:  
i. Avoiding locations that would have a significant adverse impact on 
prominent buildings, landscapes, open spaces and the general 
locality, including loss of visual amenity, 
ii. Effectively integrating with the landscape, seascape or coastline 
by utilising topography to integrate into the contours of the site and 
avoiding conspicuous locations on prominent skylines and ridges, 
iii. Retaining important views into and out of the site, 
iv. Taking into account and where possible retaining site features 
including existing buildings, topography, landscape, archaeological 
and water features, trees and hedgerows, and, where appropriate: 
v. Undertaking, at the earliest opportunity, an assessment of 
species and habitats on site and, where planning permission is 
granted, implementing any necessary mitigation measures, 
ix. Determining whether the proposal would be at risk from flooding, 
increase flood risk off-site, or create additional water run-off, 
xiii. Having full regard to existing adjacent developments and the 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – PRELIMINARY ECOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT (NON-CONFIDENTIAL) 
 
Prepared for:  Home and Communities Agency    
 
AECOM 
53 
 
Planning Policy 
Purpose /Relevant Sections 
possible impact of environmental pollution from those 
developments, as well as the creation of any environmental 
pollution to the detriment of neighbouring occupiers (including light, 
air and noise). 
Rural Development - 
EV21 
In the countryside non residential development will only be 
permitted where it can be demonstrated that:  
iii. It is an appropriate development associated with farm 
diversification, sustainable tourism and recreation, or nature 
conservation and does not adversely affect the viability of an 
established farm unit.  
Rural Development - 
EV22 
The countryside throughout the County will be conserved and 
enhanced for the sake of its natural heritage, natural resources, 
historic and cultural environment and agricultural and recreational 
value through:  
i. The control of development, and 
ii. Practical management and improvement measures. 
Sites of International 
Importance - EV25 
Development, alone or in combination with other plans or projects, 
which is likely to adversely affect the integrity of a European 
protected site (SAC, Marine SAC, SPA and Ramsar Sites) and is 
not directly connected with or necessary to the management of the 
site, will not be permitted unless:  
i. There are imperative reasons of over-riding public interest, 
including those of a social or economic nature, which are sufficient 
to override the reasons for designation, and 
ii. There is no alternative solution. 
Where such development is permitted, planning conditions and/or 
obligations will be used to secure all compensatory measures 
necessary to ensure that the overall coherence of the European 
Site is protected. 
SSSIs and National 
Nature Reserves - 
EV27 
Development that significantly adversely affects the special 
interests of sites designated as SSSIs and NNRs will not be 
permitted unless the need for the development is of such 
significance that it outweighs the national importance of the 
designation.  
Where development is permitted, planning conditions and/or 
obligations will be used to protect and enhance those interests and 
where necessary provide effective mitigation and compensatory 
measures. 
Sites of Local 
Importance - EV28 
Within locally designated areas the natural heritage will be 
preserved and enhanced wherever possible.  
Development that would significantly adversely affect the special 
interest of Local Nature Reserves will not be permitted unless the 
need for the development is of such significance that it outweighs 
the importance of the designation.  
Development that would significantly adversely affect SINCs or 
RIGs, or which would not provide for appropriate compensatory or 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – PRELIMINARY ECOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT (NON-CONFIDENTIAL) 
 
Prepared for:  Home and Communities Agency    
 
AECOM 
54 
 
Planning Policy 
Purpose /Relevant Sections 
mitigation measures will not be permitted, unless it can be 
demonstrated to meet appropriate social or economic needs where 
the benefits in such terms would outweigh the harm to the feature 
concerned.  
Where development is permitted which would damage the nature 
conservation value of the site, such damage will be kept to a 
minimum, and appropriate mitigation or compensatory measures 
sought. 
Trees, Woodland 
and Hedgerow 
Protection - EV30 
Protection and improved management of woodlands, trees and 
hedgerows which are important for their visual amenity, historic 
environment, natural heritage, and/or recreation value will be 
encouraged, with priority being given to:  
i. Protecting the remaining areas of ancient semi natural woodland 
and planted ancient woodland sites, 
ii. Promoting new planting with species appropriate to the location, 
where there is no conflict with other land uses or nature 
conservation interests, and 
iii. Ensuring that where management involves commercial felling 
and replanting, protection of amenity interests is achieved. 
Environmental 
Enhancement - 
EV32 
Environmental improvement schemes will be implemented at a 
number of locations shown on the Proposals Map. These are 
intended to:  
i. Improve visual appearance, natural heritage value and recreation 
potential, 
ii. Improve the setting of industrial, commercial and residential 
developments and transport corridors, and 
iii. Maintain, extend and improve the quality of the urban 
greenspace network in line with the aims of the ‘Greening the City’ 
strategy 
Protection of 
Controlled Waters - 
EV34 
Development proposals that may impact upon the water 
environment will only be permitted where it can be demonstrated 
that they would not pose a significant risk to the quality and or 
quantity of controlled waters.  
Initiatives that lead to improvements in the quality of surface water 
will be approved subject to satisfactory ecological and visual 
safeguards. 
Protection of 
Controlled Waters - 
EV35 
Development that would have an adverse impact on the water 
environment due to:  
i. Additional surface water run off leading to a significant risk of 
flooding on site or an increase in flood risk elsewhere, and/or 
ii. A reduction in the quality of surface water run-off, 
will only be permitted where it can be demonstrated that appropriate 
alleviating measures can be implemented.  
Sustainable drainage systems (SUDS) will be encouraged wherever 
they would be effective and practicable, so as to ensure that 
development does not increase run off, and potentially damage 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – PRELIMINARY ECOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT (NON-CONFIDENTIAL) 
 
Prepared for:  Home and Communities Agency    
 
AECOM 
55 
 
Planning Policy 
Purpose /Relevant Sections 
important landscape features and protected species and habitats. 
Where SUDS are not provided then any conventional drainage 
system utilised must improve the status quo. 
Air, Noise and Light 
Pollution EV40 
Development proposals will not be permitted that would cause or 
result in significant harm to health, local amenity, natural heritage, 
the historic environment or landscape character because of 
significant levels of air, noise or light pollution. 
8.4.2 
The table below provides a summary of relevant local planning policies found in the 
Swansea  Local Development Plan 2010 – 2015: Deposit Plan (July 2016). For the 
precise wording of each specific policy please refer back to the source document.  
Planning Policy 
Purpose /Relevant Sections 
ER 1 Climate Change 
To mitigate against the effects of climate change, adapt to 
its impacts, and to ensure resilience, development 
proposals should take into account: 
i. Reducing carbon emissions; 
ii. Protecting and increasing carbon sinks; 
iii. Adapting to the implications of climate change at both a 
strategic and detailed design level; 
iv. Promoting energy and resource efficiency and increasing 
the supply of renewable and low carbon energy; 
v. Avoiding unnecessary flood risk by assessing the 
implications of development proposals within areas 
susceptible to flooding and preventing development that 
unacceptably increases risk, and, 
vi. Maintaining ecological resilience. 
ER 
2 
Strategic 
Green 
Infrastructure Network 
Development will be required to maintain or enhance the 
extent, quality and connectivity of the County’s multi-
functional 
green 
infrastructure 
network, 
and 
where 
appropriate: 
i. Create new interconnected areas of green infrastructure 
between the proposed site and the existing strategic 
network; 
ii. Fill gaps in the existing network to improve connectivity; 
and/or, 
iii. In instances where loss of green infrastructure is 
unavoidable, provide mitigation and compensation for the 
lost assets. 
ER 6 Designated Sites of 
Importance 
for 
Nature 
Conservation 
Development will not be permitted that would result in a 
likely significant adverse effect to sites of international or 
national nature conservation importance. 
Development that would affect locally designated sites of 
nature 
conservation 
importance 
should 
maintain 
or 
enhance the nature conservation interest of the site. Where 
this cannot be achieved development will only be permitted 
where it can be demonstrated that: 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – PRELIMINARY ECOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT (NON-CONFIDENTIAL) 
 
Prepared for:  Home and Communities Agency    
 
AECOM 
56 
 
i. The need for the development outweighs the need to 
protect the site for nature conservation purposes; 
ii. There is no satisfactory alternative location for the 
development that avoids nature conservation impacts; and, 
iii. Any unacceptable harm is kept to a minimum by effective 
avoidance measures and mitigation, or where this is not 
feasible compensatory measures must be put in place to 
ensure that there is no overall reduction in the nature 
conservation value of the area. 
ER 8 Habitats and Species 
Development proposals that would have a significant 
adverse effect on the continued viability of habitats and 
species, including those identified as priorities in the UK or 
Swansea Local Biodiversity Action Plan, will only be 
permitted where: 
i. The need for development outweighs the nature 
conservation importance of the site; 
ii. The developer demonstrates that there is no satisfactory 
alternative location for the development which avoids 
nature conservation impacts; 
iii. Effective mitigation measures are provided by the 
developer; And, 
iv. Any unavoidable harm is minimised by effective 
mitigation to ensure that there is no reduction in the overall 
nature conservation value of the area. Where this is not 
feasible, compensation measures designed to conserve, 
enhance, manage and, where appropriate, restore natural 
habitats and species must be provided. 
ER 9 Ecological Networks and 
Features of Importance for 
Biodiversity 
Development proposals will be expected to maintain, 
protect and enhance ecological networks and features of 
importance for biodiversity. Particular importance will be 
given to maintaining and enhancing the connectivity of 
ecological networks which enable the dispersal and 
functioning of protected and priority species. 
Development proposals that could result in a significant 
adverse effect on the connectivity of ecological networks 
and features of importance for biodiversity will only be 
permitted where: 
i. The need for the development outweighs the nature 
conservation value of the site; 
ii. It can be demonstrated that there is no satisfactory 
alternative location for the 
102 PPW sections 5.5.11 – 5.5.12 and TAN 6 Nature 
Conservation and Planning (2009) chapter 6 
development; 
iii. A connected element of the natural resource is retained 
as part of the design of the development; and, 
iv. Compensatory provision will be made of comparable 
ecological value to that lost as a result of the development. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – PRELIMINARY ECOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT (NON-CONFIDENTIAL) 
 
Prepared for:  Home and Communities Agency    
 
AECOM 
57 
 
ER 
11 
Trees 
and 
Development 
Development that would adversely affect trees, woodlands 
and hedgerows of public amenity, natural/cultural heritage 
value, or that provide important ecosystem services will not 
normally be permitted. 
Ancient Woodland, Ancient Woodland Sites, Ancient and 
Veteran trees merit specific protection and development will 
not normally be permitted that would result in:  
i. Fragmentation or loss of Ancient Woodland; 
ii. The loss of an Ancient or Veteran tree; 
iii. Ground damage, loss of understorey or ground 
disturbance to an area of Ancient Woodland or Ancient or 
Veteran Tree’s root protection area; 
iv. A reduction in the area of other semi natural habitats 
adjoining Ancient Woodland; 
v. Significant alteration to the land use adjoining the Ancient 
Woodland; 
vi. An increase in the likely exposure of Ancient Woodland, 
Ancient or Veteran Tree to air, water or light pollution from 
the surrounding area; 
vii. Alteration of the hydrology in a way that might impact on 
Ancient Woodland, Ancient or Veteran Trees; 
viii. Destruction of important connecting habitats relating to 
Ancient Woodland; 
ix. Degradation of important archaeological or historical 
features within Ancient Woodland or associated with 
Ancient or Veteran trees; 
x. Destruction of Plantations on Ancient Woodland Sites 
(PAWS); and/or, 
xi. Development within 15m of Ancient Woodland. 
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – PRELIMINARY ECOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT (NON-CONFIDENTIAL) 
 
Prepared for:  Home and Communities Agency    
 
AECOM 
58 
 
Appendix B  Target Notes for Phase 1 Habitat Map 
Target 
Note 
Number 
Description 
1 
The woodlands on either side of the path look like they have received historical 
infilll planting.  
2 
Redpoll, goldcrest, blackcap, robin, blue tit, wren, blackcap, blackbird heard in 
this location. 
3 
Tree with tag number 01241. Possible TPO. 
5 
Cuckoo and bullfinch heard in this location. 
6 
Historical earth bank. 
7 
Neutral semi-improved grassland on both sides of the track. Species include 
ribwort plantain, sweet vernal grass, meadow buttercup, silverweed, creeping 
cinquefoil, black knapweed. This area is, good for reptiles. There is a strip of land 
used as a horse gallop which is covered in mulch and bark chippings.  
8 
A large pile of wood within the area of scrub, which provides opportunities for 
reptiles.  
9 
10 
Gate. 
11 
Gate. 
12 
There is an open area of gravel and semi-improved grassland within woodland 
area, this has good reptile potential.  
13 
An area of bracken, some of which has been recently cleared. This area has good 
reptile potential.  
14 
There is a gravel path area with semi-improved grass growth. This area has good 
reptile potential. 
15 
There is a semi-improved grass bank with some newly planted trees. This area 
has potential for reptiles. 
16 
A small area of short perennial vegetation and exposed gravel within the semi-
improved grassland. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – PRELIMINARY ECOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT (NON-CONFIDENTIAL) 
 
Prepared for:  Home and Communities Agency    
 
AECOM 
59 
 
Target 
Note 
Number 
Description 
17 
Some planted hazel and willow within the semi-improved grassland. 
18 
The area by the pylon is a matric of semi-improved and marsh grassland with 
planted shrubs. There is good reptile potential here.  
19 
There is a gabion cage between the scrub and the woodland. This has potential 
to offer shelter and hibernation opportunities for reptiles.  
20 
There is scrub on the bank adjacent to a gravel path. This bank has good 
potential for reptiles.  
21 
Remnant of stone wall/earth bank hedgerow with native bluebells and oak 
saplings. 
22 
Two lapwing seen flying over this field of marshy and improved grassland. 
23 
Field with solar panels which was not accessed. 
24 
Raised bank with stone underneath and scattered hawthorn and oak. 
25 
Public Right of Way (PRoW) stile. 
26 
PRoW gate. 
27 
Gate in fence. 
28 
Pond. 
29 
Broadleaved woodland trees in this area don’t look very suitable for roosting bats. 
Looks likely to support foraging and commuting bats. A PRoW footpath runs 
through this woodland. 
30 
A pile of wood, sheep’s wool, manure and straw. This offers some reptile 
potential. 
31 
Potential for reptiles on grass verge. 
32 
Potential for reptiles within grassland on road edge on either side of this road. 
33 
Potential for dormice within woodland and on edge of road within scrub. 
34 
Potential for dormice within trees and scrub along road edge. 
35 
Potential for dormice, foraging and commuting bats and badger. 
36 
Tall ruderal and scrub vegetation under the pylons on both sides of the road with 
potential to support reptiles. The area is bordered on either side by trees with 
potential for commuting and foraging bats.  
37 
Potential for reptiles. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – PRELIMINARY ECOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT (NON-CONFIDENTIAL) 
 
Prepared for:  Home and Communities Agency    
 
AECOM 
60 
 
Target 
Note 
Number 
Description 
38 
The scattered scrub and semi-improved grassland on this bank offers low 
potential for reptiles due to its road barrier. 
39 
Potential for reptiles on earth bank. 
40 
Pond. 
42 
Trees within this woodland need assessment for bat roosts. 
43 
Brown hare seen in this location on 16/05/17. 
44 
Location of Pond 16 - dry at time of Phase 1 Habitat Survey. 
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – PRELIMINARY ECOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT (NON-CONFIDENTIAL) 
 
Prepared for:  Home and Communities Agency    
 
AECOM 
61 
 
Appendix C  Site Photographs 
 
 
Photograph 1: Bat Tree 1. Red arrows 
indicate features of bat interest. 
Photograph 2: Bat Tree 5. 
 
 
Photograph 3: Bat Tree 6. 
Photograph 4: Bat Tree 7. 
 
 
Photograph 5: Bat Tree 8. 
Photograph 6:  Bat Tree 9. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – PRELIMINARY ECOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT (NON-CONFIDENTIAL) 
 
Prepared for:  Home and Communities Agency    
 
AECOM 
62 
 
 
 
Photograph 7: Building 2. 
Photograph 8: Building 2. 
 
 
Photograph 9: Building 2. 
Photograph 10: Building 2. 
 
 
Photograph 11: Building 2. 
Photograph 12: Building 3. 
 
 
Photograph 13: Building 3. 
Photograph 14: Building 3. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – PRELIMINARY ECOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT (NON-CONFIDENTIAL) 
 
Prepared for:  Home and Communities Agency    
 
AECOM 
63 
 
 
 
Photograph 15: Building 3 
Photograph 16: Building 4. 
 
 
Photograph 17: Building 4, a close up of 
photograph 16. 
Photograph 18: Japanese knotweed, Invasive 
Species Point 4. 
 
 
Photograph 19: Area of gravel pathway within 
semi-improved grassland bordered by scrub 
and a row of trees (Appendix B: Target Note 
14).  
Photograph 20: An area of wood, sheep’s 
wool and manure within an improved 
grassland field (Appendix B: Target Note 30). 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – PRELIMINARY ECOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT (NON-CONFIDENTIAL) 
 
Prepared for:  Home and Communities Agency    
 
AECOM 
64 
 
 
 
Photograph 21: An area of semi-improved 
grassland in the south of the Project Site.  
Photograph 22:  The road leading to National 
Grid area, bordered by woodland, hedgerows 
and rows of trees. 
 
 
Photograph 23: An area of dense scrub 
bordered by woodland. 
Photograph 24: An area of semi-improved 
grassland and scrub adjacent to woodland. 
 
 
 
Photograph 25: A track with semi-improved 
grassland either side. A row trees is visible in 
the background (Appendix B: Target Note 7). 
Photograph 26: An improved grassland field 
with running water (ditch) and a row of trees. 
 
 
