 
 
The Millbrook Power  
(Gas Fired Power Station) Order 
 
9.2 Gas Connection Statement 
 
Planning Act 2008 
The Infrastructure Planning  
(Applications: Prescribed Forms and Procedure) Regulations 2009 
 
PINS Reference Number:  
 
EN010068 
Document Reference: 
 
 
9.2 
Regulation Number: 
 
 
5(2)(p) & 6(1)(a)(ii) 
Author: 
 
 
 
 
Millbrook Power Limited 
 
Revision 
 
Date  
 
Description  
 
0 
 
 
October 2017 
Submission Version  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Contents 
 
          
 
 
 
          
   Page 
 
1. 
INTRODUCTION  
 
 
 
 
 
 
             2 
2. 
PROJECT SUMMARY 
4 
3. 
CONTRACTUAL AGREEMENTS 
5 
4. 
PIPELINE CROSSING AGREEMENTS 
6 
5. 
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR DESIGNING AND BUILDING THE GAS CONNECTION 
(REGULATION 6(1)(A)(II)) 
7 
6. 
ACQUISITION OF LAND AND RIGHTS 
12 
7. 
DEVELOPMENT CONSENT FOR THE CONNECTION WORKS 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Millbrook Power Project – 9.2 Gas Connection Statement 
2 
1. 
INTRODUCTION 
1.1 
Millbrook Power Limited (MPL) is seeking to develop a gas fired power station at 
Rookery South Pit located near the villages of Stewartby, Millbrook, Lidlington and 
Marston Moretaine, Bedfordshire, referred to as the Millbrook Power Project.     
1.2 
The Project constitutes a Nationally Significant Infrastructure Project (NSIP) by virtue 
of section 14 (1)(a) and sections 15(1) and (2) of the Planning Act 2008 (PA 2008) 
which includes within the definition of an NSIP any onshore generating station in 
England or Wales of 50 MWe capacity or more. Under section 31 of the PA 2008 a 
development consent order (DCO) is required to develop a NSIP. Under section 37 of 
the PA 2008, the DCO can only be granted if an application is made for it to the 
Secretary of State (SoS) (the DCO Application) 
1.3 
The Project would comprise: 
I. 
a new Power Generation Plant in the form of an Open Cycle Gas Turbine 
(OCGT) peaking power generating station, fuelled by natural gas with a rated 
electrical output of up to 299 MW.  This is the output of the generating station 
as a whole, measured at the terminals of the generating equipment. The Power 
Generation Plant comprises: 
(a) 
generating equipment including one Gas Turbine Generator with one 
exhaust gas flue stack and Balance of Plant (together referred to as 
the 'Generating Equipment'), which are located within the 'Generating 
Equipment Site'; 
(b) 
a new purpose built access road from Green Lane to the Generating 
Equipment Site (the 'Access Road' or the ‘Short Access Road’);  
(c) 
a temporary construction compound required during construction only 
(the 'Laydown Area'); 
II. 
a new underground gas pipeline connection, approximately 1.8 km in length 
(the ‘Pipeline’) to bring natural gas to the Generating Equipment from the 
National Transmission System (the ‘Gas Connection’). The Gas Connection 
also incorporates an Above Ground Installation (AGI) at the point of connection 
to the National Transmission System; and 
III. 
a new electrical connection to export power from the Generating Equipment to 
the National Grid Electricity Transmission System (NETS) (the ‘Electrical 
Connection’), comprising an underground double circuit Tee-in. This would 
require one new tower (which will replace an existing tower and be located in 
the existing Grendon – Sundon transmission route corridor, thereby resulting 
in no net additional towers). This option would require two SECs, one located 
on each side of the existing transmission line, and both circuits would then be 
connected via underground cables approximately 500 m in length to a new 
substation (the ‘Substation’). 
 
 
 
Millbrook Power Project – 9.2 Gas Connection Statement 
3 
1.4 
The Generating Equipment, Access Road and Construction Laydown Area are 
together known as the ‘Power Generation Plant’ and are located within the ‘Power 
Generation Plant Site’. The Power Generation Plant Site is approximately 12.5 ha in 
area.  
1.5 
The Power Generation Plant, Gas Connection, and Electrical Connection, together 
with all access requirements are referred to as the ‘Project’. The land upon which the 
Project would be developed, or which would be required in order to facilitate the 
development of the Project, is referred to as the ‘Project Site’. The Project Site is 
approximately 48 ha in area. 
1.7 
The Gas Connection comprises the pipeline itself (the Pipeline) as well as the AGI.  In 
turn the AGI consists of two parts, a pipeline inspection gauge (PIG) trap facility (PTF) 
and a minimum offtake connection (MOC). 
1.8 
Section 37 of the PA 2008 governs the content of an application for a development 
consent order, including the requirements for the necessary accompanying documents 
specified in the Infrastructure Planning (Applications: Prescribed Forms and 
Procedure) Regulations 2009 (APFP Regulations). 
1.9 
This Gas Connection Statement accompanies the DCO Application and has been 
prepared to comply with Regulation 6(1)(a)(ii) of the APFP Regulations, which, where 
a DCO Application is for a gas fuelled generating station, requires the Applicant to 
provide "a statement of who will be responsible for designing and building the gas 
pipeline connection to the generating station".  
1.10 
A full glossary of defined terms is presented in Document Reference 1.4. 
 
 
Millbrook Power Project – 9.2 Gas Connection Statement 
4 
2. 
PROJECT SUMMARY 
2.1 
The Generating Equipment would operate as a OCGT peaking plant and would be 
designed to provide an electrical output of up to 299 MWe.  The plant would be fuelled 
by natural gas, supplied to the Power Generation Plant Site by a new gas pipeline 
connecting the Generating Equipment to the National Gas Transmission System.   
2.2 
Peaking plants are required to operate when there is a surge in demand for electricity 
associated with a particular event (e.g. where many people across the country boil 
kettles following the end of a popular television programme) or where there is a sudden 
drop in power being generated from other power plants which are constantly 
operational (e.g. a sudden outage). 
2.3 
Operating as a peaking plant, the Generating Equipment would also help to ‘balance 
out’ the grid at times of peak electricity demand and will help to support the grid at 
times when other technologies (e.g. wind and solar farms) cannot generate electricity 
due to their intermittent operation and reliance on weather conditions.  Peaking plants 
are therefore vital in ‘evening out’ the power in the grid system.  The Generating 
Equipment would operate intermittently for up to 2,250 hours per year. This could be 
at any time during the year and for any length of time up to but not exceeding 2,250 
hours and not exceeding 1,500 hours on a 5 year rolling average 
2.4 
The Generating Equipment will supply electricity to the NETS operated by National 
Grid Electricity Transmission PLC (NGET).  NGET holds a transmission licence issued 
pursuant to the Electricity Act 1989. 
2.5 
The Project is more fully described in section 3 of the Environmental Statement 
(Document Reference 6.1).  
                                                                                                                                                            
 
 
Millbrook Power Project – 9.2 Gas Connection Statement 
5 
3. 
CONTRACTUAL AGREEMENTS 
3.1 
MPL will submit a connection application to National Grid Gas (NGG) in 2018 for the 
MOC (which facilitates the connection of the Pipeline to the National Transmission 
System) to connect the Generating Equipment to the National Transmission System.  
3.2 
Upon submission of the application, NGG will have 6 months to provide MPL with a 
connection offer at which point MPL will have a further 3 months to decide whether to 
accept the terms of the offer. 
3.3 
Upon acceptance, MPL will enter into a Design and Build Agreement (DBA) with NGG 
for the construction of the new MOC. The DBA will set out the cost and timescales for 
delivery of the MOC. These timescales will be designed to meet the target first 
operations date of 2022 as stated in the Environmental Statement (Document 
Reference: 6.1). 
  
 
 
 
Millbrook Power Project – 9.2 Gas Connection Statement 
6 
4. 
PIPELINE CROSSING AGREEMENTS 
Anglian Water 
 
4.1 
The Pipeline will need to cross a water pipeline owned by Anglian Water (plot 8_GC, 
12_GC and 12A_GC) within the Book of Reference (Document Reference: 4.3).  
4.2 
Although not exhaustive, the works include horizontal directional drilling underneath 
pipes and the crossing of ground above pipes with vehicles during construction and 
use of land for stockpiling.    
4.3 
MPL is in active discussions with Anglian Water over the crossing of its assets. 
Protective provisions for the benefit of Anglian Water have been included in the draft 
DCO (Document Reference 3.1) and have been sent to Anglian Water for agreement. 
Compania Logistica de Hidrocarburos 
 
4.4 
The Pipeline will need to cross an oil pipeline owned by Compania Logistica de 
Hidrocarburos, c/o CLH Pipeline System (CLH-PS) Ltd (plot 7_GC, 7A_GC and 
7B_GC) within the Book of Reference (Document Reference 4.3). 
4.5 
Although not exhaustive, the works include horizontal directional drilling underneath 
pipes and the crossing of ground above pipes with vehicles during construction and 
use of land for stockpiling.    
4.6 
MPL is in active discussions with CLH-PS over the crossing of its assets. Protective 
provisions for the benefit of CLH-PS have been included in the draft DCO (Document 
Reference: 3.1) and have been sent to CLH-PS for agreement.   
National Grid Gas 
 
4.7 
The Pipeline will need to cross gas pipeline Feeder 9, owned by NGG (9_GC, 9A_GC, 
9B_GC, 11_GC, 12_GC and 12A_GC) within the Book of Reference (Document 
Reference: 4.3).  
4.8 
Although not exhaustive the works broadly include horizontal directional drilling 
underneath pipes and the crossing of ground above pipes with vehicles during 
construction and use of land for stockpiling.   
4.9 
MPL is in active discussions with NGG over the crossing of its assets. Protective 
provisions for the benefit of NGG have been included in the draft DCO (Document 
Reference: 3.1) and have been sent to NGG for agreement..  
 
 
 
 
Millbrook Power Project – 9.2 Gas Connection Statement 
7 
 
5. 
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR DESIGNING AND BUILDING THE GAS CONNECTION 
(Regulation 6(1)(a)(ii)) 
Background 
5.1 
The UK National Grid Gas system is split into two parts, the National Transmission 
System and the LTS (Local Transmission System). 
5.2 
The National Transmission System represents the infrastructure designed to transmit 
gas large distances around the country, this infrastructure principally consists of large 
diameter pipelines (> 24”/600mm) operating at high pressure (~70barg).  The National 
Transmission System is the backbone of the UK gas infrastructure. 
5.3 
Feasibility studies identified that Feeder 9 on the National Transmission System is the 
most appropriate connection option from the Generating Equipment.  Two possible 
locations for connecting to Feeder 9 and one connecting to Feeder 7 were reviewed 
and assessed based on industry best practice categories.  This work entailed looking 
at a small number of routes to the nearest National Transmission System infrastructure 
and culminated with a preferred MOC location and pipeline route.  The location of the 
AGI was moved slightly further south along Feeder 9 after discussions with the 
landowner. This didn’t change the conclusions of the feasibility study. Two options to 
connect into the LTS were identified but subsequently discarded as not feasible as a 
result of significantly longer, more complicated pipeline routes and the LTS generally 
operating at a much lower pressure and capacity than the National Transmission 
System. 
5.4 
Preliminary discussions with NGG have indicated the likelihood of available gas 
capacity in Feeder 9 for the MPL requirements. 
5.5 
Further information on the Gas Connection, including the alternative route options 
considered, is contained in sections 3 and 5 of the Environmental Statement 
(Document Reference 6.1).  An explanation of consultation feedback received on the 
Gas Connection and how it has been taken into account is contained in the 
Consultation Report (Document Reference 5.1).  
The Gas Connection  
5.6 
The route of the Pipeline is approximately 1.82 km in length and it involves no major 
road crossings, one minor road crossing, one farm track crossing, no major or minor 
water crossings, two ditch crossings and no in-road mains-laying. It also crosses the 
National Transmission System Feeder 9 gas pipeline, an oil pipeline and an Anglian 
Water pipe. Further to the feasibility study, a conceptual design study has been carried 
out by MPL which has identified the following pipeline route and AGI location (which is 
reflected within the limits of deviation for the Project as shown on the Works Plans 
(Document Reference 2.6).  This also incorporates the move of the AGI further south 
along Feeder 9 at the request of the landowner. 
I. 
The Pipeline begins at the AGI which would allow connection into the National 
Transmission System Feeder 9, east of the Millbrook Proving Ground 
 
 
Millbrook Power Project – 9.2 Gas Connection Statement 
8 
approximately 1.45 km south of the Generating Equipment Site. The Pipeline 
exits the AGI to the north and immediately crosses a farm track which is 
connected to Lower Farm. The route then continues in a northerly direction for 
around 25 m before it turns 45 to the west crossing National Transmission 
System Feeder 9. It continues west for approximately 20 m before turning 45 
back to the east. It continues in this northerly direction for approximately 110 
m before crossing a public right of way (PRoW) identified as public footpath 7. 
II. 
After another 70 m, the route turns 45 to the west before crossing Houghton 
Lane. The route then turns 45 back to the east for 100 m and then 45 further 
to the east before crossing under a set of overhead lines. After a further 30 m 
the route turns 45° to the west and continues due north for approximately 250 
m before turning a further 22.5° west and crossing between a gap in the 
hedgerow of a field boundary. After crossing the hedgerow, the route turns a 
further 22.5° west and after approximately 300 m crosses beneath an oil 
pipeline. The route then continues in the same direction for approximately 220 
m before turning 11.25° to the east and after 80 m crosses a further PRoW 
(public footpath 65) and a field drain. 
III. 
The route then continues for a further 100 m before turning 90° west into the 
Generating Equipment Site.  
5.7 
The AGI will be accessed both during construction and operation via an existing 
agricultural track. Upgrade works consisting of a new tarmac surface will be required 
as part of the Project along the approximately 150 m long part of the track that is 
required for construction and operation.  
5.8 
Full details of the permanent and temporary rights required are contained in the Book 
of Reference (Document Reference 4.3). 
5.9 
The location of the Gas Connection is shown on the Works Plans (Document 
Reference 2.6).  
Design: Pipeline 
5.10 
MPL will be responsible for the design of the Pipeline.  
5.11 
The Pipeline would be designed, constructed and tested to comply with the Institute of 
Gas Engineers’ (IGE) Recommendations on Transmission and Distribution Practice – 
IGE/TD/1: Edition 5, 2009 - Steel Pipelines and Associated Installations for High 
Pressure Gas Transmission (IGE/TD/1) (as the same may be amended or replaced 
from time to time). 
5.12 
The standard Pipeline wall thickness would comply with the requirements of IGE/TD/1, 
which defines the minimum safe separation distance between a high pressure gas 
pipeline and normally inhabited buildings / major roads / major railways.  This minimum 
safe separation distance is known as the Building Proximity Distance (BPD).  If 
normally inhabited buildings / major roads / major railways are closer than 1 BPD (i.e. 
the gas pipeline is in an area where additional protection is required), thicker wall steel 
pipe (known as proximity pipe) would be used.  The exact locations and lengths of 
 
 
Millbrook Power Project – 9.2 Gas Connection Statement 
9 
where thicker wall steel pipe would be used would be confirmed throughout the 
assessment and detailed design stages. 
5.13 
The Pipeline would be buried to a depth of cover which is in accordance with 
recognised industry standards.  For example, depths of cover would be: 
• 
No less than 1.2m in agricultural land; 
• 
No less than 2m under road crossings; and 
• 
No less than 1.7m under water crossings. 
Design: AGI 
5.14 
The MOC, would be designed, constructed, owned and operated by NGG.  
5.15 
The MOC (approximately 35x35 m) would contain: 
• 
Remotely Operable Valve(s) (ROV); 
• 
Control and Instrumentation Kiosk(s); 
• 
Electrical Supply Kiosk(s). 
5.16 
The PTF would be designed, constructed, owned and operated by MPL. 
5.17 
PTF (approximately 35x30 m) would contain: 
• 
PIG Launching Facility; 
• 
Emergency Control Valve(s); 
• 
Isolation Valve(s); 
• 
Control and Instrumentation Kiosk(s); 
• 
Electrical Supply Kiosk(s). 
Construction 
5.18 
MPL will responsible for the construction of the Pipeline and the PTF.  
5.19 
The MOC will be constructed by NGG. 
5.20 
Construction of the Pipeline would likely take place within a temporarily fenced strip of 
land called the ‘working width’.  The gas pipeline working width is required to facilitate 
safe construction and the protection of off-site receptors. 
5.21 
It is likely that the working width may be approximately 50 m along the length of the 
Pipeline, although it may be necessary to increase / decrease the working width at 
specific points.  For example, adjacent to special crossings it may be necessary to 
increase the working width to provide additional working areas and storage for 
materials or special plant.  Alternatively, adjacent to areas of conservation or existing 
services it may be necessary to decrease the working width. These working widths can 
 
 
Millbrook Power Project – 9.2 Gas Connection Statement 
10 
be seen on the Land Plans (Document Reference 2.5) and the Works Plans (Document 
Reference 2.6). 
5.22 
Access to the working width will be at defined points at each end of the working width, 
shown (where relevant) on the Rights of Way, Streets and Access Plan (Document 
Reference 2.7).  These points would be carefully controlled and signposted, and gates 
/ stiles would be incorporated into the temporary fences wherever access must be 
maintained. The proposed Gas Connection crosses two public footpaths which will be 
temporarily diverted during construction. Proposed diversion areas are shown on the 
Rights of Way, Streets and Access Plan (Document Reference 2.7). 
5.23 
Aside from the special crossings, where trenchless techniques may be used to reduce 
impact on sensitive areas or to cross the pipelines referred to above, it is expected that 
the Pipeline will be constructed using standard open-cut cross-country pipeline 
construction techniques.  The main activities will include: topsoil stripping; pipe 
stringing (the process of laying the pipe end to end) and welding; trench excavation; 
pipe laying (positioning of the welded pipe into the trench); back filling; pressure 
testing, drying and pipeline pigging operations; and re-instatement of the land.  
5.24 
Topsoil would be stripped within the working width along the Pipeline route and a 
running track would be established to allow the movement of machinery.  The Pipeline 
would be constructed from lengths of steel pipe of a length of up to approximately 12 
m.  These are normally off-loaded with cranes at road crossings, transported along the 
working width and laid out on timbers adjacent to the trench line in preparation for 
welding and lowering into the trench.  The individual lengths of pipe are then welded 
together to form the pipeline which is then subjected to inspection.  Once the welds 
are accepted, a standard coating is applied on site.  The pipeline coating is then tested 
electronically along the whole of its length to detect damage or other defects, which if 
present would be repaired before re-testing.  
Pipeline Crossings 
5.25 
The Pipeline crosses both the National Transmission System Feeder 9 gas pipeline, 
an oil pipeline and an Anglian Water pipeline. The conceptual design study has 
identified a horizontal auger bore technique as being a suitable method to construct 
the Pipeline at these locations. MPL has consulted with NGG, CLH-PS, and Anglian 
Water regarding the Project.  Protective provisions are included in the draft Order for 
NGG, Anglian Water and CLH-PS to protect their assets (Document Reference 3.1). If 
required, crossing agreements will be entered into prior to construction commencing.         
Operation 
5.26 
MPL will be responsible for the operation of the Pipeline and the PTF. NGG will be 
responsible for the operation of the MOC.  
5.27 
The Gas Connection would remain operational for the entire lifetime of the Power 
Generation Plant.  No parts of the Gas Connection would be manned.  Telemetry 
apparatus (both within the Pipeline trench and at the AGI) would report back any issues 
to a central control room.  
 
 
Millbrook Power Project – 9.2 Gas Connection Statement 
11 
Maintenance 
5.28 
MPL will be responsible for the maintenance of the gas pipeline and PTF. NGG will be 
responsible for the maintenance of the MOC.  
5.29 
Should any significant maintenance issues be identified, the Gas Connection would be 
isolated and the supply switched off, pending investigation of any faults.  Access to the 
AGI during maintenance / repair would be via Houghton Lane and the access track to 
the AGI that leads off Houghton Lane. 
5.30 
No new access points would be created to access the Pipeline. Maintenance checks 
will be carried out on foot due to the small length of the Pipeline. In the unlikely event 
that there were issues with the operation of the Pipeline, it would be accessed through 
existing open fields, within the permanent easement for the Pipeline which would 
provide for access rights to allow for maintenance.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Millbrook Power Project – 9.2 Gas Connection Statement 
12 
6. 
ACQUISITION OF LAND AND RIGHTS  
6.1 
The proposed DCO for the Project includes powers to compulsorily acquire land and 
new rights and impose restrictions to allow MPL to construct, use and maintain the 
Gas Connection.  These are fully described in the Book of Reference (Document 
Reference 4.3), shown on the Land Plans (Document Reference 2.5) and are justified 
in the Statement of Reasons (Document Reference 4.1). 
6.2 
These powers include acquisition of the freehold of the site of the AGI and a right of 
access to the AGI via the access track off Houghton Lane.  In respect of the Pipeline, 
MPL is seeking to compulsorily acquire new rights and impose restrictions for MPL and 
all persons authorised on its behalf to enter on foot, or with vehicles, plant and 
machinery for all purposes in connection with the laying, installing, use and 
maintenance of a high pressure gas pipeline (up to 250 mm nominal bore), 
telecommunications, other ancillary apparatus and any other works as necessary. In 
addition, the powers include the right to install, retain, use, maintain, inspect, repair, 
adjust, alter, remove, refurbish, reconstruct, replace and improve the said pipeline, 
telecommunications, other ancillary apparatus and any other works necessary 
together with temporary use for the purpose of laying, installing, using and maintaining 
the said pipeline, telecommunications, other ancillary apparatus and any other works 
as necessary. Temporary use powers are also sought adjacent to either side of the 
Pipeline route for the purposes of construction.  
6.3 
MPL already holds the necessary rights described above in respect of land to the north 
of public footpath 65 by virtue of an option agreement with the land owner. However, 
MPL is also including these powers in relation to this land, as explained in the 
Statement of Reasons (Document Reference 4.1).  
6.4 
MPL is seeking to acquire the rights described above in respect of the remainder of 
the Pipeline route and the land required for the AGI by agreement. Further details are 
set out in the Statement of Reasons (Document Reference 4.1). 
 
 
 
 
Millbrook Power Project – 9.2 Gas Connection Statement 
13 
7. 
DEVELOPMENT CONSENT FOR THE CONNECTION WORKS 
7.1 
MPL is required to submit a statement pursuant to regulation 6 of the APFP 
Regulations to provide "a statement of who will be responsible for designing and 
building the gas pipeline connection to the generating station". 
7.2 
MPL considers that this statement provides confirmation to the Secretary of State that: 
7.2.1 
MPL will secure a design and build agreement with NGG regarding connection 
of the Generating Equipment to the National Transmission System; 
7.2.2 
The agreement will provide that MPL will design and build the Pipeline and 
PTF with NGG building and owning the MOC; 
7.2.3 
MPL will secure the necessary land and rights to allow NGG and itself to 
construct numbered works 3A, 3B and 4A; 
7.2.4 
In including the Gas Connection as numbered works 3A, 3B and 4A in the draft 
DCO, MPL would, if the draft DCO was made on substantively the same terms 
as those submitted, have secured development consent for the Gas 
Connection. 
7.2.5 
Preliminary discussions with NGG have indicated the likelihood of available 
gas capacity in Feeder 9 for the MPL requirements.  
 
 
