 
S47 SoCC 
September 2013                                                  1 
 
PROGRESS POWER 
  
POWER GENERATION PROJECT 
EYE AIRFIELD, SUFFOLK 
 
STATEMENT OF COMMUNITY CONSULTATION 
SEPTEMBER 2013 
 
This Statement of Community Consultation is published in connection with a 
proposed gas-fired electricity generation project which includes a power generation 
plant and gas connection at the former Eye Airfield in Suffolk, together with an 
electrical connection and substation to connect the power generation plant to the 
existing nearby overhead transmission line (the Project).  It explains how individuals 
living and working in the vicinity as well as other interests such as local businesses 
and local civic/community organisations can comment on the proposals to construct, 
operate and maintain the Project.   
 
The proposed Project is being promoted by Progress Power Limited (PPL), a 
company established by Watt Power Limited. Watt Power is seeking to develop gas-
fired power stations at Eye and elsewhere in the UK to support the UK Government 
drive to a low carbon economy. 
  
PPL has consulted Mid Suffolk District Council and Suffolk County Council about the 
content of this Statement of Community Consultation and has had regard to their 
responses.   
 
The capacity of the proposed power generation plant will be in excess of 50 MW of 
electricity. The Project is classified as a Nationally Significant Infrastructure Project 
and associated development under the Planning Act 2008, which means that a 
Development Consent Order (DCO) is required to build, operate and maintain it.  It is 
possible that the electrical connection and substation will need to be consented 
separately from the DCO and not as part of the Project (this is subject to ongoing 
discussions with National Grid). At present it is PPL's intention and preference to 
include these elements in its proposed DCO application. Consultees will be 
requested to assume these elements form part of the Project when responding to the 
consultation.  
 
S47 SoCC 
September 2013                                                  2 
 
 
This Statement of Community Consultation is part of a consultation process that PPL 
is carrying out before it makes a formal application to the Planning Inspectorate and 
the Secretary of State for Energy and Climate Change (Secretary of State) for a 
DCO. 
 
This Statement explains: 
• what the proposed Project is about; 
• how PPL is publishing preliminary environmental information about the proposed 
Project; 
• how PPL is going to consult local people and communities about the proposed 
Project, and what activities will be undertaken to give them access to information 
about the proposal and help them to understand what particular aspects of the 
proposal may mean to them, enabling them to provide informed feedback; 
• how people can become involved in shaping the proposal before a DCO 
application is submitted by putting forward their views to influence the proposal, 
particularly regarding specific options under consideration; and 
• how people can provide feedback to PPL from consultation activities and ensure 
that they are informed about the proposed Project.  
 
The Project 
The key details of the proposed Project are: 
• the construction, operation and maintenance of a Simple Cycle Gas Turbine 
power  generation plant capable of generating up to 299MW of electricity; that is 
enough energy to supply up to 400,000 homes;  
• the power generation plant will have up to five stacks, each up to 30m in height; 
• the site for the power generation plant covers an area of approximately 10ha and 
is located within the Eye Airfield business and industrial estates; however, the 
footprint of the power generation plant would be smaller than the full site;  
• the power generation plant is designed to provide back-up generation capacity 
which can operate flexibly to respond quickly and efficiently to both short-term 
variation in customer demand and intermittent output from renewable power 
 
S47 SoCC 
September 2013                                                  3 
 
generation. It is anticipated that it will operate for no more than 1500 hours per 
year; 
• the power generation plant will produce electricity from natural gas; 
• the proposed Project includes the construction, operation and maintenance of a 
new underground electrical connection together with a new substation and 
equipment (referred to as a sealing end compound) to connect the power 
generation plant to the existing nearby overhead power line which is part of the 
National Electricity Transmission System. The substation with dimensions 
approximately 160m x 150m, up to 12.5m in height and sealing end compound 
with dimensions approximately 45m x 25m, up to 10m in height are together 
referred to as the electrical connection compound; 
• it will also include the construction, operation and maintenance of a new  
underground pipeline to bring natural gas to the power generating plant from the 
National Gas Transmission System, located close to the site; 
• subject to public consultation, planning and financing, the power generation plant 
could enter commercial operation in 2018; 
• it will create approximately 150-250 jobs during a construction period lasting up to 
three years and create up to 15 permanent jobs once commercial operations 
have begun;    
• it responds to the UK Government’s need for new gas generation in order to 
underpin the country’s energy security and its transition to a low-carbon 
economy; 
• the station would emit about 50% less carbon dioxide (CO2) than an equivalent 
sized coal-fired power plant; and 
• it is acknowledged that during construction and operation there is potential for 
negative impacts on some local communities and the environment, for example 
noise from on-site construction plant, impacts on the local and regional transport 
network as a result of construction traffic and landscape and visual impacts of up 
to five 30m stacks and the substation. An Environmental Impact Assessment 
(EIA) is being undertaken to understand and minimise these and other potential 
effects of the Project’s construction, and thereafter its operation and 
maintenance.  More information on this process is provided below. The EIA 
process is also considering the potential positive effects of the Project. 
 
S47 SoCC 
September 2013                                                  4 
 
 
At this stage the preferred route options for the gas and electrical connection 
corridors have yet to be finalised. The location and layout of the electrical connection 
compound have also to be finalised, although two site options of approximately 12ha 
have been identified, and preliminary preferred locations for the electrical connection 
compound site identified within each site. Continued consultation and environmental 
assessment on the connection route options and possible electrical connection 
compound sites is required before each can be confirmed. In addition, although a 
preliminary preferred location of the power generation plant within the 10ha site has 
been identified, the final location and layout are yet to be determined. The 
consultation materials and events will provide further information.  
 
The Planning Process 
DCO applications for Nationally Significant Infrastructure Projects are submitted to 
the Planning Inspectorate, who process and examine the applications before making 
a recommendation to the relevant Secretary of State. The final decision on an 
application is made by the Secretary of State.  
 
The Government's policies in relation to Nationally Significant Infrastructure Projects 
are set out in National Policy Statements (NPSs). The proposed Project has been 
developed with regard to the relevant Energy NPSs, in particular EN-1 (Energy), EN-
2 (Fossil Fuel Electricity Generating Infrastructure), EN-4 (Gas Supply Infrastructure 
and Gas and Oil Pipelines) and EN-5 (Electricity Networks Infrastructure).  EN-1 
states that "gas will continue to play an important role in the electricity sector- 
providing vital flexibility to support an increasing amount of low-carbon generation 
and to maintain security of supply."  The need for the Project is established through 
the NPSs and is therefore not a topic for consultation.  
 
When determining a DCO application, the Secretary of State must have regard to the 
relevant NPSs and must make a decision in accordance with these unless she/he is 
satisfied that the adverse impact of the proposed development would outweigh the 
identified need in the NPSs.  
  
 
S47 SoCC 
September 2013                                                  5 
 
When considering whether to accept an application for examination, the Planning 
Inspectorate must be satisfied that the applicant has undertaken effective pre-
application consultation.  Pre-application consultation is essential in allowing PPL to 
understand and minimise the impacts of the proposed Project and to allow a 
thorough examination by the Planning Inspectorate. PPL is required to submit a 
Consultation Report with its application for a DCO.  This report will include details of 
the local community feedback received, explain how PPL has had regard to the 
feedback and will detail how PPL has complied with the consultation requirements of 
the Planning Act 2008. 
 
The community consultation described in this statement is carried out under Section 
47 of the Planning Act 2008. It is in addition to consultation that will be carried out 
with specific statutory consultees (such as statutory nature conservation bodies) and 
those with relevant interests in land (including owners and occupiers within the 
Project boundary) under Section 42 of the Planning Act 2008. It is also in addition to 
wider publication of the proposed Project under Section 48 of the Planning Act 2008.  
 
Information on the planning process and the NPSs can be found at: 
www.planningportal.gov.uk/planning/planninginspectorate 
www.decc.gov.uk/en/content/cms/meeting_energy/consents_planning/nps_en_infra/
nps_en_infra.aspx 
 
Environmental Information & Impacts 
The proposed Project will be designed and developed to meet or exceed relevant 
and current quality, safety and environmental standards.  Efforts will be made to 
minimise its impact on the local environment, both during its construction, its 
operation and maintenance.  The Project and PPL’s provisional proposals to mitigate 
its impacts will be consulted upon locally and will be amongst the issues considered 
by the Planning Inspectorate on behalf of the Secretary of State. 
 
Due to the nature and size of the Project, PPL is undertaking an EIA. Therefore, the 
Project is classed as EIA development under the Infrastructure Planning 
(Environmental Impact Assessment) Regulations 2009. The EIA considers the 
 
S47 SoCC 
September 2013                                                  6 
 
potential impacts of the Project including air and water quality, noise, visual and 
cumulative impact, traffic, local ecology, archaeology and heritage and socio-
economics.   
 
PPL has consulted with various statutory bodies concerning the scope of the EIA, 
including local authorities, the Environment Agency, the Highways Agency, Natural 
England and utility providers. A request for a Scoping Opinion was submitted to the 
Planning Inspectorate on 17 May 2013, accompanied by a Scoping Report. The 
Scoping Report outlines which environmental topics will be covered by the EIA and 
how the assessments will be undertaken. The Planning Inspectorate issued its 
formal Scoping Opinion on 26 June 2013.  
 
All 
documents 
are 
available 
on 
the 
Progress 
Power 
website 
(www.progresspower.co.uk) and via the dedicated section on the Planning 
Inspectorate’s website:  
http://infrastructure.planningportal.gov.uk/projects/eastern/progress-power-station/.  
 
As part of the pre-application consultation materials on the proposed Project, PPL 
will publish a Preliminary Environmental Information Report (PEIR) and a non-
technical summary.  The PEIR presents the information gathered to date and 
provides the results of PPL’s preliminary assessments as to the likely significant 
environmental effects both positive and negative, of the construction, operation, 
maintenance and decommissioning phases of the Project. It does not set out the 
final findings, which will be included in the Environmental Statement that will 
accompany the DCO application when it is submitted to the Planning Inspectorate for 
examination.  However, the PEIR does include information on provisional mitigation 
measures. The non-technical summary presents a summary of this information.   
 
PPL will provide copies of the PEIR and the non-technical summary to Mid Suffolk 
District Council and Suffolk County Council.  Both documents will also be made 
available at the main office of Mid Suffolk District Council (High Street, Needham 
Market IP6 8DL – 01449 724500), local libraries, at public exhibitions and on the 
PPL website.  
 
S47 SoCC 
September 2013                                                  7 
 
 
When the EIA process is complete and PPL submits its application for a DCO, it will 
be accompanied by an Environmental Statement. This will report on the likely 
significant environmental effects of the Project identified in the EIA and, where 
negative effects are identified, will explain the mitigation measures to avoid or reduce 
these.  
 
Public Consultation 
The views of the local community about the Project are important.  In May 2013, PPL 
shared its initial plans with people living in the vicinity of the site at an exhibition held 
over two days at Eye Community Centre.  At the exhibition and since, PPL has 
received and responded to comments on the proposed Project and its impact on the 
environment, local communities and the local economy.    
 
a. What are we now consulting on and when? 
In a second phase of consultation commencing on 3 October 2013, PPL will seek 
views on: 
 
• the Project, including the location and layout of the proposed power generation 
plant within the 10ha site; 
• the options for the location and layout of the electrical connection compound; 
• the route options of the gas connection; and 
• the findings of the preliminary environmental studies including construction and 
operation impacts, for example, the visual impacts of the Project. 
 
Only after all inputs have been considered will designs be finalised and the 
application for a DCO be submitted.  
 
The consultation explained in this Statement will run until 7 November 2013. 
Comments about the Project must be received by PPL by this date.   
 
 
 
S47 SoCC 
September 2013                                                  8 
 
b. Who will we consult with? 
The Planning Act 2008 states that those ‘living in the vicinity of the land’ should be 
consulted.  We have discussed the scope of the consultation with Mid Suffolk District 
Council and Suffolk County Council and have identified Consultation Zones that form 
the basis of the consultation.  
 
PPL will carry out its consultation activities in two areas: a core consultation zone 
(CCZ) that equates to an approximate 3km radius from the Project and an outer 
consultation zone (OCZ) that equates to an approximate radius 10km.  
 
The CCZ has been designed to include the main population areas in the vicinity of 
the site that have the potential to be impacted by the Project and expected to have 
the greatest interest in the Project, namely the town of Eye and the villages of Mellis, 
Yaxley and Palgrave as well as the town of Diss, which is slightly further afield at 
4km from the site.   The zone includes all or parts of the following parish council 
areas: Eye, Yaxley, Mellis, Brome & Oakley, Palgrave, Stuston, Thornham Parva, 
Braiseworth and Burgate.  
 
 
S47 SoCC 
September 2013                                                  9 
 
Communities within the OCZ will be informed about the Project (via newspaper 
advertisements, posters, media coverage and contact with local parish councils and 
relevant local organisations) and given the opportunity to comment on the plans.  
The outer zone includes the main population areas of Stradbroke and Dickleburgh.   
 
PPL does not anticipate that the communities and businesses that lie within the OCZ 
will be significantly impacted by the Project’s construction, operation and 
maintenance, although PPL recognises that they may be interested in it.  Outside the 
two zones, there may well be others interested in PPL’s plans. They will also be 
reached through local/regional newspaper advertising and media coverage (print, 
broadcast and social media). All feedback received will be considered. 
 
c.  How will we consult?  
PPL will seek and receive people’s views through a number of activities: 
• Public exhibitions will be held at five locations within the CCZ;  
• A leaflet will be delivered to households, businesses and institutions in the CCZ, 
and made available at the main office of Mid Suffolk District Council in Needham 
Market, local libraries and other civic community venues in the area. It will give 
background on the Project, the consultation process and how individuals can 
engage in it.  The leaflet will be made available at libraries in the OCZ; 
• These local libraries and the main office of Mid Suffolk District Council (High 
Street, Needham Market IP6 8DL – 01449 724500) will host copies of the 
Statement of Community Consultation, and from 3 October will also host the 
leaflet, the PEIR and the non-technical summary : 
Local Libraries (opening times vary) 
Ipswich County Library, Northgate Street Ipswich IP1 3DE, 01473 263820 
Diss Library, Church Street, Diss IP22 4DD, 01379 642609 
Eye Library, Buckshorn Lane, Eye IP23 7AX, 01379 870515 
Ixworth Library, Village Hall, High Street, Ixworth IP31 2HH, 01359 231493 
Stradbroke Library, Court House, Queens Street, Stradbroke IP21 5HG,  
01379 384768 
 
 
S47 SoCC 
September 2013                                                  10 
 
• The leaflet and other information about the Project will be made available in other 
formats (e.g. large print or braille) and languages upon request; 
• A website (www.progresspower.co.uk) provides information on the Project as well 
as access to documents including, from 3 October, the PEIR and non-technical 
summary, and provides visitors the opportunity to ask questions or make 
comments online; 
• An e-mail address to which individuals can write; 
• A Freepost address (Freepost RTEY-JYYB-ERSR, Progress Power Ltd, 49 York 
Place, Edinburgh, EH1 3JD) to which people can send questions or comments; 
• PPL will also notify the local community about the Project and the consultation 
events via posters on local noticeboards, newspaper advertisements and media 
coverage;  
• In addition, PPL will contact a broad spectrum of local stakeholders. These will 
include elected representatives, local community, special interest groups 
(including those “hard to reach groups” such as the young, elderly and the 
disabled), and local business groups. PPL will provide them with information on 
the Project and undertake briefings where appropriate. 
 
 
 
Individuals and organisations wishing to respond should include their name and an 
address. Responses may be made public, subject to data protection laws. 
  
Comments made at all stages of the consultation process will be recorded and 
carefully considered by PPL as part of the process of preparing the final proposals 
for its application to the Planning Inspectorate.  
 
 
 
 
S47 SoCC 
September 2013                                                  11 
 
 
KEY DATES 
 
Thursday,12 September  Statement of Community Consultation published 
Thursday, 3 October 
Consultation period starts 
 
PUBLIC EXHIBITIONS 
Friday, 11 October 
1430-1830  
Hoxne Village Hall 
St Edmund’s Village Hall, Goldbrook, Hoxne, IP21 
5AN 
Saturday, 12 October 
0900-1300 
Mellis Memorial Village Hall 
Mellis Common, Mellis, Eye, IP23 8DW 
Monday, 14 October  
1600-2100 
The Park Hotel 
29 Denmark Street, Diss, Norfolk IP22 4LE 
Tuesday, 15 October  
1500-2000 
Cornwallis Arms  
Rectory Road, Brome, Eye, IP23 8AJ 
Friday, 18 October 
1200-1730 
Saturday, 19 October 
0900-1300 
Eye Community Centre   
Magdalene Street, Eye, IP23 7AJ 
Thursday, 7 November 
Consultation period closes 
Q1 2014 
DCO 
application 
submitted 
and 
examination 
timetable published  
 
Contact details 
PPL welcomes queries and comments: 
Website:  
www.progresspower.co.uk 
Email:  
info@progresspower.co.uk 
Freepost: 
Freepost RTEY-JYYB-ERSR,  
Progress Power Ltd, 49 York Place, Edinburgh, EH1 3JD 
Phone: 
01603 417722 
