Drax Group 
Safety, Health and 
Wellbeing Policy
At Drax, safety is our top priority and at the 
heart of everything we do. 
 
We all have a responsibility to ensure the 
health, safety and wellbeing of our people, 
our assets and the environment. 
 
Our OneSafeDrax vision is to ensure that 
everyone - regardless of location or role - 
goes home at the end of every day safe and 
well, that our assets are well maintained 
and operated safely, and that we minimise 
any negative impact we may have on our 
communities and the environments where 
we operate.
This Group Safety, Health and Wellbeing 
Policy sets out what we’ll achieve, and each 
business unit will reflect how they will enact 
this in their safety, health and wellbeing 
implementation statements. 
Together, we all share responsibility for the 
safety, health and wellbeing of ourselves and 
our colleagues.
Please also refer to our Process Safety Policy.
Page 1 of 2
We care about what matters…
We’ll create a work environment that  
promotes the importance of everyone’s  
health and wellbeing.  
We’re committed to preventing  
work-related injury and ill-health,  
by creating a safe workplace.  
We’ll implement occupational safety activities 
which protect colleagues through reducing risks 
and establish a supportive environment where 
we all feel confident to stop work and intervene 
in unsafe situations. 
We’ll include process safety in our designs and 
operations, and we’ll operate and maintain our 
plants, offices and equipment in a safe and 
responsible manner.
www.drax.com
We’re a ‘can do’ kind of place…
We’ll make sure we apply systematic ways 
to identify risks, and a hierarchy of control to 
mitigate them. 
We’ll fully comply with all applicable safety, 
health and wellbeing requirements, legal and 
otherwise, wherever we conduct business and 
wherever we undertake work activities for Drax.  
We’ll demonstrate visible leadership, with clear 
accountabilities and responsibilities for safety, 
health and wellbeing performance at all levels of 
the organisation. 
We’ll encourage participation, and always 
recognise and reward positive behaviours.
We see things differently…
We’ll seek out fresh perspectives to proactively 
identify hazards and reduce, assess and rethink 
risks, and how we control them. 
We’re always learning, so we can improve the 
effectiveness and efficiency of our safety, 
health and wellbeing management systems.  
We’ll assess and mitigate potential safety 
health and wellbeing impacts of organisational 
and technical changes by a structured 
management process.  
We all share responsibility for the safety, health 
and wellbeing of ourselves and our colleagues.
We listen carefully…
We’ll consult, and seek participation from, 
colleagues on our risks so we can proactively 
look for ways to improve our performance. 
We’ll communicate regularly with our internal 
and external interested parties and work 
collaboratively with them to develop and share 
innovative and sustainable solutions that help 
achieve our shared vision.
We do what we say we’ll do… 
We’ll make sure our managers understand and 
fulfil their safety, health and wellbeing duties. 
Our objectives are risk-based, targeted, 
measurable and timebound, and we’ll integrate 
these into our business and project planning.  
Regular reviews of performance will help us 
identify opportunities for continual improvement. 
We’ll provide training and instructions so that 
everyone is able to understand what health and 
safety risks within their working environment 
might affect them. 
We’ll make sure everyone has the appropriate 
skills and competence to safely carry out the 
job that’s expected of them.
DG-HSE-POL-1101        Version 1.2        Implementation Date 01/05/23        Review Date 01/05/24
Signed by Will Gardiner, CEO and Philip Cox, Drax Group Plc Board Chair - May 2023
Page 2 of 2
