 
 
The Millbrook Power  
(Gas Fired Power Station) Order 
 
6.2 Environmental Statement Appendices – Volume 
F Appendix 5.1 CHP Statement 
 
Planning Act 2008 
The Infrastructure Planning  
(Applications: Prescribed Forms and Procedure) Regulations 2009 
 
PINS Reference Number:  
 
EN010068 
Document Reference: 
 
 
6.2 
Regulation Number: 
5(2)(a) & Infrastructure Planning 
(Environmental Impact Assessment) 
Regulations 2009 
Author: 
 
 
 
 
WSP 
 
Revision 
 
Date  
 
Description  
 
0 
 
 
October 2017 
Submission Version  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Millbrook Power Project Environmental Statement 
Technical Appendices 
 
CHP Statement 
 
 
 
 
 
DESIGN NOTE ON COMBINED HEAT AND 
POWER 
 
 
SEPTEMBER 2017 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Type of document (final) 
 
 
Project no: 70032619 
Date: September 2017  
 
 
 
 
– 
WSP | Parsons Brinckerhoff 
Manchester Technology Centre 
Oxford Road, Manchester, M1 7ED 
 
www.wsp-pb.com 
 
MILLBROOK POWER PLANT 
DESIGN NOTE ON COMBINED HEAT 
AND POWER  
Millbrook Power Ltd. 
iii 
Millbrook Power Plant 
WSP | Parsons Brinckerhoff 
Millbrook Power Ltd. 
Project No 70032619 
 
Q U A L I T Y  M A N A G E M E N T  
ISSUE/REVISION 
FIRST ISSUE 
REVISION 1 
REVISION 2 
REVISION 3 
Remarks 
2017 Update 
 
 
 
Date 
 
 
 
 
Prepared by 
Alex Foden 
 
 
 
Signature 
 
 
 
 
Checked by 
Ignacio Martin 
Garcia 
 
 
 
Signature 
 
 
 
 
Authorised by 
Brian Sibthrop 
 
 
 
Signature 
 
 
 
 
Project number 
70032619 
 
 
 
Report number 
 
 
 
 
File reference 
 
 
 
 
 
 
iv 
 
Millbrook Power Plant 
WSP | Parsons Brinckerhoff 
Millbrook Power Ltd. 
Project No 70032619 
 
September 2017 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
ABBREVIATIONS .......................................................................................1 
GLOSSARY OF KEY TERMS .....................................................................2 
1 
INTRODUCTION ...........................................................................6 
2 
PROJECT DESCRIPTION ............................................................6 
3 
PURPOSE OF THIS DESIGN NOTE ON CHP .............................7 
4 
REQUIREMENT FOR CONSIDERATION OF CHP IN 
APPLICATIONS FOR DEVELOPMENT CONSENT ORDERS ....7 
5 
COMPATIBILITY WITH PROVISION OF CHP .............................9 
5.1 
FEASIBILITY .................................................................................................. 9 
5.2 
MEETING FUTURE HEAT REQUIREMENTS ............................................... 10 
5.3 
PROVISIONS FOR ENSURING FUTURE HEAT DEMAND CAN BE 
EXPLOITED .................................................................................................. 11 
6 
POSSIBILITIES FOR CHP .........................................................12 
6.1 
INITIAL CHP INVESTIGATION ..................................................................... 12 
7 
CONCLUSIONS ..........................................................................15 
 
 
 
F I G U R E S  
FIGURE 1 APPROXIMATE TOTAL HEAT LOAD WITHIN A 10 KM RADIUS AROUND 
THE PROJECT SITE .................................................................... 12 
FIGURE 2 TOTAL HEAT LOADS WITHIN THE CHP SEARCH AREA ........................... 13 
 
 
 
1 
 
Millbrook Power Plant 
WSP | Parsons Brinckerhoff 
Millbrook Power Ltd. 
Project No 70032619 
 
September 2017 
ABBREVIATIONS   
 
 
 
 
 
ABBREVIATION 
DESCRIPTION 
CCGT 
Combined Cycle Gas Turbine 
CHP 
Combined Heat and Power 
CHP – R 
CHP Ready Guidance for Combustion and Energy from Waste Plants 
CM 
Capacity Mechanism 
DCO 
Development Consent Order 
DECC 
Department for Energy and Climate Change 
EA 
Environment Agency 
GT 
Gas Turbine 
GTG 
Gas Turbine Generator 
Ha 
Hectare 
HCA 
Homes and Communities Agency 
km 
Kilometres 
kV 
Kilovolt 
LCA 
Landscape Character Assessment 
LCPD 
Large Combustion Plant Directive 
LEPs 
Local Enterprise Partnerships 
MWe 
Mega Watt Electrical 
NSIP 
Nationally Significant Infrastructure Project 
MPL 
Millbrook Power Limited 
RGE 
Reciprocating Gas Engine 
OCGT 
Open Cycle Gas Turbine 
2 
 
Millbrook Power Plant 
WSP | Parsons Brinckerhoff 
Millbrook Power Ltd. 
Project No 70032619 
 
September 2017 
GLOSSARY OF KEY TERMS 
 
TERM 
ABBREVIATION 
DESCRIPTION 
Peaking plant 
n/a 
Used to generate electricity for peak load electrical demand or 
shortfalls of electricity supply. For this project Peaking plants 
are defined as those that may operate up to 1,500 hours per 
annum. 
The Project 
n/a 
The Millbrook Power Project, comprising the following principal 
elements: 
 
1) 
A new Power Generation Plant 
2) 
A new Electrical Connection; and 
3) 
A new Gas Connection. 
 
The Power Generation Plant, Gas Connection and Electrical 
Connection are referred to as the Project. 
Project Site 
n/a 
This includes the Power Generation Plant Site, Electrical 
Connection Site, Gas Connection Site and construction 
access/laydown and future maintenance access/laydown 
areas.  
 
The Project Site corresponds to the limits of the draft 
Development Consent Order (the Order Limits). 
Generating Equipment 
n/a 
Gas Turbine Generator and Balance of Plant which are 
located on the Generating Equipment Site. 
Power Generation Plant 
Site 
n/a 
One of the three principal Project Site areas. The area within 
which the Power Generation Plant development will occur.  
Nationally Significant 
Infrastructure Project 
n/a 
The Project constitutes a Nationally Significant Infrastructure 
Project (NSIP) by virtue of s.14(1)(a) and s.15 of the Planning 
Act 2008 (PA 2008) which include within the definition of a 
NSIP any onshore generating station in England or Wales of 
50 MWe capacity or more. 
The proposed DCO 
Application 
n/a 
The application made under s.37 of the Planning Act 2008 to 
the Secretary of State (SoS) to seek consent for the Project, 
as required under s.31 of the Planning Act 2008.  
APFP Regulations 
n/a 
The Infrastructure Planning (Applications: Prescribed Forms 
and Procedure) Regulations 2009, as amended, which 
prescribe various matters in connection with the making of an 
application for development consent under the Planning Act 
2008. 
Three phases of the entire 
lifecycle of the Project 
 
n/a 
There are three phases – Construction, Operation, and 
Decommissioning.  
- 
Construction of the Project will take approximately 22 
months depending on the final choice of plant 
selected.  
- 
Upon Commissioning, the Power Generation Plant 
will be operating on a commercial basis (‘Operation’). 
It is designed to have an operational life of up to 25 
years, after which it could be decommissioned or re-
powered depending on factors such as the nature of 
the electricity market and energy mix at the time.  
- 
Decommissioning would comprise of the removal of 
all Power Generation Plant items and restoration of 
the Power Generation Plant Site. It is likely that some 
underground structures (e.g. gas and electrical 
connections) would be left in situ to avoid any 
adverse environmental impacts. 
Stack 
n/a 
The structure by which the exhaust gases and waste heat are 
emitted to the atmosphere. Typically, the GTG unit would have 
3 
 
Millbrook Power Plant 
WSP | Parsons Brinckerhoff 
Millbrook Power Ltd. 
Project No 70032619 
 
September 2017 
its own dedicated stack. Its height would be between 30 m-35 
m and would contain a silencer to reduce noise emissions. 
The exhaust gases would be subject to emissions control 
abatement. 
Demineralised Process 
Water Tank 
n/a 
Required to store process water which will be used as make 
up for the GTG. High purity (demineralised) process water will 
be delivered by tanker to the Power Generation Plant Site and 
stored in a single Demineralised Process Water Tank. 
Fire Water Tank 
n/a 
Designed to comply with the relevant fire regulations and 
installed together with fire pumps, hose reels, fire hydrants and 
portable extinguishers. 
A Control Building 
n/a 
Required in order to monitor the plant operation and house 
plant controls.  Within the Power Generation Plant site. 
A Workshop and a Store 
n/a 
To store certain strategic and routine maintenance spares and 
to provide a facility for carrying out minor maintenance of the 
plant. 
Security Infrastructure 
n/a 
Infrastructure designed to maintain a secure and safe 
environment within the Project Site. 
Lighting infrastructure, 
roadways and parking 
n/a 
Suitable lighting for safety, security and maintenance access, 
along with access, turning, loading and parking areas for 
workers’ vehicles and operational vehicles.  
Administration building 
and Office 
n/a 
Housing administration and welfare functions and related 
personnel. Situated within the Power Generation Plant Site. 
Telemetry apparatus 
n/a 
For the remote control of equipment, measurement or 
collection of data. 
A Switchyard 
n/a 
Containing one transformer and other plant required to 
manage the transmission of electricity: These transform the 
alternating current generated by the GTG into a higher output 
voltage to enable export to the National Grid. Situated within 
the Power Generation Plant Site. 
A Natural Gas Receiving 
Station and Compound 
n/a 
Situated within the Power Generation Plant Site. This contains 
a PIG receiving facility, isolation valve and control and 
instrumentation kiosk. Its role is to receive the imported gas 
from the NTS, before it is fed to the GTG under the right flow 
and pressure conditions. 
Combined Cycle Gas 
Turbine 
CCGT  
Gas plant technology system comprising Gas Turbine(s) 
fuelled by natural gas, a Heat Recovery Steam Generator(s) 
utilising heat from the Gas Turbine exhaust gases, and a 
steam turbine plant with associated condensing system. 
Combined Heat and 
Power 
CHP 
A cogeneration power station capable of supplying power to 
the National Grid and also heat to local heat users (such as 
industry or leisure) through a direct connection to waste heat / 
steam produced as part of the combustion process. 
CHP Ready Guidance for 
Combustion and Energy 
from Waste Plants 
CHP -R 
The Environment Agency (EA) has published its CHP-Ready 
Guidance, which applies to applications for Environmental 
Permits for new plants under the Environmental Permitting 
(England and Wales) Regulations 2010 for: 
 
New combustion power plants (referred to as power plants) 
with a gross rated thermal input of 50 MW or more; and, 
 
New Energy from Waste plants with a throughput of more than 
3 tonnes per hour of non-hazardous waste or 10 tonnes per 
day of hazardous waste. 
Capacity Mechanism 
CM 
Changes to the electricity market mean that there are risks to 
the future security of electricity supplies. Government will 
therefore legislate to introduce a Capacity  
Market. The Capacity Market will provide an insurance policy 
against the possibility of future blackouts by providing financial 
incentives to ensure we have enough reliable electricity 
capacity to meet demand.  
Development Consent 
Order 
DCO  
Consent by a UK Government Minister for a Nationally 
Significant Infrastructure Project. A DCO can incorporate or 
override the need for a variety of consents which would 
4 
 
Millbrook Power Plant 
WSP | Parsons Brinckerhoff 
Millbrook Power Ltd. 
Project No 70032619 
 
September 2017 
otherwise be required for a development, including planning 
permission. A DCO can also include rights of compulsory 
acquisition. A DCO is made in the form of a Statutory 
Instrument. 
Department for Energy 
and Climate Change 
DECC  
UK Government department responsible for policy and 
maintaining international and industry relations to support a 
continuous UK energy supply, reduce greenhouse emissions 
and adapt to climate change.  
Environment Agency  
EA 
Executive Non-departmental Public Body responsible to the 
Secretary of State for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs. 
Gas Turbine 
GT  
A type of internal combustion engine comprising compressor, 
combustion chamber and turbine. Air is drawn into the 
compressor section and compressed. Natural gas is mixed 
with the compressed air in a combustion chamber where it is 
ignited. The high pressure, high temperature air then enters 
the turbine where it expands back to atmospheric pressure air 
and turns the turbine to create electricity. 
Gas Turbine Generator 
GTG 
A GTG comprises a Gas Turbine and Generator and 
associated auxiliaries such as air inlet filter, coolers, 
equipment skids and control panels. 
 
The GTG may be an ‘industrial’ type unit which are suited to 
long operational hours and are more efficient but less flexible 
than smaller class units. To achieve up to 299 MWe, MPL 
would propose to use 1 individual industrial GTG. 
 
Hectare 
Ha 
A unit of area (10,000  m2  / 2.471 acres) 
Homes and Communities 
Agency 
HCA 
The Homes and Communities Agency is the national housing 
and regeneration agency for England, with a capital 
investment budget of around £4bn for the period 2012-15. We 
contribute to economic growth by helping communities to 
realise their aspirations for prosperity and to deliver high-
quality housing that people can afford. 
Kilometres 
km  
Measurement of distance (1000 metres). 
Local Enterprise 
Partnerships 
LEPs 
Local enterprise partnerships are partnerships between local 
authorities and businesses. They decide what the priorities 
should be for investment in roads, buildings and facilities in the 
area. 
Mega Watt Electrical 
MWe  
Measurement of electrical power. 
Nationally Significant 
Infrastructure Project 
NSIP  
The Project constitutes a Nationally Significant Infrastructure 
Project (NSIP) by virtue of s.14(1)(a) and s.15 of the Planning 
Act 2008 (PA 2008) which include within the definition of a 
NSIP any onshore generating station in England or Wales of 
50 MWe capacity or more. 
Millbrook Power Limited 
MPL  
A special purpose vehicle which has been set up to develop 
the proposed Project and has been established by Drax Group 
plc. Drax is planning to develop flexible gas fired generation 
assets to support the UK Government drive to a low carbon 
economy.  Drax has its project dedicated personnel sourced 
through an experienced management company, Stag Energy, 
founded in 2002. 
Reciprocating Gas Engine RGE  
An engine that employs the expansion of hot gases to push a 
piston within a cylinder, converting the linear movement of the 
piston into the rotating movement of a crankshaft to generate 
power. 
Open Cycle Gas Turbine 
OCGT  
Gas plant technology system comprising Gas Turbine(s) 
fuelled by natural gas. The hot exhaust gases are routed 
directly to the stack without passing through a secondary 
steam turbine. 
 
The generating technology used for the Power Generation 
Plant 
5 
 
Millbrook Power Plant 
WSP | Parsons Brinckerhoff 
Millbrook Power Ltd. 
Project No 70032619 
 
September 2017 
 
 
 
6 
 
Millbrook Power Plant 
WSP | Parsons Brinckerhoff 
Millbrook Power Ltd. 
Project No 70032619 
 
September 2017 
1 
INTRODUCTION 
1.1.1 
Combined Heat and Power (CHP) is the simultaneous generation of electrical power and usable 
heat in a single process, and is also known as co-generation. A CHP station may either supply 
steam direct to customers or capture heat from low-pressure steam after it has been used to drive 
electricity generating turbines, for hot water or space heating purposes. The heat can also be 
used to drive absorption chillers, thereby providing cooling.  
1.1.2 
CHP is considered advantageous as generating electrical power and heat together is more 
efficient than generating them separately. Therefore it can deliver a reduction in both primary 
energy usage and carbon emissions.  
2 
PROJECT DESCRIPTION 
2.1.1 
Millbrook Power Limited (MPL) is promoting a new gas fired peaking power generation plant on 
land that is partially located within ‘The Rookery’. The Rookery comprises two former clay pits 
(Rookery North and Rookery South, covering an area of some 210 ha and separated by an east-
west spine of unexcavated clay. The Rookery is situated in the Marston Vale between Milton 
Keynes and Bedford. It lies predominantly within the administrative area of Central Bedfordshire 
Council (CBC) although it also falls, in part, within the administrative area of the adjacent Bedford 
Borough Council (BBC). The power generation plant will be designed to provide an electrical 
output of up to 299 megawatts (MWe) and will be fuelled by natural gas.  
2.1.2 
The power generation plant will use one open cycle gas turbine generator (OCGT). The main 
generating equipment comprises a singular gas turbine generator (GTG). The GTG consists of an 
inlet air filter, an air compressor, combustion chamber, power turbine, exhaust silencer and 
generator.   
2.1.3 
Air is compressed in the compressor of the Gas Turbine (GT) and gaseous fuel is injected into the 
combustion chamber where the fuel burns producing hot, high-pressure gases. These gases 
expand across the turbine blades of the GT, which drives both the compressor and the electrical 
generator. The hot exhaust gases are then routed via a silencer to the stack and emitted to the 
atmosphere.  
2.1.4 
It is important to note that for the proposed, open cycle operation of the gas turbine, no steam will 
be produced as part of the electricity generation process.  
2.1.5 
The plant will be a ‘Peaking Plant’ operating for up to 1500 hours per year, its function being to 
support the national electricity transmission system by providing additional temporary generation 
at times of peak demand or to compliment the intermittent nature of renewable energy sources. 
 
 
7 
 
Millbrook Power Plant 
WSP | Parsons Brinckerhoff 
Millbrook Power Ltd. 
Project No 70032619 
 
September 2017 
3 
PURPOSE OF THIS DESIGN NOTE ON 
CHP 
3.1.1 
As OCGT technology has been selected for the Project, this Design Note on CHP summarises 
why further investigation into use of waste heat is not being undertaken, and provides evidence 
as to why the proposed thermal generating station should be excluded from being CHP-Ready.   
4 
REQUIREMENT FOR CONSIDERATION 
OF CHP IN APPLICATIONS FOR 
DEVELOPMENT CONSENT ORDERS 
4.1.1 
In accordance with the Planning Act 2008 (as amended by the Localism Act 2011), the Secretary 
of State is required to determine an application for an order granting development consent (DCO) 
for an energy Nationally Significant Infrastructure Project (NSIP) in accordance with the 
‘Overarching National Policy Statement for Energy (EN-1)’ (2011, DECC) and the relevant 
technology-specific national policy statement (‘National Policy Statement for Fossil Fuel Electricity 
Generating Infrastructure (EN-2)’ in the case of this Project). 
4.1.2 
The requirement or otherwise for the consideration and/or implementation of CHP, is detailed 
within Section 4.6 ‘Consideration of Combined Heat and Power (CHP)’ of EN-1.   
4.1.3 
EN-1 states (at paragraph 4.6.6) that “under Guidelines issued by DECC (then DTI) in 2006 [the 
Combined Heat and Power (CHP) Guidance1], any application to develop a thermal generating 
station under Section 36 of the Electricity Act 1989 must either include CHP or contain 
evidence that the possibilities for CHP have been fully explored to inform the [Secretary of 
State]’s consideration of the application,” and that the, “...same principle applies to [DCO 
applications] under the Planning Act 2008.” 
4.1.4 
EN-1 continues: “The [Secretary of State] should have regard to DECC’s Guidance, or any 
successor to it, when considering the CHP aspects of applications for thermal generating 
stations.”   
4.1.5 
The CHP Guidance (at paragraph 24) acknowledges, “...that decisions on major new power 
station investments, including the location and anticipated load duty of the station (e.g. base load, 
mid-merit, peak-lopping, support to local industry, etc.), will primarily be driven by the market...” 
                                                   
 
 
 
1  Guidance on Background Information to Accompany Notifications under Section 14 (1) of the 
Energy Act 1976 and Applications under Section 36 of the Electricity Act 1989, December 
2006. 
8 
 
Millbrook Power Plant 
WSP | Parsons Brinckerhoff 
Millbrook Power Ltd. 
Project No 70032619 
 
September 2017 
4.1.6 
Paragraph 4.6.7 of EN-1 requires that developers, “...consider the opportunities for CHP from 
the very earliest point and it should be adopted as a criterion when considering locations 
for a project.”  The value of early consultation is also emphasised, in respect of the process of 
identification of potential heat users (customers), with bodies such as: the Homes and 
Communities Agency (HCA); Local Enterprise Partnerships (LEPs); and, Local Authorities.  
4.1.7 
In addition, as part of the examination process for the DCO application, the Environment Agency 
(EA) will be consulted on the details of the Project and the content of the application, including the 
developer’s consideration of CHP.   
4.1.8 
Since publication of the CHP Guidance, the Environment Agency (EA) has published its own 
‘CHP Ready Guidance for Combustion and Energy from Waste Plants’ (2013) (CHP-R Guidance).  
This guidance states (in Section 3.3) that: “When consulted by [the Planning Inspectorate] ... will 
highlight the need for the plant to be CHP or CHP-R and will make reference to [the CHP-R 
Guidance].” 
4.1.9 
However, the CHP-R Guidance also develops further the considerations of paragraph 24 of the 
CHP Guidance in that, “...it is recognised that in some cases (such as peaking plant...) the 
provision of CHP would not be compatible with the original operating regimes / intentions.” 
4.1.10 
Insert 1 of the CHP-R Guidance illustrates the recommended assessment process for CHP and 
CHP-R and how this guidance should be used. Step 1 of this process is to determine whether the 
new plant is required to be CHP or CHP-R. Where this is not the case, the developer is required 
to demonstrate that the provision of CHP is not compatible with the proposed operating regime / 
intention. 
4.1.11 
EN-1 (at paragraph 4.6.8) states: “If the proposal is for thermal generation without CHP, the 
applicant should: 
 Explain why CHP is not economically or practically feasible for example if there is a more 
efficient means of satisfying a nearby domestic heat demand; 
 Provide details of any potential future heat requirements in the area that the station could 
meet; and 
 Detail the provisions in the proposed scheme for ensuring any potential heat demand in the 
future can be exploited. 
4.1.12 
The requirements for the provision of information identified in the above policies and guidance are 
addressed in the remainder of this document 
 
9 
 
Millbrook Power Plant 
WSP | Parsons Brinckerhoff 
Millbrook Power Ltd. 
Project No 70032619 
 
September 2017 
5 
COMPATIBILITY WITH PROVISION OF 
CHP 
5.1 
FEASIBILITY 
ECONOMIC FEASIBILITY 
5.1.1 
A primary requirement of a viable and effective CHP scheme is that it should be able to service 
the heat demand of any user connected to (and reliant on) the scheme. 
5.1.2 
The application of the CHP concept to a OCGT peaking power station is not economically feasible 
because the profile for the generation of electrical energy from the station cannot be guaranteed 
to coincide with the required heat demand profile of any potential consumer.  
5.1.3 
Because of its role in supporting the national electricity transmission system at times of peak or 
unexpected demand (including forced outages of other thermal generating stations), and in 
complementing the intermittent nature of renewable energy sources, the load regime for the 
OCGT station will be inherently unpredictable. Periods of electricity generation from the Project 
will typically be for 1-2 hours on occasional days, and of limited duration over the year.  Given the 
proposed peaking role for the station, operation will be for no more than 1500 hours per year out 
of a potential 8760 hours in a year.  
5.1.4 
Heat demands, where they exist in the locality, are, by contrast, generally steady and persist over 
some 7 months of the year for residential heating or for the full year for industrial or commercial 
uses.  
5.1.5 
Any agreement drawn up between MPL and local customers for the supply of heat from the 
Power Generation Plant would normally guarantee that heat would be available for certain periods 
of the year and in sufficient quantities to satisfy the agreed demand. This agreement would also 
normally include financial penalties if heat was not able to be supplied when contractually obliged 
to do so. 
5.1.6 
Therefore, the disconnect between the relatively constant demands for heat from residential and 
industrial users and the inherently unpredictable supply from a peaking station such as this 
means that the CHP model is not applicable in this situation. 
TECHNICAL FEASIBILITY 
5.1.7 
Conventionally, gas fired CHP plants configured as a CCGT usually provide heating via the 
provision of steam extracted from the existing steam cycle. As discussed previously, OCGTs do 
not produce steam as part of the electricity generating process and therefore the provision of CHP 
capability would require the addition of steam raising plant. The provision of CHP capability to a 
plant of this type would mean a significant increase in capital expenditure and additional technical 
challenges.  
5.1.8 
Compared to CCGT plant, OCGT units typically have a smaller capital cost per MW installed. This 
is largely because CCGT plants are more complex in their operation, requiring much more plant 
and equipment (e.g. a heat recovery steam generator (HRSG) and other steam raising plant) to 
operate. Although this increased capital cost is offset by gains in efficiency, CCGT plants are also 
typically designed to operate at continuous load, with fewer shut-downs and start-ups.  
10 
 
Millbrook Power Plant 
WSP | Parsons Brinckerhoff 
Millbrook Power Ltd. 
Project No 70032619 
 
September 2017 
5.1.9 
CCGT plants typically have efficiencies of around 55-60% (compared with 35-40% for OCGT), 
maximum gains in efficiency, however, are only realised when the plant has reached its operating 
temperature and is running continuously at full load. 
5.1.10 
The Power Generation Plant will be a peaking plant which would operate for up to 1500 hours per 
year. Most likely, this would be for short periods of time (typically 1-2 hours). Given that it can take 
up to 1 hour for a CCGT plant to reach full load, MPL considers that the benefits in efficiencies 
which can be achieved by using a CCGT plant are minimal and do not justify the additional capital 
costs of these plants, especially when considering the very short operating windows of the 
proposed OCGTs. 
5.1.11 
As OCGT plants are less complex in operation than CCGT or Reciprocating Gas Engine plant, 
they are also cheaper to construct, operate and maintain. 
5.1.12 
A further reduction in both cost and visual impact is realised when using a OCGT plant without 
steam raising plant. In a CCGT plant, the hot exhaust gases are routed through a HRSG, where 
they generate steam, which then drives a steam turbine. The extraction of energy from the hot 
exhaust gases to generate steam, means that they leave the HRSG stack at approximately 100°C  
5.1.13 
In comparison, the hot exhaust gases in a OCGT plant are discharged direct to the atmosphere at 
approximately 400°C-600°C. This means that the flue gases discharged from a OCGT plant are 
significantly hotter than those discharged from a CCGT plant, and therefore the gases are much 
more buoyant. Therefore a much lower stack is required for a OCGT plant to achieve the same 
dispersion height and rate of its exhaust gases as a CCGT plant. 
5.1.14 
Maintaining a low capital cost for the Project is essential as the Project will bid into the 
Government’s newly proposed Capacity Mechanism (CM). Plants selected to operate within the 
CM are chosen based on their ability to deliver reliable power at times of peak demand at the 
most economically advantageous price.  
5.1.15 
Therefore, significantly increasing capital expenditure on the Project severely limits the ability to 
successfully bid into the CM. If a higher bid price was successful, then these increased costs 
would be directly passed to the consumer.  
5.1.16 
The use of OCGT technology is preferable at the Generating Equipment Site as water 
requirements are significantly less than a CCGT, and could be met with the occasional delivery of 
water by tanker.  
5.1.17 
Based on the technical discussion above, it is considered that the proposed Project, comprising 
OCGTs, is not suitable to act as CHP plant or need to comply with the requirements of CHP-R.  
5.2 
MEETING FUTURE HEAT REQUIREMENTS 
5.2.1 
Industry, commerce and public services are all identified as being prospective users of CHP with 
the largest, most economic opportunities expected to be found in the industrial sectors where 
there are often large requirements for process heat.  
5.2.2 
Opportunities however, are also identified in commerce (e.g. hotels, leisure centres, large 
corporate buildings) and public services (e.g. hospitals, universities, prisons, defence installations, 
administrative offices and ancillary college or hospital accommodation). There is also sometimes 
the potential for CHP where heat can be used in absorption chilling to deliver cooling in industry, 
commerce and the public sector. 
11 
 
Millbrook Power Plant 
WSP | Parsons Brinckerhoff 
Millbrook Power Ltd. 
Project No 70032619 
 
September 2017 
5.2.3 
Efficient CHP plants are usually designed to meet the demands of an identified heat load. 
Electrical power generation is utilised, where applicable for local process plant, and the balance 
exported to the grid.  As noted previously, the Power Generation Plant could only service an 
intermittent heat source. 
5.2.4 
If a satisfactory steady heat load exists, the potential benefits of CHP schemes can be realised 
with electricity being generated in direct proportion to the heat load. The size of a CHP scheme, 
however, is determined by the local heat load which can be supplied at a common point. 
5.2.5 
For this reason the majority of CHP schemes are small (less than 5 MWe). These small units can 
offer high fuel utilisation when fully supplying the heat load. However during periods when the 
heat load is low or absent, the electrical efficiency of these units is rather low compared to 
conventional power stations. 
5.2.6 
In addition, due to the high cost of transporting heat in insulated pipes, experience indicates that it 
is unusual for a CHP scheme to be viable if the heat consumers are spaced apart and/or located 
far from the heat source. Normally the heat users would need to be within 1 to 2 km of the heat 
source. 
5.3 
PROVISIONS FOR ENSURING FUTURE HEAT DEMAND CAN BE 
EXPLOITED 
5.3.1 
Because of the unpredictable operating regime required of a peaking power station to flexibly 
support national grid demand, the viability of supplying occasional heat to future consumers in the 
area is negligible. 
5.3.2 
Moreover, the inclusion of provisions to ensure that future heat demand can be exploited in the 
equipment proposed for Power Generation Plant would increase capital expenditure of the Project 
further.  
5.3.3 
Such provisions could include space in the plant layout to install steam raising plant after the GT 
exhaust, however, this is not possible due to the constrained nature of the site. Such future space 
provisions would require further land to be purchased from the landowner. 
5.3.4 
Expansion of the site to the south is not possible because of the walls of the Rookery South Pit. 
 
 
12 
 
Millbrook Power Plant 
WSP | Parsons Brinckerhoff 
Millbrook Power Ltd. 
Project No 70032619 
 
September 2017 
6 
POSSIBILITIES FOR CHP 
6.1 
INITIAL CHP INVESTIGATION 
6.1.1 
As per Chapter 5 of the Environmental Statement, a detailed feasibility assessment was 
undertaken which considered a range of sites around England and Wales to support gas fired 
power generation plants. 
6.1.2 
To understand the likely heat demands in the area local to the identified Project Site, an 
assessment of the DECC online heat map2 was carried out.  
6.1.3 
Figure 1 and Figure 2 below show the results of the assessment of DECCs Online Heat Map tool. 
The EA guidance suggests that for all plants less than 300 MW a search area of 10 km is used. 
No individual large industrial heat loads were identified within this area. 
Figure 1 Approximate total heat load within a 10 km radius around the Project site 
 
 
                                                   
 
 
 
2 http://chptools.decc.gov.uk/developmentmap/ 
13 
 
Millbrook Power Plant 
WSP | Parsons Brinckerhoff 
Millbrook Power Ltd. 
Project No 70032619 
 
September 2017 
6.1.4 
Figure 2 shows the potential heat loads within the 10 km search area. It shows that the largest 
potential heat users are domestic with an approximate requirement of 491 MW. The second 
largest potential heat users are ‘Warehouses’ with an approximate requirement of 22 MW; the 
third largest potential heat users are ‘Small Industrial’ with an approximate requirement of 19 MW. 
Remaining heat requirements of other potential users in the area range from less than 1 MW to 
approximately 13 MW. 
Figure 2 Total heat loads within the CHP search area 
 
6.1.5 
Although there appears to be a large heat load in the area for domestic heat users, this is unlikely 
to represent a viable CHP opportunity based on, principally, the discussions presented earlier in 
this document under ‘Feasibility’ regarding intermittent loads from peaking plant and distance 
from the site. In addition to these discussions, however, the comparatively low density and age of 
housing in the region would make installing a new district heating network technically challenging 
and thus have associated cost implications.  
6.1.6 
The results of studies undertaken by MPL, which were informed by the changes as a result of the 
Electricity Market Reform and the Government consultations on the delivery mechanisms 
provided by the Energy Act 2013, have formed the basis for the selection of the peaking plant 
concept for the Project. 
6.1.7 
The Project is being developed to provide vital support to the national electricity transmission 
system as electricity demand increases and the nature of supply of electricity changes to 
incorporate a likely greater share of renewables in the generation mix. 
 
14 
 
Millbrook Power Plant 
WSP | Parsons Brinckerhoff 
Millbrook Power Ltd. 
Project No 70032619 
 
September 2017 
6.1.8 
Therefore, whilst consideration of the potential for the provision of CHP was considered as part of 
the site selection studies, the intentions for the Project meant that the provision of CHP was not 
the principal factor in the site selection process. It is, however, considered that this is in 
accordance with paragraph 2.2.1 of NPS EN-2 which states: "it is for energy companies to decide 
which applications to bring forward and the government does not seek to direct applicants to 
particular sites for fossil fuel generating stations." 
 
 
15 
 
Millbrook Power Plant 
WSP | Parsons Brinckerhoff 
Millbrook Power Ltd. 
Project No 70032619 
 
September 2017 
7 
CONCLUSIONS 
7.1.1 
Based on the information above, it can be concluded that there are three prohibitive barriers to 
the application of CHP for the Project: 
 There is no existing regional heat market. From local searches, there are no suitable heat 
users of applicable scale available and no heat users able to accept the unpredictable supply 
of heat available. 
 No potential future heat requirements in the area have been identified and none that would 
match the operational pattern of a Peaking power station. 
 The intermittent and peaking modes of operation of OCGT are incompatible with the likely 
continuous demands of heat users. Because of the lack of applicable heat demands, 
provisions in the proposed scheme for exploiting any potential heat demand in the future can 
be excluded. 
7.1.2 
Accordingly, this Design Note on CHP demonstrates that the Project does not need to undertake 
further investigation of CHP for the proposed thermal generating station, and provides evidence 
as to why the proposed thermal generating station should be excluded from being CHP- Ready.   
 
 
 
 
