NET-ZERO AND GEOSPHERIC 
RETURN: ACTIONS TODAY FOR 
2030 AND BEYOND
BY S. JULIO FRIEDMANN, ALEX ZAPANTIS, BRAD PAGE,  
CHRIS CONSOLI, ZHIYUAN FAN, IAN HAVERCROFT, HARRY LIU, 
EMEKA OCHU, NABEELA RAJI, DOMINIC RASSOOL,  
HADIA SHEERAZI, AND ALEX TOWNSEND
SEPTEMBER 2020
ABOUT THE GLOBAL CCS INSTITUTE
The Global CCS Institute (the Institute) is an international think tank whose mission is to 
accelerate the deployment of carbon capture and storage (CCS), a vital technology to 
tackle climate change. As a team of almost 40 professionals, working with and on behalf 
of our Members, we drive the adoption of CCS as quickly and cost effectively as possible; 
sharing expertise, building capacity and providing advice and support so CCS can play its 
part in reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Our diverse international membership includes 
governments, global corporations, private companies, research bodies and non-governmental 
organisations; all committed to CCS as an integral part of a net-zero emissions future. The 
Institute is headquartered in Melbourne, Australia with offices in Washington DC, Brussels, 
Beijing, London and Tokyo.
 
Visit us at www.globalccsinstitute.com  
 @GlobalCCSInstitute      @GlobalCCS  
 Global CCS Institute    
ABOUT THE CENTER ON GLOBAL ENERGY POLICY
The Center on Global Energy Policy provides independent, balanced, data-driven analysis 
to help policymakers navigate the complex world of energy. We approach energy as an 
economic, security, and environmental concern. And we draw on the resources of a world-
class institution, faculty with real-world experience, and a location in the world’s finance and 
media capital. 
 
Visit us at www.energypolicy.columbia.edu 
 
        
  @ColumbiaUenergy  
 
          
     
ABOUT THE SCHOOL OF INTERNATIONAL AND PUBLIC AFFAIRS
SIPA’s mission is to empower people to serve the global public interest. Our goal is to foster 
economic growth, sustainable development, social progress, and democratic governance 
by educating public policy professionals, producing policy-related research, and conveying 
the results to the world. Based in New York City, with a student body that is 50 percent 
international and educational partners in cities around the world, SIPA is the most global of 
public policy schools. 
 
For more information, please visit www.sipa.columbia.edu
Columbia University CGEP
1255 Amsterdam Ave. 
New York, NY 10027
energypolicy.columbia.edu
        
  @ColumbiaUenergy  
NET-ZERO AND GEOSPHERIC 
RETURN: ACTIONS TODAY FOR 
2030 AND BEYOND
BY S. JULIO FRIEDMANN, ALEX ZAPANTIS, BRAD PAGE,  
CHRIS CONSOLI, ZHIYUAN FAN, IAN HAVERCROFT, HARRY LIU,  
EMEKA OCHU, NABEELA RAJI, DOMINIC RASSOOL,  
HADIA SHEERAZI, AND ALEX TOWNSEND
SEPTEMBER 2020
NET-ZERO AND GEOSPHERIC RETURN: ACTIONS TODAY FOR 2030 AND BEYOND
ENERGYPOLICY.COLUMBIA.EDU | SEPTEMBER 2020   | 3
This volume has benefited from detailed feedback and suggestions from three anonymous 
external expert reviewers and multiple anonymous Columbia University reviewers, who 
contributed substantially towards improving the quality of this report, and to whom we  
are grateful. 
Writing this report during the coronavirus pandemic of 2020 strained the boundaries of work 
and home, and thus, we would like to acknowledge the support of our families and colleagues 
during this particularly difficult and unprecedented time.
This policy paper represents the research and views of the authors. It does not necessarily 
represent the views of the Center on Global Energy Policy. The paper may be subject to 
further revision. This work was made possible by support from the Center on Global Energy 
Policy. More information is available at https://energypolicy.columbia.edu/about/partners.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
NET-ZERO AND GEOSPHERIC RETURN: ACTIONS TODAY FOR 2030 AND BEYOND
4 | CENTER ON GLOBAL ENERGY POLICY | COLUMBIA SIPA
Dr. Julio Friedmann is a Senior Research Scholar at the Center on Global Energy Policy at 
Columbia University. He is one of the most widely known and authoritative experts in the US 
on carbon removal (CO2 drawdown from the air and oceans), CO2 conversion and use (carbon-
to-value), and carbon capture and sequestration. Dr. Friedmann recently served as Principal 
Deputy Assistant Secretary for the Office of Fossil Energy at the Department of Energy, where 
he was responsible for DOE’s R&D program in advanced fossil energy systems, carbon capture 
and storage (CCS), CO2 utilization, and clean coal deployment. He has also held positions at 
Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, including Senior Advisor for Energy Innovation and 
Chief Energy Technologist. He is also the CEO of Carbon Wrangler, LLC, is a Distinguished 
Associate at the Energy Futures Initiative, and serves as a Special Advisor to the Global CCS 
Institute. Dr. Friedmann received his bachelor of science and master of science degrees from 
the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, followed by a PhD in Geology at the University of 
Southern California.
Alex Zapantis joined the Global CCS Institute in 2016 and is accountable for managing the 
Institute’s consultancy services. He has over 12 years continuous experience working on issues 
related to climate change and CCS.
The first 12 years of Alex’s career were in Government and the university sector focussed on 
radiation management and safety, nuclear policy and environmental regulation and policy. His 
expertise is focussed on energy and climate change policy and carbon capture and storage, 
strategy development and risk analysis, industry and government engagement, public policy and 
regulation, industry and commercial analysis, external relations and media and communications.
Alex has a Degree in Applied Science with a major in Physics, a Graduate Diploma in Health & 
Medical Physics and an MBA.
Brad Page joined the Institute as CEO in August 2011, bringing extensive knowledge and 
experience on Australian and international energy and climate policy issues. 
Prior to the Institute, Brad spent almost eight years as CEO of the Energy Supply Association 
of Australia, steering the organisation through a period of significant transformation while 
representing members on a wide range of energy market and climate change policy issues. 
During much of this time he chaired the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research 
Organisation’s (CSIRO) Energy and Transport Sector Advisory Council. 
Brad’s earlier career was in the Australian Public Service, working across a range of portfolios 
culminating in direct involvement at the senior executive level with the development, 
implementation and subsequent review and improvement of Australia’s national electricity and 
domestic natural gas markets. 
Brad graduated with a BA (Administration) from the University of Canberra and in 2009 studied 
the economics of climate change at Cambridge University as a British Council Chevening Fellow. 
ABOUT THE AUTHORS
NET-ZERO AND GEOSPHERIC RETURN: ACTIONS TODAY FOR 2030 AND BEYOND
ENERGYPOLICY.COLUMBIA.EDU | SEPTEMBER 2020   | 5
In early 2018 Brad was appointed to the UK Government’s CCUS Council and has also recently 
joined the Special Advisory Group to the Board of the Norwegian CCS Research Centre.
Chris Consoli is a senior consultant working internationally in the low carbon energy industry 
with technical expertise in the geological storage of CO2. 
He has focused his profession on carbon capture and storage (CCS) development and 
deployment. With over 10 years’ experience, Chris has led multi-disciplinary teams to assess 
CO2 storage prospects and has worked on the full breadth of storage assessments from site 
evaluation through to multi-national initiatives. 
With expertise in climate change, energy systems, and in the oil and gas industry, Chris is also an 
experienced geomodeller and sedimentologist, with a background in palaeontology. 
Chris has been part of a variety of advisory boards and lectures at universities in Melbourne 
and around the world and is always keen to promote, discuss and share his experience and 
knowledge. Chris received his PhD from Monash University in Melbourne, Australia.
Zhiyuan Fan is a Research Associate at the Center on Global Energy Policy. He supports 
CGEP’s Carbon Management Research Initiative, focusing on low-carbon industrial systems, 
including low-carbon fuels and processes, carbon capture and storage, and CO2 use/
recycling. Prior to joining SIPA, he worked as a graduate student researcher at the Sustainable 
Engineering Lab in Columbia University’s Mechanical Engineering Department, focusing 
on energy system modeling and optimization under deep renewable penetration, and 
electrification of heavy road transportation.
Ian Havercroft is the Senior Consultant – Legal and Regulatory at the Global CCS Institute, and 
is based in Melbourne. Ian leads the Institute’s work on all legal and regulatory matters, including 
the delivery of technical reports and analysis focusing on carbon capture and storage within 
future energy technologies and climate change scenarios. 
Ian has over 10 years’ experience of working on CCS legal and regulatory matters and has 
acted as an expert reviewer or an adviser to several organisations, including the International 
Energy Agency and the IEA Greenhouse Gas R&D Programme. Ian has published in peer-
reviewed journals, produced technical and non-technical reports on CCS law and regulation and 
presented his work in a number of international fora. 
Ian was an Honorary Visiting Senior Research Fellow at University College London’s Faculty of 
Laws between 2011 and 2017, and is currently a member of the Advisory Board of Melbourne 
University’s Centre for Resources, Energy and Environmental Law (CREEL). His main research 
interests lie in environmental and energy law, with a particular emphasis on Carbon Capture 
and Storage (CCS) and the law and policy of climate change.  He holds undergraduate and 
postgraduate degrees in law and was called to the Bar of England and Wales in 2002.
Harry Liu is the CCS project advisor at the Institute. His responsibility is to develop the 
technical knowledge database of global CCS facilities, and to support and produce the 
technical contents for the Institute’s flagship publication, the annual Global Status of Carbon 
Capture and Storage (CCS) report. 
NET-ZERO AND GEOSPHERIC RETURN: ACTIONS TODAY FOR 2030 AND BEYOND
6 | CENTER ON GLOBAL ENERGY POLICY | COLUMBIA SIPA
Prior to joining the Institute, Harry was a postdoctoral research fellow at the University of 
Newcastle for carbon capture and utilisation. Harry holds a Bachelor of Science, and a Master 
of Science from Wuhan University (China) and a PhD jointly awarded from Commonwealth 
Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation (CSIRO) and the University of South Australia.
Emeka Richard Ochu2 is a Research Associate at the Center on Global Energy Policy at 
Columbia University. He supports CGEP’s Carbon Management Research Initiative (CaMRI), 
focusing on financial and policy analyses for application of carbon capture, use, and storage 
(CCUS) to power and industrial facilities. Prior to joining CGEP, Ochu was an Energy Research 
Economist at the Central Bank of Nigeria, where he published research on the electricity and 
gas subsector of the economy and served on various national energy projects. Previously, 
he worked in consulting and banking as an Energy Finance and Investment Lead, analyzing 
energy investment opportunities and providing finance for viable renewable energy projects 
in energy poor communities in Sub-Saharan Africa. Ochu holds a master of public affairs from 
Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs and a master of science in 
energy economics from the University of Aberdeen, United Kingdom, as well as a bachelor of 
science with honors in economics from Abia State University, Nigeria.
Nabeela Raji is the Research Analyst at the Institute and is based in Melbourne. She provides 
research and analysis support to the broader Commercial team for various knowledge 
outputs such as reports, publications and the CCS intelligence database of the Institute. 
Nabeela is an experienced researcher who, before joining the Institute, has worked in 
government and not-for-profit organisations in research roles relating to various public 
policy and advocacy issues in Australia and Sri Lanka. Nabeela holds an undergraduate 
degree in Law from the University of Colombo and a Bachelor of Science in Economics and 
Management from the University of London.
Dominic Rassool is the Senior Consultant – Policy and Finance at the Global CCS Institute, and 
is based in London, UK. With over five years’ experience working in the climate finance sector, 
Dominic has acted as a technical expert or an adviser to several projects, including ones 
developed by the United Nations Development Programme. He has significant experience in 
the design and development of climate change mitigation projects across the Middle East, 
North Africa and Western African states as well as Small Island Developing States, specialising 
in funding from multi-lateral funds, namely the Global Environment Facility (GEF) and the 
Green Climate Fund (GCF). 
Dominic has broad experience developing renewable energy projects in high-risk 
environments and has deep expertise in policy and financial de-risking to support investments 
in climate mitigation projects. 
He holds an undergraduate degree in Sustainable Built Environment from the University of 
Nottingham and a Masters degree in Environmental Design Engineering from UCL. 
Hadia Sheerazi is the Program Manager of the Carbon Management Research Initiative 
(CaMRI), a new program at the Center focused on speeding up decarbonization and reducing 
NET-ZERO AND GEOSPHERIC RETURN: ACTIONS TODAY FOR 2030 AND BEYOND
ENERGYPOLICY.COLUMBIA.EDU | SEPTEMBER 2020   | 7
the risk and impact of climate change through carbon management. Hadia’s research 
and advocacy work focuses on the intersections of sustainability, climate change, carbon 
management, disaster risk reduction (DRR), gender, and peace and security. She has served as 
an Ambassador for the ONE Campaign, Girl Rising, Half the Sky, and A World at School, and 
was a two-term Youth Delegate at the United Nations Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC) 
Youth Forums and World Bank Youth Summits. Hadia was named a “Global Champion for 
Women’s Economic Empowerment” by UN Women’s EmpowerWomen Team and invited 
to the inaugural United State of Women (USOW) Summit by the White House Council 
on Women and Girls as a “Nominated Changemaker.” She is a former Net Impact Climate 
Fellow, United Nations SDSN Local Pathways Fellow, Youth Expert in the Commonwealth 
Youth Climate Change Network (CYCN), and Honorary Advisory to the NGO Committee on 
Sustainable Development at the United Nations. Hadia is the first winner of the United Nations 
Development Programme-administered King Hamad Youth Empowerment Award to Achieve 
the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) for contributions towards achieving targets of 
the UN SDGs, and received the Morton Deutsch Award for Social Justice for her independent 
research project on inequalities faced by women and girls in sports. 
Hadia has served on the Board of the Young Women’s Council of the High Water Women 
Foundation, was a mentor in Girls Write Now, Inc., an Amplifier for Girl Be Heard, and member 
of the Grants Advisory Committee of The New York Women’s Foundation. She is currently 
a member of the Steering Committee of the Women’s Foreign Policy Group (WFPG) Young 
Professionals Network. She holds a dual MSc. in Sustainability Management and Conflict 
Resolution from Columbia University, and graduated as Class Speaker and Student Marshall 
with a BA in Political Science and Economics from St. John’s University.
Alex Townsend Alex is responsible for providing economic analysis and advice at the Global CCS 
Institute. He joined the Institute in September 2018 and is based in the London office in the UK. 
Prior to joining the Institute, Alex worked in the UK Government for nine years as part of the 
Government Economic Service. During this time, he worked on a range of energy and climate 
change topics, including household energy efficiency, wholesale gas and electricity markets, 
climate change adaptation, and the rollout of smart electricity and gas meters. He also worked 
on trade policy and the assessment of applications for grant funding for large industrial projects 
during the early stages of his career in the UK Government. 
Alex holds a BSc (First) in Economics from Cardiff University and MSc (Distinction) in Economics 
from Birkbeck College, London.
NET-ZERO AND GEOSPHERIC RETURN: ACTIONS TODAY FOR 2030 AND BEYOND
8 | CENTER ON GLOBAL ENERGY POLICY | COLUMBIA SIPA
Executive Summary
Infrastructure
Projects
Market-Alignment Through Policy
Introduction
The Arithmetic of Net-Zero
Centrality of Carbon Capture
CO2 Reduction and Mitigation
CO2 removal
The Role of the Geosphere in Establishing Carbon Balance
2030 Goal, Arithmetic and Requirements
Time to Build
Storage Resource Development
Role of Law and Regulation
Projects: The Core Measure of Progress and Policy-Finance Focus
Role of Institutional Investors
Policy Options
Valorizing CO2
Costs and Avoided Costs
Ecosystem Support
Beyond 2030
Summary - It’s About Time
References
Notes
TABLE OF CONTENTS
09
09
09
10
11
13
17
17
20
25
25
27
31
32
34
35
37
37
39
41
44
46
47
53
TABLE OF CONTENTS
NET-ZERO AND GEOSPHERIC RETURN: ACTIONS TODAY FOR 2030 AND BEYOND
ENERGYPOLICY.COLUMBIA.EDU | SEPTEMBER 2020   | 9
The case for rapid and profound decarbonization has never been more obvious or more 
urgent, and immediate action must match growing global ambition and need. An important 
new component of this discussion is the necessity of achieving net-zero global greenhouse 
gas emissions for any climate stabilization target. Until net-zero emissions are achieved, 
greenhouse gas will accumulate in the atmosphere and oceans, and concentrations will grow, 
even with deep and profound emissions reduction, mitigation, and adaptation measures. This 
places a severe constraint on human enterprise: any carbon removed from the earth must be 
returned to the earth.
To manage this aspect of the global carbon budget, carbon capture and storage (CCS) must 
play a central role. In particular, CCS will be important in two major roles:
● 
To manage emissions from existing, long-lived capital stock. This is especially true for 
rapid emissions reduction from three kinds of facilities: heavy industrial sector (i.e., 
cement, steel, and chemicals); production of near–zero-C hydrogen in abundance; and 
recently built power plants, in particular coal and gas facilities in Asia.
● 
To enable large-scale rapid carbon dioxide (CO2) removal through engineered systems. 
This will include approaches like direct-air capture with storage (DACS), bioenergy 
with CCS (BECCS), and carbon mineralization.
Due to the intense urgency of the climate crisis, global emissions must drop 50 percent 
by 2030 and reduce a further 50 percent from that level by 2040 to achieve net-zero by 
midcentury—this is the science-based target of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate 
Change (IPCC) 1.5oC report and the “well below 2oC” scenario ratified in the Paris Accord. 
Thus, reducing global emissions rapidly and profoundly, plus gigatonne-scale CO2 removal, 
are the only ways to achieve these climate goals. The demands of 2030 place additional 
urgency on laying the foundations for growing deployment of CCS to achieve net-zero global 
emissions at lowest cost and greatest speed. A set of actions are essential:
Infrastructure
CO2 transportation and storage networks today help illustrate the scale of what is required. 
Estimates suggest that the 8,000 kilometers (5,000 mi) of existing CO2 pipelines in North 
America must be expanded by an additional 35,000 kilometers (21,000 mi) to maximize 
emissions reduction. Similarly, industrial hubs and clusters, now under development in Europe, 
China, and the Middle East, can accelerate the deployment of CCS at reduced cost. More 
storage sites must be assessed and approved, and options like CO2 shipping must be explored 
for costs, opportunities, and technology requirements.
Projects
Large capital projects like CCS projects and related infrastructure require 6–10 years from 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
NET-ZERO AND GEOSPHERIC RETURN: ACTIONS TODAY FOR 2030 AND BEYOND
10 | CENTER ON GLOBAL ENERGY POLICY | COLUMBIA SIPA
conception to commissioning. Currently, there are 19 large-scale industrial and two large-scale 
CCS power facilities operating, with combined capacity of about 40 million tonnes of CO2 per 
annum, and an additional 20 projects under development. The International Energy Agency 
(IEA), IPCC, and many other groups estimate CCS projects must mitigate 1.5 Gigatonnes 
per annum (Gtpa) by 2030 to stay on a 1.5oC increase climate trajectory—an increase by a 
factor of 35 from today. This places urgency on commencing construction and completing 
infrastructure to serve the volume of CCS projects needed, and it is likely that additional 
human capital is needed to serve this essential market.
Market-Alignment Through Policy
Durable policies that align market dynamics and attract private capital will be essential—
most importantly, policies that enable project finance. These can include tax credits, feed-in 
tariffs, rate recovery, construction or procurement mandates, grants, projects of common 
interest, carbon pricing, contracts for differences, regulatory emissions caps, or combinations 
of these policies. Some additional modest policy measures (e.g., modification of the London 
Protocol; innovation policy and Research, Development, and Deployment, or RD&D, support; 
clarification of long-term liability requirements) could play important roles in facilitating 
market adoption.
By focusing on 2030 targets as a stepping-stone to midcentury net-zero targets, governments 
can select what actions, investments, and policies can best serve domestic and global needs. 
Similarly, investments and policies made over the next decade will lay the foundation for 
continued decarbonization to achieve global net-zero emissions by midcentury.
NET-ZERO AND GEOSPHERIC RETURN: ACTIONS TODAY FOR 2030 AND BEYOND
ENERGYPOLICY.COLUMBIA.EDU | SEPTEMBER 2020   | 11
The case for rapid and profound decarbonization has never been more obvious or more urgent. 
The consequences of unrestricted greenhouse gas emissions continue to manifest. As the 
atmospheric concentration of CO2 exceeds 415 parts per million (ppm) and the atmospheric 
load of CO2 approaches 1 trillion tonnes, the hottest decade on record is closing with the 
second-hottest year on record. Other chronic concerns, including wildfires, hurricanes, flooding, 
and extreme heat, are leading to widespread ecosystem damage and economic loss. Scientists 
predicted much of this over 30 years ago with surprising accuracy. The devastating wildfires 
in Australia, the bleaching of coral reefs, and the flooding associated with major storms and 
continued sea-level rise offer the starkest representation of what is at stake.
Against this backdrop, it is increasingly clear how profoundly the world has failed to meet 
this challenge. Carbon emissions continue to rise, despite enormous progress on efficiency 
and clean energy generation, especially in wind and solar. The global climate agreement 
made in Paris and signed in Marrakesh is far from sufficient, placing the world on a trajectory 
well above 3oC of warming (UNEP, 2019). While it was meant to be a first step leading to 
more ambitious targets, most countries are failing to meet their Nationally Determined 
Contributions (NDCs), and it is unclear how they will achieve even these modest initial 
goals (FEU-US, 2019). While some nations, notably in Europe, find that politics supports 
higher ambition, the same politics can run counter to achieving environmental goals, as 
evidenced by the EU’s recent climate deal with Poland (Strupczewski and Baczynska, 2019), 
retrenchment in Brazil with President Jair Bolsonaro (Diaz, 2019), continued investment in 
coal in India (Rathi, 2019; Bordoff, 2020), and other examples. Since the consequences of 
climate change are tied to the cumulative emissions in the atmosphere, every year of delay 
adds to our problem, making time the scarcest resource of all.
The IPCC 1.5oC report has highlighted the risks of further failure and made clear that we 
must achieve two specific, arithmetically binding targets to avoid the worst outcomes of 
climate change:
● 
Global net-zero emissions by midcentury, and
● 
Global net CO2 removal afterwards at the multi-gigaton scale.
The framework embodied by both of these targets is relatively new but now widely accepted. 
It also helps clarify a fundamental axiom of a successful energy transition and climate 
counterstrike: managing carbon emissions requires actually managing carbon emissions.
Above all, one thesis remains central to both CO2 reduction and climate restoration: 
withdrawals from the geosphere must be balanced by returns to the geosphere. Carbon 
stocks removed from Earth (the geosphere), past, present, and future, must be returned to the 
earth to balance the carbon and climate books for good. Said differently, the 2 trillion tonnes 
of CO2 pulled from underground will not fit into the biosphere, which was in balance before 
the Industrial Revolution.
INTRODUCTION
NET-ZERO AND GEOSPHERIC RETURN: ACTIONS TODAY FOR 2030 AND BEYOND
12 |  CENTER ON GLOBAL ENERGY POLICY | COLUMBIA SIPA
With this straightforward point in mind, the technologies and tools of carbon management 
have special relevance. Carbon capture and storage, deployed in many sectors, is a tool for 
CO2 reduction. Approaches like direct-air capture, CO2 mineralization, and bioenergy with CCS 
(BECCS)—technologies and approaches described in this report— are tools for CO2 removal.
Despite decades of economic and technical findings underscoring the importance of these 
approaches, they remain misunderstood and are often misrepresented as “experimental.”
● 
The core technology is mature: Industrial-scale CO2 capture has operated successfully 
since 1938, and geological storage of CO2 since 1972.
● 
The technology works on existing stock and new facilities: Carbon capture has 
already retrofitted steel, power, hydrogen, and other large facilities. This can accelerate 
decarbonization without premature retirement delay and takes advantage of existing 
capital stock. It also can serve to accelerate deployment of low-carbon hydrogen, low-
carbon biofuels, and CO2 removal technologies.
● 
Some supply chains are ready, while others require more support: Industrial-scale CO2 
capture units are commercially available from multiple vendors. Commercial geological 
storage expertise and systems operate around the globe. However, scaling up these 
systems will involve deployment of infrastructure, cultivation of human capital, and 
expanding operating systems through investment.
● 
Policy support is required: In some parts of the globe, regulatory systems operate 
well. Other parts of the globe require improved regulation. However, policies that align 
markets and help finance projects are inadequate for the task of global deployment. 
The arithmetic requirements and technical opportunities of a net-zero global energy system 
are clearest when considering the road to a midcentury goal. In this, 2030 stands out as 
a specific milestone on that journey, in part due to the framework of the Paris Accord 
and the opportunities and limits to managing new and existing capital stocks. Ten years 
is sufficient time to create and modify policy, plan large-scale capital investments, and 
build infrastructure necessary to achieve midcentury decarbonization. This next decade 
will be central to any successful climate strategy, and respecting the primacy of carbon 
management is essential for success.
NET-ZERO AND GEOSPHERIC RETURN: ACTIONS TODAY FOR 2030 AND BEYOND
ENERGYPOLICY.COLUMBIA.EDU | SEPTEMBER 2020   | 13
First and foremost, atmospheric concentrations of CO2 will continue to grow and global 
warming will increase until the world achieves net-zero emissions. By definition, achieving net-
zero emissions requires that any emissions that are not reduced must be removed. Emissions 
reduction and removal are distinct in nature and are different from emissions avoided:
● 
Avoided emissions are those that might have occurred but do not (for example, by not 
building a steel mill due to overcapacity or by building a solar PV power station instead 
of a natural gas power plant).
● 
Reduced emissions are existing emissions that no longer occur. Emissions may be 
reduced by many means, including conservation, efficiency, CCS, or shutting down or 
displacing existing emissions sources.
● 
Removed emissions are those that were emitted and are retrieved from the air and 
oceans. These can be from natural processes (e.g., mineral weathering), managed 
ecosystems (e.g., afforestation) or engineered systems (e.g., BECCS).
To achieve net-zero emissions, all emissions trajectories must decrease (Figure 1). However, 
if there are any residual emissions that are not reduced or mitigated, net-zero requires an 
equal mass of CO2 removal. In many scenarios and descriptions, residual emissions are 
considered “hard-to-abate,” meaning either the cost is extremely high (e.g., for aviation) or 
the technology does not exist (e.g., application of fertilizer). This is the core arithmetic of a 
net-zero emissions plan: any residual CO2 emissions must be balanced by an equal amount of 
CO2 removal.
CO2emissions - CO2removals = 0
THE ARITHMETIC OF NET-ZERO
NET-ZERO AND GEOSPHERIC RETURN: ACTIONS TODAY FOR 2030 AND BEYOND
14 |  CENTER ON GLOBAL ENERGY POLICY | COLUMBIA SIPA
Figure 1: Representative pathway to net-zero and net-negative emissions. Orange 
line represents the emissions trajectory as the sum of the green and blue trajectories.    
Source: J. Wilcox et al. 2020. 
However, most analysis finds that it is not possible to achieve zero emissions soon enough to 
stabilize global average temperature below 2oC through reduction alone (e.g., Rogelj, 2018). 
In particular, the IPCC found that to achieve emissions consistent with a 2oC limit to human-
caused warming, would likely require 85 percent emissions reduction by 2050 and annual 
removal of gigatonnes CO2 before 2100 (IPCC, 2014a). Another important scenario is to aim 
at limiting human-caused warming to 1.5oC, and this requires that 100 percent emissions 
reduction and annual removal of 5–10 gigatonnes of CO2 must occur around midcentury 
(IPCC, 2018).
By 2050: CO2emissions(residual) - CO2removal < 0
After 2050: CO2emissions(residual) - CO2removal = (-5 to -10 Gt/a)
NET-ZERO AND GEOSPHERIC RETURN: ACTIONS TODAY FOR 2030 AND BEYOND
ENERGYPOLICY.COLUMBIA.EDU | SEPTEMBER 2020   | 15
When it comes to climate change arithmetic, the numbers are staggering and hard to 
understand or internalize. To help understand the numbers, it is useful to understand the 
nature of a gigatonne (Gt).
● 
All the people on Earth combined weight roughly 1/2 a gigatonne. 
● 
The global annual production of plastic is about 1 gigatonne.
● 
Global consumption of meat is approximately 1/3 a gigatonne.
Unsurprisingly, managing many gigatonnes of emissions is extremely daunting. For 
example, the global oil market is roughly 5 Gt of material. Removing 5 Gt of CO2 from the 
air and oceans requires an industry the size of the oil and gas industry operating in reverse.
The Scale of the Problem
This core arithmetic produces difficult corollaries. For example, the hard-to-abate sectors 
commonly are expressed as an irreducible annual sum of 8–10 Gt CO2 equivalence (IPCC, 
2014; ETC, 2018). The persistence of residual emissions is founded on the lack of alternatives, 
especially for land-use emissions, shipping, and aviation. Although some analysis has laid the 
foundation for innovation and progress in these arenas (ETC, 2018), the lack of realistic plans 
for deployment means that these emissions persist stubbornly across almost all analyses. 
Other difficult corollaries include:
● 
Achieving an 85 percent reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by midcentury 
requires a 50 percent emissions reduction each decade between now and 2050 (e.g., 
Rogelj et al., 2018). Given the long capital lives of existing infrastructure and facility 
stock, it is not clear how this might be achieved.
● 
A 1.5oC trajectory requires 5–10 Gt removal of CO2 by 2050 and greater volumes 
thereafter. The National Academies (NASEM, 2018) find that this is not possible 
through reforestation alone given the limits of land and current technology.
● 
Any failure to reduce emissions must be balanced by CO2 removal. For example, a 
failure to scale-up renewables, efficiency improvements, or electric vehicles will lead to 
a larger removal burden (FEU-US, 2019).
The core arithmetic produces an uncomfortable finding: existing capital stocks will overwhelm 
a 1.5oC or 2oC carbon budget. The IEA (2018) analyzed the global energy infrastructure either 
built or under construction. Assuming a natural capital life for facilities, just the existing 
capital stocks would emit 95 percent of the CO2 emissions allowable under their sustainable 
development scenario, which is roughly 2oC of warming, and a 1.5oC budget was not possible 
without 100–1,000 Gt of CO2 removal by 2100.
This leads to a straightforward arithmetic truth: achieving climate goals requires (a) premature 
retirement of existing facilities at an enormous scale, (b) many gigatonnes of annual 
abatement using CCS, or (c) both.
NET-ZERO AND GEOSPHERIC RETURN: ACTIONS TODAY FOR 2030 AND BEYOND
16 |  CENTER ON GLOBAL ENERGY POLICY | COLUMBIA SIPA
It is important to note that this is not a new or recent finding. On the contrary, the simple 
arithmetic of climate change makes CCS a central plank of abatement, like efficiency or 
renewables. In 2004, two very different sources reached this conclusion, both in Science. 
Socolow and Pacala (2004) argued that climate change impacts could be avoided through 
deployment of many “wedges” of technology. In their analysis, CCS featured prominently as 
a key pathway. The same year, then-US Secretary of Energy Spencer Abraham wrote that 
the costs of achieving climate targets were very sensitive to the presence or absence of CCS 
in analysis and that the costs of achieving the same goals without CCS were enormous. The 
IPCC reached the same finding in 2014, indicating that without CCS, the costs of achieving 2o 
C stabilization would be roughly 140 percent higher than without. The IEA reached the same 
conclusion in 2016 and 2018.
NET-ZERO AND GEOSPHERIC RETURN: ACTIONS TODAY FOR 2030 AND BEYOND
ENERGYPOLICY.COLUMBIA.EDU | SEPTEMBER 2020   | 17
Given net-zero arithmetic and the urgency of climate change, two central roles emerge for 
CCS: CO2 reduction and CO2 removal. Reduction is a climate mitigation measure and involves 
preventing emissions from entering the atmosphere associated with existing systems. 
Removal is an additional set of measures that withdraws CO2 from the air and oceans directly 
as a way to balance residual emissions and ultimately to un-emit legacy carbon in the air and 
oceans and restore climate. The versatility of carbon capture and the functionally limitless 
carbon storage capacity of the geosphere allows CCS to play these key roles immediately, 
growing toward the 2030 timeframe.
CO2 Reduction and Mitigation
Heavy Industry—heat and process emissions
Reducing emissions in industry is one of the greatest challenges of reaching net-zero 
emissions. Industry is the basis of our modern society and is an essential source of economic 
growth, bringing financial benefits and job opportunities to communities around the world. 
While creating this wealth, industry produces nearly one-third of global greenhouse gases. 
The cement, iron and steel, and chemical sectors are the largest sources of industrial 
emissions. These industries provide a range of products that are vital to everyday life. Demand 
for the goods produced by industry is expected to grow in the future, driven by a growing 
population, increased living standards and economic growth.
Around one-quarter of industry CO2 emissions are process emissions that are inherent to 
production processes. For example, in cement production, 65 percent of emissions come from 
the calcination of limestone, a chemical process underlying cement production (ICEF, 2019). 
In addition, one-third of industry energy demand is for high-temperature heat, for which there 
are few mature alternatives to the direct use of fossil fuels (Friedmann et al., 2019).
Many regions of the world are planning to grow their industrial sectors, which will likely 
contribute to a rise in industry emissions without additional policy action. For example, the 
Indian government has set an ambition in its National Steel Policy 2017 to increase steel 
production from 122 million tonnes in 2015–16, to 300 million tonnes in 2030–31. The steel 
sector is central to economic development in India, contributing 2 percent to India’s GDP, 
and employing 0.5 million people directly and two million indirectly through supply chains. 
In Qatar, plans are in place to increase LNG production capacity from 77 million tonnes per 
annum today to 126 million tonnes per annum by 2027. The construction of coal-fired power 
plants continues, mostly in Asia, with nearly 600GW new capacity expected to be added by 
2030 (Cui et al., 2019). The IEA estimates industry CO2 emissions will rise by 11 percent, to 6.7 
gigatonnes of CO2 per year, without further climate mitigation policies (IEA, 2019).
CCS provides one of the most mature and cost-effective options for reducing emissions from 
industrial processes and high-temperature heat. Several reports, including from the Energy 
Transition Commission and the IEA, have concluded that achieving net-zero emissions in hard-
CENTRALITY OF CARBON CAPTURE
NET-ZERO AND GEOSPHERIC RETURN: ACTIONS TODAY FOR 2030 AND BEYOND
18 |  CENTER ON GLOBAL ENERGY POLICY | COLUMBIA SIPA
to-abate industry without CCS may be impossible and at best is much more expensive. 
CCS in the Power Sector
Achieving net-zero emissions by midcentury would not be possible without decarbonizing 
the power sector, which accounts for one-third of global CO2 emissions (IEA, 2019). The rapid 
deployment of renewable energy, associated with strong policies (like renewable portfolio 
standards and construction mandates in China and India) and dramatic cost reductions are 
positive contributors to success in reducing electricity emissions. That progress is grossly 
insufficient to achieve net zero by 2050, and existing coal and gas power systems continue 
to be built and are expected to operate through 2050 and beyond. Analysis shows that CCS 
provides both the fastest and cheapest pathway to deep decarbonization for these plants 
(IEA, 2020b). In many deep decarbonization scenarios, coal use reduces rapidly (Table 1).
Table 1: Coal utilization reductions assumed in IPCC Illustrative Pathways 
IPCC Illustrative Pathway to 1.5oC 
Pathway 1
Pathway 2
Pathway 3
Pathway 4
Reduction in primary energy from 
coal in 2030 compared to 2010
-78%
-61%
-75%
-59%
Reduction in primary energy from 
coal in 2050 compared to 2010
-97%
-77%
-73%
-97%
 
 Source: IPCC, 2018.
Actual trends are very different from those required by these scenarios. Although investment 
in fossil fuel power generation has fallen over the past decade, it received USD $120 billion 
in 2018 (IEA WEI, 2019) and the global coal and gas fleets continue to grow, more rapidly 
since the COVID-19 pandemic began (IEA, 2020a). These facilities have economic lives of 
decades and a large global fleet of coal- and gas-fired power stations are expected to remain 
in operation well past the middle of this century (IEA, 2020b). Most gas power plants operate 
for about 30 years, while coal-fired generation plants operate for 40–50 years, and this newly 
installed capacity will remain in operation through to 2060 without premature closure—CO2 
emissions from the global coal fleet are expected to approach 10GtCO2 in 2030 and exceed 
7GtCO2 in 2050 (Cui et al., 2019). If they operate, around 90 percent of those emissions must 
be captured and stored in 2030, and effectively all emissions must be captured and stored in 
2050 to achieve net-zero. If power production from the global coal fleet is only half what has 
been assumed in this simple illustrative analysis, approximately 85Gt of CO2 must be captured 
and stored from coal-fired power generation alone between 2030 and 2050 to be consistent 
with a 1.5oC climate outcome.
Clean Hydrogen
Hydrogen, as a fuel and feedstock, can play a significant role in the decarbonization of hard-
to-abate sectors, provided production is clean and with a low-carbon footprint. Hydrogen 
can be burned in turbines or be used in fuel cells to generate electricity and can fuel both 
NET-ZERO AND GEOSPHERIC RETURN: ACTIONS TODAY FOR 2030 AND BEYOND
ENERGYPOLICY.COLUMBIA.EDU | SEPTEMBER 2020   | 19
light and heavy-duty vehicles. Hydrogen can provide a source of domestic and industrial heat 
and is a feedstock for industrial processes and synthetic fuels (like ammonia). The virtue of 
hydrogen is that it produces zero carbon emissions at point of use. 
A clean hydrogen network of the future is quite different from today’s system in volume, 
emissions, and use. In 2018, around 70 Mt per annum of pure hydrogen was used, almost 
entirely for refining (38 Mt) and the production of ammonia (31 Mt). Less than 0.01 Mt of pure 
hydrogen was used in fuel cell electric vehicles.
● 
Currently, 97 percent of global hydrogen production is from unabated fossil fuels, 
around three-quarters from reforming natural gas and the rest from gasification of coal 
(IEA, 2019; GCCSI, 2020). This is sometimes called “gray” hydrogen, which currently 
emits 830 Mtpa.
● 
When fossil fuel emissions from hydrogen production are abated through CCS, 
there are either reduced or zero associated greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. This is 
sometimes called “blue” hydrogen.
● 
The remaining 2 percent of hydrogen is produced using water with electrolysis (IEA, 
2019). When the electricity supply comes from zero-emissions power sources (e.g., 
hydro, solar, wind, or nuclear) it is sometimes called “green” hydrogen.
According to the IEA (2019), less than 0.7 percent of hydrogen production today is from  
fossil plants equipped with CCS (blue hydrogen) or renewable energy via electrolysis  
(green hydrogen).
For net-zero progress by 2030 and net-zero targets by 2030, rapid scale-up of clean 
hydrogen production will prove critical. The “Mission Possible” report (ETC, 2018) stated 
that global hydrogen production needs to grow by between 80 to 95 percent per annum 
by 2050 to reach net-zero emissions. The Hydrogen Council identified near-zero hydrogen 
could deliver around 6 Gt of annual abatement in 2050. (Hydrogen Council, 2017). In this 
respect, scaling up production of clean hydrogen from fossil fuels with CCS is simple and 
cost advantaged. Low-carbon hydrogen has been produced at commercial scale through gas 
reforming or coal gasification with CCS since 1982 (Table 2). Five large-scale “blue” hydrogen 
facilities with CCS produce low-carbon hydrogen today and three are under construction, with 
a total annual capacity of 1.5 Mtpa hydrogen, capturing over 7 Mtpa CO2 (GCCSI, 2020).
NET-ZERO AND GEOSPHERIC RETURN: ACTIONS TODAY FOR 2030 AND BEYOND
20 |  CENTER ON GLOBAL ENERGY POLICY | COLUMBIA SIPA
Table 2: Hydrogen production facilities with CCS   
Facility
H2 Production Capacity 
(tonnes/day)
H2 Production Process
Operational 
Commencement
Enid Fertilizer
200 (in syngas)
Methane reformation
1982
Great Plains Synfuel
1,300 (in syngas)
Coal gasification
2000
Air Products
500 
Methane reformation
2013
Coffeyville
200 
Petroleum coke 
gasification
2013
Quest
900
Methane reformation
2015
Alberta Carbon Trunk 
Line - Sturgeon
240 
Asphaltene residue 
gasification
2020
Alberta Carbon Trunk 
Line - Agrium
800 
Methane reformation
2020
Sinopec Qilu
100 (estimated)
Coal/Coke gasification
2021 (planned)
 
 
In comparison, the largest operating renewable powered electrolyzer in Fukushima Japan can 
produce ~2.4 tons/day of clean hydrogen.1 The largest announced “green” hydrogen project 
to date, the Air Products-NEOM project in Saudi Arabia, would produce 650 tonnes of clean 
hydrogen using a combination of solar and wind (Air products, 2020) and shows both the 
promise and limits of “green” hydrogen production. The $7 billion project would supply 0.9 
percent of global demand today. Meeting potential future global clean hydrogen demand 
of 530 million tonnes per year using electrolysis would require more than 26,000 TWh2 of 
electricity—approximately equal to the total global combined electricity demand from all 
sectors in 2018 (IEA, 2019). 
In this context, CCS-enabled blue hydrogen adds speed and saves money. For the price of 
the Air Products-NEOM project, roughly 300 Mt CO2 could be captured and stored every 
year. Low-carbon hydrogen from fossil fuel with CCS is distinctly cost advantaged. Hydrogen 
made from fossil with CCS cost USD $1.50 –2.40/kg, compared to USD $4.00–7.45 for “green” 
hydrogen (IEA, 2019). Finally, when combined with biomass conversion, hydrogen production 
with CCS can remove CO2 from the atmosphere.
CO2 removal
As discussed, arithmetic demands that to achieve net-zero any residual annual emissions must 
be matched by an equal volume of CO2 removal. There are many approaches to CO2 removal, 
each of which has challenges (UNEP 2017, ICEF 2018). Three of those approaches require 
geological storage and return of CO2 to the geosphere: DACS, bioenergy with CCS (BECCS), 
and carbon mineralization (CMin). The National Academies (2018) estimate that ~75 percent 
of CO2 removal demanded of the carbon budgets requires these three approaches. Similarly, 
a recent report by Lawrence Livermore National Lab (2020) indicates that 80 percent of the 
NET-ZERO AND GEOSPHERIC RETURN: ACTIONS TODAY FOR 2030 AND BEYOND
ENERGYPOLICY.COLUMBIA.EDU | SEPTEMBER 2020   | 21
residual emissions identified by the state of California require geospheric return paired with 
CO2 removal (BECCS and DACS).
Direct-Air Capture with storage (DACS)
Although many consider DACS technology to be new, the core technology is not. Devices 
that scrub CO2 from air have operated since world-war II in submarines and since the 1960’s in 
spacecraft—as dramatized in the iconic scene from Apollo 13 (ICEF, 2018). Capturing CO2 from 
the air has become a climate mitigation strategy only recently, in part driven by increased 
urgency and prior failure to reduce emissions. Today, several companies operate DAC facilities 
and more provide options for CO2 removal services.
Deployment of DACS requires the process itself to have near-zero emissions. However, if 
these conditions are met, then large-scale DACS can avoid enormous costs associated with 
our climate targets and provide a pathway to climate restoration (Figure 2; Goldman Sachs, 
2020). NOTE: Arithmetic demands that failure in any other mitigation pathway, including 
efficiency, renewables, CCS, or reforestation, requires more DACS to balance the carbon 
budget. On this basis, and because DACS appears to have few technical, resource, or 
geographic limits, it can be considered a “backstop” technology to achieve climate goals.
NET-ZERO AND GEOSPHERIC RETURN: ACTIONS TODAY FOR 2030 AND BEYOND
22 |  CENTER ON GLOBAL ENERGY POLICY | COLUMBIA SIPA
Figure 2: Global marginal abatement cost curve for all greenhouse-gas emissions Dark-blue 
bars (conservation) represent substitution of emitting sources with non-emitting sources or 
efficiency measures. Pale-blue represents CCS on point sources. Green represent CO2 uptake 
from managed ecosystems.
Source: Goldman Sachs, 2020. 
A critical limitation of DAC is that the low concentration of CO2 in air (~410 ppm) requires 
both lots of energy and large contacting systems, which today result in high costs. It is clear 
that these costs can come down (NASEM 2018) and are likely to drop dramatically over 
the next 30 years given appropriate policy support for deployment and innovation (EFI, 
2019; Rhodium Group, 2019) with many experts agreeing on a total system cost of <$150/t 
sometime beyond 2030.
Biomass Energy with Carbon Capture and Storage (BECCS)
Biomass is the oldest energy supply used by humankind. The fundamental premise of BECCS 
is to combine CCS with bioenergy, in which biomass systems gather CO2 from the air and 
oceans, people harvest the energy through conversion, and the carbon is permanently 
returned to the geosphere. The core technology options, such as biomass gasification, are 
available today and used widely (e.g., wood-based biomass gasification under the German 
NET-ZERO AND GEOSPHERIC RETURN: ACTIONS TODAY FOR 2030 AND BEYOND
ENERGYPOLICY.COLUMBIA.EDU | SEPTEMBER 2020   | 23
Energiewende). One large BECCS facility, the ADM corn-ethanol project in Decatur, Illinois, 
currently removes ~1 Mt/year through fermentation and geological storage. The “Getting to 
Neutral” report on California’s emissions reduction strategy (LLNL, 2020) finds that ~100 
Mt/y of BECCS is the cost-preferred pathway for CO2 removal to achieve their state goals, 
representing ~70 percent of the state’s needs.3  
The core limitations to BECCS deployment today are cost and scale. Most biofuels and 
biomass-based power systems enter markets well above commercially competitive prices, 
even without the additional cost and energy requirements of CCS. In addition, the land 
required to grow large volumes of bioenergy crops places limits on what can be realistically 
considered for the upper limits of deployment (Reid et al., 2019), and also place additional 
costs on future deployment. Finally, BECCS will necessarily compete with agriculture for land, 
water, and energy, which presents challenges of governance and balancing policy needs.
An intrinsic concern regarding BECCS deployment is overall sustainability. Land-use changes 
(LUC) associated with biomass have led locally to severe environmental damage, affecting 
biodiversity, water quality, and environmental justice for indigenous peoples. Moreover, risks 
of carbon leakage and ecosystem carbon release from LUC can completely void the carbon 
and climate benefits of BECCS if executed using poor life-cycle pathways or systems with 
substantial LUC emissions. Conversely, with the appropriate focus on sustainable forestry and 
agriculture, including issues of equity and governance, BECCS could be scaled up quickly to 
good effect (Reid et al., 2019).
Mineralization
Over very long timescales, CO2 reacts with silicate minerals at Earth’s surface to make 
carbonate minerals. This is how nature removes large volumes of CO2 over geologic time and 
is one of the processes that leads to ice-ages (Chamberlain, 1900). Recently, it has become 
clear that humans can accelerate this process, either by adding heat and energy or by 
combining air with the most reactive mineral fractions (IPCC, 2005; Keleman et al., 2020). This 
binds CO2 in mineral form, making a highly stable pathway for geospheric return.
The enormous volumes of reactive minerals at Earth’s surface and near subsurface make 
the volume potential for carbon mineralization effectively limitless (NASEM 2018), although 
the practical limits are a function of mineral kinetics, reactive surface area, and the quality 
of the mineral resource. As with any other mineral resource, the geographic distribution of 
high-quality carbon-mineralization resources are uneven. However, recent work has identified 
locations where mineral resources, low-carbon energy, and existing infrastructure are available 
to support carbon-mineralization projects. It would be generous to say this pathway and 
approach has received very little scientific and policy attention (EFI, 2019).
NET-ZERO AND GEOSPHERIC RETURN: ACTIONS TODAY FOR 2030 AND BEYOND
24 |  CENTER ON GLOBAL ENERGY POLICY | COLUMBIA SIPA
CO2 utilization (CO2U)
For good reasons, many see the value in turning CO2 into goods for scale—that will 
be essential at some point for a circular carbon economy (CCE). The main types 
of valuable products made from CO2 in a CCE are cement and aggregate, fuels and 
chemicals, and durable carbon. (ICEF, 2018) The products (and mid-products) of CO2-
to-fuels conversion include: CO, syngas (H2 and CO mixture), methanol (CH3OH), and 
eventually to long-chain hydrocarbons—which are more challenging but also of greater 
value (Hu et al., 2013). 
● 
CO2-based cement and aggregates are thermodynamically favored, and many 
companies exist today that sell these products. 
● 
CO2-derived fuels can be carbon neutral or even carbon negative and can be 
used as alternative drop-in fuels, especially for hard-to-abate sectors (e.g., 
aviation and shipping). They require substantial input energy to synthesize. 
● 
Durable CO2-based-products, including carbon fiber/tubes, plastics, and 
composites, etc., can last longer and keep carbon away from the atmosphere. 
Unfortunately, even the largest applications are unlikely to use more than 1–2 Gtpa. 
Even that will require enormous energy requirements. The largest market, cement and 
aggregates, is unlikely to exceed more than 1–2 Gt (ICEF 2018). All other CO2 utilization 
pathways identified, especially fuels and chemicals, are expensive and require more 
energy input than originally produced in combustion. For other durable carbon products 
(e.g., carbon fiber and carbon nanotubes), the value is high but the total market value is 
very small and cannot absorb large CO2 volumes. For example, the global carbon fiber 
market is of the order of 100,000 tons. (Das et al., ORNL, 2016). Similarly, plastics cannot 
provide a large-enough market either (e.g., Epoxide, DOE’s testing plant products, has 
~20 Mt/y production and can take 40 percent CO2 by weight [DOE, 2013; Rebstadt and 
Meyer, 2001]). Finally, if CO2 utilization consumes energy or feedstocks with substantial 
carbon footprints, the life-cycle emissions could be very high. For these and other 
reasons, geospheric return of CO2 is essential to balance the climate books, even with 
a lot of CO2U.
NET-ZERO AND GEOSPHERIC RETURN: ACTIONS TODAY FOR 2030 AND BEYOND
ENERGYPOLICY.COLUMBIA.EDU | SEPTEMBER 2020   | 25
Before the Industrial Revolution, the carbon cycle was effectively in balance. Since 1800, 
humans have perturbed that balance by adding 2 trillion tonnes of CO2 to the air, much 
of which was taken up by the ocean and the rest into soils and forests (IPCC, 2014a). The 
rates at which soils and forests gained and lost carbon were fixed by evolution and the 
natural carrying capacity of ecosystems and further reduced by other human activities (e.g., 
deforestation). Today, the global economy (energy and land use) emits roughly 40 gigatonnes 
of CO2 and other non-CO2 greenhouse gases equal to 13–16 gigatonnes more CO2.
Almost all of this CO2 is taken from the geosphere in the form of coal, oil, and natural gas. 
Earth’s crust effectively held this material in solid, liquid, and gaseous forms for many 
hundreds of millions of years. This demonstrates an important opportunity in net-zero 
accounting: Earth’s crust is well-configured to hold carbon indefinitely (IPCC, 2005). In fact, 
natural occurrences of CO2, produced today for enhanced oil recovery, had accumulated and 
remained in Earth’s crust for as long as 280 million years.
The capacity of Earth’s crust to store CO2 is effectively limitless (NASEM, 2018). Conventional 
geological storage systems like saline formations have an estimated storage volume of 
10–20 trillion tonnes—far more than either annual emissions or our historic emissions. 
Unconventional systems, such as basalts and ultramafic rocks, are many orders of magnitude 
larger still. This capacity can serve in the coming decades to deeply curtail today’s existing 
facilities as a strategy to halve today’s emissions by 2030 and assist deep decarbonization 
by 2050. This capacity also can serve to balance any residual emissions and beyond that 
serve as the permanent repository of human legacy emissions. In a net-zero framework, the 
withdrawal of carbon from the geosphere can be balanced by return to the geosphere—
safe and permanent, both more durable and less risky than temporary carbon banking in the 
biosphere (e.g., Anderegg et al., 2020).
2030 Goal, Arithmetic and Requirements
Achieving net zero by midcentury will require a 45 percent reduction in CO2 emissions 
worldwide by 2030 relative to 2010 levels—to get on track, CO2 emissions would need to fall 
at a rate of roughly 5 percent per year between now and 2030 (e.g., Rogelj et al., 2018). In 
contrast, global CO2 emissions have continued to rise since 2010.
A significant proportion of emissions are already locked into the system, making the transition 
ever-more challenging (IEA, 2019; Tong et al., 2019). Industrial and power plants have long 
lifetimes, typically around 30 to 50 years. Over the past decade there has been a significant 
increase in capacity of emissions-intensive infrastructure that under conventional assumptions 
will remain in place in 2050. For example, steel, clinker, and coal-fired power plant capacities 
have increased by between 18 and 34 percent since 2010, primarily driven by expansion in 
China and India (Figure 3). Plans are in place to increase unabated capacity further in many of 
these markets, accentuating the challenge of transitioning to a net-zero emissions economy.
THE ROLE OF THE GEOSPHERE IN  
ESTABLISHING CARBON BALANCE
NET-ZERO AND GEOSPHERIC RETURN: ACTIONS TODAY FOR 2030 AND BEYOND
26 |  CENTER ON GLOBAL ENERGY POLICY | COLUMBIA SIPA
Figure 3: Net capacity additions for three industrial sectors (steel, LNG, and cement) and 
coal-fired power in the world’s five highest growth markets and the rest of the world.    
 
 
 
 
Source: IEA WEI 2019. 
Most models indicate CO2 emissions will need to peak globally in the next few years (e.g., IPCC 
2014; 2018; IEA 2019). Even in 1.5°C-consistent scenarios that initially overshoot temperature 
rises of 1.5°C, emissions peak by or shortly after 2030 (e.g., Fuss et al., 2018; Rogelj et al., 
2018). Achieving this peak in emissions will require widespread climate mitigation action in 
a range of sectors. Across the 90 1.5°C-consistent scenarios in the IPCC Special Report on 
Global Warming of 1.5°C, CO2 sequestration reaches 1.5 gigatonnes per annum on average by 
2030, 35 times higher than the mass of CO2 captured today. Other common themes include 
the continued growth in the deployment of solar and wind, the rapid phase-out of coal and 
the growth in low-carbon hydrogen as an energy carrier.
CCS has a critical role to play in achieving cheaper, easier, and rapid deep decarbonization 
of the hard-to-abate sectors, such as the power and industrial sector (mostly from cement, 
steel, and chemical subsectors). The IEA Clean Technology Scenario (2020) confirms that 
CCS is expected to contribute almost one-fifth of the emissions reductions needed across 
the industry sector (38 percent in the chemical subsector and 15 percent in both cement 
and iron and steel) to achieve the midcentury climate goals. One-third of industrial sector 
NET-ZERO AND GEOSPHERIC RETURN: ACTIONS TODAY FOR 2030 AND BEYOND
ENERGYPOLICY.COLUMBIA.EDU | SEPTEMBER 2020   | 27
energy demand is for high-temperature steam heat, which has only few renewable alternative 
sources. Further, process emissions inherent in some industrial production as a result of 
chemical reactions account for one-quarter of industrial emissions and cannot be easily 
avoided by switching to alternative fuels.
Thus, it is unrealistic to expect the achievement of net-zero emissions by 2050 without CCS. 
Even if all economically viable energy efficiency pathways are pursued, energy intensity  
will only be able to improve by 3.6 percent year-on-year from 2018 to 2040, without CCS  
(IEA, 2019).
Time to Build
The life cycle of any large industrial project includes several feasibility and engineering studies 
prior to the investment decision followed by more detailed engineering design and finally, 
construction. This life cycle takes between 6–10 years, depending on logistical constraints 
and speed of approval (GCCSI, 2019b). Construction alone takes an average of 3–4 years. For 
example, the 1 Mtpa Boundary Dam project (Saskatchewan) and the 1.2 Mtpa Quest project 
(Alberta) took four years to progress from being identified to entering construction, and 
PetraNova (Texas) took three years. The Alberta Carbon Trunk Line project took eight years 
from inception to commissioning. Considering that CCS projects, like all infrastructure take 
time to develop, installing sufficient capacity to deliver 2.8 Gtpa CO2 capture required to 
achieve the 2050 emissions target requires actions now.
Industrial CCS hubs offer significant cost and risk reductions compared to single sink-source 
CCS projects. Each segment of the CCS value chain requires investment in infrastructure 
such as CO2 capture equipment, pipelines, and injection wells. These investments can only 
be made if they provide an appropriate risk-weighted return, so reducing cost and risk is 
key to rapid deployment of CCS. Hubs significantly reduce the unit cost of CO2 transport 
and storage through economies of scale and provide multiple sources of CO2 with access to 
shared infrastructure (see the later discussion of infrastructure). Hubs also reduce market risk 
by creating multiple customers and service providers for each actor in a CCS value chain. They 
have already become the dominant setting for CCS investments. For example, in the US the 10 
large-scale CCS facilities, capturing 24.9 Mtpa of CO2, utilize approximately 2,000 kilometers 
(1,182 mi) of shared pipeline connection to transport captured CO2 (GCCSI, 2019a; NPC, 2019). 
In Canada, the Alberta Carbon Trunk Line brought two CCS projects online simultaneously, 
with more projects planned.
The US offers many additional opportunities for CCS hubs. A recent National Petroleum 
Council’s report (2019) that examined the central United States identified 115 sites, with total 
annual emissions of 477 million tonnes, would be suitable for CCS retrofit based on their 
location, size, age, fuel efficiency, criteria pollutant emissions, and competitive status in local 
power markets. Many of these potential sites could be served by proximal storage sites, 
including along the Gulf of Mexico and in the Permian Basin of Texas (Figure 4).
NET-ZERO AND GEOSPHERIC RETURN: ACTIONS TODAY FOR 2030 AND BEYOND
28 |  CENTER ON GLOBAL ENERGY POLICY | COLUMBIA SIPA
Figure 4: Demonstrated “carbon hub” potential with CO2 capture and neighboring sink 
opportunities surrounding existing CO2 pipelines in the Permian Basin (left) and Gulf Coast 
(right) regions.   
 
 
 
Source: Pilorgé et al., 2020. 
In Europe, a majority of all proposed CCS projects are similarly part of an industrial cluster. 
Examples of some planned CCS hub development in industrial regions include:
● 
Port of Rotterdam and Port of Amsterdam, Netherlands
● 
Port of Antwerp, Belgium
● 
Humber and Teesside, United Kingdom
● 
Northern Lights, Norway
● 
Ravenna Hub, Italy
● 
The Acorn Hydrogen and CCUS project in Scotland, United Kingdom
Interestingly, five countries are required to access funding for projects of common interest 
under the European Commission (EC) rules. As the number of EU countries considering 
hubs has reached five, this could be material and provide a policy window for infrastructure 
development and support. The UK government plans to develop the first net-zero carbon 
cluster by 2040, and the heavy industry of the Ruhr Valley in Germany could take advantage 
of emerging hubs in the Netherlands. The government of Denmark is also considering CCS 
infrastructure. Such hubs in the EU and US can serve as a policy and development model for 
NET-ZERO AND GEOSPHERIC RETURN: ACTIONS TODAY FOR 2030 AND BEYOND
ENERGYPOLICY.COLUMBIA.EDU | SEPTEMBER 2020   | 29
other industrialized regions (e.g., Tianjin/Hubei/Dalian in China or Cambay/Ahmedabad 
in India).
The development of individual hubs requires significant capital investment, including 
hundreds of kilometers of pipelines and proven storage infrastructure and requiring 
many billions of dollars. This is well within the range of typical industrial development. 
In 2019, there were more than 8,000 kilometers (5,000 mi) of CO2 pipelines transporting 
more than 70 Mtpa of CO2 from both natural and anthropogenic sources. Wallace, et al., 
(2015) and GPI (2020) independently estimate that roughly 28,000–35,000 kilometers 
(17,000–21,000 mi) of new pipeline would be needed to connect nearly 500 Mtpa of 
plant emissions to storage sites—roughly four times longer than today’s network size and 
substantially smaller than the 4 million kilometers (2.5 million mi) of existing natural gas 
and oil pipeline networks. GPI (2020) also argues that this network could serve future CO2 
removal through direct-air capture.
NET-ZERO AND GEOSPHERIC RETURN: ACTIONS TODAY FOR 2030 AND BEYOND
30 |  CENTER ON GLOBAL ENERGY POLICY | COLUMBIA SIPA
Infrastructure Development Model: Australian LNG
Development of the Australian LNG industry demonstrates how similar infrastructure 
can be rapidly developed where there is a business case. In 2018, Australia was able 
to scale its export capacity to overtake Qatar’s capacity, in part as a result of the 
infrastructure support of the Gorgon CO2 storage project (required for operation 
of and export from the LNG facility there). Even more companies are investing in 
infrastructure throughout the region, turning Western Australia into a global LNG hub. 
Australia has more than 39,000 kilometers (24,000 mi) of natural gas transmission 
pipelines that efficiently transport gas under high pressure from where it is produced 
to the outskirts of cities both large and small. Transmission pipelines in the Northern 
Territory take gas from fields near Alice Springs in the center of the country to 
Darwin for use and LNG export. It is likely that the CO2 storage infrastructure for the 
Australian continent will be substantially smaller and cheaper than the natural gas and 
LNG infrastructure.
Figure 5: Existing and Proposed Gas Transmission and Distribution Pipelines in Australia 
 
 
 
Source: Australian Energy Market Commission 2020
NET-ZERO AND GEOSPHERIC RETURN: ACTIONS TODAY FOR 2030 AND BEYOND
ENERGYPOLICY.COLUMBIA.EDU | SEPTEMBER 2020   | 31
Storage Resource Development
A worldwide portfolio of strategic, viable geological storage sites is essential to enable the 
planning and the development of CCS for net-zero. To reach 2030 and 2050 targets, a global 
stock-take of known storage capacity is critical, especially in key countries.
For decades, experts have known the global storage resources are more than enough to 
reach these climate targets (IPCC, 2005; Dooley et al., 2009; USGS, 2013; NETL, 2015). Their 
conclusion is based on a fundamental understanding—rocks suitable for storing CO2 are 
common and abundant around the world. All global estimates greatly exceed 5 trillion tons of 
capacity (Table 3) and can accept CO2 at a rate much larger than most nations’ total emissions 
(e.g., Crippa et al., 2019).
Table 3: Global CO2 capacity estimates   
Geography
Low estimate  
(P10) in Gt
High estimate  
(P90) in Gt
Source
Global
8,000
53,000
Kearns et al., 2017
Global
6,000
40,000
Consoli and Wingust, 
2017
North America
2,400
22,000
NETL, 2015; USGS 2013
China
1,100
3,600
Li et al., 2009; Consoli 
and Wingust, 2017
 
 
This high level of confidence in those storage resources is based in part on the natural 
occurrence of CO2 storage systems, some holding CO2 for over 250 million years (IPCC, 2005; 
IEAGHG, 2006). Mostly, this confidence rests on the well-understood physics, chemistry, and 
operational experience of oil and gas fields and the detailed characterization of rocks above, 
below, and adjacent to them. Although global gas and oil fields have substantial CO2 storage 
potential (the US alone hosts between 185–230 billion tonnes of storage capacity in oil and 
gas fields) (NETL, 2015), they make up only a small percentage of the total resource available 
for CO2. However, experience gained from hydrogeology and the oil and gas industry provides 
high confidence in an overabundance of CO2 storage capacity.
A significant gap remains in key jurisdictions between available resources and known, 
commercially viable storage capacity (similar to the distinction between resource and 
proven reserves in oil and gas). The CO2 Storage Resource Catalogue reviewed about 500 
sites around the world (OGCI, 2020). The Catalogue reviewed over 12,000 GtCO2 of storage 
resources using the industry-adopted classification system for CO2 storage, the Storage 
Resource Management System (SPE, 2017). Only 400 GtCO2 is “Discovered”; that is, having 
sufficient data that confirms the storage resource. Only 0.001 percent (100 MtCO2) is 
considered qualified today and commercially ready.
Today, the majority of those well-assessed storage resources are in nations with advanced CCS 
NET-ZERO AND GEOSPHERIC RETURN: ACTIONS TODAY FOR 2030 AND BEYOND
32 |  CENTER ON GLOBAL ENERGY POLICY | COLUMBIA SIPA
enterprises, including Norway, UK, US, Canada, and Australia. By 2030, a global portfolio of 
storage capacities in additional nations (especially China, India, Gulf Coast nations, and those in 
Southeast Asia) must match the required CCS capture rate. Such sites must commercially de-
risked, technically feasible, environmentally sustainable, and locally accepted.
As a climate policy objective, injection and storage rate of individual storage sites must be 
confirmed and prepared, a process known as characterization and appraisal. Characterization 
and appraisal are time consuming and labor intensive, but well understood. A number of 
standards and best practice manuals exist, including the NETL best practice manual and DNV 
GL Recommended Practice (DNV GL, 2012). The International Standards Organization is also 
developing standards on site selection and appraisal. Characterization and appraisal of specific 
sites carry significant risk and uncertainty. Given the time it takes to develop storage sites 
and manage uncertainties, a focus should be on key sites (e.g., near industrial clusters) in key 
nations. Additional characterization work would help prepare potential sites for CO2 removal 
projects, which today may be too far from emissions sources for conventional CCS projects.
Role of Law and Regulation
Transparent and predictable law and regulation are essential prerequisites for CCS investment. 
National governments and intergovernmental organizations emphasize the need to clarify 
CCS’s position within international and domestic law and develop frameworks to support 
its deployment (e.g., Faure, 2016). Uncertainty surrounding existing law and regulation is 
frequently highlighted as major concern by investors, industry, and the wider public alike. Key 
uncertainties include:
● 
Access to and ownership of pore-space, especially in the US
● 
Operational requirements, including monitoring, reporting, and verification (MRV)
● 
Liability issues, including long-term liability requirements and transfer of liability to 
the state.
For several early-mover governments, addressing the issue was a priority when formalizing 
early policy commitments to the technology’s deployment. In the past decade, the removal 
of legal barriers and the development of regulatory pathways within national regimes has 
become a defining aspect of national CCS activity.
Emergence of CCS-Specific Legislation
Although core elements of the CCS process have been practiced for many years as part 
of wider oil and gas industry operations, its role as a climate mitigation technology has 
challenged policymakers and regulators to adopt new approaches to its regulation. The result 
has been the development of new legal and regulatory frameworks aimed at regulating the 
entirety or discrete aspects of the CCS process. The past 10 years have seen amendments to 
international and regional agreements that explicitly include CCS activities within their scope, 
as well as the development of CCS-specific legislation in jurisdictions across Europe, North 
America, Asia, and Australia.
NET-ZERO AND GEOSPHERIC RETURN: ACTIONS TODAY FOR 2030 AND BEYOND
ENERGYPOLICY.COLUMBIA.EDU | SEPTEMBER 2020   | 33
In all but one instance, one of two approaches has been adopted by policymakers and 
regulators: either enhance existing regulatory frameworks with CCS-specific provisions or 
enact standalone CCS-specific legal frameworks. The exception has been the development 
of “project-specific” legislation that regulates the operations of a single project; an example 
of which is the Barrow Island Act, which regulates Western Australia’s Gorgon CO2 injection 
project (Government of Western Australia, 2003).
The European Union’s Directive 2009/31/EC offers an early example of a CCS-specific legal 
framework that deals with all aspects of the technology, throughout the project life cycle and 
within the context of climate change (European Parliament, 2009). The directive removes 
several potential legal barriers to CCS and clarifies the status of the technology under 
wider EU directives and regulations, including waste and water legislation. The European 
Commission chose to focus the directive upon the storage aspect of the CCS process and 
utilized several pre-existing legal instruments to manage some of the risks associated with the 
capture and transport aspects of the process. The resulting directive is a comprehensive CCS-
specific regime, which includes requirements for the permitting of exploration and storage 
activities, monitoring and reporting obligations, liability and financial security provisions, and 
a process enabling the closure and long-term stewardship of storage sites.
In Canada, where regulatory competence for developing legislation is shared between national 
entities and provincial or territory bodies, the design and implementation of CCS-specific 
regulatory frameworks has principally occurred at the provincial level. Alberta’s legal and 
regulatory regime is perhaps the most comprehensive CCS-specific model developed within 
the country to date (Legislative Assembly of Alberta, 2010). Similarly, in the United States, 
both federal and state authorities have undertaken development of CCS-specific law and 
regulation (e.g., EPA, 2010 a and b). These approaches serve as templates for other nations or 
regions considering how to provide clarity to project developers and investors.
Because of these and related legislative developments, it is now possible for policymakers 
and regulators to reflect upon the critical legal challenges and intricacies involved in 
regulating the CCS process. While the ambition and complexity of the legislation developed 
to date varies greatly, several common areas stand out, and core legal and regulatory 
elements (“building blocks”) will be required if regulatory regimes are to address concerns 
of investors and public stakeholders.
Only a small number of jurisdictions worldwide have well-defined and comprehensive CCS-
specific frameworks. This will be insufficient to achieve net zero by midcentury and requires 
cultivation of regulatory frameworks. These jurisdictions and their regulatory models offer 
excellent examples of the challenges to be faced in designing and implementing CCS-specific 
legislation. For global deployment targets to be met, many more jurisdictions will need to 
develop their regulatory response to the technology, and the time required to undertake the 
process must not be underestimated. The urgency of this activity will prove increasingly acute 
in view of the timeframes contemplated to meet global climate change commitments and net-
zero ambitions, including 2030 targets.
NET-ZERO AND GEOSPHERIC RETURN: ACTIONS TODAY FOR 2030 AND BEYOND
34 |  CENTER ON GLOBAL ENERGY POLICY | COLUMBIA SIPA
To address climate change, climate models have generally recommended a combination of 
measures with greater contributions from CCS technology in scenarios that have more ambi-
tious carbon targets, especially those which target net-zero emissions by 2050. For example, 
the IEA’s Sustainable Development Scenario estimates 9 percent of the emissions reductions 
will come from CCS. While this figure may appear relatively small, the challenge of deploying 
CCS to meet it is significant. The 9 percent figure represents roughly 4 Gt CO2 and a build 
rate of between 70 and 100 capture facilities per year, in parallel with necessary transporta-
tion and storage infrastructure.
Figure 6: Energy-related CO2 emissions & reductions in the Sustainable Development Scenario   
2010
Gt CO2 40
30
20
10
2020
2030
2040
2050
EFFICIENCY
RENEWABLES
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 
SCENARIO
STATED POLICIES 
SCENARIO
CURRENT TRENDS
FUEL SWITCH, 
CCUS AND OTHER
INDUSTRIAL ELECTRIC MOTORS
BUILDINGS
POWER
LIGHT & INDUSTRY
CARS & TRUCKS
HEAVY INDUSTRY
AIR CONDITIONERS
AVIATION AND SHIPPING
WIND
SOLAR PV
BIOFUELS TRANSPORT
OTHER RENEWABLES POWER
OTHER RENEWABLES END-USES
HYDRO
NUCLEAR
FUEL SWITCH INCL. HYDROGEN
ELECTRIC VEHICLES
CCUS POWER
CCUS INDUSTRY
BEHAVIOURAL CHANGE
RESOURCE EFFICIENCY
 Source: IEA World Energy Outlook (2019).
This means finance. CCS facilities are capital intensive, requiring hundreds of millions to 
billions of US dollars. Between now and 2030, capital support from governments will prove 
necessary to attract private capital. However, the sheer volume of capital required to achieve 
wide-scale deployment means private funding, both debt and equity. This is commonly the 
case for early deployment of clean energy technology deployment (see the offshore wind 
example later).
To date, CCS projects have not been able to attract private funding to meet high deployment 
rates. Most parts of the world lack solid, market-aligned policies for CCS, which limits financial 
viability. Most CCS projects are funded in public-private agreements involving a single 
corporation (or a fully owned subsidiary) that develops the project and places all financial 
PROJECTS: THE CORE MEASURE OF  
PROGRESS AND POLICY-FINANCE FOCUS
NET-ZERO AND GEOSPHERIC RETURN: ACTIONS TODAY FOR 2030 AND BEYOND
ENERGYPOLICY.COLUMBIA.EDU | SEPTEMBER 2020   | 35
costs (and risks) on its balance sheets. While this makes the entire process of corporate 
finance attractive in terms of cost of capital and speed of implementation, too few companies 
are large enough to develop projects in this way, and corporate finance cannot deliver the 
projects needed to meet the targeted number of CCS projects for 1.5°C or 2°C scenarios.
The alternative, and more scalable funding model, is project finance. Capital for the project 
is raised on the basis of future cash flows with multiple investors in a single project, so both 
equity and debt investors are exposed to any uncertainty in performance of the project.4  
Unlike corporate finance, project financiers have no recourse to the assets of project owners 
and need stable, predictable returns to place their capital risk. This is particularly true of 
institutional investors (e.g., pension funds and sovereign wealth), which commonly accept low 
rates of return for low-risk investments, and to attract small- and medium-size investors (i.e., 
companies that lack large balance sheets). Reducing risks also reduces costs of capital, which 
will enable participation of smaller companies in the CCS sector.
The Role of Institutional Investors
Institutional investors—those that invest on behalf of third parties, such as mutual funds, 
pension funds, and insurance companies—will play an important role as CCS deployment 
ramps up. Institutional investors are attracted to investment in infrastructure projects because 
these provide secure, long-term cash flow while also providing a yield pickup (an investment 
strategy whereby bonds with lower yields are traded for bonds with higher yields) on the low 
returns available from government bonds.
Like all large-scale infrastructure projects, CCS projects will have a varying risk profile across 
the different phases of construction and operation. Once a project is commissioned, its 
risk profile falls because risks are highest during the construction phase and lower during 
operation. This drop in the risk profile of a project can lead to the refinancing of a project’s 
debt with more favorable terms of lending being applied, which reduces project cost, bringing 
institutional investors to refinance or acquire projects that have entered operation.
Lessons from European Offshore Wind
The European offshore wind sector is the most advanced in the world, and its recent 
development provides insights as to how project financing can be leveraged for large-
scale CCS projects to increase the rate of deployment. 
During the early 2000s, there were very few offshore wind projects in operation, similar 
to the status of CCS projects today. Once the EU confirmed offshore wind as a critical 
technology to meet the bloc’s emission reduction targets, it implemented multiple 
policies to accelerate the rate of deployment of offshore wind farms. Private investors 
received a range of government subsidies in conjunction with other financing policies 
from the EC, including feed-in tariffs, green certificates, contracts for difference, and 
other “offtake agreements.”
NET-ZERO AND GEOSPHERIC RETURN: ACTIONS TODAY FOR 2030 AND BEYOND
36 |  CENTER ON GLOBAL ENERGY POLICY | COLUMBIA SIPA
Each of these served the purpose of delivering a sufficiently high and stable revenue 
stream to offset project risks and generate acceptable returns. These incentives together 
de-risked investments in offshore wind overall and established a learning curve for the 
technology, creating more opportunities for smaller investors. As the offshore wind 
sector has evolved, investors have become more comfortable with project risks, so 
the participation of financiers has diversified, with commercial lenders playing a more 
prominent role than during the early stages of deployment. This had led to dramatic 
increases in the number of projects (Figure 6). Today, investments in offshore wind 
consist predominantly of conventional project finance.
Figure 7: Cumulative offshore wind installations from the early nineties until 2019  
 
 
 
Source: Wind Europe
Although there are significant differences between offshore wind and CCS projects, 
there are important similarities, including novel, bespoke infrastructure and large 
corporate first-movers that fund projects on their books. With proper market-aligned 
policies, CCS could follow a similar trajectory.
NET-ZERO AND GEOSPHERIC RETURN: ACTIONS TODAY FOR 2030 AND BEYOND
ENERGYPOLICY.COLUMBIA.EDU | SEPTEMBER 2020   | 37
Without strong and predictable policies, market failures translate to market risks. If the cost 
of capture, transportation, and storage of CO2 is greater than the value provided by climate 
policies, there is no incentive for investing in CCS. The value must be both stable and relatively 
predictable, and that predictability must ultimately be long-lived.
There are, however, additional challenges that require government intervention to get projects 
built, given the early stage of CCS ecosystems and networks:
● 
Interdependency or cross-chain risk: CCS facilities may involve one source, one sink, 
and one pipeline. These engender higher costs as well as a significant interdependency 
risk for disaggregated business models. This risk manifests as a higher cost of capital 
for potential financiers and represents a significant barrier to project investment.
● 
Long-term liability risk: While the risk of leakage from an appropriately selected 
storage resource is extremely low, unlimited or long-duration liability obligations make 
it very difficult for private sector investors to accept, particularly in jurisdictions where 
experience or access to geological data is limited. If these questions are not clarified 
through policy, even very low-risk projects may be difficult to launch.
Overcoming these risks will be essential to achieving 2030 rates of deployment. Thankfully, 
well-understood options are available as means to better manage or mitigate these risks so as 
to create an enabling environment for the private sector to invest in CCS.
Valorizing CO2
Applying CCS at points of emission rapidly and profoundly reduces emissions. CCS does not, 
however, make products like steel or electricity, create revenues, or reduce energy consumption. 
In fact, capturing, transporting, and injecting CO2 commonly adds costs and energy 
requirements. To merit investment, policies must place a sufficiently high value on the emissions 
reduction to incentivize investments. To date, the chief way this has occurred has been 
through the sale of human-made CO2 for Enhanced Oil Recovery (EOR) rather than through 
environmental or clean energy policy mechanisms. Of the 21 projects currently in operation, 16 
sell CO2 for EOR (CO2-EOR), a process whereby CO2 is injected into oil reservoirs.
Widespread deployment of CCS will require a sufficiently high value to be placed on CO2 
emissions reduction independent of (and possibly as substitutes for) CO2-EOR opportunities. 
This can only be achieved through market-aligning policies. Many options are available, and 
many examples exist supporting CCS deployment. Each jurisdiction determines the policy mix 
that best suits the local market.
● 
Cap and trade: These policies work by placing a limit on the total emissions—a 
regulatory cap—allowed for a given industry or the whole economy. The cap is split 
into transferable allowances, so companies can decide whether to contain their 
emissions or purchase additional allowances from others. Over time, governments may 
POLICY OPTIONS
NET-ZERO AND GEOSPHERIC RETURN: ACTIONS TODAY FOR 2030 AND BEYOND
38 |  CENTER ON GLOBAL ENERGY POLICY | COLUMBIA SIPA
reduce the cap so that there are less allowances available, thereby increasing demand 
for low-carbon interventions. By their nature, cap-and-trade schemes reward the most 
cost-effective forms of mitigation first. The European Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS) 
is one example, and a variation on cap and trade (baseline accreditation), the California 
low-carbon fuel standard, is a second (GCCSI, 2019). While cap-and-trade schemes 
provide a great deal of certainty over emissions reductions, they may carry significant 
uncertainty regarding the commercial value of these reductions. For example, the ETS 
value remains below the investment threshold for CCS investment and is not projected 
to meet it before 2030 (European Commission, 2018; CarbonTracker, 2018).
● 
Carbon tax: A carbon tax is a fixed cost imposed on CO2 emissions. The pricing of the 
tax can be optimized to achieve reductions in line with targets for specific areas of the 
economy, and it can be increased over time to drive down emissions. For CCS, such taxes 
can be directed at large emitters and priced higher than the cost of capture. Like all taxes, 
however, their effectiveness is subject to their longevity. The Norwegian government 
introduced a carbon tax in 1991, which incentivized the development of the Sleipner and 
Snøhvit CCS projects. At the time, $17/t CO2, the cost of injecting and storing CO2 for the 
Sleipner project, was much less than the $50/t CO2 tax penalty for CO2 vented to the 
atmosphere (Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 2016; Herzog, 2016).
● 
Tax credits and other incentives: Governments may grant incentives such as tax 
credits to promote investment in a low-carbon technology. Credits can be investment-
based (investment tax credits), performance-based (e.g., production tax credits), or 
both in combination. Tax credits have the benefit of being well-established climate 
change policies, having been used to drive significant investment in renewables over 
the past two decades. The US has used tax credits to stimulate renewable investments, 
including the wind production tax credit and the solar investment tax credit. In 2018, 
the US amended a performance-based tax credit for CCUS, 45Q (EFI, 2018; GCCSI, 
2019). A similar mechanism, contract for differences (CfD), provides additional 
revenues for low-emissions production of electricity and acts as a production credit. 
The UK CfD for low-carbon electric power generation is an example that would 
support CCS deployment there (BEIS, 2020).
● 
Green bonds: One promising investment vehicle, sustainable bonds, allows investors 
to attach purpose to their investments, reconnecting finance with hard assets in 
the economy. In recent years, there has been significant growth in sustainable 
bond investments, particularly those issued to raise financing for climate-friendly 
investments. In terms of financing sources, there may prove to be substantial potential 
if projects are structured correctly. To this end, specialist funding sources (i.e., 
multilateral agencies and export credit agencies) play an important role in providing 
impact financing, especially during the earlier stages of deployment.
● 
Regulated reductions. Enacting legislation to reach climate targets provides 
transparency and accountability. To this end, several countries have mandated 
emissions reduction targets through legislation. Many countries have legislated net-
zero emission commitments by 2050: France, the United Kingdom, Sweden, Denmark, 
NET-ZERO AND GEOSPHERIC RETURN: ACTIONS TODAY FOR 2030 AND BEYOND
ENERGYPOLICY.COLUMBIA.EDU | SEPTEMBER 2020   | 39
Netherlands, Iceland, and New Zealand. At the subnational level, California and New 
York in the US and Victoria in Australia have all enacted legislative commitments 
to net-zero. Some commitments are economy-wide; others are sector-specific 
(e.g., electricity). Commonly, these regulated reductions are paired with incentives 
and supported by advisory or statutory bodies (e.g., the UK’s Climate Change 
Committee, created by the Climate Change Act of 2008). Some countries with net-
zero commitments have overtly provided policy support for CCS deployment. In the 
Netherlands, CCS has been highlighted as a crucial technology in the electricity sector, 
and accompanying policy packages have allocated subsidies to assist with deployment.
● 
Procurement policy: Public procurement has emerged as an important instrument of 
innovation policy. Governments are one of the largest buyers of materials and services 
and can have a significant influence over the development of markets. In OECD 
nations, public procurement accounts for 12 percent of GDP, and up to 30 percent in 
many developing countries (Hasanbeigi et al., 2019). In the context of CCS, this is most 
relevant for hard-to-abate sectors, from which governments procure either directly 
or indirectly in large volume, including cement, steel, paper, and fuel. Traditionally, 
governments have bought the first generation of clean energy technologies, playing 
a key role in creating supply chains, stimulating innovation investments, and reducing 
initial costs. However, many policies that guide procurement predate the Paris 
Agreement and restrict the adoption of low-carbon choices. Governments must modify 
procurement policies and standards accordingly.
Costs and Avoided Costs
In considering what policy mix can achieve a net-zero economy and how to value emissions 
reductions, two key questions emerge: What should we do first, and how much will this cost? 
Focusing on 2030 as a near-term milestone underscores these questions: the longer the delay 
in reducing CO2 emissions towards zero, the larger the likelihood of exceeding a 1.5°C increase, 
and the heavier the implied reliance on net-negative emissions after midcentury to return 
warming to 1.5°C.
In this context, CCS has two specific values: low total costs in comparison to other options and 
avoided costs of climate change impacts through rapid mitigation and emissions reduction.
The Energy Transitions Commission (2018) states that achieving net-zero emissions in hard-to-
abate sectors without CCS “will probably be impossible, and certainly [be] more expensive.” 
It describes CCS as the most cost-effective route to decarbonizing chemicals, steel, and 
hydrogen production. One advantage CCS has is the ability to retrofit existing facilities 
without their premature retirement. Attaching CCS operations to emitting plants allows 
continued operation and production in existing infrastructure and logistics chains, preventing 
the capital losses associated with premature decommissioning (Friedmann et al., 2020). The 
prize can be substantial—applying carbon capture to the most feasible individual fossil power 
generators in the US would capture approximately 200 million MT per year (Brown, 2019) and 
at lower system costs than other low-carbon options (Jenkins et al., 2018; NPC, 2019).
To compare CCS with other clean energy options requires a common metric. To determine 
NET-ZERO AND GEOSPHERIC RETURN: ACTIONS TODAY FOR 2030 AND BEYOND
40 |  CENTER ON GLOBAL ENERGY POLICY | COLUMBIA SIPA
the relative abatement costs associated with carbon removal technologies and policies, 
Friedmann et al., (2020) propose a levelized cost of abatement (LCCA). LCCA provides 
specific quantitative measures regarding the cost and abatement associated with specific 
investments, technologies, or policies, allowing “apples-to-apples” comparisons between 
CO2 reduction and removal options. Gillingham and Stock (2018) compare these costs across 
many carbon reduction or removal policies, revealing that CCS remains cheaper than many 
decarbonization pathways. (Figure 7)
Figure 8: Estimated CO2 abatement costs from selected US policies. Most of these policy 
options cost much more than the cost of carbon capture (orange shading) or even direct-air 
capture (yellow shading). Data from Gillingham and Stock, 2018. CCS cost data from GCCSI 
2019 and NPC 2019. DAC costs from Rhodium Group, 2019.  
$0
$100 $200 $300 $400 $500
Renewable Portfolio Standards
Reforestation
Wind energy subsidies
Clean Power Plan
Social Cost of Carbon (IWG 2016)
Gasoline tax
Methane flaring regulation
Reducing federal coal leasing
CAFE Standards
Agricultural emissions policies
National Clean Energy Standard
Soil management
Well plugging (20-year GWP)
Livestock management policies
Renewable fuel subsidies
Low carbon fuel standard
Solar photovoltaics subsidies
Biodiesel
Well plugging (100-year GWP)
Cash for Clunkers
Weatherization assistance program
Dedicated battery electric vehicle subsidy
z
z
z
$640
$2,100
$2,900
 
 
 Source: Bordoff et al., 2020.
NET-ZERO AND GEOSPHERIC RETURN: ACTIONS TODAY FOR 2030 AND BEYOND
ENERGYPOLICY.COLUMBIA.EDU | SEPTEMBER 2020   | 41
The recent NPC (2019) report estimated the marginal abatement costs (MAC) for virtually every 
large emitter in the US, creating a MAC curve for CCUS deployment (Figure 8). It represents 
specific US facilities and builds the curve with individual costs assuming a specific existing 
technology and casts them in the context of policy ambition. Their estimates indicate that 
almost half a gigaton of reduction is possible for less than $110/ton CO2, again substantially less 
than other options discussed by Friedmann et al., (2020) or Gillingham and Stock (2018).
Figure 9: Marginal abatement cost (MAC) curve for application of carbon capture and storage 
technology to individual existing US point sources (both power and industrial sites). 
 
Source: NPC, 2019
Finally, it is important to remember the likely costs and consequences associated with 
inaction. Stern and Stiglitz (2017) estimate enormous costs associated with climate change, 
ranging from 5–20 percent of global GDP. The estimated costs and impacts on health, 
infrastructure, and biodiversity are enormous even under a 2o C scenario (IPCC 1.5o C report, 
2018). In this, CCS provides an option that takes advantage of existing infrastructure at lower 
marginal cost and lower system cost (IEA, 2020).
Ecosystem Support
Some clean energy technologies, such as hydropower or biofuels, enter mature markets with 
well-developed infrastructure, legal, and regulatory systems. That mature market ecosystem 
NET-ZERO AND GEOSPHERIC RETURN: ACTIONS TODAY FOR 2030 AND BEYOND
42 |  CENTER ON GLOBAL ENERGY POLICY | COLUMBIA SIPA
has helped speed adoption rates. Between now and 2030, components of the CCS ecosystem 
require support, clarification, and development to facilitate deployment.
Infrastructure: Pipelines, Storage Centers, and Minimizing Cross-Chain Risk
CCS facilities may involve one source, one sink, and one pipeline. In a disaggregated business 
model, there is significant cross-chain risk for all members of the value chain. This risk is a 
significant barrier to investment and manifests, ultimately, as a higher cost of capital and 
higher project costs. Common infrastructure dramatically lowers costs and risks to market 
entry and lets participants focus on their core business and skills. Shared transport and 
storage networks significantly improve the economics of CCS facilities because of the benefits 
of economies of scale and overall de-risking, and developing this infrastructure is essential to 
achieving widespread deployment of CCS systems (GPI, 2020).
An important option (discussed earlier) is the hub and cluster model (Figure 9). Here, value 
is provided through risk reduction across the value chain. A transport and storage network 
gathers CO2 and manages disposal with a single entity, which significantly reduces unit cost of 
CO2 disposal, enables market entry for new players, and reduces cross-chain risk by creating 
multiple customers for the operators of the CO2 transport and injection business. Hubs and 
clusters offer high levels of operational flexibility, clear and constant prices for CO2 services, 
reduced operational risk, and can serve to attract additional local investment, production, 
manufacturing, and jobs.
Figure 10: Hub and cluster model 
CO2
Business A 
Steel Plant
Business B 
Steam Methane 
Reformer
Business F 
Fertilzer Plant
Business G
Natural Gas 
Plant
Business I
Future Power 
Generation
Business H
Reﬁnery
Business C 
Gasiﬁcation 
Plant
Business D 
Cement Plant
Business K 
Ofshore CO2 
Storage
Business L 
Onshore CO2 
Storage
Business E
Biomass
Business J 
CO2 Storage Hub
CO2 Collection Hub
CO2
 
 
NET-ZERO AND GEOSPHERIC RETURN: ACTIONS TODAY FOR 2030 AND BEYOND
ENERGYPOLICY.COLUMBIA.EDU | SEPTEMBER 2020   | 43
Early investors in a new transport and storage network will face all the costs and risks of a 
single source until others join the network. This exposes them to cross-chain risks, greatly 
limiting numbers of early-movers. Guarantees must be provided for revenue during the early 
stages of development, as they are for new power transmission lines or new natural gas 
pipelines. For CCS projects in most jurisdictions, the balance of risk and return is insufficient 
to attract private sector investment in a CO2 transport and storage network, requiring 
government investment or loan guarantees early on. The benefit to governments, beyond 
rapid and profound emission reduction, would include new investment attracted by the 
infrastructure and associated jobs and community support.
This model of government making the initial investment in infrastructure followed by later 
privatization is proven in other sectors such as road and rail transport, power generation and 
transmission, and telecommunication. Alternatively, governments could invest in establishing 
a regulatory framework that provides the private sector with the right incentives to invest 
in transport and storage networks. This may be preferable in regions where this is already 
common among infrastructure providers and where governments are restricted in funding 
transport and storage networks.
Long-Term Liability
A significant barrier to investment in CO2 storage is risk associated with long-term liability. If 
there are no limitations on liability, either magnitude or duration, storage operators will face 
indefinite obligations of uncertain size. It is very difficult for private sector investors to accept 
essentially unlimited and perpetual liabilities. To mitigate this risk, it is critical for governments 
to implement a well-characterized legal and regulatory framework that clarifies operators’ 
potential liabilities.
Multiple governments have adopted a remedy, whereby the storage operator bears the risk 
of short-term liability during the operational period of the project and for a specified post-
closure period only. The Australian government provides one example:
Following the completion of a period of at least 15 years, from the issue of 
the Site Closure Certificate, the title-holder may apply to the Minister for a 
declaration confirming the end of the ‘Closure Assurance Period’. A declaration 
at the end of this period concludes the title-holder’s liability for the storage 
site. Importantly, the Offshore Petroleum and Greenhouse Gas Storage Act also 
provides the former title-holder with an indemnity from the Commonwealth 
Government for any liability accrued after the Closure Assurance Period 
(Havercroft, et al., 2015).
This approach has been replicated in a number of other jurisdictions including the Australian 
states of Victoria and Queensland, the European Union, and the Canadian province of Alberta. 
It recognizes that the risk of leakage from a geological storage resource is highest during 
injection of CO2, reduces immediately upon cessation of injection, and continues to reduce 
with time. Consequently, the risk accepted by governments starts small and shrinks thereafter.
Another proposed option is for governments to bear some or all of the risk during and after 
NET-ZERO AND GEOSPHERIC RETURN: ACTIONS TODAY FOR 2030 AND BEYOND
44 |  CENTER ON GLOBAL ENERGY POLICY | COLUMBIA SIPA
storage operations. This mechanism has been adopted in many states in the US, which have 
legislated policies that accept liability for early projects. Under this arrangement, the private 
sector operator would be responsible for risks incurred below a cap, while government would 
take responsibility for all additional risks above a cap (Pale Blue Dot, 2018). Note that all risks, 
not just long-term liability risks, could be subject to risk-sharing under this model.
Amendment of International Marine Law
Enormous opportunities exist to store CO2 offshore, most importantly in Europe and Australia. 
Even in the 1990s, many early analyses focused on the maritime setting for CO2 injection 
and storage activities. Initial legal and regulatory assessments of CCS operations identified 
international and regional marine agreements as potential barriers to the technology’s 
deployment, notably the 1972 London Convention and its proposed Protocol, a key element 
of the CCS ecosystem that merits diplomatic attention and work. The Protocol (the first 
international agreement codified to protect marine environments from wastes) adopts a 
stringent, precautionary approach to the disposal of wastes, with parties required to prohibit 
the dumping of all wastes at sea, save for those listed in the Protocol’s Annex.5
The completion of various CCS-focused legal and technical reviews and the Protocol’s entry into 
force in 2006, resulted in several parties submitting a proposal to amend the Protocol’s Annex 
to allow the storage of CO2 in sub-seabed geological formations. At the first meeting of the 
contracting parties to the London Protocol in November 2006, a formal resolution was adopted 
and entered into force in 2007. This category consists of “Carbon dioxide streams from carbon 
dioxide capture processes for sequestration” and provides a formal basis for the regulation of 
CO2 sequestration in sub-seabed geological formations under the Protocol’s mechanisms.
Shortly after the 2006 amendment, it became apparent to parties who were keen to export 
their CO2 for storage or to host storage projects within their territory that these activities 
were not permitted under the Protocol. While principally aimed at preventing the export of 
wastes to non-parties, Article 6 of the Protocol had the effect of prohibiting transboundary 
transportation of CO2 for geological storage. The position was confirmed by a technical 
working group, who recommended proposed text to amend the Protocol, introduced in 
October 2009 as a formal amendment. The amendment has yet to enter into force due to 
insufficient signatories. Although an agreement was reached in 2019 to allow the provisional 
application of the 2009 amendment as an interim solution, ratification of the 2009 
amendment remains important.
Beyond 2030
Given the long lead times associated with developing CCS projects, the steps taken between 
now and 2030 will determine whether CCS technology will be deployed at the scale necessary 
to meet net-zero emissions by 2050. The arithmetic similarly demands that between 2030 and 
2050 the rate of deployment of CCS grows exponentially. This implies that a rapidly growing 
demand for CCS projects emerges from debt and capital markets before 2030. For this to 
happen, investments in CCS must be significantly de-risked during the intervening years.
Governments must also anticipate the logistical barriers to be overcome by 2030. This will 
NET-ZERO AND GEOSPHERIC RETURN: ACTIONS TODAY FOR 2030 AND BEYOND
ENERGYPOLICY.COLUMBIA.EDU | SEPTEMBER 2020   | 45
involve planning and investment at large scale, such that the infrastructure to enable private 
investments in capture facilities is already available by the time the CCS market is de-risked 
and financiers are primed to invest. A handful of countries may already be on this path and 
will be well positioned to host projects beyond 2030.
Nonetheless, significant work remains to ensure that key nations, ones for which CCS will 
be an essential component of their climate objectives, follow suit. Parts of the world lack 
the capacity to develop the necessary infrastructure, human capital, or policies. In many 
cases (e.g., Southeast Asia) high cost of capital will severely limit investment potential. 
Novel arrangements should be explored to create options for these regions. One idea is for 
a group of OECD and non-OECD countries to cooperate in creating trade-based hubs and 
clusters enabled through shipping CO2. Each country could then play to its strengths to create 
a cost-effective network of low-carbon goods, services, and infrastructure. International 
engagement, both bilateral and multilateral and in some cases long-lived, will be important to 
lay the foundations for projects and trade networks of this kind. Similarly, work is needed now 
to identify and assess viable geological storage options in regions like India, Southeast Asia, 
and Latin America. This may involve capacity building exercises, data transparency, and joint 
international surveys as the rest of the policy framework for geospheric return matures.
Such approaches can only succeed through robust policy measures and the availability of 
affordable financing. Developing countries will be at a disadvantage, and in some cases 
country risks would translate into a high cost of capital. To overcome these barriers, support 
from OECD countries, e.g., through climate finance mechanisms, may prove essential. This 
support can only become available if there is a concerted effort from within the international 
community to target large-scale planning and implementation of CCS projects globally.
NET-ZERO AND GEOSPHERIC RETURN: ACTIONS TODAY FOR 2030 AND BEYOND
46 |  CENTER ON GLOBAL ENERGY POLICY | COLUMBIA SIPA
The benefits of the modern energy system are many and varied, including wealth, health, art, 
and growing equity. The emissions from this system, past, present, and future, present a grave 
threat to these benefits and to the natural world. Urgent action is required to achieve net-
zero emissions and ultimately to remove legacy emissions from our air and oceans. The work 
is pressing, mammoth, and enduring.
For this work, there is no substitute for carbon management. Both conventional CCS and 
engineered CO2 removal are essential contributors to a net-zero global economy. All of the 
above starts with the world “all.” Throughout the next 10 years, specific investments in 
infrastructure and innovation and specific policy actions will determine if net-zero is possible 
in our lifetimes. The focus must be on returning any carbon taken from the geosphere back to 
the geosphere and enabling policies that can hasten deployment. The most important policy 
options are as follows:
● 
Invest in CO2 transportation and storage infrastructure, most importantly CO2 
pipelines, industrial hubs and clusters, and qualified storage sites.
● 
Provide financial support to projects, either through incentives (e.g., contract for 
differences, grants, tax credits, green bonds) or regulation (e.g., mandates, emissions 
standards, cap and trade).
● 
Clarify key regulatory and policy issues, such as pore-volume access, long-term 
liability resolution, and the amendment of the London Convention of the Seas.
Due to the urgency of the climate crisis, time is of the essence. There are no important 
technical barriers to scale-up. The costs are well within the conventional boundaries of global 
energy investments and the policy options well understood. The next ten years will prove 
decisive – if the governments of the world are to meet their climate goals, these key policies 
must enter into force with deliberate speed.
SUMMARY – IT’S ABOUT TIME
NET-ZERO AND GEOSPHERIC RETURN: ACTIONS TODAY FOR 2030 AND BEYOND
ENERGYPOLICY.COLUMBIA.EDU | SEPTEMBER 2020   | 47
Abraham, Spencer. 2004. “The Bush Administration’s Approach to Climate Change.” Science 
305: 616–617. https://science.sciencemag.org/content/305/5684/616.full. 
Anderegg, William R.L. et al., 2020. “Climate-driven risks to the climate mitigation potential 
of forests.” Science 368. https://science.sciencemag.org/content/368/6497/eaaz7005.editor-
summary. 
BEIS. 2020. “Contracts for Difference: Policy Paper. Department for Business, Energy, and 
Industrial Strategy.” UK Government. https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/contracts-
for-difference/contract-for-difference. 
Bordoff, Jason, Daniel Raimi, and Neelesh Nerurkar. 2020. “Green Stimulus for Oil and Gas 
Workers: Considering a Major Federal Effort to Plug Orphaned and Abandoned Wells.” Center 
on Global Energy Policy. https://energypolicy.columbia.edu/research/report/green-stimulus-
oil-and-gas-workers-considering-major-federal-effort-plug-orphaned-and-abandoned. 
Bordoff, Jason. 2020. “Yes, We Can Get Rid of the World’s Dirtiest Fuel.” Foreign Policy (August 
26, 2020). https://foreignpolicy.com/2020/08/26/coal-mining-electricity-climate-change/. 
CarbonTracker. 2018. “Carbon Clampdown: Closing the Gap to a Paris-compliant EU-ETS.” 
CarbonTracker (April 25, 2018). https://carbontracker.org/reports/carbon-clampdown/. 
Consoli, Christopher P. and Neil Wildgust. 2017. “Current status of global storage resources.” 
Energy Procedia 114: 4623–4628.  https://www.globalccsinstitute.com/archive/hub/
publications/201748/consoli-wildgust-2017-global-storage.pdf. 
Cui, Ryna Yiyun et al. 2019. “Quantifying operational lifetimes for coal power plants under the 
Paris Goals.” Nature Communications 10. https://www.nature.com/articles/s41467-019-12618-3. 
Crippa, Monica et al. “Fossil CO2 and GHG emissions of all world countries: 2019 Report.” 
European Union. https://publications.jrc.ec.europa.eu/repository/bitstream/JRC117610/fossil_
co2_emissions_of_all_world_countries_booklet_online_final.pdf. 
Das, Sujit, Josh Warren, Devin West, and Susan M. Schexnayder. 2016. “Global Carbon 
Fiber Composites Supply Chain Competitiveness Analysis: ORNL Report.” Clean Energy 
Manufacturing Analysis Center. https://www.nrel.gov/docs/fy16osti/66071.pdf. 
Dias, Isabela. 2019. “In Brazil, Jair Bolsonaro’s Anti-Environment Agenda Goes Far Beyond the 
Amazon.” Slate (November 13, 2019). https://slate.com/news-and-politics/2019/11/brazil-jair-
bolsonaro-anti-environment-agenda-wildfires-oil-spill.html. 
DNV GL. 2012. “DNV-RP-J203 Geological Storage of Carbon Dioxide: Recommended 
practice.” DNV GL. https://www.dnvgl.com/oilgas/download/dnvgl-rp-j203-geological-
storage-of-carbon-dioxide.html. 
REFERENCES
NET-ZERO AND GEOSPHERIC RETURN: ACTIONS TODAY FOR 2030 AND BEYOND
48 |  CENTER ON GLOBAL ENERGY POLICY | COLUMBIA SIPA
ETC. 2018. “Mission Possible: Reaching net-zero emissions from harder-to-abate sectors 
by mid-century.” Energy Transitions Commission. https://www.energy-transitions.org/wp-
content/uploads/2020/08/ETC_MissionPossible_FullReport.pdf.
EFI. 2018. “Advancing Large Scale Carbon Management: Expansion of the 45Q Tax Credit.” 
Energy Futures Initiative. https://static1.squarespace.com/static/58ec123cb3db2bd94e057628/
t/5b0604f30e2e7287abb8f3c1/1527121150675/45Q_EFI_5.23.18.pdf. 
EFI. 2019. “Clearing the Air: A Federal R&D Initiative and Management Plan for Carbon 
Dioxide Removal Technologies.” Energy Futures Initiative. https://www.dropbox.com/
s/2y36ngfrcbpv37f/EFI%20Clearing%20the%20Air%20Full%20Report.pdf?dl=0. 
EPA. 2010. “Federal Requirements Under the Underground Injection Control (UIC) Program 
for Carbon Dioxide (CO2) Geologic Sequestration (GS) Wells.” Federal Register 75, no. 237 
(December 10, 2010). https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/FR-2010-12-10/pdf/2010-29954.pdf.
EPA. 2010. “Mandatory Reporting of Greenhouse Gases: Injection and Geologic Sequestration 
of Carbon Dioxide.” Federal Register 75 Fed. Reg. 75060, 75089 (10 December 2010) 
(amending 40C.F.R. § 72, 78, and 98). Environmental Protection Agency. https://www.ecfr.
gov/cgibin/textidx?SID=016b6a7f23be7597239fdcb2e9f5453f&mc=true&node=sp40.23.98.
rr&rgn=div6#se40.23.98_1448.
European Commission. 2014. “EU ETS in 2030, A Long-term Price Forecast.” Thompson 
Reuters. https://ec.europa.eu/clima/sites/clima/files/docs/0094/thomson_reuters_point_
carbon_en.pdf.
European Parliament. 2009. “Directive 2009/31/EC of the European Parliament and of the 
Council of 23 April 2009 on the geological storage of carbon dioxide and amending Council 
Directive 85/337/EEC.” EUR-Lex. Current consolidated version: https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-
content/EN/AUTO/?uri=CELEX:02009L0031-20181224. 
Faure, Michael. 2016. “Liability and Compensation for Damage Resulting from CO2 Storage 
Sites.” William and Mary Environmental Law and Policy Review 387. https://scholarship.law.
wm.edu/wmelpr/vol40/iss2/3. 
FEU-US. 2019. “The Truth Behind Climate Pledges.” Fundación Ecológica Universal. https://
feu-us.org/behind-the-climate-pledges/.
Friedmann, Julio, Zhiyuan Fan, and Ke Tang. 2019. “Low-Carbon Heat Solutions for Heavy 
Industry: Sources, Options, and Costs Today.” Center on Global Energy Policy. https://
energypolicy.columbia.edu/research/report/low-carbon-heat-solutions-heavy-industry-
sources-options-and-costs-today.
Friedmann, Julio, Emeka Ochu, and Jeffrey D. Brown. 2020. “Capturing Investment: Policy 
Design to Finance CCUS Projects in the U.S. Power Sector.” Center on Global Energy Policy. 
https://www.energypolicy.columbia.edu/research/report/capturing-investment-policy-design-
finance-ccus-projects-us-power-sector.
NET-ZERO AND GEOSPHERIC RETURN: ACTIONS TODAY FOR 2030 AND BEYOND
ENERGYPOLICY.COLUMBIA.EDU | SEPTEMBER 2020   | 49
Fuss, Sabine et al. 2018. “Negative emissions—Part 2: Costs, potentials, and side effects.” 
Environmental Research Letters 13. https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/1748-9326/aabf9f. 
GCCSI. 2019a. “The LCFS and CCS Protocol: An Overview for Policymakers and Project 
Developers.” Global CCS Institute. https://www.globalccsinstitute.com/wp-content/
uploads/2019/05/LCFS-and-CCS-Protocol_digital_version-2.pdf. 
GCCSI. 2019b. “CO2RE Database, Climate Change Report.” Global CCS Institute. https://
CO2RE.co/ClimateChange.
GCCSI. 2019c. “Global Status of CCS: Targeting Climate Change.” Global CCS Institute. https://
www.globalccsinstitute.com/resources/global-status-report/.
Gillingham, K. and J.H. Stock. “The Cost of Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions.” Journal of 
Economic Perspectives 32 (4): 53–72. https://scholar.harvard.edu/stock/publications/cost-
reducing-greenhouse-gas-emissions. 
Goldman Sachs. 2020. Carbonomics: The Green Engine of Economic Recovery. Goldman 
Sachs Report. https://www.goldmansachs.com/insights/pages/gs-research/carbonomics-
green-engine-of-economic-recovery-f/report.pdf. 
Goverment of Western Australia. 2003. Barrows Island Act of 2003. https://www.legislation.
wa.gov.au/legislation/prod/filestore.nsf/FileURL/mrdoc_28973.pdf/$FILE/Barrow%20
Island%20Act%202003%20-%20%5B01-a0-03%5D.pdf?OpenElement. 
GPI. 2020. Transport Infrastructure for Carbon Capture and Storage: Regional Infrastructure for 
Midcentury Decarbonization. Great Plains institute Report. https://www.betterenergy.org/blog/
new-analysis-carbon-capture-and-storage-infrastructure-for-midcentury-decarbonization/. 
Hasanbeigi, A., R. Becque, and C. Springer. 2019. Curbing Carbon from Consumption: The Role 
of Green Public Procurement. Global Efficiency Intelligence. https://www.climateworks.org/
wp-content/uploads/2019/09/Green-Public-Procurement-Final-28Aug2019.pdf. 
Havercroft, I., T. Dixon, and S. McCoy. 2015. “Legal and Regulatory Developments on CCS.” 
International Journal of Greenhouse Gas Control 40: 431–448. https://www.sciencedirect.com/
science/article/abs/pii/S1750583615001875?via%3Dihub.
Hu et al. 2013. “Thermal, electrochemical, and photochemical conversion of CO2 to fuels 
and value-added products.” Journal of CO2 Utilization 1: 64. https://www.sciencedirect.
com/science/article/pii/S2212982013000073?casa_token= KggD8RvZ64gAAAAA: 
NItXD3vWvzRVno7LjAHrxys7t6JDDRJQl2gucdLGVFLiKQEfq6beipnafQa7aP4CE18cDWyg.
Hydrogen Council. 2017. Hydrogen scaling up: A sustainable pathway for the global 
energy transition. Hydrogen Council Report. https://hydrogencouncil.com/wp-content/
uploads/2017/11/Hydrogen-scaling-up-Hydrogen-Council.pdf.  
ICEF. 2017. “CO2 Utilization Roadmap: Innovation for a Cool Earth Forum.” ICEF Roadmap 
Series. https://www.icef-forum.org/pdf/2018/roadmap/CO2U_Roadmap_ICEF2017.pdf
NET-ZERO AND GEOSPHERIC RETURN: ACTIONS TODAY FOR 2030 AND BEYOND
50 |  CENTER ON GLOBAL ENERGY POLICY | COLUMBIA SIPA
ICEF. 2018. “Direct Air Capture of Carbon Dioxide.” ICEF Roadmap Series. https://www.icef-
forum.org/pdf/2018/roadmap/ICEF2018_DAC_Roadmap_20181210.pdf.
ICEF. 2019. “Decarbonization of Industrial Heat Roadmap: Innovation for a Cool Earth 
Forum.” ICEF Roadmap Series. https://www.icef-forum.org/pdf/2019/roadmap/ICEF_
Roadmap_201912.pdf
IEA. 2019. The Future of Hydrogen: Seizing today’s opportunities. International Energy Agency 
Report. https://www.iea.org/reports/the-future-of-hydrogen. 
IEA. 2020. World Energy Investment 2020. International Energy Agency Report. https://www.
iea.org/reports/world-energy-investment-2020.
IEA. World Energy Outlook 2019. International Energy Agency Report. https://www.iea.org/
reports/world-energy-outlook-2019. 
IEA. 2020b. Tracking Power 2020. International Energy Agency Report. https://www.iea.org/
reports/tracking-power-2020. 
IEAGHG. 2017. “CCS Industry Build-out rates—Comparison with Industry Analogues, 2014/
TR6.” https://ieaghg.org/publications/technical-reports/reports-list/10-technical-reviews/802-
2017-tr6-ccs-industry-build-out-rates-comparison-with-industry-analogues. 
IPCC. 2014. AR5 Synthesis Report—Climate Change 2014. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate 
Change Report. https://www.ipcc.ch/report/ar5/syr/. 
IPCC. 2014. AR5 Climate Change 2014: Mitigation of Climate Change. Intergovernmental Panel 
on Climate Change, Working Group 3 Report. https://www.ipcc.ch/report/ar5/wg3/. 
IPCC. 2018. Global Warming of 1.5: Special Report Summary for Policy Makers. 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Report. https://www.ipcc.ch/sr15/chapter/spm/. 
Metz, B., et al. (eds.) IPCC Special Report on Carbon Dioxide Capture and Storage. Cambridge, 
UK: Cambridge University Press, 2005. 
Kearns, J. et al. 2017, “Developing a Consistent Database for Regional Geologic CO2 
Storage Capacity Worldwide.” Energy Procedia 114: 4697–4709. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
egypro.2017.03.1603. 
Keleman et al. 2020. “Engineered carbon mineralization in ultramafic rocks for CO2 removal 
from air: Review and new insights.” Chemical Geology 550: 119628. https://www.sciencedirect.
com/science/article/pii/S0009254120301674?via%3Dihub. 
Legislative Assembly of Alberta. 2010. Bill 24, Carbon Capture and Storage Statutes 
Amendment Act 2010. Carbon Sequestration Tenure Regulation, A.R. 68/2011. https://docs.
assembly.ab.ca/LADDAR_files/docs/bills/bill/legislature_27/session_3/20100204_bill-024.pdf. 
Li, X. et al. 2009, “CO2 point emission and geological storage capacity in China.” Energy 
Procedia 1: 2793–2800. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.egypro.2009.02.051  
NET-ZERO AND GEOSPHERIC RETURN: ACTIONS TODAY FOR 2030 AND BEYOND
ENERGYPOLICY.COLUMBIA.EDU | SEPTEMBER 2020   | 51
NASEM. 2018. Negative Emissions and Reliable Storage: A Research Agenda. National 
Academies of Science, Engineering and Medicine, Report. https://www.nap.edu/catalog/25259/
negative-emissions-technologies-and-reliable-sequestration-a-research-agenda. 
NETL. 2015. Carbon Storage Atlas, 5th Edition. National Energy Technology Laboratory 
Report. https://www.netl.doe.gov/node/5841. 
NETL. 2017. Best Practices: Site Screening, Site Selection, and Site Characterization for 
Geologic Storage Projects DOE/NETL-2017/1844. National Energy Technology Laboratory 
Report. https://netl.doe.gov/node/5829. 
NPC. 2020. Meeting the Dual Challenge: A Roadmap to At-Scale Deployment of Carbon 
Capture, Use, and Storage. National Petroleum Council Report. https://dualchallenge.npc.org. 
OGCI. 2020. “CO2 Storage Resource Catalogue.” https://co2storageresourcecatalogue.com/. 
Accessed: July 2020.
Pale Blue Dot. 2018. CO2 Transportation and Storage Business Models Summary Report. Pale 
Blue Dot. https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/
attachment_data/file/677721/10251BEIS_CO2_TS_Business_Models_FINAL.pdf. 
Pilorgé, H. et al. 2020. “ Cost Analysis of Carbon Capture and Sequestration of Process 
Emissions from the U.S. Industrial Sector.” Environmental Science & Technology, 54 (12), 7524-
7532 https://pubs.acs.org/doi/10.1021/acs.est.9b07930
Rathi, A. 2019. “The world can learn from India trying to deal with its coal addiction.” Quartz 
India. https://qz.com/india/1731339/the-world-can-learn-from-india-trying-to-kick-its-coal-
addiction/.
Reid, W. et al. 2019. “The Future of Bioenergy.” Global Change Biology, 26: 274–286 https://
doi.org/10.1111/gcb.14883.
Rebsdat, S. and D. Meyer. 2001. “Ethylene Oxide,” Wiley Online Library. https://onlinelibrary.
wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1002/14356007.a10_117.
Rhodium Group, 2019. Capturing Leadership: Policies for the US to Advance Direct Air Capture 
Technology. Rhodium Group Report. https://rhg.com/research/capturing-leadership-policies-
for-the-us-to-advance-direct-air-capture-technology/. 
Rogelj, J., et al. 2018. “Mitigation Pathways Compatible with 1.5°C in the Context of Sustainable 
Development.” In: Global Warming of 1.5°C. An IPCC Special Report on the impacts of global 
warming of 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels and related global greenhouse gas emission 
pathways, in the context of strengthening the global response to the threat of climate 
change, sustainable development and efforts to eradicate poverty. Geneva, Switzerland: 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, 2018. https://www.ipcc.ch/site/assets/uploads/
sites/2/2019/02/SR15_Chapter2_Low_Res.pdf.
Socolow, R. and Pacala S. 2004. “Stabilization Wedges: Solving the Climate Problem for the 
Next 50 Years with Current Technology.” Science 305: 968–972 https://science.sciencemag.
NET-ZERO AND GEOSPHERIC RETURN: ACTIONS TODAY FOR 2030 AND BEYOND
52 |  CENTER ON GLOBAL ENERGY POLICY | COLUMBIA SIPA
org/content/305/5686/968.
SPE. 2017. CO2 Storage Resources Management System. Society of Petroleum Engineers 
Report. https://p.widencdn.net/2ckusw/SRMS.
Strupczewski, J. and G. Baczynska. 2019. “EU leaves Poland out of 2050 climate deal after 
standoff.” Reuters. December 19, 2019. https://www.reuters.com/article/us-climate-change-eu/
eu-leaves-poland-out-of-2050-climate-deal-after-standoff-idUSKBN1YG01I.
Tong D. et al. 2019. “Committed emissions from existing energy infrastructure jeopardize 1.5oC 
climate targets.” Nature 572: 373–377. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-019-1364-3.
UNEP. 2017. Emissions Gap Report. UN Environmental Programme Report. https://www.
unenvironment.org/resources/emissions-gap-report-2017.
UNEP. 2019. Emissions Gap Report. UN Environmental Programme Report. https://www.
unenvironment.org/resources/emissions-gap-report-2019.
US DOE. 2013. Recycling CO2 make plastics. US Dept. of Energy Report,  Office of Fossil 
Energy. https://www.energy.gov/fe/articles/recycling-carbon-dioxide-make-plastics.
USGS. 2013. National assessment of geologic carbon dioxide storage resources: results, 
Circular 1386. US Geological Survey Geologic Carbon Dioxide Storage Resources Assessment 
Team Report. https://pubs.er.usgs.gov/publication/cir1386.
Wallace, et. al, 2015. A Review of CO2 pipeline infrastructure in the United States DOE/NETL-
2014/1681, US Deptartment of Energy, Office of Fossil Energy Report, https://www.energy.
gov/sites/prod/files/2015/04/f22/QER%20Analysis%20-%20A%20Review%20of%20the%20
CO2%20Pipeline%20Infrastructure%20in%20the%20U.S_0.pdf.
Wind Europe. 2020. https://windeurope.org/about-wind/statistics/offshore/. Accessed 30 
July 2020.
NET-ZERO AND GEOSPHERIC RETURN: ACTIONS TODAY FOR 2030 AND BEYOND
ENERGYPOLICY.COLUMBIA.EDU | SEPTEMBER 2020   | 53
1. 
Assuming solar PV capacity factor of 0.25 for 20 MW PV capacity, 10 MW electrolyzer and 
50 kWh per kg of H2 produced and necessary large scale battery storage.
2. Assuming 50 kWh of electricity per kg of H2 produced.
3. 90 percent of this potential was via net-negative hydrogen production, combining 
biomass gasification with CCS.
4. The ratio of debt to equity in a project can vary significantly, by project specifics, 
availability of capital, and risk profile of the project owners.
5. The International Maritime Organization (IMO) acts as the secretariat for both the 
Convention and Protocol and views the Protocol as a key element of the international 
community’s response to climate change.
NOTES
NET-ZERO AND GEOSPHERIC RETURN: ACTIONS TODAY FOR 2030 AND BEYOND
54 |  CENTER ON GLOBAL ENERGY POLICY | COLUMBIA SIPA
