Cruachan Power Station 
Biodiversity Survey 2021
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1.0 Executive Summary 
 
 
3 
2.0 Introduction  
 
 
5 
3.0  Biodiversity Policy 
 
 
5
Nature Designated Sites 
 
5 
Priority Habitats & Species 
 
6 
Role of the JNCC/Red Lists  
 
6 
Wildlife & Countryside Act 
 
6
4.0 Methodology  
 
 
7 
5.0 The Survey Sites 
 
 
9 
Cruachan Reservoir 
 
 
9
South of the Dam Wall  
 
10 
Penthouse Pond 
 
 
10 
Reservoir Access Road  
 
11 
Site Offices & Visitor Centre 
 
11
6.0 Weather in 2021 
 
 
12
7.0 Breeding Bird Survey  
 
13 
Birds of Conservation Concern 5  
13 
IUCN Regional/European List 
 
16 
Systematic List 
 
 
17 
Discussion 
 
 
 
24 
8.0 Reptiles and Amphibians 
 
25 
9.0 Mammals 
 
 
 
26 
10.0 Invertebrates 
 
 
27 
Odonata 
 
 
 
27 
Hemiptera/Coleoptera  
 
30 
Lepidoptera (Moths) 
 
 
32 
Lepidoptera (Butterflies) 
 
43 
Diptera 
 
 
 
47 
Hymenoptera  
 
 
51 
11.0 Assessing the value of records 
55
Species new to NN02  
 
56 
Comparison with national datasets 
57
Produced by David Fotheringham, Blue Leaf Nature,  
for Drax Generation Enterprise Ltd, December 2021
Looking west towards the peak of Ben Lui from the reservoir access road, with the Coille Leitire and Loch Awe in the foreground
Cruachan Power Station Biodiversity Survey 2021
PAGE 2
PAGE 3
1.0 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Welcome to the 11th Biodiversity Survey Report prepared 
for Blue Leaf Nature on behalf of Cruachan Power Station.
Cruachan is a pumped storage power station with a 
capacity of 440MW situated at Loch Awe, Argyll, at grid 
reference NN0791226753. Its turbine hall is located 1km 
underground, generating water supplied from Cruachan 
Reservoir to the north of the site.
The station is set in a celebrated landscape close to one 
of the finest examples of an old oak woodland in Scotland 
and framed by the impressive massif of the Ben Cruachan 
horseshoe. Blue Leaf first carried out surveys for Cruachan 
in 2009, initially for ScottishPower. We are delighted to  
continue our work for Drax, who obtained the site in 2018.
In 2021, Blue Leaf’s surveyor visited Cruachan on nine 
days to carry out a Breeding Bird Survey (BBS), conduct a 
series of moth-trapping sessions on four nights and continue 
to monitor insects and other species.
1.1 
BREEDING BIRD SURVEY
n A total of 53 species of birds were recorded at Cruachan 
in 2021. All of these are common and widespread in Argyll 
and Scotland, associated with woodland, upland and  
waterside habitats.
n Of the 53 species recorded, 26 (49%) were Confirmed 
(C) as having nested. A further 10 (19%) species Probably 
Nested (PR) and nine (17%) were considered to have  
Possibly Nested (PO). The remaining eight (15%) species 
were not thought to be breeding in 2021 – they were seen 
outwith the nesting season or flying over the survey areas.
n Nine of the species recorded are on the Red List of birds 
of highest conservation concern in the UK. In addition, 18 
Amber List species of medium conservation concern were 
recorded along with 26 Green List birds – those that are 
deemed to have a favourable conservation status.
n A total of 12 Red and Amber List species were confirmed 
as having bred in the 2021 survey. In addition, the Green-
listed Common Raven was confirmed as having nested for 
the first time at Cruachan while Red-breasted Merganser 
was elevated to Possible Breeding.
n It was a mixed nesting season for many species with 
record low numbers of Northern Wheatear and Winter Wren 
and low breeding productivity of Blue Tit and Meadow Pipit. 
In contrast, the Red-listed Twite enjoyed an exceptional 
season in upland Cruachan.
n The 2021 report discusses the implications of Birds of 
Conservation Concern 5, the Regional IUCN Red List  
assessment and the European Red List review and how  
they affect the conservation status of Cruachan’s birds.
1.2 
MAMMAL REPORT
n It proved an exciting year for sightings of large mammals 
with the addition of Eurasian Badger to the Cruachan site list 
while Red Squirrel and Red Fox were both seen using the 
station’s landholdings for the first time. Six species of  
mammal were recorded in 2021, with European Otter and 
Pine Marten also present at the station.
n The 2021 report discusses a new biometric survey project 
that identified “high concern” over species such as Weasel, 
Bank Vole, Field Vole and Common Shrew, all of which have 
been recorded at Cruachan Power Station.
1.3 
INVERTEBRATE SURVEY
n A total of 150 species of insects were recorded during  
fieldwork at Cruachan in 2021. These include 78 species
of macro-moth; 26 true-flies; 16 sawflies, bees and wasps; 
12 beetles; 11 butterflies; five dragonflies; and two types of 
bug. This compares to 179 species recorded in 2018, 160 in 
2017 and 145 in 2016.
n The report discusses The State of Dragonflies 2021, 
released by the British Dragonfly Society, which describes 
the 50-year population trends of many Odonata species in 
Britain and Ireland. It highlights that five of the six species 
that have shown the greatest decreases in national  
occupancy are species that occur at Cruachan.
n Four moth-trapping sessions were held that resulted in 
271 moths of 78 species being identified. These included 
22 species (28%), that were recorded for the first time at 
the station’s landholdings. This increases to 179 the total 
number of different moth species for Cruachan.
n The report discusses The State of Britain’s Larger Moths 
(Butterfly Conservation 2021). The new report highlights the 
continuing decline of Britain’s moth fauna, with four times 
as many moth species decreasing in abundance as those 
increasing their population. Among those struggling are a 
number of montane species found at Cruachan.
n A total of 23 moths that are included on the Red and 
Amber Data Lists have now been recorded at Cruachan with 
the addition of one Red List moth – Dark-barred Twin-spot 
Carpet – and five Amber List moths in 2021.
n Butterfly Conservation’s UK Conservation Strategy for 
2025 is discussed along with the charity’s plans for the  
creation of a High Priority Landscape for butterflies and 
moths in Argyll, including Cruachan area, and its priorities for 
conservation of species found at the power station.
n Eleven butterfly species were recorded in 2021 including 
two new for the survey: an Endangered species, Chequered 
Skipper, and the common and widespread Small Copper.
n A total of 26 species of true-flies were recorded along with 
16 species of sawflies, wasps and bees – but it proved a 
disappointing year with low numbers of insects present.
n Nine insect species recorded are apparently new to 
Cruachan’s 10km2 hectad NN02. These include one beetle, 
three macro-moths, three crane-flies, a sawfly and a mining 
bee. Since the survey started at Cruachan in 2009, a total of 
288 species, apparently new to NN02, have been recorded 
by Blue Leaf at the power station’s landholdings.
Chequered Skipper was found for the first time at Cruachan
Cruachan Power Station Biodiversity Survey 2021
PAGE 4
Masses of Yellow 
Saxifrage, a rocky 
outcrop specialist,  
on road margins at  
Cruachan Reservoir
2.0 
INTRODUCTION
Welcome to the 11th Cruachan Power Station biodiversity 
survey report by Blue Leaf Nature. 
This detailed account is based on nine fieldwork visits  
carried out in 2021 that aimed to develop station  
management’s understanding of the fauna and flora at the 
station’s landholdings at Cruachan, near Lochawe, Argyll. 
Blue Leaf carried out its first survey for Cruachan in 2009 
and has since delivered a series of reports that describe the 
breeding birds, mammals, invertebrates and other species 
that are present on its landholdings and areas that may be 
affected by station operations. 
We have also produced detailed reports discussing  
Cruachan and the Global Reporting Initiative, Invasive  
Non-native Species at the site and a habitat survey.
Blue Leaf returned to Cruachan in 2021 after a two-year 
absence. The broad objectives during the year were to: 
n Continue the Breeding Bird Survey (BBS), plotting 
changes since 2009 and confirming, if possible, additional 
bird species as having bred. 
n Monitor invertebrate species to improve the site’s knowl-
edge of several under-recorded families. In particular, to 
examine in greater detail the moth diversity at the site, by 
carrying out trapping with artificial lights. 
Cruachan Power Station is located at NN080267 to the 
west of the village of Lochawe. Its boundary encloses a wide 
range of habitats – from the reservoir on the slopes of Ben 
Cruachan to the office gardens by the banks of Loch Awe.
The report examines the ecological context of the survey 
at Cruachan, the main focus areas for fieldwork and the 
best-practice survey methodologies that were used. 
The findings of this year’s effort are presented in the 
report’s systematic list along with a discussion of the latest 
conservation status of the species that were recorded.
The various surveys help to form an inventory of species 
and provide a baseline against which changes in species’ 
occurrence and population can be measured going forward. 
Such fundamental information will be particularly important 
in the context of any future development at Cruachan Power 
Station. Finally, the significance, in a local and national  
context, of each species recorded in 2021 is also explored. 
3.0 
ECOLOGICAL CONTEXT
3.1 
DESIGNATED SITES 
The United Kingdom supports a wide variety of species and 
habitats that are deemed important in a local, national and 
international context. 
The key policy tool for conserving special areas and 
important wildlife is the designation and management of 
protected sites – areas of land, inland water and the sea that 
have special legal protection. Such protection to prevent 
damaging activities is enshrined in international treaties as 
well as European and UK legislation. 
Cruachan Power Station is on or adjacent to the Coille 
Leitire Site of Special Scientific Interest (SSSI), designated in 
1986, which is a native broadleaved woodland on the north 
edge of Loch Awe.
SSSI designations protect wildlife and land features of 
outstanding quality and are notified in Scotland by NatureScot  
(formerly Scottish Natural Heritage) under the Nature  
Conservation (Scotland) Act 2004. Under SSSI legislation, 
landowners and operators must inform NatureScot and  
gain consent for any proposed operation that may affect the 
notified features of the protected sites.
The woodland is also a component in the wider Loch Etive 
Woods Special Area of Conservation (SAC) designated site 
and the power station is adjacent to the Loch Etive and Glen 
Fyne Special Protection Area (SPA), designated in 2010 for 
Golden Eagle Aquila chrysaetos.
SACs are designated to protect rare or vulnerable habitats 
and species that are listed in the 1992 EU Habitats Directive. 
SACs are designated in Scotland under the Conservation 
(Natural Habitats) Regulations 1994 (as amended). 
Special Protection Areas are selected to protect one or 
more rare, threatened or vulnerable bird species listed in 
Annex I of the Birds Directive, or certain regularly occurring 
migratory species.
Although the UK has left the EU, the Scottish Parliament 
has passed legislation to ensure that Scotland’s nature will 
remain protected to the same standard as before.
3.1.1 
COILLE LEITIRE SSSI 
The Coille Leitire woodland SSSI extends over 101 hectares 
and is notified for its Atlantic oak woodland features and its 
resident population of European Otter Lutra lutra. 
The mixed deciduous woodland has a rich field layer of  
tall herbs and woodland grasses and is dissected by  
numerous burns, some with spectacular gorges, that  
support rich assemblages of ferns and stoneworts that 
require shade and high humidity to thrive. 
The site supports a strong woodland bird community and 
its invertebrate fauna includes the Scottish Biodiversity List 
(SBL) butterflies Pearl-bordered Fritillary Boloria euphrosyne 
and Small Pearl-bordered Fritillary Bolaria selene. 
Cruachan’s Site Offices, Visitor Centre and Contractors 
Compound are within 20m of the Coille Leitire’s southern 
boundary, which starts on the north side of the Glasgow to 
Oban railway line. 
Within the SSSI are two water sources serving the  
station. A small pool, measuring approximately 4m x 3m,  
at NN07962686 provides water for the Contractors  
Compound. A rough stone-built dam about 1m high  
contains the water that is piped to the compound. 
The second source at NN08142671, which serves the 
Site Offices and Visitor Centre, is a much more permanent 
PAGE 5
The Coille Leitire SSSI is home to several important species 
such as the SBL-listed butterfly Small Pearl-bordered Fritillary
structure. It consists of a concrete water trap, 6m x 4m, that 
intercepts a stream that tumbles in a mini waterfall into a 
pool approximately 4m x 3m and 2m deep. 
Meanwhile, the north edge of the Coille Leitire SSSI is  
adjacent to the Cruachan Reservoir Access Road for about 
1.5km of its length and the woodland heavily infuences the 
range of birds, mammals and other species present. 
The management statement for Coille Leitire recommends 
removal of invasive Rhododendrons to the north of the site, 
to prevent their spread into the SSSI. 
The SSSI’s management statement also highlights the 
beneficial impact of the powerline wayleaves associated 
with Cruachan, adding: “The electricity company periodically 
removes encroaching scrub from wayleaves. This practice is 
not detrimental but [creates] ideal conditions for  
invertebrates such as the Small Pearl-bordered Fritillary.” 
3.1.2 
LOCH ETIVE WOODS SAC 
The Coille Leitire SSSI is a component in a wider protected 
area designation, the Loch Etive Woods Special Area of 
Conservation (SAC). 
The SAC consists of nine distinct ancient woodlands  
covering 2,639 hectare in North Argyll and Highland. 
Loch Etive Woods is considered one of the finest old  
Sessile Oak Quercus petraea woodlands in the UK. Its  
qualifying features include its old Sessile woodlands, such  
as found at Coille Leitire and nearby Glen Nant, and its  
Tilio-Acerion forests that occurs in the deeply-incised  
rocky gorges and ravines, including canopy species such as 
Common Ash Fraxinus excelsior.
3.1.3 
LOCH ETIVE AND GLEN FYNE SPA 
Meanwhile, the Loch Etive and Glen Fyne Special Protection 
Area (SPA), designated in 2010 for Golden Eagle, includes 
the entire Ben Cruachan range and area to the south,  
enclosing Cruachan Reservoir. 
On its west side, the SPA extends down to the main road 
at the Pass of Brander. The SPA boundary follows the 150m 
contour east from the reservoir site. The SPA extends over 
81,104ha, divided into two distinct sections: Glen Etive to 
the north and Glen Fyne to the south. 
3.2 
PRIORITY HABITATS AND SPECIES 
The allocation of resources and prioritisation of biodiversity 
action in the UK has been guided by the development of the 
UK Biodiversity Action Plan (UK BAP), which was developed 
by the UK Government to meet its commitments under the 
Convention of Biological Diversity, signed at the Rio Earth 
Summit in 1992. 
Since December 2012, responsibility for implementing 
biodiversity improvement has been passed to the devolved 
authorities, including the Scottish Government. 
The Scottish Biodiversity List (SBL) strategy was first 
published in 2004 as Scotland’s response to its obligations 
under the Convention of Biological Diversity and the UK BAP. 
The strategy, last updated in 2009, highlights those  
animals, plants and habitats that are considered to be of 
principal importance for biodiversity conservation in  
Scotland – for instance those that are rare in a Scottish 
context or undergoing a decline in population. 
The SBL has cascaded down to local government – a 
local biodiversity action plan is administered by Argyll and 
Bute Biodiversity Partnership, a coalition of more than 30 
organisations including Argyll and Bute Council. 
The current version of the plan operated between 2016 
and 2021 and is due to be updated. 
The Plan has adopted an ecosystems approach to the 
protection of habitats and species – three of the ecosystems 
are relevant to Cruachan Power Station: Freshwater and 
Wetland, Woodland and Upland. 
Using this approach and working with partners and 
landowners, the Plan seeks to improve habitat quality and 
extend habitat connectivity to help the species present.
3.3 ROLE OF THE JNCC/RED DATA LISTS 
The Joint Nature Conservation Committee (JNCC) is the 
statutory adviser to the UK Government on UK and  
international nature conservation. 
The work of the JNCC contributes to maintaining and 
enriching biological diversity, conserving landscapes and 
habitats and sustaining natural systems. 
JNCC is also involved in surveillance that provides status 
information for terrestrial and freshwater species, some 
marine species and terrestrial habitats. Reports on the 
Cruachan Power Station Biodiversity Survey 2021
PAGE 6
UK populations for many creatures and plants have been 
compiled as part of the JNCC Species Status Assessment 
Project. 
These include the Population Status of Birds in the UK 
(Gregory et al 2002) that placed birds in one of three lists – 
Red, Amber or Green. 
Red List species are those of the highest conservation 
concern usually due to a long-term or rapid population  
decline or contraction in their breeding range. Amber List 
species are those of medium conservation concern while 
Green List species enjoy favourable conservation status. 
The lists of birds of conservation concern were  
reviewed in December 2021 in the document Birds of  
Conservation Concern 5 (BoCC5, Stanbury et al 2021)  
and the systematic list in this year’s report includes tables 
showing the latest conservation status for the bird species 
recorded at Cruachan Power Station. 
Similar JNCC status reports exist for vascular plants, 
mammals, dragonflies, freshwater fish, other branches of 
invertebrates, fungi, lichens and mosses, liverworts and  
stoneworts etc – and these follow a similar selection criterion 
to that of birds. The following species summaries include 
reference, where applicable, to those that appear on the 
various Red Data Lists. 
3.4 WILDLIFE AND COUNTRYSIDE ACT 1981 
The Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981 and its  
amendments is the principal mechanism for the legislative 
protection of birds, animals and plants in Great Britain. 
Part 1 of the Act legislates for the protection of birds, 
animals and plants. For instance it prohibits the intentional 
killing, injuring or taking of any wild bird and taking or 
destroying eggs. Species listed on Schedule 1 enjoy even 
greater protection and it is an offence to disturb these birds 
at the nest. 
There are other schedules that offer similar protections for 
wild animals, mammals and plants. Schedule 9 of the Act 
deals with invasive animals and plants. 
At Cruachan Power Station and its assets, Part 1 of the 
Act is of importance in relation to the presence of protected 
species that may breed on the station land or may be  
affected by station operations. 
4.0 
METHODOLOGY
 
4.1 
PROCEDURE 
The visits to Cruachan Power Station followed a procedure 
that was established in 2009, when Blue Leaf was first  
commissioned to undertake biodiversity work. 
Station boundaries and areas of operation were identified, 
health, safety and environmental considerations were  
established – particularly lone working in a potentially  
hazardous environment – and procedures were set out for 
site visits and reporting. A meeting was held in June 2021 
with Environmental Advisor Roddy Davies, at which survey 
procedures were reviewed. 
4.2 
BREEDING BIRD SURVEY 
A Breeding Bird Survey (BBS) forms the main element of 
the biodiversity species survey carried out by Blue Leaf at 
Cruachan in 2021. The BBS is based on the methodology 
devised jointly by the British Trust for Ornithology (BTO), 
Royal Society for the Protection of Birds (RSPB) and JNCC. 
The methodology requires three visits to be made to a 
site in the breeding season, from March to July, to gather 
evidence of birds’ breeding status.
Two transects have been plotted and have now been in 
use since the first survey in 2009. One transect runs along 
the western edge of Cruachan Reservoir while the other runs 
from the dam wall, at 340m above sea level, south to 276m.
A third transect was established in 2017 to improve the 
surveillance of woodland and grassland birds at the  
reservoir access road, and this was continued in 2021. 
The 1km route runs west along the roadway from the site 
of the former entrance gate. Birds observed on all three 
transects are recorded along with notes about behaviour 
indicative of breeding taking place.
The limited landholdings at the Station Offices/Visitor 
Centre and elsewhere at the reservoir road make it more 
practical to plot birds seen or heard on to a base map.
Other areas, outwith the three key study sites, such as 
the ‘Penthouse Pond’ and elsewhere along the dam access 
road, were visited several times over the survey period to 
assess the species present. Cruachan Substation has not 
been included in the Breeding Bird Survey since 2014. 
PAGE 7
Cruachan Power Station Biodiversity Survey 2021
PAGE 8
4.2.2 
DETERMINATION OF BREEDING STATUS 
The behaviour, sex, age and location of individual birds  
recorded allow conclusions to be reached about their 
breeding status, based on three categories devised by the 
European Ornithological Atlas Committee (EOAC) 1979. 
The categories are: Confirmed (C), Probable Breeder (PR) 
and Possible Breeder (PO) – although it is also possible that 
a bird may be merely present in a habitat and not breeding. 
Breeding evidence in this report follows EOAC guidelines. 
Examples of confirmed breeding could include an adult 
bird carrying a faecal sac or food for nestlings; adults  
carrying out distraction displays or showing anxiety near 
a possible nest site; a nest with eggs or young; or fledged 
juveniles that have recently left their nest. 
Breeding can be considered probable if a territory has 
been established for a period of longer than two weeks; if  
a pair of birds is seen in suitable habitat; if courtship is  
observed; or if adults are seen with nesting material.  
Possible breeding can be assumed if a bird is found in  
suitable habitat on a single visit. 
4.3 
INVERTEBRATE SURVEYS 
A range of methodologies was employed to survey  
invertebrates at Cruachan. These follow guidance in the 
Natural England report NERR005 ‘Surveying terrestrial and 
freshwater invertebrates for conservation evaluation’  
(Drake, C.M et al 2007).
The principal aim of the Blue Leaf survey was to produce 
an indicative list of species that are present at Cruachan so 
that their conservation value could be assessed.
Sunny, south-facing and sheltered sites, with a range 
of vegetation types and structures, were prime areas for 
searches. Such sites include the Visitor Centre meadow, the 
north embankment of the contractors compound, the north 
side of the Reservoir Road and the Penthouse Pond. 
Flowering plants, sunny leaf surfaces, tall stalks and 
stems, fenceposts and tree trunks and open areas, were all 
visually searched, for instance, for flies and aculeates.  
Objects, such as rocks, were lifted to look for beetles. 
Blue Leaf has scaled down its efforts to record some of 
the more complex species of insect. Usually, specimens of 
difficult tribes that could not be identified in the field are  
collected and retained for laboratory investigation. Only  
12 specimens were collected in 2021 with a resulting  
time-saving, both in the field and in microscopy work. 
Blue Leaf carried out moth trapping on four nights at 
Cruachan Visitor Centre, Cruachan Reservoir and the  
reservoir access road, using a range of artificial light traps. 
The traps were positioned in suitable habitat before dark 
and the bright light attracted moths to a collecting box, 
where they roosted before being examined by the surveyor 
the following morning, then released unharmed. 
Best practice, as described in the Moth Recorders  
Handbook (Randle 2013), was followed in delivering the  
sessions and handling the catch. The handbook establishes 
standard procedures for trapping and the care of the catch. 
4.4 
SURVEY LIMITATIONS 
Visits were planned, often at short notice, to take  
advantage of optimum weather conditions for undertaking 
wildlife surveys. However, it is not possible to record every 
bird, butterfly or plant etc. on a site during six visits and it is 
likely that some species could have been overlooked. 
The weather in 2021 was remarkable for its dry April, wet 
May and unsettled spring and summer that would have 
had an effect on the species present during fieldwork visits. 
The implications for wildlife at Cruachan are examined in a 
weather summary on page 13. 
DATE
TIME
WEATHER CONDITIONS
17 May
1600-0000
11ºC, light SE wind, overcast, after rain in morning
18 May
0000-1130
10ºC, light S wind, mostly cloud, occasional showers
31 May
0830-1600
9-17ºC, light SE wind, mostly cloudy after bright start
17 Jun
1500-0000
16ºC, light WSW wind, fair and sunny spells
18 Jun
0000-1430
6-15ºC, light W wind, bright start, cloudy from noon
13 Jul
1400-0000
17ºC, still but WSW wind afternoon, mostly cloudy
14 Jul
0000-1630
12-17ºC, light W wind, foggy start then mostly cloud
23 Aug
1800-0000
18ºC, variable winds, foggy start clearing from 1100
24 Aug
0000-1530
13-19ºC, largely still, partly cloud then fair from 1000
TABLE 1: FIELDWORK DATES AT CRUACHAN 2021
The “Cruachan Bowl”, south of the dam, is bisected by the Allt Cruachan burn, with areas of acid grassland and mire vegetation
5.0 
THE SURVEY SITES
5.1 
CRUACHAN RESERVOIR 
Cruachan Reservoir, at an altitude of 340m above sea level, 
is a man-made waterbody constructed for the storage and 
supply of water to Cruachan Power Station, a pumped  
storage plant that produces around 10% of its generated 
output from conventional hydro operations. 
The reservoir occupies an area of approximately 44ha 
and is bounded on three sides by the Cruachan horseshoe, 
which rises to a height of 1126m at Ben Cruachan, the  
highest peak in Argyll. At its southwestern edge, a 316m-
long buttress dam contains the water of the reservoir. 
Land around the edges of the reservoir is unenclosed 
open hill ground, grazed by sheep. The habitat is largely 
semi-improved acid grassland with pockets of unimproved 
grassland and marsh supporting the typically vegetative 
communities that exist in acidic podzols and peat. 
The characteristic plants around the reservoir include  
various grasses and sedges, and mosses of the genus 
Sphagnum. Typical wildflowers include Tormentil Potentilla 
erecta, Common Lousewort Pedocularis auriculata, Heath 
Spotted-orchid Dactylorhiza maculata, Creeping Thistle  
Cirsium arvensis and Marsh Thistle Cirsium palustre, with 
small numbers of other species such as Common Dog-violet 
Viola riviniana. In general, however, the habitat at Cruachan 
Reservoir lacks botanical interest, likely as a result of  
overgrazing by sheep. 
A steep area of road embankment in the southeast corner 
of the reservoir contains a richer diversity of plant species, 
including Arctic-alpine saxifrages. Another characteristic  
of the reservoir’s surrounds is large numbers of granite  
boulders that provide habitat for mountain-breeding birds, 
although these occur in low densities. 
Survey method: A 1.5km transect has been established 
from NN08262942 at 415m above sea level to NN07812813 
at 400m above sea level. This route (mapped in previous 
reports), along the western edge of the reservoir, is walked 
and birds seen or heard plotted on a BBS record sheet. 
Casual monitoring of other wildlife takes place and, in 2021, 
moth trapping took place on a single night near the reservoir 
and at the access road to the southeast of the dam. 
PAGE 9
The 316-metre long buttress dam at Cruachan Reservoir is the obvious landmark in the upland areas of the survey site
Cruachan Power Station Biodiversity Survey 2021
PAGE 10
5.2 
SOUTH OF THE DAM WALL
The Allt Cruachan burn and an access road to the west side 
of the dam structure dissect the large bowl-shaped area 
south of the dam wall. 
This area was not adequately surveyed in between May 
and late July 2021, as an extensive area of land was being 
used by a film crew, and their apparatus, involved in the 
production of a new television series. The area is dominated 
by semi-improved acid grassland, with Sharp-flowered Rush 
Juncus acutiflorus rush mire in wetter areas at the south and 
east of the site, and small areas of tertiary habitats including 
flush and Bracken Pterodium aquilinum. 
Species present are similar to those listed above but  
include wet grassland species such as the carnivorous 
plants Round-leaved Sundew Drosera rotundifolia and  
Common Butterwort Pinguicula vulgaris, plus Common 
Cotton-grass Eriophorum angustifolium, Bog-myrtle Myrica 
gale and Devil’s-bit Scabious Succisa pratensis.
The area has a limited range of breeding birds but the  
Allt and its wetlands host a varied invertebrate assemblage 
and was the site of the only Cruachan record of Beautiful 
Demoiselle Calopteryx virgo. The river has also hosted  
amphibians, including Palmate Newt Lissotriton helveticus.
Survey method: A 1km transect has been established 
from NN07922792 at 340m above sea level to NN08092736 
at 276m above sea level, just above the tree line. This route 
is walked and birds seen or heard are plotted on a record 
sheet. Casual monitoring of other wildlife takes place on the 
transect walk. 
5.3 THE PENTHOUSE POND
The Penthouse Pond is the name given by Blue Leaf to  
identify a small permanent pool at NN0797227658,  
approximately 0.7km south of Cruachan Reservoir.
Despite measuring just 20m x 7m, the waterbody is an 
oasis of freshwater life in an area generally lacking in other 
pond features. Around 1.5m deep at its south end, the pool 
becomes increasingly shallow then grades out into marsh 
and wet grassland at its north and west edges.
As an eutrophic standing water, it has high levels of  
nutrients and supports healthy populations of invertebrates. 
The presence of various water snails and a small colony of  
The Penthouse Pond, south of Cruachan Reservoir, provides conditions for eight species of dragonfly and a colony of newts
PAGE 11
Palmate Newt Lissotriton helveticus is an indicator of  
excellent water quality. The Pond is also is the key site for  
damselflies and dragonflies in the survey area, hosting up to 
eight breeding species.
There is limited marginal vegetation, possibly due to  
grazing, but this includes various sedges, Common  
Cottongrass Eriophorum angustifolium, Soft Rush Juncus 
effusus and Purple Moor-grass Molinia caerulea.
5.4 
THE RESERVOIR ROAD 
The Reservoir Access Road extends for approximately 5km 
and permits vehicles to access Cruachan Reservoir from 
Lochawe Village (NN11262660). The single-track metalled 
road starts at 50m above sea level but climbs to 350m 
beside the reservoir dam wall. 
For much of its length, the road runs parallel to the Coille 
Leitire SSSI. The mixed deciduous woodland is particularly 
close to the road at the eastern, lower end – where a new 
transect route was established in 2017. 
Drax own both the road and its immediate margins and 
maintenance has been carried out in recent years both to 
cut back where vegetation is encroaching the roadway and 
to realign areas of embankment to prevent rock falls. 
The Reservoir Access Road was highlighted as an area of 
High Biodiversity Value in Blue Leaf’s report Biodiversity at 
Cruachan and the GRI Index (Fotheringham 2010), mainly for 
its interesting rockface plant community. 
These are found on the steepest parts of the road  
embankment in the west part of its route and include  
Arctic-alpine plants such as Yellow Saxifrage Saxifraga 
aizoides, Starry Saxifrage Saxifraga stellaris and Alpine 
Lady’s-mantle Alchemilla alpina. Elsewhere along its length, 
the road margins contain a range of nectar plants that have 
proven important for feeding insects. Since 2015, eroded 
areas of road embankment have been examined for nesting 
solitary bees and wasps. Key survey areas include: 
n NN1202656: The vegetated road margins north of 
Loch Awe village. Key species: Salix saplings, Juncus wet 
meadow, Marsh Thistle, Devil’s-bit Scabious. Solitary wasps 
and bees, Common Lizard Zootoca vivipara, Pearl-bordered 
Fritillary, Small Pearl-bordered Fritillary.
n NN10802646: The vegetated road margins near a river 
The reservoir access road extends for almost 5km from Lochawe village to Cruachan Dam, passing through a range of habitats
gorge. Key species: Salix saplings, Juncus wet meadow, 
bracken, Tormentil, White Clover Trifolium repens. Pollinating 
insects, including Blaeberry Bumblebee Bombus monticola.
n NN09492649 and NN08452698: Eroded road  
embankments. Key species: Tormentil, Wild Thyme  
Thymus serpyllim, Bird’s-foot Trefoil Lotus corniculatus.  
Pearl-bordered Fritillary. Pollinating insects.
n  NN08182807: Exposed rockface near Cruachan  
Reservoir. Key species: Yellow Saxifrage, Starry Saxifrage, 
Tormentil, Alpine Lady’s-mantle, Rose-root Rhodiola rosea. 
Yellow-ringed Carpet Entephria flavicinctata, Grey Mountain 
Carpet Entephria caesiata, Red Carpet Xanthorhoe  
decoloraria. Pollinating insects.
In 2021, Blue Leaf carried out moth surveys for the first 
time at the dam road as it was not possible to carry out 
night-time trapping at the dam, due to security issues so 
close to the film set.
Survey method: The new BBS transect starts from the 
site of the former entrance gate (NN11262659) and  
continues west for 1km to (NN10552638) near the  
shepherd’s cottage. Spot checks of other parts of the road 
are also carried out. 
5.5 
SITE OFFICES AND VISITOR CENTRE 
Located on the northwest shore of Loch Awe, Cruachan’s 
Site Offices and Visitor Centre landholdings occupy an area 
of approx 32 hectares. 
The grounds contain the station offices and workshops, 
storage areas, the Visitor Centre, hardstanding for car  
parking and areas of gardens. The gardens are laid out with 
native and naturalised species of shrubs and trees. 
Native species include Common Ash Fraxinus excelsior, 
Common Hawthorn Crataegus monogyna, Downy Birch 
Betula pubescens, Common Rowan Sorbus aucuparia and 
some mature Sessile Oak Quercus petraea trees. A number 
of naturalised species are also present including Sycamore 
Acer pseudoplatanus, Eucalyptus Eucalyptus globulus and 
non-native conifers plus shrubs such as Rhododendron  
Rhododendron ponticum and the buddleia species Buddleja 
davidii and Buddleja globulosa.  
The car parks are bordered by perennial lawn but the  
less-intensively managed road embankment north of the 
Visitor Centre building, and other parts of the site, have 
been set aside as a ‘wild garden’ or mini wildflower meadow 
as part of the former Cruachan Biodiversity Action Plan. 
The banks of the loch are overgrown with Common Gorse 
Ulex europaeus, providing cover and foraging for wildlife. 
To the north of the tailrace, trees include Ash, Sycamore 
and Downy Birch, backed by more dense scrub, mostly 
blackberry, with emerging saplings and tall herbs, notably 
Rosebay Willow-Herb Chamerion angustifolium.
The station gardens hosts mainly a woodland breeding 
bird assemblage and water birds are often seen on Loch 
Awe. The site has held breeding Pine Marten Martes martes 
in past years while Red Squirrel Sciurus vulgaris may have 
nested in 2021.
The area is also well-watched for insect species and a 
number of “first” records for Argyll Mainland have been 
recorded at the Site Office, Visitor Centre and Contractors 
Compound grounds, such as 
Blue Leaf has carried out moth trapping at the Visitor 
Centre, Site Offices and Contractors Compound on the 
north side of the A85 since 2017 – and this was continued 
in 2021. A trail camera was installed close to the loch edge 
at NN0769826838 and this operated between May and July, 
providing 24-hour surveillance of the area.
Survey Methods: The 400m length of the compound is 
walked and birds seen or heard are logged on a base map 
along with casual monitoring of other wildlife. In addition, 
species observed on Loch Awe are recorded, as are birds 
seen or heard on the north side of the A85 that could  
conceivably hold territory at the station grounds.
Cruachan Power Station Biodiversity Survey 2021
PAGE 12
5.6 
FILM CREWS AT CRUACHAN
Unusually, Blue Leaf’s fieldwork in the early part  
of 2021 took place against the backdrop of  
Cruachan Reservoir area being used as a film set 
for a lavish new television series.
On the first visit, in mid May, the production 
teams were only starting to move on to the site but, 
by the time filming had ceased in July, hundreds of 
people – crew, actors and extras – had been at the 
upland area and filming took place at night, with 
the Cruachan Bowl illuminated by bright spotlights.
Security was heightened and the Blue Leaf  
surveyor was deterred from carrying out work at 
usual areas of interest, such as the Allt Cruachan 
and Penthouse Pond, and conducting early-year 
moth trapping at the dam and approach roads.
There may have been some disturbance to  
species as a result of all this activity. 
Northern Wheatear Oenanthe oenanthe occurred 
at its lowest population levels ever at Cruachan 
Reservoir in 2021 and Common Snipe Gallinago 
gallinago only started territorial behaviour once the 
site had been vacated.
How much the filming affected species cannot be  
quantified – poor weather in May and early June 
complicates the picture, and several species away 
from the dam appear to have had poor breeding  
success. In addition, some species, such as Twite, 
appear to have had a productive season.
In the aftermath of the filming, it was clear there 
was some local disturbance to vegetation  
communities, particularly close to Allt Cruachan 
and the Penthouse. Although these communities 
are botanically poor, of greater concern was the 
method of remediation that was employed to 
restore the affected sites – high-nutrient material, 
apparently a animal dung mix, was introduced to 
soils that, at Cruachan, are low-nutrient and acidic. 
We would expect to see a flush of rank vegetation 
and weeds emerging as a result.
One of the remediated areas following filming in 2021
Cruachan tailrace and looking west along banks of Loch Awe
PAGE 13
6.0 
WEATHER IN 2021
The year was notable for extended spells of unsettled weather 
that made planning survey work difficult and impacted on the 
species present.
Most notably one of the driest, sunniest Aprils on record 
was followed by an exceptionally dull, wet and cold May that 
effectively halted spring in its tracks.
April was cool, with the mean temperature 1.5°C below the 
long-term average and a run of particularly cold, frosty nights. 
However, it was very dry – the sixth driest in since 1862 – and 
sunshine totals were 160% of average, making it the sunniest 
April since 1919.
In contrast, May was unsettled, cold and often windy. 
The mean temperature for the month was 1.2°C below the 
long-term average, with more frosts than usual. Scotland had 
130% of average rainfall, and sunshine totals were 80% of 
average.
While BirdTrack reported an early arrival of most summer 
migrants in Scotland in April, the cool weather impacted on 
the start of the breeding season. 
Insectivorous species such as Tree Pipit, Northern  
Wheatear, Willow Warbler and Barn Swallow all showed  
significantly reduced reporting rates in Argyll in May,  
compared with the historical average, and this continued into 
June with numbers of sightings being depressed.
This suggests the nesting season was suffering difficulties 
and there was evidence on the ground at Cruachan. A pair 
of Blue Tit using the monitored nestbox at the Site Offices 
delayed egg-laying until June but suffered egg failures and 
mortality of chicks in the nest, likely as a result of food  
shortages, resulting in only three juveniles fledged. 
Meanwhile, the number of territories of species such as 
Winter Wren and Northern Wheatear were the lowest since 
records began at Cruachan.
The cold and wet weather in May likely had a profound 
impact on insects too, delaying emergence and causing  
mortality of insects in their early stages, with a knock-on  
effect up the food chain by reducing the availability of  
larvae for breeding birds. Past Cruachan reports have drawn 
a correlation between wet and cold weather in spring and a 
negative impact on insect species later in the summer. 
It is now thought that the cause of declines may be more 
complex and relate to the cumulative effects of adverse 
weather events, such as drought in summer followed by mild 
winters and wet springs that may impact on larval survival. 
It is now accepted that the abundance of a given species is 
likely to be related to the productivity of the last generation of 
the previous year.
Numbers of insects recorded in the survey were very low 
in May and June. None of the butterfly species recorded at 
Cruachan were abundant, reflecting national survey work  
that declared that butterfly populations in 2021 were at their 
lowest level for 12 years.
The June moth-trapping session at the Visitor Centre/Site 
Offices was hugely disappointing, with only 22 moths trapped, 
while spring and early summer were notable for the almost 
total absence of hoverflies – just two species on 31/5 and one 
species on the June visit (18/6).
June saw variable temperatures and weather was largely 
unsettled until the second half of the month, which was drier. 
This improving picture continued into July, which was the 
third warmest since 1884, with maximum temperatures 2-3°C 
above average across western parts of Scotland.
Birds may have made belated efforts to raise new or second 
broods. Common Snipe was still holding territory at Cruachan 
Reservoir on 13/7, when the first Meadow Pipit and Northern 
Wheatear fledglings had finally emerged near the dam. At the 
Loch Awe sites, Spotted Flycatcher was feeding juveniles in 
July and there was a late brood of European Robin in August, 
which saw a return to more seasonal conditions. 
The provisional mean temperature for August was 0.6°C 
above the long-term average and the west coast was drier 
and sunnier than normal. The most productive moth-trapping 
sessions of the year took place in July and August, while 
the improved conditions saw a late surge of dragonflies at 
the site, an improving diversity of hoverflies and the highest 
counts all year of most species of bumblebee.
Graph 1 highlights the impact of the drought in 2020 
(orange line), with a trough in August/September that 
indicates a crash in hoverfly numbers reported to the 
Hoverfly Recording Scheme, followed by the cold and 
wet May 2021 (blue bars) showing a similar severe 
reduction in sightings as a result of the weather.
Graph 2 illustrates Northern Wheatear sightings in 
Scotland reported to the BTO’s BirdTrack app – while 
birds returned in the summer around normal times, 
the reporting rate in May and June was significantly 
reduced. It was a similar picture for other species.
Cruachan Power Station Biodiversity Survey 2021
PAGE 14
TABLE 2: SPECIES OF CONSERVATION CONCERN AT CRUACHAN, OLD AND NEW STATUS AND POPULATION TRENDS 
7.0 
BIRDS
7.1 
BIRDS OF CONSERVATION CONCERN REVIEW
The status of British birds of conservation concern  
underwent a major review in 2021, resulting in significant 
changes to the composition of the Red, Amber and Green 
Data Lists. 
Birds of Conservation Concern 5 (BoCC5), published in 
December 2021, assessed 245 species in light of the latest 
information about trends in range, population and threats. 
As a result, several species have been reassigned within the 
lists to reflect their greater or reduced conservation concern. 
The Red List now increases to 70 species (from 36 at  
the outset of the review process in 1996 and 67 in the  
previous 2015 assessment). The number of Amber List  
species increases to 103 species (96 in BoCC4), while there 
are nine fewer on the Green List (now 72), as species are 
elevated to higher conservation risk categories.
The review affects how species seen at Cruachan Power 
Station are assigned to the new lists. In this section, we  
explore the implications of BoCC5, which identifies more 
than half (51%) of the 79 species recorded at the station 
since 2009 as being birds of conservation concern.
After the new review, the number of Red List species 
recorded at Cruachan remains at 17, the same as following 
the 2015 study (BoCC4). However, there have been changes 
within the list with two species dropping to the Amber List as 
a result of an improving conservation outlook while European 
Greenfinch and House Martin are added to the Red List.
European Greenfinch has been recorded at Cruachan in 
three survey years since 2009 and breeding was confirmed 
in 2011, among lochside vegetation at the Site Offices. A 
pair held territory at the dam access road in 2013, when 
nesting was thought possible, and a single male was at the 
tailrace in 2017, the most recent survey sighting.
The conservation concern over European Greenfinch  
was one of the main headlines to emerge from BoCC5 – a 
common and familiar garden bird whose decline has been 
so dramatic, that it has jumped straight to the Red List from 
the Green List.
Its Scottish population collapsed by 68% in the period 
2008-2018, closely mirroring the UK figure, with its decline 
linked with the emergence and spread of Trichomonosis, a 
parasite-born disease that causes high mortality to its hosts. 
The disease is spread through contaminated food and 
water and poor hygiene at garden bird feeding stations may 
be a factor in the epidemic’s spread, particularly among 
European Greenfinch, which are highly gregarious and social 
at feeding sites, but other species, including Common  
Chaffinch and Dunnock, are also vulnerable.
A single pair of House Martin nested successfully at  
Cruachan’s Site Offices in 2018 and 2021, building their 
cup-shaped nest on the structure of the building, but, prior 
to this, it had been recorded infrequently, usually hunting 
over Loch Awe or the substation. House Martin was on the 
SPECIES
NEW
OLD
10-YR TREND
50-YR TREND
Herring Gull 
Common Cuckoo
+13%
-53%
Eurasian Skylark
-7%
-56%
Wood Warbler
-22%
Common Starling
-24%
-82%
Ring Ouzel
+37%
Mistle Thrush
-15%
-57%
Spotted Flycatcher
-11%
-88%
Whinchat
-14%
House Sparrow
+8%
-65%
Tree Pipit
+6%
-74%
House Martin
-21%
-53%
Common Linnet
+6%
-56%
Lesser Redpoll
+21%
-87%
Common Greenfinch 
-68%
-64%
Twite
Yellowhammer
-11%
-60%
Greylag Goose
+14%
Common Mallard
-7%
+86%
Black-throated Diver
+16%
Osprey
+34%
SPECIES
NEW
OLD
10-YR TREND
50-YR TREND
Oystercatcher
-11%
Common Sandpiper
-9%
-51%
Common Snipe
-9%
Red-breasted Merganser
Great Black-backed Gull
Lesser Black-backed Gull
Razorbill
Tawny Owl
-8%
Common Kestrel
-26%
-48%
Eurasian Sparrowhawk
-19%
+52%
Song Thrush
+2%
-49%
Northern Wheatear
-35%
-13%
Common Redstart
+8%
+24%
European Dipper
-6%
-23%
Willow Warbler
-3%
-43%
Common Whitethroat
+1%
-13%
Grey Wagtail
-18%
-43%
Meadow Pipit
+8%
-37%
European Bullfinch
+21%
-38%
Dunnock
-4%
-33%
Wood Pigeon
-2%
+121%
Winter Wren
+11%
+65%
PAGE 15
Green List at the outset of the review in 1996 but slipped 
on to the Amber List in 2002 and has remained there until 
BoCC5, when its new Red-listing reflects its ‘Near Threat-
ened’ assessment in the IUCN Regional Red List. 
Its population has fallen by 57% (1969-2018) and, while 
the reasons are not fully understood, it may be related 
to climate and land-use changes. The report also 
highlights the destruction of their nests by 
home owners – House Martin will re-use their 
nests from the previous season and they 
should be left intact over the winter.
Two species found at Cruachan drop out 
of the Red List. BoCC5 cautions that the 
movement of Song Thrush to the Amber 
List is due to a slight variation in trends rather 
than significant improvements in its fortunes 
– its reduction in population of 49.9% is just a 
fraction outside the 50% Red List threshold. 
Meanwhile, Grey Wagtail – only promoted to the 
Red List in 2015 – is now reassigned to the Amber List.
The number of Amber List birds recorded at Cruachan 
increases to 26 species, following the BoCC5 review. 
The 18 Cruachan species previously listed as Amber in 
BoCC4 (2015) are unchanged in the new update but they 
are joined by the two dropping from the Red List and a 
further six species promoted from the Green List as a result 
of their worsening conservation outlook.
Northern Wheatear and Common Whitethroat are back 
on the Amber List for the first time since 2009 due to a fall in 
their nesting population. Both long-distance summer visitors 
from sub-Saharan Africa, it is thought the two species may 
be experiencing difficulties on their migration routes.
Common Whitethroat has only been recorded in two  
survey years (2014 and 2015) while Northern Wheatear is  
a familiar upland bird at Cruachan but whose breeding 
population is subject to often marked fluctuations.
Eurasian Sparrowhawk and Red-breasted Merganser 
are Amber-listed for the first time along with two other very 
familiar woodland species, Wood Pigeon and Winter Wren, 
that have been added to the Amber List due to significance 
of the UK population in holding more than 20% of the  
European population, and not due to population declines. 
Population trends shown in Table 4 are taken from The 
European Greenfinch numbers have fallen by 68% in a 10-year period. It is now on the Red List, along with House Martin (inset)
Cruachan Power Station Biodiversity Survey 2021
PAGE 16
State of the UK’s Birds 2020 (RSPB 2020) and show the 
10-year trend (2008 to 2018) and 50-year trend (1978-2018) 
although some information is not available, particularly for 
species that are uncommon and not often recorded  
during formal surveys – for instance Twite which is an upland 
breeding species that occurs in low densities. 
Several Red and Amber species show an increase in the 
past 10 years although in many cases from very low historic  
populations – for instance, Tree Pipit increased by 6% in the 
10 years to 2018 but this follows a 50-year decline of 74%.
7.1.2 
IUCN REGIONAL RED LIST
The status of British birds was also assessed in BoCC5 
against the extinction risk criteria set out by the International 
Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN).
The IUCN Red Data List is the world’s most widely- 
accepted system for measuring the global conservation  
risk of species. Regional List assessments examine  
species against the IUCN guidelines at national level, where 
conservation policy and action are implemented.
The second IUCN Regional Red List assessment, also 
published in December 2021, indicates that 46% of 235 
regularly-occurring species have populations that are  
threatened with extinction from Great Britain.
These include 21 species that qualified as ‘Critically  
Endangered’, 43 that are ‘Endangered’, 58 that are  
‘Vulnerable’ and 33 species that are listed as ‘Near  
Threatened’ in Britain – a number of which have been  
recorded at Cruachan Power Station and its landholdings.
The criterion for qualification in the various categories is 
complicated and BoCC5 does not give individual species’ 
accounts. As the IUCN Regional Red List process focuses 
on extinction risk, assessments tend to identify species 
with extremely low numbers, restricted ranges and/or rapid 
recent declines and there may be little correlation with those 
on the BoCC5 lists. For instance, 49 Red- and Amber-listed 
species are assessed as being of IUCN Least Concern.
However, for the record, we have listed all those species 
that are threatened and have been recorded at Cruachan.
A total of 27 species found at Cruachan appear on the 
IUCN Regional Red List assessment, including six species 
highlighted as Endangered. A total of 79 species have been 
recorded at the power station site, therefore more than a 
third (34%) are now on the IUCN Regional threat list in  
respect of the vulnerability of the populations in Britain. 
While BoCC focuses on the current and past status, IUCN 
examines current and likely future trends so may provide an 
early warning of trouble ahead. For instance, Common  
Chaffinch and Barn Swallow qualify as Endangered and  
Vulnerable respectively against IUCN criteria, due to their 
population declines over a 10-year period, and may be 
elevated from the Green List in future conservation reviews.
7.2 
IUCN EUROPEAN RED LIST
The 2016 Cruachan report discussed the document the 
European Red List of Birds (ERLB 2015) that examined the 
extinction risk of birds occurring in the Western Palearctic.
The European Red List of Birds was reviewed in August 
2021, highlighting that 13% of 544 species in Europe are 
threatened (Birdlife International 2021). Although there has 
been no change in this headline figure over the six-year  
period, in total 84 species have changed their Red List  
status since the 2015 review.
There is some good news as three birds occurring at  
Cruachan – Herring Gull, Razorbill and Meadow Pipit – all 
of which qualified as Near Threatened in 2015, have been 
downgraded to Least Concern. European Oystercatcher 
and Red-breasted Merganser have shown no change and 
remain listed as Vulnerable and Near Threatened respectively 
in the new European Red List.
However, Common Snipe now qualifies as Vulnerable to 
extinction across Europe. This wader, which may nest near 
Cruachan Reservoir, has suffered a 36% global decline – 
particularly in its strongholds in Russia – as a result of habitat 
loss and degradation of its breeding grounds.
ENDANGERED
Great Black-backed Gull
Herring Gull
Northern Wheatear
Common Chaffinch
European Greenfinch
Twite
VULNERABLE
Red-breasted Merganser
Common Mallard
Black-throated Diver
Grey Heron
Eurasian Oystercatcher
Common Snipe
Eurasian Sparrowhawk
Common Kestrel
Barn Swallow
Wood Warbler
Common Starling
NEAR THREATENED
Red-throated Diver
Common Sandpiper
Tawny Owl
Osprey
House Martin
Mistle Thrush
Ring Ouzel
Spotted Flycatcher
Whinchat
Grey Wagtail
TABLE 3: SPECIES QUALIFYING FOR 
THE IUCN REGIONAL RED LISTS AND 
GB EXTINCTION THREAT STATUS
SPECIES
2021
2015
Common Snipe
VUL
LC
Oystercatcher
VUL
VUL
Red-breasted Merganser
NT
NT
Herring Gull 
LC
NT
Razorbill
LC
NT
Meadow Pipit
LC
NT
TABLE 4: SPECIES ON THE IUCN EUROPEAN RED LISTS
Great Black-backed Gull
House Sparrow
Eurasian Skylark
PAGE 17
The Red-listed Spotted Flycatcher made a return to Cruachan in 2021 and a pair raised young at the Contractors Compound
7.3 
BIRDS IN 2021 SUMMARY
A total of 53 species of birds were recorded at the Cruachan 
Power Station during the Blue Leaf survey in 2021. All of 
these are common and widespread species associated with 
woodland, upland and waterside habitats.
Of the 53 species recorded, 26 (49%) were Confirmed (C) 
as having nested on or adjacent to Drax’s landholdings at 
Cruachan. A further 10 (19%) species Probably Nested (PR) 
and nine (17%) were considered to have Possibly Nested 
(PO). The remaining eight (15%) species were not thought 
to be breeding in 2021 – they were seen outwith the nesting 
season or flying over the survey areas.
Nine of the species recorded are Red List species – those 
of highest conservation concern in the document BoCC5. 
In addition, 18 Amber List species of medium conservation 
concern were recorded during fieldwork along with 26 Green 
List birds – those that are deemed to have a favourable  
conservation status. A total of 12 Red and Amber List  
species were confirmed as having bred at the Cruachan 
Power Station in the 2021 survey.
7.3.1 
RED LIST
European Herring Gull Larus argentatus NB
Three adults oversummered at Loch Awe, seen on 17-18/6 
and 14/7, often loafing at the fish farm but occasionally  
individuals perched at Cruachan tailrace. Unusually, a  
juvenile was present at the loch on 23/8, likely dispersed 
from breeding sites on the Argyll coast.
Common Cuckoo Cuculus canorus NB
Birds were heard on 18/5 and 18/6 but the surveyor felt, 
overall, that the species was scarcer than usual in 2021. 
Most records were obtained at the dam access road, where 
two were present on 18/6, but one was calling north of the 
Site Offices on 18/5.
House Martin Hirundo rustica C
For a second year, a pair nested at Cruachan Site Offices, 
with adults feeding young on 14/7 in a nest built above the 
reception office window. The outcome of the nest is not 
known but 30 birds, including juveniles, were feeding over 
Cruachan tailrace on 23/8.
Cruachan Power Station Biodiversity Survey 2021
PAGE 18
RED LIST SPECIES
SBL LIST
BREEDING STATUS
European Herring Gull
YES
NB
Common Cuckoo
YES
NB
House Martin
C
Tree Pipit
YES
C
Mistle Thrush
No
PO
Wood Warbler
YES
PR
Spotted Flycatcher
YES
C
Twite
YES
C
Lesser Redpoll
YES
PR
TABLE 5: RED DATA LIST BIRDS AT THE CRUACHAN POWER  
STATION, SBL STATUS AND BREEDING STATUS
Tree Pipit Anthus trivialis C
Two territories were recorded on the dam access road  
transect north of Lochawe village. 1AOT was present on 
18/5, increasing to 2AOT by 18/6. On the latter date, an 
adult was seen carrying food, suggesting a nest with young 
nearby. Finally, two birds were heard in flight on 24/8 at  
upland Cruachan, likely returning migrants heading south.
Mistle Thrush Turdus viscivorus PO
There were sightings on two dates but nesting was not 
proven. One flew south over Loch Awe from the Site Offices 
on 18/5 (sightings here are unusual) then on 24/8, three  
fed among the slopes of Beinn a Bhuiridh, at the east side 
approach road to Cruachan dam.
Wood Warbler Phylloscopus sibilatrix PR
Singing males were present in May and June, with 3AOT at 
the dam access road transect north of Lochawe and 1AOT 
north of the Contractors Compound. None was seen or 
heard after June, however, and breeding may have been 
abandoned or failed at the first brood.
Spotted Flycatcher Muscicapa striata C
This declining species made a welcome return to Cruachan, 
with a pair feeding two fledged juveniles high in the tree 
canopy at the Contractors Compound on 14/7. None had 
been seen at the site in May or June so it is possible the 
breeding territory was, for instance, on the north side of the 
railway line.
Twite Linaria flavirostris C
Twite had a productive nesting season at upland Cruachan, 
with decent-sized family parties present from mid-June. 
Just one territory was located in BBS work, beside the dam 
access road on 31/5, about 1km south of the dam – but, by 
18/6, family parties were conspicuous. On 18/6, adults and 
three young were beside the dam road, close to where the 
territory had been recorded, then a flock of nine comprising 
adults and several juveniles were at the Allt Cruachan road 
bridge near the Penthouse on 13/7. The following day, four 
were found at the east side approach road to the dam then, 
finally, on 24/8, upwards of 15 birds were present close to 
the Penthouse Pond. Although there may be some overlap, 
this likely represents the best breeding season on record.
Lesser Redpoll Acanthis cabaret PR
All records were from the dam access road, where there 
were regular sightings of flyover individuals but just one male 
holding territory in May and June. Maximum counts were 
four in flight near ‘The Titanic’ on 18/6 and five south over 
Loch Awe on 24/8.
7.3.2 
AMBER LIST
Red-breasted Merganser Mergus serrator PO
The trail camera overlooking Loch Awe recorded a female 
ashore on the shingle bank at Cruachan Visitor Centre on 
16/6. This is only the third record for the survey after two in 
September 2016 and a pair in June 2017.
Common Mallard Anas platyrhynchos PR
There were several sightings caught on a trail camera beside 
Loch Awe at Cruachan Visitor Centre: these included a pair 
on 30/5, a male on 31/5, a pair on 1/6 and three males on 
6/6. Finally, a pair was near Cruachan tailrace on 14/7.
Eurasian Sparrowhawk Accipiter nisus PO
There were two sightings during the survey, more than usual. 
A female dashed through the Hazel copse north of the dam 
access road on 17/6, then it or another female flew over the 
access road north of Lochawe village, pursued by Hooded 
Crows.
Eurasian Oystercatcher Haematopus ostralegus NB
Two presumed failed breeding birds were together on the 
shores of Loch Awe on 14/7. None had been recorded 
earlier in the season.
Common Snipe Gallinago gallinago PO
A male was heard calling and engaged in its “drumming” 
display date south of Cruachan Dam on the very late date 
of 13/7. Such sightings are infrequent, with past records in 
2017 and 2018, but always in May. It may be that breeding  
attempts were delayed due to disturbance associated with 
the presence of the film crews’ encampment.
Common Sandpiper Actitis hypoleucos PR
Single birds were recorded on the Loch Awe trail camera, 
located overlooking the shingle bank at Cruachan Visitor 
Centre, on several dates in late June. However, there were 
no other sightings and nesting was not proven. Singles were 
also on the south side of the loch on 18/5, the first of the 
year, and on 18/6.
Great Black-backed Gull Larus marinus NB
Birds were present throughout the summer at Loch Awe, 
often associating with the fish farm. Single adults were  
seen on 18/5, 17/6 and 14/7, with two adults early in the 
morning of 18/6.
Tawny Owl Strix aluco NB
A single was heard hooting from the Coille Leitire on 13/7, 
while the surveyor was engaged in moth trapping overnight 
at Cruachan Visitor Centre.
Common Wood Pigeon Columba palumbus PO
There were records on two dates. On 18/5, three flew west 
over the dam access road on the St Colms Road transect, 
then a single was recorded in flight on 17/6 at Cruachan 
Visitor Centre. 
Grey Wagtail Motacilla cinerea C
At least two nesting attempts were confirmed at Cruachan 
in 2021. An adult female with food was present at the Visitor 
Centre on 18/5, then flying towards the Allt gorge, at the 
Contractors Compound, where a pair was present on 31/5. 
On 17/6, a male was hawking insects at the Cruachan  
tailrace and, on 24/8, a female and two juveniles were seen 
at the same site – a late date suggesting a second brood 
had been successful.
Meadow Pipit Anthus pratensis C
This was the most common breeding species in the survey, 
with a total of 13AOT recorded in the BBS. 2AOT were 
found at low level, on the transect north of Lochawe, but all 
other records were from upland Cruachan – 6AOT on the 
west side reservoir transect, 3AOT on the high part of the 
dam road and single AOTs at the east side dam approach 
road, at the Penthouse Pond, the Allt Cruachan bridge and 
PAGE 19
AMBER LIST SPECIES
SBL
BREEDING STATUS
Red-breasted Merganser
PO
Common Mallard
PR
Eurasian Sparrowhawk
PO
Eurasian Oystercatcher
NB
Common Snipe
PO
Common Sandpiper
PR
Great Black-backed Gull
NB
Tawny Owl
NB
Common Wood Pigeon
PO
Grey Wagtail
C
Meadow Pipit
C
Common Redstart
C
Northern Wheatear
C
Song Thrush
YES
C
Willow Warbler
C
Winter Wren 
C
European Dipper
PR
Dunnock
YES
C
TABLE 6: AMBER DATA LIST BIRDS AT CRUACHAN POWER,  
STATION, SBL STATUS AND BREEDING STATUS
New additions to the Amber List, from left, Grey Wagtail, Song Thrush and Common Wood Pigeon and, below, European Dipper
the area south of the dam wall. A few juveniles were out of 
the nest by 13/7, but not in large numbers – the largest  
family party involved nine on the east side of Cruachan  
Reservoir on 14/7. By 24/8, there were still a few small 
groups around the dam, including a single flock of 15 birds.
Common Redstart Phoenicurus phoenicurus C
Breeding was confirmed in the small gorge north of the dam 
access road’s new entrance gate. A pair was first noted on 
17/6, with the male singing and alarm calling at the presence 
of the surveyor. On 13/7, both adults were witnessed  
carrying food, often perching on the barbed wire field 
boundary and commuting to the gorge on the south side of 
the road. A second singing male was found on the access 
road transect north of Lochawe on 17/6.
Northern Wheatear Oenanthe oenanthe C
Just 4AOT were recorded at upland Cruachan, the  
lowest total since the start of survey work in 2009. Most 
were located on the west side reservoir transect, where 
3AOT were noted on 17/5 and 18/6. On the latter date, 
an adult and two fledged young were seen near the 
dam. A single pair was found at the dam access road, at 
NN0828227235 on 18/6, with a single apparently  
independent juvenile nearby on 13/7. The last female was 
seen on the east side approach road to the dam on 24/8. 
None was recorded at the Cruachan ‘Bowl’ during the year 
but, with low numbers elsewhere, disturbance may not be 
the only factor in the reduced Cruachan population.
Song Thrush Turdus philomelos C
A total of 4AOT were recorded in the BBS survey,  
involving 2AOT at the Site Offices/Visitor Centre transect and 
singles AOT at the Contractors Compound and dam  
access road north of Lochawe Village. A newly-fledged 
juvenile was found dead on the A85 near the Site Offices on 
18/6 and, the same day, a pair was gathering food on the 
Visitor Centre lawns.
Willow Warbler Phylloscopus trochilus C
This was the third most common breeding species at 
Cruachan in 2021, with a total of 11AOT recorded on the 
transect walks. The key site was the east side of the dam 
access road, from Lochawe, where 9AOT were found in the 
early morning of 18/5. Interestingly, only 4AOT were  
recorded on an transect walk the previous evening.  
Elsewhere, only 1AOT was found at the Site Offices, a  
singing male within the Coille Leitire, with 1AOT further west 
up the dam road. Juveniles were widespread in July,  
forming small flocks within the bracken stands near upland 
Cruachan, including a group of 12 on 14/7.
Winter Wren Troglodytes hiernalis C
Numbers were low in 2021, with just 7AOT recorded on 
the BBS transects, including 4AOT beside Loch Awe and 
3AOT at the dam access road. Juveniles were present out 
the nest in the loch embankment at the Site Offices on 18/6. 
Unusually, a pair bred at upland Cruachan, in the gorge near 
the Allt Cruachan vehicle bridge, with adults feeding young 
on 17/6.
European Dipper Cinclus cinclus PR
At least one adult summered on the shore of Loch Awe, first 
recorded on 6/6 by the trail camera on the shingle shore at 
the Visitor Centre. On 17/6, the surveyor witnessed the bird 
at Cruachan tailrace and at the shingle shore, often contact 
calling, suggesting breeding may have taken place. One 
bird was still present on 24/8, flying round the tailrace. This 
notable run of sightings represents only the second year this 
species has been present at Cruachan, after one was seen 
near the Contractors Compound in 2011.
Dunnock Prunella modularis C
Just 4AOT were recorded but breeding was confirmed at the 
Visitor Centre where two fledglings were found in lochside 
vegetation on 18/6. A singing male was at the Site Offices 
and 2AOT were found at the dam access road transect in 
May and June.
7.3.3 
GREEN LIST
Great Cormorant Phalacrocorax carbo NB
An adult was at the Loch Awe fish farm on 23/8 and likely 
the same was fishing on the loch near Cruachan Visitor 
Centre the following day.
Grey Heron Ardea cinerea NB
Singles were seen on four dates but no late summer roost 
developed at Loch Awe opposite Cruachan Visitor Centre. 
One flew over the dam access road on 18/5, with a run of 
singles seen from the station offices on 18/5, 18/6, 14/7 and 
23/8, sometimes perched on the fish farm infrastructure.
Canada Goose Branta canadensis PR
Breeding was successful at Loch Awe, with several pairs by 
its banks on 18/5, then a post-breeding creche of 28 adults 
and 16 juveniles opposite Cruachan site offices on 17/6. 
Numbers peaked on 14/7 when a total of 59 were on the 
loch. None was present in August, presumably having joined 
a moulting flock in the south of the country.
Cruachan Power Station Biodiversity Survey 2021
PAGE 20
Amber-listed bird species recorded in the 2021 survey (from left) Meadow Pipit, Common Redstart and Willow Warbler
Common Buzzard Buteo buteo PO
Sightings were rather scarce during fieldwork and there was 
no indication that nesting took place in the survey area.  
Singles flew low over the dam access road on 17/5 and 
24/8 with, unusually, none seen at upland Cruachan.
Peregrine Falco peregrinus PO
A female flew west, low over Loch Awe, on 17/6, 
carrying a fresh kill. This is only the second 
record of Peregrine for the survey after one 
was seen near the dam in 2013.
Great-spotted Woodpecker  
Dendrocopos major C
A pair nested in a hole in a Silver Birch 
beside the dam access road, just north of 
Lochawe Village. First found on 18/6, the 
pair was feeding noisy large young in the nest 
on 13/7. Two were seen nearby on 24/8. At 
Cruachan Site Offices, a female visited the feeding 
station at the security guard’s cabin on several dates, likely 
gathering food for young nearby.
Barn Swallow Hirundo rustica NB
Again, there were no nesting attempts at Cruachan and 
sightings were rather scarce. The first of the year (31/5) were 
two flying over the dam access road north of Lochawe  
village. Birds were seen regularly in spring and summer at 
the farm building beside the dam road, where nesting likely 
took place. Finally, four were in flight over Cruachan tailrace 
on 23/8, part of a mixed flock of migrating hirundines.
Sand Martin Riparia riparia C
Small numbers were seen hunting over Loch Awe, with the 
first of the year involving three on 18/5. A month later (18/6), 
adults were visiting at least two presumed nests in drainage 
holes in the road embankment west of the Visitor Centre. 
Ten birds joined the mixed hirundine flock hawking over 
Cruachan tailrace on 23/8.
Eurasian Nuthatch Sitta europaea PR
This species is continuing to expand its range in Scotland 
and likely 2AOT were recorded at Cruachan in 2021,  
including the first sightings at Cruachan Site Offices. At least 
1AOT was seen regularly in May and June at the dam  
PAGE 21
Juvenile Northern Wheatear at the reservoir – only four territories were recorded in 2021. Inset, Great-spotted Woodpecker
access road near Lochawe village and nesting was  
confirmed in oak trees on the east side of the road (although 
not on Drax land). An adult visited peanut feeders at the 
security guard’s cabin on 18/6 with another calling on the 
opposite side of the road at the Contractors Compound on 
14/7. Finally, one was in gorge woodland near the new  
location for the dam road entrance gate on 24/8.
Pied Wagtail Motacilla cinerea C
A pair likely nested on the Site Office roof, where adults were 
making repeated visits to a location high above the entrance 
door on 18/5. An adult carrying food was captured on the 
trail camera on the banks of Loch Awe at the Visitor Centre 
on 31/5. Subsequently, three juveniles were being fed by 
adults at Cruachan tailrace on 17/6. Elsewhere, single  
territories were found at the narrow section of the dam 
access road (31/5), at the west side access to the dam 
(18/6) and near the Allt Cruachan bridge near the Penthouse 
Pond (also 18/6). Several juveniles were present in upland 
Cruachan on 24/8.
European Robin Erithacus rubecula C
Juveniles were seen out of the nest at the dam access  
road and Visitor Centre (both 18/6) and a late fledgling at 
Cruachan tailrace (23/8). A total of 8AOT were recorded 
during the formal BBS fieldwork, involving 4AOT at the dam 
access road transect north of Lochawe, 3AOT at the  
Site Office/Visitor Centre and 1AOT at the Contractors 
Compound.
European Stonechat Saxicola rubicola C
Two pairs were found at Cruachan this year, both of which 
successfully fledged young. One pair was feeding four  
newly-fledged juveniles on 17/6, among a stand of bracken, 
two kilometres west of Lochawe Village, beside the dam 
access road. On 13/7, a male and three juveniles were 
perched on the deer fence close to the Penthouse Pond.
Common Blackbird Turdus merula C
Just 2AOT were recorded on the BBS transects although 
nesting was confirmed near the Visitor Centre. Singing males 
were noted in May and June at the dam access road north 
of Lochawe village and at the Visitor Centre, where two 
juveniles were present on 18/6, being fed by adults in the 
Cruachan Power Station Biodiversity Survey 2021
PAGE 22
GREEN LIST SPECIES
SBL
BREEDING STATUS
Great Cormorant
NB
Grey Heron
NB
Canada Goose
PR
Common Buzzard
PO
Peregrine
PO
Great-spotted Woodpecker
C
Barn Swallow
NB
Sand Martin
C
Eurasian Nuthatch
PR
Sand Martin
C
Barn Swallow
NB
Eurasian Nuthatch
PR
Pied Wagtail
C
European Robin
C
TABLE 7: GREEN DATA LIST BIRDS AT THE CRUACHAN POWER STATION, SBL STATUS AND BREEDING STATUS
GREEN LIST SPECIES
SBL
BREEDING STATUS
European Stonechat
C
Common Blackbird
C
Garden Warbler
C
Eurasian Blackcap
PR
Common Chiffchaff
PO
Goldcrest
PO
Great Tit
C
Coal Tit
C
Blue Tit
C
Eurasian Treecreeper
PR
Common Raven
C
Hooded Crow
YES
C
Common Chaffinch
C
Eurasian Goldfinch
PR
Eurasian Siskin
YES
PR
Three of the breeding Green List species at Cruachan, from left, juvenile Pied Wagtails at the tailrace, European Robin, Great Tit
vegetated margins of the centre car park. Three birds fed on 
Rowan berries south of Cruachan Dam on 24/8.
Garden Warbler Sylvia borin C
Nesting was confirmed on 18/6 at the dam access road 
transect north of Lochawe village, when an adult was seen 
carrying food into a willow thicket beside the boundary 
fence. A singing male was present further up the road the 
same day. In addition, 1AOT was at the east side of the Site 
Offices from May to July, and breeding almost certainly took 
place.
Eurasian Blackcap Sylvia atricapilla PR
At least 4AOT were recorded, split equally between the  
transects beside Loch Awe and the east section of 
dam access road north of Lochawe. The first 
records were on 18/5 with a male lingering on 
14/7 at the Site Offices. 
Common Chiffchaff  
Phylloscious collybita PO
One was in song north of the Site Offices 
on 18/5 but on no other dates. Chiffchaff 
has never been recorded before at the Loch 
Awe sites so this individual may have involved 
a passage migrant.
Goldcrest Regulus regulus PO
Britain’s smallest bird is closely associated with conifer 
woodland and the only territory was at the Site Offices, 
where a singing male was recorded in May and June in the 
tall firs close to the tunnel entrance.
Great Tit Parus major C
The BBS transect survey resulted in 5AOT being recorded 
– most (4AOT) along the dam access road north of Loch 
Awe, with 1AOT at the Contractors Compound. In addition, 
a family party including three juveniles were seen on 17/6, in 
the stream gorge near the shepherd’s cottage on the dam 
access road.
Coal Tit Periparus ater C
Five juveniles were queueing up to use the peanut feeders 
at the Site Office security cabin on 18/6. 1AOT had been 
recorded in the survey in the tall firs nearby in May and it 
PAGE 23
Garden Warbler was confirmed as having nested at the dam access road in 2021 and, inset, European Blackcap likely nested
seems likely this pair had been successful. Elsewhere, a  
single singing male was found at the dam access road  
transect from Lochawe village.
Blue Tit Cyanistes caeruleus C
A pair in the camera nestbox at Cruachan Power Station 
fledged three young in July but the low productivity rate 
suggests it was a difficult breeding season for insectivorous 
birds, likely due to the cold and wet conditions in May. The 
female laid seven eggs in June – possibly a second brood, 
given that the breeding season was advanced. Five young 
hatched out but only three survived to fledge on 14/7,  
suggesting issues with food availability. A total of 5AOT were 
logged on the BBS transects, with 3AOT at the Site Offices/
Visitor Centre and 2AOT at the dam access road transect. 
Three juveniles and an adult were using the peanut feeders 
at the Site Office security cabin on 18/6.
Eurasian Treecreeper Certhia familiaris PR
Just one territory was identified in the BBS, a singing male 
near the former site of the access gate at the dam road in 
May and June.
Common Raven Corvus corax C
Regularly recorded at upland Cruachan, the peak count was 
six on the rocky pillar beside the track along the west side 
of Cruachan Reservoir on 18/5 – a post-breeding count that 
likely represents a family party. Otherwise, singles or pairs 
were recorded on most dates. On 13/7, one was flushed 
from a sheep carcass near the Penthouse Pond and two 
flew west over Loch Awe on 18/6.
Hooded Crow Corvus cornix C
Hooded Crow was recorded frequently on every visit but 
mostly as singles in flight. Breeding was confirmed, however, 
on 18/6 when two adults and two juveniles were among 
boulders on the west side approach road to Cruachan Dam. 
A single territory was located on the BBS transects – at the 
dam road near Lochawe. Later in the season, five flew south 
over Loch Awe on 14/7 and one was perched on Cruachan 
tailrace on 23/8. Singles were regularly captured on the trail 
camera at the Visitor Centre in June, drinking at Loch Awe.
Common Chaffinch Fringilla coelebs C
A total of 12AOT were recorded in the BBS, making this the 
Cruachan Power Station Biodiversity Survey 2021
PAGE 24
second most common breeding species during the survey. 
During transect counts in May and June, 7AOT were record-
ed at the dam access road north of Lochawe, with 3AOT 
at the Site Offices/Visitor Centre, 1AOT at the Contractors 
Compound and 1AOT north of the new dam road barrier. 
The feeding station at the Site Offices attracted 12, including 
juveniles, on 14/7, suggesting breeding took place locally.
Eurasian Goldfinch Carduelis carduelis PR
Few were found in the BBS but there was evidence of 
breeding success locally in late August. A singing male was 
present on three dates in spring at the dam access road 
transect. Later in the year, two were on the deer fence near 
the rocky, narrow part of the dam access road (13/7). Eight 
flew over the Visitor Centre and nine were on thistles in the 
mid part of the dam road (both 23/8). 
Eurasian Siskin Spinus spinus PR
Displaying males were conspicuous in May and June with 
2AOT recorded on both the Loch Awe and dam access road 
transects. An adult visited the feeding station at the Site 
Offices on 13/7 and a post-breeding flock of 12 flew over 
upper part of the dam road on 18/6.
Blue Tit apparently suffered a difficult nesting season in 2021
7.3 DISCUSSION
A total of 53 species of birds were recorded in 2021 – the 
third-equal highest count since survey work began and well 
above the 12-year median of 50.4.
Graph 3 (below) illustrates that the 2021 total equals the 
count from three other years and is only surpassed by the 
figure in 2010, when Cruachan Substation – with its different 
range of habitats was included in fieldwork– and the 2016 
survey when an exceptional 57 species were seen.
As in the abandoned survey in 2019, no new species were 
added to the Cruachan List in the current reporting period. It 
may be that the accumulation curve of species over time has  
flattened out and there may be few, if any, further new  
additions to the site list. The site list continues to stand at a 
total of 79 species – same as at the end of the 2018 survey.
Nevertheless, the 2021 list of birds at the power station 
was notable for the inclusion of two species that had only 
been recorded in one previous survey year. 
European Dipper was last recorded in 2011, when one  
flew to the Allt Cruachan near the Contractors Compound. 
Excitingly, at least one bird or a pair likely summered at  
Cruachan, with sightings from June to August.
Breeding was considered probable under the EOAC 
guidelines, however, European Dipper breed early on in the 
year – clutches of eggs can be laid in April – and the bird(s) 
recorded at Cruachan may have been failed breeders away 
from their natal area. Dippers are Amber-listed due to both a
53
53
56
53
50
45
48
43
57
53
48
43
09
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
21
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
GRAPH 3: NUMBERS OF BIRD SPECIES RECORDED IN EACH  
YEAR OF THE CRUACHAN SURVEY 2009-2019 AND 2021
PAGE 25
8.0 
REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS
Common Lizard Zootoca vivipara (Lacertidae)
The surveyor felt that encounters with lizards were 
less common at Cruachan in 2021, possibly due to 
cloudy and cool conditions on several visits that will 
have discouraged the reptiles from basking. Lizards 
are sensitive to vibration so the increased traffic on 
the access road may also have deterred them from 
using their usual roadside roosts. On 31/5, two were 
disturbed from beneath oak trees, near the Titanic, 
on the dam access road. Then, on 17/6, one was 
basking among dead Bracken fronds in the mid  
section of the reservoir road.
Palmate Newt Lissotriton helveticus (Lissotriton) 
None was recorded at the Penthouse Pond on the 
early visit on 18/5 but, with air temperatures around 
8ºC, it is likely individuals would still have been 
largely inactive. There were no further checks until 
13/7 when several adults, mostly males, were seen 
in deeper water on the north side of the pond. One 
was also found dead, possibly predated, at the Allt 
Cruachan near the road bridge access to the west 
side of Cruachan Reservoir.
Common Lizard basking at the dam road’s mid section
Peregrine (stock shot) was recorded for the second time and 
(below left) European Nuthatch and Red-breasted Merganser
due to the presence of a female on the Loch Awe shore at 
the Visitor Centre in June.
It was a mixed year for other species, however, with 
Northern Wheatear at a low ebb at upland Cruachan. Only 
four pairs were recorded during fieldwork and it will be  
interesting to see if they bounce back in 2022 without the 
presence of film crews on their nesting grounds. Species 
such as Blue Tit, Winter Wren and Meadow Pipit also 
seemed to have low breeding productivity, likely linked with 
the cold and wet weather in early spring.
In contrast, Twite appeared to have an exceptional season 
at upland Cruachan. A further 10 (19%) species Probably 
Nested at the sites and nine (17%) were considered to have  
Possibly Nested.
population and range decline since 1981 and there may be 
only 14,000 breeding pairs in the UK (BTO 2021).
Peregrine was also recorded for the second survey year 
after one was seen at Cruachan Reservoir in 2013. The 
sighting of a female carrying a prey item suggests breeding 
possibly took place locally, although the bird was likely on its 
way to a nest in more suitable habitat at Pass of Brander.
The falcon’s UK population is at a record high after a crash 
in numbers in the 1960s linked to the widespread use of 
pesticides. A nationwide survey in 2014 estimated there may 
be 1769 breeding pairs in the UK, up 22% from the previous 
survey carried out in 2002, as the falcon expands its range 
into new sites, mostly in England and Wales. 
The survey also noted an increasing trend towards  
Peregrine nesting on man-made structures such as buildings 
and electricity pylons. However, the 2014 project noted a 
decrease of the falcon in the Scottish uplands, likely due to 
limited prey availability and continuing illegal persecution.
The Systematic List highlights that, in many cases, it was 
a dif cult year for breeding birds at Cruachan. Nevertheless, 
with 47% of species being confirmed as nesting in 2021, it 
was above the long-term average of 45.4.
Common Raven was elevated to Confirmed breeding for 
the first time, with a family party seen at a suitable nesting 
site in May. It had been listed as Probable Breeder in the 
2018 survey but as Non-breeder in all other years.
Spotted Flycatcher nested for the first time since 2015, 
with a pair feeding juveniles at the Contractors Compound; 
the new Red-list species House Martin nested for at least 
a second year at the Site Offices; while Common Redstart 
was confirmed as having bred at the dam access road for 
only the third year in the survey.
European Nuthatch also edged closer to becoming a 
breeding bird at the power station. This species was only 
recorded at the site for the first time in 2018 but nesting was 
confirmed in 2021, although outwith the Drax landholding 
near the dam access road north of Lochawe, while adults 
visiting the feeding station at the Site Offices may suggest 
breeding took place locally.
The new Amber-list species Red-breasted Merganser was 
also elevated to Possible breeding status for the first time
9.0 
MAMMALS
A study published in November 2021 has highlighted for  
the first time that several species of small mammals are 
undergoing long-term range and population declines.
Authors of Using biological records to infer long-term 
occupancy trends of mammals in the UK state there is now 
“high concern” over species such as Weasel Mustela nivalis, 
Bank Vole Myodes glareolus, Field Vole Microtus agrestis 
and Common Shrew Sorex araneus, all of which have been 
recorded at Cruachan Power Station.
Researchers from the Mammal Society, the University  
of Sussex and the UK Centre for Ecology & Hydrology  
estimated the long-term change in the distribution of 37 UK  
land mammals, based on advanced statistical analysis of 
records from the past five decades.
They found that 18 mammals, including many species of 
bats, were increasing in their distribution and a further 12 
species showed no change over the period. However, they 
highlighted long-term reductions in the distribution of five out 
of seven species of small mammals they had analysed.
The rapid decline for Weasel, seen near Cruachan tailrace 
in 2017, would qualify the species as ‘Vulnerable’ to  
extinction in the UK under IUCN Red List criteria. 
The authors of the paper estimated the proportion of sites 
where weasels were found fell from 50 per cent to less than 
20 per cent between 1970 and 2016. 
Bank Vole and Field Vole, which were trapped in Blue 
Leaf’s small mammal surveys in 2017 and 2018, and  
Common Shrew, which was found dead at the dam access 
road in 2009, have also experienced long-term declines at 
a slightly lower rate, along with Stoat Mustela erminea and 
Water Shrew Neomys fodiens.
Voles and shrews are among the main prey items of  
Weasel and Stoat and small mammals are critical to  
ecosystems as they are prey to a wide range of other  
predatory animals such as birds of prey and owls. 
Study co-author Dr Colin Harrower said: “Declines in  
occupancy are concerning because the smaller the  
geographical area that a species occupies, the greater the 
threat to its continued survival. The fact that these declines 
are occurring in common species, such as Weasel and  
Common Shrew, and over several decades, suggests the 
threats to small mammals are widespread and persistent.”
A report in 2018, led by the Mammal Society, said loss of 
habitat through development and agricultural practices, use 
of pesticides and road deaths are all putting pressure on 
small mammal species.
8.1 
SYSTEMATIC LIST
It proved an exciting year for sightings of large mammals 
with the addition of Eurasian Badger to the Cruachan site 
list, while Red Squirrel and Red Fox were both seen using 
the station’s landholdings for the first time. Six species of 
mammal were recorded in 2021, with European Otter and 
Pine Marten also present at the station.
Red Deer Cervus elaphus (Cervidae)
Five young bucks were seen (17/5) above the old quarry, 
close to the west end of the dam access road.
Red Squirrel Sciurus vulgaris (Sciuridae)
A highlight of the year was the first potential breeding at  
Cruachan, with a pair present in trees at the Site Office. 
There were regular sightings by station staff over the  
summer, in fir trees close to the tunnel entrance and  
venturing as far as the tailrace. Several observers felt they 
may have had a dray locally. The surveyor saw an adult on 
18/5, close to the A85 opposite the Site Office building. The 
only previous survey sighting was from the dam access road 
at Loch Awe in June 2013.
European Otter Lutra lutra (Mustelidae)
Otters were occasionally recorded at Loch Awe by station 
staff. One was captured by a trail camera, swimming in the 
loch on 30/5. On 17/6, the surveyor observed an adult  
female and a well-grown kit in the tailrace. The female 
climbed on to a ledge on the tailrace screens to eat a fish 
while the juvenile called in the water nearby.
Eurasian Badger Meles meles (Mustelidae)
Badger is an exciting, and unexpected, addition to the  
Cruachan list – one was captured on film by security staff at 
the Contractors Compound at 2330 on 14/5.
Pine Marten Martes martes (Mustelidae)
Pine Marten has been resident at the station in recent years 
and continued to be recorded in 2021, but sightings were 
fewer – possibly as the bird feeding station had been  
discontinued while the Visitor Centre was closed. The  
Mustelids were either absent or less conspicuous as they 
went about the site.
Red Fox Vulpes vulpes (Canidae)
Security staff also recorded Red Fox at the station site, with 
two raiding the skips at the Site Office on 17/5. Fox has 
been recorded in past surveys but never on station grounds.
Cruachan Power Station Biodiversity Survey 2021
PAGE 26
Mammal species recorded at Cruachan during 2021 included (from left) Red Deer, European Otter at tailrace and Red Squirrel
10.0 
INSECTS
10.1 
ODONATA (DRAGONFLIES AND DAMSELFLIES)
An important new report published in 2021 has highlighted 
the vulnerability of many species of dragonflies and  
damselflies found at Cruachan Power Station.
The ‘State of Dragonflies 2021’, released by the British 
Dragonfly Society, describes the 50-year population trends 
of many Odonata species in Britain and Ireland.
More than 1.4 million records submitted by volunteer 
recorders in the period from 1970 to 2019 were used to 
calculate annual occupancy trends for species and identify 
the changes that have occurred over time.
There are 46 resident or regularly-occurring migrant 
species in Britain and Ireland plus a further 10 species 
that occur as rare vagrants. Climate change, in the form of 
increased temperatures, is having a profound effect on the 
fauna – resulting in new species colonising Britain at the 
greatest rate ever and contributing to an increase in species 
richness as some populations move north.
A sample of 19 resident species indicates that 41% 
have increased in occupancy while only 11% have shown 
a significant population decline. The Scottish list remains 
impoverished compared with the range of species found in 
southern England, with only 23 resident species north of the 
border plus six that can be classified as vagrants – although 
PAGE 27
caption
5
3
7
5
6
6
7
7
7
2
3
3
09
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
21
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
0
GRAPH 4: NUMBERS OF ODONATA SPECIES RECORDED IN EACH 
YEAR OF THE CRUACHAN SURVEY 2009-2019 AND 2021
Four-spotted Chaser is one species found at Cruachan that is doing well as a result of new wetland habitat creation
new species are colonising from the south. At Cruachan, 
a total of nine Odonata species have been recorded in the 
Blue Leaf survey since 2009. However, the number of  
species recorded can vary dramatically from year to year, 
linked to weather conditions, with cold and dull weather 
conditions depressing populations (as seen from 2017-2019 
when just two or three species were recorded, Table X).
Two species have only been recorded in a single year – 
Beautiful Demoiselle (Allt Cruachan, 2014) and Blue-tailed 
Damselfly (Penthouse Pond, 2015) – but there appears to be 
a core of five or six species that can be relied on to occur if 
weather conditions are clement.
The Penthouse Pond (NN0796727670) is the key site 
for species but other Odonata sightings have occurred at 
Loch Awe and the Allt Cruachan burn, while some, including 
Golden-ringed Dragonfly and Common Hawker, can range 
well away from water bodies. 
However, the new report State of Dragonflies 2021 (Taylor 
et al 2021) indicates five of the six species that have shown 
the greatest decreases in national occupancy are species 
that occur at Cruachan.
TABLE 9: ODONATA SPECIES THAT HAVE SUFFERED GREATEST 
DECREASES IN NATIONAL OCCUPANCY
SPECIES
NATIONAL DECLINE
SCOTTISH DECLINE
Blue-tailed Damselfly
- 0.018
+ 0.112
Golden-ringed Dragonfly
- 0.036
- 0.022
Common Hawker
- 0.076
+ 0.267
Black Darter
- 0.123
- 0.186
Emerald Damselfly
- 0.138
- 0.046
Common Hawker and Black Darter, and to a lesser  
degree Emerald Damselfly, are all linked by being species of 
moorland or heathland pools and bogs that are mainly filled 
by rainwater. 
Emerald Damselfly has shown the greatest decline in  
occupancy across Britain and Ireland, although the rate is 
less pronounced in Scotland and its overall range is  
unchanged. The species mainly inhabits ponds and bogs, 
favouring small, shallow waterbodies. Some of these may be  
temporary and subject to drying out in late summer, 
although this is not the case at the Penthouse Pond, where 
this species is seen almost annually (maximum counts of 20 
in 2010 and 2011, but single figures in recent years).
The species is adapted to drought, having a late  
emergence and eggs that over-winter safely inside plant 
material. However, it is possible that climate change may be 
causing some of these temporary waters to dry out earlier 
each year than the species can tolerate.
Black Darter and Common Hawker are species that are 
typical species of acidic bogs, pools and lakes in moorland 
or heathland. Both dragonflies have a mainly northern and 
western distribution in Britain and, in Scotland, have shown 
small declines since the early 2000s. 
Black Darter has been recorded at the Penthouse Pond in 
half of the survey years (maximum of four in 2015 and 2016) 
while Common Hawker has bred at the pond and also in 
pools in the dam tailrace, but adults can be found ranging 
anywhere, including at the Loch Awe sites. 
The main causes of decline for both species are thought 
to be climate and habitat changes, especially those affecting 
upland areas such as afforestation, acidification and  
desiccation of blanket bog. This is also likely to contribute 
Cruachan Power Station Biodiversity Survey 2021
PAGE 28
Species that suffered significant decreases in occupancy, from left, Emerald Damselfly, Black Darter and Blue-tailed Damselfly
SPECIES
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2021
Large Red Damselfly
Blue-tailed Damselfly
Common Blue Damselfly
Emerald Damselfly
Beautiful Demoiselle
Four-spotted Chaser
Golden-ringed Dragondly
Common Hawker
Black Darter
TABLE 8: SPECIES OF ODONATA RECORDED AT CRUACHAN (2009-2021) AND YEARS OF OCCURRENCE
three species of emerald dragonflies in Scotland, all rather 
scarce. Northern Emerald Somatochlora arctica and Brilliant 
Emerald Somatochlora metallica both occur in the wider 
Loch Awe area so could potentially occur at Cruachan.
10.1.1 
SYSTEMATIC LIST IN 2021
Five species were recorded at the power station in 2021, 
slightly below the 11-year mean for the survey (5.5). 
Most records were obtained from late summer, with the 
knock-on effects of the cold, wet May being pronounced, 
especially the low numbers of Large Red Damselfly that 
were seen at the sites – although the Penthouse Pond was 
not accessed in May/June due to the heightened security 
due to the presence of the film crew. 
Large Red Damselfly  
Pyrrhosoma nymphula (Coenagrionidae)
Only two were seen in late May (31/5), both associating with 
the Allt Cruachan. One was at the Contractors Compound 
with the other near the road bridge south of the dam.
Emerald Damselfly Lestes sponsa (Lestidae)
The colony at the Penthouse Pond remains viable, with three 
males and a female present among its Soft Rush margins on 
24/8, with a female about 100m north of the site in a  
channel near the west side dam approach road.
Black Darter Sympetrum danae (Libellulidae)
The Penthouse Pond continues to hold small numbers, with 
a single female around its margins on 13/7, and two mature 
males present on 24/8.
Golden-ringed Dragonfly  
Cordulegaster boltonii (Cordulegastridae)
Few were recorded, with only two territorial males noted in 
the survey. Both were recorded on 13/7, in the upland area 
of the site – with one cruising over the approach road to the 
reservoir and another further east at NN0974326459.
Common Hawker Aeshna juncea (Aeshnidae) 
Six were present at or near the Penthouse Pond on 24/8, 
including three cruising males, a female oviposting at the 
shallow north end and a pair in copulation south of the site 
near the deer fence. A typical set of records, although none 
was seen elsewhere at Cruachan this year.
PAGE 29
to a decline in Golden-ringed Dragonfly, although this large 
dragonfly is seen in most years at Cruachan, using Allt  
Cruachan and the small burns adjacent to the dam access 
road but also ranging to Cruachan Reservoir and, once, at 
the Visitor Centre (2013).
Blue-tailed Damselfly is one of our most pollution tolerant 
species, often being the only damselfly to be found in poor 
quality waters. It has shown a modest increase in Scotland 
but a statistically significant reduction in England, possibly 
linked with the increasing use of neonicotinoid pesticides. 
Insect conservation charity Buglife reported that 88%  
of river water samples taken in Britain in 2017 were  
contaminated by neonicotinoids.
The report authors state: “Although changes are small, 
that such a ubiquitous damselfly without exacting habitat 
requirements can be affected serves to highlight some of the 
threats currently being posed to the environment.”
However, more species appear to be benefitting from the 
impact of climate change. Warmer summers are known 
to increase the survival rates of both dragonflies and their 
insect prey, while warmer water temperatures benefit larval 
development. Among those species that are doing well are 
several recorded at Cruachan.
TABLE 10: ODONATA SPECIES THAT HAVE SUFFERED GREATEST 
INCREASES IN NATIONAL OCCUPANCY
SPECIES
NATIONAL INCREASE
SCOTTISH INCREASE
Four-spotted Chaser
+ 0.172
+ 0.042
Beautiful Demoiselle
+ 0.091
+ 0.049
Common Blue Damselfly
+ 0.030
+ 0.052
Large Red Damselfly
+ 0.039
- 0.001
Four-spotted Chaser can make use of a wide range of  
still and slow-flowing waters and is widespread throughout 
Britain and Ireland. It is a species that can rapidly colonise 
new sites (Smallshire & Swash, 2018), so has probably  
benefitted from an increase in suitable wetland habitats. 
However, sightings at Cruachan have been intermittent in 
recent years, with the last record dating back to 2016  
(maximum count of seven in 2010). Large Red Damselfly 
is the only species that has been found in every year of the 
survey and can occur in large numbers, including 40 at the 
Penthouse Pond (2014), 20 at Allt Cruachan (2012) and 26+ 
at the dam access road north of Lochawe – although these 
pale in comparison to the highest ever count, an impressive 
150 at Cruachan Substation in 2009.
Common Blue Damselfly was recorded regularly at  
Cruachan Substation in the early years of the survey but 
there have been occasional sightings at Loch Awe (2010), 
the dam access road near Lochawe (2011), Contractors 
Compound (2014) and Penthouse Pond (2016).
A 10th species of Odonata at the power station remains 
an enigma. There have been occasional sightings of an 
‘Emerald’-type dragonfly species – at Cruachan Substation 
(June 2011) and the Visitor Centre (June 2016). There are 
Species recorded in 2021, Golden-ringed Dragonfly (above), 
Large Red Damselfly (below left) and Common Hawker
10.2 
HEMIPTERA (TRUE BUGS)
Spiked Shieldbug Picromerus bidens (Pentatomidae)
A pair of these large predatory shieldbugs was found in 
copulation (24/8) on a Devil’s-bit Scabious flower on the 
verge of the dam access road north of Lochawe – the first 
site record since 2014. The sighting was particularly  
interesting as the male was presenting to its mate a “trophy” 
– a larva of the rare sawfly Abia candens (see account and 
photograph on page 51).
Green Leafhopper Cicadella viridis (Cicadellidae) 
Several of these brightly-coloured leafhoppers were swept 
from damp grassland beside the dam access road north of 
Lochawe on 24/8.
10.3 
COLEOPTERA (BEETLES)
Green Tiger Beetle Cicindela campestris (Carabidae)
This spectacular species is now being recorded annually 
at Cruachan. Two of the metallic green beetles were at the 
dam access road, west of Lochawe village on 31/5, with 
two at the same location on 17/6.
Violet Ground Beetle Carabus violaceus (Carabidae)
A new species for the survey, this spectacular large 
Carabid was recorded on 24/8 as it ran across the 
dam access road near the shepherd’s cottage. 
Athous haemorrhoidalis (Elateridae)
A common click beetle, singles were seen 
on 31/5 at the Contractors Compound with 
another nearby on Ramsons Allium ursinum 
flowers at the Falls of Cruachan gorge.
Ctenicera cuprea (Elateridae)
It was a good year for sightings but all  
records were obtained in May. Unusually, one 
was found in the east side car park at Cruachan 
Reservoir on 17/5 – the highest altitude ever found at 
the station. All other sightings were from the dam access 
road on 31/5, when a total of 12 were found at three  
locations, including seven on the BBS transect route and 
five among the vegetated road margins higher up the  
access road north of the power station.
Shore Sexton Beetle Necrodes littoralis (Silphidae)
The second Cruachan record of this burying beetle was 
obtained on 14/7 when one was at an actinic moth trap on 
the dam access road southeast of Cruachan Reservoir.
Seven-spot Ladybird Coccinella  
septempunctata (Coccinellidae)
This common and familiar species is irregularly 
recorded in the survey, with sightings in only 
four previous years. In 2021, a pair was 
found in copulation at the dam access road 
north of Lochawe on 24/8, with another 
feasting on aphids on Common Knapweed 
at the Visitor Centre wildflower meadow the 
same day.
Cream-spot Ladybird Calvia  
quatuordecimguttata (Coccinellidae)
One was found on the rocky road embankment 
south of Cruachan Reservoir on 17/6. This common  
species has only previously been recorded in 2017.
Common Red Soldier Beetle  
Rhagonycha fulva (Cantharidae)
Good numbers were present on 14/7, with nine at the  
Contractors Compound and three at the Visitor Centre 
wildflower meadow, nectaring at Common Hogweed at both 
sites. Unusually, two were also found at altitude near the 
reservoir the same day, exploiting the profusion of flowering 
Yellow Saxifrage.
Garden Chafer Phyllopertha horticola (Scarabaeidae)
There was no large emergence of this chafer in 2021 and 
the only record involved two on 17/6, which were crawling 
on the dam access road embankment north of Lochawe.
Brown Chafer Beetle Serica brunnea (Scarabaeidae)
This species was first recorded at Cruachan in 2017 and 
had not been seen since until 14/7, when one appeared in 
an actinic moth trap located at the east side approach road 
to Cruachan Reservoir.
Orchid Beetle Dascillus cervinus (Dascillidae)
This is a regularly recorded beetle at Cruachan, but the only 
sighting in 2021 involved a single on 17/6, visiting lady’s-
mantle beside the dam access road north of Lochawe.
Willow Leaf Beetle Lochmaea caprea (Chrysomellidae)
Another familiar species at the power station, five were 
found on Grey Willow (17/6) at the east end of the dam  
access road.
Cruachan Power Station Biodiversity Survey 2021
PAGE 30
Some of the regularly-found beetles in the Cruachan survey, from left: Green Tiger Beetle, Cternicera cuprea and Orchid Beetle
Cream-spot
Ladybird
10.4 
LEPIDOPTERA (INTRODUCTION)
The habitats at Cruachan Power Station and its surrounding 
area have been identified as a High Priority Landscape for 
butterflies and moths.
Butterfly Conservation’s UK Conservation Strategy for 
2025, which was published in 2019, is adopting a new  
five-stage approach to identifying and delivering  
conservation action, recognising that most species of  
butterflies and moths are in rapid decline. 
Species have been assigned new threat risk values and 
priorities for conservation, while 19 areas have been  
designated in Scotland for their value in supporting  
Lepitopteran assemblages and vulnerable populations.
In total, 10 butterflies and 91 moths, including micro-
moths for the first time, have been reassessed as part of the 
new strategy. Five of these species – four butterflies and one 
moth – occurring at Cruachan have been identified as priori-
ties for active conservation efforts.
n Conservation Priority A  
Urgent action across UK range
Chequered Skipper
Pearl-bordered Fritillary
n Conservation Priority B
Action necessary across UK range:
Grayling
Small Pearl-bordered Fritillary
Yellow-ringed Carpet
The charity will assess the status of these species  
through surveys and monitoring; identify reasons for threats 
or decline; and implement management solutions that, if 
successful, can be rolled out at landscape level.
The Argyll Coast is one of seven High Priority landscapes 
designated in Scotland. A further 11 Priority landscapes 
includes Breadalbane Hills to the east. 
The Argyll Coast is highlight as it supports 47 priority  
species (six butterflies and 41 moths) most of which  
currently have no mechanism for conservation delivery. The 
boundary extends north to Glasdrum and south to Knapdale 
but includes significant areas inland, including the north of 
Loch Awe at the Coille Leitire SSSI/SPA.
PAGE 31
Garden Tiger was recorded at Cruachan for the first time in 2021 – this colourful species is declining and is now Amber listed
10.5 
LEPIDOPTERA (MOTHS)
10.5.1 
STATE OF BRITAIN’S LARGER MOTHS 2021
The new edition of the State of Britain’s Larger Moths  
(Butterfly Conservation 2021) has highlighted a continuing 
trend of population decline for most species.
The report summarises current knowledge of the fortunes 
of around 900 species of Britain’s larger moths, based 
on millions of records gathered through research by the 
Rothamsted Insect Survey and the National Moths  
Recording Scheme.
The results found four times as many moth species have 
decreased in abundance than increased.
Long-term abundance trends were calculated for 427 
species of which 41% (175 species) decreased and only 
10% (42 species) increased, while the remaining 49% (210 
species) did not show statistically significant change. 
Despite these population declines, more species are 
increasing in their distribution likely as a result of climate 
change. Long-term trends indicate 32% (165 species) had 
decreased in distribution while 37% (187 species) had 
increased, while a further 159 species did not show any 
significant trend.
The report states: “This highlights the complexity of 
biodiversity change over recent decades. While larger moth 
abundance in Britain has decreased significantly, raising 
grave concerns for the species themselves and for knock-on 
impacts on other wildlife, a substantial proportion of moths 
are bucking that trend, becoming more widespread and, in 
some cases, also increasing in numbers.”
The charity admits that the knowledge gaps are “hugely 
significant” and require further research to understand and 
help improve the fortunes of both habitat specialist moths 
and those that occur as wider countryside species. 
Climate change is one of the key drivers that have been 
identified for causing change. Warmer climate is causing 
many moth species to emerge earlier in the year compared 
with the 1970s and some are having larger and more regular 
additional generations. However, climate change is resulting 
in declines in those species with a single annual brood. 
New species have colonised the UK and moths with 
northern range margins in Britain have spread northwards 
still at an increasing rate since the 1960s. A study of 487 
larger moth species indicates the mean range margin 
change was a northward shift of 5.1km per year over the 
period 1995–2016. In all, 346 species (71% of the total) had  
statistically significant rates of northward expansion. 
Moths that breed in woodland and open grasslands 
increased in distribution, by an average of 12% and 8% 
respectively (1970–2016). 
However, species that breed on moorland decreased  
significantly in distribution, by an average of 13%. There is 
also growing evidence of negative impacts, particularly on 
moths that are adapted to cooler conditions in northern, 
western and upland Britain. Species associated with cool, 
damp climates appear to be undergoing a long-term decline. 
Examples found at Cruachan include Grey Mountain  
Carpet Entephria caesiata (81% decrease in distribution 
1970–2016), Glaucous Shears Papestra biren (38%  
decrease 1970–2016) and Autumn Green Carpet  
Chloroclysta miata (38% decrease 1970–2016). 
Many upland and montane species appear also to be 
shifting to higher altitude. While the causes are not known 
with complete certainty, these distribution declines are in 
keeping with expected responses to climate change. 
Two species from Cruachan appear in a list of the top-30 
species with the highest rates of decrease in abundance 
over a 10-year period (2009-2018). Both Red Carpet and 
Dark-barred Twin-spot Carpet were recorded in 2021.
SPECIES
ABUNDANCE TREND
Red Carpet
-38
Dark-barred Twin-spot Carpet
-40
Cruachan Power Station Biodiversity Survey 2021
PAGE 32
From left, Clouded Buff, Gold Swift and Grey Mountain Carpet are among the key species that have descreasing distributions 
From left, Spruce Carpet, Red-green Carpet and Green Carpet are among the top species that have increased in abundance
Four species from Cruachan appear in a list of the top-30 
species with the greatest decrease in distribution over the  
10-year period (2009-2018). 
Gold Swift Phymatopus hecta has only been recorded 
from Cruachan Substation (NN01) in the survey but this 
indicates a presence in Loch Awe area.
SPECIES
RANGE REDUCTION
Clouded Buff
-30
Angle-barred Pug
-29
Gold Swift
-29
Grey Mountain Carpet
-28
Eight species from Cruachan appear in a list of the  
top-30 species that have had the greatest increase in  
abundance over a 10-year period 2009-2018. These include 
species such as Double-striped Pug that are now having 
more than one breeding generation at the power station.
SPECIES
ABUNDANCE TREND
Spruce Carpet
+92
Straw Dot
+64
Red-green Carpet
+45
Broad-bordered Yellow Underwing
+43
Green Carpet
+31
Double-striped Pug
+31
Vapourer
+27
Coronet
+24
Finally, four species from Cruachan appear in a list of  
the top-30 species with the highest rates of increase in 
distribution over a 10-year period 2009-2018.
SPECIES
INCREASE IN DISTRIBUTION
Red-green Carpet
+49
Spruce Carpet
+45
Pinion-streaked Snout
+42
Straw Dot
+27
PAGE 33
10.5.2 
BUTTERFLY  
CONSERVATION’S  
STRATEGY FOR 2025
Butterfly Conservation’s new 
Conservation Strategy 2021-
2025 has identified 71 wider 
countryside moths in need 
of urgent research to identify 
drivers of their decline.
These include 22 species 
found at Cruachan:
Autumnal Rustic
Broom Moth
Buff Ermine
Centre-barred Sallow
Cinnabar
Crescent
Dark-barred Twin-spot 
Carpet
Dark Brocade
Ear Moth
Garden Tiger
Grey Dagger
Grey Mountain Carpet
Heath Rustic
Knot Grass
Latticed Heath
Powdered Quaker
Red Carpet
Rosy Rustic
Sallow
Shaded Broad-bar
Small Phoenix
White Ermine
Results of monitoring and 
future research will help 
inform the preparation of a 
revised Red List of British 
larger moths.
Species of Conservation Concern: clockwise 
from top, Red Carpet is one the top species 
that is decreasing in abundance; White Ermine 
and Latticed Heath have been identified for 
urgent research to identify causes of decline 
10.5.3 
MOTH TRAPPING SURVEY 2021
Blue Leaf resumed moth trapping surveys at Cruachan 
Power Station in 2021, with up to four light traps deployed 
on four nights, to help produce an indicative list of the  
species present at the station.
In May, the habitats along the dam access road were  
targeted for the first time while we continued to monitor  
montane species at Cruachan Reservoir, with a trapping 
session held in July. Two further sessions were based at 
Cruachan Visitor Centre, in June and August.
The methodology is fully discussed in the 2017 Cruachan 
Biodiversity Report. However, as a summary, three types of 
moth light trap were deployed – a mains-powered Robinson 
Trap and up to two 12V battery-powered Skinner actinic 
light traps and two battery-powered Heath traps. 
Actinic light traps use fluorescent tubes that emit light  
with a high ultraviolent content. As they can be run off  
12V motorcycle batteries, without a need to be connected to 
a mains power supply, they are portable and can be placed 
remotely in any habitat.
Meanwhile, a mains-powered Robinson Trap was located 
in the car park west of the Visitor Centre. This trap uses a 
large, very bright 125W Mercury Vapour (MV) bulb that emits 
ultraviolet light. 
These traps require a 240V power supply and, lacking a 
portable generator, have to be powered by mains electricity. 
This nearest accessible building with a power supply was 
the Visitor Centre and Blue Leaf is grateful to security staff at 
Cruachan for enabling access to the supply. 
Trapping sessions were arranged for nights that promised 
the best conditions – warm, humid, overcast conditions with 
little wind. Despite this, some nights were more successful 
than others (Graph 5) and often weather conditions proved 
Cruachan Power Station Biodiversity Survey 2021
PAGE 34
Pebble Hook-tip (main pic), new for Cruachan, and above (from left) Common Lutestring, Shaded Broad-bar, Common Carpet
DATE
LOCATION
OVERNIGHT WEATHER CONDITIONS
17-18 May
Access Road
Drizzle, overcast, 10ºC, light SW wind
17-18 June
Visitor Centre
Dry, partly cloudy, 8ºC, mod west wind
13-14 July
Reservoir
Dry, variable cloud, 13ºC, light west wind
23-24 Aug
Visitor Centre
Dry, 30% cloud, 14ºC, still and foggy
TABLE 15: TRAPPING SESSIONS AT CRUACHAN 2021
PAGE 35
less than optimum – in May, for instance, overnight rain and 
low cloud may have reduced the effectiveness of the  
trapping session. Although 62 moths were captured,  
two-thirds (41) of these was a single species, the Brown  
Silver-line, a common Geometrid associated with Bracken.
Meanwhile, the June session at the Visitor Centre/Site  
Offices was hugely disappointing, with only 32 moths 
trapped – although, in this case, an actinic trap located near 
the tunnel entrance failed during the night, resulting in no 
moths being retained.
The highest catch was overnight on 14-15/7 when 89 
moths were attracted to two Heath and one Skinner actinic 
lights at Cruachan Reservoir and its environs, then 78 were 
caught in the August session at the Visitor Centre – both 
nights were mild with little wind.
In each session, the contents of the traps were emptied 
soon after first light, the catch was examined, identified and 
photographed, then moths were released into long grass. 
A small number of species from difficult-to-identify groups 
were, however, retained for further investigation. Best  
practice, as described in the Moth Recorders Handbook 
(Randle 2013), was followed in delivering the 2021 moth 
trapping survey.
 
10.5.4 
NOTES ON THE SYSTEMATIC LIST
A total of 271 moths of 78 species were recorded in the light 
trap survey or otherwise found at Cruachan in 2021. This is 
fewer than the 341 moths of 82 species recorded in 2018 
but more than the 185 moths of 78 species that occurred in 
the 2017 trapping sessions.
The following systematic list groups the moths recorded in 
2021 by family and follows the order of the British checklist 
(Bradley 2000). Species new to the Cruachan survey are 
indicated by an asterisk in front of the name.
The initial figure given is the checklist number, then the 
common name used by Bradley (2000) and the scientific 
name for each species. Where relevant, comments on the 
Scottish status of moths are included in the test, based on 
the most recent version of the Scottish Macro-moth List 
(Butterfly Conservation 2020). However, most of the species 
recorded are common and widespread. 
10.5.6 
SYSTEMATIC LIST OF SPECIES
18 Map-winged Swift Korscheltellus fusconebulosa
Two were trapped on 14/7, at an actinic light located at the 
east side approach road to Cruachan Reservoir.
** 1632 Pale Eggar Trichiura crataegi
One was caught in the Visitor Centre MV trap on 24/8 – the 
first record for the survey. This is a moth of heathland and 
woodland edge that flies in late summer and early autumn. 
Its caterpillars feed on shrubs such as Common Blackthorn 
and Blueberry.
1640 Drinker Euthrix potatoria
Two of these large moths were attracted to an actinic trap 
placed at the foot of Cruachan Dam on 14/7.
** 1648 Pebble Hook-tip Drepana falcataria
This is a widespread but local species in Scotland. Two were 
in the Visitor Centre MV trap on 24/8 – the first records for 
Cruachan. The larvae of this species feed on birch trees and 
its population is thought to be stable in Scotland.
1657 Common Lutestring Ochropacha duplaris
Two were retained on 14/7, in an actinic trap at upland 
Cruachan, on the east side approach road to Cruachan 
Reservoir.
** 1715 Plain Wave Idaea straminata
One was caught in the actinic traps near Cruachan  
Reservoir on 14/7, a new species for the site. This species 
is increasing its UK range and is widespread in Scotland but 
most records are from the Highlands. It occupies a range of 
habitats, including woodland and heathland, and its larvae 
feed on dandelion and knotgrass Polygonum spp.
1722 Flame Carpet Xanthorhoe designata 
Likely two generations were recorded of this small, well-
marked carpet species – one at an actinic trap at the Visitor 
Centre (18/6) then five appeared, two months later, at the 
Visitor Centre MV trap (24/8).
** 1723 Red Carpet Xanthorhoe decoloraria
The first records for the survey came on 14/7, when two 
were attracted to an actinic Heath trap at the east side of 
Cruachan Reservoir. This Amber-list species is associated 
with rocky moorland, where its larvae feed on lady’s-mantle 
Alchemilla spp and other low plants – however, the Scottish 
Macro-moth List highlights that although it is still considered 
common in Scotland, there has been a major decline in 
numbers at lower-altitude recording sites.
** 1725 Dark-barred Twin-spot Carpet  
Xanthorhoe ferrugata
This moth is highlighted as Red-listed and it is Endangered 
in the IUCN Regional Red List, although its population may 
be stable in Scotland (Leverton 2020). One attracted to the 
Visitor Centre MV light was the first capture for the Cruachan 
survey. Its caterpillar feeds on low herbaceous plants,  
including docks and bedstraws, in woodland and scrub.
** 1732 Shaded Broad-bar Scotopteryx chenopodiata
One was caught in a Heath trap at the mid-section of the 
dam access road on 18/5, the first record of this Amber-
listed species for the survey. This is a grassland species 
whose larvae feeds on clovers and vetches. The Scottish 
Macro-moth List suggests Shaded Broad-bar, which also 
flies during the day, is not common in the west of Scotland.
1738 Common Carpet Epirrhoe alternata 
Four were at the Visitor Centre MV trap, one at an actinic 
light near the tunnel entrance and another was disturbed 
during day at the east side of the dam access road (all 24/8).
17-18/5
17-18/6
13-14/7
23-24/8
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
GRAPH 5: NUMBERS OF MOTH SPECIES RECORDED IN 2021  
TRAPPING SESSIONS AT CRUACHAN POWER STATION
62
32
89
78
Cruachan Power Station Biodiversity Survey 2021
PAGE 36
** 1742 Yellow Shell Camptogramma bilineata
One was seen flying by day on 14/7, beside the dam  
access road near the old quarry. This brightly-coloured  
moth is a new species for the survey. This is a common  
species of damp grassland whose larvae feed on a range  
of low-growing plants.
1743 Yellow-ringed Carpet Entephria flavicinctata 
Yellow-ringed Carpet is the only Butterfly Conservation  
‘Priority B’ moth recorded to date during survey work at 
Cruachan, after several were caught near Cruachan  
Reservoir in 2018. It was re-recorded at the location in 14/7, 
when one was at an actinic light at the east side dam  
approach road. The Scottish Macro-moth List suggests 
there has been a decline in its numbers since 1980.
1750 Water Carpet Lampropteryx suffumata 
This species was recorded for the first time in 2018 and  
re-found on 18/5, when five were in an actinic trap located 
at the mid-section of the dam access road.
1752 Purple Bar Cosmorhoe ocellata 
Trapping in upland Cruachan on 14/7 resulted in three of 
these attractive moths being caught at an actinic light at the 
east side dam approach road.
1758 Barred Straw Eulithis pyraliata 
Just one was recorded, caught in an actinic trap at the east 
side approach road to Cruachan Reservoir on 14/7.
1759 Small Phoenix Ecliptopera silaceata 
There was just a single record of this Amber Data list  
species – one at the Visitor Centre MV trap on 18/6.
1762 Dark Marbled Carpet Chloroclysta citrate
All records were obtained on 24/8, when four were  
caught at the Visitor Centre MV trap while a single was at an 
actinic trap at the children’s play area.
1764 Common Marbled Carpet Chloroclysta truncata 
This was the most numerous of the marbled carpet-type 
species in this year’s survey, with three first-generation  
individuals caught at the Visitor Centre on 18/6. Then, on 
24/8, a total of 10 were caught at the same site, including 
nine in the Visitor Centre MV trap.
The spectacular Canary-
shouldered Thorn was 
recorded for the first 
time at the power station
the most common moth during the mid-May trapping  
session. A total of 41 were caught in the three actinic lights, 
including 36 in one Heath trap located at the upper section 
of the dam access road.
** 1904 Scorched Wing Plagodis dolabraria
This is a local species in Scotland but is expanding its range 
north. The first record for Cruachan was attracted to the 
Visitor Centre MV trap on 18/6. This is a woodland species 
whose larvae feed on oak and other deciduous trees.
** 1913 Canary-shouldered Thorn Ennomos alniaria
A spectacular new species for the Cruachan list, one was 
caught in the Visitor Centre MV trap on 24/8. This is another 
woodland moth whose larvae feed on the leaves of a range 
of deciduous trees but it is common in Scotland with a 
stable population.
1917 Early Thorn Selenia dentaria
Three were caught in two actinic traps located at the dam 
access road on 18/5.
1920 Scalloped Hazel Odontopera bidentata 
An actinic trap near the tunnel entrance at the Site Offices 
failed on the 18/6 trapping session but, the following  
morning, one Scalloped Hazel was found roosting nearby  
on the emergency generator
1941 Mottled Beauty Alcis repandata 
Three were recorded on two dates. One was at the  
Visitor Centre MV trap on 18/6, with singles in actinic traps 
at the west side of Cruachan Dam and the east side dam 
approach road (14/7).
1947 Engrailed Ectropis bistortata 
This spring-flying species was recorded at the mid-section  
of the dam approach road on 18/5, when two were caught 
in an actinic trap.
1952 Common Heath Ematurga atomaria atomaria 
This is a common day-flying moorland species and one was 
seen during fieldwork on 31/5, at the east end of the dam 
access road.
** 1958 Clouded Silver Lomographa temerata
A new species for the survey, one was caught in an actinic 
PAGE 37
1776 Green Carpet Colostygia pectinataria
As usual, this species was abundant, with a single, very late 
individual still present at the Visitor Centre MV light on 24/8. 
All others were caught near Cruachan Reservoir on 14/7, 
with a total of 13 recorded, including seven in an actinic trap 
at the foot of the dam wall (west side).
1777 July Highflyer Hydriomena furcata 
A total of 13 were trapped on 24/8 at the Visitor Centre, 
including nine at the MV trap and four in an actinic placed 
in the children’s play park. This is a very common woodland 
species but this was towards the end of its flight time.
1817 Foxglove Pug Eupithecia pulchetta 
Two were caught in Skinner actinic trap placed below the 
west side of the dam on 14/7.
1862 Double-striped Pug Gymnoscelis rufifasciata
A second-generation individual was caught at the Visitor 
Centre MV trap on 24/8. This species was caught in spring 
during the 2018 survey.
1867 Treble-bar Aplocera plagiata
One was at an actinic trap at the east side dam approach 
road on 14/7, three days later than one in the 2018 survey.
1887 Clouded Border Lomaspilis marginata
A regularly encountered species at Cruachan, two were in 
the Visitor Centre MV trap on 18/6 with a single at an actinic 
(14/7) at the east side dam approach road.
1902 Brown Silver-line Petrophora chlorosata
This species is associated with Bracken and proved to be 
Purple Bar
Barred Straw
Foxglove Pug
Treble-bar
Brown Silver-line
Early Thorn
Engrailed
Clouded Silver
trap placed at the Contractors Compound on 18/6, while 
another was netted by the surveyor nearby as it buzzed the 
LED security lights. This is a woodland species, whose early 
stages depend on scrub species such as Hawthorn, and it is 
expanding its range northwards in Scotland.
1981 Poplar Hawkmoth Laothoe populi 
A familiar species in past moth-trapping surveys, five were 
recorded on 18/6 at the Visitor Centre. Four were at the  
Visitor Centre MV trap with a single in an actinic in the 
grounds of the Visitor Centre.
1991 Elephant Hawkmoth Deilephila elpenor 
The second sighting for the survey, after one at the Visitor 
Centre in 2017, turned up in an actinic trap at the west side 
of Cruachan Dam on 14/7.
1994 Buff-tip Phalera bucephala
There was a single record of one caught on 18/6, at the  
Visitor Centre MV trap.
2003 Pebble Prominent Notodonta ziczac 
A late individual, towards the end of its flight period (24/8), 
turned up in an actinic trap located in the children’s play  
park at the Visitor Centre.
2008 Coxcomb Prominent Ptilodon capucina
This prominent has been found in all three years of the  
trapping survey – but just one was seen in 2021, a single at 
the Visitor Centre MV trap on 18/6.
** 2011  Pale Prominent Pterostoma palpina
The Scottish Macro-moth List notes that this relatively-recent 
arrival in Scotland is now widespread and is continuing to 
increase its range. This is a new species for the Cruachan 
site list and adults were recorded on two dates, at the start 
and end of the survey. One was in an actinic trap at the  
mid-section of the dam access road (18/5) with another in 
the Visitor Centre MV trap (24/8).
2014 Marbled Brown Drymonia dodonaea
This is a local species in Scotland but more common in the 
west of the country. Two were caught at the Visitor Centre 
on 18/6.
** 2057 Garden Tiger Arctia caja
A colourful addition to the Cruachan list, three were caught 
at upland Cruachan on 14/7 – including two in an actinic 
trap at the east side of Cruachan Dam and a single in the 
east side dam approach road. This is an Amber-listed  
species, due to UK-wide population declines, but it remains 
common in Scotland and its population is stable.
2061 Buff Ermine Spilosoma lutea 
Two of this Amber List species were recorded at the Visitor 
Centre traps on 18/6.
** 2069 Cinnabar Tyria jacobaeae
This smart black-and-red moth was disturbed from  
grassland beside the east section of the dam access road 
on 31/5 – a new species for the survey. This is an Amber-list 
species but its distribution is complex in Scotland. The  
Scottish Macro-Moths List notes that while Cinnabar is 
increasing its range in the west, where it is largely coastal,  
it is declining in the east of the country.
2102 Flame Shoulder Ochropleura plecta 
There was a single record of this small Noctuid – one  
that was attracted to actinic light on 14/7, at the east side 
approach road to Cruachan Reservoir.
2107 Large Yellow Underwing Noctua pronuba
This large species was present on the two late summer 
trapping sessions. On 14/7, three were caught in traps near 
Cruachan Reservoir then, on 24/8, it was common with 
eight recorded, including seven in Visitor Centre MV trap.
** 2111 Lesser Broad-bordered Yellow Underwing  
Noctua janthe
This is a common and widespread Scottish species but six 
at the Visitor Centre MV trap on 24/8, represent the first 
sightings for the survey. This is another large moth, with a 
wing span of 40mm, and is abundant in woodlands, gardens 
and open countryside.
Cruachan Power Station Biodiversity Survey 2021
PAGE 38
Poplar Hawkmoth was common in June
Pale Prominent was new for the survey
Marbled Brown is a local species in Scotland
Coxcomb Prominent is a regular sighting
2019 Lesser Yellow Underwing Noctua comes
Singles were recorded on two dates – one in an actinic trap 
at the east side approach to Cruachan Reservoir (14/7) and 
another at the Visitor Centre MV trap (24/8).
2118 True Lover’s Knot Lycophotia porphyrea 
This small, well-marked moorland Noctuid was the most 
abundant species in this year’s survey. Large numbers  
appeared in the actinic traps at upland Cruachan, including 
22 in a trap at the base of Cruachan Dam and 14 at the east 
side approach road to the reservoir.
** 2121 Barred Chestnut Diarsia dahlia
This northern species was recorded for the first time on 
24/8, when two appeared in the Visitor Centre MV trap. It 
is widespread in Scotland where it inhabits woodland and 
moorland where its larval footplant, Blaeberry Vaccinium 
myrtillus is present.
2123 Small Square-spot Diarsia rubi
Two were caught at the MV trap located at the Visitor  
Centre on 24/8.
2128 Double Square-spot Xestia triangulum 
Three appeared in an actinic trap placed at the west-side 
base of Cruachan Dam on 14/7.
** 2147 The Shears Hada plebeja
A new species for the survey, one was trapped in the  
Visitor Centre MV trap on 18/6. The Scottish Macro-moth 
List states that although still common, this species may be 
declining. The Shears occurs on a wide range of habitats, 
including moorland, where its larvae feed on a range of  
flowering plants, including dandelion.
2158 Pale-shouldered Brocade
A familiar species in the trapping survey in past years, a 
single was caught in 2021 in a trap in the mid-section of the 
dam access road (18/5).
** 2162 Glaucous Shears Papestra biren
One in an actinic trap on 18/5, at the mid-section of the 
dam access road, was a new species for the Cruachan list. 
This is a moorland species with a northern range in the UK 
whose larvae feed on Common Heather and Bog Myrtle.
PAGE 39
Lesser Broad-bordered Yellow 
Underwing (main image), a new 
species for the survey, and (from 
top) Buff Ermine, True Lover’s 
Knot and The Shears
2168 Broom Moth Melanchra pisi
There was just a single record of one attracted to a Heath 
trap at the east side approach road to Cruachan Reservoir 
on 14/7.
** 2173 Lychnis Hadena bicruris
Another new moth for the survey, one turned up in the Visitor 
Centre MV trap on 18/6. This is a common species with a 
stable population in Scotland, inhabiting a range of habitats 
including woodland and moorland where its caterpillars feed 
on campions.
2176 Antler Moth Cerapteryx graminis
Antler Moth has been recorded in previous years both at 
light traps and also found by day, nectaring on thistles. In 
2021, two were found at a Skinner trap at the west side of 
Cruachan Dam on 14/7. 
2186 Powdered Quaker Orthosia gracilis
The mid-May trapping session at the mid-section of the dam 
access road resulted in a suite of early spring-flying species 
being caught. These included two Powdered Quaker, which 
were caught in an actinic trap on 18/5.
2188 Clouded Drab Orthosia incerta
Another early-year species, three were in actinic traps at the 
mid-section of the dam access road on 18/5.
2190 Hebrew Character Orthosia gothica 
Three were trapped in the actinic traps at the mid-section of 
the dam access road on 18/5.
2198 Smoky Wainscot Mythimna impura 
Two were attracted to the actinic traps near Cruachan  
Reservoir on 14/7, with singles at the west side of the dam 
and at the east side approach road trap.
** 2199 Common Wainscot Mythimna pallens
Eight individuals trapped at the west side of Cruachan Dam 
on 14/7, represent a new species for the survey. Care was 
taken to separate these from the previous similar species, 
which occurs in the same grassy habitats. A common and 
widespread Scottish species.
2250 Dark Brocade Mniotype adusta
Two of this Amber-listed species were trapped beside the 
mid-section of the dam access road on 18/5 – a similar 
sighting to those in the 2018 survey.
2273 Pink-barred Sallow Xanthia togate
The first of the classic autumn-flying species on the  
systematic list, three were caught at the Site Offices/Visitor 
Centre on 24/8. Two were at an actinic light near the tunnel 
entrance with a single in the Visitor Centre MV trap.
2274 Sallow Xanthia icteritia 
One of these bright-yellow autumnal moths was attracted to 
the MV light at the Visitor Centre on 24/8.
** 2299 Mouse Moth Amphipyra tragopoginis
This Amber Data species was recorded for the first time at 
Cruachan when a single appeared in the Visitor Centre MV 
trap on 24/8. The Scottish Macro-moth List highlights this 
rather drab species as declining in Scotland and relatively 
scarce in the west. Its larvae feed on a wide range of  
herbaceous and woody plants.
2302 Brown Rustic Rusina ferruginea
Two were attracted to the Visitor Centre actinic trap on 18/6.
2305 Small Angle Shades Euplexia lucipara
Recorded in every year of the moth trapping survey, this 
continued with three at the Visitor Centre on 18/6, including 
two at the MV trap.
** 2318 Dun-bar Cosmia trapezina
One turned up in the Visitor Centre MV trap on 24/8 – the 
first record for Cruachan. This is a common species  
everywhere in Scotland except for the northwest. Its larvae 
feed on the leaves of several deciduous trees.
Cruachan Power Station Biodiversity Survey 2021
PAGE 40
From left, the Lychnis was a new species for the moth-trapping survey at Cruachan, plus Antler Moth and Clouded Drab
Brightly-colooured autumn flying moths, from left, Pink-barred Sallow and Sallow. Right, the Dun-bar, a new moth for Cruachan 
2321 Dark Arches Apamea monoglypha
This large moth was trapped at the Visitor Centre on 24/8 
towards the end of their flight season. Two were found in 
the MV trap with a single in an actinic trap near the entrance 
gate to the site.
2326 Clouded-bordered Brindle Apamea crenata 
Two were recorded on 18/6 at the Visitor Centre – singles 
in each of the MV trap and an actinic light placed in the 
children’s play park.
2330 Dusky Brocade Apamea remissa
An actinic trap at the west side of Cruachan Dam attracted 
a single on 14/7, the first survey record since 2017.
2361 Rosy Rustic Hydraecia micacea
Three were recorded at the Visitor Centre on 24/8,  
including two in the MV trap and a single at actinic light  
near the entrance gate.
** 2364 Frosted Orange Gortyna flavago
This species is undergoing a range expansion 
in Scotland and is starting to appear in the 
west for the first time. Two trapped at the 
Visitor Centre MV trap on 24/8 were the 
first records for the Cruachan survey and 
likely represent the first inland records for 
Argyll. This is a woodland and open-ground 
species whose larvae feed on thistles.
2425 Nut-tree Tussock Colocasia coryli 
On 18/5, two of these spring-flying moths were 
caught in actinic traps in the mid-section of the reservoir 
access road.
2443 Plain Golden Y Autographa jota 
The only record involved one that was caught at the Visitor 
Centre MV trap on 24/8. This is the first survey record since 
2017.
2474 Straw Dot Rivula sericealis 
A small grassland species, one turned up in a Skinner trap 
located near the base of Cruachan Dam on 14/7. This  
species is one identified in The State of Britain’s Larger 
Moths as having greatly expanded its range in recent years.
PAGE 41
Frosted Orange (main image) is named after its beautiful markings. This was a new species for Cruachan. Inset, Plain Golden Y 
10.5.7 
DISCUSSION
Moth trapping surveys are continuing to discover new  
species at Cruachan Power Station. In 2021, 78 species  
of macro-moth were recorded of which 22 (28%), a  
notable proportion, were found for the first time at the  
station’s landholdings.
The addition of 22 species in 2021 increases to 179 the 
total number of different moth species recorded by Blue Leaf 
at the station. Most of these have been recorded in the years 
in which moth trapping, using light traps, has been carried 
out – 2017, 2018 and 2021. This highlights the range and 
extent of quality habitats found at the station and, in 2021, 
we explored new areas with a trapping session organised at 
the mid-section of the dam access road on 17-18/5. 
Although carried out in drizzly, cool conditions, this trap 
night resulted in three new additions to the Cruachan list  
– Shaded Broad-bar, Pale Prominent and Glaucous Shears 
– and highlighted the potential of the area, close to the  
Coille Leitire SSSI, for future effort.
Later in the month, another new species was discovered 
(30/5), although outwith the moth trapping survey. The 
Amber-listed Cinnabar was found flying by day beside the 
east section of dam access road, north of Lochawe village.
The June session at the Visitor Centre was disappointing 
but despite the very low total of 32 moths, four of these 
were first sightings for the power station – Lychnis, Clouded 
Silver, The Shears and the spectacular Scorched Wing.
Plain Wave, Red Carpet, Garden Tiger and Common 
Wainscot were trapped near the reservoir in June while 
Yellow Shell was found in the morning, flying by day beside 
the dam access road – all new for the site. Another highlight 
was the rediscovery of the montane species Yellow-ringed 
Carpet, which is known from only two other sites in Argyll.
Finally, nine new varieties of moths were encountered in 
the final session, in August, which connected with a range of 
summer species and the first of the autumn fliers. 
These were: Pale Eggar, Pebble Hook-tip, Dark-barred 
Twin-spot Carpet, Canary-shouldered Thorn, Lesser Broad-
bordered Yellow Underwing, Barred Chestnut, Dun-bar, 
Mouse Moth and Frosted Orange.
Moth recording in Great Britain is organised on the basis 
Cruachan Power Station Biodiversity Survey 2021
PAGE 42
of Watsonian Vice-Counties (VC) which are fixed biological 
recording areas of roughly equal size that do not necessarily 
relate to local authority area. Cruachan is located in VC98 
(Main Argyll). Main Argyll VC98’s macro-moth list stood at 
401 species at the end of 2016, the most recent figure, with 
moth trappers providing over 78,000 records to the National 
Moth Recording Scheme (NMRS).
The Argyll list is increasing every year, with at least three 
new regional species found in 2021 as more species expand 
their range north.  For instance, the Pale Prominent, which 
was recorded at Cruachan for the first time in both May and 
August, has pushed into Scotland dramatically since 2012 
and is still spreading – however, nationally, its population has 
declined by 40% between 1967 and 2018.
Plain Wave has been recorded only 11 times in the VC, all 
of which have been from Glen Etive and Appin areas.
Frosted Orange has only been known from Argyll since 
2015 but 10 of the 16 sightings have been since 2018.
10.5.8 
RED DATA LIST MOTHS AT CRUACHAN
Six new species of macro-moths that are included on the 
Red and Amber Data Lists were recorded at Cruachan for 
the first time in 2021.
One species, Dark-barred Twin-spot Carpet, is on the Red 
List following a population decline of -92% over a 35-year 
monitoring period (-83% in a 25-year period). It also  
qualifies as Endangered based on IUCN criteria, as it has  
experienced a decline of greater than 50% in a 10-year 
period of monitoring.
Meanwhile, Red Carpet, Shaded Broad-bar, Garden  
Tiger, Cinnabar and Mouse Moth are all on the Amber List of 
species of medium conservation concern and highlighted as 
Vulnerable by IUCN, having suffered declines of greater than 
30% in a 10-year timescale.
These species increase to 23 the total number of Red  
and Amber Data List moths that have been recorded at the 
station landholdings.
TABLE 16: RED/ AMBER DATA LIST SPECIES AT CRUACHAN 2021
SPECIES
RED LIST
IUCN
DECLINE
Red Carpet 
AMB
VULNERABLE
-69
Dark-barred 
Twin-spot Carpet
RED
ENDANGERED
-83
Shaded  
Broad-bar
AMB
VULNERABLE
-61
Garden Tiger
AMB
VULNERABLE
-80
Cinnabar
AMB
VULNERABLE
-71
Mouse Moth
AMB
VULNERABLE
-61
Red List species recorded at Cruachan in 2021, from left, Dark-barred Twin-spot Carpet, Garden Tiger and Cinnabar Moth
10.6 
LEPIDOPTERA (BUTTERFLIES)
Notably, two new species of butterfly were recorded at 
Cruachan in 2021, bringing the checklist for the site to 20 
species. Small Copper was a long predicted species since 
the start of fieldwork in 2009 but the second new species, 
Chequered Skipper, was a major surprise given its very 
restricted Scottish population.
Small Copper is a frequently-recorded species in Argyll  
although its distribution is mostly coastal or following the 
route of sea lochs and river systems. There are only two 
previous NN02 records – from Taynuilt (1980) and Glen Nant 
(2015) – so the Cruachan sighting represents a modest 
expansion to the west.
Chequered Skipper is listed as an Endangered species  
in the Red List of British Butterflies (2011) due to its  
fragmented population and limited distribution. It is a  
Conservation Priority A butterfly for Butterfly Conservation 
and it is also a Scottish Biodiversity Plan (SBL) priority  
species that has been targeted for surveys and conservation 
action. It is known from NN02, however, with records from 
Glen Nant iand Bridge of Awe since 2012.
Nine other butterfly species were recorded during this 
year’s fieldwork – the total of 11 species is slightly above  
the mean annual total over the previous 11 years of  
PAGE 43
Small Copper was found at Cruachan for the first time in 2021, a single that was flying beside the dam access road in August
11
5
14
12
12
9
11
9
12
7
11
11
09
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
21
14
12
10
8
6
4
2
0
GRAPH 6: NUMBERS OF BUTTERFLY SPECIES RECORDED IN 
EACH YEAR OF THE CRUACHAN SURVEY 2009-2019 AND 2021
The Endangered  
Chequered Skipper  
was found at the dam 
access road in May
survey work (10.3). Nevertheless, it was felt that populations 
remain sparse with few species abundant and, generally,  
low-figure counts of even the most common species.
This is in line with the results of survey work by Butterfly 
Conservation volunteers in 2021 that found that populations 
were at the lowest level for 12 years, likely as a result of this 
year’s unusual weather conditions. 
At Cruachan, many species, such as Orange-tip and 
Green-veined White, were active in March and April during 
the warm start to spring. 
However, cool and wet conditions in May prevented  
butterflies from feeding and breeding, with a consequent  
impact for second generations. Species such as Peacock 
(lowest number in 12 years) and Small Tortoiseshell (third 
lowest in 12 years) continue to demonstrate long-term 
population declines of even our most familiar species.
Cruachan Power Station Biodiversity Survey 2021
PAGE 44
10.6.1 
BUTTERFLY CONSERVATION STRATEGY
Butterfly Conservation’s Conservation Strategy  
2021-2025 has identified four species of butterflies that 
occur at Cruachan as priorities for conservation:
Priority A – Urgent action across UK range
n Chequered Skipper
n Pearl-bordered Fritillary
Priority B – Action necessary across UK range
n Grayling
n Small Pearl-bordered Fritillary
Meanwhile, three further species of butterfly found in 
the wider countryside, including Cruachan, have been 
identified by Butterfly Conservation as priorities for 
research to determine the underlying drivers of decline.
n Small Heath (High)
n Small Tortoiseshell (High)
n Small Copper (Medium)
With the exception of Small Tortoiseshell and  
Small Copper, all these species are also priorities for  
conservation on the Scottish Biodiversity List.
10.6.2 
CHEQUERED SKIPPER AT CRUACHAN
The sighting of Chequered Skipper at Loch Awe could never 
have been predicted when experts were preparing the Red 
List of British Butterflies in 2011.
At the time of the landmark report, the species was only 
known from a small number of colonies in Lochaber and 
North Argyll. However, survey work from 2012 to 2014  
has provided researchers with a better understanding of the 
species and it has been found to be more widespread.
Chequered Skipper was an abundant and widespread 
species in the English Midlands in the 20th Century and  
remained common until the 1950s when it underwent a 
rapid population decline and eventually became extinct at its 
last site in 1976.
In Scotland, the species was unknown until it was first 
found in the Lochaber area in 1939 and remained poorly 
recorded for the next 40 years. Survey work up to 2011 
established its general distribution to be restricted within a 
45-kilometre radius of Fort William.
Computer modelling undertaken by the Joint Nature 
Conservation Committee assessed the Chequered Skipper’s 
requirements in terms of habitat, vegetation, topography,  
aspect, climate, amount of cloud and rainfall. As a result, it 
was predicted that the species was under-recorded in  
Scotland by 20% at a 10km resolution and by as much as 
80% at a 1km resolution. 
In response, a project in 2012-14 encouraged volunteers 
to search for the butterfly in the top 100 1km squares  
predicted by the modelling to have the most suitable habitat 
but where the butterfly had not been recorded. Over the 
three years Chequered Skipper was recorded in 104 new 
1km squares, including 32 in the top 100 plus 72 additional 
new squares. This increases the known range of the butterfly 
at a 1km resolution by almost 42%.
The majority of new 1km squares are infilling within the 
butterfly’s known range but the species has expanded along 
the Ardnamurchan peninsula and to the south and west of 
Loch Etive. There have been three records in NN02, all since 
2012, at Glen Nant (2012 and 2015) and Bridge of Awe 
(2014). More recently, an accepted sighting from a remote 
location near Leacann Forest (NM90) in 2017 extends the 
species’ range 30km further to the south of Cruachan. The 
habitat along the east end of the dam access road looks 
suitable for a population of Chequered Skipper to become 
established. 
In Scotland, the Chequered Skipper is primarily a species 
of woodland edge and scrub, particularly oak (Quercus) 
or birch (Betula). It occurs in areas of non-grazed or lightly 
grazed grassland, scrub and marsh around open broad-
leaved woodland. 
The butterfly requires areas of lush Purple Moor-grass 
Molinia caerulea (its larval food plant) and Bog Myrtle, similar 
to National Vegetation Classification habitat M25, which 
is abundant on the margins of the dam access road and 
beneath the overhead line at NN111265. 
The area also has suitable nectar plants for refuelling 
adults such as Common Bluebell, Bugle and Marsh Thistle.
PAGE 45
The species’ original biodiversity action plan (1996), 
produced by Butterfly Conservation, highlights the value of 
wayleaves beneath overhead lines for this species.
It states: “Many colonies now only survive under  
power-lines; Chequered Skipper and other butterflies benefit 
from the seven to 10-year cyclical clearance of scrub  
beneath the wayleaves. 
“The Chequered Skipper colonises these areas quickly 
and they reach optimum suitability several years after  
cutting, when scrub development provides shelter at 
ground. About one-third of known colonies (although many 
are small) breed to some extent within such wayleaves.”
Attempts are ongoing since 2018 to reintroduce the  
species to its former sites in Northamptonshire, England, 
using adults sourced from the Continent.
Chequered Skipper 
habitat beside the 
dam access road, 
north of Lochawe
Cruachan Power Station Biodiversity Survey 2021
PAGE 46
10.6.3 
SYSTEMATIC LIST
Chequered Skipper  
Carterocephalus palaemon (Hesperiidae)
One of the highlights of the year was the discovery of this 
High Priority species at Cruachan for the first time. A fresh 
adult was found on 31/5, feeding at Common Bluebell near 
the overhead line wayleave close to the dam access road 
north of Lochawe (NN1115026597). Despite searches on 
the next visit, on 17/6, the species was not relocated. This 
species is listed for priority action on the SBL and A&B 
LBAP and is a Conservation Priority A species for Butterfly 
Conservation.
Orange-tip Anthocharis cardamines (Pieridae)
The only record was a male visiting dandelion at the  
Contractors Compound on 31/5.
Green-veined White Pieris napi (Pieridae)
This is normally the most common species at the power  
station landholdings but sightings proved scarce in the  
current season and confined to spring. Two were at the dam 
access road north of Lochawe village on 31/5, with two near 
Cruachan Reservoir the same day, with one at the Visitor 
Centre gardens on 17/6.
Small Copper Lycaena phlaeas (Lycaenidae)
The second new species for the Cruachan survey was a 
single Small Copper that was found (24/8) on Common 
Sorrel beside the dam access road, near the old quarry 
at NN1083326458. This is a common species in Argyll, 
although its distribution is mostly coastal, and, nationally, its 
population has declined by a third in the past decade.
Common Blue Polyommatus Icarus (Lycaenidae)
A single male was recorded visiting yellow composites, such 
as trefoils, at NN0846826916 where the dam access road 
weaves through rocky embankments.
Pearl-bordered Fritillary  
Boloria euphrosyne (Nymphalidae)
This High Priority species was recorded, on 31/5, when one 
was seen in flight and halting at Common Bluebell beside 
the dam access road, near the former site of the entrance 
gate. This species is listed for priority action on the SBL and  
A&B LBAP and is a Conservation Priority A species for  
Butterfly Conservation.
Dark Green Fritillary Speyeria aglaja (Nymphalidae)
A few of these large fritillaries were seen at upland Cruachan 
on 13/7, often visiting Spear Thistle and Common  
Knapweed. Singles were found at the Penthouse Pond and 
at two locations along the dam access road.
Peacock Aglais io (Nymphalidae)
None was recorded until the August site visit (23/8), when 
six were feeding at Buddleia at Cruachan tailrace and five 
were counted at the east end of the dam access road, 
where it was visiting Devil’s-bit Scabious.
Small Tortoiseshell Aglais urticae (Nymphalidae)
One was flying with Peacocks over Devil’s-bit Scabious rich 
grassland beside the dam access road on 24/8. This  
common and familiar species is now a High priority for 
research into its population decline.
Small Heath Coenonympha pamphilus (Nymphalidae)
A total of 11 at the dam access road, on the route of the 
BBS transect, on 17/6 is one of the largest single day 
counts recorded at Cruachan. Earlier, the first of the year 
were seen on 31/5, with three at the dam access road and 
one near the Penthouse Pond. Small Heath is a ‘Watching 
Brief’ species in the SBL.
Scotch Argus Erebia aethiops (Nymphalidae)
The late August fieldwork visit was towards the end of this 
species’ flight time but five were at the dam access road 
north of Lochawe with two at the Penthouse Pond (all 24/8). 
Many of the individuals were looking battered and worn so 
late in their season.
Four of the common and widespread butterflies found at the station in 2021, from left, Green-veined White, Peacock, the SBL ‘Watching Brief’ species Small Heath and Scotch Argus
PAGE 47
10.7 
DIPTERA (TRUE-FLIES)
A total of 26 species of true-flies were recorded in the 2021 
survey, with representatives of eight orders. The largest  
family was the hover-flies (Syrphidae) but it proved a  
disappointing year with low numbers of species present.
10.7.1 
TIPULIDAE – CRANE-FLIES 
Crane-flies are familiar to most people as the “daddy  
long-legs” that invade their homes through open windows at 
night. However, there are around 300 species in the UK that 
occupy a wide range of ecological habitats and are often 
excellent indicators of habitat quality. 
Seven species were found at Cruachan in 2021, five of 
which are new species for the survey and three have not 
previously been reported from Cruachan’s 10km2 (NN02). 
One species Epiphragma ocellare can be considered 
scarce with only one previous Argyll record. The others are, 
however, common and widespread nationally, but this genus 
is, like many invertebrates, poorly recorded.
Pedicia rivosa
This very large cranefly with heavily-patterned wings was  
recorded for the first time at Cruachan on 14/7, when a 
female turned up in an actinic moth trap at Cruachan Dam. 
This is an easily-recognised species, with two previous 
NN02 records from Glen Nant (2015 and 2017).
Tipula fulvipennis
A female was found in Soft Rush mire habitat close to the 
“accident blackspot” sign at the dam access road on 24/8 – 
another new cranefly for the survey. This is a common damp 
grassland species, more common in the west, and there are 
previous NN02 records from Glen Nant (1976 and 2019).
Tipula oleracea
Three were located in damp grassland at the dam access 
road north of Lochawe on 18/6. This is a common grassland 
species (19 OTs in Argyll) that can be particularly abundant 
in autumn. There are past NN02 records, including one from 
Cruachan Reservoir in 2014, and Glen Nant.
Tipula paludosa
This is a common autumnal species of crane-fly and two 
were recorded on 24/8, one flushed from damp grassland  
Pedicia rivosa, with its 
distinctively-patterned 
wings, was recorded  
for the first time at  
Cruachan Reservoir
beside the reservoir access road and another on the wall of 
the Visitor Centre building. It is well recorded in Argyll with 
records from NN02 in the past from the Visitor Centre, as 
part of Blue Leaf’s survey in 2014, and Glen Nant (2012).
Tipula scripta
A female was attracted to the MV moth trap at the Visitor 
Centre on 24/8. A widespread species in the UK, ubiquitous 
in habitat, but rather scarce in the west of Scotland, with just 
six occupied hectads (nearest at Kinlochlaich 2019) in Argyll 
Mainland.
Tipula confusa
A female was collected from the wall of the Visitor Centre on 
the morning after a moth trapping session on 24/8. This is 
a common species of lowland woodland with a widespread 
distribution in the UK, with eight occupied hectads in Argyll 
(nearest Ledaig 2020) but none previously in NN02.
Epiphragma ocellare
One was attracted to MV light during the moth trapping  
session at the Visitor Centre on 24/8. This is an uncommon 
cranefly and there is only one previous Argyll record – at 
Glasdrum National Nature Reserve in 1976.
10.7.2 
BOMBIDAE – BEE-FLIES 
There is only one Scottish representative of this family, which 
are parasitoids of bumblebees.
Dark-edged Bee-fly Bombylius major
Three of these bee mimics, a true sign of spring, were found 
on 31/5 at the dam access road embankments north of 
Lochawe, visiting dandelion.
10.7.3 
BIBIONIDAE – BIBIONID FLIES 
Bibionids are often conspicuous, swarming small-to-medium 
sized insects – well known to anglers, who base many of 
their fishing flies on the family. There are 20 recorded species 
in the UK, of which one was found in this year’s survey.
Bibio pomonae
This red-thighed Bibionid has been a regular feature of the 
Cruachan surveys and, this year, five were attracted to the 
MV moth trap at Cruachan Visitor Centre on 24/8.
10.7.4 
SYRPHIDAE – HOVERFLIES
It was a very disappointing year for hoverfly sightings with 
just 13 species found over the six days of fieldwork. This 
mirrored the picture nationally, with many observers  
commenting on the lack of both abundance and diversity  
of species on their local patches.
The most recent publication of the State of Pollinating 
Insects (JNCC 2021), one of the UK’s Biodiversity Indicators, 
highlights a trend of long-term reduction in the populations 
of many species of hoverfly.
The index shows a gradual decline between 1987 and 
2000. In 2000, the composite index was approximately 74% 
of the value in 1980. The trend was relatively stable up until 
2009, before declining again, ending 41% lower than the 
value in 1980.
A greater proportion of hoverflies have declined than  
increased in occupancy over both the long and short term. 
In the period 1980 to 2017, 55% of 229 monitored  
species have decreased and only 15% increased. In the 
same period, populations of wild bees have also declined, 
but less sharply, and the report states: “It is not clear why 
hoverflies show a different trend to bees, although  
differences in the life cycle will mean they respond differently 
to weather events and habitat change.”
The year-total of 13 species is the lowest ever recorded in 
the Cruachan survey – and by some margin. The next three 
lowest totals are 21 (2011), 24 (2010) and 26 (2017) that 
compare to the best year for species’ diversity, which was 
44 in 2014. For the first time, no new hoverflies were added 
in 2021 to the Cruachan site list – which remains at 83  
species – although a small number of specimens are still 
to be processed. The cold, wet and dull conditions in May 
Cruachan Power Station Biodiversity Survey 2021
PAGE 48
Some of the common, widespread flies recorded in 2021, from left, Sicus ferrugineus, Tipula oleracea and Dark-edged Bee-fly
GRAPH 7: TREND MAP FROM STATE OF POLLINATING INSECTS 
(JNCC 2021) SHOWING THE LONG-TERM DELCINE IN HOVERFLIES
undoubtedly contributed to a dearth of spring records. 
Although there has been a reduced effort in recording 
hoverflies in recent surveys, it was remarkable that only 
two species were found casually on the 31/5 visit and only 
one species was seen in June, despite clement conditions 
during fieldwork on 18-19/6. Diversity improved in July, with 
the presence of important flowering nectar plants such as 
Common Hogweed and Common Knapweed resulting in 11 
species being recorded, while nine types of hoverfly were 
present in August, with Devil’s-bit Scabious generating most 
of the flower-visit records.
New information from the Hoverfly Recording Scheme 
indicates that a total of 91 species have been recorded in 
NN02, the 10km2 in which Cruachan is contained. 
It is clear that records supplied by Blue Leaf on behalf 
of the power station have contributed greatly to this total, 
which is three times higher than the mean total (35) of the 
eight surrounding hectads.
10.7.4.1 SYSTEMATIC LIST
Melonastoma mellinum
A female was nectaring at Yellow Saxifrage near Cruachan 
Reservoir’s east side car park on 13/7.
Episyrphus balteatus
The most regularly encountered hoverfly in 2021, with  
sightings on three dates. The first was at the dam access 
road north of Lochawe village on 18/6 but it was the only 
species recorded on the June visit. On 14/7, two were at the 
Contractors Compound then, on 24/8, two were at the dam 
access road with a female at the Visitor Centre wildflower 
garden, where it was egg laying among amphids that had 
congregated on Common Kanpweed stems.
Syrphus vitripennis
A female was captured and identified under a hand lens 
on 13/7, as it refuelled on Yellow Saxifrage near Cruachan 
Reservoir’s east side car park.
Syrphus ribesii
There were a couple of summer sightings, with two females 
on bramble at the Site Office entrance on 13/7, with a single 
egg-laying among aphids at the Visitor Centre on 24/8.
PAGE 49
Syrphus ribesii lays its 
eggs on a Common 
Hogweed flower head 
that is infested with 
aphids and, from top, 
Episyrphus balteatus, 
Leucozona lucorum and 
Meliscaeva cinctella 
were all seen in 2021
Meliscaeva cinctella
A male was attracted to Buddleia at Cruachan tailrace on 
23/8, a typical late-year sighting.
Leucozona glaucia
There was the usual rash of sightings in high summer of 
this species visiting Common Hogweed. A total of 10 were 
recorded on the umbellifer at the Contactors Compound on 
14/7, with two at the Visitors Centre the same day.
Leucozona lucorum
There were records on the first and last dates of the survey. 
On 31/5, one was visiting Ramsons flowers in the Allt  
Cruachan gorge at Contractors Compound then a female 
was egg laying among aphids at the Visitor Centre (24/8).
Eristalis tenax
Two of this large Eristaline were recorded on 24/8, nectaring 
among the profuse Devil’s-bit Scabious stands at the dam 
access road north of Lochawe.
Eristalis pertinax
Numbers peaked on 24/8 when 11 were counted visiting 
Devil’s-bit Scabious beside the dam access road. Earlier, 
on 14/7, a single was nectaring on bramble flowers at the 
Contractors Compound with two on Common Knapweed 
the same day at the Visitor Centre wildflower area.
Eristalis intricaria
Singles were recorded on 14/7 at the Visitor Centre gardens 
and on 24/8 at the east side of the dam access road.
Chrysogaster solstitialis
The only sightings were two on Common Hogweed at the 
Contractors Compound on 14/7.
Sericomyia silentis
The peak count involved six seen in the vegetated margins 
of the dam access road on 24/8. On 13/7, one visited Yellow 
Saxifrage near Cruachan Reservoir with two at the Visitor 
Centre wildflower area the same day.
Xylota segnis
The first was at Ramsons at the Falls of Cruachan gorge on 
31/5. Five were at the Loch Awe sites on 14/7, with two at 
the dam access road on 24/8.
10.7.5 
CONOPIDAE – CONE-HEADED FLIES 
Conopids are a family of small to medium-sized parasitic 
flies that are often wasp-like and elongate with long  
antennae and often brown-marked wings. There are 24 UK 
species, two of which have been found at Cruachan.
Sicus ferrugineus
This is the most common and widespread of the UK’s 
Conopid flies and has been regularly recorded at Cruachan 
since 2010, when it was the first record for Argyll. A female 
was at the Visitor Centre on 14/7, a day when the wildflower 
meadow was alive with bumblebees. This species is an 
endoparasite of worker bumblebees, pouncing on them in 
flight and injecting an egg into its abdomen that develops 
into a larvae.
10.7.6 
CALLIPHORIDAE – BLOW-FLIES
There were few sightings of bluebottles Calliphora and 
greenbottles Lucilia at Cruachan during the year and none 
was taken as specimens. One species, identifiable in the 
field, was recorded at the power station.
Cynomya mortuorum
This large blueish-green carrion fly was found at Common 
Hogweed at the Contractors Compound on 14/7.
10.7.7 
RHAGIONIDAE – SNIPE-FLIES
This is a group of distinctive long-legged and slender-bodied 
flies that are often associated with wet habitats such as  
riparian grassland and damp woodland. One species was 
recorded at Cruachan in 2021.
Downlooker Snipefly Rhagio scolopaceus
Two were seen perched on fenceposts in the lower section 
of dam access road on 18/6.
10.7.8 
SCATHOPHAGIDAE – DUNG-FLIES
Around 55 species of dung-fly occur in the UK – although 
only a handful rear their larvae in faecal matter. 
Yellow Dung Fly Scathophaga stercoraria
Small numbers were recorded on several visits. Two were 
at the Site Offices on 31/5 with more recorded on 14/7 at 
Common Hogweed at the Contractors Compound.
Rhagio scolopaceus
Cruachan Power Station Biodiversity Survey 2021
PAGE 50
Sericomyia silentis
Eristalis tenax nectaring at Devil’s-bit Scabious in August
Eristalis pertinax
Cynomya mortuorum
10.8 
HYMENOPTERA
10.8.1 
SYMPHATA – SAWFLIES
There are more than 1000 species of Symphata in the  
UK: many are colourful and well-marked but members of 
individual tribes are often so similar, identification to  
specific species requires microscopic analysis. Several  
unidentified species were seen, one individual was was  
identified to its genus only and another’s identity was  
confirmed due to presence of its distinctive larva. 
Trichiosoma sp (Cimbicidae)
A large Cimbid sawfly was recorded in flight and visit-
ing Goat Willow catkins on 31/5, in a wooded gorge at 
NN10774 26481, beside the dam access road west of 
Lochawe village. It could not be caught for identification but 
the surveyor considered it was likely Trichiosoma lucorum, 
whose larvae feed on willows and birches – both common 
tree species in the area. 
Scabious Sawfly Abia candens (Cimbicidae)
A second Cimbid sawfly was found on 24/8, although this 
time it was in its larval stage. The grey, yellow and black 
larvae of Abia candens was on its host plant Devil’s-bit 
Scabious but it unfortunately had fallen prey to a Picromerus 
bidens shieldbug.
10.8.2 
VESPIDAE – SOCIAL WASPS
Two species were recorded of this familiar group of large  
yellow-and-black patterned wasps. Both have been  
recorded regularly in the Cruachan survey.
Red Wasp Vespula rufa (Vespidae)
A worker was recorded nectaring at flowering Yellow 
Saxifrage at Cruachan Reservoir (13/7) – this species has 
regularly been recorded using this plant on subalpine ledges 
in past surveys.
Common Wasp Vespula vulgaris (Vespidae)
Relatively scarce, a queen was recorded on 31/5 at the Site 
Offices, with another on 17/6 near Cruachan Reservoir. An 
active nest was found at the lower part of the dam access 
road on 13/7, where a single male was still present, on 
blackberry, on 24/8.
PAGE 51
A pair of Picromerus 
bidens shieldbugs at the 
dam access road – the 
presumed male has a 
‘trophy’ for its partner, 
the larvae of the rare UK 
sawfly Abia candens
10.8.3 
CRABRONIDAE – DIGGER-WASPS
These are commonly known as digger-wasps as they create 
nesting burrows in wood or soft soils, such as sand or ash. 
Adults provision their nesting chambers with small insects 
as food for their larvae. One species were re-recorded at 
Cruachan for the first time in seven years.
Field Digger Wasp Argogorytes mystaceus
One was seen visiting Common Lady’s-mantle Alchemilla 
vulgaris in the Visitor Centre wildflower meadow on 17/6,  
the third sighting for the survey after records in 2012 and 
2014. This ground-nesting wasp was likely hunting for the 
larvae of froghoppers (Homoptera) with which to provision 
larders for its young.
10.8.4 
ANDRENIDAE – MINING-BEES
Two species of Andrena bee were seen at Cruachan in 2021 
– one of which was identified in the field and the other taken 
as a specimen. Andrenidae is a family of solitary, ground-
nesting bees with around 70 species in the UK. The eroded 
embankments beside the reservoir access road is prime 
habitat and likely to produce a further range of species.
Chocolate Mining Bee Andrena scotica
Two were seen beside the dam access road on 31/5 and 
nesting may have taken place, as one was seen entering an 
old vole hole in the road embankment.
Andrena sp
A small Andrena bee was swept from beneath oak trees on 
31/5, at the dam access road near the ‘Titanic’. The identity 
of this species will be determined by microscopy and we will 
then report back to the client. 
10.8.5 
HALICTIDAE – FURROW-BEES
This family includes some of the most common and  
widespread species of solitary bee in the UK. They may form 
large nesting aggregations in soil, where they excavate cells 
for their larvae. Two species have been recorded in past  
surveys at Cruachan and specimens were taken in 2021. 
Lasioglossum sp
Two specimens were collected from Tormentil beside the 
dam access road on 31/5 and 17/6. These have been  
retained for microscopy and we will report back our findings 
to the client at a future date. 
Sphecodes sp
A very small Sphecodes specimen was collected on 31/5 
from the embankment beside the dam access road, north  
of Lochawe village. We will report on the identity of this 
specimen at a future date.
10.8.6 
APIDAE – FLOWER-BEES AND BUMBLEBEES
Apidae is a very diverse family that includes the familiar 
honey-bee and bumblebees plus the rather obscure  
kleptoparasitic Nomad bees.
Of interest, a new species of bumblebee, the Tree  
Bumblebee Bombus hypnorum, was recorded for the 
Cruachan survey on the 2019 visits and re-recorded in the 
current survey. 
The first Scottish sighting was as recently as 2013, but 
it has spread rapidly and is now common and widespread 
over much of the country. Meanwhile, Buff-tailed Bumblebee 
Bombus terrestris was recorded for only the second time at 
the power station, after one in 2009.
Nomada marshamella
Good numbers were seen in late May, despite the poor 
weather in the early part of the month. On 31/5, a total of 
Cruachan Power Station Biodiversity Survey 2021
PAGE 52
four were recorded on exposed road embankments in the 
east section of the dam access road then, on 17/6, one was 
still present in the area.
Common Carder Bee Bombus pascuorum
Recorded from May until August, but with a notable late 
summer peak. On 24/8, 28 were nectaring at Devil’s-bit 
Scabious in the vegetated verges of the dam access road 
north of Lochawe village, with 12 at the Visitor Centre gar-
dens on Common Knapweed and eight at the Contractors 
Compound. Until then, all sightings involved single figure, for 
instance: One on Goat Willow catkins (18/5), six on Tormen-
til, Bird’s-foot Trefoil and Marsh Thistle (18/6) – both at the 
dam road – and four on blackberry flowers at the Site Office 
entrance on 14/7.
Buff-tailed Bumblebee Bombus terrestris
A queen was found at Common Knapweed at the Visitor 
Centre wildflower meadow on 24/8, representing only the 
second sighting at Cruachan since 2009.
white-tailed bumblebee Bombus lucorum sp
There were sightings from June to August, with most pre-
sent in mid-summer when it was the most common species 
seen at Cruachan. Early on (17/6), three queens were visiting 
Tormentil at the dam access road but it was more abundant 
and widespread on 13/7 – four on Wild Thyme at Cruachan 
From left, the parasitic bee Nomada marshamella, Buff-tailed Bumblebee and one of the white-tailed bumblebee complex
PAGE 53
Dam, six on Yellow Saxifrage at the east side approach road 
to the reservoir, four at the Site Office entrance on blackberry 
blossom and 12 at the Visitor Centre wildflower meadow on 
blackberry, Creeping Thistle and Common Knapweed. 
Fair numbers were still present on 23/8, including four  
on Buddleia at Cruachan Tailrace and at least four on  
Devil’s-bit Scabious at the dam access road. The ‘white-
tailed’ complex consists of three different species that can-
not be reliably identified in the field.
Tree Bumblebee Bombus hypnorum
This recent Scottish colonist was recorded in the abandoned 
2019 survey, when a queen was seen at Viburnam at the 
Visitor Centre gardens (10/6). It was re-recorded in the  
current period with all records on 24/8 when it was  
widespread at the survey sites. Two queens visited the  
flowering Buddleia globulossa at Cruachan tailrace and 
singles were on Devil’s-bit Scabious at the dam access road 
and Common Knapweed at the Contractors Compound.
Small Garden Bumblebee Bombus hortorum
Rather scarce in this year’s survey, one visited Wild Thyme 
(13/7) on the rocky dam road embankment south of  
Cruachan Dam, then one was at the Visitor Centre  
wildflower meadow on 24/8, nectaring at Common  
Knapweed and Creeping Thistle.
Early Bumble-bee Bombus pratorum
All sightings involved workers, with two on Tormentil at the 
dam access road on 17/6 and four on blackberry blossom 
at the Site Office entrance on 14/7. 
Two of the familiar bumblebees species found at Cruachan 
(from left), Common Carder-bee and the Early Bumblebee
Tree Bumblebee visiting 
Devil’s-bit Scabious at the 
reservoir access road
11.0 
ASSESSING THE VALUE OF THE RECORDS
Blue Leaf has examined available biodiversity record  
databases in an attempt to put into a local and regional  
context, the species found at Cruachan Power Station  
during the 2021 survey.
Argyll’s freshwater and upland areas have long been  
recognised as important landscapes and special habitats 
while the region is the last stronghold for its Atlantic  
Rainforest with its special biodiversity interest.
The region has a small cohort of professional and  
non-vocational biodiversity recorders, many of whom will 
submit records to recording schemes to improve the  
scientific knowledge of species in the area and further afield.
Many other records have been generated by condition 
assessment of the region’s SSSIs, such as Coille Leitire near 
the power station and reservoir.
There is a number of ways to access this information but 
the main routes used by Blue Leaf have been the NBN Atlas 
database, atlases of species’ occurrence (for birds) and 
datasets held by recording schemes.
11.1 
NATIONAL BIODIVERSITY NETWORK
Records obtained during fieldwork in 2021 were compared 
with available information on past sightings in the Cruachan 
area using the resources of the National Biodiversity Network 
(NBN) and other publicly-accessible datasets.
NBN is a charity established to provide a more joined-up 
approach to biological recording in the UK. The NBN is a 
partnership of UK conservation and wildlife groups,  
Government and central authorities, environmental  
agencies, biological record centres and many voluntary 
groups, such as bird clubs and natural history societies.
The NBN collates all available data on UK species and 
enters individual records on to a national database, the  
NBN Atlas, to produce maps of national occurrence for 
birds, mammals, insects, plants etc.
Almost 204 million individual records had been processed 
in this way by December 2021, making the NBN Atlas a  
valuable tool for researchers. The standard of recording var-
ies dramatically, however, across the taxonomic  
Cruachan Power Station Biodiversity Survey 2021
PAGE 54
Plain Wave has not been recorded before in NN02 and has a restricted range in Argyll, occurring in only two other hectads
Cruachan Power Station but do indicate a presence (or lack 
of it) in the general area.
A species search using NBN Atlas identified that a total 
of 2446 species have been recorded within a 5km radius 
of the station’s Site Offices – 906 animals, 1085 plants and 
451 species of fungi. Of the animals, 128 species are birds, 
with 21 mammals and 646 types of insects. Many of these 
records have been contributed to recording societies as a 
result of past survey work at Cruachan Power Station.
11.3 
COMPARISON WITH NNO2 DATASET
A total of 34 species, including Eurasian Badger and 22  
species of moth, were recorded by Blue Leaf Nature for the  
first time at Cruachan Power Station in 2021. 
These species were examined against the NBN Atlas  
database and other sources to determine if they had  
occurred previously in hectad NN02.
Eurasian Badger has almost comprehensive coverage 
across Argyll’s hectads and has been recorded in NN02 on 
seven occasions, although most are from Taychreggan area 
and none has been reported before from Coille Leitire.
Most of the 22 ‘new’ macro-moths found at Cruachan in 
2021 are previously known from NN02 – based on  
information supplied by the county moth recorder David Hill. 
Only three species are first records for the hectad.
PAGE 55
New crane-fly species for hectad NN02, from left, the rare Scottish species Epiphragma ocellare, Tipula confusa and Tipula scripta. And right, the Chocolate Mining Bee Andrena scotica
Chequered Skipper and Small Copper have both been 
recorded in NN02 with three and two previous records 
respectively, all to the west of Cruachan.
Two species of crane-fly have also been recorded before 
locally, Pedicia rivosa and Tipula fulvipennis. Meanwhile, Tree 
Bumblebee has been recorded 
before at Cruachan by Blue Leaf in 
the abandoned survey in 2019.
This leaves nine invertebrate 
species found in 2021 that are  
apparently new to the hectad.
These include one beetle, three 
macro-moths, three crane-flies, a 
sawfly and a mining bee.
Since the survey started at 
Cruachan in 2009, a total of 288 
species, apparently new to NN02, 
have been recorded by Blue Leaf.
The contribution to the list in 
2021 was low in comparison with 
recent years but this may be  
attributed to the unsettled weather 
for much of the survey period and 
the fact few insect specimens 
were taken during fieldwork. 
families. Birds, mammals and vascular plants tend to be well 
recorded while information for other taxa, including many 
invertebrate families, is deficient.
There are far fewer recorders studying true-flies, solitary 
wasps, beetles and bugs, than there is for people counting 
birds or watching butterflies. There is also a lack of  
accessible reference material for many invertebrate groups 
– all of which combines to put off casual observer from trying 
to tackle ‘difficult’ families.
The NBN Atlas dataset is only as good as the quality of 
data being inputted and it can take a considerable period 
for the online maps to be updated, especially for the more 
obscure species’ groups. The absence of a record is  
therefore not confirmation that a species is not present or 
has not been recorded at a particular site.
11.2 
CRUACHAN AND THE NBN
Cruachan Power Station is located in the 100km square  
denoted by the prefix ‘NN’ which is subdivided into a  
hundred units measuring 10km2 (a hectad).
The Site Offices, Visitor Centre, Cruachan Reservoir and 
much of the Reservoir Access Road are located in the 10km 
square NN02. Cruachan’s landholding is located at the 
north of the hectad. As the data is displayed on a hectad 
basis, the NBN Atlas’ records may not necessarily relate to 
SPECIES NEW TO  
CRUACHAN NN02
COLEOPTERA
Violet Ground Beetle
LEPIDOPTERA
Plain Wave Red Carpet 
Shaded Broad-bar
DIPTERA 
Epiphragma ocellare 
Tipula scripta 
Tipula confusa
HYMENOPTERA
Scabious Sawfly
Andrena scotica
11.4 
COMPARISON WITH NATIONAL DATASETS
Despite its limitations for many groups of invertebrates, the 
NBN Atlas is the best tool available to explore the records 
obtained at Cruachan in a national and UK context.
Blue Leaf searched its database for the nine species  
found during 2021 that have been determined as being 
‘new’ to NN02, to establish the extent of their presence in 
Argyll, Scotland and the UK in general.
It would appear that none of the nine species are unknown 
from Argyll Mainland (VC98), although some are scarce and 
others rare in a national context.
This is the  rst time that survey work has not turned up a 
new species for the Vice-county and it compares to six new 
Argyll Mainland species in 2019 and seven in 2017. A total 
of 74 new species for Argyll Mainland have been recorded 
by the Blue leaf survey at Cruachan since 2009.
11.4.1 
COLEOPTERA – BEETLES
One new species of beetle for NN02 was recorded – the 
Violet Ground Beetle at the lower section of the dam access 
road in August.
This is a widespread species in Scotland, with a presence 
in more than a thousand Scottish hectads, and it can be 
abundant in woodlands, moorland and other undisturbed 
habitats. It is found in seven hectads in Argyll Mainland, with 
a total of 53 records spanning the period 1973-2020.
Most of these sightings are from coastal areas and along 
the shore of sea lochs such as Loch Etive, with a cluster 
inland near the Arrochar Alps.
Large swathes of inland are apparently unoccupied, or the 
beetle has not been reported, and there have been no past 
sightings, from NN02 with the nearest sighting at Ben Lui 
National Nature Reserve in 1986. 
Cruachan Power Station Biodiversity Survey 2021
PAGE 56
Violet Ground Beetle
Seven Argyll OHs,  
nearest Ben Lui (1986)
1177 Scottish records. 
Common, widespread
BEETLE SPECIES 
NEW TO NN02
ATLAS RECORDS FOR  
ARGYLL MAINLAND
SCOTTISH STATUS 
AND RECORDS
TABLE 17: SPECIES OF COLEOPTERA FOUND AT CRUACHAN, NEW 
FOR NN02 AND LEVELS OF OCCURRENCE AT NATIONAL LEVEL
Violet Ground Beetle is a new species for NN02 but a database search shows there are 53 past records from Argyll
11.4.2 
LEPIDOPTERA – MOTHS
Plain Wave, Red Carpet and Shaded Broad-bar have all 
been confirmed as new additions to the NN02 list by the 
VC98 moth recorder David Hill.
Of these species, Plain Wave appears to have the most 
restricted range in the Vice-county with only two other  
occupied hectads where there have been a total of 14 
individual records. The nearest venue is at Dalvuie in 2019 
but all the past reports are focused on the area around Loch 
Etive and Loch Creran, therefore the Cruachan sighting is 
the first inland for VC98.
This species is undergoing a rapid increase in population 
nationally – The State of the UK’s Larger Moths report in 
2013 suggested its numbers had increased by 634% in the 
40 years to 2007).
The Highland branch of Butterfly Conservation state that 
it is “a local species that is rarely seen in numbers” in the 
region in high-quality woodland habitats with a Blaeberry 
underlayer, such as found in the Great Glen and Speyside.
In contrast, Red Carpet is Amber-listed as a species of 
conservation concern. The upland species has decreased 
by 92% in abundance and been lost in 62% of its range in 
the past 50 years.
There are only five records of Red Carpet from three VC98 
hectads, all at higher altitudes between 2006 and 2017. A 
series of records have come from two consecutive hectads 
in Glen Coe area while the nearest record to Cruachan is 
from Ben Lui (NN92) in 2006.
Shaded Broad-bar is another Amber List species and is 
uncommon in the west of Scotland. The Cruachan  
sighting was at the very start of its flight season and its early 
emergence may have been in response to sunny conditions 
in April. There have been eight previous Argyll Mainland  
records from six scattered hectads along the coast from 
Loch Melfort to Loch Creran. Again, the Cruachan sighting  
is the first for NN02 and first inland in VC98 – the closest 
sighting to the power station is at Ledaig (NM93) in 2013.
11.4.3 
DIPTERA – TRUE-FLIES
The crane-fly Epiphragma ocellare is a rare species in Argyll 
and Scotland in general. There is just a single past record 
from one other occupied hectad in VC98. It was found in 
1976 during site condition monitoring at Glasdrum National 
Nature Reserve (NM94) by Alan Stubbs, the pre-eminent 
expert in UK crane-flies.
It is likely that this woodland species is genuinely scarce 
as it is very distinctive in appearance, due to the circles  
pattern on its wings that makes it possible to identify in the  
field. NBN highlights only 35 past records in Scotland.
The other two species of crane-fly that are apparently  
new to NN02 are much more common and widespread 
nationally. Tipula scripta has been recorded eight times from 
four Argyll hectads, mostly from Bute area with two records 
from the coastal fringe north of Oban. The six Bute sightings 
are historical, dating back to 1899 and 1900.
There are 14 records of Tipula confusa from six hectads 
in the region, again including some historical records from 
Bute. Elsewhere, it has been found near Eredine on Loch 
Awe (NM91, 1973) and in three hectads near Loch Etive. 
11.4.4 
HYMENOPTERA – BEES, WASPS AND ANTS 
There are only 20 past records of Scabious Sawfly  
Abia candens in Scotland but the Cruachan Power Station 
sighting in 2021 fits into a defined pattern of occurrence in 
Argyll, where it is know from six hectads.
There are six individual records on the NBN database,one 
in each hectad. There is a cluster of four records in four 
separate hectads around Loch Melfort in the past 10 years 
plus sightings to the east in Glen Fyne (2011) and Glen Croe 
(2010). The Cruachan sighting sits slightly north but  
approximately in the middle of both known past clusters and 
the timeframe of the records suggests the sawfly may be 
increasing in occurrence.
International Symphata Andrew Liston (per comms) says 
he expects to receive no more than one record a year of this 
species from Scotland. Many of the past Argyll sightings, 
like at Cruachan, have involved the sawfly’s distinctive larvae 
with few of the difficult-to-identify adult stage.
The Chocolate Mining Bee is much more common, with 
a total of 18 individual records from five Argyll hectads. 
The nearest to Cruachan was at Inverawe (NN03) in 2019 
– where there has been a series of records – but this is a 
common and widespread species in Scotland.
Finally, a Tree Bumblebee found at Cruachan Site Offices 
on June 10 2019, during the abandoned Blue Leaf survey, 
was the first record for NN02. This is a relatively recent 
colonist to Scotland and it was recorded for the first time in 
Argyll at Drimfern, north of Inverary, in April 2018.
There was just one other Argyll record that year but it 
spread rapidly, with nine sightings in 2019 and 28 reports  
in 2020. It is now widespread in the region and was  
encountered again at Cruachan in August 2021.
PAGE 57
Plain Wave
Two Argyll OHs, nearest 
at Dalvuie (2018)
330 Scottish records. 
Most north of C/Belt
Red Carpet
Three Argyll OHs,  
nearest Ben Lui (2006)
3296 Scottish records. 
Common + widespread
Shaded Broad-bar
Six Argyll OHs, nearest 
Ledaig (2013)
2603 Scottish records. 
Common + widespread
MOTH SPECIES  
NEW TO NN02
ATLAS RECORDS FOR  
ARGYLL MAINLAND
SCOTTISH STATUS 
AND RECORDS
TABLE 18: SPECIES OF MACRO-MOTHS AT CRUACHAN NEW FOR 
NN02 AND LEVELS OF OCCURRENCE AT NATIONAL LEVEL
Plain Wave
Two Argyll OHs, nearest 
at Dalvuie (2018)
330 Scottish records. 
Most north of C/Belt
Red Carpet
Three Argyll OHs,  
nearest Ben Lui (2006)
3296 Scottish records. 
Common + widespread
Shaded Broad-bar
Six Argyll OHs, nearest 
Ledaig (2013)
2603 Scottish records. 
Common + widespread
MOTH SPECIES  
NEW TO NN02
ATLAS RECORDS FOR  
ARGYLL MAINLAND
SCOTTISH STATUS 
AND RECORDS
TABLE 19: SPECIES OF MACRO-MOTHS AT CRUACHAN NEW  
FOR NN02 AND LEVELS OF OCCURRENCE AT NATIONAL LEVEL
Scabious Sawfly
6 Argyll OHs, nearest 
Loch Tralaig (2017)
20 Scottish records. 
Most Argyll & Highland
Chocolate Mining Bee
5 Argyll OHs, nearest 
Inverwere (2019)
464 Scottish records. 
Common + widespread
HYMENOPTERANS 
NEW TO NN02
ATLAS RECORDS FOR  
ARGYLL MAINLAND
SCOTTISH STATUS 
AND RECORDS
TABLE 20: SPECIES OF HYMENOPTERANS AT CRUACHAN NEW 
FOR NN02 AND LEVELS OF OCCURRENCE AT NATIONAL LEVEL
telephone 01475 540791 / 07939 827620
On the cover: The Endangered butterfly Chequered Skipper 
was recorded for the first time at Cruachan in 2021. Top left, 
Common Chiffchaff. Bottom left, Tree Bumblebee
35 Seath Avenue, Langbank, Renfrewshire PA14 6PD 
eastendswift@icloud.com
