 
 
 
 
 
 
 
27 November 2020 
Dear Prime Minister, Chancellor, COP26 President and Minister for Energy and 
Clean Growth, 
Committing to a net zero power system as part of COP26 
We are a group of energy companies investing tens of billions in the coming 
decade, deploying the low carbon infrastructure the UK will need to get to net 
zero and drive a green recovery to the COVID-19 crisis. 
We welcome the leadership shown on the Ten Point Plan for a Green Industrial 
Revolution, and the detailed work going on across government to deliver a net 
zero economy by 2050. We are writing to you to call on the Government to 
signal what this will mean for UK electricity decarbonisation by committing to 
a date for a net zero power system.  
The electricity sector will be the backbone of our net zero economy, and there 
will be ever increasing periods where Great Britain is powered by only zero 
carbon generation. To support this, the Electricity System Operator is putting in 
place the systems, products and services to enable periods of zero emissions 
electricity system operation by 2025. 
Achieving a net zero power system will require government to continue its 
efforts in key policy areas such as carbon pricing, which has been central in 
delivering UK leadership in the move away from coal and has led to UK 
electricity emissions falling by over 63% between 2012 and 2019 alone.  
It is thanks to successive governments’ commitment to robust carbon pricing 
that the UK is now using levels of coal in power generation last seen 250 years 
ago – before the birth of the steam locomotive. A consistent, robust carbon price 
has also unlocked long term investment low-carbon power generation such that 
power generated by renewables overtook fossil fuel power generation for the 
first time in British history in the first quarter of 2020.   
 
Signatories: BP, Drax, National Grid ESO, Sembcorp Energy UK, Shell and SSE 
 
Yet, even with the demise of coal and the progress in offshore wind, more needs 
to be done to drive the remaining emissions from electricity as its use is 
extended across the economy. 
In the near-term, in combination with other policies, continued robust carbon 
pricing on electricity will incentivise the continued deployment of low carbon 
generation, market dispatch of upcoming gas-fired generation with Carbon 
Capture and Storage (CCS) projects and the blending of low carbon hydrogen 
with gas-fired generation. Further forward, a robust carbon price can incentivise 
100% hydrogen use in gas-fired generation, and importantly drive negative 
emissions to facilitate the delivery of a net zero economy. 
Next year, the world’s attention will focus on Glasgow and negotiations crucial 
to achieving our climate change targets, with important commitments already 
made by China, the EU, Japan and South Korea amongst others. An ambitious 
2030 target from the UK will help kickstart the Sprint to Glasgow ahead of the 
UK-UN Climate Summit on 12 December. 
2030 ambition is clearly needed, but to deliver on net zero, deep 
decarbonisation will be required. Previous commitments from the UK on its coal 
phase out and being the first major economy to adopt a net zero target continue 
to encourage similar international actions. To build on these and continue UK 
leadership on electricity sector decarbonisation, we call on the UK to commit 
to a date for a net zero power system ahead of COP26, to match the 
commitment of the US President-elect’s Clean Energy Plan. To ensure the 
maximum benefit at lowest cost, the chosen date should be informed by 
analysis and consider broad stakeholder input. 
Alongside near-term stability as the UK’s carbon pricing future is determined, to 
meet this commitment Government should launch a consultation on a date 
for a net zero power system by the Budget next year, with a target date to 
be confirmed in the UK’s upcoming Net Zero Strategy. This commitment 
would send a signal to the rest of the world that the UK intends to maintain its 
leadership position on climate and to build a greener, more resilient economy. 
 
 
To: 
‒ 
Rt Hon Boris Johnson MP, Prime Minister of the United Kingdom 
‒ 
Rt Hon Rishi Sunak MP, Chancellor of the Exchequer 
‒ 
Rt Hon Alok Sharma MP, Secretary of State for Business, Energy and Industrial 
Strategy and UNFCCC COP26 President 
‒ 
Rt Hon Kwasi Kwarteng MP, Minister for Business, Energy and Clean Growth  
