 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DRAX GROUP PROCEDURE 
Environment, Social and 
Governance (ESG) 
Databook 
Published: 16/03/2023 
Version: 2 
 
DRAX GROUP – ESG Databook 
 
 
 
 
Appendices 
Appendix 1 – Basis of Reporting 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions 
Relevant assured data: Group GHG emissions aligned to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (Scope 1 and 2); 
Group GHG emissions aligned to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (Scope 3); Percentage of emissions in UK; 
Group generation emissions intensity; Group emissions intensity 
Drax reports greenhouse gas emissions against a criterion of operational control. This means that for 
leased sites we will include emissions from all sites that are wholly operated by Drax and Drax have 
control of the emission pathway through the opportunity to select and manage its own suppliers. 
Greenhouse gas emissions are reported in units of carbon dioxide equivalence (CO2e), with conversions 
of included non-CO2 GHGs (CH4, N2O, SF6, PFCs, HFCs, NF3) being made using the AR4 published IPCC 
global warming potentials for a 100-year period without climate carbon feedbacks, as most external 
emissions factors rely on external emissions factors based on AR4 over which we have no control. We 
use the Greenhouse Gas Protocol’s Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard. 
Drax will operate a rolling base year model and will recalculate the base year should there be significant 
changes to the Group’s emissions profile. Examples of significant changes could be structural changes; 
divestment and investment; outsourcing or insourcing of significant emissions; changes in methodology; 
or discovery of significant errors.  Given the commercial fluctuations of Drax activity (i.e. outages, 
operational failures, fuel conversion, market pricing) causing significant changes to emissions profiles 
(i.e. 2015 to 2016, 53% reduction) with no criteria for baseline recalculation being met, setting a 
nominal quantifiable value would be unhelpful and in most years lost as noise. This will not have a 
material impact on external targets as Drax’s target of carbon negative by 2030 is a fixed point and does 
not require reference to a base year.  
The decision on whether to recalculate a base year will be made by the Group Director of Sustainability 
based on the significance of any structural or methodological changes or discovery of errors. A 
materiality exercise could be completed with stakeholders if deemed appropriate.  
DRAX GROUP – ESG Databook 
 
 
 
 
Where externally published emissions factors are used, the first preference will be factors issued by the 
Department of Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA) in the UK and the United States 
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) in the USA. Where suitable emissions factors do not exist, trade 
body, supplier/customer literature and, if required, other reputable external sources will be used. 
Scope 1 and 2 
A scope 2 location-based emissions figure will be reported in the Annual Report and Accounts, based on 
reliable local grid emissions factors. An additional scope 2 market-based emissions figure will be 
reported for 2022, in the Annual Report and Accounts. The market-based emissions will consider 
renewable electricity generation as zero emissions provided suitable contractual instruments are 
applied. 
Any information discovered at a later date will be published as a restatement if the error means the data 
are > +/-5% of the total. 
For uncertainty, it is noted that the emissions subject to an Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS) are required 
to demonstrate quantitative uncertainty within a tight error band (major fuels to +-/1.5%). As this 
covers more than 80% of the Group’s scope 1 and 2 emissions (based on 2019), it is considered 
sufficient to meet the uncertainty requirements of the GHG Protocol. For the remainder of the 
emissions, Drax aims to reduce uncertainty as far as possible by using raw data and reducing estimations 
and data gap methods where practical.  
Emissions are calculated using NCV, this may require a conversion from GCV in some instances. 
Engineering toolbox is used to estimate the difference between NCV and GCV. It is assumed all fuel 
purchased is consumed within the reporting year that the monitoring takes place. 
Scope 3 
Drax reports against scope 3 emissions as defined by the GHG Protocol’s Corporate Value Chain (Scope 
3) Accounting and Reporting Standard and uses the same standard against which to report. Drax reports 
all categories excluding category 13 Downstream leased assets. Drax’s downstream leased assets 
includes a wide variety of activities including farming, woodland plantation, offices, social/sports clubs 
and more, making calculation infeasible. 
DRAX GROUP – ESG Databook 
 
 
 
 
No materiality threshold will be applied to scope 3 reporting when considering emission values. A small 
number of thresholds are applied within certain calculations. Where relevant, these are stated in the 
method statements for each category.  
Any information discovered at a later date will be published as a restatement if the error means the data 
are > +/-15% of the overall scope 3 total. 
Sources of Scope 3 emissions 
Emissions calculation methodology 
Purchased goods and services 
Emissions calculated based on Group reported 
operational Opex. Opex is then broken down by 
Generation, Pellet Production, and Customers, for which 
corresponding emissions factors are used which have 
been calculated, based on Drax data by external 
consultancy Route2. The costs associated with flights, 
rail, mileage and hotels have been excluded from the 
calculations, as these emissions have been accounted for 
within our contracted travel supplier’s data in Group 6.  
 
The upstream emissions for sold coal and gas are 
calculated using the DEFRA WTT. Since Drax is acting as a 
trader, that value includes a portion of the transport of 
the “downstream transportation and distribution”. 
 
Processing and transport emissions from all pellets sold 
to third parties are estimated using the Biomass Carbon 
Calculator. In the absence of emissions data, the average 
of Canadian biomass producer’s GHG profile will be used. 
Capital goods 
Emissions calculated based on Group reported 
operational Capex. Capex is then broken down by each 
area of Generation, Pellet Production and Customers, for 
which corresponding emissions factors are used which 
have been calculated, based on Drax data by external 
consultancy Route2 
DRAX GROUP – ESG Databook 
 
 
 
 
Fuel-and-energy-related activities (not included in 
Scope 1 or 2) 
Quantity of fuels and electricity consumed are measured 
or calculated. Data is then converted to CO2e using the 
DEFRA Greenhouse gas reporting: conversion factors. For 
fuels where DEFRA do not publish accurate factors other 
reliable sources are used, e.g. limestone supply from the 
National Stone Council (USA). 
 
GHG emissions from the biomass supply chain are 
calculated using an in-house method aligned to Ofgem 
reporting requirements and assigned as required for 
scope 3. 
 
Upstream emissions from SF6 in the Group’s consumed 
electricity are based on emissions intensities provided by 
external consultancy Route2. 
 
This category includes power sales. 
 
Given difficulties in accounting for Drax generation within 
the GB National grid, it is assumed that the sales from 
customers businesses are of Drax generated energy first. 
If Drax does not generate sufficient energy to cover the 
sold quantities then we account for the production in 
scope 3, based on emissions intensities and boundaries 
published in electric insights (www.electricinsights.co.uk). 
The fuel mixtures used are based on the most recent. 
verified fuel mix disclosures for each of Haven and Opus. 
The same principle of Customers sold electricity being 
assumed to be Drax generated electricity is also applied 
to the downstream SF6 emissions.  
 
Electricity from Cruachan’s pumped water electricity 
is currently assuming the emissions from pumping as 
the same grid intensity as the grid. However, this 
very conservative as pumped hydro facilities mainly 
utilise excess energy from the grid (ie: surplus of 
wind energy).  
 
Pinnacle vessels fuel usage is included in the Scope 1 
emissions and included in the operational boundary. 
Therefore, the WTT emissions from the marine fuel 
oil is included in this group. All journeys are included 
based on the bill of lading date (start of journey). 
 
WTT emissions from electricity supply are included based 
on the DEFRA Factors for 2021. 
DRAX GROUP – ESG Databook 
 
 
 
 
Upstream transportation and distribution 
Upstream transportation from Pellet Production 
business, covering emissions from operations prior to 
Drax operated pellet plants and emissions associated 
with operations between the Drax operated pellet plants 
and Drax Power Station. Calculated using in-house 
method aligned to Ofgem reporting requirements and 
assigned as required for scope 3. 
 
Data for the upstream supply of sludge to Daldowie pellet 
plant were provided directly from the supplier, Scottish 
Water, based on 2019. This value will be assumed still 
relevant until a significant operational change occurs. 
 
Additional emissions from this category from goods and 
services reported under categories 1 and 2 are calculated 
based on emissions intensities provided by external 
consultancy Route2, based on Drax data. 
Waste generated in operations 
For UK sites, data is broken down by European Waste 
Code. Once waste is identified, the nearest emissions 
factor and closest route (based on R/D code) from the 
waste disposal tab on the DEFRA Greenhouse gas 
reporting: conversion factors are used. 
 
For sites where data are unknown, a figure is calculated 
based on an average from similar operations (eg: tonnes 
of pellets produced, headcount, size of land, or data from 
previous years) and an emissions factor based on sites for 
which data are known. Any waste stream weighing less 
than two tonnes is deemed immaterial and excluded. 
 
All downstream emissions associated with waste will be 
assumed to take place in the year the waste is quantified 
as leaving Drax Group’s responsibility. 
 
Business travel 
Data is provided from records kept by the business' 
contracted travel suppliers and internal HR and facilities 
teams for business travel by rail and air, as well as for 
hotel stays and taxis. These numbers are then multiplied 
by the relevant emissions factors. 
 
Internal expense claims systems are used for the collation 
of mileage travelled by employees in their own cars on 
business, the emissions factor for an average car from 
DEFRA Greenhouse gas reporting: conversion factors is 
used to calculate emissions from the mileage. Where 
business units are unable to measure this, a pro rata 
approach is applied based on known Group mileage and 
head counts. 
DRAX GROUP – ESG Databook 
 
 
 
 
 
Data on hire cars mileage are multiplied by the relevant 
emissions factor using the DEFRA Greenhouse gas 
reporting: conversion factors. For hire car contracts 
where the same data are not available a calculated miles 
per day are applied to other records. 
 
Additional spend via Group credit cards in this respect 
are calculated based on emissions intensities provided by 
external consultancy Route2, based on Drax data. 
 
Employee commuting 
Emissions from commuting are calculated based on the 
number of employees on each site on 31st December. 
Emissions intensities for each site are provided by 
external consultancy Route2, based on Drax data and 
external information on commuting habits. New business 
areas (Pinnacle) which was not included during the 
original Route2 data will use the weighted average as its 
own. Emissions from Working from Home have been 
included in 2022’s calculations. The calculations are 
based off internal Drax information on employee working 
patterns and emissions from the DEFRA factors for 2022. 
Upstream leased assets 
Gas and electricity supply in leased offices, this is supply 
which is outside of the reporting boundary for scope 1 
and 2 emissions. Data are taken from landlord invoices, 
supplier reports and/or meter readings and converted to 
emissions using DEFRA factors. 
 
Where office data are not available, an appropriate 
methodology will be estimated based on the available 
data. This may be, but not limited to, office headcount, 
floorspace or using data from known Drax Group offices. 
 
Downstream transportation and distribution 
Emissions from transport of Daldowie pellets; transport 
of ash; and SF6 emissions within the National Grid are 
based on emissions intensities for each site provided by 
external consultancy Route2, which are based on Drax 
data.  
  
Processing of sold products 
Emissions are be based on emissions intensities from 
Mineral Products Association 
• 
Sustainable Development 
• 
Report 2020, with quantities measured by Drax 
for sold ash.  
For gypsum, an emissions factor for the 15mm Gyproc 
SoundBloc is taken. However, this factor, provided by 
British Gypsum, includes material supply and transport, 
this is therefore conservative. Furthermore, as this 
includes transport, to avoid double accounting no 
DRAX GROUP – ESG Databook 
 
 
 
 
downstream transportation or distribution emissions are 
assigned in that category for gypsum. 
 
All processing is assumed to take place in the year the 
ash is measured for sale. 
 
Use of sold products 
There are four distinct areas for consideration of 
emissions from use of sold products: Daldowie pellets 
(CH4 and N2O); natural gas purchased and sold to end 
users, coal stocks purchased and sold; use of pellets sold 
byto third parties. 
 
The CH4 and N2O emissions from Daldowie pellets are 
calculated using DEFRA emissions factors based on 
recommendation provided by external consultancy 
Route2. 
 
The CH4 and N2O emissions from all pellets (excluding 
Daldowie above) are accounted for using the Drax 
Biomass Carbon Calculator which uses the EU directive.  
 
The combustion emissions from gas and coal sold to end 
users are accounted using the DEFRA emission factors. 
 
End of life treatment of sold products 
This category is not applicable to Drax. 
Downstream leased assets 
Drax excludes this category from reporting as it is 
unfeasible due to the nature of the leases.  
Franchises 
Drax Group does not operate any franchises. 
Investments 
Drax Group does not have any assets under 
management.  
Other (upstream) 
 
Other (downstream) 
 
 
 
 
DRAX GROUP – ESG Databook 
 
 
 
 
Carbon Negative  
In 2019 Drax launched an ambition to become carbon negative by 2030. This ambition is based on more 
GHGs being sequestered into carbon sinks than being emitted from the Group. The boundaries for this 
include all scope 1 and 2 emissions and direct removals  
The ambition is to be calculated based on scope 2 location-based emissions.  
Energy 
Relevant assured data: Group energy consumption 
As required by the Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting (SECR) requirements covered in The 
Companies (Directors' Report) and Limited Liability Partnerships (Energy and Carbon Report) Regulations 
2018, Drax reports all group energy consumption in kWh.  
Energy consumption is reported based on a net calorific value (NCV). In the instance where NCV is not 
available, another source may be used, or a conversion may be necessary. For example, a conversion 
from GCV to NCV for USA fuels is estimated based on Engineering Toolbox.  
There is no materiality threshold applied to the energy reporting, and in the result of a later discovery of 
errors or omissions a restatement will be made should that error be > +/- 5%. 
Water 
Relevant assured data: water abstraction and discharge 
Drax reports its UK water abstraction and return as defined by local regulators (e.g. Environment Agency 
and Scottish Environmental Protection Agency). The data disclosed will therefore align to compliance 
definitions. There is no materiality threshold applied to the water reporting, and in the result of a later 
discovery of errors or omissions a restatement will be made should that error be > +/- 5%. 
 
 
DRAX GROUP – ESG Databook 
 
 
 
 
Headcount 
Relevant assured data: Employment data on headcount as per contracts, country, business unit and 
gender 
Employee headcount data is based on the number of full and part time permanent employees employed 
by the Group on 31 December of the reporting year. These data do not include contractors.  
Restatements 
Unless otherwise stated, if at a later date an error is discovered on data reported though the ESG 
databook system that is > +/- 5% of an overall Group total, then, where necessary, a restatement will be 
made.  
 
 
 
