ALEX TOWNSEND
Senior Consultant - Economics
NABEELA RAJI
Research Analyst
ALEX ZAPANTIS
General Manager - Commercial
2020 THOUGHT LEADERSHIP
THE VALUE OF CARBON 
CAPTURE AND STORAGE (CCS)
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
4
1.0 INTRODUCTION 
6
2.0 CCS IS AN ESSENTIAL CLIMATE MITIGATION TECHNOLOGY 
7
3.0 CCS IS A DRIVER OF EMPLOYMENT AND ECONOMIC GROWTH 
13
4.0 CONCLUSION 
22
5.0 REFERENCES 
23
CONTENTS
THE VALUE OF CCS
3
EXECUTIVE 
SUMMARY
The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) 
and numerous other credible institutions, studies, and 
governments have highlighted the essential role of 
carbon capture and storage (CCS) to economically 
achieving a net-zero emissions global economy. CCS 
technologies are particularly important because they 
both avoid CO2 emissions at point sources, as well as 
decrease at scale the stock of CO2 emissions already in 
the atmosphere through carbon dioxide removal (CDR) 
technologies.
The value of CCS is analysed and discussed under two 
overarching themes in this report: 
CCS is an essential climate mitigation technology.
At the global level, studies such as the IPCC 1.5°C 
report and by the International Energy Agency (IEA) 
consistently show CCS being deployed at significant 
scale to economically meet long-term climate targets. 
For example, in the IEA Sustainable Development 
Scenario, which is consistent with meeting the goals 
of the Paris Agreement, CO2 sequestration globally 
using CCS reaches 2.8 gigatonnes per annum by 2050. 
This would require a one-hundred fold increase in the 
number of CCS facilities in operation relative to today. 
Studies also demonstrate that excluding CCS from the 
suite of technologies used to meet emission reduction 
targets will lead to increased costs. Furthermore, the 
versatility of CCS and its ability to reduce both the flow 
and stock of CO2 makes it a strategic risk management 
tool for climate mitigation. 
At the sectoral level there are four areas where CCS 
has a critical role to play in least-cost net-zero emissions 
pathways. These include:
• 
Achieving deep decarbonisation in hard-to-
abate industry: The cement, iron and steel, and 
chemical sectors are amongst the hardest to abate 
due to their inherent process emissions and high-
temperature heat requirements. CCS provides one 
of the most mature and cost-effective options for 
reducing emissions from these sectors. Several 
reports, including from the Energy Transition 
Commission and the IEA, have concluded that 
achieving net-zero emissions in hard-to-abate 
industry without CCS may be impossible and at 
best more expensive.
• 
Enabling the production of low-carbon hydrogen 
at scale: Hydrogen is likely to play a major role 
in the decarbonisation of hard-to-abate sectors 
and may also be an important source of energy 
for residential heat demand and flexible power 
generation. To reach net-zero emissions, global 
hydrogen production will need to grow significantly, 
from 70 million tonnes per annum today to 425-
650 million tonnes per annum by mid-century. 
Hydrogen produced using coal or natural gas 
with CCS is currently the lowest cost option for 
producing low-carbon hydrogen, and will remain 
the most cost-effective solution in regions where 
fossil fuel prices are low and large resources of 
low-cost renewable electricity for electrolysis are 
not available.
• 
Providing low-carbon dispatchable power: The 
rapid decarbonisation of power generation is 
crucial to achieving net-zero emissions. CCS 
equipped power plants play an important role as 
they help ensure that the low-carbon grid of the 
future is resilient and reliable. Flexible power plants 
with CCS supply dispatchable and low-carbon 
electricity as well as grid-stabilising services, 
such as inertia, frequency control and voltage 
control. These cannot be provided by renewable 
generation, therefore CCS complements the 
increased deployment of renewables.
THE VALUE OF CCS
4
• 
Delivering negative emissions: The deployment of 
negative emissions technologies will be needed to 
compensate for residual emissions in hard-to-abate 
sectors if net-zero emissions targets are to be met. 
CCS provides the foundation for technology-based 
carbon dioxide removal (CDR) solutions including 
bioenergy with CCS (BECCS) and direct air capture 
(DAC). While CDR is not a silver bullet, with every 
year that passes without significant reductions in 
CO2 emissions, the need to use negative emissions 
technologies increases. 
CCS is a driver of economic growth and employment.
CCS can provide clean growth opportunities, create 
and retain jobs, and help ensure a just and sustainable 
transition for communities. Its benefits include: 
• 
Creating and sustaining jobs: CCS creates new 
jobs during the construction and the operation 
of new facilities, as well as in the supply chain. To 
reach the levels of deployment outlined in IEA’s 
Sustainable Development Scenario, more than 
2,000 facilities will be needed by 2050, requiring 
at least 100,000 employees in 2050. There will 
also be jobs associated with the supply of new 
materials, equipment and professional services. In 
addition to creating new jobs, CCS enables high-
emission industries and the jobs they support to 
continue, thereby avoiding local economic and 
social dislocation that could otherwise occur whilst 
meeting climate targets. 
• 
Supporting economic growth through new net-
zero industries and innovation spillovers:  The 
widespread deployment of CCS will create new 
opportunities in the supply of infrastructure and 
technology, the provision of services and finance, 
and the production of low-carbon products. 
Emerging evidence suggests CCS could also be 
a source of high-value innovation spillovers and 
therefore play a role in supporting innovation-led 
economic growth alongside other technologies. 
• 
Enabling 
infrastructure 
re-use 
and 
deferral 
of decommissioning costs: Where oil or gas 
production fields are at the end of their lives, there 
may be opportunities to re-use existing oil and gas 
infrastructure by repurposing it for CO2 transport 
and storage. This could provide a range of benefits, 
including reducing the cost of building transport 
and storage infrastructure and potentially reducing 
permitting time. The re-use of infrastructure could 
also defer the costs and the environmental impact 
of decommissioning, freeing-up resources that can 
be invested in other value generating activities.
• 
Facilitating 
a 
just 
transition 
by 
alleviating 
geographic and timing mismatches: One of the 
key challenges of achieving a just transition is 
the disconnect between the geographic spread 
of job losses and gains, and the timing of these 
changes. Jobs created in low-carbon industries 
may not occur at the same time as job losses in 
high-emission industries. This will reduce the long-
term employment prospects of workers in declining 
industries over time. CCS facilitates a just transition 
by enabling existing industries to make a sustained 
contribution to local economies while transitioning 
to a net-zero economy. 
THE VALUE OF CCS
5
Several 
high-profile 
reports 
and 
experts 
have 
emphasised the need to better understand and 
communicate the benefits of CCS. Reports by the Zero 
Emissions Platform in Europe, the CCUS Cost Challenge 
Taskforce in the UK, and the National Petroleum Council 
in the US, all highlight the importance of further exploring 
and redefining the value of CCS [1][2][3].
This report aims to inform the discussion on the value 
of CCS by providing an overview of recent analyses 
published on the topic and completed by the Global 
CCS Institute.
The report is structured under two overarching themes. 
Section 2 of the report explores the role of CCS as 
an essential climate mitigation technology, focussing 
on how its deployment reduces the costs and risks 
of meeting climate targets. Section 3 of the report 
describes the broader benefits CCS provides to the 
economy, by providing clean growth opportunities, 
creating and retaining jobs, and helping to ensure a just 
and sustainable transition for communities. Section 4 
concludes, with suggestions for future research.
The report focusses on the main sources of value from 
the deployment of CCS. It excludes other, smaller scale 
benefits. For example, the potential benefit of improved 
air quality from the deployment of CCS at fossil fuel 
power plants is not included in the report. The omission 
of these benefits does not prejudice the inclusion of 
them in other studies, but reflects that these tend to be 
smaller in scale and more dependent on the context in 
which CCS is applied.
Throughout the report, country-specific case studies are 
provided to shed light on the value of CCS in practice. 
The case studies primarily focus on Europe and North 
America as these are the regions for which analysis of the 
societal benefits of CCS is most mature and where data 
are readily available. However, many of the conclusions 
of the report will be relevant to other jurisdictions.
1.0 INTRODUCTION
STUDIES SUCH AS THE IPCC 1.5 REPORT AND 
IEA’S SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SCENARIO 
CONSISTENTLY SHOW CCS BEING DEPLOYED 
AT SIGNIFICANT SCALE TO ECONOMICALLY 
MEET LONG TERM CLIMATE TARGETS.
THE VALUE OF CCS
6
The primary reason for investing in CCS is to reduce CO2 
emissions and mitigate the associated environmental 
and economic impacts of climate change. This can be 
viewed from different perspectives, including from a 
global-level and sector-level persepctive.
A global-level perspective
At a global level, Integrated Assessment Models 
(IAMs) and scenario models provide valuable insights 
into the role CCS can play in the transition to a net-
zero emissions economy. These models explore 
the interactions and trade-offs between climate 
and socio-economic systems, and present possible 
emissions pathways to meet a given climate goal. 
IAMs vary in their complexity, coverage, focus and 
methodology, and in doing so strike different balances 
between lowering energy and resource intensity, 
the rate of decarbonisation, and the reliance on 
negative emissions technologies. Given this variability, 
technologies that feature heavily across models and 
scenarios are seen as critical to meeting long-term 
climate targets [4].
Analysis by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate 
Change (IPCC) and International Energy Agency (IEA) 
consistently show CCS being deployed at significant 
scale to meet long-term climate targets. For example, 
in the IEA Sustainable Development Scenario (SDS), 
which is consistent with meeting the goals of the Paris 
Agreement, CO2 sequestration globally using CCS 
reaches 2.8 gigatonnes per annum by 2050 [5]. This 
would require a one-hundred fold increase in the 
number of CCS facilities in operation relative to today [6]. 
 
In the IPCC Special Report on Global Warming of 1.5°C, 
nearly all of the 90 scenarios reviewed include CCS 
in some form. The average mass of CO2 sequestered 
across all scenarios in 2050 is 10 gigatonnes per year, 
with higher levels of deployment linked to greater use 
of negative emissions technologies using CCS [7].
Excluding CCS from the suite of technologies used 
to meet emissions reduction targets will increase 
costs. There are several low-cost applications of CCS, 
such as in gas processing, and ethanol and fertiliser 
production, that are cost-effective to deploy today even 
under relatively modest prices on CO2 emissions [8]. As 
the value on reducing CO2 emissions rises over time 
with tightening climate targets, other applications will 
become cost-effective. In the IPCC’s Fifth Assessment 
Report (AR5), excluding CCS from the portfolio of 
technologies was found to lead to a doubling in the cost 
of reducing emissions required to limit global warming 
to 2°C, the largest cost increase from the exclusion of 
any technology [9].
In addition to being part of the lowest cost pathway, 
investing in CCS today will reduce the risks associated 
with 
meeting 
climate 
targets. 
Developing 
and 
deploying a portfolio of climate mitigation measures, 
including CCS, reduces the risk to achieving emission 
reduction targets due to any single technology not 
meeting expectations. By diversifying the technologies 
available, the exposure of a given mitigation strategy to 
the success or failure of one specific technology will be 
reduced.
2.0 CCS IS AN 
ESSENTIAL CLIMATE 
MITIGATION 
TECHNOLOGY
THE VALUE OF CCS
7
The versatility of CCS and its ability to reduce both 
the flow and stock of CO2 makes it a strategic risk 
management tool for climate mitigation. Deploying CCS 
at scale in low-cost, low-regret applications today, along 
with investment in pioneering CCS projects in harder-
to-abate sectors, provides the foundation to deploy it in 
other applications in the future. 
The value of this versatility has been demonstrated 
across numerous studies, including for example the 
Committee on Climate Change’s (CCC) advice to the 
UK Government on options required to achieve its net-
zero emissions target (Box 1).
In June 2019, the UK became the first major economy 
in the world to pass laws to reach net-zero emissions 
by 2050. To support this decision, the UK Government 
requested advice from the independent Committee 
on Climate Change (CCC) on the date for achieving 
net-zero emissions, how emissions reductions might 
be achieved, and the cost and benefits of pursuing a 
net-zero target. The response provided by the CCC 
was published in May 2019 in its Net-Zero: The UK’s 
Contribution to Stopping Global Warming report [10].
The CCC separated the mitigation options required 
to meet net-zero emissions into Core options, 
Further Ambition options and Speculative options. 
Core options include low-cost, low-regret measures 
that make sense under most strategies to reduce 
emissions by at least 80 per cent by 2050 relative to 
1990 levels.
Further Ambition options include more challenging 
and more expensive options that collectively would 
get the UK close to the net-zero target. Speculative 
options were also considered, to bridge the gap 
between the emissions reductions in the Core and 
Further Ambition options and those required to reach 
net-zero. Each option was assessed based on its 
feasibility, cost, impact on affordability, energy security 
and competitiveness, and consistency with existing 
policies.
CCS features in all of the options presented by the 
CCC and across multiple sectors, demonstrating the 
value it provides in the UK as a versatile emissions 
reduction technology (Figure 1). In the report, 75 to 
175 million tonnes of CO2 per annum is estimated 
to be captured and stored in 2050 in the Core and 
Further Ambition options. This includes CCS on power 
plants to provide firm low-carbon power, in industry 
to reduce process emissions, with the production of 
hydrogen for heat, power and fuel, and with bioenergy 
to provide negative emissions through bioenergy with 
carbon capture and storage (BECCS).
THE ROLE OF CCS IN ACHIEVING THE UK’S NET-ZERO TARGET
CCS IN SPECULATIVE OPTIONS
• Additional BECCS
• At scale direct air capture
• Synthetic fuels
• Higher capture rates
• CCS with fossil fuel power generation
• Low-cost industry applications
• Additional CCS with power generation
• Higher cost industry applications
• CCS with hydrogen production
• BECCS
• Direct air capture (limited)
CCS IN FURTHER AMBITION OPTIONS
CCS IN CORE OPTIONS
80%
80%
96%
100%
96%
100%
EMISSIONS 
REDUCTIONS
RELATIVE TO 
1990 LEVELS
CCS IN SPECULATIVE OPTIONS
• Additional BECCS
• At scale direct air capture
• Synthetic fuels
• Higher capture rates
• CCS with fossil fuel power generation
• Low-cost industry applications
• Additional CCS with power generation
• Higher cost industry applications
• CCS with hydrogen production
• BECCS
• Direct air capture (limited)
CCS IN FURTHER AMBITION OPTIONS
CCS IN CORE OPTIONS
80%
%
96%
100%
96%
100%
EMISSIONS 
REDUCTIONS
RELATIVE TO 
1990 LEVELS
BOX 1: 
Figure 1: CCS in the CCC’s advice to the UK Government on reaching net-zero
THE VALUE OF CCS
8
A sector-level perspective
Looking at the challenges from a sector perspective 
can provide further compelling evidence of the value 
CCS offers as a climate mitigation tool. There are four 
areas where CCS has a critical and valuable role to play 
in the least-cost net-zero emissions pathways. These 
are explored in more detail below, and include:
• 
achieving deep decarbonisation in industry;
• 
enabling the production of low-carbon hydrogen at 
scale;
• 
providing low-carbon dispatchable power; and
• 
delivering negative emissions.
Achieving deep decarbonisation in 
industry
To meet long-term climate targets, industrial production 
will need to be transformed. Industry accounts for 40 
per cent of global energy demand and a quarter of 
global CO2 emissions (Figure 2).
The cement, iron and steel, and chemical sectors 
are the largest source of industrial emissions. These 
industries provide a range of products that are vital to 
everyday life. The iron and steel and cement sectors 
provide the foundation materials for the construction 
sector and infrastructure which supports economic 
growth. The chemicals industry produces a range of 
high-value products, including plastics, rubbers, fibres, 
fertilisers, soaps, pharmaceuticals and glass. Demand 
for the goods produced by industry is expected to grow 
in the future, driven by a growing population, increased 
living standards and economic growth.
The cement, iron and steel, and chemical sectors are 
also amongst the hardest to abate:
• 
One-quarter of industry emissions are process 
emissions that result from chemical reactions 
inherent to production processes. For example, 
in cement production, 65 per cent of emissions 
come from the calcination of limestone, a chemical 
process underlying cement production [11]. These 
emissions cannot be avoided by switching to 
alternative fuels.
• 
One-third of energy demand by industry is used 
to provide high-temperature heat. Switching from 
fossil to low-carbon fuels to generate this heat 
would require significant modifications to facilities 
[11]. Further energy efficiency improvements in 
these facilities are also likely to be limited as high 
energy costs have already incentivised monitoring 
and reductions in energy use [12].
CCS provides one of the most mature and cost-
effective options for reducing emissions from processes 
and high-temperature heat demand. Several reports, 
including from the Energy Transition Commission 
and the IEA, have concluded that achieving net-zero 
emissions in industry without CCS may be impossible 
and at best more expensive [12][11].
THE VALUE OF CCS
9
Figure 2: CO2 emissions by industry and proportion that are process emissions
Enabling the production of 
low-carbon hydrogen at scale
Hydrogen is likely to play a major role in the 
decarbonisation of hard-to-abate sectors and may also 
be an important source of energy for residential heat 
demand and flexible power generation. To reach net-
zero emissions, global hydrogen production will need 
to grow significantly, from 70 million tonnes per annum 
today to 425-650 million tonnes per annum by mid-
century [13][12][14].
The three main technologies used to produce low-
carbon hydrogen today are gas reforming with CCS, 
coal gasification with CCS, and electrolysis powered 
by renewables. Each technology offers its own benefits 
and will play a role in the global energy transition.
The advantages of low-carbon hydrogen production 
through gas reforming and coal gasification with CCS 
centre around the maturity of technologies, scale and 
commercial viability:
• 
Low-carbon hydrogen has been produced through 
gas reforming and coal gasification with CCS for 
almost two decades. The first CCS facility with 
hydrogen production, the Great Plains Synfuel Plant 
in North Dakota in the United States, commenced 
operation in 2000 [15].
• 
Scaling up low-carbon hydrogen production 
with CCS is currently far less challenging than 
scaling up the use of electrolysis. Commercial 
scale hydrogen production facilities with CCS are 
already operating, with five low-carbon hydrogen 
production facilities with CCS operating globally 
and three under construction. These facilities have 
a total production capacity of 1.5 million tonnes of 
hydrogen per annum. The largest facility produces 
over 1,000 tonnes of low-carbon hydrogen per day 
[6].
• 
Hydrogen produced using coal or methane 
with CCS is currently the lowest cost option for 
producing low-carbon hydrogen, with costs of 
US$1.50-2.40 per kilogram compared to US$4.00-
7.45 for hydrogen produced using electrolysis [13]
[16][17].
While the costs of hydrogen produced via electrolysis 
are expected to fall, low-carbon hydrogen produced 
using CCS is and will remain the most commercially 
viable option in the near-term. Even under ambitious 
assumptions on electrolysis, producing hydrogen 
with CCS will continue to be a cost-effective solution, 
particularly in regions where large resources of low-
cost renewable electricity are not available. 
TRANSPORT
POWER
PULP AND PAPER
CEMENT
CEMENT
CHEMICALS:
AMMONIA
CHEMICAL AND
PETROCHEMICAL
ALUMINIUM
IRON AND
STEEL
OTHER INDUSTRY
BUILDINGS
OTHER
Direct
CO2 Emissions
(GtCO2 in 2017)
13.1
1.1
2.2
2.8
8.0
2.0
2.1
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
80%
90%
100%
ENERGY RELATED CO₂ EMISSIONS
PROCESS CO₂ EMISSIONS
THE VALUE OF CCS
10
Providing low-carbon, dispatchable 
power generation
The rapid decarbonisation of power generation is 
crucial to achieving net-zero emissions. Electricity 
generation accounts for around a third of global 
CO2 emissions, making it the largest source of CO2 
emissions globally [5]. Demand for electricity is also 
forecast to increase significantly due to rising living 
standards and the electrification of transport and heat, 
for example with the deployment of electric vehicles.
The rapid deployment and reduction in costs of 
renewable technologies has spearheaded the transition 
to a low-carbon electricity grid. In turn, this has reduced 
the amount of dispatchable power required from 
fossil fuel sources. However, the intermittent nature of 
wind and solar generation creates many challenges 
for electricity systems that must immediately deliver 
electricity in response to changes in demand [18]. This 
reality means that a combination of renewables and 
dispatchable power generation will be required to 
deliver reliable, affordable and low-carbon electricity in 
the future.
CCS equipped power plants provide several services 
to the grid and electricity consumers that cannot be 
provided by renewables. Flexible power plants with 
CCS can ramp power up and down, as-needed, to meet 
demand. They also provide essential grid-stabilising 
services such as inertia, frequency control and 
voltage control. The inertia of huge spinning physical 
components, such as generators, motors and turbines 
in conventional fossil fuel powered plants, slow down 
the rate of change in system frequency and provide 
sufficient time for the system to respond to changes in 
demand. In doing so, they ensure system voltage and 
frequency remain within very tight tolerances [18][19].
The importance of these wider grid services for reliable 
electricity supply means that a holistic assessment of 
various power generation technologies is necessary. 
Historically, decisions relating to the optimal technology 
mix for the future electricity system have been 
structured around the levelised cost of each technology. 
While useful for comparing generation costs for 
technologies of a similar type, the levelised cost of 
generation is not fit for purpose when determining the 
optimum technology mix for a low-emissions electricity 
system. This is because the costs of electricity supply 
not only encompasses the costs of generation, but also 
costs of grid services and transmission and distrubution 
of electricity. These total system costs, which vary 
according to the technology mix in the grid, yield a 
different picture about the costs of a power technology 
in comparison to the levelised cost of generation [21].  
Decisions relating to the optimal technology mix for 
the future electricity system can benefit from holistic 
valuation metrics which provide new insights. For 
example, studies utilising the Systems Value metric, 
which takes a whole systems perspective when 
calculating the value of a technology, demonstrate 
how the value of CCS to the system increases as the 
penetration of renewables increases [18][19][21]. Such 
findings demonstrate how the ability to provide ancillary 
services while supplying dispatchable, low-emissions 
electricity make CCS equipped power plants a highly 
valuable and economically competitive option which 
complements the deployment of other low-carbon 
sources of electricity.
Delivering negative emissions
The deployment of negative emissions technologies 
will be needed to compensate for residual emissions in 
hard-to-abate sectors if net-zero emissions targets are 
to be met.
CCS provides the foundation for BECCS, one of the few 
negative emissions technologies that can be deployed 
at sufficient scale to deliver the goals of the Paris 
Agreement and achieve net-zero emissions by mid-
century. There are a number of commercially successful 
BECCS facilities in operation today. The largest, the 
Illinois Industrial CCS facility, captures one million 
tonnes of CO2 a year from the production of ethanol 
from corn [15].
CCS also provides the basis for direct air capture 
(DAC), a suite of negative emissions technologies 
that use chemicals to directly capture CO2 from the 
atmosphere. The CO2 captured can be permanently 
stored underground, using the same technology 
as other CCS facilities. DAC is at an earlier stage of 
maturity than BECCS, but there are notable examples 
of DAC projects in operation today using technologies 
developed by Climeworks, Carbon Engineering and 
Global Thermostat, for example.
THE VALUE OF CCS
11
BECCS and DAC, like other negative emissions 
technologies, are not without their challenges and 
trade-offs.1 For example, DAC is highly energy-intensive 
owing to the low concentration of CO2 in the air, with 
costs of between $600-$1,000 per tonne of CO2 for 
first-of-a-kind projects. The cost of DAC is expected 
to fall over time, but most studies suggest costs will 
remain between $100-$300 per tonne of CO2 when 
deployed at scale [23]. Scaling up BECCS will require 
the development of supply chains for sustainable 
biomass from the waste products of agriculture and 
forestry, and potentially significant areas of land for the 
cultivation of energy crops.
While it is theoretically possible to reach net-zero 
emissions without BECCS, and without CCS, it will 
be extremely challenging. One of the four illustrative 
pathways in the IPCC Special Report on Global 
Warming of 1.5°C demonstrated how temperature 
rises could be limited to 1.5°C without CCS [24]. This 
would require a rapid reduction in energy intensity of 
around 5 per cent per year between now and 2040. 
In contrast, energy intensity has been falling at a rate 
of only 1.6 per cent since 1990 [5]. Even in the IEA 
Sustainable Development Scenario, which assumes all 
economically viable energy efficiency opportunities are 
pursued, energy intensity improves only by 3.6 per cent 
year-on-year from 2018 to 2040 [5]. Achieving net-zero 
emissions without BECCS therefore looks infeasible.
Negative emissions technologies are not a silver bullet, 
but with every year that passes without significant 
reductions in CO2 emissions, the need to rely on 
negative emissions technologies in reaching the goals 
of the Paris Agreement increases. The development 
and deployment of CCS, which provides the foundation 
for scalable negative emissions technologies, will be 
critical for achieving net-zero emissions.
1 Other negative emission technologies that do not require CCS include afforestation, reforestation, soil sequestration, enhanced weathering and ocean alkinisation.
CCS HAS A CRITICAL ROLE TO PLAY IN 
ACHIEVING DEEP DECARBONISATION IN 
HARD-TO-ABATE INDUSTRY, ENABLING 
THE PRODUCTION OF CLEAN HYDROGEN 
AT SCALE, PROVIDING LOW-CARBON 
DISPATCHABLE POWER AND DELIVERING 
NEGATIVE EMISSIONS.
THE VALUE OF CCS
12
2 Some construction workers will have been involved in other upgrades to the power station undertaken at the same time as the installation of capture equipment. 
3 Based on analysis published by SINTEF [39]. For consistency, the job estimate presented is based on the low scenario in the SINTEF report in which CCS deployment globally 
reaches 1.8 gigatonnes of CO2 per year in 2050. This is slightly below the estimated deployment of CCS in the IEA SDS.
CCS can provide clean growth opportunities, create 
and retain jobs, and help ensure a just and sustainable 
transition for communities. The broader benefits of CCS 
deployment are discussed in this section of the report.
Creating and sustaining jobs
The deployment of CCS creates jobs in the construction, 
operation and maintenance of CCS facilities. It also 
supports employment at the industrial plant at which 
CCS is applied and in the associated supply chain.
As large infrastructure projects, the construction 
of large-scale CCS facilities requires a substantial 
construction workforce. While the numbers vary 
by facility type and stage of construction, there are 
generally several hundred and often thousands of 
people involved in the construction of a CCS facility 
at any point in time. For example, 1,700 people were 
employed at peak construction for the Boundary 
Dam CCS facility in Canada [25].2 Similarly, around 
2,000 people were estimated to be employed at 
peak construction for the Alberta Carbon Trunk Line 
[26]. These jobs are temporary, lasting only for the 
construction phase of the projects development, but 
provide employment opportunities for a mix of low and 
high skilled workers.
The operation of a CCS facility on the other hand 
requires a relatively small number of workers, but 
these jobs are long-lived, lasting for the duration of the 
capture plants operation. For example, data collected 
from carbon capture facilities currently operating 
suggests around 20 people are employed in the 
operation of a capture plant. The individuals typically 
work shift patterns and include a combination of 
managers, operators, maintenance personnel and lab 
technicians.
The number of people employed in the construction 
and operation of CCS facilities will need to increase 
significantly if long-term climate targets are met. For 
example, to reach the levels of deployment outlined in 
the IEA Sustainable Development Scenario (SDS), over 
2,000 CCS facilities would need to be in operation 
by 2050, requiring a build rate of 70-100 facilities per 
year. This would require around 70,000 to 100,000 
construction workers and 30,000 to 40,000 capture 
facility operators globally. The operation of the 
transport and storage network would require additional 
workers. In Europe alone, an additional 10,000 could 
be employed in a centralised transport and storage 
industry in the North Sea.3
The deployment of CCS also enables high-value 
industries to continue to make a sustained contribution 
to economies by enabling them to make the transition to 
a net-zero economy [27]. The iron and steel, chemicals, 
refinery, cement and other industrial sectors employ 
millions of people globally, are large, local employers, 
and provide a range of products that are essential to 
everyday life (Figure 3). These industries often co-locate 
in regions with good access to infrastructure such as 
port and rail, and the necessary inputs to production 
such as energy resources, feedstocks and skilled 
3.0 CCS IS A DRIVER 
OF EMPLOYMENT 
AND ECONOMIC 
GROWTH
THE VALUE OF CCS
13
workers. This results in the local communities in which 
they are based being particularly dependent on them 
for employment.
In the absence of CCS, high-emissions industries 
will become incompatible with net-zero emission 
commitments causing those industries, and the 
communities that rely upon them, to go into decline. 
CCS enables those industries and the jobs they support 
to continue, as well as creating new jobs as is discussed 
elsewhere in this report. While it is difficult to quantify 
the impact of CCS on jobs in industrial areas, it is clear 
that by converting high-emissions industries to low-
emissions industries, CCS can play an important role 
in avoiding local economic and social dislocation that 
might otherwise result from meeting ambitious climate 
targets.
Figure 3: Global employment in selected sectors and employment at a typical plant
Source: Global CCS Institute analysis of published reports, national statistics and company level reporting. 
Size of bubble indicates number of employees at a typical plant [28][29][30][31][32][33][34]
6 million
Iron & steel
Cement
1 million
Aluminium
<1 million
Paper & pulp
4 million
Reﬁned petroleum products
3 million
Chemicals & petrochemicals
15 million
INTEGRATED 
STEEL MILL
(4 mt/yr)
AMMONIA 
PLANT
(1,500 t/day)
PULP MILL
(800,000 adt/yr)
COAL FIRED 
POWER PLANT
(1 GW)
INTEGRATED 
CEMENT PLANT
(1.25 mt/yr)
REFINERY
(250,000 b/day)
1,500 - 2,500
700 - 1,500
50 - 100
100 - 200
100 - 200
200 - 400
THE VALUE OF CCS
14
As well as being a source of a large number of jobs 
to local communities, emissions-intensive industries 
provide high paid jobs, an important measure of job 
quality [35]. This is demonstrated by the positive wage 
premium in these industries, which is equal to the 
average wage paid by a specific industry minus the 
average wage in the region or country the industry is 
located. In the US for example, workers in refining, 
chemicals, cement, and iron and steel sectors are paid 
significantly more than the average wage in the state 
they are located (Figure 4). 
The factors contributing to this wage premium are 
numerous, and could include the capital intensity of 
the industry, the concentration of profitable firms, and 
the compensating wage required to reflect the risks of 
the job.4 The trends are similar for the UK, except for 
the cement sector where wages are slightly below the 
average in the country.
Figure 4: Wage premium in emissions-intensive industries in the UK and US
Source: Global CCS Institute analysis of Quarterly Census of Employment and Wages (US) and Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings (UK) [36][37]
4 Differences in the cost of living in which the industries are based could also influence the results, although this is partly controlled for in the US analysis by comparing wages to 
the state average rather than national average.
CEMENT
USA (ALL EMPLOYEES)
UK (FULL-TIME EMPLOYEES)
FOSSIL FUEL ELEC GENERATION
WAGE PREMIUM (%)
WAGE PREMIUM (%)
Wages lower than US State average
Wages higher than US State average
FERTILISER
IRON AND STEEL
REFINERIES
CEMENT
ELEC GENERATION
Wages lower than UK average
Wages higher than UK average
-75
-50
25
50
-25
75
100
200
0
-100
-50
50
100
150
200
0
FERTILISER
IRON AND STEEL
REFINERIES
THE VALUE OF CCS
15
In addition to supporting employment directly at the 
CCS facility and industrial plant where it is located, 
the deployment of CCS can support jobs indirectly 
in the supply chain. These multiplier effects can be 
large. For example, in the UK, the refinery, cement, 
petrochemicals, iron and steel industries all rank within 
the top 30 per cent of industries by employment 
multipliers [38]. The indirect jobs supported in the 
supply chain are more geographically dispersed and 
therefore less likely to be additional than the direct 
employment effects. Nevertheless, they provide a 
useful indication of the overall contribution of CCS to 
local and regional employment. 
Several studies have estimated employment multipliers 
for CCS-related industries to calculate the total 
employment effects of large-scale CCS deployment. 
For example, SINTEF estimate the deployment of 
CCS in Europe could provide 150,000 jobs in 2050, of 
which 60,000 to 70,000 would be indirectly employed 
in supply chains [39]. A recent study for the UK found 
higher multipliers, with the large-scale deployment 
of CCS to capture 75 million tonnes of CO2 per year 
estimated to support 68,000 jobs directly and 158,000 
jobs indirectly in supply chains [40]. Turner et. al 
extend this analysis to job quality, demonstrating the 
deployment of CCS could generate economic value by 
supporting higher than average wages in supply chains 
in Scotland [41]. 
Supporting economic growth 
through new net-zero 
industries
The widespread deployment of CCS will create new 
opportunities in the supply of infrastructure and 
technology, the provision of professional services and 
finance, and the production of low-carbon products. 
The prospect of growth in these markets will stimulate 
innovation as companies compete for market share, 
which in turn generates economic growth. Emerging 
evidence suggests CCS could be a source of high-
value innovation spillovers, and therefore a provider of 
innovation-led growth (Box 2).
There are several examples of industries associated 
with CCS that are anticipated to grow in the future, 
providing new employment opportunities:
• 
The Hydrogen Council estimate the hydrogen 
economy in 2050 could account for 18 per cent of 
final energy demand, with annual sales of US$2.5 
trillion, providing employment for 30 million people 
[42]. In Europe, the market could reach EUR 820 
billion, providing employment for 5.4 million highly 
skilled workers [43]. This market would be served 
by low-carbon hydrogen produced using different 
types of production processes, including CCS.
• 
The 
deployment 
of 
negative 
emissions 
technologies in line with the rates suggested in 
Integrated Assessment Models will offer new 
employment opportunities, particularly in the 
growing of biomass feedstock, and the supply 
chains for waste biomass from agriculture and 
forestry. 
• 
The development of carbon capture and utilisation 
(CCU) technologies could provide sustainable 
employment opportunities, where the climate 
benefits can be demonstrated. Interest in the 
market has grown in recent years, with over $1 
billion of investment in CCU start-ups over the past 
decade [44].
Some studies extend this analysis to focus on the 
export potential of these new industries, which could 
provide an additional source of economic growth. 
Countries that have a comparative advantage today in 
the provision of CCS-related products and services, and 
have a healthy CCS facility pipeline, will be best placed 
to take advantage of this opportunity.
THE VALUE OF CCS
16
The development and deployment of technologies 
generates knowledge and innovation which are 
important drivers of productivity and economic 
growth. The spillovers generated by the dispersion 
and diffusion of knowledge created by deployment 
can be large, with some studies suggesting the 
social returns from research and innovation can be 
more than double the returns to the original investor 
[45]. Given the important role they play in propelling 
economic change, understanding the spillover 
effects of different technologies is increasingly the 
focus of research.
New research by the Grantham Institute attempts 
to provide this broader perspective for the main 
technology sectors, including climate mitigation 
technologies like CCS [46][47]. Using information 
from over one million patent applications around 
the world, they estimate the spillover value for major 
technology sectors for a given country. The metric 
draws on the approach used by Google to rank 
the relevance of webpages, ranking innovations 
based on the number of citations to them in other 
patent applications. When combined with monetary 
estimates per citation, this provides a dollar estimate 
of the value per innovation for each technology.
The results of this analysis suggest CCS is one of the 
higher value, but lower volume technologies when 
it comes to spillovers (Figure 5). For Germany, the 
US and the UK, the value per CCS innovation is 17, 
35 and 50 per cent respectively above the average 
value of innovations in those countries across the 
sectors assessed. This signals that investment in 
CCS could provide above average benefits when 
it comes to innovation, knowledge and associated 
economic growth. The number of innovations related 
to CCS are lower than average, but similar to other 
technologies like geothermal, building efficiency and 
marine energy technology. The largest source of 
innovations are artificial intelligence, biotechnology 
and ICT given their economy-wide applicability.
CCS could, therefore, play a role in supporting 
innovation-led economic growth alongside other 
emerging, high-value technologies.
UNLOCKING CLEAN GROWTH THROUGH INNOVATION
AVERAGE IN EACH COUNTRY
Value of CCS
innovations
relative to
other sectors
+35%
+17%
+50%
Number of CCS 
innovations 
relative to 
other sectors
-50%
-78%
-50%
Figure 5: Number and spillover value of CCS innovations relative to other sectors
BOX 2: 
THE VALUE OF CCS
17
Extending the lifetime of 
infrastructure and deferring 
decommissioning costs
The deployment of CCS will require the construction of 
infrastructure to transport and permanently store CO2. 
This will require large capital investment, particularly for 
projects storing CO2 in offshore storage reservoirs. 
Where oil or gas production fields are at the end 
of their lives, there may be opportunities to re-use 
existing oil and gas infrastructure by repurposing it for 
CO2 transport and storage. This could provide a range 
of benefits, including reducing the cost of building 
transport and storage infrastructure and potentially 
reducing permitting time. An example of where this is 
being put into practice is the Acorn project in Scotland, 
which plans to re-use both onshore and offshore 
pipelines, providing an estimated saving of £548 million 
relative to the cost of building a new pipeline [48].
The re-use of infrastructure could also defer the costs 
and the environmental impact of decommissioning, 
freeing-up resources that can be invested in other 
value generating activities. Over time, the deferral of 
decommissioning costs combined with learning and 
innovation could result in lower decommissioning costs 
overall, assuming other cost drivers remain stable [49].
The costs of decommissioning are projected to reach 
$85 billion globally between 2019 and 2028 (Figure 
6). In the North Sea alone, which accounts for just 
under a half of the total forecast decommissioning 
expenditure, 2,624 wells, 1.2 million tonnes of platform 
topsides and 660,000 tonnes of substructures are 
due to be decommissioned in the next ten years [50]. 
Since decommissioning costs are eligible for tax relief 
in some jurisdictions, the deferral of decommissioning 
costs would benefit taxpayers as well as the operator 
[51].
The largest component of decommissioning costs is 
associated with the decommissioning of wells. In the 
UK, which has been the focus of most decommissioning 
activity in recent years, around a half of the total costs 
of decommissioning are associated with wells [50]. The 
remainder is split between removing platform topsides 
and jacket structures (18 per cent), decommissioning 
subsea infrastructure, including pipelines (9 per cent), 
and the costs of project management and operating 
platforms after production has ceased (17 per cent) 
(Box 3).
While the opportunity to defer decommissioning costs 
is significant, not all oil and gas infrastructure will be 
suitable for repurposing for CO2 transport and storage 
[49]. There are a range of commercial, technical, 
operational and regulatory risks that could discourage 
the re-use of particular aspects of infrastructure. The 
business case for re-using infrastructure ultimately rests 
on whether the cost savings of re-purposing assets 
outweigh the potential risks and costs of remedial work 
associated with using older infrastructure.
The opportunity to re-use infrastructure will ultimately 
vary on a case-by-case basis, with some infrastructure 
asset types being more suitable for re-use than others:
• 
Pipelines provide the most promising prospect 
for re-use and deferring decommissioning costs, 
although they account for a relatively small 
proportion of total decommissioning costs. To 
determine whether a pipeline is suitable for re-
use, a full integrity and lifetime extension study will 
be required. These studies will identify whether 
there are any issues with corrosion or other 
integrity concerns that would make the pipeline 
unsuitable for re-use. In general, pipelines that are 
relatively new, are appropriately located, and are 
of a sufficient size and pressure rating, would be 
suitable for re-use [53].
• 
Oil and gas wells may be suitable for CO2 injection. 
Design standards and operational criteria for oil and 
gas production wells differ to those of CO2 injection 
wells, meaning remedial action will be required to 
modify the well equipment [54]. Operators would 
need to weigh up the additional costs of remedial 
work and any other risks associated with using 
existing wells against the time and potential cost 
savings of drilling a new well. The re-use of wells 
is being considered for the Porthos project in 
Rotterdam [55].
• 
Platforms could technically be used for CO2 
injection, but it may not be economic to do so. The 
more complex process and safety systems required 
for oil and gas production are unnecessary and 
unsuitable for CO2 injection, and would need to 
be removed if the platform were to be re-used. 
These modifications are expensive as they require 
modification work to be undertaken offshore. 
Several reports have suggested that CO2 injection 
operations could be easily housed on smaller, 
unmanned installations [55].
THE VALUE OF CCS
18
There may be other commercial considerations that 
operators will factor into their decisions on whether to 
repurpose infrastructure, and which assets to re-use. 
For example, there may be an opportunity for cost 
savings in the near-term as a result of the coordination 
of decommissioning activity with nearby fields reaching 
the end of their lifetime at similar points in time. 
Changes to long-term decommissioning plans may 
also result in penalties being incurred by the operator, 
dampening the case for re-use. An operator may also 
not want to enter the CO2 transport and storage market 
as a result of the fragmented value chain and different 
risk profile associated with CO2 infrastructure relative to 
hydrocarbons.
In summary, the re-use of infrastructure can provide 
cost savings and defer decommissioning costs. 
This activity is likely to be reserved for specific 
circumstances, mainly with the re-use of pipelines. 
While this accounts for a relatively small proportion of 
the total decommissioning costs, it could still provide 
material cost savings that benefit both operators and, in 
some jurisdictions, taxpayers.
Figure 6: Global forecast decommissioning expenditure from 2019 to 2028 [52]
UK
US
Thailand
Angola
Nigeria
China
Indonesia
Netherlands
Australia
Denmark
Global 
Decommissioning
Expenditure
2019 to 2028:
$85 Billion
Vietnam
Malaysia
Rest of World
Brazil
Norway
THE VALUE OF CCS
19
The UK is forecast to be the largest decommissioning 
market over the next decade, owing to a large 
portion of the North Sea basin, rather than individual 
fields, maturing at similar times. While every 
decommissioning project will be different, evidence 
of the breakdown of decommissioning costs in 
the UK can provide insight into where the greatest 
opportunity to defer decommissioning costs may lie.
Oil and Gas UK compile estimates of the 
breakdown in decommissioning costs in their 
annual 
Decommissioning 
Insight 
report 
[50]. 
The latest report, published in 2019, shows well 
decommissioning accounts for almost half of the 
total cost of decommissioning. The next largest 
component is the removal of platform topsides 
and jackets, followed by operator costs related to 
the project management of the decommissioning 
project. The decommissioning of pipelines and other 
subsea infrastructure make up a relatively small 
proportion of decommissioning costs, at around 9 
per cent.
At 
a 
regional 
level, 
the 
breakdown 
of 
decommissioning costs differs due to the different 
nature of decommissioning projects. For example, the 
proportion of costs attributed to project management 
is much higher in the Central and Northern North 
Sea regions compared to the Southern North Sea, as 
projects tend to be larger and more complex. As a 
result, operator costs in these regions account for 17 
to 20 per cent of the total cost of decommissioning, 
compared to 9 per cent in the Southern North Sea. 
Similarly, there are material differences in the costs 
of removals across regions, partly due to some fields 
already having incurred well decommissioning costs.
However, the overall picture remains the same 
across all regions, with well decommissioning 
costs accounting for the largest proportion of 
decommissioning costs, followed by removals 
of 
topsides 
and 
jacket 
structures, 
and 
the 
decommissioning of subsea infrastructure.
THE BREAKDOWN OF DECOMMISSIONING COSTS BASED 
ON UK DATA
Figure 7: Breakdown of decommissioning costs in the UK
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
80%
90%
100%
• Debris clearance
• Monitoring requirements
SITE REMEDIATION
& MONITORING
2%
PREPARATION, ISOLATION 
& CLEANING
7%
WELL DECOMMISSIONING
45%
OPERATOR COSTS
• Project management services 
throughout preparation of 
decommissioning programme
• Operational expenditure after
cessation of production
17%
• Pipeline decommissioning
• Mattress decommissioning
• Subsea structure decommissioning
SUBSEA INFRASTRUCTURE
9%
• Onshore waste handling
• Deconstruction
• Decontamination
TOPSIDES & SUBSTRUCTURE 
ONSHORE DISPOSAL
2%
REMOVALS
• Removal activities for the topsides
• Removal activities for the substructures
18%
0%
BOX 3: 
THE VALUE OF CCS
20
Facilitating a just transition
CCS has a vital role to play in the just transition to a net-
zero economy, by enabling the growth of low-carbon 
industries and supporting employment in existing 
industries.
The transition to a net-zero carbon economy will 
boost prosperity, but there will be winners and losers. 
For example, the International Labour Organisation 
estimates that action to meet the goals of the Paris 
Agreement will create 24 million jobs but will also lead 
to job losses of around 6 million [56]. Managed well, 
the transition to a net-zero economy will prevent the 
immense human and economic costs of climate change, 
increase growth and jobs, and reduce inequality. Done 
poorly, and it could result not only in stranded assets, 
but also stranded workers and communities in those 
regions most at risk of job losses.
One of the challenges of achieving a just transition is 
the disconnect between the geographic spread of job 
losses and gains, and the timing of these changes. 
Jobs created in low-carbon industries may not occur 
at the same time as job losses in emission-intensive 
industries. This will reduce the long-term employment 
prospects of workers in declining industries over time.
One of the advantages of CCS in this context is that 
it provides employment opportunities at the time 
and place where they are most likely to be needed 
to support the just transition to a net-zero economy. 
CCS enables existing industries to continue to make 
a sustained contribution to local economies while 
transitioning to a net-zero economy. Inefficient and 
uncompetitive industrial plants will still close, but 
supporting the longevity of the most innovative firms 
will help achieve a fair transition.
No single organisation can deliver the just transition 
alone. Governments have a leading role to play, by 
linking climate, macroeconomic, industrial, labour 
and regional policies under a whole-government 
approach. Governments can also act as a central 
point for convening industry and community groups to 
identify the best options for managing the transition for 
each region. There are several different examples of 
government-led initiatives underway to support a just 
transition:
• 
Earlier this year, the EU launched the Just Transition 
Mechanism to ensure the transition towards a 
climate-neutral economy happens in a fair way. 
The mechanism provides targeted support to the 
regions most affected by the transition and aims 
to mobilise at least EUR 100 billion over the period 
2021-27 [57]. 
• 
In Canada, the government launched a Task Force 
on the Just Transition for Canadian Coal Power 
Workers and Communities, formed of experts 
from unions, environmental groups, industry and 
the community. The Task Force consulted with 
Canadian coal communities and has provided 
recommendations to government on managing the 
just phase out of coal in those communities [58].
• 
In Scotland, the Scottish Government established 
the Just Transition Commission to advise on its 
transition to a net-zero economy by 2045. Within 
the next year, the Commission is required to report 
to Scottish Ministers, providing practical, realistic 
and affordable recommendations for action [59].
• 
In Australia, the Latrobe Valley Worker Transfer 
Scheme was agreed in 2018, involving the state 
government, unions and businesses to manage 
the closure of several coal-fired power plants in 
the region. The scheme helps workers at coal-fired 
power plants find work in other organisations in the 
area [60].  
Most effort to date related to the just transition has 
focussed on managing the near-term challenges 
associated with the phase-out of coal. In the future, 
the commissions, task forces and funding mechanisms 
established to manage the just transition will need 
to expand their focus to consider a broader range 
of sectors, which some are already doing. These 
sectors will include natural gas production, iron and 
steel, cement, fertiliser and petrochemicals. CCS 
must be considered within these initiatives, given the 
advantages it provides by supporting communities that 
are highly dependent on emission-intensive industries.
THE VALUE OF CCS
21
4.0 CONCLUSION 
The deployment of CCS is essential to meeting climate 
targets at the lowest possible cost. However, as 
demonstrated in this report, the benefits of CCS go far 
beyond just reducing emissions. CCS can provide clean 
growth opportunities, create and retain jobs, and help 
ensure a just and sustainable transition for communities.
For policymakers, the report highlights the need to take 
into account the broader benefits of CCS to ensure its 
important role is appropriately reflected in country-level 
strategies to meet the goals of the Paris Agreement. 
This will require a mix of quantitative and qualitative 
metrics, rather than focussing on a single metric. 
The report also identifies several areas where analysis 
could be built upon to improve the evidence base 
on the value of CCS. For example, extending the 
analysis completed for the IPCC Fifth Assessment 
Report to include 1.5°C scenarios could provide further 
compelling evidence of the criticality of CCS in meeting 
long-term climate targets at the lowest possible cost. 
In addition, a greater focus on the additionality of jobs 
created and supported by investment in CCS, drawing 
on the advantages of CCS identified in this report, could 
enhance its value in the context of a just transition.
THE BENEFITS OF CCS GO FAR 
BEYOND JUST REDUCING EMISSIONS. 
CCS CAN PROVIDE CLEAN GROWTH 
OPPORTUNITIES, CREATE AND RETAIN 
JOBS, AND HELP ENSURE A JUST 
AND SUSTAINABLE TRANSITION FOR 
COMMUNITIES.
THE VALUE OF CCS
22
5.0 REFERENCES
1. 
Zero Emissions Platform, “Role of CCUS in a below 2 degrees 
scenario,” 2018.
2. 
CCUS Cost Challenge Taskforce, “CCUS Cost Challenge Taskforce 
Report,” 2018.
3. 
National Petroleum Council, “Meeting the Dual Challenge - A 
Roadmap to At-Scale Deployment of Carbon Capture, Use, and 
Storage Volume I Report Summary,” 2019.
4. 
IEAGHG, “CCS in Energy and Climate Scenarios,” no. 2019/05, 2019.
5. 
IEA, “World Energy Outlook 2019,” 2019.
6. 
Global CCS Institute, “Global Status of CCS 2019, Targeting Climate 
Change,” 2019.
7. 
and R. Z. Daniel Huppmann, Elmar Kriegler, Volker Krey, Keywan 
Riahi, Joeri Rogelj, Katherine Calvin, Florian Humpenoeder, 
Alexander Popp, Steven K. Rose, John Weyant, Nico Bauer, 
Christoph Bertram, Valentina Bosetti, Jonathan Doelman, Laurent 
Drouet, Johannes Emme, “IAMC 1.5°C Scenario Explorer and Data 
hosted by IIASA,” Integr. Assess. Model. Consort. Int. Inst. Appl. Syst. 
Anal., no. Release 2.0, 2019.
8. 
Global CCS Institute, “Global costs of carbon capture and storage - 
2017 Update,” 2017.
9. 
IPCC, “Climate Change 2014: Synthesis Report. Contribution of 
Working Groups I, II and III to the Fifth Assessment Report of the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change,” 2014.
10. 
Committee on Climate Change, “Net Zero, The UK’s contribution to 
stopping global warming,” 2019.
11. 
IEA, “Transforming Industry through CCUS,” 2019.
12. 
Energy Transitions Commission, “Mission Possible: Reaching net 
zero carbon emissions from harder-to-abate sectors by mid-century,” 
2018.
13. 
International Energy Agency, “The Future of Hydrogen - Seizing 
today’s opportunities,” 2019.
14. 
Commonwealth of Australia, “Hydrogen for Australia’s future,” 2018.
15. 
Global CCS Institute, “CO2RE database,” 2020. [Online]. Available: 
https://www.globalccsinstitute.com/resources/CO2re/.
16. 
S. Bruce et al., “National Hydrogen Roadmap,” 2018.
17. 
International Energy Agency, “World Energy Outlook 2018,” 2018.
18. 
M. Grimston, “The full costs of generating electricity,” Proc. Inst. 
Mech. Eng. Part A J. Power Energy, vol. 228, no. 3, pp. 357–367, 
2014, doi: 10.1177/0957650913517389.
19. 
C. F. Heuberger, I. Staffell, N. Shah, and N. Mac Dowell, “Quantifying 
the value of CCS for the future electricity system,” Energy Environ. 
Sci., vol. 9, no. 8, pp. 2497–2510, 2016, doi: 10.1039/c6ee01120a.
20. 
C. F. Heuberger, I. Staffell, N. Shah, and N. Mac Dowell, “A 
systems approach to quantifying the value of power generation 
and energy storage technologies in future electricity networks,” 
Comput. Chem. Eng., vol. 107, pp. 247–256, 2017, doi: 10.1016/j.
compchemeng.2017.05.012.
21. 
I. Boston, A., Bongers, G., Byrom, S. and Staffell, “Managing 
Flexibility Whilst Decarbonising Electricity - the Australian NEM is 
changing,” 2017.
22. IEAGHG, “Valuing Flexibility in CCS Power Plants, 2017/09, 
December, 2017,” no. December, 2017.
23. 
S. Fuss and T. K. William F Lamb1, Max W Callaghan1, 2, Jérôme 
Hilaire1, 5, Felix Creutzig1, 3, Thorben Amann4, Tim Beringer1, 
Wagner de Oliveira Garcia4, Jens Hartmann4, “Negative 
emissions—Part 2: Costs, potentials and side effects,” Environ. Res. 
Lett., vol. 13, no. 6, 2018.
24. 
IPCC, “Summary for Policymakers. In: Global Warming of 1.5°C. 
An IPCC Special Report on the impacts of global warming of 1.5°C 
above pre-industrial levels and related global greenhouse gas 
emission pathways, in the context of strengthening the global 
response to,” 2018.
25. SaskPower, “SaskPower CCS.” [Online]. Available: https://unfccc.int/
sites/default/files/01_saskatchewan_environment_micheal_monea.
pdf.
26. ACTL, “Jobs and economic impact.” [Online]. Available: https://actl.
ca/benefits/economic-impact/.
27. 
K. Turner, J. Race, A. Oluwafisayo, and R. Low, “Making the 
macroeconomic case for near term action on CCS in the UK? The 
current state of economy-wide modelling evidence,” 2018.
28. 
Oxford Economics, “The Role of Steel Manufacturing in the Global 
Economy: A Report for the World Steel Association,” 2019.
29. 
Oxford Economics, “The Global Chemical Industry: Catalyzing 
Growth and Addresing Our World’s Sustainability Challenges,” 2019.
30. 
Oxford Economics, “The economic contribution of the UK 
downstream oil sector,” 2019.
31. 
C. F. Association, “The Fuels Industry.” [Online]. Available: https://
www.canadianfuels.ca/The-Fuels-Industry/. [Accessed: 02-May-
2020].
32. 
IEAGHG, “Techno-Economic Evaluation of HYCO Plant Integrated to 
Ammonia / Urea or Methanol Production with CCS,” 2017.
33. 
IEAGHG, “Techno-economic evaluation of retrofitting CCS in a 
market pulp mill and integrated pulp and board mill,” 2016.
34. 
IEAGHG, “Iron and steel CCS study (Techno-economics Integrated 
Steel Mill),” 2013.
35. 
CIPD, “Understanding and Measuring Job Quality - Research Report 
- Part 1 - Thematic Literature Review,” 2017.
36. 
US Bureau of Labour Statistics, “Quarterly Census of Employment 
and Wages (Q2 2019),” 2019.
37. 
ONS, “UK Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings (2019 provisional),” 
2019.
38. 
Office for National Statistics, “FTE multipliers and effects, 
reference year 2015, bespoke industry groups,” 2019. [Online]. 
Available: https://www.ons.gov.uk/economy/nationalaccounts/
supplyandusetables/.
39. 
S. Ø. Størset, G. Tangen, O. Wolfgang, and G. Sand, “Industrial 
opportunities and employment prospects in large-scale CO2 
management in Norway,” SINTEF Energi AS, 2018.
40. 
Summit Power, “Clean Air, Clean Industry, Clean Growth: How 
Carbon Capture Will Boost the UK Economy,” 2017.
41. 
K. Turner, O. Alabi, J. Race, and A. Katris, “Industrial Decarbonisation, 
Regional Industrial Activity and the Quality of Employment : a New 
Wage Premium Multiplier Approach for Value Chain Analysis,” 2020.
42. 
Hydrogen Council, “Hydrogen: Scaling up, A sustainable pathway 
for the global energy transition,” 2017.
43. 
Hydrogen Europe, “Hydrogen Roadmap Europe,” 2019.
44. 
Cleantech Group in IEA (2019), “i3 Database,” 2018.
45. 
C. Hepburn, J. Pless, and D. Popp, “Encouraging innovation that 
protects environmental systems: five policy proposals,” Rev. Environ. 
Econ. Policy, vol. 12, no. 1, p. pp.154-169, 2018.
46. 
Centre for Climate Change Economics and Policy, “Sustainable 
growth in the UK: Seizing opportunities from technological change 
and the transition to a low-carbon economy,” 2018.
47. 
A. Dechezlepretre, R. Martin, and M. Mohnen, “Knowledge spillovers 
from clean and dirty technologies,” 2017.
48. 
Bellona Pale Blue Dot and SCCS, “Acorn ERA-NET ACT, 
Infrastructure Reuse and Decommissioning”.
49. 
Pale Blue Dot and Axis Well Technology, “Progressing Development 
of the UK’s Strategic Carbon Dioxide Storage Resources, A 
Summary of Results from the Strategic UK CO2 Storage Appraisal 
Project,” 2016.
50. 
Oil and Gas UK, “Decommissioning Insight 2019,” 2019.
51. 
National Audit Office, “Oil and Gas in the UK - Offshore 
Decommissioning,” 2019.
52. Wood Mackenzie for Oil and Gas UK, “Decommissioing Insight 
2019,” 2019.
53. 
Bellona and Pale Blue Dot, “Acorn ERA-NET ACT, Factsheet 3: 
Pipeline Re-Use”.
54. 
Bellona and Pale Blue Dot, “Acorn ERA-NET ACT, Factsheet 2: Well 
Re-Use”.
55. Port of Rotterdam, “Rotterdam CCUS Project Porthos - Carbon 
Sequestration Leadership Forum,” 2019.
56. International Labour Organisation, “World Employment and Social 
Outlook 2018: Greening with jobs,” 2018.
57. 
European Commission, “Financing the green transition: The 
European Green Deal Investment Plan and Just Transition 
Mechanism - Regional Policy - European Commission,” 2020. 
[Online]. Available: https://ec.europa.eu/regional_policy/en/
newsroom/news/2020/01/14-01-2020-financing-the-green-transition-
the-european-green-deal-investment-plan-and-just-transition-
mechanism. [Accessed: 02-May-2020].
58. 
Government of Canada, “Task Force: Just Transition for Canadian 
Coal Power Workers and Communities - Canada.ca,” 2019. [Online]. 
Available: https://www.canada.ca/en/environment-climate-change/
services/climate-change/task-force-just-transition.html. [Accessed: 
02-May-2020].
59. 
Scottish Government, “Just Transition Commission - gov.scot.” 
[Online]. Available: https://www.gov.scot/groups/just-transition-
commission/. [Accessed: 02-May-2020].
60. Latrobe Valley Authority, “Worker Transfer Scheme gives Hazelwood 
workers a new start.” [Online]. Available: https://lva.vic.gov.au/
news/worker-transfer-scheme-gives-hazelwood-workers-new-start. 
[Accessed: 02-May-2020].
THE VALUE OF CCS
23
AMERICAS 
Washington DC, United States
americasoffice@globalccsinstitute.com
AUSTRALIA
Melbourne, Australia
info@globalccsinstitute.com
CHINA
Beijing, China 
chinaoffice@globalccsinstitute.com
EUROPE & MIDDLE EAST
Brussels, Belgium
europeoffice@globalccsinstitute.com
UNITED KINGDOM 
London, United Kingdom
ukoffice@globalccsinstitute.com
JAPAN
Tokyo, Japan
japanoffice@globalccsinstitute.com 
 
GET IN TOUCH
To find out more about the Global CCS Institute including Membership and our Consultancy services, visit 
globalccsinstitute.com or contact us. 
Copyright © 2020 Global CCS Institute
The Global CCS Institute and the author believe that this document represents a fair representation of the current state of law in the key areas and 
jurisdictions considered, however its content should not be construed as, or substituted for, professional legal advice. The Global CCS Institute has tried 
to make information in this publication as accurate as possible. However, it does not guarantee that the information in this publication is totally reliable, 
accurate or complete. Therefore, the information in this publication should not be relied upon when making investment or commercial decisions,or 
provided to any third party without the written permission of the Global CCS Institute. The Global CCS Institute has no responsibility for the persistence or 
accuracy of URLs to any external or third-party internet websites referred to in this publication and does not guarantee that any content on such websites 
is, or will remain, accurate or appropriate. To the maximum extent permitted, the Global CCS Institute, its employees and advisers accept no liability 
(including for negligence) for any use or reliance on the information in this publication, including any commercial or investment decisions made on the 
basis of information provided in this publication.
