Opportunity Action Plan:  
Enabling a high skill, zero-carbon future
Drax & Social Mobility Pledge 
2
Foreword
Foreword
Britain’s future green economy cannot be fully 
fired up if talent from all backgrounds does not 
have fair access to opportunities. 
Social mobility is a catalyst of productivity, 
growth and opportunity, but it is currently 
being stifled and neglected. This means that 
background or upbringing should not be a 
predictor of where someone ends up in life. 
Talent and potential should be the overriding 
drivers of success.
The government has stated “levelling up” Britain 
as a key priority - and this will mean working hard 
to remove the many inequalities of opportunity 
that exist in this country. Businesses will play a 
crucial role in this effort. 
Britain’s emerging green economy and 
businesses like Drax will be essential in closing 
the social and economic gaps across the country 
- turning the Government’s vision into reality. 
Britain’s social mobility dearth has long been on 
Westminster’s radar. In 2017 as Secretary of State 
for Education I published a plan for improving 
social mobility through education. 
The report, ‘Unlocking Talent, Fulfilling Potential’, 
set out the urgent need for the “levelling up of 
opportunity” in Britain.
Some good progress has been made since, 
including in the rise of social mobility awareness 
among schools, colleges, universities and 
businesses, and the increased use of context in 
hiring decisions.    
Rt Hon Justine Greening 
However, with the opportunity gap widening 
following the COVID-19 pandemic, it is even 
more important to focus efforts on social 
mobility cold spots and opportunity gaps. 
We know that in times of economic crisis, it is 
often the geographic areas that already faced 
significant challenges that find a deepened 
and more pronounced unfairness after. 
I saw this in my own life when my father, who 
worked in the steel industry, lost his job in the 
1980s and the only retraining available was 
that of a welder, another field that was seeing 
massive layoffs. 
It was an attempt at a quick solution, to get 
people into jobs today, rather than prepare 
them for the jobs of tomorrow. And areas 
like Rotherham, where I grew up, suffered for 
years after as the tide went out on opportunity 
for a generation now just looking at how to 
rebuild.
Like the steel industry, coal-fired power 
stations across the north have gradually 
closed over recent decades, rightly replaced 
by renewable energy, but often with little 
thought about the workforce. Drax took 
the bold decision to convert to biomass, 
protecting the vital role it plays in providing 
opportunities for local people. 
And it continues to innovate and expand as is 
now a company at the forefront of the charge 
towards net zero with all the new jobs and 
opportunities that will create. 
Founder of the Social Mobility Pledge & Former Education Secretary
00
3
Britain’s emerging 
green economy and 
businesses like Drax 
will be essential in 
closing the social and 
economic gaps across 
the country
Essential to this will be building a skills pipeline 
for the next generation as well as a skills  
change for those already living locally, enabling 
Drax to both steer themselves through to  
deliver a carbon negative future and support its 
local communities.  
The coronavirus crisis must be a catalyst for 
change in these areas. Efforts from companies 
like Drax to offer training and opportunity in 
these communities is crucial to their growth and 
future. It is vital that these new opportunities 
are jobs for the future in new technology and 
growing industries.
And to affect real change we must engage with 
employers on social mobility approaches that 
genuinely work. In sharing such insights from 
Drax we aim to help enable this and maximise 
the impact of the Social Mobility Pledge. 
Foreword
4
Foreword
5
Foreword
Will Gardiner
Chief Executive, Drax Group
The COVID-19 crisis has had a profound 
effect on all of us. The effects are being felt 
by everyone and its impact on the economy 
will be with us for decades to come.
I am proud of the role Drax has played 
through this pandemic. We have continued 
to provide reliable electricity supplies for 
millions of homes and businesses across the 
country while standing shoulder to shoulder 
with our local communities during this most 
difficult of times. Our laptops for learners 
scheme has delivered 853 laptops to over 50 
schools, providing a connection to teachers, 
friends and the internet while home-learning. 
Our energy supply and services business has 
provided free gas and electricity to more than 
170 independent care homes local to our UK 
operations, and we have donated £150,000 
to the Money Advice Trust’s Business Debtline 
to support struggling businesses. 
I am determined that as the pandemic 
endures, we at Drax continue to do 
everything we can to support those in the 
communities around our sites. I’m pleased 
to be partnering with the Social Mobility 
Pledge to better understand what more we 
can be doing in the long term to improve 
the opportunities we provide. While the 
challenges of COVID-19 are great, so are the 
opportunities for us to build back better.
In March, Drax expects to stop using 
coal, ending almost 50 years of coal-fired 
electricity generation at the UK’s largest 
power station in North Yorkshire, marking a 
major milestone in the company’s ambitions 
to be carbon negative by 2030. As well as the 
benefits for the environment, it will also have 
an impact on the type of jobs we will provide 
in the future. New skills are required as we 
look to develop new technologies including 
bioenergy with carbon capture and storage 
(BECCS). A recent report we commissioned 
from Vivid Economics found that around 
50,000 jobs could be created and supported 
in the 2020s in the Humber if BECCS at 
Drax, alongside other carbon capture and 
hydrogen technologies are deployed in 
the region, to decarbonise the UK’s most 
carbon-intensive industrial cluster. These 
new green technologies could transform the 
region’s fortunes and protect around 55,000 
existing jobs in the face of the economic 
uncertainty caused by the COVID crisis. It 
is therefore vital we ensure local people are 
equipped with the skills to take advantage 
of these new opportunities. Which is why 
we recently launched a new partnership 
with Selby College to enable the college to 
deliver community education programmes 
and support retraining, ensuring students 
are developing the skills needed in clean 
technologies.
But this is just the start and we must do more: 
Drax is working with the Government, trades 
unions and other industrial businesses in the 
North so that people in the region can have 
the skills and expertise required in the next 
30 years as the UK moves towards a net zero 
carbon economy. 
We must also go further in terms of boosting 
social mobility – an issue that is hugely 
important to me. While I’m proud we have 
senior leaders within Drax who have worked 
their way up from starting as apprentices, 
we need to see far more career journeys like 
this. Our business must be set up in such a 
way that talent is rewarded, regardless of 
background, and that a future CEO could 
begin their career as an apprentice. 
This report is a great starting point which 
I look forward to building upon to ensure 
Drax is at the heart of supporting our local 
communities in a green recovery from 
COVID-19.
6
Executive Summary
Background
 
 Drax Group plc (Drax) partnered with the Social 
Mobility Pledge to identify best practice and create 
an Opportunity Action Plan to highlight its role as 
a responsible business contributing to the levelling 
up agenda
 The Social Mobility Pledge identified strong 
examples of best practice with Drax’s work to 
date, including a strategic approach to school 
engagement, targeted programmes to reduce the 
skills gap through boosting STEM engagement, 
and its support for local communities through the 
COVID-19 pandemic
 Drax has shown leadership as a renewable 
energy company, having announced its ambition 
to become the world’s first carbon negative 
company by 2030 in November 2019
 Using Bioenergy Carbon Capture and Storage 
(BECCS) across Drax’s four biomass units will 
deliver Drax carbon negative ambition and would 
accelerate the UK’s efforts to reach net zero by 
permanently removing 16 million tonnes of CO2 
from the atmosphere each year
 BECCS technology will have a positive social 
impact too. As many as 49,700 direct, indirect 
and induced jobs will be created as a result of 
deploying CCS and hydrogen technologies in the 
Humber region. Working in partnership with the 
UK Government, these new jobs could begin to 
be realised in as little as four years’ time (2024), 
peaking at 49,700 jobs in 2027
 Drax is ensuring it takes its communities with 
it on the journey to a future with renewable energy
Ambitions
As part of its commitment to making a positive 
social impact, Drax has unveiled its new ambition 
for Drax to improve skills, education, employability 
and opportunity for one million people by 2025.
This will be delivered in the following ways:
 Drax will deliver skills sessions via online 
media such as Oak Academy, Learn Live and 
webinars, and resume face-to-face sessions when 
practicable
 It will continue its long standing commitment  
to support education through site tours and  
virtual tours, educational outreach programmes, 
Stone Foundation, Laptops for Learners, and 
school interactions
 It will support employability by providing 
targeted support to enable individuals to  
develop their career through Apprenticeships, 
Graduate schemes, Internships, and Drax 
supported college partnerships
 It will improve opportunity in targeted schools 
with high proportions of free school meals, where 
they will increase positive interactions with a  
careers or educational focus by providing careers 
events and support, science fairs, work experience, 
CV support and women focussed events to 
promote gender balance in the energy industry
Executive 
Summary
01
Executive Summary
7
8
Introduction
According to the OECD, half of children with 
parents in managerial roles will become managers 
themselves, whereas less than a quarter of 
children with manual worker parents will do so, 
with a third going on to become manual workers 
themselves. 
Further research shows that children who are 
behind in language development at age five are six 
times less likely to reach the expected standard in 
English by the time they are eleven years old, and 
eleven times less likely to achieve the expected 
level in maths.
But a wider challenge exists in many areas of the 
UK, where the opportunities that enable social 
mobility simply do not exist. This challenge is likely 
to be exacerbated by the Covid-19 pandemic with 
unemployment rates expected to reach 9%, which 
is worse than the 2008 recession.  
Around a third of employers surveyed have 
indicated that they will hire fewer apprentices 
this year or none at all as a result of the crisis. 
Educational attainment gaps are expected to 
significantly widen due to an increased amount 
of time out of school. While the Chancellor has 
taken some steps to address this such as the kick 
starter scheme, it remains to be seen if they will be 
sufficient. 
Across the UK, the uneven spread of opportunities 
does not match the even spread of talent. Most 
sectors have their best opportunities in London, 
and as a result, in many communities elsewhere, 
there are far fewer opportunities for social 
mobility. This too is likely to be made worse by 
the coronavirus crisis, with our research indicating 
the most affected areas will see economic growth 
reduced by 50% in the North West and Midlands 
Drax is enabling a zero carbon, lower cost energy 
future, and has set a world leading ambition 
to become carbon negative by the end of this 
decade in 2030.
At its heart, this means taking more carbon 
emissions out of the atmosphere than the 
company emits – creating a negative carbon 
footprint. For an energy company this is a bold 
move - it would be achieved two whole decades 
ahead of the UK’s 2050 net zero commitment. 
Drax has demonstrated it understands that to 
transform energy successfully, and to have real 
purpose, it needs to take its people, and its local 
communities with the company on this journey. 
This energy transformation comes at a time 
when the world faces unprecedented challenges 
as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. As a 
consequence, we face the unfortunate reality 
that many businesses will have to take tough 
short-term measures to preserve their viability, 
and this is resulting in job losses across the 
country. 
Social mobility is loosely defined as the ability of an individual 
to progress further in life than their parents, whether in terms of 
careers, income-brackets, or access to opportunity. 
Introduction
2.1 The Problem of Low Social Mobility 
2.2 Introduction to Drax’s  
Opportunity Action Plan
compared to the national average of 35% - further 
widening the opportunity gap already existing 
across the UK. 
Whether from government, inward investors, 
higher education or employers, more action is 
urgently needed to alter this picture – for the 
benefit of both the UK economy and people from 
disadvantaged backgrounds whose talent and 
potential must not go to waste. 
02
9
Introduction
The public health efforts to control the virus have 
led to significant economic consequences. With 
lockdowns and restrictions in place for months, 
energy demand significantly reduced, while many 
other sectors face equally pressing demand issues. 
For many businesses in the economy, this tough 
situation has already resulted in difficult decisions. 
While those tough decisions regarding jobs 
remain for many companies, it has never been 
more important that businesses across the United 
Kingdom - and the world - play a leading role in 
helping society and our economy recover. That 
businesses consider this crisis as an opportunity 
to reimagine the economy; that companies like 
Drax proceed in powering a green recovery while 
preparing the upcoming generation with the skills 
needed for the future.
As we continue through this crisis and begin 
to enter the recovery process, Drax is setting 
out its plans, not only to transform energy, but 
to transform opportunity by empowering local 
communities, building on the best practice it has 
already demonstrated. 
Every period of change and crisis presents an 
opportunity to reassess how things were before, 
and how they can be in the future. It’s important 
that beyond the recovery, we emerge out of this 
crisis with a fairer economy and more just society. 
Drax is determined to bridge the opportunity gap 
for those from disadvantaged backgrounds and 
certain parts of the country, ensuring those people 
have fairer access to opportunities.
At the heart of this, Drax’s ambition is to improve 
skills, education, employability and opportunity for 
one million people by 2025.
The Social Mobility Pledge has partnered with Drax 
to develop this Opportunity Action Plan to ensure 
Drax can use its scale and resources throughout 
communities to build on its existing progress in 
boosting opportunities for young people across 
the country, and those affected most by the direct 
public health and socioeconomic consequences of 
the COVID-19 pandemic. 
The Opportunity Action Plan will review Drax’s 
current best practice and the progress that has 
already been made in helping boost opportunities 
in local communities, as well as tackling the skills 
gap - a societal issue which means more young 
people are needlessly missing out on opportunities. 
By tackling the skills gap, and equipping young 
people and adults for the future zero carbon 
economy, Drax is helping ‘level up’ opportunity and 
social mobility across the UK in a way that aligns 
with its purpose as an energy company. 
The Opportunity Action Plan will consider 
recommendations from the Social Mobility Pledge 
towards how Drax can move forward and make the 
most significant impact in a way that fits with how 
the business operates every day. After all, a business 
with a purpose-led plan is most authentic when it 
makes a positive impact in its everyday activities. 
¹https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/-/media/boe/files/monetary-policy-report/2020/may/monetary-policy-report-may-2020
²https://www.suttontrust.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/05/Covid-19-Impacts-Apprenticeships.pdf
³https://www.suttontrust.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/04/COVID-19-Impact-Brief-School-Shutdown.pdf
10
Best Practice: 
Helping tackle the UK’s Skills Gap
Drax has set out to improve outcomes for people 
of all ages, in local communities in a way that 
aligns with its purpose. 
For Drax as an energy company with a carbon 
negative ambition, this means looking to tackle 
the UK’s Skills Gap, by promoting STEM (Science 
Technology Engineering and Maths) subjects and 
career options, in a way that can also deliver on 
the need for a skilled workforce for the future of 
green energy. 
This need for skills occurs in the backdrop of a 
significant skills shortage, or ‘Skills Gap,’ in the 
United Kingdom. It is estimated that there is 
currently a shortfall of 173,000 workers within 
STEM occupations, costing an estimated £1.5 
billion to UK businesses each year. 
To put this into context, the UK will need to 
increase the number of STEM graduates by 50% 
to meet future requirements.  Only 24% of 
engineers and 15% of scientists come from 
disadvantaged backgrounds.  There is a huge 
pool of talent that could be developed in  
order to meet the skills demand.  Drax’s 
solution to this is to support social mobility 
initiatives to ensure it has a workforce for  
the future. 
This is why Drax Group is determined to take 
its local communities with it on its journey 
towards being a carbon negative energy 
company, helping to inspire ambition in young 
people and develop the skills for fulfilling 
careers as a part of the green recovery.
This all begins with addressing current barriers 
to entry which contribute to the national 
skills shortage, and addressing them in local 
communities- something that Drax has a track 
record of delivering on. 
03
Best Practice
11
Best Practice
Drax has also set out to address wider and 
complex interrelated social problems in local 
communities and helping those who are furthest 
away from opportunity. For example, Drax 
has targeted schools with the highest relative 
numbers of students in receipt of free school 
meals, such as Ipswich Academy with a 24% rate 
of free school meals and a Selby primary school 
with a rate of 29%. 
Drax has decided to focus on five priorities: 
 Investment to support local intervention; 
 Establish locally-led clusters for school 
improvement with businesses to mentor and 
offer bespoke careers guidance and workplace-
based learning; 
 Support Opportunity Areas close to Drax 
locations, areas identified by the Government 
to raise teaching leadership capacity, education 
standards and broaden the horizons of young 
people struggling with social mobility;
 Address the growing gap between 
disadvantaged and hard to reach areas ensuring 
pipeline of diverse inclusive talent; 
 Establish leading degrees and higher-level 
apprenticeships and progress vocational 
technical training and the North as the world’s 
leading centre. 
Drax has outlined three levels of engagement, 
which includes: 
1. improve opportunities; 
2. inspire personal involvement; 
3. promote awareness.
Drax has demonstrated best practice through 
creating a roadmap into STEM careers. Its 
comprehensive approach encompasses 
chronological methods, beginning with early 
intervention and contact points promoting 
awareness and sparking interest in STEM 
subjects (and careers) in schools; engaging the 
wider community in promoting the importance 
of renewable energy; creating access points 
within the company for work placements; and 
then creating job opportunities for the local 
community, through apprenticeships, graduate 
placements and wider roles and careers. 
Drax has also sought to close the opportunity 
gaps in local communities where groups 
are the furthest away from privilege, and 
particularly demonstrated this in the response 
to COVID-19, as it addressed the risks to 
educational attainment for children that lacked 
the ability to access online learning resources 
at home. 
⁴https://www.stem.org.uk/news-and-views/news/skills-shortage-costing-stem-sector-15bn  ⁵https://www.engineeringuk.com/
media/1762/social-mobility-in-engineering.pdf  ⁶https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/
attachment_data/file/596945/The_class_pay_gap_and_intergenerational_worklessness.pdf
12
3.1 Promoting STEM education and 
careers
As part of Drax’s transformation towards becoming 
carbon negative, it recognises that new skills will be 
required. However, this is in the context of a relative 
shortage of children studying STEM subjects, a 
problem that is exacerbated by those children often 
being from low income backgrounds. 
Drax has set out a comprehensive programme  
of community engagement with the aim of  
tackling this.
At the centre of this plan is a locally-led school 
cluster activity. Drax has developed an engagement 
platform alongside a Selby cluster plan - which 
is linked to the Gatsby benchmarks 1 to 8 - and 
ensures its focus and resources are targeted to the 
areas where it can have the most significant impact 
and outcomes. 
Drax has developed strategic partnerships with 
local schools in a sophisticated way. Drax began its 
school engagement programme by interviewing 
schools as part of the partnership selection process, 
identifying which needed the most help, with the 
widest gaps, and assessing where Drax could have 
the largest impact. 
Whilst Drax engages with all local schools, its 
strategic partnerships with the likes of Selby 
College and Selby High School were selected to 
ensure engagement wasn’t superficial, and that 
the company could focus on outcomes, rather 
than having a tick-box approach.
Following the selection process, Drax established 
partnerships with them, supported by Drax’s active 
partnerships with The British Science Association, 
Selby College, Engineering UK and Business in the 
Community and Teach First. 
Students have been invited in with their 
teachers for workshops around CV writing and 
interview techniques and what possibilities are 
available through Drax’s work experience and 
apprenticeship programmes. 
Best Practice
Best Practice
13
14
Best Practice
3.2 Boosting opportunity in  
under-represented groups: 
Inspiring Girls into STEM 
There is also a gender-skills gap. While 
women represent 47% of the workforce in 
the United Kingdom, only 22% of the STEM 
workforce are women. This represents 
900,000 women working in STEM across the 
UK at present. 
To address this challenge, Drax continues its 
work with schools, colleges and universities to 
support and encourage a greater diversity of 
students pursuing STEM (science, technology, 
engineering and mathematics) subjects. 
15
Drax has active partnerships with The  
British Science Association, Selby College, 
Engineering UK and Business in the 
Community as part of our outreach, as well as 
being active members of POWERful Women, 
WISE (Women in Science and Engineering) and 
Women in Technology. 
Its women leaders promote Drax as a leading 
employer at events and with visiting schools, 
as well as encouraging schools to visit its 
sites for activity days, including the Women 
of the Future event. The event was hosted 
at the power station for local schools and 
Selby College, where women from 12 Drax 
departments delivered presentations and 
arranged games.
Best Practice
16
3.3 Taking the wider community on 
the energy transformation journey
Drax has recognised that while schools play a 
large and significant role in developing the skills 
necessary for the future, more needs to be done if 
the skills gap is to be addressed.
The business understands it is important to engage 
with local communities in a way that delivers a 
wider understanding of the importance of the 
clean energy transformation, as well as the skills 
that it will require.
In addition to its schools programme, Drax has 
established four visitor centres at its sites around 
the UK, including the Drax Power Station. 
The levels of engagement and interest in Drax’s 
work is significant. The Drax Power Station in 
Selby normally receives around 12,500 visitors a 
year; and at its Visitor Centre at Cruachan Power 
Station, in Scotland, receives over 50,000 visitors 
a year. 
Best Practice
17
Drax has made educational and academic  
visits free at all of these centres, even offering 
travel to local schools. All of these engagements 
signal increasing success in taking local 
communities with the company on its carbon 
negative journey. 
3.3.1 Powered in Partnership: The 
Big Local Fund
Drax is supporting its local community in 
partnership with the National Lottery’s Big  
Local fund.
The fund was created as a programme to help 
areas with high levels of deprivation and, four 
years ago, money was awarded to the Selby 
South Ward for a 10-year project.
All policies are shaped by residents in the 
community, all decisions are made by a resident-
led board, and Drax works with the residents to 
understand what is important to them. 
But, while involving local people is 
fundamentally important, an initial challenge 
was that there was little history of community 
involvement in that part of Selby, with few 
groups or resident-led initiatives. Due to its 
historical importance to the town, Drax was 
well placed to provide the structure for the 
community to get involved. 
The residents choose the priorities and 
issues that they feel are important and then 
Drax works with them alongside partner 
organisations to create projects, initiatives or 
activities to respond to those priorities. There 
are now 15 local residents on the board.
Research showed that low aspiration was  
a problem in the area and it was felt that  
this should be tackled by working with  
primary schools.
The project is in the third year of a programme 
called Big Aspirations which involves working 
with Year Six, exciting them about the world of 
Best Practice
18
work, raising aspirations and supporting the kind 
of skills that they need in high school. Employers 
organise different workshops, and trips to Drax 
are arranged. The children also do ‘STEAM’ based 
activities with the arts sector, such as a visit to 
Leeds Playhouse and there are career speed dating 
events so that the children get to understand all 
the different careers in the arts sector.
Selby used to receive little in the way of grants 
and funding and only received about 0.5% of 
the region’s arts funding. Working with Drax and 
doing the programmes, however, has boosted 
Arts Council and heritage funding and the area 
received about £200,000 last year. 
Arts and culture is an area Big Local is keen to 
strengthen and to encourage people to visit the 
area, with Drax already a visitor attraction. Big 
Local is looking into the possibility of getting artists 
connected to Drax telling stories.
The board has bought a former shop and is  
now working with artists and architects to make it a 
place where people can meet and engage  
in activities.
3.3.2 Powered by Volunteering 
One of Drax’s greatest assets to make a positive 
impact within local communities, is its people.
Drax colleagues volunteered over 2,000 hours  
and contributed £290,000 in 2019 through 
community partnerships, employee match funding, 
payroll giving, community funds and national 
fundraising days.
3.4 Creating access and pathways 
into STEM careers: Drax’s Work 
Placements 
The process begins with school visits, continues  
with a work experience programme and ultimately 
leads to Drax taking on apprentices.
In 2019, Drax took 21 young people on work 
experience across all departments, including: 
chemistry; IT; finance; maintenance; logistics; 
trading; engineering; and health and safety. The 
department chosen depends on each student’s 
particular interest. 
Placements range in duration from a week up 
to about four weeks as Drax takes students from 
colleges and universities, although it prioritises its 
cluster schools. Two students were successful from 
those cluster schools.
Drax has trained its managers for placements so that 
the students benefit from them with training plans 
and initiatives to ensure both parties get the best 
out of the experience. On placement, the students 
are given practical work such as writing projects or 
developing spreadsheets and analysing data.
Applicants for placements are offered help if  
they need it to travel to the Drax site and Drax  
is flexible on the timing of a placement to suit  
the student.
Best Practice
19
Best Practice
20
3.5 Building Skills for the Future: 
3.5.1 Apprenticeships
Drax’s apprenticeship programme is a key entry 
pathway for school leavers and young adults to 
progress into a career at the company, particularly 
for those who choose not to attend university, 
from local communities. 
While an apprenticeship programme itself 
is usually a fixed-term contract, Drax makes 
an opportunity guarantee for all apprentices, 
and budgets for them to be employed post-
apprenticeship. This ensures a career pathway 
from the entry-point of the apprenticeship, with 
the additional benefit of apprentice retention rates 
being high as a result. 
Drax prioritises the learning and development 
of those on its apprenticeship schemes, and 
also empowers its apprentices to choose 
their pathways, with the choice of transferring 
apprenticeship programmes from one discipline 
to another. This empowerment to choose the 
pathways within the companies also spans 
geographically, as Drax has assets in England 
and Scotland, its apprentices can travel and work 
across the sites. 
Apprentices are also highly effective role models 
in engaging potential future apprentices. To 
this end, many of Drax’s apprentices lead and 
volunteer in the engagement with schools, 
delivering talks about career options and hosting 
apprenticeship open evenings and open days. 
Drax holds an apprentice awards evening in 
the Autumn, hosted by senior executives from 
the business and also a local personality to 
celebrate and recognise the achievements of 
all the apprentices. There are apprentice of the 
year awards for each department and an overall 
apprentice of the year award. 
The business holds a meeting of all the 
apprentices and managers every quarter where 
they discuss how things are going and whether 
there are any problems with the training 
providers. It also holds an apprentice team 
building event once a year which takes two days 
and includes apprentices from all disciplines 
from all the Drax sites. That is arranged for the 
day after the new apprentice intake has joined.
Best Practice
21
3.5.2 Apprenticeship  
Case Studies
Max, who had been interested in engineering 
from an early age, was in year 11 at Selby High 
School when he did his work experience. This 
reinforced his interest in engineering. He then 
went to Selby College to study mechanical 
engineering. He applied from there to be on 
the apprenticeship programme.
Ben is six months into his apprenticeship 
with Access Control and Security. He goes to 
college once every two months for a week. He 
reports that his manager and supervisor try to 
give him work that he can do on his own with 
support when he needs it.
David is an apprentice in Finance. He 
started in 2018 doing an Association of 
Tax Technicians (ATT) qualification on a 
two-year apprenticeship. Drax has several 
finance apprentices, some are brought in 
as apprentices but the firm also uses the 
apprenticeship levy for existing employees. 
David is in the process of moving from an 
ATT to an Association of Chartered Certified 
Accountants (ACCA) qualification which 
is an extra three-year apprenticeship. He 
has worked in several different areas within 
Finance and has picked up knowledge of a lot 
of different areas of tax and his main priority is 
a corporation tax. For ATT he went to college 
for three or four days in one week but for the 
new qualification, it will be one day a week 
every two months.
Ben, a maintenance apprentice, joined in 
September 2017. He was aware of Drax and 
came to an open evening and that enabled 
him to decide what he wanted to do. He was 
at the Apprentice Training Academy near 
Nottingham. He was staying away from home 
for the first time. Drax also takes the parents 
down to Nottingham to see where their 
children are staying. 
Best Practice
22
3.6 Creating a Culture of 
Inclusion and Development 
Social mobility doesn’t stop at the point of 
recruitment, and it is important that people 
from different backgrounds feel like they 
belong within a company, and know they can 
progress, develop and advance in their career 
just as much as their colleagues from more 
privileged backgrounds. For any company 
to work productively and deliver successful 
results, it is crucial to develop a culture of 
inclusion, where colleagues feel valued. 
Drax introduced a Career Development 
Framework to ensure a consistent approach 
to the development and progression pathways 
for entry-level jobs within the company. The 
Framework helps Drax’s colleagues navigate 
their careers, identify skills they need to progress 
to the next level in their careers and identify 
development opportunities. 
It is the Social Mobility Pledge’s view that this is 
an example of best practice that has significant 
potential to empower Drax’s colleagues to take 
greater ownership in the future of their careers in a 
fulfilling and rewarding way; enabling them to see 
a pathway of opportunities ahead of them. 
Creating a culture of inclusion, such as through 
creating clear pathways for progression, is 
particularly important following mergers or 
acquisitions, and ensuring the integration of one 
Best Practice
23
group of employees and cultures integrate 
effectively with the existing employees and 
that progression pathways for all colleagues 
is consistent. During 2019, following the 
acquisition of its Hydro and Gas Generation 
assets, Drax focused on the integration of 
new employees - by centralising finance, HR, 
Procurement, and Internal Communications in 
order to deliver services consistently across the 
entire Group. 
In 2019 Drax launched its Future Creators 
programme, which sought to identify 
future leaders within the company. It works 
to develop and retain 22 ‘high-potential’ 
individuals to grow the company’s leadership 
pipeline. Each individual within the Future 
Creators programme has a dedicated personal 
development plan and an Executive Committee 
mentor, whom they regularly meet with several 
times during the year. This is another example 
of the clear progression pathways set out 
by Drax that empower colleagues to do and 
make more of themselves in their careers, and 
highlights how social mobility continues when 
a colleague is within the workplace, and past 
the point of recruitment. 
An important part of developing an inclusive 
culture means ensuring diverse groups of 
people in a workplace feel like they belong. 
Drax launched a Diversity Steering Group 
which meets monthly to ensure the company 
is on target in delivering its commitment to 
diversity and inclusion. It has two sponsors 
from the Executive Committee, the Group 
Director of Corporate Affairs and the Portfolio 
Generation Director.
As part of its wider commitment to boosting 
diversity and ensuring inclusion, the company 
introduced ‘Keep In Touch Days’ for colleagues 
on parental leave to ensure they don’t feel 
isolated or left behind from progression 
in the workplace; and in 2019 rolled out 
new ‘eLearning training’ to all colleagues at 
managing level to promote understanding 
of unconscious bias in order to root it out of 
working practices. It has also reviewed internal 
data on gender pay, and has committed to 
continuous improvement. 
3.7 Mitigating a widening 
Opportunity Gap during the 
COVID-19 pandemic
Drax has also responded robustly to mitigate the 
widening opportunity gap created by COVID-19. 
As a founding member of the C-19 Business 
Pledge, Drax helped lead the business response 
in local communities to coronavirus. Its CEO 
Will Gardiner’s response of “In crisis, people 
come first” underlines Drax’s commitment to the 
communities it works in. 
Drax recognised the immediate problem 
presented by the lockdown in schools, as 
children at home without access to laptops or 
computers became subject to a ‘digital-divide,’ 
subsequently unable to access the appropriate 
online learning materials provided by teachers, 
and to work at home. 
In response to this problem, Drax purchased  
and donated 853 laptops with pre-paid  
internet access to 50 schools and colleges in  
the communities in which they operate as part  
of its ‘Laptop for Learners’ initiative. Working  
with partner schools, Drax helped to ensure  
that children who do not have a computer at 
home could continue to receive an education 
during lockdown. 
To ensure that they continue to encourage 
student interest in STEM during the lockdown, 
Drax has created virtual tours of its power 
station and developed online STEM learning 
opportunities. This sought to enable the 
successful wider community engagement that 
has taken local communities with the company 
on its journey in transforming energy. 
Drax is also supporting its local communities and 
small businesses. They have provided free energy 
for over 170 small local care homes caring for 
the most vulnerable. 
Drax has donated £150,000 to the Money 
Advice Trust’s Business Debtline, to help SMEs 
experiencing financial difficulties and have 
worked with other business customers affected 
by reduced and deferred payment plans. 
Best Practice
24
Drax recognises its importance to the local 
communities and economies in which it  
operates and the central role it can play in  
reviving both. Drax has established both a 
comprehensive and chronological approach 
to addressing the Skills Gap.
It has identified that one of the most crucial  
contact points to putting young people on the  
path to a career in STEM is early awareness of 
options and opportunities in the field. This is why 
Drax ensures early outreach into schools, which 
has the aim of inspiring ambition and aspiration  
in young people, and helps them recognise a 
career in STEM could be for them. 
Success in this means fewer young people would 
be filtered out of the pathways into STEM careers 
earlier in the journey, simply because they aren’t 
aware of the options, or what exciting careers  
they can lead to.
At the third step in the journey, Drax has 
demonstrated it recognises the importance of 
ensuring appropriate career guidance for young 
people to understand potential futures in STEM 
sectors. This has been demonstrated by Drax’s 
work in developing career guidance against the 
Gatsby Benchmarks, which are a framework 
of eight guidelines that define excellent career 
guidance which the Department for Education 
expects schools and colleges to meet. 
It operates throughout the UK and is determined 
to roll out its social mobility activities to all areas, 
but Selby is an area where many ideas are being 
piloted. It has identified schools as being crucial 
to the social mobility agenda and it sees raising 
aspirations as central to its work here. Much 
can be done in raising aspirations by raising 
awareness and by informing children that there 
are opportunities available for them in a wide 
variety of roles.
It is clear from the insights from the best practice 
that Drax is working to inspire communities  
which were built on industries of yesterday – 
and which suffered with their decline – that they 
can have an exciting future with the industries 
of tomorrow. It is aligning its social mobility 
programme with its own ambitious aspirations 
for a carbon free future. By being centres of 
Insights
04
Insights
25
Drax has made clear that  
this isn’t a change just about 
the planet - it’s about  
people too
energy technology excellence, Drax will be able 
to meet the Government’s and its own energy 
strategies, whilst supporting the communities it’s 
in, supporting both people and planet.
The business does not adopt a top down 
approach to its social mobility area, but works  
with the local community, whether in the form of 
the Big Local fund or its schools cluster, involving 
local people in defining their own priorities.
Drax is now going through a period of change  
as it embarks on a journey of transforming  
energy in its ambition of becoming carbon 
negative by 2030. But Drax has made clear that 
this isn’t a change just about the planet - it’s  
about people too. 
Drax is working with the Social Mobility Pledge  
to assess, question, challenge, and most 
importantly develop a plan that truly transforms 
energy in a way that delivers for and empowers 
local communities.
In recent polling commissioned by the Social 
Mobility Pledge, it was found that 73% of those 
under the age of 35 say companies need a plan 
in place to protect and support opportunity. 
Drax is one of the largest energy companies 
in the UK and recognises that with this scale 
comes responsibility, but also the necessity 
to take leadership in being a truly responsible 
business with purpose; and as a global  
business, becomes an advocate for progressive 
corporate change. 
The company has shown a strong record 
of best practice on boosting social mobility 
by tackling the Skills Gap, in line with its 
transforming energy agenda, and this 
Opportunity Action Plan sets out to build 
on those strong foundations and transform 
opportunity too. 
Insights
26
Data Analysis
Social mobility research conducted in 323 local 
authorities in England and Wales shows the top 
20% of local authorities are labelled as ‘hotspots’, 
areas where social mobility is good, and the 
bottom 20% of local authorities are identified as 
‘coldspots’, areas where social mobility is poor.
It is important to note that just because an area 
is designated a hot or cold spot based on the 
current rankings, it is not the complete picture. 
An area which is a social mobility hotspot for 
most indices can also mask sharp decline in 
social mobility at different life stages such as 
early years. 
These complexities highlight that social mobility 
cannot be tackled with a ‘one size fits all 
approach’. Therefore, a thorough understanding 
of the challenges those individual communities 
face is vital and we assess social mobility below 
through those life stages. 
05
Local  
Community 
Data  
Analysis: 
Informing Next Steps
27
Office 
Constituency
Drax Selby 
Selby and Ainsty
Haven Power 
Ipswich
Opus Energy Northampton 
South Northamptonshire
Ranking/533 constituencies
181
475
153
Overall 
Ranking
Data Analysis
28
Early Years
195
Schools
247
Youth
221
Adulthood
167
Life Stage
National
Rank/533
Selby and Ainsty
Percentage of Nursery providers rated outstanding or good by Ofsted
Percentage of children eligible for free school meals achieving a  
good level of development
Percentage of children eligible for FSM attending a primary school  
rated outstanding or good by Ofsted
Percentage of children eligible for FSM achieving at least the expected  
level in reading, writing and maths at the end of Key Stage 2
Percentage of children eligible for FSM attending a secondary school  
rated outstanding or good by Ofsted
Average Attainment 8 score for pupils eligible for FSM
Percentage of young people eligible for FSM that are not in education,  
employment or training (positive destination) after completing KS4
Average points score per entry for young people eligible for FSM at  
age 15 taking A-level or equivalent qualification
Percentage of young people eligible for FSM at age 15 achieving  
two or more A-Levels or equivalent by the age of 19
Median weekly salary of all employees who live in the local area
Average house prices compared to median annual salary of employees  
who live in the local area
Percentage of people that live in the local area who are in managerial and  
professional occupations
Percentage of jobs that are paid less than the applicable Living Wage  
Foundation living wage
Percentage of families with children who own their home
97
 
49
87
 
36
79
38
91
 
28
23
440
 
6
31
28
76
Data Analysis
29
Selby and Ainsty Analysis
Drax operates Europe’s biggest biomass power station 
at their plant in North Yorkshire, within the parliamentary 
constituency of Selby and Ainsty. The area overall ranks at 
181/533 constituencies, placing it just outside the top third 
of constituencies. 
Early Years
Selby and Ainsty is ranked 195 out of 533 
at the Early Years life stages. An impressive 
ninety-seven percent of nurseries available 
in the area are rated as good or outstanding, 
better than the national average of ninety-
three percent. Unfortunately, just forty-nine  
percent of children eligible for free school 
meals achieve a good level of development 
by the end of the Early Years Foundation 
Stage, less than the national average of  
fifty-three percent.
School
The school life stage is the area Selby and 
Ainsty performs most poorly at, being ranked 
247 out 533. In terms of attainment, only 
thirty-six percent of FSM-eligible children 
achieve the expected level in reading, writing 
and maths by the end of Key Stage 2, despite 
more of those pupils attending good or 
outstanding primary schools than nationally. 
Despite seventy-nine percent of FSM-eligible 
children attending a secondary school rated 
good or outstanding, above the national 
average of seventy-two percent, the average 
attainment 8 score for FSM eligible pupils 
is 38 in Selby and Ainsty, compared to 39 
across England.
Youth
At the youth stage, Selby and Ainsty ranks 221 
out of 533. Ninety-one percent of FSM eligible 
children go on to a ‘positive destination’ after Key 
Stage 4, meaning they find further education, or 
go into employment or training. This is above 
the England average of eighty-eight percent. 
Although just twenty-three percent of FSM eligible 
young people achieve 2 or more A Levels or 
equivalent, worse than the average of thirty-four 
percent, those that do take A Levels or equivalent 
end up with 28 points, higher than the average  
of 26.
Adulthood
Selby and Ainsty scores most highly in the 
adulthood stage, at 167/533. At £440 a week, 
average earnings are only slightly lower than the 
England average of £443. Another poor area is the 
percentage of jobs paying less than the real living 
wage, twenty-eight percent in Selby compared 
to twenty-five percent nationally. Slightly more 
jobs in the area are managerial or professional 
(thirty-one percent in Selby vs thirty percent 
nationally). Lower than average house prices (they 
are six times annualised earnings, better than the 
eight times nationally) lend to a high rate of home 
ownership: at seventy-six percent, Selby and 
Ainsty ranks as the 52nd best area on this metric.
Data Analysis
30
Early Years
390
Schools
523
Youth
211
Adulthood
396
Life Stage
National
Rank/533
Ipswich
Percentage of Nursery providers rated outstanding or good by Ofsted
Percentage of children eligible for free school meals achieving a  
good level of development
Percentage of children eligible for FSM attending a primary school  
rated outstanding or good by Ofsted
Percentage of children eligible for FSM achieving at least the expected  
level in reading, writing and maths at the end of Key Stage 2
Percentage of children eligible for FSM attending a secondary school  
rated outstanding or good by Ofsted
Average Attainment 8 score for pupils eligible for FSM
Percentage of young people eligible for FSM that are not in education,  
employment or training (positive destination) after completing KS4
Average points score per entry for young people eligible for FSM at  
age 15 taking A-level or equivalent qualification
Percentage of young people eligible for FSM at age 15 achieving  
two or more A-Levels or equivalent by the age of 19
Median weekly salary of all employees who live in the local area
Average house prices compared to median annual salary of employees  
who live in the local area
Percentage of people that live in the local area who are in managerial and  
professional occupations
Percentage of jobs that are paid less than the applicable Living Wage  
Foundation living wage
Percentage of families with children who own their home
89
 
54
50
 
36
40
36
89
 
26
37
392
 
6
24
23
56
Data Analysis
31
Ipswich Analysis
Ipswich is the location of Haven Power, one of Drax’s 
companies. At 475 out of 533, it is the lowest ranked of 
Drax’s locations in England for social mobility, and is a 
social mobility coldspot. 
Early Years
At 390 out of 533, Ipswich scores ranks poorly in 
the Early Years life stage. Eighty-nine percent of 
nurseries are ranked good or outstanding, worse 
than the national average of ninety-three percent, 
but fifty-four percent of free school meal eligible 
children achieve a good level of development, 
slightly higher than the fifty-three percent  
national average.
School
Ipswich’s worse ranking is at the school stage, 
where it is the 10th worst area in England at 
523/533. Just fifty percent of free school meal 
(FSM) eligible children are in a good or outstanding 
primary school, worse than the average of 
eighty-three percent and placing Ipswich as the 
fifth worst area for this metric. Thirty-six percent 
of children eligible for free schools achieve the 
expected level in reading, writing, and maths by 
the end of KS2, worse than the thirty-nine percent 
English average. The same pattern is replicated 
at secondary school, where only forty percent of 
FSM eligible children attend a good or outstanding 
secondary school in Ipswich, compared to 
seventy-two percent nationally, the attainment 8 
score is 36, lower than the national average of 39.
Youth
At the youth stage, Ipswich recovers to become 
211/533. The area reports a higher level of FSM-
eligible children finding a positive destination 
after Key Stage 4, at eighty-nine percent it is 
higher than the national average of eighty-eight 
percent. The area matches the national average 
for other A level or equivalent point score, at 26, 
but a higher percentage of FSM eligible young 
people will achieve at least 2 or more A Levels 
by age 19: thirty-seven percent in Ipswich and 
thirty-four percent nationally. 
Adulthood
Ipswich slips in the rankings again at the 
Adulthood stage, where it is 396/533. A lower 
than normal housing affordability does not 
translate into higher home ownership, which 
at fifty-six percent places Stoke on Trent North 
as the 447th constituency for this metric. Just 
twenty-four percent of jobs are managerial 
or professional, lower than the thirty percent 
average. Average earnings are £392 weekly, 
much lower than the England average of £443. 
This is despite there being more jobs paying at 
or above the real living wage than in England as 
a whole, at seventy-seven percent in Ipswich vs 
seventy-five percent nationally. 
Data Analysis
32
Early Years
244
Schools
401
Youth
133
Adulthood
36
Life Stage
National
Rank/533
South Northamptonshire
Percentage of Nursery providers rated outstanding or good by Ofsted
Percentage of children eligible for free school meals achieving a  
good level of development
Percentage of children eligible for FSM attending a primary school  
rated outstanding or good by Ofsted
Percentage of children eligible for FSM achieving at least the expected  
level in reading, writing and maths at the end of Key Stage 2
Percentage of children eligible for FSM attending a secondary school  
rated outstanding or good by Ofsted
Average Attainment 8 score for pupils eligible for FSM
Percentage of young people eligible for FSM that are not in education,  
employment or training (positive destination) after completing KS4
Average points score per entry for young people eligible for FSM at  
age 15 taking A-level or equivalent qualification
Percentage of young people eligible for FSM at age 15 achieving  
two or more A-Levels or equivalent by the age of 19
Median weekly salary of all employees who live in the local area
Average house prices compared to median annual salary of employees  
who live in the local area
Percentage of people that live in the local area who are in managerial and  
professional occupations
Percentage of jobs that are paid less than the applicable Living Wage  
Foundation living wage
Percentage of families with children who own their home
94
 
52
87
 
31
71
34
92
 
25
36
489
 
8
35
18
80
Data Analysis
33
South Northamptonshire Analysis
Drax operates the Opus Energy site in Northampton, which 
falls in the South Northamptonshire constituency. Ranked 
at 153/533, the area does still see some challenges in 
some aspects of social mobility. 
Early Years
At the early years life stage ninety-four 
percent of nursery providers achieve good or 
outstanding ratings in South Northamptonshire 
compared to ninety-three percent nationally. 
This slightly better provision does not result in 
better attainment levels: only fifty-two percent 
of FSM eligible children achieve a good level 
of development by the end of the Early Years 
Foundation Stage in South Northamptonshire, 
compared to fifty-three percent nationally.
School
South Northamptonshire ranks most poorly  
at the school stage where it is ranked at 
401/533. Eighty-seven percent of FSM-eligible 
children attend a primary school rated good  
or outstanding which is higher than the 
national average of eighty-three percent, but 
attainment is lower than the average: just 
thirty-one percent of FSM eligible children 
achieve at least the expected level in reading, 
writing, and maths at the end of KS2  
compared to thirty-nine percent nationally. 
Poor attainment continues into secondary 
school where despite seventy-one percent 
of FSM-eligible children attend a good or 
outstanding school, worse than the average 
of seventy-two percent, and the average 
attainment 8 score is 34 compared to 39 
nationally. This is South Northamptonshire’s 
worst ranking, at 499/533.
Youth
South Northamptonshire ranks at 133/533 at the 
youth stage, placing it within the top twenty-five 
percent of constituencies. Ninety-two percent of 
FSM-eligible children find themselves in a positive 
destination after Key Stage 4; across England that 
figure is slightly lower at eighty-eight percent. 
Thirty-six percent of young people who are FSM 
eligible will achieve two or more A Levels or 
equivalent by the age of 19, better than the  
England average of thirty-four percent; but those 
that do go into further education have an average 
points score per entry of 25 compared to 26 if they 
were studying elsewhere in England.
Adulthood
At the adulthood life stage, South  
Northamptonshire ranks very highly at 36/533 
constituencies in England. In this life stage, the 
area records its best measure in any life stage, with 
eighty percent of families owning their own home, 
the 23rd best ranking in the country. House prices 
are in line with the rest of the country, in both 
England as a whole and South Northamptonshire 
they are eight times the average salary. Average 
earnings are £489 a week, better than the average 
of £443, and eighty-two percent of jobs pay at or 
above the real living wage, better than seventy-
five percent nationally. The area also has a higher 
proportion of managerial or professional jobs, at 
thirty-five percent they are slightly higher than the 
England average figure of thirty percent. 
Data Analysis
34
Data Analysis
35
Analysis Part B - Covid-19 Impact 
As well as considering the social mobility baseline for a community, our analysis also 
reflects the developing impact of Coronavirus on opportunity. The Office for Budget 
Responsibility’s Covid Reference Scenario predicts that the economy of the United 
Kingdom will contract by 35%, with unemployment potentially peaking at 10 million. 
But just like the issue of social immobility, the 
impact of the coronavirus pandemic is varied 
across the UK. While the 35% national average 
figure is high in itself, it is the case that some areas 
– predominantly in the North West and Midlands 
– will see a reduction in their economic growth 
by almost 50%. Only one of the twenty hardest hit 
areas are in the South East or London. 
In addition to the significant diversity of 
geographic impact estimated by the Centre for 
Progressive Policy, the Resolution Foundation 
point to previous data suggesting that there is 
likely to be a large impact on those leaving full 
time education and graduating into an economy 
in the midst of turmoil. In the 2008 Recession, the 
unemployment rate across the whole population 
rose from 5.2% in 2007 to 8.5% in 2011; for 
those with GCSE equivalent qualifications the 
unemployment figures were 22% in 2007 and 32% 
in 2011.
An exacerbating factor for those leaving full time 
education without a degree is the varied impact 
of the virus on different sectors of the economy. 
While sectors such as financial sectors will 
emerge from the coronavirus pandemic relatively 
unscathed, with a contraction of just -5%, sectors 
like retail and hospitality, which have a higher 
proportion of workers who haven’t completed 
higher education, will contract by -50% and -85% 
respectively. See Appendix 1.
So the data suggests a varied and profound impact 
across locations, ages, and education levels. This 
has a worrying impact for social mobility in the 
United Kingdom, as we predict that 8 out of 14 
measures used to calculate social mobility will be 
impacted. We have combined existing place based 
social mobility analysis with the predicted impact of 
coronavirus to estimate the size of a communities 
developing “Opportunity Gap” and ranked these 
throughout England.
From our analysis we believe that there are 16 
areas in England at risk of a ‘double opportunity 
hit’: already amongst the worst areas for social 
mobility, they are going to be particularly badly hit 
by coronavirus. These areas are Babergh, Bolsover, 
Broxtowe, Cannock Chase, Corby, Crawley, East 
Cambridgeshire, East Northamptonshire, Erewash, 
Melton, North Warwickshire, Norwich, Rutland, 
South Derbyshire, Tamworth and Wellingborough. 
See Appendix 2.
A list of the top 20% areas with the largest 
opportunity gap is included in Appendix 3, we  
refer to these as “COVID Opportunity Coldspots.”
Corby
South Derbyshire
Wellingborough
Melton
North Warwickshire
Northampton
Ipswich
Selby
318
310
308
306
296
167
151
148
1
2
3
4
5
138
168
175
Local Authority
Opportunity Gap
Ranking
Data Analysis
36
Sector
Sector
Sector
GVA (%)
GVA (£m)
GVA (£m)
Predicted
Decline
Decline (%)
Selby’s Economy
Selby’s largest sectors
Biggest Impacted Sectors
1
40
1.9
-85
Construction
-70%
Real estate
259
Agriculture &c
438
Other services
-60%
Manufacturing
389
Education
-90%
Wholesale 
and retail
140
Manufacturing
-55%
Transportation 
and storage
209
Accommodation 
and food
-85%
5
139
6.8
-90
12
259
12.6
-20
3
438
21.3
-17
10
87
4.2
-40
7
42
2.0
+50
14
140
6.8
-50
2
91
4.4
-40
9
389
18.9
-55
6
22
1.1
-5
13
209
10.2
-35
4
96
4.7
-70
11
56
2.7
-20
8
14
0.7
-45
15
36
1.7
-60
Selby’s biggest sectors are agriculture, mining, electricity, gas, water and waste (Drax’s sector), manufacturing, real estate 
activities, transportation and storage, and wholesale and retail.  Only one, manufacturing, is amongst the worst hit sectors.  
Although experiencing the second worst economic contraction of Drax’s locations, at 38.8%, opportunity gaps will be 
minimised thanks to a relatively strong position on the Social Mobility Index.
Sector Key
1 Accommodation and food services  2 Administrative and support services  3 Agriculture, mining, electricity, gas, water and waste  
4 Construction  5 Education  6 Financial and insurance activities  7 Human health and social work activities  8 Information and 
communication  9 Manufacturing  10 Professional, scientific, and technical activities  11 Public administration and defence   
12 Real estate activities  13 Transportation and storage  14 Wholesale and retail (including repair of motor vehicles)  15 Other
Data Analysis
37
Sector
Sector
Sector
GVA (%)
GVA (£m)
GVA (£m)
Predicted
Decline
Decline (%)
Ipswich’s Economy
Ipswich’s largest sectors
Biggest Impacted Sectors
1
83
1.9
-85
Construction
-70%
Human health
427
Agriculture &c
421
Financial
485
Other services
-60%
Education
-90%
Wholesale 
and retail
464
Manufacturing
-55%
Transportation 
and storage
408
Accommodation 
and food
-85%
5
232
5.4
-90
12
293
6.9
-20
3
421
9.9
-17
10
156
3.7
-40
7
427
10.0
+50
14
464
10.9
-50
2
282
6.6
-40
9
126
3.0
-55
6
485
11.4
-5
13
408
9.6
-35
4
289
6.8
-70
11
376
8.8
-20
8
100
2.3
-45
15
121
2.8
-60
Ipswich’s biggest sectors are financial and insurance activities, wholesale and retail, human health and social work, 
agriculture etc, and transportation and storage.  With none of these sectors in the most impacted by coronavirus, and 
two minimally or positively impacted (financial is minimally hit, human health is predicted to grow), Ipswich’s economy 
is the least impacted of Drax’s locations, facing a reduction of ‘just’ 28.9%, well below the whole UK assumption of a 
35% decrease. 
Data Analysis
38
Sector
Sector
Sector
GVA (%)
GVA (£m)
GVA (£m)
Predicted
Decline
Decline (%)
Northampton’s Economy
Northampton’s largest sectors
Biggest Impacted Sectors
1
129
1.8
-85
Construction
-70%
Human health
711
Construction
663
Real estate
613
Other services
-60%
Education
-90%
Wholesale 
and retail
948
Manufacturing
-55%
Financial and 
insurance
921
Accommodation 
and food
-85%
5
369
5.0
-90
12
613
8.4
-20
3
413
5.6
-17
10
268
3.7
-40
7
711
9.7
+50
14
948
12.9
-50
2
440
6.0
-40
9
510
7.0
-55
6
921
12.6
-5
13
393
5.4
-35
4
663
9.0
-70
11
309
4.2
-20
8
164
2.2
-45
15
481
6.6
-60
Northampton’s biggest sectors are wholesale and retail, financial and insurance, human health, construction, and real estate.  
Construction is the sole sector that is amongst the most impacted by coronavirus.  Relatively large human health and 
financial and insurance sectors are able to provide some buffer against worse impacts, and the area’s economy is predicted 
to reduce by 32.6%, well below the UK average of 35%.  However, despite a slightly more resilient economy than Selby, 
because Northampton is a social mobility coldspot, the existing gaps in opportunity are going to be worsened more than in 
Selby.  Northampton has an opportunity gap 167, making it the 138th most impacted area.
Sector Key
1 Accommodation and food services  2 Administrative and support services  3 Agriculture, mining, electricity, gas, water and waste  
4 Construction  5 Education  6 Financial and insurance activities  7 Human health and social work activities  8 Information and 
communication  9 Manufacturing  10 Professional, scientific, and technical activities  11 Public administration and defence   
12 Real estate activities  13 Transportation and storage  14 Wholesale and retail (including repair of motor vehicles)  15 Other
Data Analysis
39
6.1 Enabling a high skill, 
zero-carbon future
Drax’s carbon negative ambitions for Bioenergy 
Carbon Capture and Storage (BECCS) and the Zero 
Carbon Humber are underpinned by a strong and 
visible social strategy to help level up and create  
skills and opportunity for a zero carbon future.
Drax’s recent report, ‘Capturing carbon at Drax: 
Delivering jobs, clean growth and levelling up the 
Humber,’ found that around 50,000 jobs could  
be created and supported in the Humber region  
if BECCS, alongside other carbon capture and 
hydrogen technologies, are deployed to  
decarbonise the UK’s most carbon-intensive region. 
This could transform the region’s fortunes in the  
face of the economic uncertainty caused by the 
COVID crisis so it is therefore vital we ensure local 
people are equipped with the skills to take  
advantage of these new opportunities. 
This is crucial particularly in light of the  
following factors:
 To realise the opportunities of Zero Carbon  
Humber from 2024, interventions are required now;
 There is a skills gap in the Humber already; 
 COVID crisis has already led to a high proportion  
of furloughs in the region and there is the risk of 
longer-term economic scarring;
 To ensure a well skilled local labour force able 
to participate in the ZCH project by the start of 
construction in 2024, interventions will need to be 
made now, including demonstrating the value of 
vocational work at school and offering enhanced 
apprenticeships. 
6.2 Supporting learning & 
development in local communities 
and tackling the skills gap
In October 2020, Drax reaffirmed its long-standing 
commitment to skills and training, and supporting 
education across the North with a £180,000 
investment in a five-year partnership with  
Selby College.
The five-year partnership will enable the college  
to deliver community education programmes,  
as well as support for retraining, to ensure 
students are developing the skills needed in 
innovative clean technologies which will help  
to drive a zero carbon economy.
As part of its commitment to lead this agenda 
Drax is the first UK energy company to set a  
new bold ambition of Mobilising a Million, to 
improve skills, education, employability and 
opportunity for one million people by 2025. 
Drax will focus on all these areas delivering  
skills sessions via online media such as Oak 
Academy, Learn Live and webinars, and resume 
face-to-face sessions when practicable.  
It will continue its long standing commitment  
to support education through site tours and 
virtual tours, educational outreach programmes,  
Stone Foundation, Laptops for Learners, and 
school interactions. 
To support employability Drax will provide 
targeted support to enable individuals to 
develop their career through Apprenticeships, 
Graduate schemes, Internships, and Drax 
supported college partnerships. Drax will 
improve opportunity in targeted schools with 
high proportions of free school meals, where  
it will increase positive interactions with a 
careers or educational focus by providing 
careers events and support, science fairs, work 
experience, CV support and women focussed 
events to promote gender balance in the  
energy industry.
6.3 Leadership through advocacy 
Drax has demonstrated best practice in boosting 
social mobility and has taken local communities  
with it on its journey towards a high skilled, zero 
carbon future. 
In working with the Social Mobility Pledge it has 
also demonstrated an appetite to go further on 
challenging itself on boosting social mobility 
and opportunities. 
With the combination of its best practice and 
leadership in renewable energy, Drax will 
continue to be a strong advocate for purpose-
led business and positive social impact. 
Next Steps
06
Next Steps
Introduction
