1 
 
Will Gardiner  
CEO 
Drax Group  
Drax Power Station  
Selby  
North Yorkshire  
YO8 8PH  
 
29 April 2021 
 
Dear Will,  
Findings and Recommendations from recent meetings of the Drax Independent Advisory 
Board 
Thank you for coming to talk to the IAB at our recent meeting on February 9th. We were 
interested to hear about the proposed acquisition of Pinnacle Renewable Energy in Canada 
and the opportunity for Drax to expand its sourcing of sustainable biomass. It is positive to 
hear that Drax is committed to ensuring best practice in health and safety and sustainability 
across the Group and intends to invest accordingly to deliver this outcome.  We note your 
awareness that the forests of British Columbia and Alberta present a different landscape for 
Drax and we look forward to supporting you as you take ownership of Pinnacle  to ensure 
that Drax’s supply chain reflects the highest possible standards in sustainable biomass and 
delivers positive outcomes for the climate, environment and communities.  
Since I last wrote in August 2020, we have held four meetings of the IAB. The theme of these 
meetings has been to understand how Drax is evidencing that it is meeting its ‘Responsible 
Sourcing Policy’, and also test if aspects of the responsible sourcing policy are stringent 
enough. 
In September we discussed Drax’s work to demonstrate the forest carbon aspects of the 
policy through the catchment area analyses that have already been carried out in most of 
the areas where Drax sources its fibre. We were impressed by the breadth of data collected. 
To further improve the analysis so it can more closely demonstrate causality between 
bioenergy use and changes in forest dynamics we recommend Drax: 
1. Explore using statistical approaches to data analysis 
2. Seek further independent review of the reports  
In November and December, we held two meetings (in lieu of one face-to-face meeting 
which had been planned pre-Covid). We considered two independent reports commissioned 
by the IAB – the first to provide more detail on the impacts of biomass removals on 
biodiversity in the southeast US and the second to help the IAB understand how global 
carbon accounting works in the bioenergy sector.  
 
We commissioned a biodiversity literature review from Pilio – a consultancy spin-off from 
Oxford University. Lord John Krebs FRS, Professor Virginia Dale and I oversaw the work from 
an IAB perspective alongside Professor Yadvinder Malhi FRS from Oxford University.  Pilio’s 
literature review concluded that the impact of thinning on forest biodiversity in the SE US 
was neutral to positive.  
 
2 
 
We were content with the rigour and quality of the review and the conclusion that there is 
strong evidence for the positive impact of forest thinning on biodiversity.  The review 
highlighted that more research needs to be done to understand the impact of removal of 
coarse woody debris, as there was not sufficient evidence to draw conclusions. Our key 
recommendations for Drax are: 
 
1. Collaborate with forestry research community and other bioenergy companies to 
address evidence gaps.  
2. Repeat this type of review in other geographic regions around the world where Drax 
sources biomass feedstock.  
3. Engage with the Science-based Targets for Nature framework development.   
 
In December we discussed carbon accounting, based on a review carried out by consulting 
company Ecometrica. The report set out the principles of carbon accounting in the 
bioenergy sector. It is clear that the area of carbon accounting is complex and technical and 
there are no simple conclusions such as ‘biomass is always bad’ or ‘biomass is good’ for 
greenhouse gas mitigation. This review helped inform discussion as we seek to advise Drax 
on the latest science and best practice. 
 
In addition to Drax continuing to deepen its understanding and documentation of carbon 
flows in all geographies, it also faces an ongoing challenge of communication of this complex 
topic. It is not easy to respond to an ideological argument with a technical one. The IAB is 
ready to help Drax think through how to communicate this data and research for external 
audiences. 
 
In February we followed up on questions raised in previous meetings in November and 
December regarding biodiversity and forest carbon, with a presentation of Drax’s Healthy 
Forest Landscapes (HFL) programme which seeks to quantify biodiversity and carbon 
impacts on forests. We note that the approach that Drax is leading on is now being adopted 
by other large users of the forest resource, via the Earthworm Foundation. Developing the 
HFL tool is an admirable approach to trying to better understand the health of the forests 
that Drax sources from, however, the tool and what it can communicate needs further 
development. We urge the Drax team to revisit and improve the methodology used for each 
metric, especially biodiversity and social wellbeing. We will discuss in more detail how to 
improve the assessment of each metric in a future IAB meeting.  
Demonstrating biomass sustainability, the impact on biodiversity, understanding carbon 
accounting, and the HFL tool are key topics that are important to keep discussing and 
exploring in more detail. The IAB are very pleased with Drax personnel, who have all been 
enormously cooperative and receptive of our feedback. I look forward to working with you 
and your teams further and to hearing your views on the above. 
Yours sincerely,  
Professor Sir John Beddington  
Chair of the Independent Advisory Board 
