 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MILLBROOK POWER 
PROJECT 
Millbrook, 
Bedfordshire 
Statement of Community Consultation 
May 2017 
www.millbrookpower.co.uk   
 
 
 
 
 
May 2017                                                               1 
 
This Statement of Community Consultation ("SoCC") is published in connection with 
a proposed up to 299 MW gas-fired power station, its associated gas and electrical 
connections and other related infrastructure at Rookery South Pit situated in the 
Marston Vale, approximately 3 km north of Ampthill and 7 km south-west of Bedford 
in Central Bedfordshire (the "Project").   
 
The capacity of the gas-fired power station will be in excess of 50 MW. As such, it is 
classified as a Nationally Significant Infrastructure Project ("NSIP") under the Planning 
Act 2008. The Project therefore requires a Development Consent Order ("DCO") in 
order for it to be built. Any DCO would be made by the Secretary of State for Business, 
Energy & Industrial Strategy. 
 
The Project was initially taken through the first stages of the DCO planning application 
process in 2014. However, in March 2015, the project was put on hold due to market 
and political uncertainty. Under new ownership (see below) the Project is now once 
again being taken forward.   
 
This SoCC is part of a consultation process, required by the Planning Act 2008. This 
SoCC explains how Millbrook Power Limited ("MPL”), the promoter of the Project, 
proposes to consult people living in the vicinity of the Project, businesses and other 
organisations about the Project, in advance of submitting an application for a DCO for 
the Project before the end of 2017.   
 
MPL carried out both statutory and non-statutory consultation as part of its work in 
2014. As part of the 2014 statutory consultation, a SoCC was published after having 
been consulted on with the local planning authorities and this SoCC is closely 
modelled on the 2014 SoCC. MPL have had regard to the responses received as part 
of the 2014 non-statutory and statutory consultation and these have influenced the 
further iteration of the Project design that is now being consulted on in 2017. 
 
MPL has consulted Central Bedfordshire Council and Bedfordshire Borough Council, 
as the local planning authorities, about the content of this Statement of Community 
Consultation and has had regard to their responses.   
 
 
May 2017                                                               2 
 
 
 
As noted above, a consultation/communication plan was published in 2014 and this 
plan has been updated and revised. Both documents are available from MPL or via its 
website www.millbrookpower.co.uk. 
 
MPL is a company owned by Drax Group plc ("Drax") (acquired in December 2016). 
Drax is seeking to develop gas fired power stations at Rookery South Pit and 
elsewhere in the UK to support the Government’s drive to a low carbon economy and 
its gas generation strategy. 
 
This SoCC explains: 
 key details about the Project; 
 how MPL is publishing preliminary environmental information about the Project; 
 how MPL is going to consult local people and communities about the Project and 
what activities will be undertaken to give them access to information about the 
proposal and help them to understand what particular aspects of the proposal may 
mean to them, enabling them to provide informed feedback; 
 how people can become involved in shaping the Project before a DCO application 
is submitted by putting forward their views to influence the Project; and 
 how people can provide feedback to MPL from consultation activities and ensure 
that they are informed about the Project.  
 
The Project 
The key details of the proposed Project are: 
 the construction of a Power Generation Plant with a rated electrical output of 
between 50 and 299 MW of electricity. The plant will have one stack, of up to 35 m 
in height. It will include a new purpose built access road which will either be from 
Green Lane to the site of the generating element of the Project, or will connect from 
the site of the generating element of the Project to an access road constructed for 
the Rookery South Resource Recovery project from Green Lane into Rookery 
South Pit;  
 the site for the Generating Equipment covers an area of approximately 4 ha;  
 
 
May 2017                                                               3 
 
 the Power Generation Plant will produce electricity from natural gas. As such, fuel 
for the Power Generation Plant will be provided by an underground pipeline 
connection and will not be delivered by road to the site; 
 it will include the construction of a new electrical connection (including up to 500 m 
of underground cable) to the National Grid Electricity Transmission System and the 
construction of a new underground pipeline (up to 1.82 km in length) to bring 
natural gas to the Power Generating Plant from the National Transmission System;  
 it will create approximately 150 jobs during a construction period lasting two years 
and create up to 15 permanent jobs once commercial operations have begun;    
 it responds to the Government’s need for new gas generation in order to underpin 
the country’s energy security and its transition to a low-carbon economy; and 
 the station would emit about 50% less carbon dioxide (CO2) than an equivalent 
sized coal-fired power plant, and is designed to operate flexibly so that it can 
respond quickly and efficiently to short-term variation in customer demand and 
intermittent output from wind power generation. 
 
It is acknowledged that during construction and operation there is potential for negative 
impacts on some local communities and the environment, for example noise from the 
operation of the Power Generation Plant, the visual impact of the stack and impacts 
on the local and regional transport network as a result of construction traffic. An 
Environmental Impact Assessment ("EIA") is being undertaken; the EIA helps to 
understand and seeks to reduce the potential effects of the Project’s construction and 
operation. An Environmental Statement will be submitted as part of the application for 
a DCO for the Project. More information on this process is provided below. The EIA 
process is also considering the potential positive effects of the operation of the Project. 
 
The Planning Process 
DCO applications for NSIPs are submitted to the Planning Inspectorate which will 
process and examine the application before making a recommendation on that 
application to the relevant Secretary of State. The final decision on the application is 
made by the Secretary of State and if it is successful, a DCO will be made.  
 
 
 
May 2017                                                               4 
 
The Government's policies in relation to NSIPs are set out in National Policy 
Statements (NPSs). The proposed Project has been developed with regard to the 
relevant Energy NPSs, in particular EN-1 (Energy), EN-2 (Fossil Fuel Electricity 
Generating Infrastructure), EN-4 (Gas Networks Infrastructure) and EN-5 (Electricity 
Networks Infrastructure).  EN-1 states that "gas will continue to play an important role 
in the electricity sector- providing vital flexibility to support an increasing amount of 
low-carbon generation and to maintain security of supply."   
 
When determining a DCO application, the Secretary of State must have regard to the 
relevant NPSs and must make a decision in accordance with these unless other 
considerations apply, including where she/he is satisfied that the adverse impact of a 
proposed development would outweigh its benefits.  
  
When considering whether to accept an application for examination, the Planning 
Inspectorate must be satisfied that the applicant has undertaken effective pre-
application consultation.  Pre-application consultation is essential in allowing MPL to 
understand and minimise the impacts of the Project and to allow a thorough 
examination by the Planning Inspectorate. MPL is required to submit a Consultation 
Report with its application for a DCO.  This report will include details of the local 
community feedback received (both in 2014 and in 2017), explain how MPL has had 
regard to relevant feedback and will detail how MPL has complied with the consultation 
requirements of the Planning Act 2008. 
 
The community consultation described in this statement is carried out under Section 
47 of the Planning Act 2008. It is in addition to consultation that will be carried out with 
specific statutory consultees (such as nature conservation bodies) and those with 
relevant interests in land (including owners and occupiers within the Project boundary) 
under Section 42 of the Planning Act 2008. It is also in addition to wider notification of 
the Project under Section 48 of the Planning Act 2008.  
 
Information on the planning process for NSIPs and the NPSs can be found at: 
http://infrastructure.planningportal.gov.uk/ 
 
 
 
May 2017                                                               5 
 
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/consents-and-planning-applications-for-national-
energy-infrastructure-projects 
 
Environmental Information & Impacts 
The Project will be designed and developed to meet or exceed current quality, safety 
and environmental standards and efforts will be made to minimise its impact on the 
local environment, both during its construction and its operation.  The extent and scale 
of the development and MPL’s proposals to mitigate its impacts will be consulted upon 
locally and will be amongst the issues considered by the Planning Inspectorate on 
behalf of the Secretary of State. 
 
Because of the nature and size of the Project, MPL is undertaking an EIA pursuant to 
the Infrastructure Planning (Environmental Impact Assessment) Regulations 2009. 
The Project falls under the EIA Regulations 2009 regime and not the Infrastructure 
Planning (Environmental Impact Assessment) Regulations 2017 (EIA Regulations 
2017) regime. This is because a scoping opinion was requested from the Secretary of 
State under the EIA Regulations 2009 before the commencement of the EIA 
Regulations 2017. This means that, in accordance with the transitional arrangements 
at Regulation 37 of the EIA Regulations 2017, the EIA Regulations 2009 will continue 
to apply to the Project. 
The EIA considers the likely significant environmental effects of the Project including 
those on air and water quality, noise, visual and landscape, traffic, local ecology, 
archaeology and heritage, socio-economics and cumulative impacts of the Project 
considered together with other development.   
 
MPL has consulted with various statutory bodies concerning the scope of the EIA, 
including local authorities, the Environment Agency, Highways England, Natural 
England and utility providers. A request for a Scoping Opinion was submitted to the 
Planning Inspectorate on June 20th 2014, accompanied by a Scoping Report. The 
Scoping Report outlined which environmental topics would be covered by the EIA and 
how the assessments would be undertaken. The Planning Inspectorate issued its 
formal Scoping Opinion on July 28th 2014.  
 
 
 
May 2017                                                               6 
 
These 
documents 
are 
available 
on 
the 
Millbrook 
Power 
website 
(www.millbrookpower.co.uk) and via the dedicated section on the Planning 
Inspectorate’s website:  
http://infrastructure.planningportal.gov.uk/projects/eastern/millbrook-power/ 
 
As part of the pre-application consultation materials on the proposed Project, MPL will 
publish a Preliminary Environmental Information Report ("PEIR") and a non-technical 
summary ("NTS") of the same.  The PEIR presents the information gathered to date 
and provides the results of MPL’s preliminary assessments as to the likely significant 
environmental effects of the Project.   It does not set out the final findings but will 
include information on provisional mitigation measures.  During consultation, MPL will 
make available details on landscaping proposals and other measures to mitigate the 
Project’s impact.  MPL will provide copies of the PEIR and the NTS to Central 
Bedfordshire Council and Bedford Borough Council as the local planning authorities. 
Both documents will also be made available at: the main office of Central Bedfordshire 
Council in Chicksands, Shefford; at Bedford Borough Council’s Customer Service 
Centre in Bedford; at the Marston Vale Forest Centre; local libraries; at public 
exhibitions and on the MPL website. Technical appendices to the PEIR will be 
available in electronic form only at the council offices, libraries and Forest Centre but 
printed copies will be available to view at the exhibitions details of which are given 
below. 
 
When the EIA process is complete and MPL submits its application for a DCO, it will 
be accompanied by an Environmental Statement. This will report on the likely 
significant environmental effects of the Project identified in the EIA and will explain the 
mitigation measures to avoid or reduce these.  
 
Public Consultation 
The views of the local community about the Project are important.  In June 2014, MPL 
carried out a non-statutory consultation process sharing its initial plans with the public 
at three exhibitions held in the local area. In October/November 2014, a 35 day period 
of statutory public consultation was carried out, with four public exhibitions held in the 
local area – at Marston Moretaine, Stewartby, Lidlington and Ampthill. During 2014, 
 
 
May 2017                                                               7 
 
MPL received and responded to comments on the proposed Project and its impact on 
the environment, local communities and the local economy.    
 
a. What are we now consulting on and when? 
In March 2015, MPL chose to put on hold its plans for the Project and notified 
interested parties by letter and information posted on the Project website that this was 
the case. Under the ownership of Drax, MPL now wishes to resume the DCO 
application process for the Project.  Accordingly, and given MPL’s open and engaged 
approach to consultation in 2014, MPL wishes to commence a second phase of 
statutory consultation commencing on 29th May 2017 (and finishing on 2nd July 2017), 
seeking views on the overall scope and impact of the Project, including the associated 
electrical connection and gas connection. Only after MPL has had regard to the 
consultation responses received will the application for a DCO for the Project be 
finalised and submitted.  
 
Responses will, in particular, be invited on: 
 
• The Project, as currently proposed, including changes since the 2014 
consultation; 
• The layout of the Generating Equipment within the Generating Equipment Site; 
• Proposed amendments to The Rookery South (Resource Recovery Facility) 
Order 2011; and 
• The findings of the preliminary assessment on the likely significant 
environmental effects of the Project during construction and operation, as set 
out in the PEIR. 
The consultation explained in this Statement will run for 35 days ending on 2nd July 
2017. Comments about the project must be received by MPL by this date.   
 
b. Who will we consult with? 
The Planning Act 2008 states that those ‘living in the vicinity of the land’ should be 
consulted.  We have discussed the scope of our consultation with Central Bedfordshire 
Council and Bedford Borough Council as the local planning authorities, and have 
 
 
May 2017                                                               8 
 
identified and agreed the Consultation Zones that form the basis of our community 
consultation.  
 
MPL will carry out its community consultation activities in two areas: a Core 
Consultation Zone (CCZ) that equates to a 5 km radius from the Power Generation 
Plant Site (Figure 1) and an Outer Consultation Zone (OCZ) that equates to a radius 
of 10 km (Figure 2). These consultation zones were chosen following feedback from 
local elected representatives and are the same as those used by MPL during 2014. 
 
The CCZ has been designed to include the main population areas in the vicinity of the 
Power Generation Plant Site that have the potential to be impacted by the Project and 
expected to have the greatest interest in the Project   The zone includes all or parts of 
the following parish council areas: Marston Moreteyne, Millbrook, Houghton Conquest, 
Ampthill, Maulden, Lidlington, Stewartby and Wootton. An information leaflet will be 
sent to households, businesses and institutions in the CCZ and the CCZ will be the 
focus of public exhibitions (see below).  
 
Figure 1 - Proposed CCZ – approx. 5 km radius from the Power Generation 
Plant Site 
 
 
May 2017                                                               9 
 
 
Figure 2 - Proposed OCZ – 10 km radius from the Power Generation Plant Site 
Communities within the OCZ will be informed about the Project (via newspaper 
advertisements, posters, media coverage and contact with parish councils and other 
relevant local organisations in the OCZ) and given the opportunity to comment on our 
plans for the Project.  The outer zone includes the main population area of Bedford.   
 
MPL does not anticipate that the communities and businesses that lie within the OCZ 
will be significantly impacted by the Project’s construction and operation although MPL 
recognises that those living and working within the OCZ may be interested in the 
Project.  Outside the two zones, there may well be others interested in MPL’s plans. 
These people will also be reached through local/regional newspaper advertising and 
media coverage (print, broadcast and social media). Feedback that is received within 
the consultation period will be considered by MPL as it finalises its proposals for the 
Project. 
 
 
 
May 2017                                                               10 
 
c.  How will we consult?  
MPL will seek and receive people’s views through a number of activities: 
 Public exhibitions will be held at Lidlington, Marston Moretaine, Stewartby and 
Ampthill within the CCZ (see the table below for locations and dates of the public 
exhibitions);  
 An information leaflet will be sent to households, businesses and institutions in the 
CCZ, and made available at local council offices, local libraries and other civic 
community venues in the area. The leaflet will also be sent to those groups that 
are defined as “hard to reach” (such as the Community Engagement Network, the 
Older People’s Reference Group and the Youth Parliament). It will give background 
on the Project, the consultation process and how individuals can engage in the 
consultation.  The leaflet will be made available at libraries and council offices in 
the OCZ; 
 Copies of the leaflet, the SoCC, a Consultation Document that will explain the 
Project as well as the proposed amendments to the Rookery South (Resource 
Recovery Facility) Order 2011, the Preliminary Environmental Information Report1 
and the Non-Technical Summary as well as other information about the Project will 
be available (in addition to the main council offices of Central Bedfordshire Council 
and Bedford Borough Council’s Customer Service Centre) at Marston Vale Forest 
Centre, Marston Moretaine, MK43 0PR which is open seven days a week between 
10.00am and 4.00pm, as well as the following libraries: 
 
Bedford Library 
Harpur Street, Bedford, MK40 1PG 
Mon/Tues/Wed/Fri  09.00 – 18.00 
Thurs                     09.00 – 13.00 
Sat                         09.00 – 17.00 
Sun                        Closed 
Ampthill Library, 
1 Dunstable Street, Ampthill, Bedford, MK45 2NL 
Mon/Wed/Fri          10.00 – 18.00 
Tues                      Closed 
Thurs                     14.00 – 18.00 
Sat                         10.00 – 13.00 
Sun                        Closed 
 
                                         
1 Note that the technical appendices to the PEIR will be provided electronically at the libraries, council offices 
and the Forest Centre. Printed copies will be available to view at the public exhibitions. 
 
 
May 2017                                                               11 
 
Wootton Library 
Lorraine Road, Wootton, MK43 9LH 
Mon/Fri                  14.00 – 18.00 
Tues                      Closed 
Wed                      10.00 – 1300 / 
                             1400 -18.30 
Thurs                     Closed 
Sat                         10.00 – 13.00 
Sun                        Closed 
 
 The information leaflet and other information about the Project can be made 
available in other formats (e.g. large print or braille) and languages upon 
reasonable request; 
 A website (www.millbrookpower.co.uk) provides information on the Project as well 
as access to documents, and provide visitors with the opportunity to ask questions 
or make comments online; 
 An e-mail address to which individuals can write to provide their feedback is 
info@millbrookpower.co.uk; 
 A Freepost mailbox to which people can send questions or comments is Freepost 
plus RTXR-ZKKX-XYLT, Millbrook Power Ltd, 49 York Place, Edinburgh, EH1 3JD; 
 MPL will also notify the local community about the Project and the consultation 
events via posters on local noticeboards, newspaper advertisements and media 
coverage;  
 In addition, MPL will contact a broad spectrum of local stakeholders. These will 
include elected representatives, local community, special interest groups (including 
those “hard to reach groups” such as the Community Engagement Network, the 
Older People’s Reference Group and the Youth Parliament), and local business 
groups. MPL will provide them with information on the Project and undertake 
briefings where appropriate. 
 
Individuals and organisations wishing to respond should include their name and an 
address where correspondence about the response can be sent. Responses may be 
made public, subject to data protection laws. 
 
 
 
May 2017                                                               12 
 
Comments made at any stage of the consultation process will be recorded and 
carefully considered by MPL as part of the process of preparing the final proposals for 
its application to the Planning Inspectorate.  
 
KEY DATES 
 
15th May 
Statement of Community Consultation published 
29th May 
Consultation period starts 
9th – 13th June 
PUBLIC EXHIBITIONS  
Friday 9th June        
1500 -1930 
Marston Moretaine Village Hall, Bedford Road, 
Marston Moretaine, MK43 0LD 
Saturday 10th June       
0900 - 1300 
Stewartby Club, Stewartby Way, Stewartby, MK43 
9NB 
Monday 12th June       
1600 - 2000 
Wingfield Club, 37 Church St, Ampthill, Bedford 
MK45 2PL 
Tuesday 13th June       
1230 - 1530 
Lidlington Village Hall, High Street, Lidlington, MK43 
0RT 
2nd July 
Consultation period closes 
December 2017 
DCO application submitted 
 
 
Contact details 
MPL welcomes questions and comments: 
Website:  
www.millbrookpower.co.uk 
Email:  
info@millbrookpower.co.uk 
Post: 
Freepost plus RTXR-ZKKX-XYLT, Millbrook Power Ltd, 49 York Place, 
Edinburgh, EH1 3JD 
Phone: 
0131 550 3380 
 
 
