Drax Power Station was originally designed and built by the CEGB to 
burn coal from the local coalfields in and around Selby.  As environmental 
legislation developed, more stringent limits were placed on the emissions 
from coal-fired power stations like Drax.  As part of the Large Combustion 
Plant Directive, limits on NOx (oxides of Nitrogen) and Sulphur Dioxide 
resulted in significant changes to the way in which power stations 
operated and led to the development of more advanced combustion and 
abatement technology. 
This technology included Flue Gas Desulphurisation or ‘FGD’.  FGD 
technology in the UK was designed to use limestone (Calcium 
Carbonate) which is ground up and dissolved to form a concentrated 
solution.  This solution is then fed into spray towers within which the flue 
gas is also passed through. 
The Sulphur Dioxide within the flue gas reacts with the calcium 
carbonate forming calcium sulphate (CaSO4) which is also known as 
gypsum and can then be recovered and collected from the FGD system.  
Gypsum as a byproduct can be subsequently be used in the construction 
industry for making plasterboard.  Since its construction, the FGD system 
has performed efficiently and effectively at the power station and has 
reduced the Sulphur Dioxide emissions which would otherwise have 
been emitted, significantly.
 
As Drax has moved toward co-firing with biomass and then full 
conversion of units 1, 2, 3 and 4, there is no need to operate the FGD 
system due to the lower levels of sulphur in biomass fuels compared with 
coal resulting in far lower emissions of sulphur dioxide.  As units 5 and 6 
which remain on coal at Drax Power Station are due to cease operating 
in March, 2021; this means that the FGD system will become redundant 
as will much of the common plant which serves the system.  For this 
reason, Drax will apply to decommission and demolish much of the FGD 
system and re-purpose elements of the materials handling infrastructure 
which remains onsite.
 
In addition to the FGD demolition, Drax is looking to expand its ability to 
receive and process biomass fuels in the form of woodchips.  The receiving 
and processing infrastructure would look to make use of existing buildings 
as well as the rail system which serves the site.  Additional conveyors 
would be required to move the biomass from the processing areas to 
storage areas prior to entering the combustion units.
 
These two aspects of Drax’s future plans form the basis of the proposed 
development for which Drax will seek planning permission from Selby 
District Council in the near future.  An interactive presentation has been 
developed to allow the public to explore the proposals in greater depth 
and to understand the areas of the site which these proposals relate to.  
In addition, Drax has generated a series of questions and answers about 
the proposed development as well as a feedback form for your comments 
and any additional questions you feel have not been answered.
Introduction - what is Drax requesting planning for?
1
Drax Power Station is the biggest renewable generator in the UK and 
the largest decarbonisation project in Europe.  Located near Selby, North 
Yorkshire, it is connected directly to the national electricity transmission 
grid, for which it provides a host of system support services.  It has a 
capacity of 3,906 megawatts (MW) and produces around 18 terawatt-
hours (TWh) of power a year, 75% using compressed wood pellets, a form 
of sustainably sourced biomass. 
Drax Power Station - history and development
2
1967
1974
1975 
1986
1988 
2003
2008
2012
 
The Selby coalfield is discovered.  The Central 
Electricity Generating Board begins building 
Drax Power Station to use its coal.
Drax Power Station starts generating electricity 
after its first 660MW unit is commissioned.   
It is the most advanced and efficient coal-fired 
power station ever built in the UK.
Drax Power Station is officially opened with 
three generators and a total generating 
capacity of just under 2,000MW.  It has the 
capability to power around two million homes.
Drax doubles in size and capacity, becoming 
the largest power station in the UK. 
Drax becomes the first power station to invest 
in retrofitted flue gas desulphurisation (FGD) 
equipment.  Once fully operational in 1995, it 
removes 90% of Sulphur Dioxide emissions, 
making it the cleanest coal-fired power station 
in the UK.
Drax Power Station starts co-firing biomass, a 
renewable alternative to coal.
Boosted-over-fire-air (BOFA) technology is 
retrofitted to all boilers, reducing nitrous oxide 
(NOX) emissions.
Drax Power Station completes a five-year 
project, worth over £100m - the largest steam 
turbine modernisation programme in UK history 
- to upgrade its high and low-pressure turbines.  
This saves around one million tonnes of carbon 
dioxide emissions, equivalent to taking 275,000 
cars off the UK’s roads.
Drax commits to transforming the business 
into a mainly biomass-fuelled generator using 
compressed wood pellets in place of coal.   
It plans to upgrade the three generating units 
that came online in the early 1970s.
The first of three power generating units 
is fully converted to use compressed wood 
pellets in April.
The second power generating unit is upgraded 
to biomass in May.
Drax completes construction of four large 
storage domes used to house the biomass 
supply.  Each dome is bigger than the Royal 
Albert Hall, can hold 75,000 tonnes of high-
density wood pellets and is explosion proof.
The third power generating unit is fully 
upgraded to biomass.
Drax acquires Opus Energy, the UK’s largest 
non-domestic energy supplier outside of the 
Big 6.  A third pellet mill - LaSalle BioEnergy in 
Louisiana - is purchased by Drax Biomass.
In April, Drax Biomass purchases a third 
pellet mill.  LaSalle BioEnergy in Louisiana is 
commissioned in November.
Drax reveals it is planning for the option to 
repower one or two remaining coal units to 
gas and build up to 200MW of battery storage 
on site.
Will Gardiner becomes Group Chief Executive, 
as Dorothy Thompson retires.
A fourth coal-fired power generating unit is 
taken offline at Drax.  Over the summer it is 
upgraded to run on biomass.
Drax submitted an application to the Planning 
Inspectorate for a Development Consent Order 
(DCO) for its Repower project.
In May, Drax announced that it is to pilot 
the first bioenergy carbon capture storage 
2013
2014 
2016
2017 
2018
2019
(BECCS) project of its kind in Europe which, 
if successful, could make the renewable 
electricity produced at its North Yorkshire 
power station carbon negative.
In December, Drax acquires Scottish Power’s 
portfolio of pumped storage, hydro and gas-
fired generation from Iberdrola.
The capacity of Drax’s power generation and 
storage assets increases to 6.5 gigawatts (GW), 
following the acquisition of Cruachan Power 
Station, Galloway and Lanark hydro schemes, 
and Damhead Creek, Rye House, Shoreham and 
Blackburn Mill power stations.
In a world first, research engineers at Drax 
Power Station capture the carbon dioxide (CO2)  
from an operational plant fuelled by 100% 
biomass feedstock.
The company records a 52% reduction in its 
carbon emissions in the first half of this year, 
compared to the same period in 2018.  It uses 
its half-year financial results to announce that 
94% of the electricity generated at Drax Power 
Station is now renewable.
Drax partners with Equinor and National Grid 
Ventures in September, launching Zero Carbon 
Humber - a partnership to build the world’s first 
zero carbon industrial cluster and decarbonise 
the North of England.
At COP25 in Madrid, CEO Will Gardiner 
announced that Drax’s ambition is to become the 
world’s first carbon negative company by 2030.
Our history
The remainder is produced using coal, a fossil fuel being phased out 
by 2025, if not before.  Drax Power Station supplies 12% of the UK’s 
renewable power.  Four of its six power generation units have been 
upgraded from burning coal to use biomass; there’s a useful link to 
Drax Businesses: 
https://www.drax.com/about-us/our-businesses/
Morello
Garth,
Barlow
Selby Road,
Camblesforth
Energy Plant,
Camblesforth
ce Survey data © Crown copyright and database right 2020
ap (and) contributors, CC-BY-SA
0
500
1,000
1,500
2,000 m
Drax 
Re-Power
The Drax Repower project gained planning consent in October 
2019.  The project consist of repowering the coal-fired units 5 and 
6 with gas.  The project includes the development of 2 Combined 
Cycle Gas Turbines (CCGT) each of 2 x 600MW with a Heat 
Recovery Steam Generator with the ability to feed steam into the 
existing steam turbines operating at Drax Power Station. 
The Development also included a battery facility of 100MW 
per unit and a new gas pipeline connection connecting into 
the National transmission system.  The documentation and 
examination of the project can be found on the planning 
inspectorate’s website.
The Drax Repower project could form part of the future Drax 
infrastructure and it is important to recognise this in other future 
Drax developments onsite.
Cumulative Developments including Drax Repower CCGT
3
Site view highlighting ‘unit X’
Site view highlighting 
both units and the 
gas infrastructure
Main features of Drax Power Station and the surrounding area 
4
Sedimentation Tanks for cooling water
Northern Cooling Towers 
Main Stack (259m tall)
Limestone and Gypsum buildings
Ash Conveyors out to Barlow Mound
Coal Stock
Absorbers 4, 5 and 6
Biomass Domes
Absorber 3
Absorbers 1 and 2
Drax Reception
Southern Cooling Towers (114m tall)
National Grid 400kV substation
Drax Boiler House (6 x 660MW units)
© OpenStreetMap (and) contributors, CC-BY-SA
±
Document Path: \\uk.wspgroup.com\central data\Projects\700692xx\70069244 - Drax Demolition TCPA\06 GIS\Mxd\Site_Location.mxd
Contains Ordnance Survey data © Crown copyright and database right 2020
@ OpenStreetMap (and) contributors, CC-BY-SA
User Name: UKRJM017  |  Date Saved: 04/06/2020 17:19:22
0
500
1,000
1,500
2,000 m
Source: Esri, DigitalGlobe, GeoEye, Earthstar Geographics,
CNES/Airbus DS, USDA, USGS, AeroGRID, IGN, and the GIS
User Community
^
1:20,000
0
2
4
6
8
10 km
1:200,000
0
0.5
1
1.5
2 km
1:50,000
Proposed Red Line Boundary and its context with the current operational power stationand its context with the current operational power station
Flue Gas Desulphurisation demolition and Biomass Handling & Receipt
5
Following the conversion of generating units 1-4 from coal to biomass, 
the Flue Gas Desulphurisation (FGD) system associated with these units 
was no longer required to operate.  This is because of the significantly 
lower sulphur content in wood pellets compared with coal resulting in 
far lower concentrations of Sulphur Dioxide emissions.  Units 5 and 6 are 
currently still capable of combusting coal, however, these units are due to 
cease operation in March 2021; at this point the FGD systems serving all 
6 units at Drax will no longer be required to operate.  For these reasons, an 
application to decommission and demolish the FGD system will be made. 
Since the power station will continue to generate electricity, it is 
important that infrastructure which has become obsolete is dealt with 
safely and does not become a potential constraint to efficient operation 
or indeed development of future projects onsite at Drax Power Station.  
In the first instance it is expected that the FGD absorbers serving units 1 
and 2 would be demolished first.  Further assessments on the remaining 
FGD systems serving units 3, 4, 5 and 6 would be made and their 
demolition would then be expected to follow on.
The materials used to construct the FGD systems will be assessed 
prior to demolition and wherever practicable, these materials will be 
segregated in order that they can be recycled at suitable facilities offsite.  
It is likely that these materials will be moved by road to these recycling 
facilities.  Some materials will not be suitable for recycling and will have to 
be disposed of, again at the appropriate facilities.  
Due to the age of the FGD components and following a preliminary 
assessment, it is believed that there are negligible amounts of asbestos 
associated with the construction materials of the FGD systems; although 
where the FGD systems interface with older elements of the Power 
Station, there is a possibility of asbestos being part of the materials 
located here hence the correct safety precautions will always be taken.  
As part of the ‘Screening Request’* made to Selby District Council, 
specific elements of the demolition activities were identified as requiring 
assessment.  These included Traffic and Transport, Waste management, 
Noise, Ecology and Flood risk.  Discussions have been ongoing with 
Selby District council as well as North Yorkshire County Council and the 
relevant officers associated with those technical disciplines. 
Biomass Handling and Receipt
 
The existing coal units at Drax Power Station are expected to largely 
cease operation in Summer 2021, although they have secured a capacity 
market contract which extends to September 2022 and they may be 
called upon to operate for short periods of time.  Biomass units are 
subsidised until 2027 and Drax aims to make biomass units commercially 
viable without subsidy.  This will require changes to the Site to store and 
process other forms of biomass.
As part of this process, discrete items of plant from the FGD common 
system are to be adapted to accommodate the reconfigured biomass 
receipt, handling, storage and onward transfer of processed biomass fuel 
to the dedicated biomass generating units at Drax.
 
The follow works will be undertaken:
•    Discrete items of plant from the FGD common system will be adapted 
to accommodate reconfigured biomass receipt, handling, storage and 
onward transfer of processed biomass fuel to the dedicated biomass 
generating units at Drax
•    The area currently used as a car park will be repurposed and will 
house the machinery to process the material, with dryers and other 
equipment to process the biomass
•    There will be a number of silos to be constructed on site, similar to the 
existing silos on site
When the coal operation ceases, a number of existing buildings (the 
limestone and gypsum storage buildings) will be re-utilised and kept as 
storage units of the biomass, both processed and unprocessed.  Within 
these buildings will be machinery to move the material potentially with a 
conveyor to move the material to the processing area and biomass units.  
The conveyors will not exceed the height of the buildings and the nature 
of use as material storage will remain the same.  Therefore amendments 
to the building should be classed as Permitted Development and not 
need planning permission.
Transport of material to the biomass handing facility will be via train using 
the current rail system in place at Drax Power Station, then transported 
on Site using existing conveyor systems.  Unloading facilities will be 
modified and upgraded within the existing FGD rail and road loading / 
unloading facilities.  However, these works should be classed as Permitted 
Development and not need planning permission.
All of the Site is within the curtilage of the operational plant and the main 
plant and associated activities (with the exception of the FGD absorber 
buildings) will remain ‘live’ throughout the implementation of the project.
*the Screening Request and the District Council’s Screening Opinion are available from the 
Selby District Council’s Planning Portal website http://public.selby.gov.uk
FGD demolition and Biomass Handling & Receipt - areas of development
6
A
C
B
FGD demolition areas
•    Absorbers 1 and 2, South Heavy/Processed Fuel Oil (PFO) tanks, Gast 
Turbine (GT) Fuel Oil Tanks, Storage Sheds (Yarrows) and Waste 
Compound/Office buildings
•   Absorber 3
•   Absorbers 4, 5 and 6
Laydown waste handling and segregation
Temporary laydown for equipment, machinery and tools, administrative 
offices/welfare, waste handling and segregation facilities.
Biomass handling and receipt facility
Discrete items of plant from the FGD common system will be adapted 
to accommodate reconfigured biomass receipt, handling, storage and 
onward transfer of processed biomass fuel to the dedicated biomass 
generating units at Drax.
•    The area currently used as a car park will be repurposed and will 
house the machinery to process the material, with dryers and other 
equipment to process the biomass
•    There will be a number of silos to be constructed on site, similar to the 
existing silos on site
Absorbers 4, 5 and 6
Absorber 3
Absorbers 1 and 2
FAQs
7
When will Drax be making the planning application?
 
An full planning application will be submitted to Selby District Council in 
Autumn 2020.
 
Who makes the decisions on the planning application?
 
Selby District Council will have the final decision on the  
planning application.
 
How do I find and where can I see the application?
 
The application will be available to view electronically on Selby District 
Council’s planning portal website.
 
Are all the activities within the power station site?
 
Yes, the entire development for which the application is being made is all 
within the curtilage of the existing power station.
 
How long before the demolition starts?
 
Demolition would commence early in 2021 subject to planning 
permission being granted.
 
Will these demolition activities be noisy or dusty?
 
Activities which do generate noise will be identified and mitigated 
wherever possible.  Drax has extensive experience of managing  and 
mitigating activities which can generate dust.
 
Will there be explosives used to demolish the structures?
 
Currently there are no plans to use explosives in the demolition activities. 
If this changes, then this will be communicated to the various Councils 
and Parish Councils.
 
Will I see any difference to the power station?
 
Yes, the proposed development results in the removal of the FGD 
buildings, these are large structures and their removal will change the 
view particularly from the west of the station.  The biomass receipt and 
handling facilities will result in additional conveyors on the Western side 
of the station interfacing with the limestone and gypsum facilities as well 
as driers and processing plant.
 
Why does Drax need more biomass fuel?
 
Drax will cease burning coal in March 2021 and has invested significantly 
in converting units 1-4.  As Drax looks to continue operating beyond 2027, 
the company will look to develop more economic biomass fuel streams 
and efficient transport, handling and processing methods to maintain a 
competitive cost of electricity generation.
 
When will Drax stop burning coal?
 
Drax is currently looking at ending coal generation in March 2021, it is 
possible that Drax units 5 and 6 could be called on to generate after 
this date, although this is likely to occasional and for a very limited 
period of time.
 
What has happened to the Repower CCGT project?
 
Drax received planning consent for the Repower project in October 
2019.  Drax is currently considering its options for new gas fired 
generating stations.
 
Will there be increased traffic on the roads/railway?
 
The material demolished on site will likely leave the power station by 
road.  The project includes a waste management and segregation area 
where materials can be correctly separated ready to be recycled.  Due to 
the reduction in activites from units 5 and 6 including the raw materials 
used in the FGD system, there will likely be an overall reduction in traffic 
movements following demolition of the FGD system.
 
How do I respond to the planning application ?
 
Selby District Council will have a specific page on their planning portal 
and comments can be made here.  There will also be the facility to 
respond directly to Drax and we will try and respond as soon as possible.
 
How long will the demolition / building take?
 
•   Application submitted to Selby District Council - mid-September, 2020
 
•    Planning Decision - December, 2020  
(assuming 13 weeks for a major planning application)
 
•    Decommissioning work and preparation across FGD units -  
Q1 2021 - Q4 2022
 
•   Demolition works commence on Absorbers 1 and 2 - Q1 2023
 
Will the work create any new jobs?
 
There will be specific and specialised demolition jobs associated with 
the FGD demolition.  The Biomass receipt and handling facilities will 
also generate a number of jobs during the construction phase.  Drax will 
advertise specific roles where relevant.
 
Who should I contact if I have more questions?
 
You can contact the Drax project team via  
https://www.drax.com/contact-us  
or you can contact Selby District Council’s Planning team.
