1
Group Tax Strategy 2020
Drax Group Tax 
Strategy 2020
2
Group Tax Strategy 2020
Our governance arrangements
Our tax strategy1 is governed by the Board of Drax Group plc 
(the Board.) The responsibility for implementing it rests with 
our Group Head of Tax who reports to the Chief Financial 
Officer. The Group CFO reports regularly to the Board and Audit 
Committee on such matters, or on an ad hoc basis if the need 
arises. The tax strategy is applied consistently to all companies 
within Drax Group.
The strategy is supported by internal control frameworks which 
govern the operations of the Drax Group, and are subject to 
regular reviews by the Group’s internal audit function. Such 
control frameworks and systems also underpin our compliance 
with the UK Senior Accounting Officer legislation.
Day to day oversight and responsibility for the management of 
the Group’s tax affairs and compliance with the tax strategy is 
delegated to the Group Head of Tax, who reports to the Audit 
Committee during the year on key aspects of compliance. The 
Group is liable to a range of taxes principally in the UK, including 
corporation taxes, VAT, payroll costs, climate change levy and 
landfill tax. To meet our compliance obligations, the Group Head 
of Tax is supported by an in-house tax team and accounting 
professionals across the wider finance function.
Our approach to tax planning and tax risk
The Group understands that tax is inherent in every commercial 
transaction. Our tax team are involved in all significant business 
activities and developments, which enables us to fully assess 
any potential tax consequences of our actions.
We seek to fully understand the reliefs and incentives that 
exist within the territories in which we operate, and utilise 
those which are available to us and are in accordance with our 
commercial strategy and activities.
As a responsible tax payer, we expect our suppliers to act 
responsibly too, and as part of our supply chain code of conduct, 
we ask that our suppliers observe similar principles set out in 
the UK Government’s Procurement Contract guidelines.
All subsidiaries of the group are subject to tax in their place of 
residence and where economic allegiance is created, ensuring 
that tax is paid in the places where resources are utilised.
We have a dormant subsidiary undertaking which is 
incorporated in a low tax jurisdiction. It is resident in the UK for 
tax purposes and would therefore pay UK tax on any profits 
arising.
The level of tax risk the Group is prepared to accept
We take a responsible approach to managing our tax affairs and 
we will always comply with applicable tax laws and regulations 
in the countries in which we operate.
Our approach to tax risk follows the same principles that 
apply to all other business risks. Maintaining our reputation 
with stakeholders and upholding high corporate social 
responsibilities have always been important to us and are key 
considerations in assessing risk. In keeping with our values 
we will always seek to do the right thing in maintaining that 
position. That assessment will inevitably also take into account 
the materiality of any item, but we do not set defined limits on 
what is acceptable/non-acceptable risk.
Instead, if we identify a material tax uncertainty, we will seek 
appropriate and proportionate external advice from reputable 
professional firms, and/or if the channel exists, we will engage 
with respective tax authorities to resolve that uncertainty.
Our tax filings and tax positions are led by commercial 
activities, and where judgement is required in relation to tax 
sensitive items in a tax return, we will only report that which 
we reasonably believe to be in accordance with tax law. 
The process we follow in such circumstances includes due 
consideration by our internal tax specialists including the 
assessment of case law; published intentions of the law setters; 
third party advisor opinion and tax authority guidance. It will 
also consider the potential impact on our ongoing relationship 
with the relevant tax authorities.
Our approach to dealings with HMRC
We actively seek open dialogue with HM Revenue & Customs 
(HMRC) in pursuit of a professional and constructive ‘no 
surprises’ working relationship. We meet regularly with HMRC as 
we see the value in working with tax authorities so they better 
understand developments in our business. It also provides the 
opportunity to share information about tax matters impacting 
our business and to agree tax positions collaboratively and 
where possible on a real-time basis. This is particularly important 
where new reliefs or incentives are introduced, or the Group’s 
activities qualify for reliefs or incentives for the first time. 
Approved by the Drax Group Plc Board of Directors on 17 July 
2020
1 Our tax strategy is published and made available on our website in accordance with Schedule 19 of Finance Act 2016.
Group Tax Strategy  
For the Financial Year ending 31 December 2020
