biomass
sustainability
Sustainably sourced forest biomass is critical to Drax achieving its purpose 
of enabling a zero carbon, lower cost energy future. It also underpins our 
ambition to use pioneering BECCS technology and be the world’s first 
carbon negative company by 2030.
Get more information about our progress towards carbon negative here.
As part of our biomass sustainability 
commitments, we’ve recently created a new 
responsible sourcing policy. 
The policy outlines the benefits of active 
forest management, leading to greater carbon 
absorption and sequestration,  and an increase 
in surplus forest growth and wood supply.
Through healthy markets for wood products, 
we can ensure forests are replanted and 
maintained, storing more carbon year on year. 
We monitor each step of our supply chain to 
make sure that our suppliers are meeting our 
sustainability requirements.
Driving our commitments are a three-fold ambition to deliver a positive impact for the climate and 
environment, and for the communities where we operate. 
Please see our appendix for detailed explanations about our Responsible Sourcing.
We’ll reduce CO2 emissions by maximising carbon benefits. This entails following the 
latest science on which feedstocks have the best carbon outcome, and avoiding the 
feedstocks which don’t.
We’ll protect the natural environment by following best practice of biodiversity 
protection and avoiding deforestation or degradation of the forest resource.
We’ll support people and communities in the areas we source from
We’ll invest in research, outreach and intervention. Guided by science, we’ve 
established an Independent Advisory Board on Sustainable Biomass (IAB) and are 
building a robust evidence base through certification schemes and catchment 
area analyses. 
Scientists, civil society and sustainability leaders established the IAB to provide impartial advice on 
sustainable biomass and its role in Drax’s transition to net zero emissions.
The Board will feedback with findings and recommendations on our sustainable biomass approach 
and performance. Drax’s use of the independent Sustainable Biomass Program standard and the work 
of Forest Research (including their report on the carbon impacts of biomass) support this approach.
Drax is also producing reports in a series of pellet plant catchment area analyses of forest management 
and market trends. These reports look at the impact of biomass demand and whether it can help to 
maintain healthy forests in the landscape. They also highlight the positive role that the pellet plants 
supplying renewable fuel to Drax Power Station have in the region, supporting the health of forests and 
local economies.
Read the full reports: 
• 
Amite BioEnergy 
• 
Morehouse, Louisiana
To illustrate the bioenergy impacts 
on forestry markets, we’ve written 
short summaries of the analysis 
and conclusions for Amite 
BioEnergy and Morehouse.
We’ll publish future reports on our 
sustainability page.
For more information about our wood pellet supply chain, please visit ForestScope. This was updated in 
January 2020 with 2018 fibre sourcing data, including sawmill residues.
