 
 
 
Dr Dan Poulter MP 
House of Commons 
Westminster 
London SW1A 0AA 
BY EMAIL 
19 June 2015 
Dear Dr Poulter 
Re: Progress Power Ltd – proposed power station near Eye 
Since the new Parliament returned, I have endeavoured to contact you with regard to our project (by 
phone and email) but without success.  I wanted to provide you with an update regarding the precise 
details of the final scheme submitted to the Planning Inspector for consideration at the close of 
Examination in January 2015, following its refinement during the Examination phase. The Inspector’s 
report is now with Amber Rudd, Secretary of State for Energy & Climate Change.   
Given your comments to the media last week and the points you made in your 18th May 2015 letter 
to the Secretary of State, we are concerned that you have not acknowledged the extent of the changes 
we have made to the project as our plans have evolved through the Examination phase and in 
response to our local consultations.   
These changes, primarily to reduce the environmental impacts of the power station and the 
substation, have been made in consultation with both Suffolk County Council (SCC) and Mid Suffolk 
District Council (MSDC), and have sought to address many of the comments received from the local 
parish councils as well as residents.  The outcomes of our pre-application consultations were 
documented in our application to the Planning Inspectorate in March 2014, and the further 
refinements to the proposed development are reflected in our submissions to the Planning 
Inspectorate during the Examination phase.  
You may recall that after your comments at our very first meeting, we agreed to underground the 
electrical connection to avoid the need for new overhead transmission towers and lines; it was an 
issue of particular concern to you and other people. However, as a result of Progress Power agreeing 
to “go underground”, the substation had to be located close to the existing National Grid transmission 
network.  This important point has been made and the rationale explained on numerous occasions 
including during meetings with yourself. 
Please be assured that we have proposed extensive landscaping plans to screen both the substation 
and the power station; this was done in consultation, and with the agreement of SCC and MSDC.  It 
would be worthwhile you re-visiting National Grid’s Gas Compressor Station east of Eye Airfield to see 
how they have landscaped and successfully screened it.  The Progress Power landscaping plans are 
available on-line (via the Planning Inspectorate website) but we would be more than happy to show 
them to you if we were to meet. 
Further, are you aware that the existence of the National Grid Gas Compressor Station restricts, on 
health and safety grounds, the use of land in the near vicinity of it?  It’s just one of the reasons why 
MSDC considered the airfield as being appropriate for a power station (they had originally envisaged 
an Energy from Waste facility).   
We are conscious that some members of the local community are not happy with the location of the 
substation.  We were, however, surprised by your comment last week that it would be seen from 
 
 
 
Norwich, a distance of 40 km.  Given its tallest component is 12.5 m, the substation would not be seen 
from the centres of Diss or Eye, let alone Norwich, due to existing mature woodland and the 
surrounding countryside – this is the case even without our extensive landscape plans.  It will be 
dwarfed by the existing transmission towers (approximately 48 m), the nearby wind turbines (130 m 
to tip) and the chicken litter stack on Eye Airfield (40 m).   
With regard to your concerns about the access road to the substation being positioned on a fast bend, 
you should be aware that we have been in extensive discussions with the Suffolk Highways Authority, 
who have agreed that our plans are safe.  Indeed, we undertook a Road Safety Audit to confirm that 
our access plans are safe. Furthermore, our plans include a road junction off the A140 during 
construction only, thus avoiding the need for HGV traffic to go through Yaxley and Mellis - please note 
that this change was as a direct result of feedback from the local residents of Yaxley and Mellis during 
the consultation phase prior to submitting the application for examination. In respect of local concerns 
about traffic and transport, we have also agreed to remove the aforementioned junction during 
operations (at the request of the Suffolk Highways Authority) and committed £86,000 for road safety 
measures at other existing road junctions to improve the safety of the A140. The contribution towards 
road safety measures is just one element of the commitments we have made in our s106 agreement 
with MSDC and SCC. 
You should also be aware that we have submitted three Draft DCO applications for the Secretary of 
State to consider. The third of these includes a GIS substation option which is approximately 1/3 the 
size of the AIS substation, something which you made clear in our discussions you were keen for us to 
include in the application. 
From the outset, we have sought to work closely with the local councils (indeed MSDC actively 
encouraged us to bring forward our plans in 2013) and we have engaged with the local community 
and their elected representatives. We accept that, despite the various changes that we have made to 
our project, there is still some opposition to it.  However, at all times we have been guided by local 
and national planning policy and the Government’s energy policy.  
Our scheme will be the one of the smallest (and cleanest) gas-fired power stations to be built in the 
UK, and will provide essential back–up to intermittent wind and solar power, thereby bolstering the 
country’s energy security.  At a time when the new nuclear-build programme is uncertain and coal 
fired power stations are closing, the project’s contribution to the country (as well as the regional 
economy) should not be underestimated. 
If you would like to discuss these or any other points (via phone or face-to-face), please let me know.   
 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
Chris McKerrow 
Project Director 
 
