 
 
05 May 2021 
Sir John Beddington  
Chair, Drax Independent Advisory Board on Sustainable Biomass 
 
 
Dear John,  
 
Thank you for your letter of 16th February, outlining Drax’s Independent Advisory Board’s (IAB) 
findings and recommendations from your last four meetings – in September, November, December 
and February.  Thank you for the continued work of the board, and for the advice and 
recommendations that you present after each meeting – which we highly value. 
I am very pleased to hear your recommendations and welcome your scrutiny on the climate impacts 
of Drax’s policy, Drax’s impact on biodiversity in South East US forests, the complexities of carbon 
accounting, and lastly the new Healthy Forest Landscapes (HFL) programme.  
We agree that Drax’s impact on biodiversity in areas we source from is a topic that needs continued 
attention and further study.  The commissioned study by Pilio was a great start to understanding our 
impact on biodiversity in areas we source from in the South East US, demonstrating that our impact is 
neutral to positive. However, I agree that more studies are needed in all our geographies as well as 
studies on the impact of the removal of course woody debris. We will keep this topic central to our 
assessment work on the ground in our forests in various locations. 
I am pleased that we were able to listen to Ecometrica’s carbon accounting review in December and 
have a discussion with you on this complex topic, and that our colleagues working in this area were 
able to present on our ongoing understanding and documentation of carbon flows that affect our 
sourcing areas. We are glad to hear that your view is that we employ best practice at Drax. We also 
recognise that clearer messaging surrounding carbon accounting, and better communicating the 
complexity surrounding it is needed.  
We also very much value your insight on our new HFL programme – your views on how to improve 
the data, and how to best present and effectively communicate the data to our wide and varied 
audience.  
We are committed to ensuring sustainable operations in our forests, and to ensuring that our 
operations have a positive impact on the environment, biodiversity, and the communities in which we 
operate. We also believe it is very important to demonstrate, with data from the ground, how trends 
in forest carbon and forest cover are evolving in relation to our continued management of these 
forests – something which we believe the HFL programme can demonstrate.  We take onboard your 
recommendations – to improve communication of each HFL metric, and to look more deeply into the 
Canadian forests and assess our impact there. 
I am very glad I could attend the last meeting on 9th of February to speak to you and your colleagues 
specifically about our proposed acquisition of Pinnacle Renewable Energy in Canada, which is 
transformational for our business and operations. Thank you for your questions. We are very keen to 
hear your input and views on the acquisition and our future operations in Canada.  We are aware that 
the forests of Alberta and British Columbia present a different landscape compared to our other 
sourcing areas, including complexities that will be new to us as owners of pellet mills in these areas. I 
would therefore welcome the IAB’s advice on how we can best achieve good outcomes in these 
sourcing areas, including practical sourcing recommendations you may believe appropriate.   
 
 
 
I would welcome a deeper conversation about our proposed acquisition and expanded operations in 
the forests of Alberta and British Columbia at our next meeting in May.  
As ever, I thank you for your and your colleagues’ work on the IAB – in your scrutiny of, 
recommendations, and advice to us on our practices and operations – to make sure that we benefit 
the environment and contribute to climate change mitigation efforts to the highest possible standard 
and ability. 
My colleagues and I look forward to continuing our close and constructive collaboration with you in 
our remaining five meetings this year.  
Yours sincerely, 
 
 
Will Gardiner 
Group Chief Executive  
 
 
