Appendix 8.13
Preliminary Ecological Appraisal 2014
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Abergelli 
Abergelli Power Project 
 
Preliminary Ecological Appraisal 
 
 
 
Issuing office 
 
Wyastone Business Park | Wyastone Leys | Monmouth | NP25 3SR 
T: 01600 891576 | W: www.bsg-ecology.com | E: info@bsg-ecology.com 
  
 
Client 
Stag Energy 
Job 
Abergelli Power Project 
Report title 
Preliminary Ecological Appraisal 
Draft version/final 
FINAL 
File reference 
7399_R_Phase 1_non-confidential_APPR(4)_180614 
 
 
Name 
Position 
Date 
Originated 
Anna Gundrey 
Senior Ecologist 
05 March 2014 
Reviewed 
Matthew Hobbs 
Principal Ecologist 
06 March 2014 
Reviewed 
Jim Fairclough 
Principal Ecologist 
07 March 2014 
Approved for 
issue to client 
Matthew Hobbs 
Principal Ecologist 
07 March 2014 
Issued to client 
Matthew Hobbs 
Principal Ecologist 
07 March 2014 
Amended 
Matthew Hobbs 
Principal Ecologist 
20 March 2014 
2nd Issue to client 
Matthew Hobbs 
Principal Ecologist 
20 March 2014 
Updated 
Anna Gundrey 
Senior Ecologist 
28 May 2014 
3rd Issue to client 
Matthew Hobbs 
Principal Ecologist 
02 June 2014 
Updated 
Anna Gundrey 
Senior Ecologist 
09 June 2014 
4th Issue to client 
Matthew Hobbs 
Principal Ecologist 
10 June 2014 
Amended 
Matthew Hobbs 
Principal Ecologist 
18 June 2014 
5th issue to client 
Matthew Hobbs 
Principal Ecologist 
18 June 2014 
Disclaimer 
This report is issued to the client for their sole use and for the intended purpose as stated in the agreement between the 
client and BSG Ecology under which this work was completed, or else as set out within this report. This report may not 
be relied upon by any other party without the express written agreement of BSG Ecology. The use of this report by 
unauthorised third parties is at their own risk and BSG Ecology accepts no duty of care to any such third party. 
BSG Ecology has exercised due care in preparing this report. It has not, unless specifically stated, independently verified 
information provided by others. No other warranty, express or implied, is made in relation to the content of this report and 
BSG Ecology assumes no liability for any loss resulting from errors, omissions or misrepresentation made by others. 
 
 
Any recommendation, opinion or finding stated in this report is based on circumstances and facts as they existed at the 
time that BSG Ecology performed the work. 
Nothing in this report constitutes legal opinion. If legal opinion is required the advice of a qualified legal professional 
should 
be 
secured.
Contents 
1 
Summary ....................................................................................................................................................... 1 
2 
Introduction .................................................................................................................................................... 3 
3 
Methods ......................................................................................................................................................... 4 
4 
Results and Interpretation ............................................................................................................................. 6 
5 
Recommendations....................................................................................................................................... 17 
6 
References .................................................................................................................................................. 22 
Appendix 1: Target Notes ................................................................................................................................... 23 
Appendix 2: Photographs ................................................................................................................................... 27 
Appendix 3:  Bat Tree Survey Results ................................................................................................................ 35 
Appendix 4: HSI Results ..................................................................................................................................... 37 
Appendix 5: Bird species recorded during Phase 1 survey. ............................................................................... 39 
Appendix 6: Summaries of Relevant Legislation, Policy and Other Instruments ............................................... 40 
  
 
Derbyshire, Oxford, Newcastle-upon-Tyne, Monmouth,  Swansea   |   BSG Ecology is a trading name of Baker Shepherd Gillespie LLP  
Registered  in:   England  and  Wales  |   No. OC328772   |  Registered  address:  Wyastone  Business  Park,  Monmouth,  NP25  3SR 
 
 
Abergelli Power Project - Phase 1 survey report 
 
1 
18/06/2014 
1 
Summary 
1.1 
Abergelli Power Limited (APL) is promoting a new Power Generation Plant on agricultural land 
within Abergelli Farm north of Swansea in the City and County of Swansea (approximately at 
National Grid Reference 265284, 201431).   
1.2 
The Power Generation Plant would operate as a Simple Cycle Gas Turbine (SCGT) peaking plant 
and would be designed to provide an electrical capacity of up to 299 Megawatts (MW).  It would be 
fuelled by natural gas, supplied by a new underground gas pipeline connecting the Power 
Generation Plant to the existing National Grid Gas (NGG) National Transmission System (NTS).   
1.3 
BSG Ecology has been appointed as the ecological consultant to undertake a preliminary 
ecological appraisal, which includes a desk study and Extended Phase 1 Habitat Survey. This 
preliminary survey will inform the subsequent need for further, targeted surveys of protected and 
otherwise notable species and habitats.  
1.4 
The preliminary ecological survey has identified two European designated sites within 10km, five 
statutory designated sites for ecology (four Sites of Special Scientific Interest (SSSIs) and one 
Local Nature Reserve (LNR)) within 5km, and twenty-three non-statutory designated Sites of 
Importance for Nature Conservation (SINC) within 2km of the Survey Site boundary. Three of the 
SINCs are partially within the Survey Site boundary, and a further two are adjacent. Much of the 
woodland on the Survey Site is also designated as Ancient Woodland. Direct impacts on SINCs 
and Ancient Woodland within and close to the Survey Site boundary could occur, depending on the 
final layout of the Power Generation Plant.     
1.5 
Three Section 421 habitats (‘lowland mixed deciduous woodland’, ‘purple moor-grass and rush 
pasture’ and ‘ponds’) are present within the Survey Site.  
1.6 
There is habitat in the Survey Site that has the potential to support European Protected Species 
(EPS) including bats, great crested newts Triturus cristatus, dormouse Muscardinus avellanarius 
and otter Lutra lutra.  There are also habitats suitable for nationally protected species such as 
reptiles and water voles Arvicola amphibius. Information on badgers is contained in a confidential 
version of this report.   
1.7 
The following surveys are recommended to inform the ecology baseline chapter of the 
Environmental Statement and full details are provided in Section 5: 
 
Extended Phase 1 habitat survey of inaccessible land at the south-west end of the Survey Site 
and new land that has been identified since the survey was carried out – an access route to 
the west of the site. 
 
A National Vegetation Classification (NVC) botanical survey of marshy grassland and 
woodland that may be affected within the Survey Site as well as any areas identified as SINCs 
within or adjacent to the site; 
 
A survey of invasive plant species within the Survey Site; 
 
Roped access survey of trees identified as having potential to support bat roosts and internal 
and external building inspections, where trees/buildings may be affected directly or indirectly 
by the Project. Inspection surveys should include surveys for barn owls. Subsequent dusk 
emergence / dawn return to roost surveys should be undertaken if roosting potential or 
evidence of roosting is found; 
 
Bat activity surveys including walked transects and automated bat detector surveys; 
 
A survey for otter and water vole along water courses within the Survey Site; 
 
Dormouse surveys in areas of woodland and scrub within the Survey Site; 
                                                      
1 Species referred to within The Natural Environment and Rural Communities Act 2006 (NERC 2006) as species of 
principal importance for the conservation of biodiversity in Wales which are listed on the Natural Resources Wales 
website. The Welsh Assembly Government must take steps to “further the conservation” of these species under Section 
42 of the NERC ACT 2006. 
 
Abergelli Power Project - Phase 1 survey report 
 
2 
18/06/2014 
 
Great-crested newt surveys of all accessible ponds up to 250m from the Survey Site; 
 
Reptile surveys on suitable habitat across the Survey Site; 
 
A walkover breeding bird survey of all of the Survey Site plus a 50m buffer; 
 
Invertebrate surveys of woodland and marshy grassland for Lepidoptera (notably moths and 
marsh fritillary butterfly Euphydryas aurinia) and Coleoptera (beetles) within the Survey Site; 
and 
 
Invertebrate surveys of freshwater habitats (ponds and watercourses) may be needed where 
these habitats are to be affected within the Survey Site. 
 
Abergelli Power Project - Phase 1 survey report 
 
3 
18/06/2014 
2 
Introduction 
Site Description 
2.1 
The Phase 1 Habitat Survey Site (hereafter referred to as the ‘Survey Site’), in which the Project 
would be located, consists of approximately 150 ha of pastoral farmland primarily grazed by 
horses. The Survey Site is contained within the red line boundary shown in Figure 1 and is centred 
at National Grid Reference 265284, 201431. The nearest town is Felindre, which is located 
approximately 2 km to the north of the Survey Site, with Swansea approximately 5 km to the south.   
2.2 
The Survey Site is largely agriculturally improved pasture with several areas of marshy grassland, 
particularly in the north, south and north-western ends of the Survey Site. The fields are bounded 
by fences, running along the line of defunct hedgerows, and often accompanied by ditches. There 
is a block of broadleaved woodland on the eastern boundary of the Survey Site and areas around 
the marshy grassland to the west of the Survey Site, and around Felindre Gas Compressor Station 
and the two National Grid 400kV electrical substations that lie at the south-west end of the Survey 
Site.  The habitats in the surrounding landscape are similar to those within the Survey Site 
boundary – a mixture of improved and marshy grassland interspersed with occasional patches of 
woodland. 
2.3 
The Survey Site boundary is shown on Figures 1a, 1b, 2a and 2b (photographs of the Survey Site 
are found in Appendix 2).  
Description of Project 
2.4 
APL is promoting a new Power Generation Plant within Abergelli Farm.  The Power Generation 
Plant would operate as a Simple Cycle Gas Turbine (SCGT) peaking plant and would be designed 
to provide an electrical capacity of up to 299 Megawatts (MW).  It would be fuelled by natural gas, 
supplied by a new underground gas pipeline connecting the thermal generating station to the 
existing National Grid Gas (NGG) National Transmission System (NTS).   
2.5 
BSG Ecology has been appointed as the ecological consultant to undertake a preliminary ecology 
survey, which includes a desk study and Extended Phase 1 Habitat Survey. This preliminary 
ecological survey will inform the subsequent need for further, targeted surveys of protected and 
otherwise notable species and habitats. These baseline surveys will be included in an appendix to 
an ecology chapter of an Environmental Statement, which is presently intended for submission, as 
an integral part of the Development Consent Order (DCO) Application. 
Aims of Study 
2.6 
BSG Ecology was commissioned to undertake a preliminary ecological appraisal of the Survey Site 
within which the Project would be located. The main aims of this report are to: 
 
present the findings of the desk study and site surveys; 
 
assess the potential for the Survey Site to support protected or otherwise notable species; 
 
set out the legislative and/or policy protection afforded to any habitats present or any species 
potentially associated with the Survey Site; and 
 
provide recommendations for any further surveys necessary to inform a subsequent ecology 
chapter for an Environmental Statement for the site. 
 
 
Abergelli Power Project - Phase 1 survey report 
 
4 
18/06/2014 
3 
Methods 
Desk Study 
3.1 
Existing ecological information for the Survey Site and its surrounding area was requested from the 
South East Wales Biodiversity Records Centre (SEWBReC).  Information on European designated 
sites was requested from within 10 km with information on national statutory designated sites was 
requested covering the Survey Site and land up to 5 km from the Survey Site boundary and 
information regarding non-statutory designated sites and records of protected2 or notable species 
(particularly those identified as priority or Section 42 species and/or of local conservation 
importance or LBAP3 species) was requested covering the Survey Site and land up to 2 km from 
the Survey Site boundary. Information on locally designated Sites of Importance for Nature 
Conservation (SINC) within 2 km of the Survey Site boundary was requested from the Swansea 
Council Ecologist. In addition, on-line resources including the Multi Agency Geographic Information 
for the Countryside (MAGIC, www.magic.gov.uk) website and aerial photography of the area were 
also reviewed. 
Field Survey 
Phase 1 Habitat Survey 
3.2 
The initial field survey was undertaken by Anna Gundrey MCIEEM and Matthew Hobbs MCIEEM 
on 24 February 2014. The Project Site boundary and therefore the Survey Site was subsequently 
extended after a design review, and a second field survey was carried out by Stephanie Boocock 
MCIEEM on 14 April 2014 of the additional area. Habitats within the Survey Site, and up to at least 
50m from the Survey Site boundary, were identified and described following standard JNCC Phase 
1 Habitat Survey methodology as detailed in the Phase 1 Habitat Survey Handbook (JNCC, 2010). 
This uses a system of codes to describe different habitat types based on the dominant vegetation 
present, which are recorded by means of habitat maps and target notes. All plant names in this 
report follow The New Flora of British Isles (Stace, 2010). 
3.3 
The survey was extended to give particular consideration to the potential of the habitats present to 
support protected species or species of local conservation importance; recorded as incidental 
information as part of the target notes. 
3.4 
It should be noted that species lists derived from the target notes are not necessarily an exhaustive 
inventory of all species occurring at a site.  They are intended to illustrate the character of habitats 
present, general species richness of a particular area, and draw attention to any species that may 
be considered uncommon or unusual.   
3.5 
Weather conditions during both surveys were clear and largely dry. 
Habitat Suitability Index 
3.6 
During the February field survey a Habitat Suitability Index (HSI) assessment (Oldham et al., 2000) 
of all ponds/water bodies within a 500m radius of the Survey Site (where access was possible) was 
undertaken. In the case of this survey, a wider buffer than 250m was used because of the high 
number of ponds within 250 and 500m of the Survey Site. The additional information collected is 
useful to provide context of how ponds within or in proximity to the Survey Site may connect with 
habitat available for newts in the surrounding landscape, and also to give greater confidence to the 
assessment carried out on each pond.  
3.7 
Information on the physical features and characteristics of each pond were collected in order to 
allow a great crested newt Habitat Suitability Index (HSI) score to be derived for each pond by 
applying the scoring system developed by the Herpetological Conservation Trust (HCT, 2008). The 
suitability index is calculated by allocating scores to features associated with each pond; these 
                                                      
2 Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981 Schedules 1, 5 & 8; Conservation of Habitats and Species Regulations 2010; 
Protection of Badgers Act. 
3 Those listed under Local Biodiversity Action Plans for Swansea. 
 
Abergelli Power Project - Phase 1 survey report 
 
5 
18/06/2014 
include features such as size, quality of surrounding habitat and presence of fish. These scores are 
then used to calculate the overall HSI for each pond as a number between 0 and 1, with 0 being 
the least suitable and 1 being the most suitable. The HSI score allows each pond to be placed in 
one of five categories defining its suitability for great crested newts as follows: 
 
<0.5  
 
= poor 
 
0.5 – 0.59 
= below average 
 
0.6 – 0.69 
= average 
 
0.7 – 0.79 
= good 
 
>0.8 
 
= excellent 
Tree Assessment 
3.8 
All the trees on site were examined for their potential to support roosting bats, graded according to 
the scale provided in the Bat Conservation Trust survey guidelines (Hundt, 2012), and summarised 
in Table 1 below.  Those that were rated Category 2 and above were described and their locations 
recorded on a GPS. 
 
Table 1: Bat tree survey categories 
Category 
Description 
1* 
Tree with multiple highly suitable features for bats.  Potential to support large numbers of bats. 
1 
Tree with some definite suitable features and potential to support low numbers of bats. 
2 
No obvious potential although tree is of a size and age that elevated surveys may reveal suitable 
cracks and crevices. Or, tree supports some limited features for bats. 
3 
No potential 
Limitations to Methods 
3.9 
Although records secured through the desk study and supplied by third parties provide useful 
background information for initial ecological assessment, they often comprise individual records 
supplied by members of the public or are the result of ad hoc surveys. The data trawl information 
can therefore help to inform the likelihood of a particular species being present in the area, but 
should not be relied upon to definitively determine presence or absence of individual species. 
3.10 
The first site visit was undertaken at a sub-optimal time of year (February) for a survey of this type, 
being outside the main growing season, when the greatest variety of plants is in evidence.  
However the habitats on site are readily identifiable to an experienced botanist, and those that 
require further survey work in order to confirm their quality have been identified.  In addition, a 
robust assessment of the Survey Site’s potential to support protected species could also be made. 
Therefore, it is considered that the timing of the survey in this instance is not a significant constraint 
with regard to the findings of this assessment. The second survey on the 14th April was undertaken 
at a time when most plant species are evident and was less constrained in this respect. 
3.11 
Most parts of the Survey Site were accessed and surveyed. Some of the ponds outside of the 
Survey Site could not be accessed (see Figures 2a and 2b) as they were located on private land 
and access was denied to a number of them. Ponds within 250-500m of the Survey Site, where 
accessible, were inspected to gather contextual information and enough have been inspected to 
allow suitable additional background information to be gathered.  
3.12 
The extreme south-west end of the Survey Site could not be surveyed as the land here is in a 
separate ownership and access had not been granted by land owners at the time of survey.  The 
route of the access track (that leads west to the B4489) was added to the Survey Site boundary 
after the April Phase 1 visit, so this was also not included in the survey. A recommendation has 
been made below to survey the remainder of the Survey Site as soon as access has been granted. 
 
Abergelli Power Project - Phase 1 survey report 
 
6 
18/06/2014 
4 
Results and Interpretation 
4.1 
In this section the results of the desk study and fieldwork are brought together. The implications of 
these results are then considered.  
4.2 
Figures 1a (the northern part of the site) and 1b (the southern part of the site) illustrate the results 
of the extended Phase 1 habitat survey.  Numbers on the map and in the text below can be cross-
referenced with Target Notes (TN) in Appendix 1.  Photographs of the site can be found in 
Appendix 2.  Figures 2a (the northern part of the site) and 2b (the southern part of the site) 
illustrate areas of the site that support, or have the potential to support, protected species. 
Designated Sites 
Statutory 
4.3 
There are two Special Areas of Conservation (SAC)4 designated under the EC Habitats Directive 
within 10km. One of these, Camarthen Bay and Estuaries SAC, has has been afforded multiple 
designations and is referred to under the umbrella term European Marine Site (EMS)5 which 
comprises the SAC, and is also split into two Special Protection Areas (SPA)6 and two Ramsar 
Wetlands of International Importance (Ramsar)7 the details of each designation are provided 
below. There are also four statutory protected Sites of Special Scientific Interest (SSSI) and one 
Local Nature Reserve (LNR) within 5km of the Survey Site. These are described in Table 2 below. 
Table 2: Statutory designated sites within 5km of the Survey Site and European sites within 
10 km. 
Site name 
Grid ref. 
Distance 
and 
direction 
from site 
Reason for Designation 
Carmarthen 
Bay and 
Estuaries SAC 
 
SS357991 
7.2km W 
Annex I habitats (primary reason for selection) – ‘Sandbanks which are 
slightly covered by sea water all the time’, ‘Estuaries’, ‘Mudflats and 
sandflats not covered by water at low tide’, ‘Large shallow inlets and 
bays’, ‘Salicornia and other annuals colonising mud and sand’, ‘Atlantic 
salt meadows. Annex II species (primary reason for selection) – twaite 
shad Allosa fallax. Annex II species (qualifying feature) – sea lamprey 
Petromyzon marinus, river lamprey Lampetra fluviatilis, allis shad Alos 
alosa and otter. 
Burry Inlet SPA 
and Ramsar 
(within the 
boundary of 
the SAC 
above) 
 
9.7km WSW 
This area is designated as a SPA and Ramsar site due to its 
internationally important assemblage of wintering birds with qualifying 
populations of wintering oystercatcher Haematopus ostralegus,and 
northern pintail Anas acuta (SPA) and additionally of common redshank 
Tringa totanus, and red knot Calidris canuta (Ramsar). 
Crymlyn Bog 
SAC and 
Ramsar 
(contiguous 
boundaries) 
 
SS694947 
7.3 km SE 
Annex I habitats (primary reason for selection) – ‘Transition mires and 
quaking bogs’, ‘Calcareous fens with Cladium mariscus and species of 
the Caricion davallianae’ ’, Annex I habitats (qualifying feature) – Alluvial 
forests with Alnus glutinosa and Fraxinus excelsior (Alno-Padion,Alnion 
incanae, Salicion albae). 
The site is selected as Ramsar as it supports a substantial population of 
the nationally-rare slender cotton-grass Eriophorum gracile, and  
                                                      
4 Special Areas of Conservation (SACs) are strictly protected sites designated under the EC Habitats Directive. Article 3 
of the Habitats Directive requires the establishment of a European network of important high-quality conservation sites 
that will make a significant contribution to conserving the 189 habitat types and 788 species identified in Annexes I and II 
of the Directive (as amended). 
5 The term 'European Marine Site' (EMS) (as defined by the Habitats Regulations) refers to those marine areas that area 
both Special Areas of Conservation (SACs) and Special Protection Areas (SPAs). For management advice see 
http://www.severnestuary.net/asera/docs/Regulation%2033%20Advice.pdf 
6 Special Protection Areas (SPAs) are strictly protected sites classified in accordance with Article 4 of the EC Birds 
Directive, which came into force in April 1979. They are classified for rare and vulnerable birds (as listed on Annex I of 
the Directive), and for regularly occurring migratory species. 
7 Ramsar sites are wetlands of international importance designated under the Ramsar Convention. 
 
Abergelli Power Project - Phase 1 survey report 
 
7 
18/06/2014 
a rich invertebrate fauna including many rare and highly localised 
species.  The site also suports 199 vascular plant species including 17 
regionally-uncommon and one nationally rare species. 
Glais Moraine 
SSSI 
SN696005 
4 km E 
Designated for its geological interest. 
Nant Y Crimp  
SSSI 
SN623015 
2.5 km W 
Designated for its wet pastures, species-rich neutral grasslands and 
semi-natural woodland, which are host to several uncommon plant 
species. In addition, there is a colony of marsh fritillary butterfly on site. 
Penllergaer 
Railway 
Cutting SSSI 
SS622998 
2.8 km NW 
Designated for its geological interest.  
Penplas 
Grasslands 
SSSI 
SS634979 
3.2 km NW 
Designated for the eight different grassland types that have been 
identified on the site, including three types of purple moor-grass pasture, 
two of rush pasture, fen meadow, acid grassland and damp heath.  
Notable plant species recorded at Penplas include petty whin Genista 
anglica and royal fern Osmunda regalis. 
Cadle Heath 
LNR 
SS627966 
4.5 km NW 
Designated for wet heath, species-rich grassland, ponds, scrub and 
woodland. There is also a significant colony of wood bitter vetch. 
4.4 
Glais Moraine SSSI and Penllergaer Railway Cutting SSSI are both designated for their geological 
interest, which is unlikely to be impacted upon by the Project and will therefore not be considered 
further in this report. 
 Non-statutory 
4.5 
There are 23 Sites of Interest for Nature Conservation (SINC) within 2 km of the Survey Site. 
These are described in Table 3 below and their locations are shown on Figure 3.  Three SINCs lie 
partially within the Survey Site boundary. Rhyd-Y-Pandy Valley Grasslands is a large SINC, which 
includes three fields that lie within the north-east corner of the Survey Site.  Warn Garn Wen is also 
an extensive SINC which includes the marshy grassland that lies within the western boundary of 
the Survey Site.  Llety Morfil SINC is a collection of three areas of ancient woodland  with some 
areas of marshy grassland, that includes the woodland on the eastern boundary of the site and at 
the south-west end of the Survey Site.   
4.6 
There are two SINCs located adjacent to the boundary.  Rhos Fawr SINC is a block of land 
immediately to the north of the Site boundary, and Felindre Grasslands SINC lies adjacent to the 
southern tip of the proposed access route.   
4.7 
Most of the woodland within the Survey Site is also designated as Ancient Woodland (See Figure 
3). 
Table 3: Non-statutory sites within 2km of the Survey Site.  Citations for some of the SINC 
sites are not yet available and will be added when they are. 
Site name 
Grid ref. 
Distance and 
direction from 
site  
Site Description 
Waun Garn Wen 
SN645012 
Onsite 
Purple moor grass and rush pasture, wet woodland, scrub 
and watercourse habitats.  Section 42 invertebrates and birds 
recorded.  
Llety –Morfil 
SN644006 
Onsite 
Wet and ancient semi-natural woodland, purple moor grass 
and rush pasture, and scrub habitats.  Section 42 
invertebrate species recorded. 
 
Abergelli Power Project - Phase 1 survey report 
 
8 
18/06/2014 
Rhyd-Y-Pandy Valley 
and Grasslands 
SN661022 
Onsite 
Wet woodland and woodland with assemblage of ancient 
woodland indicator species, scrub, purple moor grass and 
rush pasture, lowland meadow, neutral grassland, scrub, 
reed bed and water course habitats.  Section 42 bird species 
recorded.  
Rhos Fawr 
SN652029 
Adjacent N 
Woodland containing assemblage of ancient woodland 
indicator species, scrub, purple moor grass and rush pasture, 
neutral grassland habitats.  Section 42 bird species recorded. 
Felindre Grasslands 
SS638998 
Adjacent SW 
Wet woodland and lowland mixed deciduous woodland, 
purple moor grass and rush pasture and scrub habitats.  
Section 42 birds and invertebrates recorded. 
Llangefelach 
Common SINC 
SS648994 
1.3 km SW 
Common cotton grass Eriophorum angustifolium, ragged-
robin Lychnis flos-cuculi , western gorse Ulex gallii, various 
orchid species, tormentil Potentilla erecta and whorled 
caraway Carum verticillatum are present along with adder, 
common lizard and slow worm. 
Lower and Upper Lliw 
Reservoirs SINC 
SN653035 
1 km N 
The lower and upper Lliw reservoirs are surrounded by a 
mosaic of habitats including bracken, scrub, broadleaved 
woodland and lowland acid grassland. 
Cwm Nant-Ddu 
 
2 km NW 
Data not yet received 
Middle Lliw 
 
1 km NW & W 
Data not yet received 
Cilfaen 
SN641021 
0.5 km W 
Wet woodland and woodland containing ancient woodland 
assemblage, and purple moor grass and rush pasture habitat.   
Cefn Forest Stream 
SS635997 
1 km SW 
Range of woodland types.  Lowland meadow, heath and fen.  
Purple moor grass and rush pasture, ponds and 
watercourses. 
Penllegaer Forest 
SS627005 
1 km SW 
Range of woodland types.  Purple moor grass and rush 
pasture, reedbeds  watercourses.  Section 42 birds and 
invertebrates recorded. 
Penllegaer to 
Llangefelch Tunnel 
and Railway Line 
SS632996 
1 km S 
Range of woodland types.   Purple moor grass and rush 
pasture, scrub and watercourses.   Section 42 birds recorded. 
M4 Corridor 
 
1.5 km S 
Data not yet received 
Mynydd Bach 
Common 
SS652978 
2km S 
Woodland scrub and purple moor grass and rush pasture 
habitats.   
Pant Lasau 
SN652004 
0.25 km S 
Woodland, scrub, purple moor grass and rush pasture, and 
water course habitats  
Middle Llan 
SN659009 
0.5 km S 
Watercourse habitat 
Cwm Rhydceinw to 
Birchgrove Railway 
 
1.5 km SE 
Data not yet received 
 
Abergelli Power Project - Phase 1 survey report 
 
9 
18/06/2014 
Mynydd Gelli-wasted 
SN677016 
1.5 km E 
Woodland, scrub, heath, purple moor grass and rush pasture 
habitats. 
Ynysforgan Wood 
SN677002 
2 km SE 
Ancient woodland habitat. 
Lougher to 
Penllegaer Railway 
Line 
 
2 km SW 
Data not yet received 
Banc Darren Fawr 
 
2 km N 
Data not yet received 
Cwm Clydach 
 
2 km NE 
Data not yet received 
Habitats 
4.8 
The Survey Site is roughly an ‘L’ shape, with the majority of the Survey Site running approximately 
north-south and the foot of the ‘L’ branching off to the south-west around either side of Felindre 
Gas Compressor Station and the two National Grid 400kV electrical substations. The topography 
drains the land to the south with the highest elevation in the Survey Site along the northern 
boundary (approximately 140m above ordnance datum (aod). The land slopes away to the south 
and the lowest elevation is around the Felindre Gas Compressor Station and the two National Grid 
400kV electrical substations (approximately 80m aod). The land is predominantly pastoral 
farmland, mostly agriculturally improved but with significant areas of marshy grassland.  The fields 
are grazed by horses and sheep and are largely bounded by fences with occasional trees, scrub 
and one defunct hedgerow.  There are numerous water courses on site, mostly in the form of 
ditches along field boundaries, but also four streams; one which runs along the eastern boundary 
of the Survey Site; another that runs north-west from the woodland in the eastern part of the site; a 
stream that runs through the marshy grassland to the west; and another around Felindre Gas 
Compressor Station and the two National Grid 400kV electrical substations. There is a small 
woodland on the eastern boundary of the Survey Site and the land around Felindre Gas 
Compressor Station and the two National Grid 400kV electrical substations is also largely wooded. 
There are also copses and stands of mature trees around the edges of the marshy grassland in the 
north-western part of the site, as well as along field boundaries in the northern part of the site. 
Improved grassland 
4.9 
The majority of the land on site is agriculturally improved grassland (Photo 1, 2a).  This was all 
grazed short when surveyed, and consists of abundant perennial rye-grass Lolium perenne, and 
varying quantities of common grassland herbs such as white clover Trifolium repens, common 
mouse ear Cerastium fontanum, and dandelion Taraxacum fontanum agg.   
Marshy grassland 
4.10 
There are marshy grassland fields at TN3, TN3a, TN4a, TN5, TN9a, TN13a and TN21a and a 
block of marshy grassland at the southern end of the Survey Site.  Although all fit within the same 
Phase 1 category, the habitats in these fields vary across the Survey Site.  The field at TN3 (Photo 
2) had a short, close-grazed sward when surveyed.  It has numerous tussocks of soft rush Juncus 
effusus and frequent sedge species.  These include common sedge Carex.nigra and glaucous 
sedge C. flacca.  Other species noted include creeping bent Agrostis stolonifera, a cinquefoil 
Potentilla sp., creeping buttercup Ranunculus repens and sharp-flowered and/or jointed rush 
Juncus actutiflorus / J. articulatus.  
4.11 
The field at TN5 (Photo 3) was also grazed extremely short, when surveyed, to the point where 
individual species are difficult to distinguish.  Soft rush is frequent, along with purple-moor grass 
Molinia caerulea, sheep’s fescue Festuca ovina and a sedge species (not possible to identify to 
 
Abergelli Power Project - Phase 1 survey report 
 
10 
18/06/2014 
species level).  Heather Calluna vulgaris and bilberry Vaccinium myrtillus plants are occasional and 
there are patches of sphagnum moss Sphagnum sp. present. 
4.12 
The fields marked TN3a, TN4a and TN13a, are wet semi-improved grassland, with marshy species 
such as lesser spearwort Ranunculus flammula, sedges, soft rush and water figwort Scrophularia 
aquatica. 
4.13 
The fields marked TN20 all have over 25% soft rush which places them in the ‘marshy grassland’ 
category, but the intervening grassland is agriculturally improved, with abundant perennial rye-
grass and frequent white clover.  The fields marked TN21 and TN22 (Photo 4) have a much higher 
cover of soft rush - approximately 75% in TN21 and 100% in TN22 and intervening species are 
more typical of wet grassland, such as creeping bent Agrostis stolonifera, creeping buttercup and 
Yorkshire fog Holcus lanatus.   
4.14 
Areas of purple-moor grass dominated vegetation, which also falls into the ‘marshy grassland’ 
category are present at TN14 (Photo 5), TN9a and TN21a where the purple moor grass is 
dominant with very occasional cross-leaved heath Erica tetralix and heather plants in evidence and 
scattered willow Salix sp. scrub. At TN9a additional species recorded include soft rush, bracken, 
common haircap moss Polytrichum commune, unidentified sphagnum moss, heather, cross-leaved 
heath and bilberry along the margins with some birch and willow regeneration in small scattered 
copses. TN21a (Photo 4a) is a large field which is superficially similar to that at TN9a but appears 
to have been managed.   Purple moor-grass is not as dominant with numerous patches of bare 
earth and young ling and cross-leaved heath plants.  In addition hare’s-tail cotton grass Eriphorum 
vaginatum, (Photo 1a) deergrass Trichophorum germanicum and lousewort Pedicularis sp. are 
common. 
Semi-improved Grassland 
4.15 
The field to the south of the woodland at TN10 appears to be slightly less agriculturally improved, 
having a lower cover of perennial rye-grass, and a wider range of grasses such as Yorkshire fog, 
crested dog’s tail Cynosurus cristatus and creeping and common bent Agrostis capillaris.  The field 
is nevertheless species-poor. There are also two species-poor semi-improved fields in the north-
east corner of the site (TN3a, TN13a, Photo 3a). 
Woodland and scrub 
4.16 
There is a block of broadleaved woodland along the eastern boundary of the Survey Site at TN10.  
The western end is on a hill, and is dry with widely-spaced trees and a grazed grassland ground 
flora including species such as Yorkshire fog, common mouse-ear and creeping buttercup.  The 
trees here are small to medium-stemmed with very little understory, and include birch Betula 
pendula, crab-apple Malus sylvestris, holly Ilex aquifolium and pedunculate oak Quercus robur.  
The hill slopes down steeply to the east, where a stream delineates a lower, wetter area of 
woodland.  Here the tree species composition is similar but the understorey is much thicker with 
bramble predominating.  On wetter areas, where the bramble thins out, carpets of opposite-leaved 
golden-saxifrage Chrysosplenium oppositifolium are present.  There are also extensive areas of 
purple moor-grass dominated ground flora with sphagnum moss species also present. 
4.17 
To the north of this woodland there is a thin strip of deciduous woodland running along the banks of 
a stream running north to south at TN42. The species composition includes occasional birch, 
willow, ash and holly. There is an understory made up largely of gorse with bramble scrub and soft 
rush grading into improved grassland to the east.   
4.18 
Another relatively extensive area of broad-leaved woodland is present at the south-west end of the 
Survey Site around Felindre Gas Compressor Station and the two National Grid 400kV electrical 
substations.  This forms a strip to the south and a more continuous block to the north of Felindre 
Gas Compressor Station and the two National Grid 400kV electrical substations. The woodland is 
generally quite wet, with alder Alnus glutinous and willow species frequent along with pedunculate 
oak, birch and holly.  The trees are growing close together and are generally small-stemmed and 
straggly.  The understorey is dense bramble and ground flora was largely absent when surveyed, 
although where the woodland opens out, for example around the margins of Felindre Gas 
Compressor Station and the two National Grid 400kV electrical substations, soft-rush dominated 
marshy grassland is present. 
 
Abergelli Power Project - Phase 1 survey report 
 
11 
18/06/2014 
4.19 
There are also patches of deciduous woodland around the edges of the marshy grassland on the 
block of land to the west of the road that runs through the Survey Site. At TN6a there is a small 
wooded spur with tree species including oak, birch, holly, hawthorn and an understorey dominated 
by brambles and including ivy Hedera helix, creeping bent, Yorkshire fog, soft rush, hard fern 
Blechnum spicant, scaly male fern Dryopteris affinis, and bracken Pteridium aquilinum.  AtTN23a 
there is a wooded copse comprised of young birch and willow with an understorey of bramble 
scrub.  The ground flora incudes nettle, lady fern Athyrium filix-femina, scaly male fern Dryopteris 
affinis and wood false brome Brachypodium sylvaticum. A continuous area of scrub is present to 
the south of the woodland at TN10 and around the pond at TN15.  These areas are quite wet and 
include willow species (including grey and goat willow Salix cinerea, S. caprea), alder and bramble.  
At TN15 the scrub merges into stands of purple moor grass that are present around the pond. 
There are also blocks of scrub to the south of Abergelli Farm, along the stream that runs along the 
eastern boundary, at the northernmost point of the Survey Site, and within the marshy grassland to 
the west.  Scattered scrub (mostly common gorse Ulex europaeus) is present along some fence 
lines, and there is a bramble scrub-covered bund at TN4.   
4.20 
Many of the trees within the Survey Site are along site boundaries and are remnant hedgerow 
stools, as described in the section below. 
Boundary features 
4.21 
All boundaries on site are fences, except one length of species-poor hedgerow running north of 
Abergelli Farm.  The fences often run along the line of defunct hedges (Photo 1).  These generally 
take the form of a degraded stone-faced hedge banks, with occasional small sections of overgrown 
hedge.  The overgrown hedges include mature standard trees, large coppice stools and clumps of 
bramble and gorse scrub.  Species present include pedunculate oak, holly, birch, ash Fraxinus 
excelsior, hazel Corylus avellana and hawthorn Crataegus monogyna. 
4.22 
Some of the fields on site have overgrown margins where the vegetation is less trampled and 
grazed along the fence line.  For example the northern boundary of the improved field to the north 
of the field marked TN3 has a ditch lined with purple moor-grass and gorse, and further east along 
this boundary fence bracken is frequent.  The western boundary of the field marked TN22 has 
purple moor-grass and heather growing along the fence.   
Water Courses 
4.23 
There are numerous small water courses within the Survey Site.  These are mostly ditches along 
field boundaries (TN22a, Photo 5a), but there is also some larger streams. The block of marshy 
grassland to the west is criss-crossed by numerous ditches, which were largely dry or with marshy 
bases when visited in April.  There is also a stream that runs through this block of land – this is 
shaded by flanking woodland, with a stone bed and shallow banks.  Another stream (Photos 8, 9 
and 6a) runs south-east through the Survey Site and splits into smaller tributaries through the 
woodland at TN10. There are also small watercourses present around the margin of Felindre Gas 
Compressor Station and the two National Grid 400kV electrical substations.  All features that were 
visited in February had flowing water, reflecting a period of prolonged wet weather preceding the 
survey. Aquatic vegetation is not apparent in any of the water courses, but marginal vegetation 
includes frequent soft rush, occasional purple moor-grass and scattered gorse and bramble.   
Water Bodies 
4.24 
There are four water bodies within the Survey Site. The pond at TN15 (Pond17 – see 4.39) is 
approximately 10m in diameter, shallow, and completely covered in an unidentified sedge species.  
It has a small tree-covered island in the centre.  The pond is ringed by small willow and alder trees.  
The surrounding vegetation is dominated by purple moor-grass with occasional heather and cross-
leaved heath plants, with densely growing small trees and scrub (grey willow, bramble and alder).  
A small pond immediately to the south is shown on OS maps.  This was not apparent amongst the 
scrub, but there were small patches of standing water (including wheel ruts) within purple moor 
grass in this area. 
4.25 
A small pond is present at TN19 (P18 – see 4.39) adjacent to an electricity pylon.  The pond is 
approximately circular and 5m in diameter.  It is in woodland and completely surrounded by small 
saplings.  There was no evidence of marginal or emergent aquatic vegetation when surveyed. 
 
Abergelli Power Project - Phase 1 survey report 
 
12 
18/06/2014 
4.26 
Two ponds are also present immediately to the west of TN30a (Ponds 11 and 12).  Pond 12 is 
approximately 10m in diameter, open and unshaded with both aquatic and marginal vegetation 
present.  It appears to be an extension of two field drains that meet at this point.  Pond 11 is a 
small wet depression containing no vegetation. 
Invasive Species 
4.27 
Japanese knotweed Fallopia japonica was noted on at least two locations on the block of land to 
the west of the road that runs through the site.  At Target Note 15a several stands of the species 
were noted on an embankment to a large raised area.  At Target Note 18a a stand of the species 
was noted on a bend in the stream. There are also several stands of this species growing on the 
edge of the road that leads into Abergelli Farm from the west. These extend just beyond the 
western site boundary and into the Survey Site. 
4.28 
Himalayan balsam Impatiens glandulifera was also noted in two areas.  Abundant seedlings of the 
species were noted in the wooded copse at Target Note 23a and on an area of deciduous 
woodland at Target Note 28a.  
Protected Species and Species of Conservation Importance 
4.29 
This section presents the protected species records provided by SEWBReC along with any 
evidence of the species, or potential for it to be present gathered during the field survey.  Where 
relevant it also evaluates the potential for the Survey Site to support Section 42 species identified 
within the desk study area.  The legislation and policy relevant to each species or species group is 
described in Appendix 6. 
Bats 
4.30 
There were 126 bat records provided by SEWBREC from the 2 km radius search area. Of these 
the majority were recorded during bat transects carried out to inform a separate unrelated 
development proposal, named ‘Felindre development site in the records’ approximately 1 km to the 
south west of the Survey Site boundary.  
4.31 
The bat species recorded from the desk study include brown long-eared bat Plecotus auritus, 
common pipistrelle Pipistrellus pipistrellus, Natterer’s bat Myotis nattereri, noctule Nyctalus noctula, 
and whiskered bat Myotis mystacinus. There were also unidentified Pipistrellus sp. and records 
where the bat species was not specified. 
4.32 
There are four bat roosts amongst the records provided. The closest of these is a record of 50 
unspecified bat species 1.8 km to the south-east of the Survey Site at Ynystawe, Swansea from 
1992.  The next closest is a night / feeding roost of an unspecified species 1.9 km south west of the 
Survey Site boundary in Tredegar-Fawr farm buildings from 1998. A record of a roost of 87 
whiskered bats also comes from approximately 1.9 km to the north west of the Survey Site 
boundary in Felindre, Swansea from 1993. The fourth record is a roost of 70 bats of unspecified 
species, 2.5 km to the south east of the Survey Site in Ynysforgan, Swansea from 1993.   
4.33 
There are a number of buildings associated with Abergelli Farm that fall within the Survey Site.  
These are all situated along the road that runs between the Water Treatment Works to the north of 
the Survey Site and Felindre Gas Compressor Station and the two National Grid 400kV electrical 
substations to the south.   Abergelli Farm consists of a rendered brick-built building (Photo 26) with 
a tiled pitched roof.  It has overhanging eaves with wooden soffits.  The associated stable block 
(Photo 27) is of the same construction with an ‘L’-shaped footprint.  Opportunities for roosting bats 
are fairly limited as the buildings appear to be in good condition, although gaps in the woodwork 
around the eaves would allow entry into the soffits. 
4.34 
At TN4 is a small concrete bunker (Photo 31) within an area of waste land.  It is formed of 2 m high 
brick walls with a flat roof formed from concrete sleepers.  There is an open doorway on the south 
elevation and a 30 cm x 30 cm hole at the top of the west-facing wall.  This has some potential to 
support roosting bats. 
4.35 
Immediately to the north (Photo 29) and south (Photo 28) of Abergelli Farm are large barns 
constructed of corrugated metal and asbestos.  Potential for roosting bats in these buildings is low.   
 
Abergelli Power Project - Phase 1 survey report 
 
13 
18/06/2014 
There are also two brick-built sheds with corrugated metal/asbestos pitched roofs (Photo 30) 
adjacent to the northern barn which may have greater potential to support bats, having some gaps 
in the brickwork that could allow entry in to the buildings. 
4.36 
Further south, to the south of TN25a, is a pair of houses set within plots of hard-standing and 
amenity grassland.  These are newly built and in good condition with no opportunities for roosting 
bats. 
4.37 
There are 21 trees on or within 50 m of the Survey Site that have the potential to support roosting 
bats.  Of these two have been classed as Category 1 (with definite suitable features that may 
support larger roosts of bats – see Table 1), and the remainder are Category 2 (with some limited 
roost features – see Table 1).  The locations of the trees (T1-21) are illustrated in Figures 2a and 
2b and full details of the trees are provided in Appendix 3.   
4.38 
The northern end of the Survey Site offers limited foraging and commuting potential for bats.  The 
boundaries are fences and short sections of remnant hedgerows and the fields are closely grazed.  
The block of marshy grassland, woodland and scrub to the west of the road that runs through the 
Survey Site, and the wooded stream that runs along the eastern boundary offer more potential, and 
both areas have good wooded connections with a network of hedgerows, tree-lines and marshy 
pastures off-site.  The damp wooded area around Felindre Gas Compressor Station and the two 
National Grid 400kV electrical substations at the south-west end of the Survey Site also offers 
foraging potential and connects to off-site blocks of woodland to the north and south that may be 
good habitat for bats. 
4.39 
It is concluded that the Survey Site is likely to have moderate value for bats.  There are a few 
potential roosting opportunities, and some  areas (woodland and marshy grassland) of the Survey 
Site which offer foraging opportunities, but the Survey Site as a whole does not have good linear 
commuting features and the majority of the habitats (tightly grazed improved grassland) are of low 
foraging value. 
Great crested newt  
4.40 
There were no records for great crested newts provided by SEWBREC within 2 km of the Survey 
Site. 
4.41 
Nineteen ponds have been identified within 500 m of the Survey Site boundary with the aid of aerial 
photographs and OS maps.  Of these, two were identified within the Survey Site boundary (Pond 
17 turned out to be a single pond when surveyed) and eight within 250 m of the Survey Site. An 
additional two on-site ponds (Ponds 11 and 12) were found during a reptile survey on 21 May 2014 
in the marshy grassland in the north-west of the Survey Site that had not previously been seen 
during any other survey, as well as one within 100 m of the Survey Site boundary during the first 
February Phase 1 survey (Pond 18). An HSI assessment was carried out on the seven ponds that 
were accessible within 500 m of the Survey Site boundary during the first Phase 1 survey visit.  
This included the two on-site ponds (P17 and P18); one pond within 100 m of the Survey Site 
boundary (P16); and the remainder are those ponds within 500 m of the Survey Site boundary for 
which access was possible (P07, P08, P09 and P10). Figures 2a and 2b shows which ponds were 
surveyed and which were inaccessible, either on private land or not accessible given the presence 
of horses8. 
4.42 
Table 4 below summarises the results of the HSI, and Appendix 4 gives more detailed results.  
 
 
                                                      
8 The landowner requested that we do not access fields with horses in for our own safety. 
 
Abergelli Power Project - Phase 1 survey report 
 
14 
18/06/2014 
Table 4:  HSI Results 
Pond 
HSI 
Value for great crested newts 
P07 
0.67 
Average 
P08 
0.77 
Good 
P09 
0.47 
Poor 
P10 
0.64 
Average 
P16 
0.66 
Average 
P17 on site 
0.61 
Average 
P18 on site 
0.53 
Below average 
 
4.43 
The Survey Site lies in a part of the country where the distribution of great crested nested newts is 
patchy, with the species largely absent to the west of the Survey Site. Whilst this might reduce the 
probability that great crested newts would be present on site, it does not rule out their presence.  
There are a number of ponds in and around the Survey Site, and suitable habitat for newts in their 
terrestrial phase, including old hedge banks, marshy grassland and woodland within the Survey 
Site.  Those ponds surveyed, whilst most did not have a ‘good’ or ‘excellent’ HSI score, do have 
potential to provide breeding habitat for great crested newts and the possible presence of the 
species on site should be considered further. In addition the cluster of inaccessible ponds within 
the grounds of the water treatment works (to the north-west of the Survey Site) are likely to be of 
similar ‘good’ quality as Pond 08 (which was visible through the gate). 
 
Dormouse 
4.44 
SEWBReC did not provide any records of dormouse Muscardinus avellanarius. The woodland 
areas on the eastern boundary, at the south-west end and within the marshy grassland in the 
north-west of the Survey Site do not provide optimum dormouse habitat although they are suitable 
for the species. Most of the woodland consists of relatively immature trees with little hazel 
understorey, limited foraging opportunities for this species and a lack of connectivity in the canopy. 
However, these areas of woodland have good connections to a complex of woodland and thick 
hedgerows to the west, south and east, and consequently could potentially form part of a wider 
network of dormouse-supporting habitat. There are a number of recent examples of dormouse 
occurring in sub-optimal habitat, such as coniferous plantation and species-poor hedges, in south 
and mid-Wales and their presence should not be ruled out if the habitat is sub-optimal but still has 
clear potential to support the species, as in this case. 
4.45 
Figures 2a and 2b illustrate which areas of the Survey Site have the highest potential to support 
dormouse. 
Otter 
4.46 
There are a number of water courses on site, most of which are ditches, but also a small stream 
running from north-west to south-east along the centre and eastern flank of the Survey Site and 
through the woodland in the centre of the Survey Site.  SEWBReC provided 32 records of otter 
within the 2 km search radius, all recorded between 1991 and 2013. The closest record to the 
Survey Site is 0.5 km to the south west from the River Llan.  At its closest point the River Llan is 
approximately 0.3 km south of the southern Survey Site boundary, and it links to the Survey Site 
via the stream running through the woodland in the centre of the Survey Site.  None of the water 
courses on site are likely to provide good foraging opportunities because of their size, but they may 
offer lying up sites for otter, and it is possible that individuals might use the water courses to 
commute along from time to time. 
Water Vole 
4.47 
No evidence of water voles was noted along the water courses on site when surveyed in February 
and April, although February is a time of low activity for the species, when field signs may not be 
evident.  The water courses that were visited in February all had flowing water in them when 
 
Abergelli Power Project - Phase 1 survey report 
 
15 
18/06/2014 
surveyed, following a prolonged period of extremely wet weather during the winter.  It is likely that 
many of these are usually dry or hold only a small amount of water and this was confirmed during 
the April survey. As such they do not provide good habitat for water voles. The stream that runs 
along the eastern boundary of the site; however, does provide suitable habitat for water vole, 
particularly at TN41-43. At TN43, a number of vole tunnels and holes were seen along the western 
side of the bank in long tussocks of grass, although it was not possible to ascertain which species 
had made them.   
4.48 
Water voles have been present in the vicinity: SEWBReC provided three records of water vole from 
the River Llan approximately 1.9 km from the Survey Site boundary, all from 1996.  This River is 
hydrologically linked to the Survey Site (see otter section above), so it is possible, if any of the 
water courses retain water, particularly those linked to the River Llan, that water voles could be 
present on site.  
Reptiles 
4.49 
There were 12 records of reptiles provided by SEWBReC, between 1998 and 2010. These 
included records of all the common reptile species: adder Vipera berus, grass snake Natrix natrix, 
common lizard Zootoca vivipara, and slow worm Anguis fragilis. The closest record is of a common 
lizard, approximately 0.8 km to the west of the Survey Site boundary. Most records are from the 
south-west side of tinplate workings near to Bryn Whilach Farm, approximately 1 km to the 
southwest of the Survey Site boundary. 
4.50 
There are several areas of the Survey Site that provide suitable habitat for common reptile species 
(see Figures 2a and 2b).  This includes areas of marshy grassland to the south of the Survey Site, 
mounds of wood to the south of the woodland at TN10 (Photo 11), scrubby woodland fringes 
(Photo 12) and overgrown field margins either along remnant hedge banks or ditch banks. In 
addition a common lizard was seen during the April Phase 1 survey in the marshy grassland area 
in the north-west of the site and this area is particularly suitable for reptiles providing high quality 
habitat for foraging, sheltering and basking. 
Badger 
4.51 
Information on badgers is provided in a confidential version of this report. 
Birds 
4.52 
During the Phase 1 survey a number of common woodland and farmland bird species were 
recorded and these are listed in Appendix 5. The trees and woodland on site may provide nesting 
habitat for a range of common bird species.  The marshy grassland on site could also provide 
nesting habitat for ground-nesting bird species. The Survey Site does not appear to be of particular 
importance for wintering birds with no notable aggregations of common species or any rarer 
species recorded during the walkover survey, except for a red kite Milvus milvus seen in flight over 
the Survey Site (see below) in both February and April.  
4.53 
SEWBReC provided a number of records of ground nesting birds in the search area.  These 
included records for Eurasian curlew Numenius arquata, northern lapwing Vanellus vanellus and 
skylark Alauda arvensis. The closest of these records are located at the tinplate workings site near 
to Bryn Whilach Farm, approximately 1 km to the southwest of the Survey Site boundary.  There 
was one record of curlew, located at the Lliw reservoir, 1 km north of the Survey Site boundary.  
 
Schedule 1 Birds 
4.54 
SEWBReC provided 21 records of barn owl Tyto alba. The closest of these records is 0.7 km to the 
west of the Survey Site boundary from 1997, with the nearest breeding record 3 km to the south 
west near Penllergaer Woods in 2000.  It is possible that some of the farm buildings within the 
Survey Site may support breeding barn owl, although no trees were found that appear, from a 
ground level inspection, to have sufficiently large cavities to support nesting barn owls. The marshy 
fields at the southern end of the Survey Site, although probably sub-optimal, could provide habitat 
for field vole Microtus agrestis (a preferred prey species) given the thick, tussocky structure of 
some parts of the sward. The marshy grassland in the north-west of the Survey Site provides 
 
Abergelli Power Project - Phase 1 survey report 
 
16 
18/06/2014 
optimal foraging habitat for barn owls due to its extensive areas of tussocky grassland that may 
support breeding field voles Microtus agrestis, their preferred prey species. 
4.55 
A red kite was noted circling above the field at TN3 and also over Abergelli Farm.  Red kites 
generally breed in valley woodlands of which there is extensive habitat to 2-3 km to the east and 
west of the Survey Site.  It is considered likely that the Survey Site is part of a much wider area of 
potential foraging habitat for the species. SEWBReC provided 54 records for red kite between 1999 
and 2013. 
Terrestrial Invertebrates 
4.1 
SEWBReC provided 40 records of Section 42 terrestrial invertebrate species. The species 
recorded are marsh fritillary, dingy skipper Erynnis tages, narrow-bordered bee hawk-moth 
Hemaris tityus, and small pearl-bordered fritillary Boloria selene. Twenty-nine of the records are of 
marsh fritillary; the closest of these is located approximately 0.7 km west of the Survey Site 
boundary in 2009. This location also contains the closest of the four dingy skipper records, as well 
as the closest of the five small pearl-bordered fritillary records and the only narrow-bordered bee 
hawk-moth record. 
4.2 
The marshy grassland to the west provides suitable habitat for marsh fritillaries, although the food 
plant devil’s-bit scabious Succisa pratensis was not noted in any quantity during the April survey.  
Of the other Section 42 species recorded from the desk study, suitable habitat is present for 
narrow-bordered bee hawk-moth Hemaris tityus, which largely relies on devil’s bit scabious, like 
marsh fritillary. For dingy skipper, there are few areas of bare ground, where this species prefers to 
bask and no areas where its usual food plant, bird’s foot trefoil Lotus corniculatus, is found in any 
quantity. Small pearl-bordered fritillary is reliant on violets (Viola spp.) as its foodplant and violets 
have not been recorded during either Phase 1 survey (the April survey was well timed to record 
them in flower).  It is unlikely that either of these latter two species is present.  
4.3 
Other habitats that may be suitable for diverse assemblages of terrestrial invertebrates include the 
areas of broad-leaved ancient woodland at Target Note 10, for example, which represents a fairly 
extensive area of semi-natural habitat that may be important for terrestrial invertebrates, 
particularly Lepidoptera (notably moths) and beetles (Coleoptera); which are both strongly 
represented in wooded habitats.   
Aquatic Invertebrates 
4.4 
No records of Section 42 aquatic invertebrate species were provided by SEWBReC, and it is 
unlikely that any of the ponds on or close to the site support unusual or diverse assemblages of 
aquatic invertebrates. 
 
 
Abergelli Power Project - Phase 1 survey report 
 
17 
18/06/2014 
5 
Recommendations 
5.1 
For the purposes of this report it has been assumed at this stage that direct impacts will potentially 
occur across the Survey Site, and that indirect impacts will need to be considered beyond this, 
within the ‘zone of influence’ that will vary dependent on the receptor (habitat, protected species, 
designated site) concerned.  The recommendations presented below are based on preliminary 
assumptions of the potential impacts and the corresponding requirement to confirm presence / 
absence, and where present the distribution and abundance of protected and otherwise notable 
species or habitats that may occur within the Survey Site and a zone of influence surrounding it. 
Statutory Designated Sites  
5.2 
Nant Y Crimp SSSI, Penplas Grasslands SSSI and Cadle Heath LNR are located within 5 km of the 
Survey Site boundary. These sites are designated for their habitat interest and as all are over 2 km 
from the Survey Site, direct impacts resulting from the development are considered unlikely.  Nant 
Y Crimp SSSI also has a colony of marsh fritillary butterflies. The larval food plant (devil’s-bit 
scabious) for this species was found in small patches in the western area of marshy grassland 
during the Phase 1 survey, so this species may be present.  However this assessment will need to 
be reviewed once a botanical survey (see below) of the western block of marshy grassland has 
been carried out.  
 
Habitat Regulations Assessment 
5.3 
Consultation with the Planning Authority, Natural Resources Wales and PINS will determine the 
requirement for a screening exercise (under the Habitat Regulations) that considers the proximity 
of potentially sensitive ecological receptors (notably European protected sites, but potentially 
extended to SSSIs) within a search area that may extend to or beyond a 5 km radius of the Survey 
Site (for example, Camarthen Bay and Estuary SAC, Crymlyn Bog SAC, SPA and Ramsar, and 
Burry Inlet SPA and Ramsar all lie within 10 km of the Survey Site), and whether these could be 
affected by CO, NOX and NO2 emissions as well as nitrogen and acid deposition. 
5.4 
The requirement for further surveys or desk based investigation will be determined following review 
of the scoping opinion (and consultation) on this matter. 
Non-statutory Designated Sites  
5.5 
Three SINCs lie partially within the site boundary and could therefore be directly affected by the 
proposed development.  Indirect impacts could also potentially occur on those sites lying adjacent 
or close to the boundary.   
5.6 
The woodland on site that falls within Llety-Morfil SINC and the southern part of Waun Garn Wen 
SINC is also designated as Ancient Woodland and as such is irreplaceable.  Direct impacts on this 
resource may therefore also occur as a result of the proposals. 
Habitats 
5.7 
The marshy grasslands within the Survey Site potentially qualify as a Section 42 habitat ‘purple 
moor-grass and rush pastures’.  The area to the west of Abergelli Farm is also a SINC.  These 
habitats require a NVC botanical survey at an appropriate time of year (June/July) to establish their 
ecological value and inform the level of mitigation required to compensate if they are to be lost or 
modified as a consequence of the Project. The marshy grassland in the north-west of the site is 
potentially of high ecological value, and this needs to be confirmed through botanical and other 
Phase 2 survey work.  The semi-improved grasslands in the north-east corner of the site, whilst not 
having obvious high botanical value, are included within a larger SINC.  As such it is recommended 
that a botanical survey is carried out on these areas to establish their value in the wider context of 
the SINC, and therefore the likely mitigation that would be required for their loss. 
5.8 
‘Lowland mixed deciduous woodland’ is also a Section 42 habitat. The woodland on site all falls 
into this category and the majority of the resource also falls within a SINC and is designated as 
 
Abergelli Power Project - Phase 1 survey report 
 
18 
18/06/2014 
Ancient Woodland.  A botanical survey of these areas in spring/early summer when the ground 
flora is in evidence would allow an evaluation of their ecological value to be made.  
5.9 
There are no other habitats on site of high intrinsic ecological value.  The improved grassland 
habitat is common and widespread in south Wales and of minimal ecological value. In addition, all 
(bar one species poor example) of the hedgerows on the Survey Site are defunct. 
Invasive species 
5.10 
Japanese knotweed and Himalayan balsam have both been noted on the Survey Site.  It is 
recommended that a walkover survey of the Survey Site is carried out once access is available to 
all areas, including the proposed access route to map all locations where these species are 
growing.  This should be done within the period June - July when both species are most in 
evidence.  
5.11 
If work is to take place in any areas where these species are present, a Management Plan will 
need to be drawn up detailing the methods that will be used to remove these species under 
controlled conditions as detailed by the Environment Agency (The Knotweed Code of Practice 
2003 and guidance on Environment Agency website). 
Protected Species and Species of Conservation Importance 
Bats 
Trees and Buildings 
5.12 
Twenty one trees within the Survey Site have been identified as having potential to support 
roosting bats.  If these trees are to be removed or modified, it is recommended that a roped-access 
tree survey is carried out in order to confirm whether any of the features initially identified support 
roosting bats or have the potential to do so.  Where the potential for bats to roost in the tree is 
confirmed then emergence/re-entry (at dusk and/or dawn) survey may need to be carried out to 
confirm the likely use of the tree by roosting bats, and the status of any roost present. If a bat roost 
is confirmed, either through emergence/re-entry survey or through roped-access survey a 
European Protected Species (EPS) Licence is likely to be required before the tree can be felled.  
5.13 
It is recommended that all buildings to be directly or indirectly affected by the Project (if any) should 
be inspected for signs of roosting bats and features with the potential to support roosting bats, 
where access allows. 
5.14 
If signs of roosting bats or features with the potential to be used by roosting bats are identified 
during these inspection surveys, further survey in the form of dusk emergence/ dawn re-entry 
surveys may be required. The level of survey effort required will depend on the potential that the 
building or tree has been assigned in these initial inspection surveys. These further surveys (if 
required) should be undertaken in accordance with current best practice guidance (Hundt, 2012) at 
a time of year when breeding roosts may be present (i.e. between mid-May and mid-August). 
Activity Survey 
5.15 
The areas of marshy grassland, woodland and streams on site potentially provide good foraging 
habitat for bats.  It is recommended that bat activity surveys are carried out in order to inform an 
assessment of the Survey Site’s value for bats and to guide the evolution of the Project and 
mitigation accordingly.  Following the guidance provided in Hundt (2012), this would involve two 
walked transect routes (given the size of the Survey Site) carried out monthly between April and 
October, as specified in the guidelines.  An automated survey using four static bat detectors (two 
per transect route) recording for at least three nights would also be carried out. Rather than 
deploying detectors at four locations every month, it is recommended that surveys are carried out 
at four locations for three months and another four locations for the other four months so that half 
the locations would be surveyed in April, June, August and October and the other four in May, July 
and September. This would increase the spatial coverage of the Survey Site but ensure that 
sampling was undertaken at each location in spring, summer and autumn to allow a robust 
seasonal comparison to be made.  
 
Abergelli Power Project - Phase 1 survey report 
 
19 
18/06/2014 
 
Great Crested Newt 
5.16 
The presence of four ponds on site with several more in the vicinity of the Survey Site, and the 
occurrence of suitable terrestrial habitat on site indicate that great crested newts could potentially 
be using the Survey Site. This should be established through further targeted survey work. 
5.17 
Section 5.4 of the GCN Mitigation Guidelines (English Nature, 2001) recommends that: 
“For a common situation, where a plot of land containing a pond is proposed for development, the 
pond itself should be surveyed, and other ponds up to 500m away should also be checked, if it is 
thought likely that great crested newt populations centred on these ponds would be affected by 
changes to the plot.” 
5.18 
Natural England guidance(2001) is further developed in the GCN Method Statement which states 
that:  
‘The decision on whether to survey depends primarily on how likely it is that the development would 
affect newts using those ponds. For developments resulting in permanent or temporary habitat loss 
at distances over 250m from the nearest pond, carefully consider whether a survey is 
appropriate.…. normally appropriate only when all of the following conditions are met: 
1. 
maps, aerial photos, walk-over surveys or other data indicate that the pond(s) has potential to 
support a large great crested newt population,  
2. 
the footprint contains particularly favourable habitat, especially if it constitutes the majority available 
locally,  
3. 
the development would have a substantial negative effect on that habitat, and 
4. 
there is an absence of dispersal barriers.’ 
5.19 
The second piece of guidance, which supersedes the first, specifies that all four conditions should 
be met for surveys to be required of ponds beyond 250m of the Survey Site boundary.  In this case, 
condition 1. is not met as there is no indication from desk study data or the HSI assessment that 
any of the ponds is likely to support a large population of GCN or that they provide particularly 
suitable habitat (condition 2.) with no ponds within 250m of the Survey Site recording better than an 
‘average’ score on the HSI assessment.  
5.20 
As a consequence, it is recommended that all ponds within 250m (not 250-500m) would need to be 
further surveyed. This would initially involve four surveys within the period mid-March to mid-June 
to establish presence/absence (with at least two surveys during mid-April to mid-May), with an 
additional two surveys (six in total) required to estimate population size if newts are found during 
the first four surveys.   
 
Dormouse 
5.21 
If the woodland on the Survey Site is to be removed, damaged or significantly modified, it is 
recommended that dormouse surveys are carried out with the aim of establishing whether the 
species is present on site, and therefore whether a EPS Licence will be required before woodland 
can be cleared or significantly modified. It is recommended undertaking a dormouse survey, 
following methods based on those prescribed in best practice guidance (Bright et al. 2006). The 
surveys will involve the use of dormouse boxes in areas of woodland and nest tubes in cluttered 
environments where boxes cannot be used. The survey will be designed to detect the presence or 
absence of dormice rather than to provide an abundance estimate or monitor a population of the 
species. Surveys would be carried out monthly during April-November. 
 
Otter and Water Vole 
5.22 
Otter usage of the Survey Site is likely to be occasional although there are suitable resting/lying up 
places present along the eastern stream corridor within the Survey Site.  Mitigation measures to 
avoid potential killing or injury to individuals during the construction and decommissioning phases 
should be considered, for example covering open workings overnight.   
 
Abergelli Power Project - Phase 1 survey report 
 
20 
18/06/2014 
5.23 
A survey for water voles along the banks of the water courses on site should be carried out as a 
precautionary measure to establish whether the species is likely to be present on site and to design 
mitigation accordingly.  This would involve one visit and should be carried out ideally in spring 
when field signs are likely to be most in evidence but the vegetation has not grown up to obscure 
them. It will also be possible to carry out additional checks for signs of otter at the same time as the 
water vole survey, for completeness. The survey would be carried out in accordance with best 
practice guidelines (Chanin (2003) and Strachan et al., (2011), respectively). 
 
Reptiles 
5.24 
A reptile survey should be carried out on the Survey Site to establish the presence/absence of 
reptiles, the species present and the approximate population size. The survey will be conducted 
using artificial refuges (e.g. roofing felt and tin) to aid in the detection of reptiles and assessment of 
their distribution and abundance, following good practice guidance, including that set out in the 
Herpetofauna Worker’s Manual (Gent & Gibson, 2003) and Reptile Survey Guidance (Froglife, 
1999). This requires a minimum of seven visits conducted at an appropriate time of year (either 
spring/early summer and/or late summer/early autumn) during suitable weather conditions. 
 
Badger 
5.25 
 Information on badgers is provided in a confidential version of this report. 
 
Breeding Birds 
5.26 
Breeding bird surveys of the Survey Site should be carried out with the aim of establishing the 
ecological value of the breeding bird population and to inform mitigation measures. Farmland birds 
(occurring both within the Survey Site and a buffer of up to 50m) would be the main target of the 
survey. Territory mapping surveys based on the British Trust for Ornithology’s Common Bird 
Census (CBC) methodology will be undertaken.  These would be conducted on three occasions 
during the breeding season.  It is recommended that an initial visit is carried out in mid-April, 
followed by additional visits in May and June. 
5.27 
The Phase 1 survey was partly conducted in winter with an experienced ornithologist (Matt Hobbs) 
part of the survey team. As there was no evidence of notable aggregations of common species or 
habitat that may support rarer species it is considered that there is no justification for carrying out 
targeted wintering bird surveys.  
Barn owls 
5.28 
It is recommended that all buildings and mature trees on site to be directly or indirectly affected by 
the Project (if any) should be inspected for signs of roosting or nesting. Signs to be searched for 
include: nest debris, barn owl pellets, white splashes from barn owl droppings and live or dead barn 
owls themselves (Barn Owl Trust, 2012). Barn owl roost inspections can be conducted all year 
round. 
Terrestrial Invertebrates 
5.29 
The block of marshy grassland to the west, provides potential habitat for marsh fritillary butterflies 
due to the presence of their food plant, devil’s-bit scabious. As such a survey of adults during late 
May/June and also the larval webs should be carried out in mid-August to mid-September. Both 
surveys would involve walking transects over the marshy grassland, the former noting adult marsh 
fritillary butterflies and the latter checking all patches of the food plant for larval webs and larvae 
and following standard methods9. 
5.30 
The woodland at Target Note 10, for example represents a fairly extensive area of semi-natural 
habitat that may be important for terrestrial invertebrates; which are both strongly represented in 
wooded habitats.  If the woodland at TN10 is to be affected by the Project it is proposed that further 
survey will be appropriate that targets both Lepidoptera (notably moths) and beetles (Coleoptera). 
                                                      
9http://www.ukbms.org/Downloads/UKBMS%20Ng2%20-
%20Marsh%20Frit%20Webs%20guidance%20notes.pdf 
 
 
Abergelli Power Project - Phase 1 survey report 
 
21 
18/06/2014 
A moth survey should also be undertaken of the marshy grassland area in the north-west of the 
site. 
5.31 
Survey of Lepidoptera should involve two night-time moth surveys to be undertaken in late spring 
and mid-summer. Trapping using Skinner or Robinson moth traps fitted with mercury vapour bulbs 
is most suitable in terms of attracting an extensive and variable moth fauna. Lights should be 
switched on at dusk and remain lit until dawn the following day.  The traps should be checked 
periodically throughout the night to log any new arrivals.  Any species hard to identify from external 
markings alone, and those requiring further confirmation, should be retained and dissected if 
necessary to ascertain their identity with the use of a stereoscopic microscope. 
5.32 
For beetles, a method should be developed that follows Natural England (ISIS) protocol (Drake et 
al., 2007) to sample beetle assemblages directed at woodland habitats, via hand searches, sweep 
netting and pitfall trapping. To align with the Lepidoptera surveys, this can be undertaken in late 
spring/early summer and mid/late summer/early autumn. Subsequent laboratory identification will 
be required for many of the specimens collected. 
5.33 
Analysis of the results should use the ISIS protocol to determine whether any broad or specialist 
assemblage types of Lepidoptera and / or Coleoptera are present. Consideration should also be 
given to any rare, scarce or nationally threatened species present, including Section 42 species.  
Aquatic Invertebrates 
5.34 
On the assumption that watercourses will be affected by the Project, it may be appropriate to 
undertake an assessment of water quality, compliant with the Water Framework Directive (WFD). A 
main aim of the WFD is to prevent deterioration in the status of aquatic ecosystems, protect them 
and improve the ecological condition of waters. The requirement for such an assessment would be 
driven in consultation with Natural Resources Wales. Should such an assessment be required it 
may be appropriate to assess the ecological quality and surface water chemistry of watercourses to 
be affected. 
5.35 
To determine ecological quality kick-sampling for aquatic invertebrates should be undertaken at 
selected locations along the ditch / stream, and the Biological Monitoring Working Party (BMWP) 
score applied to inform an assessment of water quality and species present. This survey is best 
undertaken in spring or autumn in swift flowing waters, or in summer in stationary ditches or those 
with a slow flow. All macro-invertebrates should be identified to species level in order to determine 
the presence of any scarce or nationally notable species. 
5.36 
To determine water chemistry status a single water sample should be extracted at three locations; 
within the Survey Site and upstream and downstream of this. Samples should be dispatched to a 
UKAS accredited laboratory for subsequent analysis, to cover a standard range of parameters 
including: Biological Dissolved Oxygen, Total Suspended Solids, nutrient composition (e.g. nitrite 
as nitrogen, total oxidised nitrogen, total ammoniacal nitrogen, total phosphorus), hardness, 
calcium, alkalinity, conductivity and pH. 
5.37 
The condition of the watercourse can subsequently be analysed by recording and comparing the 
aggregated number of taxa, and average score per taxon from the sampling points along the 
watercourse within, upstream and downstream from the Survey Site. The statistical model (RICT) 
developed for WFD classification would be used to calculate the Ecological Quality Ratio (EQR) 
that compares observed with expected results for a watercourse of the same type. The EQR is 
then used to identify the Biological Status of the watercourse which is separated into five bands 
(Bad to High) required by the WFD. 
5.38 
It may also be necessary to undertake invertebrate surveys of any ponds that are likely to be 
affected by the development proposals. These are likely to involve surveys of aquatic beetles in 
June and August 
Un-surveyed Land 
5.39 
There are a number of small parcels of land that have not yet been surveyed in the southern part of 
the site. These are indicated on Figure 1b and will be surveyed once access has been arranged. 
The Phase 1 report will be updated once these surveys are complete. 
 
 
Abergelli Power Project - Phase 1 survey report 
 
22 
18/06/2014 
6 
References 
Barn Owl Conservation Trust (2012). Barn Owl Conservation Handbook: A Comprehensive Guide 
for Ecologists, Surveyors, Land Managers and Ornithologists. Pelagic Publishing. 
Bright, P. W. Morris, P. A. & Mitchell-Jones, A. (2006). Dormouse Conservation Handbook, 2nd 
Edition. English Nature, Peterborough. 
Chanin, P. (2003). Monitoring the Otter Lutra lutra. Conserving Natura 2000 Rivers Monitoring 
Series No. 10, English Nature, Peterborough.  
 
Drake, C. M., Lott, D. A., Alexander, K. N. A. & Webb, J. (2007). Surveying terrestrial and 
freshwater invertebrates for conservation evaluation. Natural England Research Report NERR005. 
Natural England, Peterborough. 
English Nature (2001). Great Crested Newt Mitigation Guidelines. English Nature.  
Environment Agency (2003). The Knotweed Code of Practice. 
https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/japanese-knotweed-managing-on-development-sites 
Froglife (1999). Reptile survey: an introduction to planning, conducting and interpreting surveys for 
snake and lizard conservation.  Froglife Advice Sheet 10.  Froglife, Halesowen. 
Gent, A.H. & Gibson, S.D. (2003). Herpetofauna Workers’ Manual. JNCC, Peterborough. 
 
Herpetological Conservation Trust (HCT) (2008). Habitat Suitability Index – Guidance Notes. 
National Amphibian and Reptile Recording Scheme. HCT. 
Hundt, L. (2012) Ed. Bat Surveys: Good Practice Guidelines. 2nd Edition. Bat Conservation Trust, 
London. 
JNCC (2010). Handbook for Phase 1 habitat survey - a technique for environmental audit. JNCC, 
Peterborough 
Oldham R.S., Keeble, J., Swan, M.J.S. and Jeffcote, M. (2000) Evaluating the suitability of habitat 
for the great crested newt (Triturus cristatus). Herpetological Journal 10(4), 143-155.  
Stace, CA (2010). New Flora of the British Isles, Third Edition. Cambridge University Press, 
Cambridge. 
Strachan, R., Moorhouse, T, and Gelling, M. (2011). The Water Vole Conservation Handbook. 
WILDCRU, Abingdon.  
 
 
Websites 
Environment Agency guidance on Japanese knotweed, giant hogweed and other invasive plants. 
https://www.gov.uk/japanese-knotweed-giant-hogweed-and-other-invasive-plants 
MAGIC: www.magic.gov.uk 
 
 
I
I
I
I
SI
SI
I
I
I
SI
I
SI
I
I
I
I
SI
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
SI
SI
SI
I
I
I
SI
SI
SI
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
13
14
15
17
18
19
20
20
22
20
1a
2a
3a
4a
5a
6a
7a
8a
9a
10a
11a
12a
13a
14a
15a
16a
17a
18a
19a
20a
21a
22a
23a
24a
25a
26a
27a
28a
29a
30a
31a
32a
33a
34a
35a
36a
37a
38a
39a
40a
41a
42a
43a
44a
45a
46a
47a
V:\Contracts\Live Contracts\7301-7400\7399 - Abergelli\Maps, Drawings & Plans\02 GIS\01 projects\Phase1_COH_140530_north.mxd
OFFICE:
T: 01600 891576
Monmouth
PROJECT TITLE
ABERGELLI POWER PLANT
DRAWING TITLE
Figure 1a - Phase 1 Habitat Survey North
DATE:
DRAWN:
APPROVED:
CHECKED:
STATUS:
SCALE:
JOB REF: 7399.00
FINAL
1:6,000
MH
MH
05.06.2014
COH
Copyright © BSG Ecology
No dimensions are to be scaled from this drawing.
All dimensions are to be checked on site.
Area measurements for indicative purposes only.
This drawing may contain: Ordnance Survey material by permission of Ordnance Survey on behalf
of the Controller of Her Majesty’s Stationery Office © Crown Copyright 2012. All rights reserved.
Reference number: 
OS Open data © Crown copyright and database right 2012 | Aerial Photography © Bing Maps
Sources:Ordnance Survey, BSG survey data
10048980
Site boundary
!(
Target notes
Broadleaved woodland
Dense scrub
Improved grassland
Marshy grassland
Semi-improved grassland
Tall ruderal
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
Bare ground
Buildings
Standing water
Water course
Species-poor intact hedge
Species-poor defunct hedge
|||||||||||||
Fence
D
Scattered scrub
!
Broadleaved tree
D
Bracken
0
500
Meters
¯
LEGEND
I
SI
 
I
SI
I
SI
I
I
I
I
SI
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
SI
SI
SI
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
SI
SI
SI
2
4
7
8
9
10
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
20
20
21
22
20
5a
6a
7a
8a
9a
10a
11a
12a
13a
14a
15a
16a
17a
18a
19a
20a
21a
22a
23a
24a
25a
26a
27a
28a
29a
30a
42a
43a
44a
45a
46a
47a
V:\Contracts\Live Contracts\7301-7400\7399 - Abergelli\Maps, Drawings & Plans\02 GIS\01 projects\Phase1_COH_140530_south.mxd
OFFICE:
T: 01600 891576
Monmouth
PROJECT TITLE
ABERGELLI POWER PLANT
DRAWING TITLE
Figure 1b - Phase 1 Habitat Survey South
DATE:
DRAWN:
APPROVED:
CHECKED:
STATUS:
SCALE:
JOB REF: 7399.00
FINAL
1:6,000
MH
MH
05.06.2014
COH
Copyright © BSG Ecology
No dimensions are to be scaled from this drawing.
All dimensions are to be checked on site.
Area measurements for indicative purposes only.
This drawing may contain: Ordnance Survey material by permission of Ordnance Survey on behalf
of the Controller of Her Majesty’s Stationery Office © Crown Copyright 2012. All rights reserved.
Reference number: 
OS Open data © Crown copyright and database right 2012 | Aerial Photography © Bing Maps
Sources:Ordnance Survey, BSG survey data
10048980
Site boundary
!(
Target notes
Broadleaved woodland
Dense scrub
Improved grassland
Marshy grassland
Semi-improved grassland
Tall ruderal
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
Bare ground
Not surveyed
Buildings
Standing water
Water course
Species-poor intact hedge
Species-poor defunct hedge
|||||||||||||
Fence
D
Scattered scrub
!
Broadleaved tree
D
Bracken
0
500
Meters
¯
LEGEND
I
SI
 
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
P15
P14
P13
P10
P07
P06
P05
P02 P03 P04
P01
P19
P12
P08
P09
P11
P16
T6
T1
T7
T4
T2
T5
T9
T3
T13
T14
T15
T16
T17
T18
T19
T20
T21
T11 T10
T12
V:\Contracts\Live Contracts\7301-7400\7399 - Abergelli\Maps, Drawings & Plans\02 GIS\01 projects\Constraints_edits_140605\Constraints_COH_140605_north_sincs.mxd
OFFICE:
T: 01600 891576
Monmouth
PROJECT TITLE
ABERGELLI POWER PLANT
DRAWING TITLE
Figure 2a - Ecological Constraints Map North
DATE:
DRAWN:
APPROVED:
CHECKED:
STATUS:
SCALE:
JOB REF: 7399.00
FINAL
1:6,000
MH
MH
05.06.2014
COH
Copyright © BSG Ecology
No dimensions are to be scaled from this drawing.
All dimensions are to be checked on site.
Area measurements for indicative purposes only.
This drawing may contain: Ordnance Survey material by permission of Ordnance Survey on behalf
of the Controller of Her Majesty’s Stationery Office © Crown Copyright 2012. All rights reserved.
Reference number: 
OS Open data © Crown copyright and database right 2012 | Aerial Photography © Bing Maps
Sources:Ordnance Survey, BSG survey data
10048980
Site boundary
250m buffer of survey site
Great crested newts
Pond within 250m of Survey
Site that should be surveyed
for GCN
Ponds within 250m of the
Survey Site for which access
was denied
Ponds within 250m of the
Survey Site that are unsuitable
for amphibians
Ponds within 250-500m of the
Survey Site
Bats
Buildings with potential to
support roosting bats
!
Trees with potential to support
roosting bats
Dormice
Areas with highest potential to support dormice
Reptile Potential
Areas with highest potential to support reptiles
0
500
Meters
¯
LEGEND
 
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
P17
P15
P14
P13
P19
P18
P12
P11
P16
T6
T7
T5
T8
T17
T18
V:\Contracts\Live Contracts\7301-7400\7399 - Abergelli\Maps, Drawings & Plans\02 GIS\01 projects\Constraints_edits_140605\Constraints_COH_140605_south_sincs.mxd
OFFICE:
T: 01600 891576
Monmouth
PROJECT TITLE
ABERGELLI POWER PLANT
DRAWING TITLE
Figure 2b - Ecological Constraints Map South
DATE:
DRAWN:
APPROVED:
CHECKED:
STATUS:
SCALE:
JOB REF: 7399.00
FINAL
1:7,000
MH
MH
05.06.2014
COH
Copyright © BSG Ecology
No dimensions are to be scaled from this drawing.
All dimensions are to be checked on site.
Area measurements for indicative purposes only.
This drawing may contain: Ordnance Survey material by permission of Ordnance Survey on behalf
of the Controller of Her Majesty’s Stationery Office © Crown Copyright 2012. All rights reserved.
Reference number: 
OS Open data © Crown copyright and database right 2012 | Aerial Photography © Bing Maps
Sources:Ordnance Survey, BSG survey data
10048980
Site boundary
250m buffer of survey site
Great crested newts
Pond within 250m of Survey
Site that should be surveyed
for GCN
Ponds within 250m of the
Survey Site for which access
was denied
Ponds within 250m of the
Survey Site that are
unsuitable for amphibians
Ponds within 250-500m of the
Survey Site
Bats
Buildings with potential to
support roosting bats
!
Trees with potential to support
roosting bats
Dormice
Areas with highest potential to support dormice
Reptile Potential
Areas with highest potential to support reptiles
0
600
Meters
¯
LEGEND
 
Waun
Garn
Wen
Llety-Morfil
Llety-Morfil
Llety-Morfil
Llety-Morfil
Llety-Morfil
Penllergaer
Forest
Penllergaer
Forest
Penllergaer
Forest
Llangyfelach
Common
Llangyfelach
Common
Llangyfelach
Common
Llangyfelach
Common
Felindre
Grasslands
Felindre
Grasslands
Pant
Lasau
Rhyd-Y-Pandy
Valley and
Grasslands
Rhyd-Y-Pandy
Valley and
Grasslands
Rhyd-Y-Pandy
Valley and
Grasslands
Rhyd-Y-Pandy
Valley and
Grasslands
Rhos
Fawr
Lower Lliw
Resivoir
Lower Lliw
Resivoir
Cilfaen
Middle
Lliw
Middle
Lliw
Middle
Lliw
Cefn
Forest
Stream
Cefn
Forest
Stream
Cefn
Forest
Stream
Cefn Forest
Stream
Middle
Llan
Middle
Llan
Cwm Nant-Ddu
V:\Contracts\Live Contracts\7301-7400\7399 - Abergelli\Maps, Drawings & Plans\02 GIS\01 projects\Constraints_edits_140605\Constraints_RT_140609_2km sinc.mxd
OFFICE:
T: 01600 891576
Monmouth
PROJECT TITLE
ABERGELLI POWER PLANT
DRAWING TITLE
Figure 3 - SINC and Ancient Woodland map
DATE:
DRAWN:
APPROVED:
CHECKED:
STATUS:
SCALE:
JOB REF: 7399.00
FINAL
1:12,000
MH
MH
16.06.2014
RT
Copyright © BSG Ecology
No dimensions are to be scaled from this drawing.
All dimensions are to be checked on site.
Area measurements for indicative purposes only.
This drawing may contain: Ordnance Survey material by permission of Ordnance Survey on behalf
of the Controller of Her Majesty’s Stationery Office © Crown Copyright 2012. All rights reserved.
Reference number: 
OS Open data © Crown copyright and database right 2012 | Aerial Photography © Bing Maps
Sources:Ordnance Survey, BSG survey data
10048980
0
1,000
Meters
¯
LEGEND
Site boundary
500m radius from site
boundary
Other SINC location
Site of Importance for Nature Conservation (SINC)
SINC: Llety-Morfil
SINC: Middle Llan
SINC: Rhos Fawr
SINC: Rhyd-Y-Pandy Valley
and Grasslands
SINC: Waun Garn Wen
Ancient Woodland
Ancient Woodland
 
 
Abergelli Power Project - Phase 1 survey report 
 
23 
18/06/2014 
Appendix 1: Target Notes 
February Survey 
1. A spring running into a wet ditch.  The ditch has a muddy base with sweet-grass Glyceria sp. and soft rush 
the dominant plant species.  Frog spawn was present. 
2. A wet ditch fenced on either side.  The ditch meets a spring which runs into it flowing southwards.  The 
ditch has steeply sloping grassy banks, is open and unshaded with great willow herb Epilobium hirstum and 
soft rush present.  A newly planted hedge runs along the south side – gapping up a defunct hedge.  Also, 
occasional large coppices of holly were recorded. 
3. Marshy grassland with abundant soft rush.   The sward is grazed very short by horses. Frequent patches 
of sedge species were recorded including common sedge and glaucous sedge.  Other species noted include 
sharp-flowered rush and/or jointed rush (difficult to separate in winter and when closely grazed), cinquefoil 
species, daisy and creeping bent.   
4. A small concrete bunker with wasteland area.  The concrete bunker is formed of 2m high brick walls with a 
flat roof formed from concrete sleepers.  There is an open doorway on the south elevation and a 30cm x 
30cm hole at the top of the west-facing wall.  No evidence of bats was recorded. The surrounding land is 
compacted course aggregate which is becoming colonised with common grassland species.  There is an 
earth bund around the south-east and north-east boundary, topped with dense bramble and gorse scrub. 
5. An area of marshy grassland which is very closely grazed.  Occasional heather and bilberry plants and 
patches of sphagnum moss were recorded. Purple moor grass is frequent and forms dominant tussocks at 
the north end of the field.  Other species include sheep’s fescue and a sedge species.   
6. An area of marshy grassland dominated by soft rush.  The field was not entered as it is outside the 
ownership boundary, but inspection from the roadside suggests that rushes are interspersed with 
agriculturally improved grassland. 
7. A wet ditch running through the middle of the field containing fast flowing water with orange discolouration. 
The ditch is overgrown with bramble and joins another ditch on its eastern boundary, which is lined with 
purple moor grass, greater willowherb, and soft rush.  The surrounding field is agriculturally improved with 
patches of soft rush. 
8. A derelict stone farmhouse with only the bottom halves of walls still present.  Patches of rubble and 
overgrown vegetation are present, which may provide good habitat for reptiles. 
9. A stream lined with trees, which is fast-flowing with a stony substrate. 
10. An area of broadleaved woodland.  The western end is on a hill, which slopes steeply down to the east.  
This end (delineated by a stream running north-south) is dry with widely spaced trees and a grazed 
grassland ground flora (Yorkshire fog, common mouse-ear, and creeping buttercup were the most prominent 
species) and very little understorey was noted.  The eastern end is much wetter, with carpets of opposite-
leaved golden-saxifrage, extensive areas of purple moor-grass dominated ground flora with some sphagnum 
moss species.  The understorey is thicker here and is predominantly bramble.   Tree species include birch, 
crab-apple, holly and pedunculate oak.  Most specimens are small-medium in size. 
11 and 12. These Target Notes relate to evidence of badger activity and are provided in a confidential 
version of this report. They are also omitted from Figures. 
13. A ditch along a line of small-medium trees (beech, holly, pedunculate oak) and a fence. Bilberry is 
growing along the fence. 
14. A marshy grassland field with abundant soft rush tussocks.  The area indicated by this target note is 
dominated by purple moor-grass with occasional cross-leaved heath and scattered small trees/scrub.  
15. A shallow pond (less than 10cm deep), approximately 10m in diameter, completely covered in a sedge 
species (only dead leaves were evident so identification was not possible) and with a small tree-covered 
island in the centre.  The pond is ringed by small trees.  The surrounding vegetation includes purple moor-
grass with occasional heather and cross-leaved heath and densely growing small trees and scrub (willow 
species, bramble and alder.  A small pond immediately to the south is shown on OS maps.  This consisted of 
small patches of standing water (including wheel ruts) within marshy (rushes, purple moor grass) vegetation. 
16.  A strip of land around the gas station, which is higher than the surrounding land.  There is a gravel strip 
immediately surrounding the boundary fence then a steep slope covered in soft-rush dominated grassland.  
At the base of the slope is a mosaic of marshy rush-dominated grassland with dense bramble scrub and wet 
 
Abergelli Power Project - Phase 1 survey report 
 
24 
18/06/2014 
woodland.  The woodland consists of closely spaced, small and straggly trees composed largely of holly, 
pedunculate oak, birch, willow and alder.     
17. A patch of marshy grassland almost totally dominated by soft rush.  Small patch of bulrush were found 
towards centre of field.  The field is surrounded by encroaching scrub and straggly woodland. 
18.  An area of wet woodland with dense bramble understorey.  The species present and structure are as for 
Target Note 16.  Wet underfoot. 
19. A small pond within woodland fed by a stream.  No emergent/marginal vegetation was in evidence and 
the pond is surrounded by small saplings. 
20. Marshy grassland fields consisting of more than 25% soft rush.  The intervening grassland is 
agriculturally improved, including perennial rye-grass Lolium perenne, common mouse-ear and white clover 
Trifolium repens.   
21. An area of marshy grassland with approximately 75% soft rush cover. The intervening grassland is semi-
improved. 
22. An area of marshy grassland almost totally dominated by soft rush.  The western boundary fence has 
heather and purple moor-grass growing along it. 
April Survey 
1a 
Improved grassland with short sward grazed by horses. Access to field restricted by presence of 
horses. Species observed from track include creeping thistle Cirsium arvense, perennial rye-grass, broad-
leaved dock Rumex obtusifolius and creeping bent. 
2a 
Species-poor hedge with hawthorn Crataegus monogyna and willow Salix sp., grading into old bank 
boundary with overgrown hedge with oak Quercus sp. and holly Illex aquifolium and drainage ditch along 
north side.  
3a 
Semi-improved marshy grassland with very short sward, grazed by horses. Species recorded include 
soft rush Juncus effusus, Yorkshire fog Holcus lanatus, perennial rye-grass, creeping buttercup Ranunculus 
repens, silverweed Potentilla anserina, white clover Trifolium repens, dandelion Taraxacum officinale agg.., 
ribwort plantain Plantago lanceolata, lesser spearwort Ranunculus flammula, mouse-ear-hawkweed Pilosella 
officinarum, unidentified sedges Carex spp. 
4a 
Marshy grassland with small copse of willow, oak and birch Betula sp., fenced off from horses with 
head of spring in centre. Potential for terrestrial phase amphibians and reptiles in sunny hedgebank and 
refugia provided by piles of dead wood and nesting birds in trees.  Species recorded include common bent 
Agrostis capillaris, Yorkshire fog, soft rush, creeping bent, sweet grass Glyceria sp., wavy bittercress 
Cardamine flexuosa, creeping buttercup, curled dock Rumex crispus, broad-leaved willowherb Epilobium 
montanum, bird’s-foot-trefoil Lotus corniculatus, lady fern Athyrium felix-femina.   
5a 
Area of dense bramble Rubus fruticosus agg. scrub and willow regeneration immediately beneath 
power lines which links to wooded spur to west and marshy grassland copse to east. 
6a 
Small wooded spur with tree species including oak, birch, holly, hawthorn with an understorey 
dominated by brambles and including ivy Hedera helix, creeping bent, Yorkshire fog, soft rush, hard fern 
Blechnum spicant, scaly male fern Dryopteris affinis, and bracken Pteridium aquilinum. 
7a 
Bank feature delineating boundary of small field (see 8) with birch and willow regeneration and 
mature oak to southern end. Ground flora dominated by bracken and bramble with bluebell Hyacinthoides 
non-scripta and bilberry Vaccinium myrtillus to south. 
8a 
Small field dominated by bramble scrub with bracken, broad-leaved willowherb and soft rush.  
Grades into copse of birch and willow regeneration to east with ephemeral ditch along south and east 
boundaries.  
9a 
Large field of wet dwarf shrub heath, dominated by purple moor grass Molinia caerulea with soft 
rush, bracken, common haircap moss Polytrichum commune, unidentified sphagnum moss Sphagnum sp., 
ling Calluna vulgaris, cross-leaved heath Erica tetralix  and bilberry along margins.  Some birch and willow 
regeneration in small scattered copses. 
10a 
Badger snuffle holes and intermittent trails. 
11a 
Mature oak. 
12a 
Mature alder Alnus glutinosa. 
 
Abergelli Power Project - Phase 1 survey report 
 
25 
18/06/2014 
13a 
Semi-improved grassland with high proportion of herbs and low proportion of grass.  Species 
recorded include soft rush, ribwort plantain, mouse-ear-hawkweed, dandelion, daisy Bellis perennis, self-heal 
Prunella vulgaris, white clover, creeping buttercup, broad-leaved willowherb, bird’s-foot-trefoil, common 
mouse-ear Cerastium fontanum, yarrow Achillea millefolium, marsh thistle Cirsium palustre and with lesser 
spearwort, water figwort Scrophularia aquatica and horsetails Equisetum sp. in the southern corner.  
14a 
Wooded stream corridor with oak, hawthorn, birch and occasional alder. Understorey dominated by 
bramble scrub. 
15a 
Embankment of large raised area with mature trees on banks. Northern side with young willow, 
hawthorn, birch, elder Sambucus nigra, rowan Sorbus aucuparia and semi-mature / mature oak.  Ground 
flora dominated by brambles but with hart’s-tongue fern Asplenium scolopendrium, lady fern, hard fern, scaly 
male fern, unidentified polypody fern Polypodium sp., common nettle Urtica dioica and dog’s mercury 
Mercurialis perennis. Several stands of Japanese knotweed Fallopia japonica  identified.  
16a 
Mature oak tree. 
17a 
Mature oak tree. 
18a 
Wooded stream corridor with willow and elder and intermittent bramble scrub. Species recorded 
include common nettle, broad-leaved willowherb, horsetails, water figwort, soft rush, hard fern, bracken, 
angelica Angelica sylvestris, herb Robert Geranium robertianum and pendulous sedge Carex pendula. Stand 
of Japanese knotweed at bend in stream. 
19a 
Stand of bramble scrub within willow and birch regeneration with damp substrate supporting reed 
canary grass Phalaris arundinacea. Lots of piles of dead wood. 
20a 
Irrigation ditch, occasional young birch and willow with purple moor-grass, soft rush and bracken.  
Ditch dry. 
21a 
Large field superficially similar to 9a but appears to have been managed.   Purple moor-grass not as 
dominant, lots of bare earth and young ling and cross-leaved heath plants.  In addition hare’s-tail cotton 
grass Eriphorum vaginatum, deergrass Trichophorum germanicum and lousewort Pedicularis sp.  
22a 
Field drain holding water with common reed Typha latifolia, broad-leaved pondweed Potamogeton 
natans and water-plantain Alisima plantago-aquatica. Common lizard Lacerta vivipara directly observed on 
bank of ditch. 
23a 
Wooded copse comprised of young birch and willow with understorey of bramble scrub and ground 
flora comprising common nettle, lady fern, scaly male fern, wood false brome Brachypodium sylvaticum. 
Himalayan balsam Impatiens glandulifera seedlings abundant. There is also a ditch with very shallow, 
ponded, oily water with no aquatic vegetation.  
24a 
Drainage ditch holding water, and with dense stands of sphagnum moss in bottom of ditch. Steep 
sides with ling, cross-leaved heath and purple moor-grass.  
25a 
Birch.  
26a 
Improved grassland with very short sward, grazed by horses. Horses present, not surveyed in detail. 
27a  
Area of partially colonised tipped spoil, being re-graded at time of survey. Bramble and willow scrub 
around margins / banks and horse training area to North. Species recorded in this area include bramble, 
gorse Ulex europea, curled dock, broad-leaved dock, common nettle, a brassica Brassicaceae, creeping 
thistle, colt’s foot Tussilago farfara, foxglove Digitalis purpurea, wavy bittercress, bird’s-foot trefoil, Yorkshire 
fog and white clover.  
28a 
Area of deciduous woodland and scrub comprising occasional mature oak with hazel Corylus 
avellana, holly, birch, rowan, willow, a scrub layer of bramble and a ground flora including bluebells, hard 
fern, soft rush, creeping bent, common bent, a spurge Euphorbiaceae, wood false-brome and abundant 
Himalayan balsam seedlings. Area contains many piles of fallen deadwood and there is a bank feature along 
part of the northern boundary. 
29a 
Mature ash Fraxinus excelsior. 
30a 
Earth works with large percentage bare, waterlogged earth. In undisturbed marginal sloped areas 
gorse, willow and bramble scrub is present. 
31a 
Improved grassland with very short sward, grazed by horses.  Species recorded include perennial 
rye-grass, common bent, occasional soft rush, daisy, broad-leaved dock, mouse-ear hawkweed, white 
clover, dandelion, cocksfoot Dactylis glomerata, annual meadow grass Poa annua and couch grass Elymus 
repens with approximately 20% bare earth. 
 
Abergelli Power Project - Phase 1 survey report 
 
26 
18/06/2014 
32a 
Bank field boundary with many mature but small holly trees and ground flora of grazed improved 
grassland.  
33a 
Semi-improved grassland similar in composition to 38 but with very short sward, grazed by horses. 
34a 
Stone wall / bank delineating eastern edge of domestic property. 
35a 
Mature oak. 
36a 
Treeline along track with mature / semi-mature oak, and scrub layer comprising gorse and bramble.  
There are many loose rocks and exposed tree roots with a wet ditch along the northern side fringed by soft 
rush.  The water is ponded and shallow with no aquatic plants observed. 
37a 
Mature oak. 
38a 
Semi-improved grassland on a sloped field with a spring issuing in the centre. There are occasional 
scrub stands comprised of hawthorn, bramble, willow, gorse with common nettles and cleavers Galium 
aparine. The slope is not uniform and there are wetter areas indicated by stands of soft rush.  Other species 
recorded include perennial rye-grass, creeping bent, common bent, Yorkshire fog, cocksfoot, creeping 
thistle, marsh thistle, broad-leaved dock, dandelion, daisy, yarrow, creeping buttercup. 
39a 
Damp drainage ditch with soft rush, common reed, broad-leaved willowherb and occasional 
pendulous sedge. No visible standing water as vegetation very dense. Likely to be ephemeral. 
40a 
Area where soft-rush dominant and very low percentage of grass. Herbs recorded include common 
sorrel Rumex acetosa, knotgrass Polygonum aviculare, common mouse-ear, creeping buttercup, wavy bitter-
cress and cleavers. 
41a 
Stream, flowing water approximately 30cm deep, good water quality, moderate flow.  Bankside 
vegetation including lesser water-parsnip Berula erecta, horsetails Equisetum sp., reed canary-grass, 
angelica,  broad-leaved willowherb, bramble, bracken, soft rush, common nettle, hard fern, common haircap 
moss, cuckoo pint and lesser celandine Ranunculus ficaria. Stream fringed by regenerating birch and willow 
scrub. 
42a 
Tree-lined stream corridor with mature / semi-mature oak trees along Eastern edge with occasional 
birch, willow, ash and holly. Understory of gorse with bramble scrub and soft rush grading into improved 
grassland to east.  Along western bank, grassland typical of wider area but with longer sward (low-density 
sheep-grazing) and also including sweet vernal grass Anthoxanthum odoratum, crested dog’s tail Cynosurus 
cristatus, a fescue Festuca sp. and field wood rush Luzula campestris.  
43a 
Large mammal slide and run to hole under bank / tree on eastern side of bank. Many vole tunnels 
along western side of bank in long tussocky grass. 
44a 
Mature oak. 
45a 
Drainage ditch and area of marshy grassland including species such as horsetails, flote-grass, lesser 
water-parsnip, angelica and soft rush. 
46a 
Area of improved grassland with short sward, grazed by sheep.  Contains piles of semi-colonised 
rubble with common nettles and gorse. 
47a 
Curtilage of old barns containing a number of mature / dead ash trees. 
 
Abergelli Power Project - Phase 1 survey report 
 
27 
18/06/2014 
Appendix 2: Photographs 
Habitats 
 
Photo 1: Improved grassland with defunct 
hedge. 
Photo 2: Marshy grassland at TN3. 
 
 
Photo 3: Marshy grassland at TN5. 
Photo 4: Marshy grassland at TN22. 
 
 
Photo 5: Marshy grassland at TN14. 
Photo 6: Woodland at TN10. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Abergelli Power Project - Phase 1 survey report 
 
28 
18/06/2014 
Habitats – April Survey 
 
Photo 1a: Hare’s-tail cottongrass 
Photo 2a: Improved grassland 
 
 
Photo 3a: Semi-improved grassland at TN3a 
Photo 4a: Marshy grassland at TN21a 
 
 
Photo 5a: TN22a Field drain 
Photo 6a: Stream corridor at TN42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Abergelli Power Project - Phase 1 survey report 
 
29 
18/06/2014 
 
 
 
 
 
Photo 7: Woodland at TN18. 
Photo 8: Stream in woodland TN10. 
 
 
Photo 9: Stream at TN9. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Abergelli Power Project - Phase 1 survey report 
 
30 
18/06/2014 
Ponds surveyed with HSI method 
 
Photo 10: Pond P1 within water treatment 
works. 
Photo 11: Pond P1 within water treatment 
works. 
 
 
Photo12: Pond P3. 
Photo 13: Pond P4. 
 
 
Photo 14: Pond P5. 
Photo 15: Pond P6. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Abergelli Power Project - Phase 1 survey report 
 
31 
18/06/2014 
 
 
 
Photo 16: Pond P7. 
 
Trees with potential for roosting bats 
 
Photo 17: T1 
Photo 18: T2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Abergelli Power Project - Phase 1 survey report 
 
32 
18/06/2014 
 
 
Photo 19: T3 
Photo 20: T4 
 
 
Photo 21: T5 
Photo 22: T6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Abergelli Power Project - Phase 1 survey report 
 
33 
18/06/2014 
Reptiles – examples of suitable habitat. 
 
Photo 24: Mounds of wood south of TN10. 
Photo 25: Tussocky grassland suitable for 
reptiles. 
 
 
 
Badger – images providing evidence of badgers are provided in a confidential version of 
this report.  
Buildings 
Photo 26: Abergelli Farm 
Photo 27: Abergelli Farm Stables 
 
 
Photo 28: Barn to south of Abergelli Farm 
Photo 29: Barn to North of Abergelli Farm 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Abergelli Power Project - Phase 1 survey report 
 
34 
18/06/2014 
Photo 30: Building adjacent to barn at Photo 4 
Photo 31: Bunker at TN4 
 
 
 
 
 
Abergelli Power Project - Phase 1 survey report 
 
35 
18/06/2014 
Appendix 3:  Bat Tree Survey Results 
6.1 
 
ID 
OSGR 
Species 
Category 
Height 
DBH 
(cm) 
Type 
Aspect 
Extent 
Height 
Canopy 
U-storey 
T1 
 SN6539002532 
Oak 
2  
 12m 
110  
Extensive ivy cover on stem with lifted 
plates 
 N 
  
4-8m  
20  
 0 
T2 
SN6525601938  
 Birch 
2 
5m 
 40 
 Cavity- small hollows on both stems 
 E 
0.4x0.2m  
 1-2m 
 0 
0  
T3 
 SN6530601421 
 Birch 
 2 
8m 
100 
 Woodpecker hole 
 SW 
  
 4m 
 0 
0  
T4 
SN6534301853  
 Oak 
1 
 10m 
 90 
 Two splits one open one less obvious 
 S 
  
 5 and 5 m 
 0 
0  
T5 
SN6545501412  
 Birch 
2 
14m  
 160 
 Rot hole – extent unknown 
  
  
 4m 
 50 
10  
T6 
SN6547501418  
 Birch 
2  
 15m 
 80 
 Rot hole 
 NW 
0.5m  
 2-3m 
 50 
0  
T7 
 SN6540101683 
 Oak 
2 
 17m 
80  
 Thick ivy and hollow trunk exposed 
 N 
  
 Throughout 
 0 
0  
T8 
 SN6509901209 
 Oak 
2 
 17m 
 200 
Recently cut limb has revealed rot hole 
within  
S 
0.1m  
2m  
50  
 25 
T9 
 SN6517002031 
Oak  
2 
15m  
80  
Split limb 
 N 
  
  
 0 
0  
1404-01 
TN6 – N edge 
Oak 
2 
 
30 
WPH x 5 
All 
2-4m AGL 
2-4m AGL 
50 
20 
1401-02 
TN6 – N edge 
Oak 
2 
 
30 
Hollow @ base 
N 
0.2 x 0.5 
0-1m AGL 
50 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Split in branch 
? 
 
8m AGL 
50 
20 
1404-03 
TN6 – N edge 
Oak 
2 
 
100 
Cavity / rot back 
 
 
6m AGL 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Split limb 
E 
 
6m AGL 
 
 
1404 - 04 
TN11 
Oak 
2 
 
50 
Dense ivy 
All 
All 
All 
50 
50 
1404 -05 
TN12 
Alder 
2 
 
40 
Hollow limb 
 
 
6mAGL 
50 
50 
1404 - 06 
TN16 
Oak 
2 
 
60 
Multiple splits 
N and E 
 
4m AGL 
50 
50 
1404 -07 
TN17 
Oak 
2 
 
40 
WPH 
S 
10cm diameter 
4mAGL 
50 
50 
1404-07 
TN 25 
Birch 
2 
 
60 
Dense ivy 
All 
All 
All 
50 
50 
1404-08 
TN29 
Ash 
1 
 
75 
Rot hole 
N 
 
3mAGL 
50 
50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hollow limb 
N 
 
7mAGL 
 
 
1404-09 
TN35 
Oak 
2 
 
60 
Hollow limb 
N 
 
5mAGL 
50 
50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cavity main stem 
W 
 
4mAGL 
 
 
 
Abergelli Power Project - Phase 1 survey report 
 
36 
18/06/2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Split / hollow limb 
W 
 
5mAGL 
 
 
1404-10 
TN37 
Oak 
2 
 
40 
Slit main stem 
Up 
 
6mAGL 
50 
50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rot hole /hollow 
S 
 
3mAGL 
 
 
1404-11 
TN44 
Oak 
2 
 
100 
Dense ivy 
All 
All 
All 
50 
50 
 
Abergelli Power Project - Phase 1 survey report 
 
37 
18/06/2014 
Appendix 4: HSI Results 
Pond 
HSI 
Value for great crested newts 
P07 
0.67 
Average 
P08 
0.77 
Good 
P09 
0.47 
Poor 
P10 
0.64 
Average 
P16 
0.66 
Average 
P17 on site 
0.61 
Average 
P18 on site 
0.53 
Below average 
 
 
 
Abergelli Power Project - Phase 1 survey report 
 
38 
18/06/2014 
Pond 
Ref.  
Location 
Pond 
Area 
M2 
Pond 
permanence 
Water 
Quality 
Pond 
Shading 
% 
No. of 
waterfowl 
 
Occurrence 
of fish 
Pond 
density 
Proportion of newt 
friendly habitat 
around pond within 
500m – Any Barriers? 
Macrophyte content 
(est % total of 
emergent and 
submerged 
macrphytes) 
Notes 
P08 
SN6463502258 
240 
Never dries 
Good 
10 
Minimal 
Possible 
Y 
Good 
30 
Typha and rushes around 
edge.  Close access not 
possible. 
P07 
SN6464602272 
150 
Never dries 
Good 
30 
Minimal 
Possible 
Y 
Good 
0 
Not well vegetated. 
P10 
SN6548702727 
70 
Sometimes 
dries 
Good 
5 
Minimal 
Possible 
Y 
Good 
20 
Small and shallow. 
P09 
SN6535602709 
20 
Annually dries 
Moderate 
30 
Absent 
No  
 
Y 
Good 
0 
Very shallow and unlikely 
to fill up – probably mostly 
dry. 
P16 
SN6558701536 
25 
Sometimes 
Good 
60 
Absent 
No 
Y 
Good 
40 
 
P17 
SN6559801237 
100 
Annually dries 
Good 
80 
Absent 
No 
Y 
Good 
100 
Water shallow and 
covered in Carex species. 
To south consists of 
patches of standing water 
within Molinia 
P18 
SN6503101199 
50 
Never 
Moderate 
100 
Absent 
No 
Y 
Moderate 
0 
Small pond within 
woodland – water dark 
and no aquatic vegetation 
in evidence. 
 
 
Abergelli Power Project - Phase 1 survey report 
 
39 
18/06/2014 
Appendix 5: Bird species recorded during Phase 1 survey. 
 
 
Latin Name 
Common Name 
Mallard 
Anas platyrhynchos 
Buzzard 
Buteo buteo 
Red kite 
Milvus milvus 
Woodpigeon 
Columba palumbus 
Great spotted woodpecker 
Dendrocopos major 
Meadow pipit 
Anthus pratensis 
Pied Wagtail 
Motacilla alba yarrellii 
Dunnock 
Prunella modularis 
Wren 
Troglodytes troglodytes 
Robin 
Erithacus rubecula 
Blackbird 
Turdus merula 
Song Thrush 
Turdus philomelos 
Mistle thrush 
Turdus viscivorus 
Redwing 
Turdus iliacus 
Blue Tit 
Parus caeruleus 
Great Tit 
Parus major 
Long tailed tit 
Aegithalos caudatus 
Magpie 
Pica pica 
Jackdaw 
Corvus monedula 
Carrion crow 
Corvus corone 
Rook 
Corvus frugilegus 
House sparrow 
Passer domesticus 
Chaffinch 
Fingilla coelebs 
Greenfinch 
Carduelis chloris 
Goldfinch 
Carduelis carduelis 
Reed bunting 
Emberiza schoeniclus 
 
 
Abergelli Power Project - Phase 1 survey report 
 
40 
18/06/2014 
Appendix 6: Summaries of Relevant Legislation, Policy and Other 
Instruments 
National Planning Policy  
6.2 
Technical Advice Note (TAN) 5 provides Welsh Assembly Government advice about how the land 
use planning system in Wales should contribute to protecting and enhancing biodiversity and 
geological conservation.   
6.3 
It follows that the TAN provides guidance to local planning authorities on: the key principles of 
positive planning for nature conservation; nature conservation and Local Development Plans; 
nature conservation in development management procedures; development affecting protected 
internationally and nationally designated sites and habitats; and, development affecting protected 
and priority habitats and species. 
6.4 
Planning considerations with regard to habitats and species are of greatest relevance to the 
Abergelli Farm proposal.  For a full account, the TAN should be referred to, but some of the key 
principles are summarised as follows: 
i. 
When dealing with cases where a European protected species of plant or animal may be affected, 
a local planning authority needs to have regard to the requirements of the Habitats Directive in the 
exercise of its functions. 
ii. 
The TAN refers to the Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981 (as amended), which makes it an offence 
(with certain limited exceptions and in the absence of a licence) to intentionally to kill, injure or take 
any wild bird, or to damage, take or destroy the nest of any wild bird whilst that nest is being built or 
in use, or to take or destroy its eggs.  Further offences apply to species listed under Schedule 1 of 
the Act. 
iii. 
The above Act also affords protection to wild animals of the species listed in Schedule 5, and to 
wild plants listed in Schedule 8, most of which are not European protected species.  Actions that 
are likely to result in an offence are identified; 
iv. 
With regard to badger, Meles meles, the TAN refers to the provisions of the Protection of Badgers 
Act, 1992; 
v. 
The TAN makes reference to Sections 40 and 42 of the Natural Environment and Rural 
Communities Act 2006, which place a duty on the Welsh Assembly Government to have regard to 
the purpose of conserving biodiversity (see Section 1.10 of this report); 
vi. 
In section 2.4 it is noted that when deciding planning applications that may affect nature 
conservation, local planning authorities should protect wildlife and natural features in the wider 
environment, with appropriate weight attached to priority habitats and species in Biodiversity Action 
Plans; 
vii. 
When determining planning applications, planning authorities should ensure that all material 
considerations are taken into account, that decisions are informed by adequate information about 
the potential effects of development on nature conservation, and that the range and population of 
protected species is sustained; 
viii. 
Planning applications should demonstrate a step-wise approach to avoid harm to nature 
conservation, minimise unavoidable harm by mitigation measures, offset residual harm by 
compensation measures and look for new opportunities to enhance nature conservation. 
UK Post-2010 Biodiversity Framework 
6.5 
The Environment Departments of all four governments in the UK work together through the Four 
Countries Biodiversity Group.  Together they have agreed, and Ministers have signed, a framework 
of priorities for UK-level work for the Convention on Biological Diversity.  Published on 17 July 
2012, the 'UK Post-2010 Biodiversity Framework' covers the period from 2011 to 2020.  
 
Abergelli Power Project - Phase 1 survey report 
 
41 
18/06/2014 
6.6 
Most work which was previously carried out under the UK Biodiversity Action Plan (UK BAP) is now 
focussed in the four countries of the UK through the new framework.  The UK BAP partnership no 
longer operates but includes detailed Action Plans for priority habitats and species, which are still in 
use and of relevance. The list of priority habitats and species included within the UK BAP list is 
equivalent to the list of Section 42 habitats and species.  
6.7 
The UK BAP is supported by a series of Local Biodiversity Action Plans (LBAPs), usually set up on 
a local authority administrative boundary basis. Each LBAP identifies those habitats and species 
considered to be most important in that area (usually referred to as priority habitats and species). 
Commonly, an LBAP will identify a number of habitats and species for which “action plans” have 
been prepared. The Swansea LBAP is was created in 2005 but is unavailable as it is under review. 
Wildlife Legislation 
6.8 
Legislation of most relevance to this assessment includes the following: 
Natural Environment and Rural Communities (NERC) Act 2006  
6.9 
Section 40 of the Natural Environment and Rural Community Act (NERC) 2006 sets out the duty 
which public authorities have to conserve biodiversity. Section 40 States that: “every public 
authority must, in exercising its functions, have regard, so far as is consistent with the proper 
exercise of those functions, to the purpose of conserving biodiversity”. The term Public Authority 
includes local authorities and local planning authorities. 
6.10 
Paragraph 40(3) goes on to state that “conserving biodiversity includes, in relation to a living 
organism or type of habitat, restoring or enhancing a population or habitat”. 
6.11 
Paragraph 42(1) states that “the Secretary of State must, as respects Wales, publish a list of the 
living organisms and types of habitat which in the Secretary of State’s opinion are of principal 
importance for the purpose of conserving biodiversity”. This replaces a similar reference to the list 
that was found in Section 74 of the Countryside and Rights of Way Act 2000 (the CRoW Act). 
The Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981 (as amended by the Countryside and Rights of Way 
Act 2000) 
Protection afforded to birds 
6.12 
Section 1 of the Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981 (WCA) prohibits the intentional killing, injuring or 
taking of any wild bird and the taking, damaging or destroying of the nest (whilst being built or in 
use) or eggs.  Section 1 also prohibits disturbing any bird listed on Schedule 1 of the Act whilst at 
or near the nest and prohibits disturbing the dependent young of such birds. 
Protection afforded to other animals 
6.13 
Species listed on Schedule 5 that may be of relevance to this site include GCNs, bats, otter, water 
vole and all species of reptiles.  The places of shelter used by otter and water vole are protected, 
but reptiles are protected from killing and injury only. 
Protection afforded to Sites of Special Scientific Interest (SSSIs) 
6.14 
Section 28 allows for the creation of SSSIs by the government (through Natural Resources Wales 
in Wales) where Natural Resources Wales (NRW) “is of the opinion that any area of land is of 
special interest by reason of any of its flora, fauna, geological or physiographical features.” 
6.15 
Section 28G specifies the duty of specific public authorities (including local authorities) to further 
the conservation and enhancement of the features by reason of which the site is designated and 
also to notify NRW of operations likely to damage such features in order that NRW may consent to 
or refuse permission for such operations. 
 
Abergelli Power Project - Phase 1 survey report 
 
42 
18/06/2014 
The Conservation of Habitats and Species Regulations 2010 
6.16 
The Conservation of Habitats and Species (Amendment) Regulations 2012 consolidates the 
various amendments that have been made to the Regulations. The original (1994) Regulations 
transposed the EC Habitats Directive on the Conservation of Natural Habitats and of Wild Fauna 
and Flora (Council Directive 92/43/EEC) into national law. 
6.17 
“European protected species” (EPS) are those which are present on Schedule 2 of the 
Conservation of Habitats and Species Regulations 2010. They are subject to the provisions of 
Regulation 41 of those Regulations. All EPS are also protected under the Wildlife and Countryside 
Act 1981 (as amended). Taken together, these pieces of legislation make it an offence to: 
a) Intentionally or deliberately capture, injure or kill any wild animal included amongst these 
species; 
b) Possess or control any live or dead specimens or any part of, or anything derived from a these 
species; 
c) Deliberately disturb wild animals of any such species; 
d) Deliberately take or destroy the eggs of such an animal; or 
e) Intentionally, deliberately or recklessly damage or destroy a breeding site or resting place of 
such an animal, or obstruct access to such a place. 
6.18 
For the purposes of paragraph (c), disturbance of animals includes in particular any disturbance 
which is likely— 
a) to impair their ability— 
I. 
to survive, to breed or reproduce, or to rear or nurture their young, or 
II. 
in the case of animals of a hibernating or migratory species, to hibernate or migrate; or 
6.19 
To affect significantly the local distribution or abundance of the species to which they belong. 
6.20 
Although the law provides strict protection to these species, it also allows this protection to be set 
aside (derogated) through the issuing of licences. The licences in England are currently determined 
by NE for development works. In accordance with the requirements of the Regulations (2012), a 
licence can only be issued where the following requirements are satisfied: 
a) The proposal is necessary ‘to preserve public health or public safety or other imperative 
reasons of overriding public interest including those of a social or economic nature and 
beneficial consequences of primary importance for the environment’; 
b) ‘There is no satisfactory alternative’; and 
c) The proposals ‘will not be detrimental to the maintenance of the population of the species 
concerned at a favourable conservation status in their natural range’. 
6.21 
EPS that may be relevant to this proposal include GCNs, bats, dormouse and otter. 
Invasive Species Legislation 
6.22 
Japanese knotweed and Himalayan balsam are both listed on Part 2, Schedule 9 of the Wildlife 
and Countryside Act 1981 (as amended).  Section 14 of the Act states that it is an offence for a 
person to plant or otherwise cause to grow in the wild any species listed on Part2, Schedule 9.  The 
Environmental Protection Act 1990 contains a number of legal provisions concerning ‘controlled 
waste’.  Any soil or plant material contaminated with Japanese knotweed that is to be discarded is 
classified as controlled waste. 
 
