Design Principles Document 
December 2014
1 
 
Contents  
 
 
 
Summary ........................................................................................................................................................................ 2 
Purpose of this Statement ............................................................................................................................................. 2 
Design Parameters ......................................................................................................................................................... 2 
Guidance Documents ..................................................................................................................................................... 3 
Additional Design Considerations................................................................................................................................... 3 
Public involvement and engagement .................................................................................................................. 3 
Design Review ................................................................................................................................................................. 4 
Design Principles ............................................................................................................................................................ 4 
 
 
 
Annexes 
 
Annex 1 Process Diagram for the discharge of the DCO Requirements 
 
Annex 2 Design Sheet – Power Generation Plant 
 
Annex 3 Design Sheet – Electrical Connection Compound 
 
 
 
 
 
2 
 
Summary  
 
This Design Principles Statement has been prepared in support of the application for a Development 
Consent Order submitted by Progress Power Limited.  It sets out Design Principles in accordance with which 
the Power Generation Plant, Above Ground Infrastructure and Electricity Connection Compound proposed 
by the Applicant will be constructed.   
  
Purpose of this Statement  
 
This statement supports the application for a Development Consent Order (DCO) submitted by Progress 
Power Limited for the development of a 299MW gas fired power station consisting of three main elements: 
the Power Generation Plant, Gas Connection (comprising a Gas Pipeline and Above Ground Installation) 
and Electrical Connection (comprising an underground Cable, Access Road and Electrical Connection 
Compound).  
 
The purpose of this document is to facilitate early engagement with the parties involved in the detailed 
design process and in particular to describe a set of outline design principles in order to support the 
discharge of Requirement 3 of the DCO. 
 
This Statement should be read alongside the Design and Access Statement (Document reference 10.2), 
and in the event of a conflict, this document should prevail.   
  
Design Parameters  
 
The Design and Access Statement (DAS) describes the factors that will influence the appearance of the 
Power Generation Plant and associated Electrical Connection Compound.   
 
This document ‘Design Principles Statement’ is to be read in conjunction with the Design and Access 
Statement (Document reference 10.2), the Interim Landscape Mitigation Strategy (Document reference 
10.6) (LMS) and the Outline Lighting Strategy (OLS) submitted to PINS for examination in order to 
demonstrate compliance with National Policy Statements (NPSs). 
 
It provides  design guidelines for the Power Generation Plant and Above Ground Installation (AGI) located 
on land within the former Eye airfield and Electrical Connection Compound proposed on farmland to the 
west of the A140. The principles contained in this document have been discussed with Suffolk County 
Council, Mid Suffolk District Council and the relevant Town and Parish Councils within the vicinity of the 
proposed development.   
 
 
3 
 
Guidance Documents  
 
The DAS submitted with the DCO application in March 2014, has been informed by relevant guidance 
including CABE’s guidelines ‘A Design-led Approach to Infrastructure’, and the findings of the 
Environmental Impact Assessment – in particular the landscape and visual impact assessment (refer to 
document 6.2, Environmental Statement section 11).  This document takes into consideration all the 
documents noted above.   
 
As stated in the National Policy Statement EN-1, ‘good design is also a means by which impacts can be 
mitigated’. The proposed Gas Fired Power Station and associated development at Eye is likely to have some 
residual impact and therefore the design, materials and massing of the proposed buildings, as well as 
mitigation measures, must demonstrate good design in respect of landscape and visual amenity. 
 
Additional Design Considerations  
 
The Eye Airfield Development Framework approved by Mid Suffolk District Council in February 2013 
contains planning design and access principles and makes recommendations in relation to the choice of 
building materials.  In November 2013 Mid Suffolk District Council adopted the Eye Airfield Planning 
Position Statement (Non-Statutory Planning Guidance) which confirmed the Council’s decision that the Eye 
Airfield Development Framework should guide future development on the airfield for both employment 
and housing on an interim basis.   
 
The Position Statement explains the constraints in the centre of Eye Airfield related to the existing Gas 
Compressor Station. The Power Generation Plant Site is identified on Map 4 of the Position Statement as 
‘Potential Infill Area – ‘safeguarded’ for ‘Energy Park that may include (a) Nationally Significant 
Infrastructure Project (NSIP) (Gas-fired Power Station and/or (b) SCC Waste Core Strategy EFW [Energy 
from Waste] site’, the former in recognition of the emerging Progress Power proposals. 
  
Public involvement and engagement  
 
 
PPL is committed to engagement with the local councils and residents, Mid Suffolk District Council and 
Suffolk County Council on the detailed design and landscaping proposals.  This engagement will take the 
form of at least two workshop sessions, jointly hosted by PPL and the District Council, and facilitated by an 
independent design professional.   
 
The initial workshop, to be held on appointment of the preferred contractor, would develop the 
understanding of local expectations for the quality and character of the new development which would be 
taken forward to the subsequent workshop which would consider draft detailed designs for each of the 
component parts of the development.  These workshops would be undertaken prior to the application to 
discharge the DCO Requirements for detailed design (Requirements 3 and 4).  Annex 1 contains a diagram 
which sets out the stages involved in discharging these DCO requirements.  
 
 
 
4 
 
Design Review  
 
In accordance with National Policy Statement EN-1 the detailed design of the development components 
will be subject to Design Review before any detailed submission is made to Mid Suffolk District Council.   
The submission will therefore be accompanied by evidence to show how having regard to any 
engineering/operational constraints, the design principles have been applied to the proposals, by an 
independent design review body with appropriate expertise.   
  
Design Principles  
 
The following design principles shall be applied, in addition to those set out in pages 39 – 43 of the DAS, to 
the detailed design of all aspects of the development.  These principles should be read in conjunction with 
the LMS and the OLS in particular.   
 
 
General Design Principles – these apply to all works 
1 
PPL is committed to undertaking a Design Review and to actively engaging with the local 
councils and residents, Mid Suffolk District Council and Suffolk County Council on the 
detailed design and landscaping proposals.   
2 
The detailed siting, design and layout of the proposed buildings and structures shall be 
undertaken in such a manner as to respond positively to the receiving environment.   
3 
The resultant buildings, structures and means of enclosure shall be sensitive to place and 
involve the use of appropriate recessive materials to minimise the visual impacts as far as 
possible though the careful use of colour and finishes.  All materials to be used shall be 
durable and functional for the 25 year operational period of the power station / 
electrical substation.      
4  
A Sustainable Drainage Strategy (SuDS) will be developed in accordance with DCO 
Requirement 8 relating to surface and foul water drainage and section 5 of the flood risk 
assessment. 
5 
A Lighting Scheme will be developed in accordance with DCO Requirement 18 relating to 
the control of artificial light emissions and the OLS.  
Power Generation Plant and Above Ground Installation Design Principles – these apply to works 
No. 1A, 1B, 1C, 1D, 2A, 2B and 3A 
6 
Structures within the PGP and AGI will be sited so as to minimise visual impacts from 
sensitive receptors.  In the event that less than five stacks are proposed at the PGP, 
consideration will be given to the arrangement and/or grouping of stacks so as to 
minimise visual impact by taking advantage of existing landscape features wherever 
possible.   
7 
The use of a single large building to accommodate the gas turbines shall be avoided so as 
to minimise the overall mass of the Power Generation Plant.   
 
 
5 
 
8 
The height of the exhaust stacks shall be kept to the absolute minimum required for 
operational purposes and shall not in any event exceed 30m height.  The colour and finish 
of the stacks will be neutral to avoid glare.  At no time shall the exhaust stacks be 
illuminated except for recognised safety purposes and at no time shall they display signage 
or other forms of advertisement.   
9 
The height of all buildings and structures shall be kept to a minimum and careful 
consideration will be given to roof lines and forms to minimise the visual impact of the 
upper elements of buildings and structures on the skyline. 
10 
All signage for the purposes of identification at the permanent access(es) will be designed 
and sited to avoid creating a distraction to users of the highway and to respect the 
amenities of the locality.   
11 
Vehicle parking and external storage areas shall be laid out and screened so as to minimise 
low level visual clutter and improve the outward appearance of the development.    
12 
Consideration will be given to the use of architectural details, curved forms and screening 
within the site to soften the appearance of buildings and structures.  
Electrical Connection Compound Design Principles- these apply to works No 5 and 7 
13 
The electricity sub-station and its associated buildings, structures and means of 
enclosure shall be sensitive to place and the receiving landscape to minimise its visual 
impact.  It shall be designed so as to minimise its impact upon agricultural activities, 
heritage assets, and ecological interests.   
14 
AIS Variant 
The design of the AIS compound will be such that it minimises visual impact by: 
 
siting infrastructure as far as is operationally practicable to provide a silhouette 
within the landscape; 
 
using non reflective insulators; and 
 
setting security fencing behind the landscaping. 
 
15 
GIS Switchgear and Administration Buildings 
In order to reduce the impact of the overall building composition consideration will be 
given to breaking up the facades and roof profiles into vertical sections through the use 
of materials and design details.   
16 
GIS Switchgear and Administration Buildings 
The external materials and shall be recessive in colour in order to assimilate the buildings 
into the surrounding landscape.  The roof material should be non-reflective and the colour 
and finish should minimise glare. 
17 
GIS Switchgear and Administration Buildings 
Consideration will be given to the incorporation of architectural features to add visual 
interest while acknowledging the need for simplicity in the form and design of the 
buildings to respect the surrounding landscape.   
18 
Access Road 
The access road will be designed according to National Grid’s standards and laid out in 
such a manner so as not to prejudice on-going farming operations.  Reasonable effort shall 
be made to ensure that the surfacing treatment responds to the local context to minimise 
landscape and visual effects.   
 
 
 
6 
 
ANNEXES  
 
Annex 1 
Process Diagram for the discharge of the DCO Requirements  
Annex 2 
A3 Design Sheet – Power Generation Plant 
Annex 3 
A3 Design Sheet – Electrical Connection Compound  
7 
 
Annex 1  
 
Process Diagram for the discharge of the DCO Requirements  
 
 
 
8 
 
 
Annex 2  
 
Power Generation Plant Design Sheet 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10 
 
Annex 3  
 
Electrical Connection Compound Design Sheet 
 
 
• 
The colour tones and profile orientation of the cladding will assist in blending  the building into the surrounding landscape.
• 
The Cladding scale and colour will be arranged vertically to ensure the buildings are grounded into the surrounding landscape and 
particularly against dense tree cover around the site boundary. This will also assist in minimise the long distant visual impact.
• 
The colour and profile of cladding will reflect the agricultural and rural nature of the surrounding landscape setting. The use of more 
earthy colours.
• 
The colour and finish will be neutral in finish and avoid glare.
• 
Recognition of the horizontal strata of existing landscape foreground and up to a raised platform which incorporates mature tree lines 
and hedgerows in the far distance.
• 
The visual reference for this design mitigation approach is that of agricultural farm building structures in the wider landscape.   
• 
Hard wearing robust materials recognise the hardworking industrial nature of the site to utilising colours particularly at the lower levels 
reflecting the mature landscape backdrop.
• 
Perimeter landscaping and land modelling around the perimeter assist in the visual mitigation particularly from mid and long 
distances.
For illustrative purposes only, final layout of site subject to change following detailed design
39
Progress Power Design & Access Statement
Analysis Component
Design Principle
Eye Airfield Principle
Built Form, Uses and Activities
Specify or design items of larger plant with 
consideration to their visual appearance in 
the local and wider landscape.
The proposed buildings, structures and perimeter security fencing shall be 
of high quality design.  
Materials used for cladding shall above all need to be durable and function-
al for operation for 25yrs in a power station environment.
The design should be such that it minimises visual impact and blends 
with the background and foreground as far as possible, with recessive 
colouring.
Consideration should be given to cladding in scale & grades of colour 
appropriate to the local surroundings, for the largest buildings, to minimise 
visibility in long distance views whilst adding visual interest at street level.
Built Form, Uses and Activities
Reinstate the routes of the gas and electrical 
connections with appropriate planting for 
their wider and local landscape and habitat 
setting, taking into account the need to avoid 
damage from roots.
Soft planting along connection routes should be reinstated in accordance 
with soil handling and reinstatement strategy to be developed as part of 
project CEMP and restored agricultural use.
Where existing trees or soft planting are lost, and cannot be replaced 
through tree planting due to restrictions above and adjacent to the pipeline. 
Appropriate planting should be reinstated to retain the linear feature and 
provide connectivity for wildlife.
Where inside the permanent easement of the Gas Connection, only shal-
low-rooting tree/shrub species should be used in order to avoid interfering 
with the installed Gas Connection.
Built Form, Uses and Activities
The use of soft landscaping should be maxi-
mised within the Power Generation Plant Site 
where safety and operational considerations 
allow.
Amenity planting should be used to enhance the character of the industrial 
estate. The design of perimeter security fencing and its alignment inside 
boundary structure planting should provide a ‘soft’ edge to the industrial 
development, and connect with adjacent trees and vegetation. Where safe 
and operationally feasible to do so, further planting within the interior of the 
site should be considered where it provides amenity to both passers by 
and users of the site itself.
40
Design Principles
Progress Power Design & Access Statement
Analysis Component
Design Principle
Eye Airfield Principle
Built Form, Uses and Activities
A landscaping scheme should be developed 
that ensures the site is designed and land-
scaped to complement the local and wider 
setting, and screen in identified views. 
Good quality trees shall be retained.
The approach to screen planting should seek to improve the amenity of the 
area and enhance biodiversity, and be carried out in accordance with the 
Landscape Strategy. Belts of trees along both western and southern edges 
of the site should be planted. The southern edge tree planting will link with 
the already mature adjacent plantation along the eastern boundary of the 
site. To the north of the site shrub planting will be planted. All re-instate-
ment planting should be native species.
Built Form, Uses and Activities
Lighting shall be appropriate to the local 
context, to create visual interest at the street 
level if appropriate but avoid 
lighting impacts upon identified habitats, 
neighbouring occupiers, and the wider 
landscape.
The scheme of lighting should minimise detrimental visual and 
environmental impacts. This would be achieved through appropriate 
placing, directionality, and technology of lighting and a preference for a 
greater number of lower level, building mounted lamps. Design choices 
for lighting should be made with a view to minimising the impact. Any 
development west of the A140 should be unlit, except for security and 
emergency purposes. 
Built Form, Uses and Activities
Stacks should be designed at a height which 
causes minimum visual impact whilst also 
allowing for adequate dispersion of stack 
emissions
The height of all plant should be minimised. The design of the project 
utilises technology (SGCT) that allows a significant reduction in stack height 
compared to other technology types. Stack shall be between 25m – 30m 
height and shall not be illuminated or contain signage or branding unless 
necessary for a recognised safety / operational requirement.
41
Progress Power Design & Access Statement
Built Form, Uses and Activities
The Power Generation Plant Site shall be laid 
out and maintained in a safe and attractive 
manner and which supports a positive public 
perception of the operation.
The main entrance and other permanent accesses shall have high quality 
branded signage so that visitors and passers-by can understand the use of 
the site.
Vehicle parking, storage areas and smaller structures shall be laid out 
and screened so as to minimise visual clutter and improve the safety and 
perception of safety of the site operation.
The visual impact of low level clutter should be effectively minimised 
through design, layout, bunding and planting.
The CEMP shall include measures for the maintenance of a tidy and 
contained site compound during construction
Built Form, Uses and Activities
The site layout shall consider the need to 
minimise noise and vibration impacts on the 
wider area.
Detailed design shall ensure that noise is mitigated as far as possible, 
through the Project Site layout and consideration of the orientation of plant 
items associated with higher sound power levels. Inherently quiet plant 
items shall be selected wherever practicable. Consideration shall be given 
to the use of silencers and housing plant items in acoustic enclosures 
where practicable.
Built Form, Uses and Activities
Consideration shall be given to the most 
appropriate choice of materials. Materials 
should be agreed with the local planning 
authority.
Materials chosen shall be robust, high quality and cost-effective. The 
architectural design, use of raw materials and colours of the buildings and 
structures on the Eye Airfield Site shall be designed to reduce glare and 
assimilate the Project into the surrounding landscape.
Movement and Connections 
Access
Ensure that access routes are appropriate for 
the vehicles that shall use them during site 
construction and operation
Re-use existing entrances to provide adequate operational and safety 
access.
Design of new access track for the AGI shall minimise hard standing area 
and grassland loss whilst remaining clear for the necessary vehicles to 
access. 
Where removed for construction works, roadway and footpath shall be 
reinstated with a durable and well-finished surface
Movement and Connections 
Access
The design should be accessible to existing 
public transport routes and mitigate any 
significant transport impacts
Vehicle parking shall be adequate for workers and visitors to the site and 
shall include a fully accessible space for a disabled worker or visitor, and 
be proximate to buildings they serve.
Analysis Component
Design Principle
Eye Airfield Principle
42
Design Principles
Progress Power Design & Access Statement
Analysis Component
Design Principle
Eye Airfield Principle
Landscape/
Environmental suitability
Landscaping proposals should be appropri-
ate to the context of the individual elements 
of the scheme.
Landscaping around the Electrical Connection Compound should minimise 
the visual intrusion and complement local landscape character; particularly 
in relation to species choice. Orientation of the planting must complement 
and enhance the historic boundary pattern of the receiving landscape.
Landscaping around the Power Generation Plant should be designed to 
ensure visual continuity with the planting scheme used to conceal the 
National Grid Gas Compressor Station.
Wider opportunities to reinforce the character of the landscape and reduce 
visual impacts within the Project Site boundary should be explored.
Opportunities for offsite landscaping will be investigated to provide both 
additional landscape and visual amenity enhancement measures. 
Landscape/
Environmental suitability
Retain and reinforce boundary tree planting 
where trees are found to be of good/retain-
able quality.
The design shall take into account the 
provision of robust fencing around the site to 
ensure safety of the site.
The design of perimeter security fencing and its alignment inside boundary 
structure planting shall provide a ‘soft’ edge to the industrial development, 
and connect with adjacent trees and vegetation. 
Amenity planting shall be used to enhance the character of the industrial 
estate.
Natural surveillance shall be facilitated through the location of the gate-
house and the use of chain link or weld mesh fence where safe to do so, in 
preference to solid hedge or wall.
Trees should be maintained/selected  to have a canopy no lower than 
around 1.8m to allow some short / angled views in and out of the site 
whilst acting as screening to taller and more distant structures within the 
site.
43
Progress Power Design & Access Statement
Landscape/
Environmental suitability
Minimise impacts on existing habitats and 
species within the site.
The design of landscape planting should enhance the area’s biodiversity 
through: the retention of existing trees & bushes; the planting of belts of 
broadleaved woodland to increase the amount of natural green landscape 
in the area; the reinstatement of planting where possible and appropriate; 
and careful management of soils.
The routeing and installation of the utility connections should minimise the 
impact on existing landscape and ecological features and the sterilisation 
of land – careful routing and/or Horizontal Direct Drilling (HDD) or similar 
methods should be used where possible.
Landscape/
Environmental suitability
The layout and landscaping shall be 
designed to minimise all aspects of water 
usage where operationally appropriate, 
thus process, sanitation and irrigation water 
usage.
The design of the site shall include the strategic placement of soil bunds 
and design considerations for access roads in order to avoid funnelling 
surface water or affecting surface water quality off site.
Sustainable drainage systems will be used to manage surface water runoff 
and if possible create new habitat for wildlife. Water use should be mini-
mised. Irrigation systems, making use of captured rainfall, may be included 
within the landscaping to ensure that it is effective.
Landscape/
Environmental suitability
The layout and landscaping design to take  
of cognisance historical and established 
topography and landscape pattern.
Landscaping proposals should be sympathetic to the historic character of 
the landscape, in their alignment, scale and composition.
The impact on the setting of listed buildings and conservation areas should 
be fully evaluated and mitigated for.
Analysis Component
Design Principle
Eye Airfield Principle
