  
 
 
Progress Power ‘Meet the Team’ briefing session 
Eye Community Centre – Monday 30th October, 6.30pm 
 
Attendees 
 
Suffolk County Council: Cllr Guy McGregor (Hoxne & Eye)  
Mid Suffolk District Council: Cllr David Burn (Palgrave) 
Brome and Oakley Parish Council: Cllr Ursula Halton 
Eye Town Council: Cllr Richard Berry; Cllr Andrew Evitt 
Mellis Parish Council: Cllr Diana Kearsley 
Yaxley Parish Council: Cllr John Hawes; Cllr Ian Luff 
Eye Neighbourhood Plan Group: Peter Gould 
Suffolk Preservation Society: Phil Butler 
 
Landowners and agents: Mr Richard Hammond; Mrs Julie Hammond; Mrs Jacobs; Mr 
Jacobs; Mr Graham Ford; Mr Robert Bryce; Ms Eleanor Havers; Mr Nick Durrant; Mr Jack 
Glover 
 
Drax Group plc: Thaleia Melliou; Duncan Thew; Robert Warren; Matt Wiley 
National Grid Company plc: Belinda Farrelly; Aileen Smith; Steve Knight-Gregson; 
Matthew Bell; James Dear  
Invited/apologies: Thrandeston Parish Council; Cllr Michael Burke (MSDC, Eye) 
 
Introduction 
 
TM (Drax) gave an overview of current activities re. discharging the Development 
Consent Order (DCO) requirements, archaeology and unexploded ordinance (UXO) 
surveys. 
 
Changes to the power plant design 
 
DT (Drax) talked through a potential 3D aerial visualisation of the proposed power 
station, noting that the gatehouse was not required, there would be a single stack 
with height of 35m (compliant with the DCO requirement) and that the design review 
process will address aspects such as colour cladding profile, fencing type and colour. 
The landscaping proposals were being worked on at present building on the outline 
scheme. 
 
Drax were asked if there are plans to use the southern section and if that area could 
be given over to the local community to develop as an environmental resource. TM 
explained that some of the area may be needed for future maintenance and that it’s 
too early at the moment to say if part of it could be given over to the local community. 
 
Drax suggested that the northwest corner of the site where no archaeology 
excavation will take place and findings will be preserved “in situ” might be set aside 
for wildlife or similar use. This will be included in the Drax landscaping propositions.  
  
 
 
TCPA application in support of the Access Road construction 
 
RW (Drax) explained that there will shortly be a planning application to Mid Suffolk 
for hedge removal for the new access off the A140 and junction construction.  The 
work to hedgerows will take place before 1 March to address bird nesting 
considerations.  Some sections need to be removed, but others may only be 
coppiced/lopped to provide adequate sight lines. 
 
It was queried whether users of Leys Lane, in particular horse riders (as well as dog 
walkers), will be able to use the highway safely during access road construction 
works.  Drax explained that maintenance of public access will be included within the 
Construction Traffic Management Plan submission. 
 
National Grid update on substation  
 
AS (NGC) gave an update on the National Grid works, explaining that it has been 
possible to reduce the size of the electricity substation and height of equipment 
therein compared to that consented through the DCO, resulting in: 
o A 40% smaller Gas Insulated Substation (GIS) building 
o Likely smaller substation footprint 
o 12.2m high gantries compared to 12.5m 
o 10m high GIS building compared to 12-13m in the DCO 
o A replacement pylon 55m high compared to 58m in DCO 
 
The group discussed the design of the substation building. Local community 
representatives voiced their expectations from early design discussions with 
Progress Power and the Design Principles Document that it would look like a barn. A 
number of participants sought reassurance that the objectives of the design 
principles would be implemented. 
 
AS explained that design details will form part of the design workshops that are 
planned to start in January next year. NGC committed to provide further design 
information (in the form of a 3D model) ahead of the first workshop in order for this to 
be circulated or shared to the community. 
 
Drax also suggested a “pre-meet” or “introduction” to the design workshops where 
parties could discuss design principles, set out the process for the subsequent 
workshops and also use the 3D visuals (if already available by that point) as the 
basis for their conversation. The meeting participants were open to the idea as way 
to facilitate a more constructive discussion. 
 
Design workshops and other key dates 
 
TM (Drax) noted that a provisional date of 17 January had been identified for the first 
design workshop with local community representatives and that there would be a 
second design workshop with local authority officers. RW (Drax) also explained that 
there will be some independent design review input to this and that Drax are now 
exploring this with the Design Council who will appoint an independent Design 
Review expert. 
 
The local community representatives asked that revised proposals are circulated 
following the first workshop for further review and comment. Drax agreed that the 
  
 
 
community representatives would be involved in both the first and the second 
workshop.  
 
Drax outlined some key project dates, subject to the capacity auction’s successful 
outcome: 
o Capacity auction – 6 February 2018 
o Appoint contractors – end March 2018 
o Complete substation access road and allow NGC access to substation site – 
1 Dec 2018 
o Break ground at main power station site – as early as 1 December 2018 
 
Drax highlighted the intention to form a local liaison group to convene regularly 
during the construction period and discuss construction-related issues that may be of 
interest to community members.  
 
Drax explained that an initial meeting would be held before construction commences 
and that the PCs meeting was the vehicle for community liaison until then. The 
community representatives agreed that forming a local liaison group would be both 
beneficial and necessary. 
 
Progress Power Community Benefit Fund 
 
TM (Drax) detailed the terms and conditions of the PPL Community Benefit Fund 
which will become available to the local communities to manage and spend on 
worthy causes that benefit local members. Drax stressed their intention to keep this a 
local fund and not over-extend the list of communities to be benefited to any other 
than the ones in direct vicinity to the project.  Meeting participants agreed with this 
suggestion and welcomed the agreement.  
 
Drax explained that the latest draft is in the hands of the Suffolk County Council and 
Mid Suffolk District Council planning officers and they will be sharing this with parish 
councils in time. 
