 
 
Drax Foundation eligibility criteria - 2023  
 
Drax Foundation – eligibility criteria for applicants 
 
The Drax Foundation is a donor advised fund set-up by Drax Corporate Limited (“Drax”) and operated on Drax’s 
behalf by the Charities Trust (an independently registered charity with the UK Charity Commission, Charity No. 
327489). The Drax Foundation provides grant funding for projects and programmes that deliver lasting socio-
economic change in the regions where Drax operates. Drax prioritises organisations that can demonstrate an 
in-depth understanding of local conditions, and who represent the diversity of our local communities. 
 
Drax.foundation@drax.com  
Eligibility criteria 
Ineligibility criteria 
Applications must meet the following criteria prior 
to applying 
 
1. 
Must be e a registered charity or formally constituted 
non-profit organization or social enterprise 
2. 
Must address a significant societal need and make a 
positive contribution in the regions where Drax 
operates. 
3. 
Must be able to show a commitment to sustainable 
development (e.g., by contributing to the UN 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)) 
4. 
Must have clear objects and measurable targets and 
outcomes.  
5. 
Applicants must have been operating for a minimum 
of 12 months at the time of applying, and have 
available published financial data 
6. 
Must contribute to at least one of the following of 
Drax Foundation’s focus areas: 
a. 
STEM education and skills development; 
and/or  
b. 
enhancing biodiversity and green spaces in 
local communities.  
7. 
In addition to core focus areas, we prioritise projects 
and organizations that also contribute to the 
following: 
a. 
advancing gender equality;  
b. 
supporting indigenous communities; and 
c. 
supporting underserved groups 
8. 
To the extent the applicant supports children or 
vulnerable people, the applicant must have a 
safeguarding policy. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Applications are not valid in relation to the 
following  
 
1. 
Projects that do not align with the Drax Foundation’s 
focus areas. 
2. 
Retrospective funding for projects that have already 
taken place. 
3. 
Individual sponsorships, personal appeals or 
proposals that will benefit only one person.  
4. 
Organisations, programs, or projects that: 
d. 
advocate for or against any political party 
affiliation, ideology, or campaign, or any 
legislation or government policy. 
e. 
advocate for or against any religion or faith;  
f. 
discriminate or restrict services based on 
gender, race, religion, creed, national origin, 
ethnicity, sexual orientation, age, disability, or 
any other basis prohibited by law;  
g. 
directly or indirectly, engage in, support, or 
promote any offensive, obscene or sexually 
suggestive material, propaganda, potentially 
misleading information, or defamatory or 
disparaging material about other people or 
companies or endorse any form of hate, hate 
group or terrorist activities; 
h. 
promote any activities that may be unsafe or 
dangerous or considered gaming, betting, or 
gambling or relate to raffles, prize draws, games 
of chance, lotteries, or similar activities. 
i. 
are for commercial use or promotion.  
5. 
Projects that are unable to start within twelve 
months of the grant award date.  
6. 
Any organisations or individuals other than registered 
charities or formally constituted non-profit 
organisations or social enterprises based in the UK, 
US, or Canada. 
