Supplier Code of Conduct
DRAX - SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT
2
Message from our 
Chief Executive, 
Will Gardiner
Drax Group (“Drax”) is committed to conducting 
business in accordance with all applicable laws, 
rules and regulations and in line with the Drax 
Code of Conduct, which can be found at  
www.drax.com. We are dedicated to doing the 
right thing and seek only to work with suppliers 
whose standards are consistent with our own.
Commitment to 
this Code
On this basis, our suppliers are required to 
carry out their business in accordance with 
all applicable laws, rules and regulations 
and to comply with this Supplier Code of 
Conduct (“Code”) when working for Drax.  
The Code reflects the principles and 
behaviours contained within the Drax 
Code of Conduct.
Our suppliers are also expected to ensure 
that their own suppliers operate in line 
with the standards within this Code, where 
involved in activities on behalf of Drax.
Speaking Up 
Reporting Concerns
We take non-compliance with this Code seriously. If a supplier or any 
third party has a concern that this Code has not been complied with, 
they are encouraged to raise this with Drax, directly through our:  
2
Business Ethics Team 
Email: speak.up@drax.com 
Telephone: +44 (0)7718 570169 / (0)7515 579703  
Whistleblowing Officer  
Email: CompanySecretary@drax.com 
Telephone: +44 (0)7936 362586 
Or, through our independently operated  
Speak Up service (anonymously if preferred):  
Telephone numbers: www.safecall.co.uk/freephone  
Web portal link: www.safecall.co.uk/report 
Suppliers are encouraged to provide a similar 
anonymous service for their supply chain to raise  
such concerns.
1
3
BACK
NEXT
LAST PAGE
DRAX - SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT
3
The Law  
Suppliers are required to comply with all applicable laws, rules and regulations 
in the countries in which they operate. Where appropriate, suppliers must also 
comply with all relevant maritime laws, regulations, permits and international 
maritime standards. Suppliers must avoid any actions that could lead Drax to 
breach or be subject to penalties under applicable law. 
Health and Safety
Suppliers must, in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, provide 
a safe and healthy working environment for their employees, and provide 
their employees with appropriate training and sufficient personal protective 
equipment, taking into account the inherent risks in the sector. Adequate health 
and safety management and controls must be implemented.
Environment 
Suppliers must comply with all applicable environmental laws, regulations and 
permits in the countries in which they operate and reduce the impacts of their 
operations on the local environment and community.    
Suppliers should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 
and initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility.  
Positive Social Impact 
Suppliers are expected to respect the rights, interests and development 
aspirations of the communities in which they operate, particularly during 
significant changes to the supplier’s normal operations. 
Privacy, Protection and Confidentiality
Suppliers must obtain, save, process, hold, disclose and transfer personal 
information in line with all applicable laws and regulations and must safeguard 
Drax’s confidential information.
Human Rights 
Suppliers must not breach any internationally proclaimed human rights in the 
countries in which they operate or be complicit in the breach of such rights by 
third parties, including their governments.   
Supplier Code of Conduct Standards
BACK
NEXT
LAST PAGE
DRAX - SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT
4
Labour 
Suppliers must not engage underage workers (as defined by applicable local 
laws) or any workers subject to human trafficking, or use any form of slavery, 
forced or compulsory labour (which consists of any work or service not 
voluntarily performed that is exacted from the individual under threat of force 
or penalty). Suppliers must not engage in any activity, practice or conduct that 
does, or would – if such activity, practice or conduct were carried out in the UK – 
constitute an offence under the Modern Slavery Act 2015. 
Suppliers must not discriminate in respect of employment and occupation and 
must treat their workers with dignity and respect.  
Suppliers must comply with all applicable laws in relation to working hours and 
remuneration and must respect the rights of their employees to freely associate 
and bargain collectively.
Suppliers should promote diversity and inclusion within their workforce.
Bribery, Corruption and Financial Crime
Suppliers must uphold high standards of business ethics and not engage in 
illegal activities such as corruption, bribery, fraud, extortion, money laundering 
or tax evasion, or conduct their dealings in ways that are unethical or contrary 
to professional practice. Suppliers are expected to have adequate procedures in 
place to counter such issues. 
Suppliers must avoid conflicts of interest that may compromise their credibility 
with Drax or the confidence of others in Drax. If such conflicts arise or appear to 
arise, suppliers must mitigate them and promptly report them to Drax. 
Economic and Trade Sanctions 
Suppliers must refrain from taking any action that would result in a violation of 
economic or trade sanctions. 
Fair Competition 
Suppliers must respect and comply with all applicable competition laws 
and regulations, including not entering into discussions or agreements with 
competitors concerning pricing, market sharing or similar activities.
Due Diligence 
Suppliers are expected to conduct appropriate and proportionate due diligence on 
parties in their own supply chain, particularly when sourcing from high-risk areas.
BACK
NEXT
LAST PAGE
DRAX - SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT
5
Drax seeks to work in partnership with others to strengthen our approach to 
ethical business conduct.  
UN Global Compact (UNGC)
Drax is a participant of the UNGC, which is a voluntary corporate sustainability 
initiative that encourages businesses worldwide to adopt sustainable and 
socially responsible practices. Drax encourages its suppliers to align their 
practices with the UNGC’s ten principles, which include areas such as human 
rights and labour standards. Further information on the UNGC can be found on 
its website: www.unglobalcompact.org. 
UK Real Living Wage (RLW)
Drax pays all UK colleagues the equivalent of the RLW (as a minimum) and 
encourages its suppliers operating in the UK to do the same. Further information 
on the RLW can be found at: www.livingwage.org.uk.
Continuous Improvement
BACK
NEXT
LAST PAGE
