THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION. If you are in any doubt as to the action you 
should take you are recommended to seek your own financial advice from your stockbroker, solicitor, accountant or other 
independent professional adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have sold or transferred all of your holding of ordinary shares in Drax Group plc please forward this document and the 
accompanying documents (but not the personalised Form of Proxy), as soon as possible, to the purchaser or the transferee or to 
the person through whom the sale or transfer was effected for transmission to the purchaser or the transferee.
DRAX GROUP PLC  
NOTICE OF THE  
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (AGM)
TO BE HELD AT 12.30PM ON WEDNESDAY 26 APRIL 2023 
AT ETC.VENUES ST PAUL’S, 200 ALDERSGATE, LONDON, EC1A 4HD
For shareholders, a Form of Proxy is enclosed with this document. Whether or not you propose to attend the AGM (either in person or 
online), you are requested to complete and submit a Form of Proxy to the Company’s Registrars, Equiniti Limited, at Aspect House, 
Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA to arrive by no later than 12.30pm on Monday 24 April 2023.
If you hold shares in CREST you may appoint a proxy by completing and transmitting a CREST proxy instruction to Equiniti Limited 
(CREST participant ID RA19) so that it is received by no later than 12.30pm on Monday 24 April 2023.
The return of a completed Form of Proxy or CREST proxy instruction will not prevent you from attending the AGM and voting on the 
day if you wish to do so.
Contents and expected timetable  
of principal events 2023
Contents
This document contains:
Page
Part A Letter from the Chair
1
Part B Notice of the Annual General Meeting
3
Part C Explanatory notes to the Notice of the AGM
5
Part D Administrative notes relating to the AGM
9
Part E Definitions
13
Part F Skills and experience of the Board
14
Appendix 1 – Information for the day: User guide to joining the AGM online
16
Expected timetable of principal events 2023
Record date for entitlement to the final dividend
21 April
Latest time for receipt of Forms of Proxy and CREST proxy instructions to be valid at the AGM
12.30pm on 24 April
AGM
12.30pm on 26 April
Dispatch of the final dividend warrants and tax vouchers
18 May
Payment date for the final dividend
19 May
 
 
Drax Group plc Notice of Annual General Meeting 2023 
1
Part A  
Letter from the Chair
16 March 2023
Dear Shareholder,
Annual General Meeting (AGM)
I am pleased to enclose the Notice of the AGM of Drax Group plc (the Company or Drax), which will be held at 12.30pm on Wednesday 
26 April 2023 at etc.venues St Paul’s, 200 Aldersgate, London EC1A 4HD. The Notice of the AGM is set out in Part B on pages 3 and 4. 
I am very pleased to be able to invite you to attend the meeting either in person or online by logging on to https://web.lumiagm.com. 
A user guide detailing the arrangements on how to join, submit questions and vote at the meeting online is set out in Appendix 1 
on pages 16 and 17.
Your vote is important to us. All votes will be by poll, which means that each share carries one vote and all votes count, and we strongly 
encourage you to vote in advance or to appoint the Chair as your proxy by submitting your enclosed Form of Proxy by post or 
electronically as further detailed in Part D on pages 9 to 12.
Explanatory notes
The explanatory notes to the Resolutions are set out in Part C on pages 5 to 8.
Annual Report and Accounts
A copy of the Company’s Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2022 is now available on our website at 
www.drax.com/investors/announcements-events-reports/annual-reports-and-accounts/. Our website is one of the means by which 
we communicate with our shareholders. As well as the Annual Report and Accounts, you can find further information about our 
carbon negative ambitions and progress, our approach to sustainability, the latest news and press releases, investor presentations and 
dividend history. You can sign up for news alerts about Drax on our website www.drax.com by selecting ‘Subscribe’.
If you have requested to receive a hard copy of the Annual Report and Accounts, this is enclosed. If you no longer wish to receive a 
hard copy, and instead wish to receive communications electronically, please contact our Registrar, Equiniti, on 0371 384 2030 from 
within the UK or +44 121 415 7047 from outside the UK (lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday – excluding public 
holidays in England and Wales).
Any changes to the arrangements for the meeting will also be communicated to shareholders via our website as soon as possible, and 
shareholders are encouraged to monitor www.drax.com/investors/announcements-events-reports/agms-and-general-meetings/ 
for updates.
Registered Office:  
Drax Power Station  
Selby  
North Yorkshire  
YO8 8PH  
Registered in England and Wales  
Number 5562053
Directors
Philip Cox CBE (Chair) 
Will Gardiner (CEO) 
Andy Skelton (CFO) 
David Nussbaum 
Erika Peterman 
John Baxter CBE 
Kim Keating 
Nicola Hodson 
Vanessa Simms
2 
Drax Group plc Notice of Annual General Meeting 2023
Proposed new Directors’ Remuneration Policy (Policy)
The Policy sets out the Company’s forward-looking policy on Directors’ remuneration and is subject to a binding shareholder vote by 
ordinary resolution at least once every three years. Drax has continued to evolve since the last full review of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy in 2020.
To ensure that our approach to remuneration supports the strategy, in 2022 the Remuneration Committee undertook a full review 
of the existing policy, taking into account the Group’s ambitious growth strategy, shareholder feedback on the current policy, the UK 
Corporate Governance Code and wider best practice. Our principal aims are to ensure that executive pay is closely linked to Group 
performance, underpins our purpose of enabling a zero carbon, lower cost energy future and aligns reward with delivering 
the strategy.
Following this review, we are inviting you to approve our proposed new Policy this year, further details of which can be found on pages 
135 to 146 of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Action to be taken
Ordinary shareholders
Whether or not you propose to attend the AGM in person or online, you are requested to:
(a)  complete and sign the enclosed Form of Proxy in accordance with the instructions printed thereon. Completed Forms of Proxy 
should be returned to Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA as soon as possible and in 
any event so as to be received by Equiniti Limited no later than 12.30pm on Monday 24 April 2023; or
(b)  register the appointment of your proxy electronically at www.sharevote.co.uk. You will need your Voting ID, Task ID and 
Shareholder Reference Number (this is the series of numbers printed on your Form of Proxy). Alternatively, if you have already 
registered with Equiniti’s online portfolio service, Shareview, you can submit your Form of Proxy at www.shareview.co.uk using 
your usual user ID and password. Full instructions are given on both websites and your Form of Proxy must be received by no later 
than 12.30pm on Monday 24 April 2023.
If you hold shares in CREST you may appoint a proxy by completing and transmitting a CREST proxy instruction to Equiniti Limited 
(CREST participant ID RA19) so that it is received by no later than 12.30pm on Monday 24 April 2023.
The return of a completed Form of Proxy will not prevent you from attending and voting at the AGM in person or online should you 
choose to do so.
Voting arrangements
Voting on each of the Resolutions to be put to the AGM will be by poll so that all votes are included whether or not the shareholder 
is able to attend the meeting.
The results of the voting at the meeting will be announced to the London Stock Exchange as soon as practicable following the meeting 
and will also appear on the Company’s website www.drax.com/investors/announcements-events-reports/regulatory-news-alerts/.
The Company has included on the Form of Proxy a ‘Vote withheld’ option in order for shareholders to abstain from voting on any 
particular Resolution. You should note, however, that a ‘Vote withheld’ is not a vote in law and will not be counted in determining the 
proportion of votes cast ‘For’ and ‘Against’ a Resolution on a poll.
Recommendation
The Directors of the Company consider that the Resolutions to be put to shareholders at the AGM are in the best interests of the 
Company and its members as a whole.
Accordingly, the Directors unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of all the proposed Resolutions as they intend to do so 
in respect of their own beneficial interests.
Yours sincerely
Philip Cox CBE 
Chair
Letter from the Chair continued
 
 
Drax Group plc Notice of Annual General Meeting 2023 
3
Part B 
Notice of the Annual General Meeting
Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting (AGM) 
of Drax Group plc (the Company) will be held at 12.30pm on 
Wednesday 26 April 2023 at etc.venues St Paul’s, 200 
Aldersgate, London EC1A 4HD.
The shareholders of the Company are asked to consider and, if 
thought fit, pass Resolutions 1 to 17 as ordinary Resolutions, and 
to consider and, if thought fit, pass Resolutions 18, 19, 20 and 21 
as special Resolutions.
1. To receive the Annual Report and Accounts of the Company 
for the year ended 31 December 2022, including (i) the 
Directors’ report; (ii) the Strategic report; and (iii) the report of 
the auditor of the Company on those audited accounts and 
the auditable part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
2. To approve the annual statement to shareholders by the Chair 
of the Remuneration Committee and the Annual Report on 
Remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2022 set out 
on pages 127 to 157 of the Annual Report and Accounts.
3. To approve the Directors’ Remuneration Policy set out on 
pages 136 to 146 of the Annual Report and Accounts.
4. To approve the final dividend of 12.6 pence per share for the 
year ended 31 December 2022, payable to shareholders who 
are on the register of members (Register) of the Company at 
6.30pm on 21 April 2023.
5. To re-elect Philip Cox as a Director of the Company.
6. To re-elect Will Gardiner as a Director of the Company.
7. To re-elect Andy Skelton as a Director of the Company.
8. To re-elect David Nussbaum as a Director of the Company.
9. To re-elect Erika Peterman as a Director of the Company.
10. To re-elect John Baxter as a Director of the Company.
11. To re-elect Kim Keating as a Director of the Company.
12. To re-elect Nicola Hodson as a Director of the Company.
13. To re-elect Vanessa Simms as a Director of the Company.
14. To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditor of the Company to hold 
office from the conclusion of the 2023 AGM until the 
conclusion of the next meeting at which accounts are laid 
before the Company.
15. To authorise the Directors to determine the auditor’s 
remuneration.
16. That in accordance with Sections 366 and 367 of the 
Companies Act 2006 (CA 2006), the Company and all of the 
companies that are or become subsidiaries of the Company 
from time to time during the period for which this Resolution 
is effective are authorised to:
a. make political donations to political parties and/or 
independent election candidates, as defined in Sections 
363 and 364 CA 2006, not exceeding £100,000 in total; 
and/or
b. make political donations to political organisations other 
than political parties, as defined in Sections 363 and 364 
CA 2006, not exceeding £100,000 in total; and/or
c. incur political expenditure, as defined in Section 365 CA 
2006, not exceeding £100,000 in total, 
 
in each case provided that the aggregate amount of any such 
donations and expenditure shall not exceed £125,000.
 
This authority shall commence on the date of the passing 
of this Resolution and remain in force until the conclusion of 
the 2024 AGM (or, if earlier, until the close of business on 
30 June 2024).
17. That in substitution for all subsisting authorities, to the extent 
unused, the Directors be and they are hereby generally and 
unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 551 
CA 2006 to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot 
shares in the Company and to grant rights to subscribe for, 
or to convert any security into, shares in the Company:
a. up to an aggregate nominal amount of £15,444,255 
(such amount to be reduced by the nominal amount of any 
equity securities (as defined in Section 560 CA 2006) 
allotted or granted under paragraph (b) of this Resolution 
in excess of £15,444,255); and
b. comprising equity securities (within the meaning of 
Section 560 CA 2006) up to an aggregate nominal 
amount of £30,888,510 (such amount to be reduced by 
the aggregate nominal amount of any shares allotted or 
rights granted under paragraph (a) of this Resolution) in 
connection with an offer by way of a rights issue:
i. 
to ordinary shareholders in proportion (as nearly as 
may be practicable) to their existing holdings; and
ii. to holders of other equity securities as required by the 
rights of those securities or as the Directors otherwise 
consider necessary, and so that the Directors may 
impose any limits or restrictions and make any 
arrangements which they consider necessary or 
appropriate to deal with treasury shares, fractional 
entitlements or securities represented by depositary 
receipts, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical 
problems in, or under the laws of, any territory or the 
requirements of any regulatory body or stock 
exchange or any other matter.
 
The authorities conferred on the Directors under paragraphs 
(a) and (b) above shall commence on the date of the passing 
of this Resolution and remain in force until the conclusion 
of the 2024 AGM (or, if earlier, until the close of business on 
30 June 2024), save that under each authority the Company 
may, before such expiry, make an offer or agreement which 
would or might require shares to be allotted or rights to 
subscribe for, or to convert any security into, shares to be 
granted after such expiry and the Directors may allot shares 
or grant rights to subscribe for, or to convert any security into, 
shares (as the case may be) in pursuance of such an offer 
or agreement as if the relevant authority conferred hereby 
had not expired.
4 
Drax Group plc Notice of Annual General Meeting 2023
18. That, if Resolution 17 above is passed, the Directors be 
authorised to allot equity securities (as defined in CA 2006) 
for cash under the authority conferred by Resolution 17 and/or 
to sell ordinary shares held by the Company as treasury shares 
for cash as if Section 561 CA 2006 did not apply to any such 
allotment or issue, such authority to be limited:
a. to the allotment of equity securities in connection with an 
offer of equity securities (but in the case of the authority 
granted under paragraph (b) of Resolution 17, by way of a 
rights issue only):
i. 
to ordinary shareholders in proportion (as nearly as 
may be practicable) to their existing holdings; and
ii. to holders of other equity securities as required by the 
rights of those securities or as the Directors otherwise 
consider necessary, and so that the Directors may 
impose any limits or restrictions and make any 
arrangements which they consider necessary or 
appropriate to deal with any treasury shares, fractional 
entitlements or securities represented by depositary 
receipts, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical 
problems in, or under the laws of, any territory or the 
requirements of any regulatory body or stock 
exchange or any other matter; and
b. to the allotment of equity securities or sale of treasury 
shares (otherwise than under paragraph (a) of this 
Resolution 18) up to a nominal amount of £4,633,277
 
such authority to expire at the end of the 2024 AGM (or, if 
earlier, until the close of business on 30 June 2024) but, prior 
to its expiry the Company may make offers, and enter into 
agreements, which would, or might, require equity securities 
to be allotted (and treasury shares to be sold) after the 
authority expires and the Directors may allot equity securities 
(and sell treasury shares) under any such offer or agreement 
as if the authority had not expired.
19. That, if Resolution 17 above is passed, the Directors be 
authorised in addition to any authority granted under 
Resolution 18 above, to allot equity securities (as defined in 
CA 2006) for cash under the authority conferred by 
Resolution 17 and/or to sell ordinary shares held by the 
Company as treasury shares for cash as if Section 561 CA 
2006 did not apply to any such allotment or sale, such 
authority to be limited to the allotment of equity securities 
or sale of treasury shares up to an aggregate nominal amount 
of £4,633,277, such authority to be used only for the purposes 
of financing (or refinancing, if the authority is to be used 
within 12 months after the original transaction) a transaction 
which the Board of the Company determines to be either 
an acquisition or a specified capital investment of a kind 
contemplated by the Pre-Emption Group’s Statement of 
Principles as revised in November 2022, such authority to 
expire at the end of the 2024 AGM (or, if earlier, until the close 
of business on 30 June 2024) but, in each case, prior to its 
expiry the Company may make offers, and enter into 
agreements which would, or might, require equity securities 
to be allotted (and treasury shares to be sold) after the 
authority expires and the Directors may allot equity securities 
(and sell treasury shares) under any such offer or agreement 
as if the authority had not expired.
20. That the Company be and is hereby generally and 
unconditionally authorised for the purposes of Section 701 CA 
2006, to make market purchases (within the meaning of 
Section 693(4) CA 2006) of ordinary shares with nominal value 
of 11 16/29 pence each in the capital of the Company (ordinary 
shares) on such terms and in such manner as the Directors of 
the Company shall from time to time determine, provided that:
a. the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares 
hereby authorised to be purchased is 40,108,970;
b. the minimum price (exclusive of expenses) which may be 
paid for an ordinary share is its nominal value; and
c. the maximum price (exclusive of expenses) which may be 
paid for an ordinary share is not more than the higher of:
i. 
an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle 
market quotations of an ordinary share (as derived 
from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List) 
for the five business days immediately preceding the 
date on which that ordinary share is contracted to be 
purchased; and
ii. the amount stipulated by Article 5(6) of the Market 
Abuse Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 as onshored into 
UK law on 31 December 2020 by the European Union 
(Withdrawal) Act 2018.
d. the authority hereby conferred shall commence on the 
date of the passing of this Resolution and remain in force 
until the conclusion of the 2024 AGM (or, if earlier, until 
the close of business on 30 June 2024), unless previously 
revoked, varied or renewed by the Company in general 
meeting; and
e. the Company may at any time prior to the expiry of such 
authority enter into a contract or contracts under which a 
purchase of ordinary shares under such authority will or 
might be completed or executed wholly or partly after the 
expiration of such authority and the Company may 
purchase ordinary shares in pursuance of any such 
contract or contracts as if the authority conferred hereby 
had not expired.
21. That a general meeting of the Company, other than an AGM, 
may be called on not less than 14 clear days’ notice.
 
 By order of the Board
 
 Brett Gladden 
Group Company Secretary 
Drax Group plc, 
Drax Power Station,  
Selby, 
North Yorkshire,  
YO8 8PH
 
16 March 2023
Notice of the Annual General Meeting continued
 
 
Drax Group plc Notice of Annual General Meeting 2023 
5
Resolution 1
To receive the Company’s Annual Report and Accounts
The Directors are required to present to the meeting the Annual 
Report and Accounts for the financial year ended 31 December 
2022. This includes: (i) the audited accounts; (ii) the Directors’ 
report; (iii) the Strategic report; and (iv) the report of the auditor 
of the Company on the audited accounts and the auditable part 
of the Directors’ Remuneration Report. A separate Resolution 
seeks approval by the shareholders of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report, which vote is advisory in nature.
Resolution 2
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Resolution 2 seeks shareholder approval for the annual 
statement to shareholders by the Chair of the Remuneration 
Committee and the Annual Report on Remuneration which 
can be found on pages 127 to 157 of the Annual Report and 
Accounts. The Annual Report on Remuneration gives details 
of the implementation of the Company’s existing Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy in terms of the payments and share awards 
made to the Directors in connection with their performance and 
that of the Company in respect of the year ended 31 December 
2022. This vote is advisory and will not affect the way in which 
the Directors’ Remuneration Policy has been implemented.
The Company’s auditor during the year, Deloitte LLP, has audited 
those parts of the Directors’ Remuneration Report that are 
required to be audited and their report can be found on pages 167 
to 175 of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Resolution 3
Directors’ Remuneration Policy
Resolution 3 seeks shareholder approval for the Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy. The Remuneration Committee believes that 
the proposed changes strengthen the alignment of executive 
remuneration with delivery of the business strategy and 
shareholder value.
A summary of the key changes to the Policy are highlighted 
below. For further information on the proposed Policy, please see 
pages 136 to 146 of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Element
Summary of changes
Rationale
Base salary
• Adopt consistent wording for the ability to move base 
salaries to the market rate where Executive Directors 
are either (i) an external appointment made on a 
below market base salary; or (ii) an internal promotion 
on a below market base salary.
• The change aligns Drax with standard FTSE 350 
market practice. The default base salary increase 
for Executive Directors remains an increase up 
to the rate typically applied to the workforce. 
Where the quantum increase exceeds the norm, 
an explanation will be provided by the 
Remuneration Committee.
Annual bonus
• Simplifying the wording on the choice of performance 
metrics. The majority of the annual bonus must still be 
earned based on performance against financial 
targets as opposed to the current approach that 
defined a set percentage of the bonus (60%) as being 
subject to financial targets.
• Simplification of current approach to that part of 
annual bonus which is deferred in shares. The change 
will specify that 40% of any annual bonus earned is 
deferred into the Company’s shares. This approach 
replaces the prevailing more complex approach 
whereby 100% of any bonus earned against strategic 
targets takes place subject to 40% of the total bonus 
outcome being deferred.
• Removal of the two-year holding period on deferred 
bonus shares so that any deferred shares that vest 
will be released at the end of the three-year vesting 
period. These shares will need to continue to be 
held (as a minimum on a net of tax basis) until the 
Company’s share ownership guidelines have 
been met.
• The changes to the operation of the annual 
bonus plan align Drax with standard FTSE 350 
market practice.
• Requiring at least half the bonus to be subject 
to financial targets provides greater flexibility 
for the Remuneration Committee in operating 
the annual bonus plan and mirrors standard 
market practice.
• The current approach to bonus deferral was 
overly complex with differing proportions of the 
parts of the bonus subject to financial and 
strategic targets taking place dependent upon 
the level of bonus earned against each measure. 
This was administratively complex with the 
change simplifying the deferral process.
• Deferring a proportion of any bonus into shares 
which vest at a future date is standard practice. 
Holding periods are not typically applied to  
deferred share bonus awards at the point of 
release. To note, the holding period will continue 
to apply to shares vesting under the Long-Term 
Incentive Plan (LTIP). The change brings the 
Company into line with standard FTSE 350 
market practice.
Pension
• The policy is being updated to reference that 
Executive Director pensions are now aligned with the 
rate typically provided to the UK wider workforce for 
new joiners at 10% of base salary.
• The change conforms the policy with institutional 
investors best practice expectations with 
Executive Director pensions being reduced to the 
rate typically provided to the UK wider workforce 
of 10% from their prior rates of 20% (CEO) and 
16% (CFO) of base salary.
Part C 
Explanatory notes to the Notice of the AGM
6 
Drax Group plc Notice of Annual General Meeting 2023
Element
Summary of changes
Rationale
LTIP
• The overall LTIP structure remains the same.
• N/a
Non-Executive 
Directors
• The changes to the current Policy provide flexibility 
for the Company to provide a limited range of benefits 
and travel allowances to Non-Executive Directors.
• The Policy will also specify that the default is to 
increase Non-Executive Directors’ base fees at a 
rate that is up to the rate typically applied to the 
UK wider workforce
• The changes to the Non-Executive Directors’ 
Policy mirror standard practice for FTSE 350 
companies with an international footprint.
• The ability to provide a limited range of benefits 
and allowances will ensure that Drax has the 
flexibility to appoint international Non-Executive 
Directors of an appropriate calibre to support 
Drax through the next phase of its development. 
The change will enable Drax to provide support to 
Non-Executive Directors (specifically from 
outside the UK) in relation to initial set up and 
ongoing support with filing tax returns such that 
this is cost neutral to the individual.
• Introducing the ability to increase Non-Executive 
Director fees up to the rate of increase awarded 
to the wider workforce brings the Company’s 
Policy into line with standard market practice.
If Resolution 3 is approved, the Directors’ Remuneration 
Policy will be effective immediately following the meeting. 
If shareholders do not approve the revised Remuneration Policy 
for any reason, the Company will continue to make payments 
to Directors and former Directors (in their capacity as Directors) 
under the existing Directors’ Remuneration Policy approved 
on the 22 April 2020 and will seek shareholder approval for 
a revised policy at the 2024 AGM.
Resolution 4
To approve the final dividend
Resolution 4 seeks shareholder approval to pay the final dividend 
of 12.6 pence per ordinary share, which is recommended by the 
Directors for payment to those shareholders who are on the 
Register of the Company at 6.30pm on 21 April 2023. If approved 
by shareholders at the AGM, the final dividend will be paid 
on 19 May 2023.
Resolutions 5 to 13
To re-elect the Directors
In accordance with the Company’s articles of association, and in 
line with the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code (the Code), each of the Directors will retire and offer 
themselves for re-election by shareholders.
The skills and experience for each of the Directors are set out in 
Part F of this Notice (and on pages 97 to 99 of the Annual Report 
and Accounts).
The Board has determined that all of the Non-Executive 
Directors being proposed for re-election are independent 
in character and judgement, and there are no relationships or 
circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, 
their independence.
During 2022, the Board completed an externally-led evaluation of 
the performance of both the Board as a whole and of individual 
Directors. Following that evaluation, the Chair is satisfied that the 
performance of each Director standing for re-election continues 
to be effective and that each Director continues to demonstrate 
commitment to the role. A separate assessment of the 
performance of the Chair was conducted, led by the Senior 
Independent Director, which concluded that the performance 
of the Chair continues to be effective, and the Chair continues 
to demonstrate commitment to the role and has the time required 
to devote to the performance of the function of Chair. More 
information about this can be found on pages 107 and 108 of the 
Annual Report and Accounts.
Resolutions 14 and 15
Re-appointment of auditor and determination of their 
remuneration
The Company must appoint or re-appoint an auditor at every 
general meeting at which accounts are presented and it is 
normal practice for the Company’s Directors, acting through 
the Audit Committee, to be authorised to determine the 
auditor’s remuneration.
The Board further recommend that Deloitte LLP be appointed as 
auditor of the Company for the year ending 31 December 2023. 
Deloitte LLP has advised its willingness to continue in office as 
auditor of the Company.
Resolution 16
Political donations and expenditure
Part 14 of the CA 2006 contains restrictions on companies 
making political donations or incurring political expenditure.
Drax is a politically neutral organisation and did not make any 
political donations or incur any political expenditure (within the 
ordinary meaning of those words) in 2022.
It is not the policy of the Company to make donations to political 
parties, and the Directors have no intention of changing that 
policy. However, the CA 2006 defines political donations and 
political expenditure terms very widely. This means that activities 
that form part of the normal relationship between the Company 
and bodies concerned with policy review, law reform and other 
business matters affecting the Company, which might not be 
thought to be political expenditure in the usual sense, could 
require shareholders’ consent under the CA 2006.
Explanatory notes to the Notice of the AGM continued
 
 
Drax Group plc Notice of Annual General Meeting 2023 
7
In view of the broad wording adopted in the CA 2006, and the 
Board’s wish to avoid any inadvertent infringement of it, it is 
seeking shareholders’ consent for the Company, and any wholly 
owned subsidiary company, to incur total annual expenditure for 
such purposes, provided that the aggregate amount of any such 
donations and expenditure shall not exceed £125,000, in order 
that the Company may continue to engage with regulators and 
policymakers without inadvertently breaching the applicable 
legislation. Further information on how the Company engaged 
with political parties in 2022 can be found on pages 29 and 160 of 
the Annual Report and Accounts, and the Political Engagement 
Policy is available on our website at www.drax.com/about-us/
corporate-governance/compliance-and-policies/drax-political-
engagement-policy/.
It is the intention that the Company will seek to renew this 
authority, if appropriate, at each subsequent AGM.
Resolution 17
Authority of Directors to allot shares
Resolution 17 seeks renewal of the Directors’ authority to allot 
shares, as required under Section 551 CA 2006. Upon the passing 
of Resolution 17, the Directors will have authority (pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of the Resolution) to allot shares up to an aggregate 
nominal value of £15,444,255, which is approximately one-third 
of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company (excluding 
treasury shares) as at 1 March 2023 (being the latest practicable 
date before the publication of this Notice). This authority will 
expire immediately following the AGM in 2024 or on 30 June 
2024, whichever is the earlier.
In addition, in accordance with the Investment Association Share 
Capital Management Guidelines (which set out the expectations 
of institutional investors in relation to, among other things, the 
authority of Directors to allot shares), upon the passing of 
Resolution 17, the Directors will have authority (pursuant to 
paragraph (b) of the Resolution) to allot ordinary shares in 
connection with a rights issue in favour of ordinary shareholders 
up to a maximum nominal value of £30,888,510, as reduced by 
the nominal amount of any shares issued under paragraph (a) of 
Resolution 17.
This amount (before any reduction in respect of issuances under 
paragraph (a)) represents approximately two-thirds of the 
Company’s issued ordinary share capital (excluding treasury 
shares) as at 1 March 2023 (being the latest practicable date 
before the publication of this Notice). This authority will also 
expire immediately following the AGM in 2024 or on 30 June 
2024, whichever is the earlier. In line with guidance issued by the 
Investment Association, Resolution 17 will give the Directors 
authority to allot ordinary shares representing up to 
approximately two-thirds of the Company’s current issued share 
capital pursuant to a rights issue.
The Directors will continue to seek to renew these authorities at 
each AGM, in accordance with current best practice from time to 
time. The Directors have no current plans to exercise this authority, 
except in connection with employee share plans, but consider 
it prudent to have the flexibility that this authority provides.
As at 1 March 2023, being the latest practicable date before 
publication of this Notice, the Company held 13,841,295 treasury 
shares, which represented 3.34% of the Company’s issued share 
capital at that date.
Resolution 18
General disapplication of pre-emption rights
If the Directors wish to exercise the authority granted under 
Resolution 17 and offer shares (or sell any shares which the 
Company may purchase and elect to hold as treasury shares) for 
cash, the CA 2006 requires that, unless shareholders have given 
specific authority for the waiver of their statutory pre-emption 
rights, the new shares must be offered first to existing 
shareholders in proportion to their existing shareholdings. In 
certain circumstances, it may be in the best interests of the 
Company to allot new shares (or to grant rights over shares) for 
cash without first offering them to existing shareholders in 
proportion to their holdings.
Resolution 18 will authorise the Directors to do this by allowing 
the Directors to allot shares for cash: (i) by way of a rights issue 
(subject to certain exclusions); (ii) by way of an open offer or other 
offer of securities (not being a rights issue) in favour of existing 
shareholders in proportion (as nearly as may be practicable) to 
their shareholdings (subject to certain exclusions) and (iii) 
otherwise than under (i) or (ii), up to an aggregate nominal value 
of £4,633,277 which is equivalent to approximately 10% of the 
issued ordinary share capital of the Company (excluding treasury 
shares) on 1 March 2023 (being the latest practicable date prior 
to the publication of this Notice). The Resolution also applies to 
the sale and re-issue of ordinary shares held as treasury shares by 
the Company. As at 1 March 2023, being the latest practicable 
date before the publication of this Notice, the Company held 
13,841,295 treasury shares.
The authority sought is in line with institutional shareholder 
guidance, including the Pre-Emption Group’s Statement of 
Principles as revised in November 2022 (the Statement of 
Principles). The Directors acknowledge the provisions of the 
Statement of Principles and confirm that the Board will follow the 
general principles set out therein.
If approved by the shareholders, the authority contained in 
Resolution 18 will expire on the earlier of the conclusion of the 
AGM in 2024 or on 30 June 2024. The Directors intend to renew 
such power at successive AGMs, in accordance with current 
best practice.
The Directors have no current plans to exercise this authority but 
consider it prudent to preserve maximum flexibility for the future 
whilst ensuring that existing shareholders’ interests are protected 
in line with institutional investor body guidance.
Resolution 19
Additional disapplication of pre-emption rights
Resolution 19 authorises the Directors to allot new shares (or sell 
treasury shares) for cash, without the shares first being offered 
to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings, 
in addition to the authority set out in Resolution 18, in connection 
with the financing (or refinancing, if the authority is to be used 
within 12 months of the original transaction) of an acquisition 
or specified capital investment which is announced 
contemporaneously with the allotment or which has taken place 
in the preceding 12-month period and is disclosed in the 
announcement of the allotment.
8 
Drax Group plc Notice of Annual General Meeting 2023
Explanatory notes to the Notice of the AGM continued
The authority under Resolution 19 is limited to an aggregate 
nominal value of £4,633,277 which is equivalent to approximately 
10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company 
(excluding treasury shares) on 1 March 2023 (being the latest 
practicable date prior to the publication of this Notice).
The Resolution also applies to the sale and re-issue of ordinary 
shares held as treasury shares by the Company. As at 1 March 
2023, being the latest practicable date before the publication 
of this Notice, the Company held 13,841,295 treasury shares. 
The authority sought is in line with institutional shareholder 
guidance, including the Statement of Principles. The Directors 
acknowledge the provisions of the Statement of Principles 
and confirm that the Board will follow the general principles 
set out therein.
If approved by the shareholders, the authority contained in 
Resolution 19 will expire on the earlier of the conclusion of the 
AGM in 2024 or on 30 June 2024. The Directors intend to renew 
such power at successive AGMs, in accordance with current 
best practice.
As with Resolution 18, the Directors have no current plans to 
exercise this authority, but consider it prudent to preserve 
maximum flexibility for the future whilst ensuring that existing 
shareholders’ interests are protected in line with institutional 
investor body guidance.
Resolutions 18 and 19 have been separated in accordance with 
the guidance issued by the Pre-Emption Group.
Resolution 20
To authorise the Company to purchase its own shares 
Resolution 20 is to authorise the Company to buy back up to 
40,108,970 ordinary shares. The authority will expire at the 
conclusion of the 2024 AGM or, if earlier, on 30 June 2024. 
The Directors intend to seek renewal of this power at subsequent 
AGMs in accordance with current best practice.
Resolution 20 specifies the maximum number of ordinary shares 
which may be purchased (representing 10% of the Company’s 
issued ordinary share capital as at 1 March 2023) and the 
maximum and minimum prices at which they may be bought, 
exclusive of expenses, reflecting the requirements of the 
CA 2006 and the Listing Rules.
The Directors have no present intention of exercising this 
authority, other than in relation to employee share plans or where 
it is considered appropriate in order to return value to 
shareholders. The granting of this authority should not be taken 
to imply that any ordinary shares will be purchased. Except in 
relation to the above, no purchase of ordinary shares will be made 
unless it is expected that the effect will be to increase earnings 
per share and the Directors consider it to be in the best interests 
of shareholders.
Under the CA 2006, the Company is allowed to hold its own 
shares in treasury following a buy back, instead of having to 
cancel them. This gives the Company the ability to re-issue 
treasury shares quickly and cost-effectively (including pursuant 
to the authority under Resolution 17 above) and provides the 
Company with additional flexibility in the management of its 
capital base. The Company currently holds 13,841,295 shares in 
treasury following a buy back programme between April 2018 
and January 2019.
Such shares may be re-sold for cash but all rights attaching to 
them, including voting rights and any right to receive dividends, 
are suspended whilst they are held in treasury. If the Directors 
exercise the authority conferred by Resolution 20, the Directors 
intend to hold such shares in treasury, but will assess which 
option to pursue at the relevant time and form a decision.
The total number of options to subscribe for, and awards over, 
shares, outstanding at 1 March 2023, being the last practicable 
date before the publication of this Notice was 16,761,392. This 
represents approximately 4.18% of the issued share capital 
(excluding treasury shares) at that date. If the Company was to 
buy back the maximum number of ordinary shares permitted 
pursuant to this Resolution then the total number of options to 
subscribe for ordinary shares, outstanding at 1 March 2023, 
would represent approximately 4.64% of the reduced share 
capital (excluding treasury shares) at that date.
Of the total share options outstanding as at 1 March 2023 
(16,761,392), an aggregate number of approximately 9.7m are 
expected to vest in 2023 under the Company’s various share 
plans. This includes approximately 6.8m under the all UK-
employee Sharesave Plan which matures in June 2023 when the 
three year savings contract period concludes for approximately 
900 participating employees. More information on outstanding 
awards and associated share-based payments can be found in 
note 6.2 to the Consolidated financial statements in the Annual 
Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2022.
Resolution 21
To allow general meetings to be held on 14 clear days’ notice in 
certain circumstances
Resolution 21 is a resolution to allow the Company to hold general 
meetings (other than AGMs) on 14 clear days’ notice.
The Shareholders’ Rights Regulations state that the notice period 
required for general meetings of the Company is 21 clear days, 
unless shareholders approve a shorter notice period, which 
cannot, however, be less than 14 clear days. AGMs will continue 
to be held on at least 21 clear days’ notice.
In order to preserve the Company’s ability to call general 
meetings (other than an AGM) on 14 clear days’ notice, Resolution 
21 seeks such approval. The shorter notice period would not be 
used as a matter of routine for such meetings, but only where the 
flexibility is merited by the business of the meeting and is thought 
to be to the advantage of shareholders as a whole.
The CA 2006 requires that, in order to be able to call a general 
meeting on less than 21 clear days’ notice, the Company must 
make a means of electronic voting available to all shareholders 
for that meeting. The Company provides this facility currently 
and would do so at any such meeting (see Part D of this document 
for the Company’s arrangements for electronic voting).
 
 
Drax Group plc Notice of Annual General Meeting 2023 
9
Part D 
Administrative notes relating to the AGM
Attendance
1. We have made arrangements for shareholders to attend the 
AGM either in person or online using the Lumi AGM platform. 
The doors of the AGM venue will open at 12.00pm and the 
AGM will start promptly at 12.30pm. Please bring the 
Attendance Card which is attached to the Form of Proxy with 
you if you attend the meeting in person. It will authenticate 
your right to attend, speak and vote and will speed up your 
admission to the meeting. You may also be asked to provide 
proof of identity. If you do not have your Attendance Card, 
you may be asked to provide two forms of identity (which 
may require photo identity and verification of your address). 
If you have been appointed as a proxy for a shareholder 
entitled to vote and you attend the AGM in person, please let 
the admission staff know. You should bring proof of identity 
with you and you will be asked to confirm the details of the 
shareholder you are representing. Further details on how you 
can join us online using the Lumi AGM platform are set out in 
Appendix 1 of this Notice.
2. Pursuant to regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities 
Regulations 2001 (as amended) and for the purposes of 
Section 360B CA 2006, the Company specifies that only 
those shareholders registered on the Register at 6.30pm on 
the day two business days before the date of the meeting (the 
Specified Time) (or if the meeting is adjourned to a time more 
than 48 hours after the Specified Time, by 6.30pm on the day 
which is two business days prior to the time of the adjourned 
meeting) shall be entitled to attend and vote thereat in 
respect of the number of shares registered in their name at 
the Specified Time. If the meeting is adjourned to a time not 
more than 48 hours after the Specified Time, that time will 
also apply for the purposes of determining the entitlement 
of members to attend and vote (and for the purposes of 
determining the number of votes they may cast) at the 
adjourned meeting. Changes to the Register after the relevant 
deadline shall be disregarded in determining rights to attend 
and vote.
3. If you have sold or transferred all your shares, this booklet and 
any accompanying documents (but not the personalised Form 
of Proxy or Form of Direction) should be passed to the person 
through whom the sale or transfer was made for transmission 
to the purchaser or transferee.
Voting
4. Voting on each of the Resolutions to be put to the AGM will be 
by poll, so that all shares voted are included, whether or not 
the member is able to attend the meeting. The results of the 
voting at the meeting and the number of proxy votes cast for 
and against and the number of votes abstained in respect of 
each of the Resolutions proposed at the meeting will be 
announced to the London Stock Exchange as soon as 
practicable following the meeting and also will be published 
on the Company’s website www.drax.com.
5. Members are reminded of their right under section 360BA 
CA 2006 to request, within 30 days of a general meeting, 
information which enables them to determine that their vote 
on a poll at the general meeting was validly recorded and 
counted by the Company.
Questions at the meeting
6. Questions for the Board can be submitted in advance or at the 
AGM through the Lumi platform. To enable the Board to 
address as many member questions as possible, we would 
request that where possible, questions are submitted in 
advance of the AGM.
7. If multiple questions on the same topic are received in 
advance of the AGM, the Chair may choose to provide a single 
answer to address member queries on the same topic.
8. Any member joining the meeting has the right to ask 
questions. The Company must cause to be answered any 
question relating to the business being dealt with at the 
meeting put by a member joining the meeting. However, 
members should note that no answer need be given in the 
following circumstances:
• if to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation of 
the meeting or would involve a disclosure of confidential 
information;
• if the answer has already been given on a website in the 
form of an answer to a question; or
• if it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the 
good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
Appointment of proxies
9. If you are a member of the Company at the time set out in 
note 2 above, you are entitled to appoint one or more proxies 
to exercise all or any of your rights to join and ask questions 
at the meeting. Your proxy does not need to be a member 
of the Company. If a member appoints more than one proxy 
to join the meeting, each proxy must be appointed to exercise 
the rights attached to a different share or shares held by 
that member.
10. If a member wishes to appoint more than one proxy and so 
requires additional proxy forms, the member should contact 
the Company’s Registrars, Equiniti Limited, at Aspect House, 
Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA or by using 
their telephone helpline service on 0371 384 2030 from 
within the UK or +44 121 415 7047 from outside the UK. 
Lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday – 
excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
11. You can only appoint a proxy using the procedures set out in 
these notes and the notes on the Form of Proxy. A Form of 
Proxy is enclosed. To be effective, the Form of Proxy must be 
completed and signed and, together with the power of 
attorney or authority, if any, under which it is signed (or a duly 
certified copy of any such power or authority) must be lodged 
with the Company’s Registrars not later than 48 hours, 
excluding non-business days, before the time of the meeting 
or must be lodged using the CREST proxy voting services 
(see note 13 below).
10 
Drax Group plc Notice of Annual General Meeting 2023
12. In the case of joint holders, where more than one of the joint 
holders purports to appoint a proxy, only the appointment 
submitted by the most senior holder will be accepted. 
Seniority is determined by the order in which the names of 
the joint holders appear in the Register in respect of the joint 
holding (the first-named being deemed the most senior).
13. CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by 
utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may 
do so for the meeting and any adjournment(s) thereof utilising 
the procedures described in the CREST Manual (available via 
www.euroclear.com). CREST personal members or other 
CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who 
have appointed (a) voting service provider(s) should refer 
to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider(s), who 
will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf. 
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using 
the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message 
(a CREST Proxy Instruction) must be properly authenticated 
in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited’s 
specifications and must contain the information required 
for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
14. The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the 
appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction 
given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be 
valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuer’s agent 
(Equiniti Limited CREST participant ID RA19) by the latest 
time(s) for receipt of proxy appointments specified in note 11 
above. For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be 
the time (as determined by the timestamp applied to the 
message by the CREST applications Host) from which the 
issuer’s agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to 
CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST. After this time 
any change of instructions to proxies appointed through 
CREST should be communicated to the appointee through 
other means. CREST members and, where applicable, their 
CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that 
Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available 
special procedures in CREST for any particular messages. 
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply 
in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions. It is the 
responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take 
(or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member 
or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service 
provider(s), to procure that his or her CREST sponsor or voting 
service provider(s) take(s)) such action as shall be necessary 
to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the 
CREST system by any particular time.
15. In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, 
their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, 
in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual 
concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and 
timings www.euroclear.com.
16. The Company may treat as invalid a CREST proxy instruction 
in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35(5)(a) of the 
Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 (as amended).
17. A vote withheld is not a vote in law, which means that the 
vote will not be counted in the calculation of votes for or 
against the Resolution. If you either select the “discretionary” 
option or if no voting indication is given, your proxy will vote 
or abstain from voting at his or her discretion. Your proxy will 
vote (or abstain from voting) as he or she thinks fit in relation 
to any other matter which is put before the meeting.
18. If you are not a member of the Company but you have been 
nominated by a member of the Company to enjoy information 
rights, you do not have a right to appoint any proxies under 
the procedures set out in this “Appointment of proxies” 
section. Please read the section “Nominated persons” below.
Appointment of proxy electronically
19. Alternatively, members may register the appointment of a 
proxy for the meeting electronically by accessing the website 
www.sharevote.co.uk. You will need your Voting ID, Task ID 
and Shareholder Reference Number (this is the series of 
numbers printed on your Form of Proxy). Alternatively, if you 
have already registered with Company’s Registrar’s online 
portfolio service, Shareview, you can submit your Form of 
Proxy at www.shareview.co.uk using your usual user ID and 
password. Full instructions are given on both websites, which 
are operated by the Company’s Registrars.
20. The proxy appointment and any power of attorney or other 
authority under which the proxy appointment is made must 
be received by the Company’s Registrars not less than 
48 hours, excluding non-business days, before the time 
for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting or (in the case 
of a poll taken otherwise than at or on the same day as the 
meeting or adjourned meeting) for the taking of the poll at 
which it is to be used. Please note that any electronic 
communication sent to the Company or to the Company’s 
Registrars that is found to contain a computer virus will not 
be accepted. The use of the internet service in connection 
with the AGM is governed by the Company’s Registrars’ 
conditions of use set out on the Sharevote website, 
www.sharevote.co.uk, and may be read by logging on to that 
site. If you want to appoint more than one proxy electronically, 
please contact the Company’s Registrars on 0371 384 2030 
from within the UK or +44 121 415 7047 from outside the UK. 
Lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday – 
excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
Website giving information regarding the meeting
21. A copy of this Notice and other information required by 
Section 311A CA 2006 can be found on the Company’s 
website www.drax.com/investors/announcements-events-
reports/agms-and-general-meetings/.
Administrative notes relating to the AGM continued
 
 
Drax Group plc Notice of Annual General Meeting 2023 
11
Changing proxy instructions
22. To change your proxy instructions simply submit a new proxy 
appointment. You will need to request a new Form of Proxy 
from the Company’s Registrars, Equiniti Limited, by 
contacting them at Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, 
West Sussex BN99 6DA or by using their telephone helpline 
service on 0371 384 2030 from within the UK or +44 121 415 
7047 from outside the UK. Lines are open from 8.30am to 
5.30pm, Monday to Friday – excluding public holidays in 
England and Wales. Note that the cut-off time for receipt of 
Forms of Proxy (see note 20 above) also applies in relation to 
amended instructions; any amended proxy appointment 
received after the relevant cut-off time will be disregarded.
23. If you submit more than one valid proxy appointment in 
respect of a single share, the appointment received last before 
the latest time for the receipt of proxies will take precedence.
Nominated persons
24. Any person receiving a copy of this Notice of Meeting as a 
person nominated by a member to enjoy information rights 
under Section 146 CA 2006 (a Nominated Person) should 
note that the provisions in this Notice concerning the 
appointment of a proxy or proxies to attend the meeting in 
place of a member, do not apply to a Nominated Person as 
only shareholders have the right to appoint a proxy. However, 
a Nominated Person may have a right under an agreement 
between the Nominated Person and the member by whom 
he or she was nominated to be appointed, or to have someone 
else appointed, as a proxy for the meeting. If a Nominated 
Person has no such proxy appointment right, or does not 
wish to exercise it, he or she may have a right under such 
an agreement to give instructions to the member as to the 
exercise of voting rights at the meeting. If you are a person 
who has been nominated under Section 146 CA 2006 to 
enjoy information rights:
• you may have a right under an agreement between you and 
the member of the Company who has nominated you to 
have information rights (Relevant Member) to be appointed 
or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the 
meeting; and
• if you either do not have such a right or if you have such 
a right but do not wish to exercise it, you may have a right 
under an agreement between you and the Relevant 
Member to give instructions to the Relevant Member as 
to the exercise of voting rights. Nominated Persons should 
also remember that their main point of contact in terms 
of their investment in the Company remains the member 
who nominated the Nominated Person to enjoy information 
rights (or, perhaps the custodian or broker who administers 
the investment on their behalf). Nominated Persons should 
continue to contact that member, custodian or broker (and 
not the Company) regarding any changes or queries relating 
to the Nominated Person’s personal details and interest 
in the Company (including any administrative matter). 
The only exception to this is where the Company expressly 
requests a response from a Nominated Person.
Issued shares and total voting rights
25. As at 1 March 2023, being the latest practicable date prior 
to the publication of this Notice, the Company’s issued share 
capital comprised 414,930,995 ordinary shares of 11 16/29 
pence each. Each ordinary share carries the right to one vote 
at a general meeting of the Company. The Company holds 
13,841,295 shares in treasury, therefore the total number 
of voting rights in the Company is 401,089,700.
26. This Notice, together with information about the total 
numbers of shares in the Company in respect of which 
members are entitled to exercise voting rights at the meeting 
as at 1 March 2023 (being the latest practicable date prior to 
the publication of this Notice) and, if applicable, any members’ 
statements, members’ Resolutions or members’ matters of 
business received by the Company after the date of this 
Notice, will be available on the Company’s website 
www.drax.com.
Website publication of audit concerns
27. Under Section 527 CA 2006, members meeting the threshold 
requirements set out in that Section have the right to require 
the Company to publish on a website a statement setting out 
any matter relating to the audit of the Company’s accounts 
(including the auditor’s report and the conduct of the audit) 
that are to be laid before the meeting; or any circumstance 
connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold 
office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts 
and reports were laid in accordance with Section 437 CA 2006.
28. The Company may not require the members requesting any 
such website publication to pay its expenses in complying 
with Sections 527 or 528 CA 2006. Where the Company is 
required to place a statement on a website under Section 527 
CA 2006, it must forward the statement to the Company’s 
auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement 
available on the website. The business which may be dealt 
with at the meeting includes any statement that the Company 
has been required under Section 527 CA 2006 to publish 
on a website.
Corporate representatives
29. Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more 
corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all 
of its powers as a member provided that it does not do so in 
relation to the same shares.
Electronic address
30. Any electronic address provided either in this Notice or in any 
related Documents (including the Form of Proxy) may not be 
used to communicate with the Company for any purposes 
other than those expressly stated.
12 
Drax Group plc Notice of Annual General Meeting 2023
Documents available for inspection
31. A copy of each of the Executive Directors’ service contracts 
and the Non-Executive Directors’ appointment letters and 
conditions of appointment will be available for inspection at 
the Company’s registered office during normal business hours 
from the date of this Notice until the close of the meeting. 
So that appropriate arrangements can be made for members 
wishing to inspect documents, we request that members 
contact the Company Secretary by email at 
companysecretary@drax.com in advance of any visit 
to ensure that access can be arranged.
Members’ right to have a matter of business dealt 
with at the meeting
32. Under Sections 338 and 338A CA 2006, members meeting 
the threshold requirements in those Sections have the right 
to require the Company to:
• give, to members of the Company entitled to receive notice 
of the meeting, notice of a Resolution which may properly 
be moved and is intended to be moved at the meeting; 
and/or
• include in the business to be dealt with at the meeting 
any matter (other than a proposed Resolution) which may 
be properly included in the business. A Resolution may 
properly be moved or a matter may properly be included 
in the business unless (a) (in the case of a Resolution only) 
it would, if passed, be ineffective (whether by reason 
of inconsistency with any enactment or the Company’s 
constitution or otherwise), (b) it is defamatory of any 
person, or (c) it is frivolous or vexatious.
33. Such a request may be in hard copy form or in electronic form, 
must identify the Resolution of which notice is to be given or 
the matter to be included in the business, must be authorised 
by the person or persons making it, must be received by the 
Company not later than the date which is six clear weeks 
before the meeting (or, if later, the time at which notice 
is given of the meeting), and (in the case of a matter to be 
included in the business only) must be accompanied by 
a statement setting out the grounds for the request.
Processing your personal data
34. Personal data provided by or on behalf of members in 
connection with the AGM may be processed by the Company 
and any third-party to whom it discloses such data in 
connection with the holding of the AGM (including the 
Company’s Registrars) for the purposes of compiling and 
updating the Company’s records in connection with the AGM, 
fulfilling its legal obligations and handling the rights exercised 
by members. The Company shall process such personal data 
in accordance with its privacy policy, a copy of which is 
available at www.drax.com/privacy-notices/ site-visitor-
privacy-notice/.
General enquiries
35. If you have any queries about voting or about your 
shareholding you can contact Equiniti Limited, who maintain 
the Register as follows:
• by using their telephone helpline service:
• from within the UK on 0371 384 2030; or
• from outside the UK on +44 121 415 7047; or
• by writing to them at Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, 
Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA.
The telephone helpline service will be available between 8.30am 
and 5.30pm Monday to Friday – excluding public holidays in 
England and Wales.
The telephone helpline service will not be able to provide legal, 
financial or personal taxation advice. Calls may be recorded and 
randomly monitored for security and training purposes.
Administrative notes relating to the AGM continued
 
 
Drax Group plc Notice of Annual General Meeting 2023 
13
The following definitions apply throughout this document and in the accompanying Form of Proxy, unless the context 
requires otherwise:
“Annual General Meeting” or “AGM” or “meeting”
the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held at 12.30pm on 
26 April 2023 (and any adjournment thereof)
“Board” or “Directors”
the Directors of Drax Group plc
“CA 2006”
the Companies Act 2006
“Code”
the UK Corporate Governance Code 2018
“Company” or “Drax Group” or “Drax”
Drax Group plc
“Company’s Registrars”
Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing,  
West Sussex BN99 6DA
“CREST”
the relevant systems (as defined in the CREST Regulations) in respect 
of which Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited is the Operator (as defined 
in such regulations)
“CREST Regulations”
the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 (SI 2001 No. 3755)
“Form of Proxy”
the proxy form enclosed with this document for use by shareholders to vote 
on the Resolutions
“London Stock Exchange”
London Stock Exchange plc
“Official List”
the official list of the UK Listing Authority
“ordinary shares”
ordinary shares with nominal value of 11 16⁄29 pence each in the capital 
of the Company
“Register”
the register of members of the Company
”Resolutions”
the Resolutions set out in the notice convening the AGM
“shareholders” or “members”
holders of ordinary shares
“UK Listing Authority”
the Financial Conduct Authority acting in its capacity as the competent 
authority for the purposes of Part VI of the Financial Services and Markets 
Act 2000
“UK”
the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland
 
Part E 
Definitions
14 
Drax Group plc Notice of Annual General Meeting 2023
Part F 
Skills and experience of the Board
Philip Cox CBE
Chair
Contribution and Experience
Philip’s responsibilities at Drax include Board composition and 
succession, Board governance and stakeholder engagement.
He was previously CEO of International Power plc, having 
formerly been CFO. Prior to this, he held a senior operational 
position at Invensys plc and was CFO at Siebe plc. As a 
Non-Executive Director, he was previously Chair of Kier Group plc, 
the Senior Independent Director at Wm Morrison Supermarkets 
plc, Chair of Global Power Generation and a member of the boards 
of Talen Energy Corporation, PPL, Meggitt plc and Wincanton plc.
Philip is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants and 
has an MA from Cambridge University.
Philip is an experienced leader of large businesses, particularly 
in the energy sector. As Chair, Philip cultivates a culture of 
openness, transparency and honesty on the Board in which 
constructive debate and challenge occurs and all Directors 
contribute fully. Philip has an in-depth knowledge of energy 
markets and the related regulation. He also has extensive 
experience in stakeholder engagement.
Appointment to the Board: January 2015
Appointment as Chair: April 2015
Will Gardiner
CEO
Contribution and Experience
Will has driven the vision and operations of the Company since 
becoming CEO in January 2018, inspiring Drax’s transformation 
from a leading UK renewable energy company to global 
leadership in sustainable biomass with the ambition to be a global 
leader in carbon dioxide removals.
Sustainability considerations are at the core of everything at 
Drax. Will is driving Drax’s sustainability agenda, taking a thought 
leadership role in defining sustainability criteria for woody 
biomass. Working with stakeholders across the spectrum, Will is 
creating a purpose led company at Drax to ensure outcomes that 
are positive for people, nature and the climate.
In addition to being CEO of Drax, Will is a Commissioner of the 
Energy Transitions Commission, is a member of the World 
Economic Forum’s (WEF) Alliance of CEO Climate Leaders, 
and is also a Non-Executive Director of the Sustainable 
Biomass Program.
Will joined Drax in 2015 as CFO and was appointed as CEO in 
January 2018. He has a wealth of experience in finance and 
technology, having held CFO and divisional Finance Director roles 
at a number of major companies, including CSR plc (acquired by 
Qualcomm, Inc in 2015) and Sky. He has dual US-UK citizenship 
and has lived and worked in the UK since 1998.
Appointment to the Board: November 2015
Andy Skelton
CFO
Contribution and Experience
Using his strong financial and commercial skills built over 25 years, 
Andy provides the financial oversight and controls that has 
supported the growth of Drax from a renewable energy company 
to an international company with a differentiated portfolio. 
Andy is highly values driven, with a personal commitment to Drax’s 
climate, nature and people positive ambitions. Andy represents 
Drax as a member of the Northern Powerhouse Partnership, 
helping create more opportunities and a better economy for the 
people of the North of England, where he also lives. 
Previously Andy was CFO at Fidessa Group plc and has held a 
number of senior finance positions at CSR plc, Ericsson and 
Marconi, including two years as CFO of Ericsson Nikola Tesla. 
Andy has a BA in accounting and finance and qualified as a 
chartered accountant in 1994.
Appointment to the Board: January 2019
David Nussbaum
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
Contribution and Experience
David holds a portfolio of other Board appointments, including 
Chair of International Alert and of the Joffe Trust. He also serves 
as a member of the Board (‘Council’) of Chatham House, and of 
the International Budget Partnership; is President of the Advisory 
Council of Transparency International UK; and is a member of the 
Ethical Investment Advisory Group of the Church of England. 
David’s executive career has included being the Chief Executive 
of The Elders, of WWF-UK, and of Transparency International. He 
was previously Finance Director and Deputy CEO of Oxfam, and 
CFO of Field Group plc. In a Non-Executive capacity, David has 
been Deputy Chair of the International Integrated Reporting 
Council, Deputy Chair of Shared Interest Society, a Non-Executive 
Director of Low Carbon Accelerator Limited, and Chair of 
Traidcraft plc.
David is a chartered accountant, and has a Masters in Theology 
from both Cambridge and Edinburgh universities, and a Masters 
in Finance from London Business School.
David’s extensive experience in international development and 
environmental matters, in addition to his prior experience as CFO 
of a UK listed industrial company, is of significant value to Drax 
and contributes to the Board’s discussions and understanding of 
the perspectives of and engagement undertaken with 
stakeholders.
David has a particular interest in sustainability and climate issues. 
His long career spent working with leading NGO’s has given him a 
passion for the importance of companies and governments 
delivering on their carbon reduction goals – crucial components 
of our response to climate change.
Appointment to the Board: August 2017
Erika Peterman
Independent Non-Executive Director
Contribution and Experience
Erika’s extensive experience, gained from over 25 years working 
in global organisations, enables the delivery of change and 
growth in complex, world-leading businesses. Her broad 
knowledge has been built serving various parts of the chemicals 
industry, across a range of sectors from plastics, petrochemicals, 
agriculture and pharma. 
Erika is currently Senior Vice President at BASF Corporation, 
where she leads the North American Chemical Intermediates 
business. Erika has held senior Executive roles with BASF, 
covering manufacturing and production, engineering, strategy, 
and commercial business management. Passionate about STEM 
 
 
Drax Group plc Notice of Annual General Meeting 2023 
15
and DEI, she actively supports BASF’s talent and workforce 
development programs, as well as a range of diversity and 
inclusion initiatives. 
Erika sits on a variety of College of Engineering Advisory Boards, 
including those for the University of Houston and the Georgia 
Institute of Technology. She serves as a Board Trustee at 
Chatfield College in Cincinnati, Ohio. She is also a member of the 
Executive Leadership Council, a non-profit organization whose 
mission is to globally accelerate the development of successful 
black executives across the lifecycle of their careers. Erika holds 
a BSc in chemical engineering from the Georgia Institute of 
Technology and an MBA from the University of Houston.
Appointment to the Board: October 2021
John Baxter CBE
Independent Non-Executive Director
Contribution and Experience
John has over 45 years working across the nuclear, electricity, 
oil and gas sectors. John was previously at BP plc, most recently 
as Group Head of Engineering & Process Safety, prior to which 
he worked at the UK utility Powergen plc as Group Engineering 
Director, as well as roles as a UKAEA Board member and also 
as a nuclear submarine engineer officer. He is a Non-Executive 
Director of Sellafield Ltd and chairs the Sellafield Board 
Committees on Environment, Health, Safety & Security and also 
People & Remuneration.
He is a Chartered Engineer, Fellow of both the Royal Academy 
of Engineering and the Royal Society of Edinburgh. John was 
President of both the Institution of Mechanical Engineers and 
The Welding Institute.
John has broad and expert level experience in engineering, 
health and safety, and energy generation experience. John is 
passionate about people development, particularly advancing 
the opportunities for young people in STEM careers, including 
via apprenticeships. His dedication to charity work and 
fundraising to support young people, provides a depth of 
understanding during Board discussions on stakeholder 
engagement and culture matters. Also, having been born and 
brought up in Scotland he brings important insights to Drax on 
the local environment and culture.
Appointment to the Board: April 2019
Kim Keating
Independent Non-Executive Director
Contribution and Experience
Kim is a Professional Engineer with 25 years of broad international 
experience in the oil and gas, nuclear, hydropower, and mining 
sectors. Most recently, Kim was the Chief Operating Officer 
of the Cahill Group, one of Canada’s largest multi-disciplinary 
construction companies. Prior to joining the Cahill Group in 2013, 
Kim held a variety of progressive leadership roles from 
engineering design through to construction, commissioning, 
production operations and offshore field development with 
Petro-Canada (now Suncor Energy Inc.). She is currently a 
Non-Executive Director of Yamana Gold Inc. and Board chair of 
Major Drilling International Inc. Kim is also a founding member of 
Makwa-Cahill Limited Partnership, a nuclear qualified indigenous 
fabrication company. Kim is a Fellow of the Canadian Academy of 
Engineering, holds a Bachelor of Civil Engineering degree and an 
MBA. She also holds the Canadian Registered Safety Professional 
(CRSP) designation and Diligent Climate Leadership certification. 
She is a graduate of the Rotman-Institute of Corporate Directors 
Education Program and was awarded her ICD.D designation.
Throughout her career, Kim has made significant engineering and 
project management contributions to complex major projects in 
the Canadian, Norwegian and UK energy sectors, bringing a 
wealth of strategy, operational leadership, and technical expertise 
to her roles. She has a deep appreciation and insight into the value 
of community partnerships particularly with indigenous groups. 
Appointment to the Board: October 2021
Nicola Hodson
Independent Non-Executive Director
Contribution and Experience
As Chair of the Remuneration Committee Nicola brings to the role 
a wide range of experience of international business, government 
organisations, and dealing with a variety of stakeholders.
Nicola is currently Chief Executive of IBM UK and Ireland and 
Deputy President of TechUK. Previously she was Vice-President, 
Global Sales and Marketing, Field Transformation at Microsoft, 
Chief Operating Officer of Microsoft UK and previously held P&L 
and sales roles at Siemens, CSC (now DXC) and EY. Nicola is a 
Non-Executive Director of Beazley plc.
Nicola brings expert level technology knowledge, with her current 
working experience at the forefront of global organisations. She is 
also skilled in business and digital transformation, and sales. 
Nicola is committed to inclusivity and enabling people to realise 
their full potential, irrespective of their background.
Appointment to the Board: January 2018
Vanessa Simms
Independent Non-Executive Director
Contribution and Experience
Vanessa has extensive experience in senior finance roles across 
several different, and capital intensive, industries, including real 
estate, medical devices and telecommunications. 
Vanessa is CFO of Land Securities Group plc and has worked in 
finance for over 20 years. Prior to her role at Land Securities 
Group plc, Vanessa was CFO of Grainger plc, held a number of 
senior positions within Unite Group plc, including Deputy Chief 
Financial Officer, and was UK Finance Director at SEGRO plc. 
Vanessa is a Fellow of the Association of Chartered Certified 
Accountants and has an Executive MBA from Ashridge.
Vanessa has broad and expert level experience in strategic capital 
allocation, finance, risk and internal controls at highly successful 
companies in the UK which is invaluable in her role as Chair of the 
Audit Committee. She has a comprehensive understanding of 
large, listed companies’ requirements and brings a rich insight into 
a broad range of stakeholder perspectives.
Appointment to the Board: June 2018
16 
Drax Group plc Notice of Annual General Meeting 2023
Electronic meeting
For the Annual General Meeting, Drax Group plc will be enabling 
members to join the meeting electronically, should they wish to 
do so. This can be done by accessing the AGM website, 
https:// web.lumiagm.com.
Accessing the AGM Website
Lumi AGM can be accessed online using most well-known 
internet browsers such as Edge, Chrome, Firefox and Safari on a 
PC, laptop or internet-enabled device such as a tablet or 
smartphone. If you wish to join the AGM using this method, please 
go to https://web.lumiagm.com on the day.
Logging in
On accessing the AGM website, you will be asked to enter a 
Meeting ID which is 110-637-161.
You will then be prompted to enter your unique Shareholder 
Reference Number (SRN) and PIN which is the first two and last 
two digits of your SRN. These can be found printed on your Form 
of Proxy. Access to the meeting via the website will be available 
from 11.30am on 26 April 2023.
Broadcast
The meeting will be broadcast with presentation slides. Once 
logged in, and at the commencement of the meeting, you will be 
able to listen to the proceedings of the meeting on your device, 
as well as being able to see the slides of the meeting which will 
include the Resolutions to be put forward to the meeting, these 
slides will progress automatically as the meeting progresses.
Questions
Members joining electronically may ask questions via the website 
by typing and submitting their question in writing. Select the 
messaging icon from within the navigation bar and type your 
question at the top of the screen, once finished, press the ‘send’ 
icon to the right of the message box to submit your question.
Voting
Once the Chair has formally opened voting, the list of Resolutions 
will automatically appear on your screen. Select the option that 
corresponds with how you wish to vote.
Once you have selected your vote, the option will change colour 
and a confirmation message will appear to indicate your vote has 
been cast and received, there is no submit button.
To vote on all Resolutions displayed select the “vote all” option at 
the top of the screen. To change your vote, re-select your choice. 
To cancel your vote, select the “cancel” button. You will be able to 
do this at any time whilst the poll remains open and before the 
Chair announces its closure.
Requirements
An active internet connection is required in order to allow you 
to submit questions and listen to the audiocast. It is the user’s 
responsibility to ensure you remain connected for the duration 
of the meeting.
Duly appointed proxies and corporate 
representatives
Please contact the Company’s Registrar before 12:30pm on 
24 April 2023 on 0371 384 2030 or +44 121 415 7047 if you are 
calling from outside the UK for your SRN and PIN.
Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday 
(excluding public holidays in England and Wales).
Appendix 1 – Information for the day 
User guide to joining the AGM online
 
 
Drax Group plc Notice of Annual General Meeting 2023 
17
Meeting ID: 110-637-161 
To login you must have your SRN and PIN
1
2
3
Open the Lumi AGM website and you 
will be prompted to enter the Meeting ID. 
If a shareholder attempts to login to the 
website before the meeting is live*, 
a pop‑up dialogue box will appear.
* 12:30pm on 26 April 2023
After entering the Meeting ID, you will 
be prompted to enter your unique SRN 
and PIN (see “Logging In” on page 16).
When successfully authenticated, you 
will be taken to the Home Screen.
4
5
6
To view the meeting presentation, expand 
the “Broadcast Panel”, located at the 
bottom of your device. If viewing through 
a browser, it will appear automatically.
This can be minimised by pressing the 
same button.
If you would like to ask a question, select the 
messaging icon.
Type your message within the chat box and 
click the send button to submit.
To vote, select the voting icon. Once you 
have selected your vote, the option will 
change colour and a confirmation message 
will appear to indicate your vote has been 
cast and received. To cancel your vote, select 
the “cancel” button.
Notes
