38
10.2.0  Design & Access Statement
Design  
Principles
04.  Design Response
4.1. This Chapter sets out the Design Principles 
developed in response to the emerging principles 
identified in Chapter 3. The Design Principles have 
been developed under the following headings:
• 
Built Form and Visual Structure;
• 
Movement and Connections;
• 
Landscape 
4.2. These principles set the brief for the Design Proposals 
which are described in Chapter 5 of this statement.
4.3. The Table opposite demonstrates how the design 
principles form the framework for the site in terms of 
the three headings.
39
10.2.0  Design & Access Statement
Analysis Component
Design Principle
Hirwaun Principle
Built Form, Uses and Activities
Specify or design items of larger plant with 
consideration to their visual appearance in 
the local and wider landscape.
The proposed buildings, structures and perimeter security fencing shall be 
of high quality design.  
Materials used for cladding shall above all need to be durable and function-
al for operation for 25yrs in a power station environment.
Consideration should be given to cladding in grades of greyscale or colour 
appropriate to the local surroundings, for the largest buildings, to minimise 
visibility in long distance views whilst adding visual interest at street level.
Built Form, Uses and Activities
Reinstate the routes of the gas and electrical 
connections with appropriate planting for 
their wider and local landscape and habitat 
setting, taking into account the need to avoid 
damage from roots.
Soft planting along connection routes should be reinstated in accordance 
with soil handling and reinstatement strategy to be developed as part of 
project CEMP and restored to an appropriate grassland mix or grazing 
pasture or to Marshy Grassland as appropriate.
Where existing woodland / trees are lost and cannot be replaced through 
tree planting due to restrictions above and adjacent to the pipeline to retain 
the linear feature and provide connectivity for wildlife.
Where inside the permanent easement of the Gas Connection, only shal-
low-rooting tree/shrub species should be used in order to avoid interfering 
with the installed Gas Connection.
Built Form, Uses and Activities
The use of soft landscaping should be maxi-
mised within the Power Generation Plant site 
where safety and operational considerations 
allow.
Amenity planting should be used to enhance the character of the industrial 
estate. The design of perimeter security fencing and its alignment inside 
boundary structure planting should provide a ‘soft’ edge to the industrial 
development, and connect with adjacent trees and vegetation. Where safe 
and operationally feasible to do so, further planting within the interior of the 
site should be considered where it provides amenity to both passers by 
and users of the site itself.
Built Form, Uses and Activities
Seek to re-use existing materials and 
hardstanding to minimise embodied energy 
losses and reinforce local character, where 
safe to do so and the materials are durable.
Seek to retain most or all of the existing foundation slabs and locate the 
majority of development thereon. 
Site-won materials should be stored and re-used on site in line with the 
CEMP / Demolition Method Statement.
40
10.2.0  Design & Access Statement
Design  
Principles
Analysis Component
Design Principle
Hirwaun Principle
Built Form, Uses and Activities
A landscaping scheme should be developed 
that ensures the site is designed and land-
scaped to complement the local and wider 
setting, and screen in identified views. 
Good quality trees shall be retained so far as 
possible.
The approach to screen planting should seek to improve the amenity of the 
area and enhance biodiversity, and be carried out in accordance with the 
Landscape Strategy. Existing woodland should be retained where possible.  
Belts of trees along both eastern and western edges of the site should be 
planted. An avenue of trees should be planted along Main Avenue to the 
south of the site and the line of trees on the south side of Main Avenue 
should be extended.  To the north of the site, intermittent tree planting 
should reflect the character of scrub. An area of semi-improved grassland 
is to be retained/ reinstated where lost on the northern boundary.
All re-instatement planting should be native species.
Built Form, Uses and Activities
Lighting shall be appropriate to the local 
context, to create visual interest at the street 
level if appropriate but avoid 
lighting impacts upon identified habitats, 
neighbouring occupiers, and the wider 
landscape.
The lighting shall maintain the ‘Ambient night time’ Environmental Zone 
that the site is identified as falling within at present and is appropriate in its 
local context, in accordance with the Outline Lighting Strategy. This would 
be achieved through appropriate placing, directionality, and technology 
of lighting and a preference for a greater number of, lower level, building 
mounted lamps. Design choices for lighting should be made with a view 
to minimising the impact on sensitive receptors identified in the Lighting 
Strategy, such as the SINC.
Built Form, Uses and Activities
Stacks should be designed at a height which 
causes minimum visual impact whilst also 
allowing for adequate dispersion of stack 
emissions
The design of the project utilises technology (SGCT) that allows a signifi-
cant reduction in stack height compared to other technology types. Stack 
shall be between 30m – 35m height and shall not be illuminated or contain 
signage or branding unless necessary for a recognised safety / operational 
requirement.
Built Form, Uses and Activities
The Power Generation Plant site shall be laid 
out and maintained in a safe and attractive 
manner and which supports a positive public 
perception of the operation.
The main entrance and other permanent accesses shall have high quality 
branded signage so that visitors and passers-by can understand the use of 
the site.
Vehicle parking, storage areas and smaller structures shall be laid out and 
screened so as to minimise visual clutter and improve the safety and per-
ception of safety of the site operation.
The CEMP shall include measures for the maintenance of a tidy and con-
tained site compound during construction
Built Form, Uses and Activities
The site layout shall consider the need to 
minimise noise and vibration impacts on the 
wider area.
Detailed design shall ensure that noise is mitigated as far as possible, 
through the Project Site layout and consideration of the orientation of plant 
items associated with higher sound power levels. Inherently quiet plant 
items shall be selected wherever practicable. Consideration shall be given 
to the use of silencers and housing plant items in acoustic enclosures 
where practicable.
41
10.2.0  Design & Access Statement
Built Form, Uses and Activities
Consideration shall be given to the most 
appropriate choice of materials. Materials 
should be agreed with the local planning 
authority.
Materials chosen shall be robust, high quality and cost-effective. The 
architectural design, use of raw materials and colours of the buildings 
and structures on the Hirwaun Site shall be designed to reduce glare and 
assimilate the Project into the surrounding landscape.
Movement and Connections Move-
ment
Ensure that access routes are appropriate for 
the vehicles that shall use them during site 
construction and operation
Re-use existing entrances to provide adequate operational and safety 
access.
Design of new access track for the AGI shall minimise hard standing area 
and grassland loss whilst remaining clear for the necessary vehicles to 
access. 
Where removed for construction works, roadway and footpath shall be 
reinstated with a durable and well-finished surface
Movement and Connections 
Access
Provide suitable access for emergency vehi-
cles to and around the site.
Access to fire vehicles shall be provided consummate with the Building 
Regulations 2012; ‘Approved Document B 2010’ Section 16 - Vehicle 
Access.
Movement and Connections 
Access
The design should be accessible to existing 
public transport routes and mitigate any 
significant transport impacts
Opportunities to improve the quality of the pedestrian cut through to the 
bus stop on Rhigos Road shall be considered
2 sheltered cycle spaces and a shower room shall be provided to the 
workshop/store building.
Vehicle parking shall be adequate for workers and visitors to the site and 
shall include a fully accessible space for a disabled worker or visitor, and 
be proximate to buildings they serve.
Analysis Component
Design Principle
Hirwaun Principle
42
10.2.0  Design & Access Statement
Design  
Principles
Analysis Component
Design Principle
Hirwaun Principle
Landscape/
Environmental suitability
Public spaces adjacent to the development 
shall not experience a reduction in lighting 
unless necessary to protect identified habi-
tats or other sensitive receptors.
Consideration should be given to improving lighting along the perimeter 
of the Power Generation Plant site to Main Avenue and the pedestrian cut 
through to the bus stops at Rhigos Road. External lighting should be of a 
specification and angle that reduces trespass.
Landscape/
Environmental suitability
Retain and reinforce boundary tree planting 
where trees are found to be of good/retain-
able quality.
The design shall take into account the 
provision of robust fencing around the site to 
ensure safety of the site
The design of perimeter security fencing and its alignment inside boundary 
structure planting shall provide a ‘soft’ edge to the industrial development, 
and connect with adjacent trees and vegetation. 
Amenity planting shall be used to enhance the character of the industrial 
estate.
Natural surveillance shall be facilitated through the location of the gate-
house and the use of chain link or weld mesh fence where safe to do so, in 
preference to solid hedge or wall.
Trees should be maintained/selected  to have a canopy no lower than 
around 1.8m to allow some short / angled views in and out of the site 
whilst acting as screening to taller and more distant structures within the 
site.
Landscape/
Environmental suitability
Minimise impacts on existing habitats and 
species within the site
The design of landscape planting should enhance the area’s biodiversity 
through: the retention of existing woodland; the planting of belts of trees to 
increase the amount of woodland in the area; the reinstatement of planting 
where possible and appropriate; and careful management of soils.
A dedicated structure shall be created for bats to roost in, in the west part 
of the site, with trees planted nearby and lighting avoided.
35 bat boxes and 30 bird boxes shall also be installed on retained vegeta-
tion around the PGP compound and in woodland to the north within Watt 
Power’s ownership.
43
10.2.0  Design & Access Statement
Landscape/
Environmental suitability
The layout and landscaping shall be 
designed to minimise all aspects of water 
usage where operationally appropriate, 
thus process, sanitation and irrigation water 
usage.
There shall be no increase in impermeable built area of the site.
Existing drainage provision shall be reused or repaired as necessary.
Water tanks shall be designed to minimise visual clutter in views. 
The design of the site shall include the strategic placement of soil bunds 
and design considerations for access roads in order to avoid funnelling 
surface water or affecting surface water quality off site.
Analysis Component
Design Principle
Hirwaun Principle
