 
 
 
The Abergelli Power Gas Fired Generating Station 
Order 
 
9.2 Gas Connection Statement 
 
Planning Act 2008 
The Infrastructure Planning  
(Applications: Prescribed Forms and Procedure) Regulations 2009 
 
PINS Reference Number:  
 
EN010069 
Document Reference: 
 
 
9.2 
Regulation Number: 
 
 
5(2)(p) & 6(1)(a)(ii) 
Author: 
 
 
 
 
Abergelli Power Limited 
 
Revision 
 
Date  
 
Description  
 
0 
 
 
May 2018  
 
Submission Version  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Contents 
1. 
INTRODUCTION 
1 
2. 
PROJECT SUMMARY 
4 
3. 
CONTRACTUAL AGREEMENTS 
5 
4. 
PIPELINE CROSSING AGREEMENTS 
6 
5. 
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR DESIGNING AND BUILDING THE GAS                                                    
CONNECTION (REGULATION 6(1)(A)(II)) 
7 
6. 
ACQUISITION OF LAND AND RIGHTS 
11 
7. 
CONSENTS FOR THE CONNECTION WORKS 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
 
1. 
INTRODUCTION 
1.1 
APL is promoting a new thermal generating station on land at Abergelli Farm, 
Felindre, near Swansea, Wales (the Project).   
1.2 
The Power Generation Plant constitutes a Nationally Significant Infrastructure Project 
(NSIP) by virtue of section 14 (1)(a) and section 15 of the Planning Act 2008 (PA 
2008) which includes within the definition of an NSIP any onshore generating station 
in England or Wales of 50 MWe capacity or more. Under section 31 of the PA 2008 
a Development Consent Order (DCO) is required to develop a NSIP. Under section 
37 of the PA 2008 this can only be granted if an application is made for it to the 
Secretary of State (SoS) (the DCO Application). 
1.3 
The three main elements of the Project comprise:  
• 
An Open Cycle Gas Turbine (OCGT) peaking power generating station, 
fuelled by natural gas and capable of providing a rated electrical output of up 
to 299 Megawatts (MW). The Power Generation Plant comprises: 
o 
Generating Equipment including one Gas Turbine Generator with 
one exhaust gas flue stack and Balance of Plant (BOP) (together 
referred to as the ‘Generating Equipment’) which are located within 
the ‘Generating Equipment Site’; 
o 
An Access Road to the Project Site from the B4489 which lies to the 
west, formed by upgrading an existing access road between the 
B4489 junction and the Swansea North Substation (the Substation) 
and constructing a new section of access road from the Substation 
to the Generating Equipment Site; and 
o 
A temporary construction compound for the storage of materials, 
plant and equipment as well as containing site accommodation and 
welfare facilities, temporary car parking and temporary fencing (the 
Laydown Area). A small area within the Laydown Area will be 
retained permanently (the Maintenance Compound). 
o 
Ecological Mitigation Area – area for ecological enhancement within 
the Project Boundary    
o 
Permanent parking and drainage to include: a site foul, oily water 
and surface water drainage system.  
• 
A Gas Connection in the form of a new Above Ground Installation (AGI) and 
underground Gas Pipeline to bring natural gas to the Generating Equipment 
from the National Gas Transmission System; and 
• 
An Electrical Connection in the form of a new underground electrical cable to 
export power from the Generating Equipment to the National Grid Electricity 
Transmission System (NETS). 
 
 
2 
 
Development Consent under the Planning Act 2008 
Power Generation Plant 
1.4 
The Power Generation Plant would have a rated electrical output of up to 299 MW of 
electricity and is therefore classified as a Nationally Significant Infrastructure Project 
(“NSIP”) under section 15 of the Planning Act 2008 (as amended) (“PA 2008”).   
1.5 
As such, APL is applying to the Secretary of State (“SoS”) for Business, Energy and 
Industrial Strategy under section 31 of the PA 2008 for a Development Consent Order 
(“DCO”) for powers to construct, operate and maintain the Power Generation Plant. 
Associated Development 
1.6 
The Gas Connection and Electrical Connection comprise development associated 
with the NSIP (“associated development”).   
1.7 
The PA 2008 restricts associated development for which consent can be sought 
under a DCO in Wales to development that is associated with a generating station 
with a capacity in excess of 350MW.  As the Power Generation Plant would have 
rated electrical output of up to 299 MW, associated development to the Power 
Generation Plant cannot be included in any application for DCO under the PA 2008.  
The application for a DCO therefore only includes the Power Generation Plant and 
related mitigation as "authorised development" and does not seek development 
consent for the Gas Connection or the Electrical Connection. 
Town and Country Planning Act 1990 and Town and Country Planning (General 
Permitted Development) Order 1995 
1.8 
APL will seek planning permission for the Gas Connection under the Town and 
Country Planning Act 1990 ("TCPA 1990").  The Electrical Connection could either 
be consented through the TCPA 1990 or as permitted development under the Town 
and Country Planning (General Permitted Development) Order 1995 ("GPDO"). As 
stated in the document Details of Other Consents and Licences (Document 
Reference 5.4), the planning application for the Gas Connection is expected to be 
submitted in summer 2018 following EIA screening and is anticipated to be 
determined in advance of the determination of the DCO Application. 
1.9 
The AGI which forms part of the Gas Connection consists of two parts, a pipeline 
inspection gauge (pig) trap facility (PTF) and a minimum offtake connection (MOC). 
The remaining part to the Gas Connection is the underground Gas Pipeline which 
connects into the AGI to bring natural gas to the Generating Equipment from the 
National Gas Transmission System. 
1.10 
Section 37 of the PA 2008 governs the content of an application for a DCO, including 
the requirements for the necessary accompanying documents specified in the 
Infrastructure Planning (Applications: Prescribed Forms and Procedure) Regulations 
2009 (APFP Regulations). 
1.11 
This Gas Connection Statement accompanies the DCO Application and has been 
prepared to comply with Regulation 6(1)(a)(ii) of the APFP Regulations, which, where 
 
3 
 
a DCO Application is for a gas fuelled generating station, requires the Applicant to 
provide "a statement of who will be responsible for designing and building the gas 
pipeline connection to the generating station".  
1.12 
A full glossary of defined terms is presented in Document Reference 1.4. 
 
4 
 
2. 
PROJECT SUMMARY 
2.1 
The Generating Equipment would operate as a OCGT peaking plant and would be 
designed to provide an electrical output of up to 299 Megawatts electrical (MWe). 
The plant would be fuelled by natural gas, supplied to the Generating Equipment Site 
by a new Gas Pipeline connecting the Generating Equipment to the existing National 
Gas Transmission System.   
2.2 
Peaking plants are required to operate when there is a surge in demand for electricity 
associated with a particular event (e.g. where many people across the country boil 
kettles following the end of a popular television programme) or where there is a 
sudden drop in power being generated from plant which are constantly operational 
(e.g. a sudden outage). 
2.3 
Operating as a Peaking Plant, the Generating Equipment would also help to ‘balance 
out’ the grid at times of peak electricity demand and will help to support the grid at 
times when other technologies (e.g. wind and solar farms) cannot generate electricity 
due to their intermittent operation and reliance on weather conditions.  Peaking 
Plants are therefore vital in ‘evening out’ the power in the grid. The Generating 
Equipment would operate intermittently for up to 2,250 hours per year. This could be 
at any time during the year and for any length of time up to but not exceeding 2,250 
hours and not exceeding 1,500 hours on a 5 year rolling average.  
2.4 
The Generating Equipment will supply electricity to the NETS operated by National 
Grid Electricity Transmission PLC (NGET). NGET holds a transmission licence 
issued pursuant to the Electricity Act 1989. 
2.5 
The Project is more fully described in Chapter 3 of the Environmental Statement 
(Document Reference 6.1).                                                                                                           
 
5 
 
3. 
CONTRACTUAL AGREEMENTS 
3.1 
APL will submit a connection application to National Grid Gas in 2019 for the MOC 
(which facilitates the APL Gas Pipeline connection to the National Gas Transmission 
System) to connect the Generating Equipment to the National Gas Transmission 
System.  
3.2 
Upon submission of the application, NGG will have 6 months to provide APL with a 
connection offer at which point APL will have a further 3 months to decide whether 
to accept the terms of the offer. 
3.3 
Upon acceptance, APL will enter into a Design and Build Agreement (DBA) with NGG 
for the construction of the new MOC. The DBA will set out the cost and timescales 
for delivery of the MOC. These timescales will be designed to meet the target first 
operations date of 2022 as stated in the Environmental Statement (Document 
Reference: 6.1). 
 
 
 
6 
 
4. 
PIPELINE CROSSING AGREEMENTS 
National Grid Gas (NGG) 
4.1 
The APL Gas Pipeline will need to cross three legs of gas pipeline Feeder 28 at two 
locations. Feeder 28 is owned by NGG. The crossing works would take place in plot 
6 within the Book of Reference (Document Reference 4.3). Figure 3.4 Existing 
Utilities Plan at Document Reference 6.3 shows the location of Feeder 28 in relation 
to the Gas Connection.    
4.2 
Although not an exhaustive list, the works broadly include horizontal directional 
drilling / auger boring under pipes and the crossing of ground above pipes with 
vehicles during construction and use of land for stockpiling. 
4.3 
APL is in active discussions with NGG over the crossing of these assets. Protective 
provisions have been sent to NGG for agreement and APL's proposed draft 
protective provisions have been included in the draft DCO.  
Abergelli Solar Ltd 
4.4 
The APL Gas Pipeline will need to cross an underground electrical cable, which is 
owned by Abergelli Solar Ltd. The crossing works would take place in plots 3 and 4 
within the Book of Reference (Document Reference 4.3).    
4.5 
Although not an exhaustive list, the works broadly include horizontal directional 
drilling / auger boring under pipes and the crossing of ground above pipes with 
vehicles during construction and use of land for stockpiling. 
4.6 
APL is in active discussions with Abergelli Solar Ltd over the crossing of this asset. 
Protective provisions have been sent to Abergelli Solar Ltd for agreement and APL's 
proposed draft protective provisions have been included in the draft DCO. 
 
 
7 
 
5. 
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR DESIGNING AND BUILDING THE GAS CONNECTION 
(Regulation 6(1)(a)(ii)) 
Background 
5.1 
The UK National Grid Gas system is split into two parts, the National Gas 
Transmission System and the LTS (Local Transmission System). 
5.2 
The National Gas Transmission System represents the infrastructure designed to 
transmit gas over large distances around the country, this infrastructure principally 
consists of large diameter pipelines (> 24”/600mm) operating at high pressure 
(~70barg). The National Gas Transmission System is the backbone of the UK gas 
infrastructure and as such does not reach all points of mainland Britain; the 
extremities are covered by the LTS. 
5.3 
A feasibility study identified Feeder 28 on the National Gas Transmission System as 
the most appropriate connection option for the Project. Feeder 28 is designed to bring 
gas into the National Gas Transmission System from the Milford Haven liquefied 
natural gas terminals. Several possible locations for connecting to Feeder 28 were 
reviewed and assessed based on industry best practice considerations. This work 
also entailed looking at several possible routes from the Generating Equipment Site 
to the three 1200 mm high pressure steel pipelines that comprise Feeder 28 and 
culminated with a preferred MOC location and pipeline route. An LTS connection 
option in the vicinity of the Project Site was also considered in the feasibility study; 
this was not considered to be the most appropriate connection option due to the lack 
of pressure and availability of gas through the LTS option. 
5.4 
Preliminary discussions with NGG have indicated the likelihood of available gas 
capacity in Feeder 28 for the APL requirements. 
5.5 
Further information on the Gas Connection, including the alternative route options 
considered between the Generating Equipment and Feeder 28, is contained in 
Chapter 5 of the Environmental Statement (Document number 6.1). An explanation 
of consultation feedback received on the Gas Connection and how it has been taken 
into account is contained in the Consultation Report (Document number 5.1.0).  
The Gas Connection 
5.6 
The Gas Connection will be in the form of a new AGI and underground Gas Pipeline, 
which is required in order to connect the Generating Equipment to the existing 
National Gas Transmission System so as to provide a reliable supply of fuel. 
5.7 
Connection of the Gas Pipeline to the National Gas Transmission System will require 
an AGI to be installed which will comprise: a MOC facility, which will be owned by 
National Grid; and a Pipeline Inspection Gauge (PIG) Trap Facility (PTF) which will 
be owned by APL. 
5.8 
Termination of the Gas Connection will be at a second PTF located on the Generating 
Equipment Site. A further facility known as the Gas Receiving Station (GRS) will be 
situated downstream of the PTF within the Generating Equipment Site.  
 
8 
 
5.9 
The AGI (both the MOC and PTF) will be located at the northern end of the Project 
Site, on the southern side of the Rhyd-y-pandy Road leading to Felindre. Once 
complete, maintenance access for the AGI will be from the Rhyd-y-pandy Road via 
a short, purpose built tarmacadam access track. The Gas Connection will then follow 
a route corridor shown on Figure 3.2 running in southerly direction to the Generating 
Equipment Site. It will be approximately 1.4 km in length. It will cross the National 
Gas Transmission System in two locations, a Public Right of Way (LC35B) in one 
location, two private farm tracks (see Figure 3.3) and one ditch (field drain). 
5.10 
Full details of the permanent and temporary rights required are contained in the Book 
of Reference (Document Reference 4.3). 
5.11 
The location of the Gas Connection is shown Figure 3.2 of the Environmental 
Statement Figures (Document Reference 6.3).  
Design: Pipeline 
5.12 
APL will be responsible for the design of the Gas Pipeline.  
5.13 
The Gas Pipeline would be designed, constructed and tested to comply with the 
Institute of Gas Engineers’ (IGE) Recommendations on Transmission and 
Distribution Practice – IGE/TD/1: Edition 5, 2009 - Steel Pipelines and Associated 
Installations for High Pressure Gas Transmission (IGE/TD/1). 
5.14 
The standard Gas Pipeline wall thickness would comply with the requirements of 
IGE/TD/1, which defines the minimum safe separation distance between a high 
pressure gas pipeline and normally inhabited buildings / major roads / major railways.  
This minimum safe separation distance is known as the Building Proximity Distance 
(BPD).  If normally inhabited buildings / major roads / major railways are closer than 
1 BPD (i.e. the gas pipeline is in an area where additional protection is required), 
thicker wall steel pipe (known as proximity pipe) would be used.  The exact locations 
and lengths of where thicker wall steel pipe would be used would be confirmed 
throughout the assessment and detailed design stages. 
5.15 
The Gas Pipeline would be buried to a depth of cover which is in accordance with 
recognised industry standards.  For example, depths of cover would be: 
• 
No less than 1.2 m in agricultural land; 
• 
No less than 2 m under road crossings; and 
• 
No less than 1.7 m under water crossings. 
5.16 
For the purposes of construction, the Gas Pipeline would be accessed via the 
Laydown Area, which forms part of the Power Generation Plant Site and from the 
AGI location adjacent to Feeder 28, to the south of Rhyd-y-pandy Road where a new 
access point to the AGI will be created.  
Design: AGI 
5.17 
Connection to the National Gas Transmission System at any high pressure pipeline 
location will require two adjacent above ground facilities to be installed; a MOC, which 
would be designed, constructed, owned and operated by NGG, and a PTF which 
 
9 
 
would be designed, constructed, owned and operated by APL (these two facilities 
together constitute the AGI).  The AGI would contain the following pieces of 
equipment. 
5.18 
The MOC (approximately 35x35m) would contain: 
• 
Remotely Operable Valve (ROV); 
• 
Control and Instrumentation Kiosk; 
• 
Electrical Supply Kiosk. 
5.19 
PTF (approximately 35x35m) would contain: 
• 
PIG Launching Facility; 
• 
Emergency Control Valve; 
• 
Isolation Valve; 
• 
Control and Instrumentation Kiosk; 
• 
Electrical Supply Kiosk. 
5.20 
The AGI would be accessed via Rhyd-y-pandy road. A short length of purpose built 
tarmacadam access track would be constructed between Rhyd-y-pandy road and the 
AGI in order to allow infrequent maintenance visits.  
Construction 
5.21 
APL will responsible for the construction of the Gas Pipeline and PTF. The MOC will 
be constructed by NGG. 
5.22 
Construction of the Gas Pipeline would take place within a temporary fenced strip of 
land called the ‘working width’. The gas pipeline working width is required to facilitate 
safe construction and the protection of off-site receptors. 
5.23 
It is likely that the working width would be approximately 50 m along the length of the 
Gas Pipeline route, although it may be necessary to increase / decrease the working 
width at specific points. For example, adjacent to crossings of the Feeder 28, it will 
be necessary to increase the working width to provide additional working areas and 
storage for materials or special plant. Alternatively, adjacent to areas of conservation 
or existing services it may be necessary to decrease the working width. These 
working widths can be seen on the Land Plans (Document Reference 2.2). 
5.24 
Access to the working width during construction will be at defined points at each end 
of the working width shown (where relevant) on the Rights of Way, Streets and 
Access Plans (Document Reference 2.4). These points would be carefully controlled 
and signposted, and gates / stiles would be incorporated into the temporary fences 
wherever access must be maintained. 
5.25 
Aside from any special crossings, where trenchless techniques (HDD or auger bore) 
may be used to reduce impact on sensitive areas, it is expected that the Gas Pipeline 
will be constructed using standard open-cut cross-country pipeline construction 
 
10 
 
techniques. The main activities will include: fencing; topsoil stripping; pipe stringing 
(the process of laying the pipe end to end) and welding; trench excavation; pipe laying 
(positioning of the welded pipe into the trench); back filling; pressure testing, drying 
and pipeline pigging operations; and re-instatement of the land.  
5.26 
Topsoil would be stripped within the working width along the Gas Pipeline route and 
a temporary trackway would be established to allow the movement of pipeline 
construction machinery. The Gas Pipeline would be constructed from lengths of 
factory coated steel pipe of a length of up to approximately 12 m. These are normally 
off-loaded with cranes at road crossings or at temporary laydown areas, transported 
along the working width and laid out on timbers adjacent to the trench line in 
preparation for welding and lowering into the trench. The individual lengths of pipe 
are then welded together to form the pipeline string which is then subjected to 
inspection. Once the welds are accepted, a standard coating is applied on site to 
girth weld location points. The pipeline coating is then tested electronically along the 
whole of its length to detect damage or other defects, which if present would be 
repaired before re-testing. 
5.27 
The pipeline trench will be excavated and the welded pipeline will be lowered into a 
prepared trench for backfilling with appropriate selected fill. 
5.28 
Following some replacement of the top soil then a programme of testing will 
commence to ensure the Gas Pipeline is fit for purpose.  
Operation 
5.29 
APL will be responsible for the operation of the Gas Pipeline and PTF. NGG will be 
responsible for the operation of the MOC.  
5.30 
The Gas Connection would remain operational for the entire lifetime of the Power 
Generation Plant. No parts of the Gas Connection would be manned. Telemetry 
apparatus (both within the pipeline trench and at the AGI) would report back any 
issues to a central control room.  
Maintenance 
5.31 
APL will be responsible for the maintenance of the Gas Pipeline and PTF. NGG will 
be responsible for the operation of the MOC.  
5.32 
Should any significant operational issues be identified, the Gas Pipeline would be 
isolated and the supply switched off, pending investigation of any faults.  Access to 
the AGI during maintenance / repair would be via a new access created off Rhyd-y-
pandy road, as already described for construction access.  
5.33 
No new access points would be created to access the Gas Pipeline. In the unlikely 
event that there are issues with the operation of the Gas Pipeline, the route would be 
accessed through existing open fields. 
5.34 
Protective provisions will be agreed with National Grid Gas ensuring they have a right 
to access their pipelines which will be crossed by the APL Gas Pipeline. 
 
11 
 
6. 
ACQUISITION OF LAND AND RIGHTS  
6.1 
The proposed draft DCO (Document Reference 3.1) includes powers to 
compulsorily acquire land and rights to allow APL to construct, use and maintain 
the Gas Connection. These are fully described in the Book of Reference (Document 
number 4.3). 
6.2 
These powers include acquisition of the freehold of the site of the AGI and new 
access. In respect of the Gas Pipeline route, powers include rights for APL and all 
persons authorised on its behalf to enter on foot, with or without vehicles, plant and 
machinery for all purposes in connection with the laying, installation, use and 
maintenance of a high pressure gas pipeline up to 250 mm nominal bore, 
telecommunications, other ancillary apparatus and any other works as necessary 
together with the right to install, retain, use, maintain, inspect, repair, adjust, alter, 
remove, refurbish, reconstruct, replace and improve the said pipeline, 
telecommunications, other ancillary apparatus and any other works necessary for 
the purpose of constructing and installing the said pipeline, telecommunications, 
other ancillary apparatus and any other works necessary together with the right to 
fell, trim or lop trees and bushes which may obstruct or interfere with the said 
pipeline, telecommunications or other ancillary apparatus, together with temporary 
use, together with associated restrictions on erecting buildings or structures, 
altering ground levels, planting trees or carrying out operations or actions which 
may obstruct, interrupt, or interfere with the exercise of the said rights. 
6.3 
APL has a contract in place to secure some of the land required for the Project (this 
includes parts of the land required for the Generating Equipment and the Gas 
Connection). Negotiations are in progress with regard to the purchase of land, the 
acquisition of and/or creation of new rights and imposition of restrictions required 
over the remainder of the land required for the Gas Connection. The Statement of 
Reasons at Document Reference 4.1 contains the latest status of negotiations with 
the landowner. 
 
12 
 
7. 
 CONSENTS FOR THE CONNECTION WORKS 
7.1 
APL is required to submit a statement pursuant to regulation 6 of the APFP 
Regulations to provide "a statement of who will be responsible for designing and 
building the gas pipeline connection to the generating station". 
7.2 
APL considers that this statement provides confirmation to the Secretary of State 
that: 
• 
APL will secure a design and build agreement with NGG regarding 
connection of the Generating Equipment; 
• 
The agreement will provide that APL will design and build the Gas Pipeline 
and PTF, with NGG building and owning the MOC; 
• 
If the draft DCO is made on substantively the same terms as those submitted 
in May 2018, APL will secure the necessary land and rights to allow NGG 
and itself to construct, operate and maintain the Gas Connection; 
• 
APL will obtain planning permission for the Gas Connection through the 
Town and Country Planning Act 1990; and 
• 
Preliminary discussions with NGG have indicated the likelihood that gas 
capacity is available in Feeder 28 for APL requirements.  
 
 
