 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
ABERGELLI POWER PROJECT 
Abergelli Farm, 
Felindre, Swansea 
 
Statement of Community Consultation 
 
 
 
January 2018 
www.abergellipower.co.uk 
 
 
January 2018 
2 
 
 
 
Statement of Community Consultation 
 
This Statement of Community Consultation (“SoCC”) is published in connection with a proposed 
gas-fired power station, including its gas and electrical connections, at Abergelli Farm (the 
“Project”). It explains how individuals living and working locally, as well as other interests such as 
local businesses and local civic/community organisations, can comment on the proposals to 
construct and operate the Project. The Project Site is situated north of Swansea in the City & 
County of Swansea (north of M4, Junction 46), approximately 1km southeast of Felindre and 
1.5km north of Llangyfelach. 
 
 
 
APL: location plan and application boundary 
 
The Project was initially taken through the first stages of the Development Consent Order (“DCO”) 
application process in 2014. However, in March 2015, the Project was put on hold due to market 
and political uncertainty. Under new ownership (see below) the Project is now once again being 
January 2018 
3 
 
taken forward.  
 
The capacity of the Power Generation Plant will be up to 299 MW of electricity. As such, it is 
classified as a Nationally Significant Infrastructure Project (NSIP) under the Planning Act 2008 
(as amended) (the “Planning Act 2008”). This requires a DCO, granted under the Planning Act 
2008 to build and operate, granted by the Secretary of State for Business, Energy and Industrial 
Strategy.  
 
This SoCC is part of a consultation process, required by the Planning Act 2008. This SoCC 
explains how Abergelli Power Limited (“APL”), the promoter of the Project, proposes to consult 
people living in the vicinity of the Project, businesses and other organisations about the Project, 
in advance of submitting an application for a DCO for the Power Generation Plant in Q2 2018. 
The consultation process is designed to enable informed, detailed and two-way communication 
and responses will be taken into account prior to the submission of the application for a DCO.  
 
APL carried out both statutory and non-statutory consultation as part of its work in 2014. As part 
of the 2014 statutory consultation, a SoCC was published after having been consulted on with the 
local planning authority and this SoCC is closely modelled on the 2014 SoCC. APL has had regard 
to the responses received as part of the 2014 non-statutory and statutory consultation and these 
have influenced the further iteration of the Project design that is now being consulted on in 2018. 
More information about the 2014 Consultation activities and feedback can be found in the 
Summary of 2014 Consultation Activities, which is being published alongside this SoCC.  Both 
documents are available from APL or via its website www.abergellipower.co.uk. The website is 
bilingual, in both English and Welsh.  
 
APL has consulted City & County of Swansea Council as the local planning authority about the 
content of this SoCC and has had regard to the council’s response.  
 
APL is a subsidiary business of Drax Group plc (“Drax”), a longstanding British energy company 
that generates around 7% of the country’s electricity. In addition to operating the largest power 
station in the country in North Yorkshire, Drax is seeking to develop three other flexible gas fired 
power stations sites across the country: one at Eye Airfield in Suffolk, one near Aberdare in south 
Wales and the third near Millbrook in Bedfordshire. Further information on Drax can be found at 
www.drax.com. 
January 2018 
4 
 
This Statement explains: 
• Some details about the Project; 
• How APL is publishing preliminary environmental information about the Project; 
• How APL is going to consult local people and communities about the Project and what activities 
will be undertaken to give them access to information about the proposal and help them to 
understand what particular aspects of the Project may mean to them, enabling them to provide 
informed feedback; 
• How people can become involved in influencing the Project before a DCO application is 
submitted by putting forward their views, particularly regarding specific options under 
consideration; and 
• How people can provide feedback to APL from consultation activities and ensure that they are 
informed about the Project. 
 
The Project 
The key details of the proposed Project are: 
• The construction of a Power Generation Plant with a rated electrical output of up to 299 
MW. The plant will have one stack, of up to 45 m in height. The nearby transmission towers 
are approximately the same height. 
• An Access Road to the Project Site, formed by extending an existing access road from the 
B4489 
• The Power Generation Plant includes provision of a Laydown Area for temporary use during 
construction, and a permanent Maintenance Compound. 
• The Power Generation Plant will produce electricity from natural gas – designed as a 
‘peaking plant’ and would operate for up to a maximum of 2,250 hours in given year, 
provided that the five-year rolling average does not exceed 1,500 hours per year. 
• The lifespan of the Project is anticipated to be 25 years. 
• The Project will include construction of a new underground electrical connection (up to 1km 
in length) to the nearby National Grid Electricity Transmission System and the construction 
of a new underground pipeline (up to 1.4km in length) to bring natural gas to the Power 
Generation Plant from the National Gas Transmission System (although development 
consent for the gas pipeline and electrical connection will not be sought as part of the DCO 
application). 
• The Project will create approximately 150 jobs during a construction period lasting two years 
and up to 15 permanent jobs once commercial operations have begun. 
• It responds to the UK Government’s need for new gas generation in order to underpin the 
country’s energy security and its transition to a low-carbon economy; 
January 2018 
5 
 
• The station would emit about 50% less carbon dioxide (CO2) than an equivalent sized coal-
fired power plant, and is designed to operate flexibly so that it can respond quickly and 
efficiently to short-term variation in customer demand and intermittent output from wind and 
solar power generation. 
It is acknowledged that during construction and operation there is potential for adverse effects on 
some local communities and the environment, for example noise and traffic during the construction 
phase, and the visual effects of the new stack. An Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) is being 
undertaken; the EIA seeks to understand and to minimise the potential effects of the Project’s 
construction and operation. More information on this process is provided below. The EIA process is 
also considering the potential positive effects of the operation of the Project. 
 
The Planning Process 
 
DCO applications for NSIPs are submitted to the Planning Inspectorate which will process and 
examine the application before making a recommendation to the relevant Secretary of State. The 
final decision on the application is made by the Secretary of State and if it is successful, a DCO 
will be made.  
In the context of generating stations in Wales, the Planning Act 2008 restricts what can be applied 
for through the DCO process to development that is integral to and forms part of the NSIP. For the 
APL Project, the integral elements are the Power Generation Plant, the Laydown 
Area/Maintenance Compound and the Access Road. The APL DCO application will not seek 
consent to construct and operate the gas or electrical connections; instead a planning application 
will be made under the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 or permitted development rights will 
be utilised (as applicable). However, compulsory acquisition powers for the land and rights required 
to construct, operate and maintain the gas and electrical connections will be included within the 
DCO application. 
 
The Government's policies in relation to NSIPs are set out in National Policy Statements (NPSs). 
The Project has been developed with regard to the relevant Energy NPSs, in particular EN-1 
(Energy), EN-2 (Fossil Fuel Electricity Generating Infrastructure) and EN-5 (Electricity Networks 
Infrastructure). EN-1 states that "gas will continue to play an important role in the electricity sector- 
providing vital flexibility to support an increasing amount of low-carbon generation and to maintain 
security of supply". 
 
 
January 2018 
6 
 
When determining a DCO application, the Secretary of State must have regard to the relevant 
NPSs and must make a decision in accordance with these unless they are satisfied that the 
adverse impact of the Project would outweigh its benefits. 
 
When considering whether to accept an application for examination, the Planning Inspectorate 
must be satisfied that the applicant has undertaken effective pre- application consultation in 
accordance with the provisions of the Planning Act 2008. Pre-application consultation is essential 
in allowing APL to understand and seek to minimise the effects of the Project. APL is required to 
submit a Consultation Report with its application for a DCO. This report will include details of the 
local community feedback received (both in 2014/2015 and in 2018), explain how APL has had 
regard to the feedback and will detail how APL has complied with the consultation requirements of 
the Planning Act 2008. 
 
The community consultation described in this statement is carried out under Section 47 of the 
Planning Act 2008. It is in addition to consultation that will be carried out with specific statutory 
consultees (such as statutory nature conservation bodies) and those with relevant interests in land 
(including owners and occupiers within the Project boundary) under Section 42 of the Planning Act 
2008. It is also in addition to wider publication of the proposed Project under Section 48 of the 
Planning Act 2008. 
 
Information on the planning process for NSIPs and the NPSs can be found at: 
http://infrastructure.planningportal.gov.uk 
 
Environmental Information & Effects 
The Project will be designed and developed to meet or exceed current quality, safety and 
environmental standards and efforts will be made to minimise its effect on the local environment, 
during its construction, operation and decommissioning. The extent and scale of the Project and 
APL’s proposals to mitigate its effects will be amongst the issues considered by the Planning 
Inspectorate on behalf of the Secretary of State. 
 
Because of the nature and size of the Project, APL is undertaking an EIA pursuant to the 
Infrastructure Planning (Environmental Impact Assessment) Regulations 2009 (EIA Regulations 
2009). Therefore, the project is classed as an EIA development.  The Project falls under the EIA 
Regulations 2009 regime and not the Infrastructure Planning (Environmental Impact Assessment) 
January 2018 
7 
 
Regulations 2017 (EIA Regulations 2017) regime. This is because a scoping opinion was 
requested from the Secretary of State under the EIA Regulations 2009 and prior to the date on 
which the EIA Regulations 2017 apply to projects. This means that, in accordance with the 
transitional arrangements at Regulation 37 of the EIA Regulations 2017, the EIA Regulations 2009 
will continue to apply to the Project.  
  
The EIA considers the potential effects of the Project including: air quality; noise and vibration; 
ecology; water quality and resources; geology and ground conditions; landscape and visual; traffic, 
transport and access; historic environment; and socio- economics. 
 
APL has consulted with various statutory bodies concerning the scope of the EIA, including the 
local authority, Natural Resources Wales (NRW), the South Wales Trunk Road Agency, and utility 
providers. A request for a Scoping Opinion was submitted to the Planning Inspectorate on June 
25th 2014, accompanied by a Scoping Report. The Scoping Report outlined which environmental 
topics would be covered by the EIA and how the assessments would be undertaken. The Planning 
Inspectorate issued its formal Scoping Opinion on 1st August 2014. 
 
These documents are available on the Abergelli Power website (www.abergellipower.co.uk) and 
via 
the 
dedicated 
section 
on 
the 
Planning 
Inspectorate's 
website: 
http://infrastructure.planningportal.gov.uk/projects/wales/abergelli-power/ 
 
As part of the pre-application consultation materials on the proposed Project, APL will publish a 
Preliminary Environmental Information Report (2018 PEIR) (updated from the PEIR published as 
part of the 2014 statutory consultation) and an associated non-technical summary (2018 NTS). 
The 2018 PEIR will present the information gathered to date and provide the results of APL’s 
preliminary findings of the assessment of the likely significant environmental effects of the 
Project. It will not set out the final findings but will include information on provisional mitigation 
measures. In addition, a No Significant Effects Report will be published which considers the effects 
of the Project on European Designated sites in accordance with the Habitats Regulations. 
 
During consultation, APL will make available details on landscaping proposals and other measures 
to mitigate the Project’s impact. APL will provide copies of the 2018 PEIR and its associated 2018 
NTS to City & County of Swansea Council as the local planning authority. The 2018 NTS will also 
January 2018 
8 
 
be available in Welsh.  The 2018 PEIR, 2018 NTS and Welsh language 2018 NTS and No 
Significant Effects Report documents will also be made available at: local libraries; at public 
exhibitions held as part of the consultation process and on the APL website. For more information 
on the materials to be made available, where and in which format, see How will we consult? 
below. 
 
When the EIA process is complete and APL submits its application for a DCO, it will be 
accompanied by an Environmental Statement. This will report on the likely significant 
environmental effects of the Project identified in the EIA and will explain the mitigation measures 
to avoid or reduce these. 
 
Public Consultation 
The views of the local community about the Project are important. In May/June 2014, APL carried 
out a non-statutory consultation process. In June 2014, APL shared its plans with the public at 
three exhibitions held in Clydach, Felindre and Tircoed, following distribution of a letter of 
introduction about the Project to approximately 5,500 households and businesses in the immediate 
vicinity of the Project Site.  A total of 94 people attended the three exhibitions and provided 
comments on the proposed Project, community benefits and consultation process.  In 
October/November 2014, a 35 day period of statutory public consultation was carried out, with four 
public exhibitions held in the local area – at Llangyfelach, Clydach, Felindre and Tircoed, following 
distribution of a leaflet about the Project and consultation programme to households, businesses 
and institutions in the Core Consultation Zone (CCZ). A total of 106 people attended the four 
exhibitions and provided a range of feedback, predominantly relating to the need for the Project, 
site selection process, consultation process, community benefits and potential landscape, 
transport and socio-economic impacts.  APL reviewed and responded to the comments received 
throughout the 2014 consultation and have taken the comments into account in the evolution of 
the Project.   
The various consultation activities during 2014 helped inform the Project’s development and led to 
APL’s decision to:  
• Reduce the number of stacks from a maximum of five to one; 
• Change the maximum stack height from 40 m to 45 m; 
 
• Consolidate the Generating Equipment Site to the north of the Water Main; 
 
January 2018 
9 
 
• Select an access route from the B4489 to the west of the Generating Equipment instead of 
the access route from the north; and  
 
• Select an underground cable option for the Electrical Connection, instead of an overhead 
line option.  
 
a. 
What are we now consulting on and when? 
In March 2015, APL chose to put on hold its plans for the Project and notified interested parties by 
letter and information posted on the Project website that this was the case. Under the ownership 
of Drax, APL now wishes to resume the DCO application process for the Project. Accordingly, and 
given APL’s open and engaged approach to consultation in 2014, APL wishes to commence a 
second phase of statutory consultation, commencing on 16th January 2018 (and finishing on 19th 
February 2018), seeking views on the preliminary environmental information presented about the 
Project as well as on other key elements of the Project listed below. After responses have been 
considered, the design will be finalised and the application for a DCO will be submitted. 
Responses will be invited on: 
 
• The Power Generation Plant, as currently proposed, including changes since the 
2014 consultation;  
• The proposed route option(s) for the Access Road;  
• The indicative layout of the Power Generation Plant within the Project Site; and 
• The preliminary findings of the assessment as to the likely significant environmental effects of 
the Project; 
The consultation explained in this Statement will run for 35 days from 16th January until 19th 
February 2018. Comments about the Project must be received by APL by this date. 
 
b. 
Who will we consult with? 
The Planning Act 2008 (as amended) states that those ‘living in the vicinity of the land’ should be 
consulted.  APL has discussed the scope of the consultation with City & County of Swansea (CCS) 
as the local planning authority, and has identified and agreed the Consultation Zones that form the 
basis of the community consultation. 
 
APL will carry out its consultation activities in two areas: a Core Consultation Zone (CCZ) that 
equates to an approximate radius of 3.5km from the Project Site and an Outer Consultation Zone 
(OCZ) that equates to a radius of approximately 8km.  These consultation zones are the same as 
January 2018 
10 
 
those used by APL during 2014 consultation. 
 
The CCZ has been designed to include the main population areas in the vicinity of the Project Site 
(located in the CCS ward of Mawr) that have the potential to be affected by the Project and 
expected to have the greatest interest in the Project. The zone includes the villages of Clydach, 
Felindre, Llangyfelach and Tircoed, and all or parts of the following communities/ community 
council areas: Clydach, Llangyfelach, Mawr, Morriston, Mynyddbach, Penllergaer, Penderry, 
Llwchwr, Grovesend & Waungron and Pontlliw & Tircoed. An information leaflet will be sent to 
households, businesses and institutions in the CCZ and the CCZ will be the focus of public 
exhibitions (see below). 
 
 
Proposed Core Consultation Zone – approx. 3.5 km radius from the Project Site 
 
Communities within the OCZ will be informed about the Project (via newspaper advertisements, 
posters, media coverage and contact with local elected members and community councils in the 
OCZ and other relevant local organisations) and given the opportunity to comment on the plans. 
January 2018 
11 
 
The outer zone includes the main population area of the city of Swansea. 
 
 
Proposed Outer Consultation Zone – approx. 8 km radius from the Project Site 
 
APL does not anticipate that the communities and businesses which lie within the OCZ will be 
significantly impacted by the Project’s construction and operation although APL recognises that 
they may be interested in it. Those outside the two zones will be informed about the project via the 
Swansea-based South Wales Evening Post for two weeks prior to the first event taking place as 
well as via local and regional news publications, local radio and TV stations (and via online media) 
and social media. The newspaper advertisements (and media coverage), will reach those outside 
the CCZ and OCZ as well as those within the CCZ and OCZ themselves.  Feedback that is received 
within the consultation period will be considered. The content will give information on APL’s 
proposals and details of the consultation events, including contact information. 
 
 
c. 
How will we consult? 
APL will seek and receive people’s views through a number of activities: 
January 2018 
12 
 
• 
Public exhibitions will be held at Clydach, Felindre, Llangyfelach and Tircoed within the CCZ. 
In line with the statutory consultation process undertaken in 2014 (and feedback received), 
these continue to be considered the most convenient locations to those communities within 
the CCZ that surround the Project Site.  APL will arrange for them to be held at convenient 
times including an event to be held on a Saturday for those unable to visit during the working 
week.  APL will use venues that meet Equality Act 2010 requirements and upon a reasonable 
and timely request will make provision for those with special requirements who are unable to 
attend or access a consultation event (for example, private transport to a consultation event). 
• 
The public exhibitions will feature relevant information in a variety of formats (display panels, 
plans, leaflet etc.) about the Project, in both English and Welsh. The 2018 PEIR, reviewed and 
updated from 2014 consultation, will also be made available for review. Members of the APL 
project team will be available to discuss the Project, answer questions and to receive feedback 
from members of the public.  Feedback forms in English and Welsh, allowing people to provide 
their views on the Project, will be available at these exhibitions; 
• 
A leaflet will be delivered to households, businesses and institutions in the CCZ at least one 
week in advance of the first consultation event, informing them of the consultation events 
taking place, and made available at local council offices, local libraries and other venues as 
appropriate. The leaflet will also be distributed to those groups that are defined as “hard to 
reach” (for example, the elderly, the young and minority groups). It will give background on the 
Project, the consultation process (including exhibitions) and how individuals can engage in it. 
The leaflet will be made available at libraries and council offices in the OCZ. This leaflet will be 
produced in both English and Welsh. 
• 
During the statutory consultation period APL will engage with elected members of City and 
County of Swansea Council, community councils, the local MP and AMs whose constituency 
covers the CCZ, to discuss the Project.   
• The following information will be available at the locations below: 
− 
Hard copies of the SoCC, the leaflet, the 2018 PEIR and 2018 NTS; and  
− 
Electronic copies of the Welsh language 2018 NTS, No Significant Effects Report 
and technical appendices to the 2018 PEIR. 
 
 
January 2018 
13 
 
 
 
Swansea Central 
Library 
Civic Centre 
Oystermouth Road 
Swansea SA1 3SN 
(01792) 636464 
Clydach Library 
High Street 
Clydach, 
Swansea SA6 5LN 
(01792) 843300 
Gorseinon Library 
15 West Street 
Gorseinon 
Swansea SA4 4AA 
(01792) 516780 
Morriston Library 
Treharne Road 
Morriston 
Swansea SA6 7AA 
(01792) 516770 
Pontarddulais 
Library 
St Michael’s 
Avenue 
Pontarddulais 
Swansea SA4 8TE 
(01792) 882822 
Monday 
CLOSED 
9.30-17.30 
9.00-18.00 
9.00-18.00 
9.00- 13.00 and 
14.00 - 17.00 
Tuesday 
8.30-20.00 
9.30-17.30 
9.00-18.00 
9.00-18.00 
9.00- 13.00 and 
14.00 - 17.00 
Wednesday 
8.30-20.00 
9.30-17.30 
9.00-18.00 
9.00-18.00 
9.00- 13.00 and 
14.00 - 17.00 
Thursday 
8.30-20.00 
9.30-17.30 
9.00-18.00 
9.00-18.00 
9.00- 13.00 and 
14.00 - 17.00 
Friday 
8.30-20.00 
9.30-18.30 
9.00-19.00 
9.00-18.00 
9.00- 13.00 and 
14.00 - 18.00 
Saturday 
10.00-16.00 
9.30-16.30 
9.00-17.00 
9.00-17.00 
9.00- 13.00 
Sunday 
10.00-16.00 
CLOSED 
CLOSED 
CLOSED 
CLOSED 
 
• The leaflet and other information about the Project can be made available in other formats 
(e.g. large print or braille) and the Welsh language upon reasonable request; 
• A website (www.abergellipower.co.uk) provides information on the Project as well as 
access to documents, and provide visitors the opportunity to ask questions or make 
comments online; 
• An e-mail address to which individuals can write (provided at the end of this document); 
• A Freepost mailbox to which people can send questions or comments (provided at the end 
of this document); 
• APL will also notify the local community about the Project and the consultation events via 
posters in the local community, newspaper advertisements and media coverage; 
• In addition, APL will contact a broad spectrum of local stakeholders. These will include 
elected representatives, local community, special interest groups (including those “hard to 
reach groups” such as the young, elderly and the disabled), and local business groups. 
APL will provide them with information on the Project and undertake briefings where 
appropriate. 
 
Comments and queries via telephone (as well as via post, email or fax) will be considered and 
addressed within the scheme where possible, as well as comments noted. Comments will be 
accepted for a period of 35 days following the launch of the statutory period of consultation. 
 
January 2018 
14 
 
 
 
 
KEY DATES 
ACTIVITY 
2nd January 2018 
Statement of Community Consultation published 
16th January 2018 
Consultation period starts 
PUBLIC EXHIBITIONS 
7th February 2018 
16.00 – 19.00 
Llangyfelach 
Church 
Hall, 
Swansea 
Road, 
Llangyfelach, Swansea SA5 7JA 
8th February 2018 
15.30 – 18.30 
Forge 
Fach Resource 
Centre,
 
Hebron 
Road, Clydach, Swansea SA6 
5EJ 
9th February 2018 
17.00 – 20.00 
Tircoed Village Hall, Y Cyswllt, Tircoed SA4 9QZ  
10th February 2018 
10.00 – 13.00 
Felindre Welfare Hall, Felindre, Swansea SA5 7NA 
19th February 2018 
Consultation period closes 
Q2 2018 
DCO Application submitted 
Q2 2018 
Planning Inspectorate publicly notifies the acceptance 
of application and sets examination timetable, likely to 
run during Q3 2018. 
 
Contact details 
APL welcomes queries and comments:  
Website: 
www.abergellipower.co.uk  
Email: 
info@abergellipower.co.uk 
Post: 
Freepost ABERGELLI POWER 
Phone: 
01792 957 026 
 
 
Individuals and organisations wishing to respond should include their name and an address 
where correspondence about the response can be sent. Responses may be made public, 
subject to data protection laws. 
Comments made at any stage of the consultation process will be recorded and carefully 
considered by APL as part of the process of preparing the final proposals for its application to 
the Planning Inspectorate. The Consultation Report, which will accompany the DCO 
application, will detail the consultation activities, the feedback received and APL’s response to 
the issues that are raised during the process. 
January 2018 
15 
 
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS  
 
 
Acronym 
Term 
2018 PEIR 
2018 Preliminary Environmental Information Report 
2018 NTS 
2018 Non-technical Summary 
AM 
Assembly Member 
APL 
Abergelli Power Limited 
CCZ 
Core Consultation Zone 
 DCO 
Development Consent Order 
EIA 
Environmental Impact Assessment 
NPS 
National Policy Statement 
NSIP 
Nationally Significant Infrastructure Project 
NRW 
Natural Resources Wales 
MP 
Member of Parliament 
OCZ 
Outer Consultation Zone 
SoCC 
Statement of Community Consultation 
 
