 
POWER STATION PROJECT UPDATE – February 6th 2015 
 
I am writing to update you on Millbrook Power's proposal to construct and operate a gas-
fired power station on a site at Rookery South Pit together with an integral gas connection 
and electrical connection. 
 
As you know, Millbrook Power (MPL) undertook statutory public consultation regarding the 
Project last autumn (October/November).  Since then, MPL has considered the responses, 
carried out further technical and environment studies and refined its proposals in 
anticipation of submitting its application for a Development Consent Order for the Project 
before the end of March.  
 
We wanted to update you on how MPL has refined its proposals in response to the feedback 
received during the consultation process.   
 
One key area of feedback has related to the proposed Electrical Connection. As you may 
recall, the proposed Project includes the construction, operation and maintenance of a new 
electrical connection together with a new substation to connect the power generation plant 
to the existing overhead power line nearby.  
 
Our work over recent months, carried out in consultation with National Grid, had pointed us 
towards an electrical connection comprising two overhead lines and up to seven new 
transmission towers.  However after further consideration by the MPL team of various 
factors (including perceived impact, engineering issues and cost), and acknowledging the 
views expressed by local people, we have taken the decision to underground the connection 
as much as possible. 
 
This means that no new transmission towers for the Project will be built (one existing tower, 
which stands 46m high, will be replaced by one that is 48m).  In order for the underground 
cable connection to connect into the National Grid, there will be a need for either one or 
two “connection areas” known as Sealing End Compounds to be built adjacent to the 
existing transmission lines.  Central Bedfordshire and Bedford Borough councillors as well as 
local parish councillors have welcomed MPL’s decision to underground the necessary 
electrical connection. 
 
The location of the sub-station remains within Rookery South Pit, next to the generation 
plant.   
 
We have also made some other adjustments to the Project since the autumn consultation 
including the route of the underground of the gas pipeline connection and the Project’s 
boundary lines.  The height of the chimney stacks (up to five) has been reduced to no more 
than 35 metres high from the base of Rookery South Pit, which is approximately 15m deep.  
We have also finalised the routes that construction traffic would use to and from the site in 
order to avoid driving through residential areas and plans have been drawn up for how the 
Project will be landscaped and screened to minimise its visual impact. 
 
As mentioned previously, the submission under the Planning Act 2008 for the application for 
a Development Consent Order for the Project will be made by MPL before the end of March.  
Should the application be accepted by the Planning Inspectorate (a decision would be made 
within 28 days of the application being received by the Planning Inspectorate), then MPL 
would notify the local community, statutory consultees and relevant landowners of the 
acceptance of the application and invite those who are interested to register with the 
Planning Inspectorate in order to remain involved in the process of considering and 
examining the accepted application.  
 
Details of the application would also be published in hard copy in local authority offices and 
in various libraries in the area. The information would also be made available on the 
planning inspectorate’s website (http://infrastructure.planningportal.gov.uk/), and our 
website www.millbrookpower.co.uk  will carry information also.  
 
The Planning Inspectorate would then take up to six months to examine the accepted 
application for the Project (this process would include receiving representations from those 
who have registered an interest in the Project). Following completion of its examination, the 
Planning Inspectorate would then have three months to report to the Secretary of State, 
who would themselves have three months in which to make a decision on whether or not to 
grant consent for the Project. 
 
Please do not hesitate to contact MPL, should you require any further information.  You can  
contact MPL via info@millbrookpower.co.uk , via freepost (RTEY-JYYB-ERSR 49 York Place, 
Edinburgh EH1 3JD) or phone 0131 550 3380.  
 
Regards 
Nick Johnson, Project Manager at Millbrook Power Ltd 
 
