 
 
Biomass Carbon Calculator  
Consultation on calculator methodology, scope, accuracy and usability  
 
1st May 2020 
 
 
DRAX BIOMASS CARBON CALCULATOR CONSULTATION 
Page 1 of 8 
 
 
 
 
General information 
Purpose of this consultation: To seek views on the methodology, scope, accuracy and usability of the 
Drax Biomass Carbon Calculator  
Issued: 01/05/2020 
Responses by: 12/06/2020 
Enquiries to: Please send any enquiries to Michael.Goldsworthy@drax.com  
How to respond: Responses should be sent via email to Jack.Boyd@drax.com as a PDF or Microsoft 
Word document. 
Data Protection: We respect the privacy of those taking part in our consultations.  If you would like to 
know more, please read our Consultations Privacy Notice at https://www.drax.com/privacy-notices/ 
Drax will summarise all responses provided to this consultation and publish the summary on our 
website. Drax may also publish consultation responses, where permission has been provided by the 
respondent. 
 
 
DRAX BIOMASS CARBON CALCULATOR CONSULTATION 
Page 2 of 8 
 
 
 
 
Introduction 
Biomass can only be considered a low carbon, sustainable energy solution when it can be evidenced that 
significant GHG emission savings are delivered on a lifecycle basis, considering emissions released 
throughout the entire supply chain. It is therefore important that the lifecycle emissions of biomass are 
calculated and reported both accurately and transparently. 
Drax is committed to taking a leading role in the lifecycle emission reporting of biomass. We aim to 
deliver transparent and accurate reporting of our own supply chain emissions and wish to encourage 
and facilitate improved reporting across the entire industry. As a contribution towards delivering these 
objectives, Drax has developed the ‘Drax Biomass Carbon Calculator’. 
The ‘Biomass Carbon Calculator’ is a greenhouse gas (GHG) lifecycle emission tool developed by Drax for 
the purpose of calculating wood pellet supply chain GHG emissions in accordance with the UK 
Renewables Obligation (RO) and Directive (EU) 2018/2001 of the European Parliament and of the 
Council of 11 December 2018 on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources (“Directive 
(EU) 2018/2001”) 1. 
The tool has been designed to address several issues with existing publicly available GHG compliance 
tools: 
• Over-reliance on ‘default’ or ‘typical’ values 
• Inconsistencies between collected supply chain data and calculator input fields (e.g. different 
units of measurement) 
• A requirement to model the full supply chain for each feedstock type individually rather than 
allowing simultaneous modelling of feedstocks for each biomass producer 
• Lack of transparency 
To address these issues, the Biomass Carbon Calculator requires users to enter actual supply chain data 
for calculating the carbon intensity of biomass supply chains, with data inputs aligned to standard units 
of measurement used by the industry. The tool also allows users to simultaneously model up to 20 
different feedstock groups (“consignments”) and 10 different distribution routes for a single biomass 
production plant. 
 
1 https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=uriserv:OJ.L_.2018.328.01.0082.01.ENG&toc=OJ:L:2018:328:TOC  
DRAX BIOMASS CARBON CALCULATOR CONSULTATION 
Page 3 of 8 
 
 
 
 
The Calculator also includes methodologies for improving the accuracy of GHG calculations for separate 
biomass consignments processed at a single facility, namely: 
• Allocation of biomass drying emissions to each consignment in proportion to the amount of 
water removed, determined by the difference between the moisture content of each feedstock 
group at the dryer inlet and dryer outlet2 
• Accounting of biomass fuel diverted from input consignments (e.g. bark from low grade 
roundwood) through process yield adjustments rather than considering as a separate input to 
the system3 
The Calculator is appropriate for modelling supply chain GHG emissions for most biomass supply chains, 
including biomass from forestry products, forestry residues, industrial processing residues and wood 
waste streams. For biomass supply chains derived from products, where land inputs such as fertilisers 
and pesticides are required (e.g. biomass from energy crops) or where land use change has occurred, 
the calculator must be used alongside other tools (e.g. Biograce II4; The UK Solid and Gaseous Biomass 
Carbon Calculator5) for determining full supply chain GHG emissions.  
The tool has been independently reviewed against the methodology laid out in the RO and verified for 
compliance with the methodology laid out in Annex VI of Directive (EU) 2018/2001. However, Drax is 
keen to deliver further improvements and so is seeking views of all stakeholders on the Calculator, 
specifically with regards to: 
• Methodology 
• Accuracy 
• Scope 
• Usability 
Following consultation, Drax intends to update the Calculator where mutual areas for improvement 
have been identified. Once updated, Drax will undertake further third-party verification to ensure the 
Calculator remains in compliance with regulatory requirements. 
 
 
 
2 This ensures drying emission are fairly allocated to feedstock that require higher amounts of energy for drying 
3 This allows emissions relating to biomass fuel diverted from feedstock groups to be calculated based on supply chain data 
rather than through use of standard emission factors 
4 https://www.biograce.net/biograce2/ 
5 https://www.ofgem.gov.uk/publications-and-updates/uk-solid-and-gaseous-biomass-carbon-calculator 
DRAX BIOMASS CARBON CALCULATOR CONSULTATION 
Page 4 of 8 
 
 
 
 
Methodology 
The Drax Biomass Carbon Calculator is a tool aimed to improve the consistency, transparency and 
accuracy of biomass supply chain GHG emissions reported under UK and EU renewable energy support 
schemes. To meet these aims, it is necessary that the calculator meets the methodological framework 
laid out in the relevant legislation.  
Drax is therefore seeking views on whether the Drax Biomass Carbon Calculator adheres to the 
methodologies laid out in the UK Renewables Obligation and Directive (EU) 2018/2001. Drax also wishes 
to receive views on whether the calculator provides a robust and fair approach to allocating supply 
chain GHG emissions at the biomass production plant. 
Full details of the Calculator methodology are laid out in the User Guide accompanying the Calculator, 
with the full set of equations used for calculating supply chain GHG emissions available to view in the 
‘Emissions’ worksheet of the calculator.  
CONSULTATION QUESTIONS 
1. Does the calculator meet the requirements of the methodologies laid out in the regulatory guidance 
of the UK Renewables Obligation and Annex VI of Directive (EU) 2018/2001? If not, please provide all 
examples of where the Calculator does not conform to the methodologies. 
2. Is the approach to allocating drying emissions to each consignment based on the amount of water 
removed by drying a suitable approach for accurately allocating emissions? If not, please provide 
reasons why not. 
3. Is the approach to accounting of biomass fuel diverted from input consignments (e.g. bark from low 
grade roundwood) through yield adjustments more appropriate than considering this material as a 
separate input to the system? If not, please provide reasons why. 
Accuracy 
To ensure the Calculator provides an accurate calculation of biomass supply chain GHG emissions, users 
are required to manually enter all operational input data. However, it remains necessary to use this 
information alongside standard data (e.g. emission factors, transport efficiencies, fuel property data) 
and typical data (e.g. typical fuel consumption data for upstream activities) for calculation of supply 
chain GHG emissions to account for additional information that may not be available to, or recorded by, 
supply chain actors.  For ensuring accuracy, it is therefore important that all standard and typical data 
used in the Calculator are taken from credible and up-to-date resources. 
DRAX BIOMASS CARBON CALCULATOR CONSULTATION 
Page 5 of 8 
 
 
 
 
The calculator primarily uses standard and typical data from the JRC policy report, ‘Solid and gaseous 
bioenergy pathways: input values and GHG emissions’6 and Biograce II7. Drax is seeking views on 
whether these resources are appropriate for accurate calculation of biomass supply chain GHG 
emissions or whether more reliable or up-to-date datasets are available. 
CONSULTATION QUESTIONS 
4. Are the standard values and typical values used in the tool appropriate for accurately calculating the 
lifecycle GHG emissions of biomass supply chains? 
5. Are you aware of any resources providing more accurate or more up-to-date standard values or 
typical values that meet the requirements of the UK Renewables Obligation and Annex VI of 
Directive (EU) 2018/2001? 
Scope 
The Biomass Carbon Calculator has been designed with the intention of covering all material sources of 
GHG emissions for biomass supply chains within the methodological scope of the RO and Directive (EU) 
2018/2001 regulatory requirements. 
The Calculator is targeted towards the wood pellet sector, with input fields based on the typical fuel and 
energy inputs of these supply chains. For wood pellet supply chains derived from products and where 
land inputs such as fertilisers and pesticides are required (e.g. wood pellet from energy crops) or where 
land use change has occurred, users may still use the Calculator for determining full lifecycle emissions 
by independently calculating emissions associated with these inputs and including the emissions value in 
the upstream emissions of the supply chain calculation. Further details on the scope the calculator can 
be found in the User Manual. 
Drax is seeking views on whether the Calculator covers all material sources of supply chain GHG 
emissions. 
CONSULTATION QUESTIONS 
6. Are all relevant and material sources of biomass supply chain GHG emissions covered by the 
calculator? If not, please provide comment on sources of emissions omitted from the calculator. 
 
6 https://publications.jrc.ec.europa.eu/repository/bitstream/JRC104759/ld1a27215enn.pdf 
7 https://www.biograce.net/biograce2/ 
DRAX BIOMASS CARBON CALCULATOR CONSULTATION 
Page 6 of 8 
 
 
 
 
Usability 
Biomass generators such as Drax are required to process large amounts of data for determining their 
supply chain GHG emissions, typically undertaking calculations for all suppliers used to provide biomass 
for energy generation. Due to these volumes of data, it remains imperative that any GHG compliance 
tool provides a robust platform that reduces risk of data mis-entry or calculation error and that 
ultimately ensures accurate reporting. It is therefore critical that any carbon calculator used for 
regulatory compliance with sustainability criteria allows for simple and direct transfer of data between 
the primary data sources and the calculation tool. 
To this end, the Calculator is intended to align to standard data measurement units used across biomass 
supply chains and reported under biomass certification schemes such as SBP, thus allowing for 
convenient transfer of data.  
Drax is seeking views on whether the data inputs required by the calculator are consistent with those 
typically recorded by supply chain actors. Drax is also seeking views on the wider usability of the 
Calculator.  
CONSULTATION QUESTION 
7. Are the units of measurement used for data entry fields in the Calculator appropriately aligned to 
those commonly used across biomass supply chains? If not, please provide comment on additional 
or alternative units that may be appropriate. 
8. Is the Calculator intuitive and easy to use? If not, please provide comment on amendments that 
would improve the usability of the Calculator.  
Other 
Drax remains open to any further views and opinions on the Biomass Carbon Calculator that may not be 
covered by the questions above. 
CONSULTATION QUESTIONS 
9. Do you have any recommended improvements to the calculator or any further comments? 
 
 
DRAX BIOMASS CARBON CALCULATOR CONSULTATION 
Page 7 of 8 
 
 
 
 
Permission to publish 
Drax may publish consultation responses on its website where permission has been provided. Responses 
will be attributed to the company of the respondent. Personal details will not be published. If you would 
prefer for your response to be fully anonymised and omit all company information, please make this 
known in your answer to question 10. 
10. Do you give permission for Drax to publish your response to this consultation on its website? If so, 
do you wish for your response to be anonymised. 
