Chapter 2
Regulatory and Policy Background
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 2: REGULATORY AND POLICY BACKGROUND 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
2-1 
 
 
CONTENTS 
2. 
Regulatory and Policy Background .................................................................... 2 
2.1 Introduction ............................................................................................... 2 
2.2 European Union ........................................................................................ 2 
2.3 Nationally Significant Infrastructure Projects and Planning Act 2008 ........ 4 
2.4 Wales Act 2017 ......................................................................................... 5 
2.5 Infrastructure Planning (Environmental Impact Assessment) Regulations 
2009 and Infrastructure Planning (Applications: Prescribed Forms and 
Procedure) Regulations 2009 .................................................................... 5 
2.6 The Well-being of Future Generations (Wales) Act 2015 .......................... 6 
2.7 National Policy Statements ....................................................................... 6 
2.8 Other Government Policy ........................................................................ 18 
2.9 Welsh Planning Policy ............................................................................. 21 
2.10 Local Planning Policy .............................................................................. 28 
2.11 References .............................................................................................. 44 
 
TABLES 
Table 2-1 CCS LDP Examination Hearings Programme .......................................... 34 
Table 2-2 SES Themes and Vision ........................................................................... 43 
 
 
FIGURES 
Figure 2.1 Extract from UDP Proposals Map (Map 2: Urban Area East) .................. 29 
Figure 2.2 Extract from UDP Proposals Map (Key) .................................................. 29 
Figure 2.3 Extract from draft LDP Proposals Map (Map 13: Mawr) .......................... 36 
Figure 2.4 Extract from draft LDP Proposals Map (Legend) ..................................... 36 
 
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 2: REGULATORY AND POLICY BACKGROUND 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
2-2 
 
2. 
Regulatory and Policy Background 
2.1 
Introduction 
2.1.1 
This chapter summarises the main regulatory and policy framework that is relevant 
to the Project at international, national and local levels. 
2.1.2 
A summary of the European Union (EU) Directives, National Policy Statements 
(NPS) as well as national and local policy considered relevant to the Project is set 
out below.   
2.2 
European Union 
2.2.1 
The UK voted to leave the EU on the 23rd June 2016. The formal process of 
triggering Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty, to commence negotiations for exiting the 
EU, was undertaken on 29th March 2017. However, the exit process is anticipated 
to involve lengthy and complex negotiations, taking up to two years. Until the UK 
formally leaves the EU and/or discards or alters EU legislation, it is considered that 
the following EU Directives are still relevant to the Project: 
 
Directive 2011/92/EU on the assessment of the effects of certain public and 
private projects on the environment (“the EIA [“Environmental Impact 
Assessment”] Directive”) (Ref. 2.1) and Directive 2014/52/EU (Ref. 2.2); 
 
Directive 2010/75/EU of 24 November 2010 on industrial emissions (integrated 
pollution prevention and control) (“the Industrial Emissions Directive” (IED)) 
(Ref. 2.3); 
 
Directive 1992/43/EEC of 21 May 1992 on the conservation of natural habitats 
and of wild fauna and flora (“the Habitats Directive”) (Ref. 2.4); 
 
Directive 2009/147/EC of 30 November 2009 on the conservation of wild birds 
(“the Birds Directive”) (Ref. 2.5);  
 
Directive 2008/50/EC of 21 May 2008 on ambient air quality and cleaner air for 
Europe (“the Ambient Air Quality Directive”) (Ref. 2.6); and 
 
Industrial Emissions Directive 2010/75/EU – Best Available Techniques (BAT) 
reference document (BREF) for large combustion plants (July 2017) (Ref 2.7). 
 
a) Directive 2011/92/EU on the assessment of the effects of certain public and 
private projects on the environment (the EIA Directive) 
2.2.2 
The EIA Directive (Ref 2.1) ensures that plans, programmes and projects likely to 
have significant effects on the environment are made subject to an environmental 
assessment, prior to their approval or authorisation. The Directive sets the 
thresholds for projects that require an EIA and also outlines the impacts on the 
environment to be assessed in the EIA process. This Directive was implemented in 
respect of Nationally Significant Infrastructure Projects (“NSIPs”) in the UK by the 
Infrastructure Planning (Environmental Impact Assessment) Regulations 2009 (as 
amended) (the “EIA Regulations”). 
2.2.3 
It is noted here that the EIA Directive was amended in May 2014 (EU Directive 
2014/52/EU) (Ref 2.2) and the amendments have been implemented in Member 
States as of 16 May 2017. For NSIPs, such as the Project, this will be through the 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 2: REGULATORY AND POLICY BACKGROUND 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
2-3 
 
Infrastructure Planning (Environmental Impact Assessment) Regulations 2017 
(which came into force on 16th May 2017).  
2.2.4 
However, Regulation 37(2)(a) of the 2017 Regulations states that, where a scoping 
opinion has already been requested, or an application or an ES submitted, before 
the commencement of the new EIA regulations, the previous EIA regulations and 
regime will continue to apply.  Therefore, as a Scoping Report was submitted for 
the Project in June 2014, this Preliminary Environmental Information Report (PEIR) 
has been undertaken in line with the previous (2011) EIA Directive and associated 
EIA Regulations.  
b) Directive 2010/75/EU of 24 November 2010 on industrial emissions (integrated 
pollution prevention and control) (the Industrial Emissions Directive (IED)); 
2.2.5 
In December 2010 the EU adopted a proposal for a Directive on industrial 
emissions (IED) (Ref. 2.3). The IED recasts seven existing directives related to 
industrial emissions, in particular Directive 2008/1/EC of 15th January 2008 
concerning integrated pollution prevention and control (IPPC) (“the IPPC 
Directive”), and Directive 2001/80/EC of 23rd October 2001 on the limitation of 
emissions of certain pollutants into the air from large combustion plants (“the Large 
Combustion Plant Directive (LCPD)”), into a single legislative instrument to improve 
the permitting, compliance and enforcement regimes adopted by Member States. 
However, the general principles of the IPPC Directive and the LCPD Directive are 
retained and will remain relevant to the Project. The IED has been implemented in 
England and Wales by the Environmental Permitting (England and Wales) 
Regulations 2016. 
c) Directive 1992/43/EEC of 21 May 1992 on the Conservation of natural habitats 
and of wild fauna and flora (the Habitats Directive); 
2.2.6 
The aim of the Habitats Directive (Ref 2.4) is to contribute towards ensuring bio-
diversity through the conservation of natural habitats and of wild fauna and flora. 
Measures taken pursuant to this Directive by the Member States are designed to 
maintain or restore, at favourable conservation status, natural habitats and species 
of wild fauna and flora of community interest whilst also taking into account 
economic, social and cultural requirements, and regional and local characteristics.  
2.2.7 
The Conservation of Habitats and Species Regulations 2010 (the "Habitats 
Regulations") implement the Habitats Directive in England and Wales. The Habitats 
Regulations contain five Parts and four Schedules, and provide for:  
 The designation and protection of “European Sites;”  
 The protection of “European protected species;” and  
 The adaptation of planning and other controls for the protection of European 
Sites. 
 
 
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 2: REGULATORY AND POLICY BACKGROUND 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
2-4 
 
d) Directive 2009/147/EC of 30 November 2009 on the conservation of wild birds 
(the Birds Directive); 
2.2.8 
The aim of the Birds Directive (Ref 2.5) is to protect, manage and control all 
species of naturally occurring wild birds in the Member States.  Member States are 
required to take the requisite measures to maintain the population of the species at 
a level which corresponds to ecological, scientific and cultural requirements, while 
taking account of economic and recreational requirements, or to adapt the 
population of these species to that level.  The Birds Directive is implemented in 
England and Wales through the Wildlife & Countryside Act 1981 (as amended) and 
the Habitats Regulations. 
e) Directive 2008/50/EC of 21 May 2008 on ambient air quality and cleaner air for 
Europe (the Ambient Air Quality Directive); 
2.2.9 
The Ambient Air Quality Directive (Ref. 2.6) sets out measures aimed at avoiding, 
preventing or reducing harmful effects on human health and the environment, by 
seeking to combat emissions of pollutants at source and identifying and 
implementing the most effective emission reduction measures at local and national 
level.  In Wales, the Ambient Air Quality Directive is implemented by the Air Quality 
Standards (Wales) Regulations 2010. 
f) 
Industrial Emissions Directive 2010/75/EU – Best Available Techniques (BAT) 
reference document (BREF) for large combustion plants (July 2017) 
2.2.10 The BREF for the Large Combustion Plants sector covers combustion of fuels in 
installations with a total rated thermal input of 50 MW or more. It sets out a series of 
best available techniques which should be applied to large combustion plants in 
order to drive greater efficiency, cost savings and lower emissions. Given the 
nature of the Project (to operate intermittently as a peaking plant) many of the 
techniques highlighted in the BREF do not apply to the Project. Nevertheless, it is 
has been referenced where appropriate.  
2.3 
Nationally Significant Infrastructure Projects and Planning Act 2008 
2.3.1 
The generation capacity of the Power Generation Plant will exceed 50 MWe and 
will therefore be classified as a NSIP under Section 15 of the Planning Act 2008 
(“PA 2008”) (Ref. 2.8).  Accordingly, Development Consent will be required in 
accordance with Section 31 of the PA 2008. 
2.3.2 
Development Consent for a NSIP may only be granted by a Development Consent 
Order (“DCO”) through an application under Section 37 of the PA 2008 to the 
Secretary of State (“SoS”).   
2.3.3 
If the DCO Application for the Power Generation Plant is accepted by the Planning 
Inspectorate (“PINS”), it will be examined for a period of up to six months, starting 
the day after the date of the Preliminary Meeting for the Project.  The examination 
is a predominantly written process led either by a single appointed person or a 
panel, who will, within three months of the end of the examination, submit a report 
with their recommendation on the Application to the relevant SoS.  The SoS will 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 2: REGULATORY AND POLICY BACKGROUND 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
2-5 
 
then have three months from the receipt of the PINS' report to make a decision on 
the DCO Application pursuant to the regime established by the PA 2008.  The 
relevant SoS for the Project is the Secretary of State for Business, Energy & 
Industrial Strategy (BEIS). 
2.3.4 
Section 104 of the PA 2008 requires the SoS to a make a decision on an 
application in accordance with relevant NPSs.  The relevant NPSs  to the Project 
are discussed in section 2.6 below. 
2.4 
Wales Act 2017 
2.4.1 
As part of a wider devolution of powers, the Wales Act 2017 (“WA 2017”) (Ref. 2.9) 
will transfer decision-making powers to the Welsh Government in relation to 
electricity generating stations up to a capacity of 350MW.  
2.4.2 
The effect of the WA 2017 will be to devolve the SoS's power under the PA 2008 to 
grant development consent for all electricity generating stations in Wales insofar as 
such projects (not including wind powered generating stations) do not exceed a 
capacity of 350MW, to the Welsh Ministers.  However, these provisions have not 
yet come into force and as yet the date on which they will do is not known.  It is 
likely that consultation by the Welsh Government will be required before they can 
be brought into force.  
2.4.3 
Accordingly, the consenting regime for the Power Generation Plant remains the PA 
2008.  
2.5 
Infrastructure Planning (Environmental Impact Assessment) Regulations 
2009 and Infrastructure Planning (Applications: Prescribed Forms and 
Procedure) Regulations 2009 
2.5.1 
The  EIA Regulations (Ref 2.10) require an EIA to be carried out in respect of 
development that is classed as EIA development. All development in Schedule 1 to 
the EIA Regulations (“Schedule 1 development”) requires EIA. Development in 
Schedule 2 to the EIA Regulations (“Schedule 2 development”) requires EIA if it is 
likely to have significant effects on the environment. 
2.5.2 
The Project has been identified as a Schedule 1 development and therefore the 
Applicant intends to carry out an EIA for the Project in accordance with the EIA 
Regulations. 
2.5.3 
Regulation 5(2)(a) of the Infrastructure Planning (Applications: Prescribed Forms 
and Procedure) Regulations 2009 (the “APFP Regulations”) (Ref. 2.11) requires 
that any ES required pursuant to the EIA Regulations, together with any scoping or 
screening opinions or directions, must accompany the application for development 
consent. 
2.5.4 
This document presents the environmental information and an assessment, on a 
preliminary basis, of the likely significant environmental effects of the Project.  
Consultation feedback received will further inform and refine the EIA process as 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 2: REGULATORY AND POLICY BACKGROUND 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
2-6 
 
well as the design and development of the Project, prior to preparation of an ES to 
accompany the DCO Application. 
2.6 
The Well-being of Future Generations (Wales) Act 2015 
2.6.1 
The Well-being of Future Generations (Wales) Act 2015 (Ref 2.12) seeks to 
improve the social, economic, environmental and cultural well-being of Wales by 
undertaking actions in accordance with the “sustainable development principle” 
(section 5) to achieve the well-being goals (section 4).   
2.6.2 
The “sustainable development principle” requires a public body to “act in a manner 
which seeks to ensure that the needs of the present are met without compromising 
the ability of future generations to meet their own needs” (section 5 (1)), thereby 
taking into account (section 5 (2)): 
 
Balancing short term needs with safeguarding long term needs; 
 
Taking an integrated approach considering well-being objectives; 
 
Involving other persons with an interest and reflecting the diversity of the 
population; 
 
Acting in collaboration with other persons to meet well-being objectives; and 
 
Deploying resources to prevent or reduce problems which contribute to well-
being objectives. 
2.6.3 
The well-being goals, comprise the following (Table 1): 
 
“A prosperous Wales;” 
 
“A resilient Wales;” 
 
“A healthier Wales;” 
 
“A more equal Wales;” 
 
“A Wales of cohesive communities;” 
 
“A Wales of vibrant culture and thriving Welsh language;” and 
 
“A globally responsible Wales.” 
2.6.4 
The Wellbeing of Future Generations (Wales) Act is not binding on the Examining 
Authority (ExA) or SoS.  However, it sets out sustainable development principles 
and well-being goals which are applicable to public bodies involved in the planning 
system in Wales.  It is therefore relevant to the examination of the DCO Application. 
2.7 
National Policy Statements 
2.7.1 
The Department for Energy and Climate Change (DECC) published 6 NPS for 
Energy in 2011.  The NPS which are relevant to the consideration of the DCO 
application for the Power Generating Plant are: 
 
Overarching National Policy Statement for Energy (EN-1) (Ref. 2.13); 
 
National Policy Statement for Fossil Fuel Electricity Generating Infrastructure 
(EN-2) (Ref. 2.14); 
 
National Policy Statement for Gas Supply Infrastructure and Gas and Oil 
Pipelines (EN-4) (Ref. 2.15); and 
 
National Policy Statement for Electricity Networks Infrastructure (EN-5) (Ref. 
2.16). 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 2: REGULATORY AND POLICY BACKGROUND 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
2-7 
 
2.7.2 
Section 104 of the PA 2008 provides that in making decisions on applications for 
development consent, the SoS must have regard (amongst certain other 
documents and matters) to any relevant NPS to which the application relates and 
must decide applications in accordance with such relevant NPS(s) unless the 
adverse impacts of the proposal would outweigh its benefits (or in certain other 
limited circumstances defined in s104, subsections (4) to (8) of the PA 2008).  
2.7.3 
NPS EN-1 is a relevant NPS for any energy NSIP, along with the relevant 
technology specific NPS.  For the DCO Application this includes NPS EN-2 
National Policy Statement for Fossil Fuel Electricity Generating Infrastructure.  NPS 
EN-4 National Policy Statement for Gas Supply Infrastructure does not directly 
relate to the Power Generation Plant, since development consent is not proposed 
to be sought in the DCO for the Gas Connection, however regard has been had to 
the NPS and the relevant parts are discussed below. NPS EN-5 does not directly 
relate to the Power Generation Plant, since development consent is not sought in 
the DCO for the Electrical Connection, and the design of the  Electrical Connection 
is predominantly underground., however regard has been had to the NPS and the 
relevant parts are discussed below. 
a) Overarching National Policy Statement for Energy (NPS EN-1) 
2.7.4 
NPS EN-1 (Ref. 2.13) sets out the Government’s overall policy towards the delivery 
of major energy infrastructure. 
2.7.5 
Paragraph 1.1.1 of NPS EN-1 states that “…this NPS, when combined with the 
relevant technology-specific energy NPS, provides the primary basis for 
decisions…”.  The relevant technology-specific energy NPS for this Application is 
NPS EN-2.  NPS EN-4 and NPS EN-5 do not directly apply as development 
consent is not proposed to be sought for the Electricity Connection and Gas 
Connection, but regard has been had to relevant content in the NPS and they are 
discussed below.  In addition, Paragraph 4.1.5 of NPS EN-1 states that 
Development Plan Documents or other documents in the Local Development 
Framework may be both important and relevant considerations to SoS decision-
making.  Local planning policy for City & County of Swansea (CCS) relevant to this 
Application is also set out below. 
2.7.6 
Paragraph 3.1.3 of NPS EN-1 states that all development consent applications for 
energy infrastructure should be assessed “on the basis that the Government has 
demonstrated that there is a need for those types of infrastructure and that the 
scale and urgency of that need is as described for each of them in this Part.”  
Accordingly, the SoS “should give substantial weight to the contribution which 
projects would make towards satisfying this need when considering applications for 
development consent under the Planning Act 2008” (paragraph 3.1.4). 
2.7.7 
Section 3.3 of NPS EN-1 sets out the key reasons why the Government believes 
there is an “urgent need” for new electricity NSIPs (paragraph 3.3.1), including: 
 
“Meeting energy security and carbon reduction objectives;” 
 
“The need to replace closing electricity generating capacity;” 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 2: REGULATORY AND POLICY BACKGROUND 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
2-8 
 
 
“The need for more electricity capacity to support an increased supply from 
renewables;” and 
 
“Future increases in electricity demand.” 
2.7.8 
Furthermore, paragraph 3.7.3 of NPS EN-1 stresses that new electricity network 
infrastructure projects add to the “reliability of the national energy supply” and 
provide “crucial national benefits” which are shared by all users of the system. 
2.7.9 
Whilst alternatives to the need for new large scale electricity infrastructure have 
been considered – including: reducing demand; more intelligent use of electricity; 
and interconnection of electricity systems – the Government believes that these 
measures will not be sufficient to meet energy and climate change objectives on 
their own (paragraph 3.3.25 of NPS EN-1).   
2.7.10 Paragraph 3.6.1 of NPS EN-1 recognises the “vital role” that fossil fuel power 
stations play in providing electricity supplies, and states that “they will continue to 
play an important role in our energy mix as the UK makes the transition to a low 
carbon economy.” 
2.7.11 Section 4 of NPS EN-1 sets out the general assessment principles by which 
applications relating to energy infrastructure are to be decided.  
2.7.12 Paragraph 4.1.2 of NPS EN-1 states that, given the level and urgency of need for 
energy infrastructure, the SoS “should start with a presumption in favour of granting 
consent to applications for energy NSIPs.”  
2.7.13  Paragraph 4.1.3 of NPS EN-1 explains that the SoS will weigh up a proposal’s 
contribution to meeting the need for energy infrastructure, job creation and other 
long term and wider benefits, against the potential adverse impacts of the proposal 
in question including, “any long-term and cumulative adverse impacts, as well as 
any measures to avoid, reduce or compensate for any adverse impacts.” 
2.7.14 Paragraph 4.1.4 of NPS EN-1 continues and explains that the SoS should take into 
account “environmental, social and economic benefits and adverse impacts, at 
national, regional and local levels” whether identified in the NPSs or elsewhere, 
including in local impact reports.   
2.7.15 In addition, Paragraph 4.1.5 of NPS EN-1 states that other matters that the SoS 
may consider both “important and relevant to its decision-making” could include 
Development Plan Documents or other documents in the Local Development 
Framework and explains that “in the event of a conflict between these or any other 
documents and an NPS, the NPS prevails.”  The documents included within the 
Local Development Framework for CCS are referenced below at section 2.9. 
2.7.16 Paragraph 4.1.7 of NPS EN-1 confirms that the SoS will have regard to the 
guidance in Circular 11/95, as revised, on “The Use of Conditions in Planning 
Permissions” in agreeing or suggesting requirements in a DCO.  Although that 
Circular has in part been superseded by advice contained within NPPG (published 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 2: REGULATORY AND POLICY BACKGROUND 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
2-9 
 
in March 2014), the Applicant notes that the general advice remains essentially 
similar.  
2.7.17 Paragraph 4.1.8 states that “The [SoS] may take into account any development 
consent obligations that an applicant agrees with local authorities.”   
2.7.18 Paragraph 4.1.9 of NPS EN-1 states that viability issues are unlikely to be of 
relevance to decision making providing that the technical feasibility of the proposal 
has been properly assessed, but limited exceptions exist and are set out in NPS 
EN-1 and others. 
2.7.19 Paragraph 4.2.1 of NPS EN-1 advises that, “All proposals for projects that are 
subject to the European Environmental Impact Assessment Directive must be 
accompanied by an ES describing the aspects of the environment likely to be 
significantly affected by the project.” The Environmental Statement (ES) should 
include an assessment of the likely significant effects of the proposed project on the 
environment, including direct, indirect, secondary, cumulative, short, medium and 
long-term, permanent and temporary, positive and negative effects at all stages of 
the project.  Paragraph 4.2.3 of NPS EN-1 adds that “the ES should cover the 
environmental, social and economic effects arising from pre-construction, 
construction, operation and decommissioning of the project.”  When considering 
cumulative effects, Paragraph 4.2.5 of NPS EN-1 advises that the ES should 
provide information on how the effects of the proposal combine and interact with 
the effects of other development, including projects for which consent is sought or 
granted, as well as those already in existence.  
2.7.20 Paragraph 4.3.1 of NPS EN-1 advises applicants to consult with the Countryside 
Council for Wales (CCW) (now Natural Resources Wales (NRW)), in respect of 
Habitats and Species Regulations, and to subsequently undertake an Appropriate 
Assessment if required.   
2.7.21 Paragraph 4.4.1 of NPS EN-1 notes that “the relevance or otherwise to the 
decision-making process of the existence (or alleged existence) of alternatives to 
the proposed development is in the first instance a matter of law, detailed guidance 
on which falls outside the scope of this NPS.  From a policy perspective NPS EN-1 
does not contain any general requirement to consider alternatives or to establish 
whether the proposed project represents the best option.”  However, paragraph 
4.4.2 of NPS EN-1 states that applicants are obliged to include, as a matter of fact, 
information about the main alternatives that have been considered within the ES, 
including the main reasons for the applicant’s choice, taking into account the 
environmental, social and economic effects.   
2.7.22 Paragraph 4.5.1 of NPS EN-1 states that good design for energy infrastructure 
“should produce sustainable infrastructure sensitive to place, efficient in the use of 
natural resources and energy used in their construction and operation, matched by 
an appearance that demonstrates good aesthetic as far as possible.” However, 
paragraph 4.5.1 also acknowledges that “the nature of much energy infrastructure 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 2: REGULATORY AND POLICY BACKGROUND 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
2-10 
 
development will often limit the extent to which it can contribute to the 
enhancement of the quality of the area.”  
2.7.23 Paragraph 4.5.3 of NPS EN-1 seeks that proposals are “sustainable and, having 
regard to regulatory and other constraints, are as attractive, durable and adaptable 
(including taking account of natural hazards such as flooding) as they can be.”   
Further, Paragraph 4.5.3 states that “Whilst the applicant may not have any or very 
limited choice in the physical appearance of some energy infrastructure, there may 
be opportunities for the applicant to demonstrate good design in terms of siting 
relative to existing landscape character, landform and vegetation.”  
2.7.24 Paragraph 4.5.4 of NPS EN-1 seeks that applicants “demonstrate in their 
application documents how the design process was conducted and how the 
proposed design evolved. Where a number of different designs were considered, 
applicants should set out the reasons why the favoured choice has been selected.”  
Further, paragraph 4.5.4 of NPS EN-1 notes that “in considering applications the 
[SoS] should take into account the ultimate purpose of the infrastructure and bear 
in mind the operational, safety and security requirements which the design has to 
satisfy.” 
2.7.25 Paragraph 4.5.5 of NPS EN-1 states that “applicants are encouraged” to use 
design review services. 
2.7.26 Paragraph 4.6.6 of NPS EN-1 states that, ”Under guidelines issued by DECC (then 
DTI) in 2006, any application to develop a thermal generating station under Section 
36 of the Electricity Act 1989 must either include CHP [Combined Heat and Power] 
or contain evidence that the possibilities for CHP have been fully explored to inform 
the IPC’s consideration of the application.”  Further, paragraph 4.6.7 of NPS EN-1 
advises that the opportunities for CHP should be considered from the outset of the 
site selection process.  
2.7.27 Section 4.7 of NPS EN-1 explains the considerations to be given to Carbon 
Capture and Storage  and Carbon Capture and explains that all applications for 
new combustion plant which are of a generating capacity at or over 300MW and of 
a type covered by the EU’s Large Combustion Plant Directive (LCPD) should 
demonstrate that the plant is “Carbon Capture Ready” (CCR).  
2.7.28 Section 4.8 of EN-1 sets out considerations that applicants and the ExA/SoS 
should take into account to help ensure that new energy infrastructure is resilient to 
climate change.  Paragraph 4.8.5 of NPS EN-1 advises that applicants ”must 
consider the impacts of climate change when planning the location, design, build, 
operation and, where appropriate, decommissioning of new energy infrastructure.”   
2.7.29 Paragraph 4.9.1 of NPS EN-1 advises applicants to consult the National Grid and 
to ensure that there is the necessary infrastructure and capacity within an existing 
or planned transmission or distribution network to accommodate the electricity 
generated.   
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 2: REGULATORY AND POLICY BACKGROUND 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
2-11 
 
2.7.30 Paragraph 4.10.1 of NPS EN-1 advises that “Issues relating to discharges or 
emissions from a proposed project which affect air quality, water quality, land 
quality and the marine environment, or which include noise and vibration may be 
subject to separate regulation under the pollution control framework or other 
consenting and licensing regimes.”     
2.7.31 Paragraph 4.11.1 of NPS EN-1 advises applicants to consult with the Health and 
Safety Executive (HSE) on “matters relating to safety” which are “relevant to the 
construction, operation and decommissioning of energy infrastructure”.  
2.7.32 Paragraph 4.12.1 of NPS EN-1 explains that all establishments wishing to hold 
stock of hazardous substances above a threshold will require Hazardous 
Substances consent, and thus should consult the HSE at the pre-application stage.  
2.7.33 Section 4.13 of NPS EN-1 advises that energy production has the “potential to 
impact on health and wellbeing” (paragraph 4.13.1), through “increased traffic, air 
or water pollution, dust, odour, hazardous waste and substances, noise, exposure 
to radiation and increases in pests” (paragraph 4.13.3).  Accordingly, the ES should 
assess these effects and identify any “measures to avoid, reduce or compensate 
for these impacts as appropriate” (paragraph 4.13.2).   
2.7.34 Paragraph 4.14.2 of NPS EN-1 stresses the importance of considering possible 
sources of nuisance and how they may be mitigated or limited at the pre-application 
stage under section 79(1) of the Environmental Protection Act 1990.  
2.7.35 Paragraph 4.15.2 of NPS EN-1 outlines that “Government policy is to ensure that, 
where possible, proportionate protective security measures are designed into new 
infrastructure projects at an early stage in the project development.”  
2.7.36 Part 5 of NPS EN-1 explains the potential impacts of energy infrastructure, in terms 
of: “air quality and emissions”; “biodiversity and ecological conservation”; “civil and 
military aviation and defence interests”; “coastal change”; “dust, odour, artificial 
light, smoke, steam and insect infestation”; “flood risk”; “historic environment”; 
“landscape and visual”; “land use including open space, green infrastructure and 
Green Belt”; “noise and vibration”; “socio-economic”; “traffic and transport”; “waste 
management”; and “water quality and resources”. 
2.7.37 Paragraph 5.2.1 of NPS EN-1 advises that the construction, operation and 
decommissioning of infrastructure development “can involve emissions to air which 
could lead to adverse impacts on health, on protected species and habitats, or on 
the wider countryside.”  Paragraph 5.2.7 of NPS EN-1 provides that the applicant 
should undertake an assessment as part of the ES, describing:  
 
“Any significant air emissions, their mitigation and any residual effects 
distinguishing between the project stages and taking account of any significant 
emissions from any road traffic generated by the project; 
 
The predicted absolute emission levels of the proposed project, after mitigation 
methods have been applied; 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 2: REGULATORY AND POLICY BACKGROUND 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
2-12 
 
 
Existing air quality levels and the relative change in air quality from existing 
levels; and 
 
Any potential eutrophication impacts.” 
2.7.38 With regard to biodiversity and geological conservation for EIA development, 
paragraph 5.3.3 of NPS EN-1 advises that the ES “clearly sets out any effects on 
internationally, nationally and locally designated sites of ecological or geological 
conservation importance, on protected species and on habitats and other species 
identified as being of principal importance for the conservation of biodiversity.”  
Appropriate mitigation measures should be “an integral part of the proposed 
development” and should demonstrate that: activities are confined to the minimum 
areas required during construction; best practice is followed during construction 
and operation; habitats are restored after construction works where practicable; 
and opportunities are taken to enhance or create new habitats (paragraph 5.3.18).  
2.7.39 Paragraph 5.4.1 of NPS EN-1 advises that civil and military aviation and defence 
interests can be affected by new energy development, and as such an assessment 
of potential effects should be set out within the ES (paragraph 5.4.10).  In addition, 
the Ministry of Defence (MoD), Civil Aviation Authority (CAA), National Air Traffic 
Services (NATS) and any aerodrome likely to be affected by the proposed 
development should be consulted (paragraph 5.4.11).  
2.7.40 Paragraph 5.6.1 of NPS EN-1 states that “during the construction, operation and 
decommissioning of energy infrastructure there is potential for the release of a 
range of emissions such as odour, dust, steam, smoke, artificial light and infestation 
of insects.”  Accordingly, applicants are required to assess the potential for 
emissions and the impact on amenity in the ES, in particular: the type, quantity and 
timing of emissions; aspects giving rise to emissions; locations affected by the 
emissions; effects of the emissions on identified locations; and measures to be 
employed in preventing or mitigating emissions (paragraph 5.6.5).  Paragraph 
5.6.11 advises that mitigation measures may be provided in respect of engineering, 
lay-out or administration.  
2.7.41 Paragraph 5.7.4 of NPS EN-1 states that application for energy projects of 1 ha or 
greater in Flood Zone 1 and all energy projects in Flood Zones 2 and 3 should be 
accompanied by a flood risk assessment (FRA).  Where necessary, paragraph 
5.7.18 of NPS EN-1 advises that flood risk should be mitigated by making 
arrangements to manage surface water and the impact of the natural water cycle 
on people and property.  
2.7.42 Paragraph 5.8.1 of NPS EN-1 advises that the construction, operation and 
decommissioning of energy infrastructure has the potential to result in adverse 
impacts on the historic environment.  Accordingly, the applicant is required to 
“provide a description of the significance of the heritage assets affected by the 
proposed development and the contribution of their setting to that significance” 
(paragraph 5.8.8).  
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 2: REGULATORY AND POLICY BACKGROUND 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
2-13 
 
2.7.43 Paragraph 5.9.1 of NPS EN-1 acknowledges that the landscape and visual effects 
of energy projects will vary according to “the type of development, its location and 
the landscape setting”.  Paragraphs 5.9.5 – 5.9.7 advise that the applicant should 
carry out a landscape and visual impact assessment of the effects during 
construction and operation, including light pollution effects on local amenity and 
nature conservation.  Paragraph 5.9.21 notes that reducing the scale of the project 
can help to mitigate the landscape and visual impacts, however it is acknowledged 
that amending the design of proposed energy infrastructure may result in a 
significant operational constraint and reduction in function.   
2.7.44 Paragraph 5.10.1 of NPS EN-1 acknowledges that an energy infrastructure project 
“will have direct effects on the existing use of the proposed site and may have 
indirect effects on the use, or planned use, of land in the vicinity for other types of 
development.”  Accordingly, the applicants should consult the local community 
(paragraph 5.10.6) and the ES should include an assessment of the impact of the 
proposed development on existing and proposed land uses near the project.  
Paragraph 5.10.19 notes that “there may be little that can be done to mitigate the 
direct effects” of the energy project on the existing use of the proposed site; 
however, the effects may be minimised through the “application of good design 
principles, including the layout of the project.”  
2.7.45 Paragraph 5.11.1 of NPS EN-1 states that excessive noise can have wide-ranging 
impacts on the quality of human life, health, and use and enjoyment of areas, as 
well as on wildlife and biodiversity (paragraph 5.11.2).  Where noise impacts arise, 
paragraph 5.11.4 states that a noise assessment should be provided, to include: a 
description of the noise generating aspects of the proposal, identification of noise 
sensitive areas, the characteristics of the existing noise environment, and a 
prediction of how the noise environment will change.  Mitigation measures may 
include engineering, layout design, or administrative measures (paragraph 
5.11.12).  
2.7.46 Paragraph 5.12.1 of NPS EN-1 states that “The construction, operation and 
decommissioning of energy infrastructure may have socio-economic impacts at 
local and regional levels.”  Accordingly, an assessment should be undertaken of all 
relevant socio-economic impacts, which may include: the creation of jobs and 
training opportunities, the provision of additional local services and improvements 
to local infrastructure, effects on tourism, the impact of a changing influx of workers 
during different phases of the project, and cumulative effects (paragraph 5.12.3).  
Mitigation measures could include improvements to the visual and environmental 
experience for visitors and the local community through high quality design 
(paragraph 5.12.9).  
2.7.47 Paragraph 5.13.1 of NPS EN-1 notes that ”The transport of materials, goods and 
personnel to and from a development during all project phases can have a variety 
of impacts on the surrounding transport infrastructure and potentially on connecting 
transport networks.”  The applicant should therefore undertake a transport 
assessment and consult with the Highways Agency and Highways Authority 
regarding appropriate mitigation (paragraph 5.13.3).   
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 2: REGULATORY AND POLICY BACKGROUND 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
2-14 
 
2.7.48 Paragraph 5.14.1 of NPS EN-1 outlines that government policy on hazardous and 
non-hazardous waste is intended to “protect human health and the environment by 
producing less waste and by using it as a resource wherever possible.”  Paragraph 
5.14.6 states that the applicant should set out the arrangements proposed for 
managing waste and include information on the proposed waste recovery and 
disposal system.   
2.7.49 Paragraph 5.15.1 of NPS EN-1 advises that infrastructure development can have 
adverse effects during the construction, operation and decommissioning phases on 
the water environment, including groundwater, inland surface water, transitional 
waters and coastal waters.  Accordingly, the applicant should undertake an 
assessment of “the existing status of, and impacts of the proposed project on, 
water quality, water resources and physical characteristics of the water 
environment as part of the ES” (paragraph 5.15.2).  Paragraphs 5.15.9 and 5.15.10 
advise that the impacts on the water environment and local water resources can be 
mitigated through careful design.   
b) National Policy Statement for Fossil fuel Electricity Generating Infrastructure 
(NPS EN-2) 
2.7.50 NPS EN-2 (Ref. 2.14) outlines considerations and factors relating to site selection 
and design for developers for fossil fuel generating stations. NPS EN-2 also sets 
out a number of specific impacts that could arise from a fossil fuel generating NSIP 
and criteria by which they should be assessed.  
2.7.51 Paragraph 1.1.1 of NPS EN-2 states “Fossil fuel generating stations play a vital role 
in providing reliable electricity supplies and a secure and diverse energy mix as the 
UK makes the transition to a low carbon economy…” 
2.7.52 Paragraph 1.2.1 of NPS EN-2 states that, NPS EN-2, together with NPS EN-1, 
provides the primary basis for decisions by the SoS on applications for nationally 
significant fossil fuel electricity generating stations. 
2.7.53 Part 2 of NPS EN-2 provides additional guidance to Part 4 and Part 5 of EN-1 
regarding the assessment of impacts specifically associated with fossil fuel 
generating stations.   
2.7.54 Paragraph 2.2.1 of NPS EN-2, "it is for energy companies to decide which 
applications to bring forward and the government does not seek to direct applicants 
to particular sites for fossil fuel generating stations." 
2.7.55 NPS EN-2 notes that “Fossil fuel generating stations have large land footprints and 
will therefore only be possible where the applicant is able to acquire a suitably-
sized site” (NPS EN-2, paragraph 2.2.2). It also notes that “Applicants should locate 
new fossil fuel generating stations in the vicinity of existing transport routes 
wherever possible.”   
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 2: REGULATORY AND POLICY BACKGROUND 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
2-15 
 
2.7.56 Section 2.3 of NPS EN-2 states that government policy criteria for fossil fuel 
generation stations relating to – CHP, CCR, Carbon Capture and Storage, climate 
change adaptation, and “good design” – must be met before consent is given. 
2.7.57 Section 2.3.13 of NPS EN-2 sets out considerations specifically for fossil fuel 
generating stations in respect of climate change. NPS EN-2 suggests that as fossil 
fuel generating stations are likely to be proposed for coastal or estuarine sites, 
applicants should set out how the proposal would be resilient to: “coastal changes 
and increased risk from storm surge; effects of higher temperatures, including 
higher temperatures of cooling water; and increased risk of drought leading to a 
lack of available cooling water” (paragraph 2.3.13).  
2.7.58 Paragraph 2.3.16 of NPS EN-2 states that, “Applicants should demonstrate good 
design particularly in respect of landscape and visual amenity ...and in the design 
of the project to mitigate impacts such as noise and vibration, transport impacts and 
air emissions.” 
2.7.59 Section 2.4 of NPS EN-2 contains additional policy for assessing the potential 
impacts of energy infrastructure projects for fossil fuel generating stations, relating 
to: “air emissions; landscape and visual; noise and vibration; release of dust by 
coal-fired generating stations; residue management for coal-fired generating 
stations; and water quality and resources” (paragraph 2.4.1). 
2.7.60 Paragraph 2.5.2 of NPS EN-2 acknowledges that CO2 emissions are a “significant 
adverse impact of fossil fuel generating stations”.  As such, paragraph 2.5.5 of EN-
2 states that an assessment should be carried out at the initial stages of developing 
proposals, and Paragraph 2.5.8 of EN-2 states that the SoS and NRW (the relevant 
authority in Wales) should be satisfied that the potential adverse impacts of 
mitigation measures are assessed.   
2.7.61 Paragraph 2.6.2 of NPS EN-2 advises that the main structures of a fossil fuel 
generating station – including the turbine and boiler halls, exhaust gas stacks, 
storage facilities, cooling towers, and water processing plant – are large and likely 
to “have an impact on the surrounding landscape and visual amenity”.  A landscape 
and visual impact assessment should therefore be included as part of the ES, and 
consideration should be given to the design of the plant, the materials to be used, 
and the visual impact of the stack (paragraphs 2.6.3 and 2.6.4).  Paragraph 2.6.5 of 
EN-2 states that mitigation is to “minimise impact on visual amenity as far as 
reasonably practicable”; however, the visibility of a fossil fuel generating station 
should be given limited weight if the SoS is satisfied that the location is appropriate 
for the project and that it has been designed sensitively (paragraph 2.6.10).  
2.7.62 Paragraph 2.7.1 of NPS EN-2 advises that the sources of noise and vibration from 
fossil fuel generating stations may include the gas and steam turbines and external 
noise sources such as externally-sited air-cooled condensers.  Paragraph 2.7.2 of 
EN-2 states that the ES should include a noise assessment, and paragraph 2.7.5 of 
NPS EN-2 states that mitigation should be achieved through “good design”, 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 2: REGULATORY AND POLICY BACKGROUND 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
2-16 
 
including enclosure of plant and machinery in noise-reducing buildings where 
possible.  
2.7.63 Paragraph 2.10.1 of NPS EN-2 advises that water cooling systems for fossil fuel 
generating stations may have additional impacts on water quality, abstraction and 
discharge.  Where the project is likely to have an effect on water quality and 
resources, Paragraph 2.10.2 of EN-2 states that an assessment should be 
undertaken to “demonstrate that appropriate measures will be put in place to avoid 
or minimise adverse impacts of abstraction and discharge of cooling water.”  
c) National Policy Statement for Gas Supply Infrastructure and Gas and Oil 
Pipelines (EN-4) 
2.7.64 NPS EN-4 (Ref. 2.15), together with NPS EN-1, provides the primary basis for 
decisions by the SoS on applications for gas supply infrastructure and gas and oil 
pipelines (Paragraph 1.2.1).  However, the proposed DCO application will not 
include Gas Connection apparatus for the Project, so the decision making policies 
in NPS EN-4 will not be directly applicable.  However, section 2.19 addresses gas 
and oil pipelines and identifies factors that should influence site selection by project 
promoters.  These include noise and vibration, biodiversity, landscape and visual 
effects, soil and geology and effects on water quality and resources.   
2.7.65 Chapter 5: Alternatives Considered of this PEIR includes a description of 
alternatives considered and route selection for the Gas Connection route.  The 
environmental effects of the Gas Connection are considered within each topic-
specific chapter in this PEIR.  Accordingly, NPS EN-4 will be of relevance as a 
matter that the SoS may consider important and relevant in the context of the 
routing of the Gas Connection and powers of compulsory acquisition sought, rather 
than being directly applicable to the Power Generation Plant itself.   
2.7.66 Relevant guidance on the assessment of impacts of gas supply infrastructure is 
summarised below, and regard has been had to this guidance in preparation of this 
PEIR. 
2.7.67 Part 2 of NPS EN-4 provides additional guidance to Part 4 and Part 5 of EN-1 
regarding the assessment of impacts specific to gas supply infrastructure and oil 
and gas pipelines. 
2.7.68 Sections 2.20 – 2.23 of NPS EN-4 set out additional policy for assessing the 
potential impacts of gas and oil pipelines, relating to: noise and vibration; 
biodiversity, landscape and visual; water quality and resources; and soil and 
geology. 
2.7.69 Paragraph 2.20.2 of NPS EN-4 states that there are specific noise and vibration 
impacts which apply to gas pipelines, including: “During the pre-construction phase 
there could be vibration effects from seismic surveys. During construction, tasks 
may include site clearance, soil movement, ground excavation, tunnelling, 
trenching, pipe laying and welding, and ground reinstatement. In addition, 
increased HGV traffic will be generated on local roads for the movement of 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 2: REGULATORY AND POLICY BACKGROUND 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
2-17 
 
materials.”  The ES should include an assessment of all of the above noise and 
vibration effects during the pre-construction and construction phases (paragraph 
2.20.5).  
2.7.70 Paragraph 2.21.1 of NPS EN-4 states that the construction of a pipeline can impact 
upon “specific landscape elements within and adjacent to the pipeline route, such 
as grasslands, field boundaries (hedgerows, hedgebanks, drystone walls, fences), 
trees, woodlands, and watercourses.”  Accordingly, the ES should include “an 
assessment of the biodiversity and landscape and visual effects of the proposed 
route and of the main alternative routes considered” (paragraph 2.21.3 of EN4).  
Where it is not possible to restore the landscape to its original state, Paragraph 
2.21.3 of EN-4 also states that “the applicant should set out measures to avoid, 
mitigate, or employ other landscape measures to compensate for, any adverse 
effect on the landscape.”  
2.7.71 Paragraph 2.22.2 of NPS EN-4 advises that “constructing pipelines creates 
corridors of surface clearance and excavation that can potentially affect 
watercourses, aquifers, water abstraction and discharge points, areas prone to 
flooding and ecological receptors.”  As such, an assessment should be provided in 
the ES “where the project is likely to have effects on water resources or water 
quality,” for example through impacts on: “groundwater recharge or on existing 
surface water or ground abstraction points; associated ecological receptors,” or 
through: “siltation or spillages, discharges from maintenance activities or the 
discharge of disposals such as wastewater or solvents” (paragraphs 2.22.3 and 
2.22.4).  
2.7.72 Paragraph 2.23.1 of NPS EN-4 states that “it will be important for applicants to 
understand the soil types and the nature of the underlying strata.”  Accordingly, 
applicants should consult with the relevant statutory consultees at an early stage 
regarding the potential impact of gas pipelines on soil and geology (paragraph 
2.23.4).  Paragraph 2.23.2 states that applicants should assess the stability of the 
ground conditions associated with the pipeline route, including considering the 
options for installing the pipeline.  
d) National Policy Statement for Electricity Networks Infrastructure  (EN-5) 
2.7.73 NPS EN-5 (Ref. 2.16), together with NPS EN-1, provides the primary basis for 
decisions by the SoS on applications for electricity networks infrastructure.  
However, the proposed DCO application will not include Electrical Connection 
apparatus for the Project, and the connection will be by underground cable, so the 
decision making policies in NPS EN-5 will not be directly applicable.  Relevant 
guidance on the assessment of impacts underground electrical connections is 
summarised below, and regard has been had to this guidance in preparation of this 
PEIR. 
2.7.74 Part 2 of NPS EN-5 provides additional guidance to Part 4 and Part 5 of EN-1 
regarding the assessment of impacts specific to electricity networks infrastructure 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 2: REGULATORY AND POLICY BACKGROUND 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
2-18 
 
2.7.75 Paragraph 2.8.9 of NPS EN-5 notes, “The impacts and costs of both overhead and 
underground options vary considerably between individual projects (both in 
absolute and relative terms). Therefore, each project should be assessed 
individually on the basis of its specific circumstances and taking account of the fact 
that Government has not laid down any general rule about when an overhead line 
should be considered unacceptable.” 
2.7.76 Paragraph 2.10.1 of NPS EN-5 advises that “power frequency Electric and 
Magnetic Fields (EMFs) arise from generation, transmission, distribution and use of 
electricity and will occur around power lines and electric cables...”  Paragraph 
2.10.15 of EN-5 states that in order to mitigate for EMFs, the applicant should 
consider: height, position, insulation and protection measures; optimal phasing of 
high voltage overhead power lines where possible and practicable; and any new 
Government advice. 
2.8 
Other Government Policy 
2.8.1 
The NPSs have been informed by and followed by other government policy and 
evidence as to the need for viable proposals to contribute towards greater reliability 
of electricity supply in the UK.  
2.8.2 
To ensure that there is reliability of supply, it is Government policy that the 
electricity generation mix needs to incorporate a balance of technologies that 
continuously and reliably produce stable and controllable power and that within this 
scenario, gas-fuelled electricity generating technologies can play a significant role.  
In the Annual Energy Statement (AES) (latest version published October 2014) 
(Ref. 2.17), DECC (now BEIS) supported the role of gas in the energy sector and 
directed the need to build new power generation infrastructure.  
2.8.3 
The AES identifies the need to retain sufficient power generation capacity following 
the rapid closure of existing capacity, and acknowledges the role of gas in the 
energy sector.  The Statement also sets out the Government’s long-term direction 
for reducing energy demand and safeguarding energy security, by increasing the 
proportion of energy from renewable and low carbon sources. 
2.8.4 
The Welsh Government policy statement,  “A Low Carbon Revolution: Wales’ 
Energy Policy Statement, March 2010” (Ref. 2.18), reflects, in terms of energy 
production, the work of the UK Climate Change Commission and the UK National 
Policy Statements on Energy and Renewables. The statement sets out a 
framework for carbon reduction in Wales, provides targets and advice to local 
planning authorities (LPAs) for implementation of policy into Local Development 
Plans (LDPs). In particular it aims to maximise energy savings and energy 
efficiency to make producing the majority of the energy that Wales needs from low 
carbon sources that are feasible and less costly. The statement recognises energy 
needs in a modern society will remain considerable. 
2.8.5 
The “Electricity Market Reform White Paper – Planning our electric future: a White 
Paper for secure, affordable and low-carbon electricity” (DECC, 2011) (Ref. 2.19) 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 2: REGULATORY AND POLICY BACKGROUND 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
2-19 
 
“sets out the Government’s commitment to transform the UK’s electricity system to 
ensure that our future electricity supply is secure, low-carbon and affordable.” A key 
part of this wide ranging reform is the introduction of a “Capacity Mechanism” in 
order “to guarantee future security of electricity supply as a quarter of ageing plant 
closes during this decade and the proportion of intermittent or less flexible low-
carbon generation rises” (paragraph 1.35).   
2.8.6 
The White Paper sets out, at page 24, a vision for the Electricity System following 
reform, in which it is stated “The electricity grid has evolved to accommodate more 
localised and intermittent sources of generation, as well as being smarter and more 
responsive.” A significant focus of the White Paper is to decarbonise electricity 
generation in the long term, although it is acknowledged at paragraph 2.4.23 that 
“we are going to need new, unabated gas in the next few years.”  
2.8.7 
“The Carbon Plan - delivering our low carbon future” (HM Government, 2011) (Ref. 
2.20) sets out the Coalition Government’s policies for how the UK will achieve 
decarbonisation within the framework of its energy policy; making the transition to 
low carbon economy while maintaining energy security, and minimising costs to 
customers. Paragraph 2.146 of the Plan recognises that the nature of the electricity 
network will need to change so that it becomes smarter at balancing demand and 
supply as generation/supply become more intermittent and demand increases. In 
light of this the Plan states that on the way to 2050, some flexible fossil fuel plant is 
likely to be needed to ensure security of supply. Paragraph 2.147 states that over 
the next decade, the UK will need to invest in new generation capacity to replace 
the coal and nuclear power stations that are set to close by the early 2020s in order 
to maintain our energy security, while meeting our legal commitments to reduce 
carbon emissions and increase renewable electricity generation. Paragraph 2.148 
goes on to outline that to do this, the coming years will see a continuation of 
previous trends, which will include more switching from coal to gas-powered 
generation. Thus the Carbon Plan reinforces the position set out in the White Paper 
and acknowledges that to meet our energy security needs and make the transition 
to a low carbon economy, gas will continue to play a valuable role. 
2.8.8 
“Energy Wales – a Low Carbon Transition” (Welsh Government, March 2012) (Ref. 
2.21) states, at page 10, that “Gas will be a key transitional fuel because 
greenhouse gas emissions from gas are significantly less than coal subject to the 
method of extraction. Gas is a flexible, responsive and reliable source of energy 
which can play a key role in the transition to a genuinely low carbon energy 
system”. In the short term, gas, nuclear and bio-energy will provide the energy to 
compensate for the intermittency in supply from renewable resources. 
2.8.9 
“Electricity System: Assessment of Future Challenges – Annex” (DECC, August 
2012) (Ref. 2.22) seeks to fully understand the implications of the challenges posed 
by moving to an energy mix with a greater proportion of intermittent and less 
flexible generation and identify means of addressing them.  The overall aim is to 
ensure that the electricity system can facilitate future low carbon generation and 
expected increases in electricity demand in the most secure and affordable way, 
with the most efficient use of assets.  Again, there is acknowledgement of the 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 2: REGULATORY AND POLICY BACKGROUND 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
2-20 
 
continued role for unabated gas fired generating plant. Paragraph 3.8 states that 
over the next two decades, gas will continue to play a key role in the UK’s energy 
mix alongside other lower carbon electricity sources.  The paragraph goes on to 
state that new gas generation capacity will be needed to ensure security of supply, 
and to balance the electricity system as more low carbon technology becomes 
available.  
2.8.10 The “Electricity Capacity Report” (ECR) (National Grid, May 2017) (Ref. 2.23) 
summarises the modelling analysis undertaken regarding the amount of capacity to 
be secured for delivery in 2018/19 and 2021/22.  The report states that there is 
expected to be an increase in capacity requirements for 2018/19, compared to the 
2014 ECR, and for 2021/22, when compared to the 2016 ECR, based on a higher 
assumed peak demand.  
2.8.11 The “Gas Generation Strategy” (DECC, December 2012) (Ref. 2.24) consolidates 
the range of government policy as set out above in setting out the important role for 
gas generation. It is stated that as a reliable, flexible source of electricity it will play 
a part in any future generation mix, supporting a secure, low-carbon and affordable 
electricity system. It states that “Gas currently forms an integral part of the UK’s 
generation mix and is a reliable, flexible source of electricity. Using gas as a fuel in 
our power stations currently provides a significant proportion of our electricity 
generation (around 40% in 2011)” (Executive Summary). Moreover, it suggests that 
there could be as much as 26 gigawatts (GW) of new gas generation infrastructure 
required if the decarbonisation target is set at 200 g/CO2/kWh. It also indicates that 
in 2030 we could need more overall gas capacity than we have today, although 
operating at lower load factors, reflecting the role of ‘peaking’ plant in backing up 
intermittent sources of energy generation. “The modelling shows that gas could 
play a more extensive role, with higher load factors, should the 4th Carbon Budget 
be revised upwards” (Executive Summary). The strategy also presents scenarios at 
Table 2B on page 22 which indicate that up to 41 GW of new gas generation 
capacity will be needed by 2030 to underpin long term electricity supplies and 
provide back-up to nuclear and wind generation at times of peak demand. 
2.8.12 The 2014 National Infrastructure Plan (HM Treasury, December 2014) (Ref. 2.25) 
provides explicit support for this type of project, stating: “New gas plant is also 
needed and will be vital in supplying a backup for less flexible renewable 
generation and ensuring that the system can meet peak electricity demand” 
(Paragraph 8.4).  Paragraph 8.3 adds that, “Large-scale investment in gas and low-
carbon electricity generation is vital in order to replace ageing energy infrastructure, 
maintain secure energy supplies and meet legally-binding environmental targets.” 
2.8.13 In October 2016, The Energy and Climate Change Committee published “The 
energy revolution and future challenges for UK energy and climate change policy 
— Third Report of Session 2016–17” (Ref 2.26). The report reflects on upcoming 
challenges for UK energy and climate policy. For energy supply it states that “The 
Government should seek to build investor confidence, to avoid exacerbating 
difficulties in bringing forward investment in new electricity capacity and new 
indigenous resources. The Government should also examine the role of the 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 2: REGULATORY AND POLICY BACKGROUND 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
2-21 
 
‘solidarity principle’ in managing potential gas crises, specifically how the UK can 
continue to participate. If excluded from the ‘solidarity principle’ the UK Government 
must urgently investigate alternative back-up arrangements to ensure security of 
supply in the event of a crisis” (Paragraph 111). 
2.8.14 The “Final Report of the Industrial Strategy Commission” (Industrial Strategy 
Commission, November 2017) (Ref 2.27) reinforces that “the availability of a secure 
and reliable energy supply is a central concern” and emphasises that there is a 
“pressing need” to decarbonise energy supplies due to the impacts of climate 
change (page 58). 
2.9 
Welsh Planning Policy 
2.9.1 
Section 104 of the PA 2008 requires the SoS to have regard to any Local Impact 
Report and other matters which the SoS “thinks are both important and relevant to 
the Secretary of State’s decision”, which may include Planning Policy Wales 
(PPW), Technical Advice Notes (TANs), The Wales Spatial Plan, Unitary 
Development Plans (UDPs), (LDPs) or other local policy documents in Wales as 
set out below. 
a) Planning Policy Wales (Edition 9, November 2016) (PPW) and associated 
Technical Advice Notes (TAN) 
2.9.2 
PPW (Ref. 2.28) sets out the land use planning policies of the Welsh Government 
and is supplemented by 24 topic-based TANs.  TANs prescribe the government’s 
policies on various planning issues that shape the preparation of development 
plans.  The principles and objectives of TANs prescribe the overarching national 
guidance for specific individual environmental topics.  TANs relevant to the Project 
include: 
 TAN 5: Nature Conservation and Planning (2009) (Ref 2.29); 
 TAN 6: Planning for Sustainable Rural Communities (2010) (Ref 2.30); 
 TAN 11: Noise (1997) (Ref 2.31); 
 TAN 12: Design (2016) (Ref 2.32); 
 TAN 15: Development and Flood Risk (2004) (Ref 2.33); 
 TAN 18: Transport (2007) (Ref 2.34);  
 TAN 20: Planning and the Welsh Language (2013) (Ref 2.35) 
 TAN 21: Waste (2014) (Ref 2.36); and 
 TAN 23: Economic Development (2014) (Ref 2.37). 
2.9.3 
Both the PPW and TANs may be considered to be  relevant and important under 
the PA 2008 regime.  The provisions of the PPW and TANs which are of potential 
relevance to the Project are set out below. 
2.9.4 
PPW Chapter 4, “‘Planning for Sustainability”, sets out the principles and objectives 
underpinning the Welsh Government’s approach to planning policy for sustainable 
development.  
2.9.5 
The definition of sustainable development in Wales is given in Chapter 4 as: ”the 
process of improving the economic, social, environmental and cultural well-being of 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 2: REGULATORY AND POLICY BACKGROUND 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
2-22 
 
Wales by taking action, in accordance with the sustainable development principle, 
aimed at achieving the well-being goals.” (PPW Figure 4.2). 
2.9.6 
PPW Paragraph 4.2.2 highlights that “the planning system provides for a 
presumption in favour of sustainable development to ensure that social, economic 
and environmental issues are balanced and integrated”. 
2.9.7 
PPW Section 4.4 outlines the objectives for the planning system which reflect the 
Welsh Government’s view for sustainable development and the outcomes they 
seek to deliver across Wales. A summary of the relevant objectives (paragraph 
4.4.3) is listed below: 
 “Promote resource-efficient and climate change resilient settlement patterns…;” 
 “Play an appropriate role in securing the provision of infrastructure to form the 
physical basis for sustainable communities” (including energy supplies and 
distribution networks); 
 “Encourage opportunities to reduce waste and all forms of pollution and 
promote good environmental management and best environmental practice;” 
 “Promote a low carbon economy and social enterprises;” 
 “Support initiative and innovation and avoid placing unnecessary burdens on 
enterprises…so as to enhance the economic success of both urban and rural 
areas…;” 
 “Contribute to the protection and improvement of the environment, so as to 
improve the quality of life, and protect local and global ecosystems;” 
 “Minimise the risks posed by, or to, development on or adjacent to unstable or 
contaminated land and land liable to flooding;” 
 “Promote quality, lasting, environmentally-sound and flexible employment 
opportunities;” 
 “Contribute to the protection and, where possible, the improvement of people’s 
health and wellbeing as a core component of sustainable development and 
responding to climate change;” 
 “Promote access to employment, shopping, education, health, community, 
leisure and sports facilities and open and green space, maximising 
opportunities for community development and social welfare;” 
 “Respect and encourage diversity in the local economy;” 
 “Foster improvements to transport facilities and services which maintain or 
improve accessibility to services and facilities, secure employment, economic 
and environmental objectives, and improve safety and amenity;” 
 “Foster social inclusion by ensuring that full advantage is taken of the 
opportunities to secure a more accessible environment for everyone that the 
development of land and buildings provides;” and 
 Support the need to tackle the causes of climate change by moving towards a 
low carbon economy.” 
2.9.8 
PPW Chapter 4 is supplemented by TAN 6 “Planning for Sustainable Rural 
Communities” (2010) (Ref 2.30), which provides practical guidance on how the 
planning system can contribute to: sustainable rural economies; sustainable rural 
housing; sustainable rural services and sustainable agriculture.  TAN 6 recognises 
that “strong rural economies are essential to support sustainable and vibrant rural 
communities” (paragraph 3.1.1) and supports the “diversification of the rural 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 2: REGULATORY AND POLICY BACKGROUND 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
2-23 
 
economy by accommodating the needs of both traditional rural industries and new 
enterprises, whilst minimising impacts on the local community and the environment” 
(paragraph 3.1.2).  
2.9.9 
TAN 12, “Design,” (2016) (Ref. 2.32) should also be considered in conjunction with 
Chapter 4 of PPW.  This TAN sets out the objectives of good design and aims to 
encourage good design in all aspects of development, stating that: “The way in 
which development relates to its urban or rural landscape context or seascape 
context is critical to its success” (paragraph 5.5.1).  “The aim should be to achieve 
good design solutions, which maximise the natural landscape assets and minimise 
environmental impact on the landscape.  It is particularly important that proposals 
to amend or create new landscape are not considered as an afterthought and that 
the long term impact of development on the landscape is fully understood” 
(paragraph 5.5.2). 
2.9.10 TAN 18, “Transport,” (2007) (Ref. 2.34) provides guidance on issues relating to 
sustainable development through transport, so represents a further supplementary 
document to Chapter 4. TAN 18 describes how to integrate land use and transport 
planning and explains how transport impacts should be assessed and mitigated. 
2.9.11 PPW Chapter 5, “Conserving and Improving Natural Heritage and the Coast,” sets 
out the Welsh Government’s overarching advice on the conservation of biodiversity 
and the coast in a planning context. The chapter sets out objectives for 
conservation that should be delivered via the planning process. It includes 
guidance on integrating the requirements of development and conservation, and 
highlights existing measures for biodiversity conservation (legislation and policy) in 
Wales.  
2.9.12 The approach to conservation delivered through PPW is similar to the general 
principles contained within NPS EN-1 which states that development should aim to 
avoid significant harm to biodiversity and geological conservation interests through 
mitigation and consideration of reasonable alternatives. Paragraph 5.3.6 of NPS 
EN-1 does however suggest that “the benefits of nationally significant low carbon 
energy infrastructure development may include benefits for biodiversity and 
geological conservation interests and these benefits may outweigh harm to these 
interests”.  
2.9.13 PPW Chapter 5 is supplemented by TAN 5 ”Nature Conservation and Planning” 
(2009) (Ref. 2.29), which is concerned with the protection of statutorily designated 
site and habitats, the conservation of protected and priority species; and protecting 
and enhancing biodiversity and nature conservation in the wider countryside within 
Wales. 
2.9.14 PPW Chapter 7, “Economic Development,” refers to the Welsh Government 
definition of economic development as development of land and buildings for 
activities that generate wealth, jobs and incomes (paragraph 7.1.1).  This 
paragraph also notes that the “construction and energy sectors are important to the 
economy and sensitive to planning policies”.  
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 2: REGULATORY AND POLICY BACKGROUND 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
2-24 
 
2.9.15 It is likely to be relevant to consider the provisions of the NPSs in light of the Welsh 
Government’s definition of economic development. In paragraph 2.1.2 of NPS EN-1 
it states that “energy is vital to economic prosperity and social well-being” and as 
such, it is important to ensure that the UK has secure and affordable energy and 
the infrastructure in place to deliver this. Section 5.12 of the NPS outlines that the 
applicant should assess socio-economic impacts of proposals, which will include 
giving due consideration to the creation of jobs and training opportunities. 
2.9.16 TAN 23, “Economic Development” (2014) (Ref. 2.37), provides additional 
interpretation to chapter 7.  PPW chapter 7 states that the planning system should 
support economic and employment growth alongside social and environmental 
considerations within the context of sustainable development (paragraph 7.1.3). 
TAN 23 contains the concept of “larger than local planning”, which advises that 
market forces do not respect local authority boundaries and therefore the planning 
system should ensure that it steers development to the most efficient and 
sustainable locations.  This means that strategic planning for economic 
development is essential.  Paragraph 2.1.1 addresses the need to weigh economic 
benefits and states that “it should not be assumed that economic objectives are 
necessarily in conflict with social and environmental objectives”.  The TAN advises 
that the planning system should positively and imaginatively seek win-win 
outcomes (paragraph 2.1.1). 
2.9.17 PPW Chapter 12, “Infrastructure and Services,” emphasises the importance of 
infrastructure projects to Wales: “Adequate and efficient infrastructure, including 
services such as education and health facilities along with water supply, sewers, 
waste management, electricity and gas (the utilities) and telecommunications, is 
crucial for the economic, social and environmental sustainability of all parts of 
Wales” (paragraph 12.1.1). 
2.9.18 The Welsh Government aims to secure the environmental and telecommunications 
infrastructure necessary to meet sustainable development objectives, which are 
listed in paragraph 12.1.4 of PPW.  The objectives considered to be relevant for the 
purposes of this project are listed as follows: 
 
“To promote the generation and use of energy from renewable and low carbon 
energy sources at all scales and promote energy efficiency, especially as a 
means to secure zero or low carbon developments and to tackle the causes of 
climate change;” 
 
“To promote an integrated approach to the provision and renewal of 
environmental and telecommunications infrastructure;” 
 
“To ensure that environmental and telecommunications infrastructure is 
provided in such a way as to enable sustainable development objectives to be 
met, avoiding adverse impacts on the environment (including the natural and 
historic environment), local communities and health;” 
 
“To ensure that in considering environmental and telecommunications 
infrastructure account is taken of the impacts of climate change in the location, 
design, build, operation and, where appropriate, the decommissioning of new 
infrastructure (see 4.5 [of PPW6]);” and 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 2: REGULATORY AND POLICY BACKGROUND 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
2-25 
 
 
“To ensure that the vulnerability of infrastructure to severe weather events is 
minimised and that infrastructure is designed to cope with higher average 
temperatures and increasing risk of storm surges, drought and flooding.” 
2.9.19 Section 12.8.6 of PPW outlines that it is the Welsh government’s aim to, “secure an 
appropriate mix of energy provision for Wales which maximises benefits to our 
economy and communities, whilst minimising potential environmental and social 
impacts. This forms part of the Welsh Government’s aim to secure the strongest 
economic development policies to underpin growth and prosperity in Wales 
recognising the importance of clean energy and the efficient use of natural 
resources, both as an economic driver and a commitment to sustainable 
development.”  
2.9.20 For the purposes of planning policy, 12.8.7 of PPW defines “low carbon energy” as 
the term used to cover technologies that are energy efficient (but does not include 
nuclear).  Figure 12.2 sets out the scales of development, for planning purposes, 
for low carbon and renewable energy projects.  It acknowledges that an energy 
project is deemed to be “strategic” when it exceeds a threshold of 50MW for all 
technologies other than onshore wind.  Additionally the PPW recognises the role of 
the SoS in deciding onshore projects of an installation size of over 50 MW. 
2.9.21 PPW Chapter 13, “Minimising and Managing Environmental Risks and Pollution,” is 
concerned with maximising environmental protection for people, natural and 
cultural resources, property and infrastructure; and preventing or managing 
pollution and promoting good environmental practice (paragraph 13.1.2).  
2.9.22 Chapter 13 is supplemented by TAN 15, “Development and Flood Risk” (2004) 
(Ref. 2.33), which provides a precautionary framework to guide planning decisions 
within which risks arising from both river and coastal flooding, and from additional 
run-off from development in any location, can be assessed.  
2.9.23 PPW Chapter 13 is also supplemented by TAN 11, “Noise” (1997) (Ref. 2.31), 
which provides advice on “how the planning system can be used to minimise the 
adverse impact of noise without placing unreasonable restrictions on development 
or adding unduly to the costs and administrative burdens of business”. It outlines 
some of the main considerations which LPAs should take into account in 
determining planning applications for development which will either generate noise 
or be exposed to existing noise sources. 
2.9.24 PPW Chapter 14 sets out land use planning policy guidance in relation to mineral 
extraction and related development in Wales, which includes all minerals and 
substances in, on or under land extracted either by underground or surface 
working.  The key principles are: 
 
“To provide for an adequate supply of minerals that society needs now and in 
the future, together with protecting and improving amenity; 
 
To protect things that are highly cherished for their intrinsic qualities, such as 
wildlife, landscapes and historic features; and to protect human health and 
safety by ensuring that environmental impacts caused by mineral extraction 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 2: REGULATORY AND POLICY BACKGROUND 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
2-26 
 
and transportation are within acceptable limits; and to secure, without 
compromise, restoration and aftercare to provide for appropriate and beneficial 
after-use; 
 
To help conserve non-renewable resources for future generations through 
efficient use, recycling and waste prevention; to protect renewable resources 
from serious harm or pollution; and to promote the use of appropriate 
alternative materials; and 
 
To ensure an adequate supply of minerals that are needed at prices that are 
reasonable; and to safeguard mineral resources for future generations.” 
2.9.25 TAN 20, “Planning and the Welsh Language” (2013) (Ref. 2.35), provides guidance 
on how the Welsh language may be given appropriate consideration in the planning 
system, particularly in respect of LDPs, development management and signs and 
advertisements.  Paragraph 3.1.1 notes that, “Planning decisions should be 
concerned with the use of land rather than the identity or personal characteristics of 
the user.” The appropriate use of the Welsh language has been considered 
throughout pre-application consultation and in the preparation of the DCO 
Application. 
2.9.26 TAN 21, “Waste” (2014) (Ref. 2.36),  advises on the role of land use planning in the 
management and control of waste. Guidance is based on the principles of the 
waste hierarchy, which seeks to prevent waste in the first instance, or alternatively 
re-use or recycle waste.  The principles in TAN 21 have been applied in 
consideration of waste issues for the Project. 
b) Minerals Technical Advice Notes 
2.9.27 Minerals planning policy set out in PPW is supplemented by topic-based Minerals 
Technical Advice Notes (MTANs). 
2.9.28 Two MTANs have been produced, one concerning aggregates (MTAN 1, March 
2004) (Ref. 2.38) and the other concerning coal (MTAN 2, 2009) (Ref 2.39).  
2.9.29 They set out detailed advice on the mechanisms for delivering the policy for coal 
extraction, through surface and underground working, by mineral planning 
authorities and the coal mining industry and may be material in the determination of 
applications under the Town & Country Planning Act 1990 (“TCPA 1990”).  
2.9.30 The Project Site is located on land identified within local planning policy with coal 
and sand and aggregate resources (section 2.10) and therefoe the two MTANs 
may, potentially be considered relevant in relation to NSIP applications under the 
PA 2008, in interpreting land use criteria contained in the relevant NPS.  
c) Wales Spatial Plan 
2.9.31 The Wales Spatial Plan (Ref 2.40) was adopted by the Welsh Government in 2004 
and updated in 2008. 
2.9.32 The purpose of the Wales Spatial Plan is “to ensure that what is done in the public, 
private and third sectors in Wales is integrated and sustainable, and that actions 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 2: REGULATORY AND POLICY BACKGROUND 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
2-27 
 
within an area support each other and jointly move towards a shared vision for 
Wales and for the different parts of Wales” (paragraph 1.5). The Plan identifies six 
sub-regions in Wales but does not define these Spatial Plan Areas by 
administrative boundaries, allowing partners to work together on common issues in 
a flexible way.  The Spatial Plan area which the Project Site falls under is South 
East Wales “Capital Region.” 
2.9.33 Chapter 11 recognises that the economy in Wales has a spatial dimension. 
Paragraph 11.1 recognises that while some areas adjoining the English border 
have economic performance characteristics fairly similar to the UK average, the 
more western areas and the former coal-mining areas lag behind.  
2.9.34 Paragraph 11.6 states the need to take a joint approach with local authorities, travel 
consortia, and others to tackling regional infrastructure problems on issues of 
housing, transport, water, sewerage, energy, waste and information and 
communications technology (ICT). 
d) Environment Strategy for Wales (2006) 
2.9.35 The Environment Strategy for Wales (Ref 2.41) was published in 2006 and outlines 
the Welsh Government’s long term strategy for the environment of Wales over the 
next 20 years. The purpose of the Strategy is to provide a framework within which 
to “achieve an environment which is clean, healthy, biologically diverse and valued 
by the people of Wales”, such that by 2026, the Welsh environment is “thriving and 
contributing to the economic and social well-being and health of all of the people of 
Wales” (page 3).  
2.9.36 The Environment Strategy has 5 main environmental issues: addressing climate 
change; sustainable resource use; distinctive biodiversity, landscapes and 
seascapes; the local environment; and environmental hazards.  For each of the 
environmental themes, the Strategy explains the issues, proposed outcomes and 
associated indicators and timelines for delivery. 
2.9.37 The Environment Strategy is currently being reviewed by the Welsh Government to 
ensure that it reflects the relevant commitments in the Natural Resource 
Management Programme. 
e) Noise Action Plan for Wales 2013 – 2018 
2.9.38 The Noise Action Plan (Ref 2.42), produced by the Welsh Government, describes 
how and why environmental noise is managed across Wales and includes a 
chapter devoted to noise management in the built up area of Swansea and Neath 
Port Talbot.  It includes the identification of Quiet Areas and Priority Areas.  The 
Project Site does not lie within or in the vicinity of the designated areas, however 
the general principles of the Noise Action Plan may be of relevance. 
 
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 2: REGULATORY AND POLICY BACKGROUND 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
2-28 
 
2.10 
Local Planning Policy 
2.10.1 In deciding an application under the PA 2008, the SoS must have regard to the 
NPSs and "any other matters which the Secretary of State thinks are both important 
and relevant to the Secretary of State's decision" (Section 104(2)(d) of the PA 
2008).  Local planning policy guidance on land use and environmental protection 
may be considered by the Secretary of State to be a relevant and important matter 
to which regard should be had in the decision making for the Power Generating 
Plant.   
2.10.2 The relevant development plan for the Project Site is the CCS UDP which is 
considered further below. 
2.10.3 In addition, draft and supplementary local planning policy, referred to below, are 
material considerations under the TCPA 1990 regime and may also be “important 
and relevant” (Section 104(2)(d) of the PA 2008) to the determination of the DCO 
Application. 
a) Development Plan 
2.10.4 The CCS UDP (Ref 2.43) was adopted in November 2008 and comprises the UDP 
Proposals Map and UDP Written Statement.  The UDP is the key development plan 
document for the area which provides a range of policies and proposals relating to 
future development within CCS up to 2016. 
i. 
CCS UDP 2008 Proposals Map and site-specific policies 
2.10.5 As shown on the UDP Proposals Map (Figures 2-1 and 2-2), the Project Site is 
located on land identified as “Coal” and “Sand and Aggregates”, where UDP 
Policies R2 and R4 respectively apply. Policy R2 states that development proposals 
that would affect the working of known potential resources will have to be 
accompanied by a full assessment of the potential resource and the impact of the 
proposal in terms of sterilising the resource. Similarly, Policy R4 states that 
development proposals that would affect the working of known potential mineral 
resources will have to be accompanied by a full assessment of the potential mineral 
resource and the impact of the proposal in terms of sterilising the resource. 
2.10.6 The Project Site is also located adjacent to the south of a Hazardous Installation 
Consultation Zone and approximately 200 m to the north of a Notified High 
Pressure Mains Buffer where UDP Policy EV41 applies.  Policy EV41 states that 
development of land in the vicinity of existing hazardous installations will not be 
permitted if there would be a significant risk to life or health.  
2.10.7 Approximately 300 m to the east of the Project Site, and therefore not affected by 
the Project, is land identified as having known potential for “Crushed Rock” mineral 
resources, where UDP Policy R5 applies.  Policy R5 states that development 
proposals that would affect the working of known potential mineral resources will 
have to be accompanied by a full assessment of the potential mineral resource and 
the impact of the proposal in terms of sterilising the resource. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 2: REGULATORY AND POLICY BACKGROUND 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
2-29 
 
Figure 2.1 Extract from UDP Proposals Map (Map 2: Urban Area East) 
 
Figure 2.2 Extract from UDP Proposals Map (Key) 
 
ii. CCS UDP 2008 Written Statement 
2.10.8 The UDP Written Statement sets out the broad vision and strategy for development 
and conservation together with more detailed policies and development proposals.  
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 2: REGULATORY AND POLICY BACKGROUND 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
2-30 
 
In addition to the site-specific policies set out above, the following UDP policies are 
also considered to be relevant. 
2.10.9 Strategic Policy SP1 states that “sustainable development will be pursued as an 
integral principle of the planning and development process.” 
2.10.10 Strategic Policy SP2 states that “the countryside will be protected and 
conserved…” 
2.10.11 Strategic Policy SP3 states that the natural, built, and cultural heritage of the 
County will be protected and enhanced to safeguard from materially harmful 
development. 
2.10.12 Strategic Policy SP11 states that “the upgrading of infrastructure provision and the 
generation of energy from renewable resources to meet the needs of existing and 
new development will be favoured, provided that environmental impact is kept to a 
minimum”. 
2.10.13 Strategic Policy SP12 states that the Council will encourage development that 
“makes efficient use of resources and energy”. 
2.10.14 Policy EV1 states that new development should accord with a number of objectives 
of “good design,” including: 
i. 
“Be appropriate to its local context in terms of scale, height, massing, 
elevational treatment, materials and detailing, layout, form, mix and density;” 
ii. 
“Integrate effectively with adjacent spaces and the public realm;” 
iii. 
“Not result in a significant detrimental impact on local amenity in terms of visual 
impact, loss of light or privacy, disturbance and traffic movements;” 
iv. 
“Incorporate a good standard of landscape design;” 
v. 
“Sensitively relate to existing development patterns and seek to protect natural 
heritage, the historic and cultural environment not only on-site, but in terms of 
potential impact on neighbouring areas of importance;” 
vi. 
“Promote resource efficient and adaptable buildings and layouts using 
sustainable design and construction techniques, including the re-use and 
recycling of construction and demolition waste on site, and energy and water 
efficiency measures;” and 
vii. 
“Provide a safe environment by addressing issues of security…”  
 
2.10.15 Policy EV2 states that new development should have regard to the physical 
character and topography of the site and its surroundings by: 
i. 
“Avoiding locations that would have a significant adverse impact on prominent 
buildings, landscapes, open spaces and the general including loss of visual 
amenity, 
ii. 
Effectively integrating with the landscape, seascape or coastline by utilising 
topography to integrate into the contours of the site and avoiding conspicuous 
locations on prominent skylines and ridges, 
iii. 
Retaining important views into and out of the site, 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 2: REGULATORY AND POLICY BACKGROUND 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
2-31 
 
iv. 
Taking into account and where possible retaining site features including 
existing buildings, topography, landscape, archaeological and water features, 
trees and hedgerows, and, where appropriate: 
v. 
Undertaking, at the earliest opportunity, an assessment of species and habitats 
on site and, where planning permission is granted, implementing any 
necessary mitigation measures, 
vi. 
Avoiding detrimental effects on the historic environment, 
vii. 
Locating near transport nodes to encourage an integrated transport system, 
viii. 
Not prejudicing the viability and function of any agricultural land adjoining the 
site, 
ix. 
Determining whether the proposal would be at risk from flooding, increase flood 
risk off-site, or create additional water run-off, development for infrastructure 
and services, 
x. 
Having due regard to the implications of the development for infrastructure and 
services, 
xi. 
Integrating with existing community facilities, 
xii. 
Utilising landscape and topography to maximise energy efficiency, 
xiii. 
Having full regard to existing adjacent developments and the possible impact of 
environmental pollution from those developments, as well as the creation of 
any environmental pollution to the detriment of neighbouring occupiers 
(including light, air and noise), 
xiv. 
Identifying the location of any hazardous installations in the area and 
development that would be at risk from, or prejudice the operational use of, 
hazardous installations, 
xv. 
Identifying and fully addressing issues of contamination and land instability.” 
2.10.16 Policy EV3 states that proposals for new development will be required to, inter alia, 
“provide access and facilities for all” and “contribute to a high quality public realm”. 
2.10.17 Policy EV6 states that the Council will seek to “protect, preserve and enhance” 
unscheduled archaeological site and monuments and their settings.  Where 
proposals affect sites and areas of archaeological potential, applicants are required 
to undertake an assessment of the impact of development and set out measures to 
preserve, enhance and record features of archaeological interest.   
2.10.18 Policy EV12 states that “the character of lanes and public paths that contribute to 
the amenity, natural and historic qualities of an area will be protected…In rural 
areas the design of any necessary works should be appropriate to the character of 
the area and should not detract from the landscape or suburbanise the area.” 
2.10.19 Policy EV21 states that non-residential development in the countryside will only be 
permitted where it can be demonstrated that: 
i. 
“It is beneficial for the rural economy or rural employment, or 
ii. 
It meets the overriding social or economic needs of the local community, or 
iii. 
It is an appropriate development associated with farm diversification, 
sustainable tourism and recreation, or nature conservation and does not 
adversely affect the viability of an established farm unit, or 
iv. 
It provides an acceptable economic use for previously developed land or 
existing building(s) in accordance with Policy EC12 [which concerns the 
conversion and re-use of existing rural buildings], or 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 2: REGULATORY AND POLICY BACKGROUND 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
2-32 
 
v. 
It is essential for communications, telecommunications, other forms of utility 
service provision, minerals or renewable energy generation.” 
2.10.20 Policy EV22 states that the countryside will be “conserved and enhanced for the 
sake of its natural heritage, natural resources, historic and cultural, environment 
and agricultural and recreational value” through the control of development and 
practical management and improvement measures. 
2.10.21 Policy EV30 states that encouragement will be given to the “protection and 
improved management of woodlands, trees and hedgerows which are important for 
their visual amenity, historic environment, natural heritage and/or recreation value.”  
Priority will be given to: “(i) protecting the remaining areas of ancient semi natural 
woodland and planted ancient woodland sites; (ii) promoting new planting with 
species appropriate to the location…; and (iii) ensuring that protection of amenity 
interests is achieved where management involves commercial felling and 
replanting.” 
2.10.22 Policy EV38 states that development proposals on land where there is a risk from 
contamination or landfill gas will not be permitted unless it can be demonstrated 
that “measures can be taken to satisfactorily overcome any danger to life, health, 
property, controlled waters, or the natural and historic environment.” 
2.10.23 Policy EV40 states that development proposals will not be permitted that would 
“cause or result in significant harm to health, local amenity, natural heritage, the 
historic environment or landscape character because of significant levels of air, 
noise or light pollution.” 
2.10.24 Policy EC1 allocates 190 ha of employment land at Felindre Strategic Business 
Park, located approximately 1.5 km to the south-west of the Project Site, in order to 
meet the growth needs of the local economy. 
2.10.25 Policy EC13 states that development that would result in the loss of the best and 
most versatile agricultural land will not normally be permitted, unless “there is an 
overriding need and:  
i. 
Previously developed land is unavailable, and either 
ii. 
Lower grade land is unavailable, or 
iii. 
Lower grade land is of a higher environmental value.” 
2.10.26 Policy HC1 allocates land at Tircoed, Penllergaer, located approximately 2.5 km to 
the south-west of the Project Site, for the delivery of 84 units. 
2.10.27 Policy R16 states that “proposals for major new developments will be required to 
incorporate adequate and effective waste management facilities.” 
2.10.28 Policy AS2 states that new developments should be designed to “allow for the safe, 
efficient and non-intrusive movement of vehicles”.  In addition, the means of access 
to new developments should be designed to ensure that impacts on the natural, 
historic and built environment and local communities are minimised. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 2: REGULATORY AND POLICY BACKGROUND 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
2-33 
 
2.10.29 Policy AS3 states that “development that adversely affects the safety, enjoyment 
and convenient use of a Public Right of Way (PROW) will only be permitted where 
an acceptable alternative route is identified.” 
2.10.30 Policy AS10 requires new developments to “incorporate appropriate traffic 
management measures to mitigate against significant adverse impacts that would 
otherwise be caused by traffic movements.” 
b) Other Material Considerations  
i. 
CCS Draft LDP – Overview  
2.10.31 CCS is currently in the process of preparing a new LDP (Ref 2.44), which upon 
adoption will replace the UDP as the key planning policy document for CCS up to 
2025. 
2.10.32 To date, the preparation of the LDP has been subject to the following phases of 
consultation and engagement: 
 Stage 1: Delivery Agreement (DA) – The DA sets out the timetable for 
preparation of the LDP and the Council’s Community Involvement Scheme. 
The DA was subject to consultation in April and May 2009 and was updated in 
2013. 
 Stage 2: Pre-Deposit Plan Preparation and Involvement – This stage included 
the preparation and collection of background evidence, and an invitation for the 
submission of candidate sites for assessment from 2010.  
 Stage 3: Pre-Deposit Plan Preparation and Public Consultation – A Draft LDP 
Vision and Objectives document and a Draft LDP Strategic Options document 
were subsequently subject to consultation in 2012.  Following this, the Draft 
LDP Preferred Strategy was subject to public consultation (via exhibitions, 
community information sessions, presentations and workshops) in 2013, prior 
to the publication of the final LDP Preferred Strategy in July 2014.  In 
December 2014, a draft LDP proposals map was published for consultation on 
proposed sites and boundary changes. 
 Stage 4: Deposit Plan (including consultation on a draft version of the LDP) – 
Further to preceding stages and review of consultation feedback, the Deposit 
LDP was published for consultation between July and August 2016. 
2.10.33 CCS submitted the LDP to the Ministers of the Welsh Government for independent 
examination on 28th July 2017.  Following formal acceptance on 4th August 2017, 
the Ministers of the Welsh Government have appointed Inspectors to conduct the 
independent examination and to assess the soundness of the LDP.  The first stage 
of the examination will be a pre-hearing meeting on 13th December 2017 to explain 
and discuss procedural and administrative matters relating to the management of 
the examination.  Examination hearings are subsequently due to commence on 6th 
February 2018. 
2.10.34 The examination hearings are currently scheduled to proceed on a topic basis as 
set out in Table 2-1: 
 
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 2: REGULATORY AND POLICY BACKGROUND 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
2-34 
 
Table 2-1 CCS LDP Examination Hearings Programme 
Week 1:  
6 - 9 February 
Week 2:  
13 - 15 February 
Week 3: 
27 Feb - 1 March 
Week 4: 
13 - 15 March 
Week 5: 
20-22 March 
Plan preparation; 
vision & 
objectives; 
spatial strategy 
Strategic 
Development 
Areas D, E and 
G 
Non-strategic and 
rural exception 
site allocations 
Transport, 
social 
infrastructure 
and open space 
Reserve 
Deliverability and 
infrastructure 
Strategic 
Development 
Areas B, C and H 
Employment, retail 
and tourism 
Welsh 
language; 
design; built & 
natural 
environment 
Alternative sites 
Housing 
provision 
Strategic 
Development 
Areas A, F, I, J, K 
and L 
Green Belt, Green 
Wedges, 
settlement 
boundaries, key 
villages, rural 
areas 
Gypsy & 
Traveller sites; 
specialist 
housing 
Monitoring 
Affordable 
housing 
 
 
Energy, flood 
risk, 
environmental 
protection, 
minerals & 
waste 
 
 
2.10.35 Following formal closure of the examination hearings, the inspector's report will be 
prepared and submitted to the Council with recommendations regarding the LDP.  It 
is anticipated the LDP would be formally adopted by CCS thereafter subject to the 
inspector’s recommendations.   
2.10.36 Prior to the commencement of examination hearings, the submitted LDP is 
considered to hold some weight for decision-making purposes based on the 
previous stages of preparation and consultation (listed above).  At the closure of 
the examination hearings and following the publication of the inspector’s report, the 
weight to be attached to the draft LDP may change based upon the inspector’s 
recommendations.  Upon adoption, the LDP would replace the UDP and receive full 
weight for decision-making purposes. 
2.10.37 The submitted LDP, comprising the Proposals Maps and Written Statement, seeks 
to provide a planning framework that will enable the delivery of sustainable 
development in the right places across the county. 
ii. CCS Draft LDP Proposals Map and site-specific policies 
2.10.38 As shown on the draft LDP Proposals Map (Figures 2-3 and 2-4), the Project Site is 
located on land identified as safeguarded ”Coal Resources” and ”Sand and Gravel” 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 2: REGULATORY AND POLICY BACKGROUND 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
2-35 
 
resource, where draft LDP Policy R12 applies. Draft Policy RP 12 states that 
“development within mineral safeguarding areas that would permanently sterilise 
identified resources of aggregates and coal will only be permitted where it can be 
demonstrated that:  
 The extraction of the mineral is impracticable, uneconomic or environmentally 
unacceptable;  
 The mineral has already been extracted or can be extracted satisfactorily prior 
to the development taking place;  
 The scale and location of the development would have no significant impact on 
the potential working of the resource; or  
 There is an overriding need for the development.” 
2.10.39 The Project Site is also located within proximity of a designated Mineral Buffer 
Zone, where draft LDP Policy RP 14 applies.  Draft Policy RP 14 states that, aside 
from mineral extraction and sensitive non-mineral development, any other 
development proposals will be “carefully assessed to ensure that there would be no 
significant adverse effect on natural heritage, the amenity and well-being of 
neighbouring properties, or the quality and quantity of controlled waters.” 
2.10.40 To the north, the Project Site is located within proximity of a Landscape Protection 
Area, where Policy ER5 applies, and a Strategic Search Area, where Policy EU1 
applies.  Draft Policy ER 5 states that “development will not be permitted that would 
have a significant adverse effect on the character and quality of the landscape and 
setting of the County”.  Within Special Landscape Areas, including the Mawr 
Uplands to the north of the Project Site, priority will be given to protecting, 
managing and enhancing the character and quality of the area. Draft Policy EU 1 
support proposals for large scale wind farms and their associated infrastructure 
within the Strategic Search Area. 
2.10.41 To the south, the Project Site is located within proximity of a Strategic Development 
Area (Policy SD 1(G)) and safeguarded land at Morriston Hospital (Policy SI 4). 
2.10.42 Draft Policy SD G seeks to allocate a new sustainable settlement at land north-west 
of M4 J46 at Llangyfelach, to the south-west of the Project Site, for “comprehensive 
mixed use development of up to 850 homes during the Plan period, incorporating a 
mix of low-medium and high density residential, a new district centre with 
commercial units, primary school, a mix of public realm, open space and play 
provision, new community buildings, and a strategic business park.” 
2.10.43 Draft Policy SI 4 safeguards land adjacent to Morriston Hospital, to the south-east 
of the Project Site, for future development, restricted to healthcare related uses 
associated with Morriston Hospital.  Proposals are required to be “delivered 
alongside appropriate new and enhanced highway infrastructure that will 
significantly improve the existing substandard road access leading to the site”.  A 
new access road is proposed as part of this proposal (Strategic Transport Strategy 
Table 9.2) to resolve road capacity issues from the roundabout immediately north of 
M4 J46. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 2: REGULATORY AND POLICY BACKGROUND 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
2-36 
 
Figure 2.3 Extract from draft LDP Proposals Map (Map 13: Mawr) 
 
Figure 2.4 Extract from draft LDP Proposals Map (Legend) 
 
iii. CCS Draft LDP - Written Statement 
2.10.44 The LDP Written Statement sets out a vision, strategic objectives and growth 
strategy that addresses development opportunities and issues across the county.  
In addition to the site-specific policies set out above, the following draft LDP 
policies are also considered to be relevant. 
2.10.45 Draft paragraph 1.2.2 sets out the overarching vision of the LDP, that “The County 
will be a desirable place to live, work and visit that (sic): 
 Capitalises on the distinctive relationship between its vibrant urban areas and 
outstanding rural and coastal environments; 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 2: REGULATORY AND POLICY BACKGROUND 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
2-37 
 
 Supports a competitive and prosperous economy that acts as a focal point for 
the wider Swansea Bay City Region; 
 Has sustainable, distinct communities, in both urban and rural locations, that 
benefit from sufficient good quality accommodation, supporting infrastructure, 
community facilities and opportunities for recreation; 
 Is a thriving City Centre destination that offers excellent shopping facilities and 
supporting leisure and business opportunities, capitalising on its proximity to 
the waterfront; 
 Celebrates and conserves its unique natural heritage and cultural and historic 
environments.” 
2.10.46 The LDP vision will be delivered through a series of strategic objectives relating to 
“Enhancing Communities, Facilities & Infrastructure”, “Delivering Economic Growth 
and Prosperity”, and “Fostering a High Quality Environment”.  Of the objectives set 
out in Figure 4, those relevant to the Project are set out below: 
 Ensure that communities have a mix of uses and facilities; 
 Facilitate the provision of appropriate infrastructure to support communities 
and businesses; 
 Encourage appropriate development of low carbon and renewable energy 
resources and energy infrastructure; 
 Support the safeguarding and sustainable use of natural resources where 
appropriate; 
 Support development that positions Swansea as an economically competitive 
place and an economic driver for the City Region; 
 Facilitate growth and diversification of the local economy and an increase in 
high value, skilled employment; 
 Promote and enhance a diverse and sustainable rural economy; 
 Promote a sustainable development strategy that avoids significant adverse 
environmental impacts and respects environmental assets; 
 Maintain and enhance green infrastructure networks; 
 Support measures to minimise the causes and consequences of climate 
change; and 
 Promote good design that is locally distinct, sustainable, innovative and 
sensitive to location. 
2.10.47 Draft Policy PS 1 sets out the Plan’s sustainable development strategy which seeks 
to limit development in the countryside to exceptional circumstances. 
2.10.48 Draft Policy PS 2 requires that development enhances the quality of places and 
spaces and responds positively to local context and character.  In addition, a 
number of design principles are set out dependant on the nature, scale and siting 
of the proposal, including, inter alia: 
 “Have regard to important elements of local heritage, culture, landscape, 
townscape, views and vistas;” 
 “Integrate effectively with and enhance the County’s green infrastructure 
network;” 
 “Provide appropriate parking and circulation areas;” 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 2: REGULATORY AND POLICY BACKGROUND 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
2-38 
 
 “Maximise opportunities for sustainable construction, resource efficiency and 
contributions towards increased renewable or low carbon energy generation;” 
and 
 “Ensure no significant adverse impact on natural heritage and built heritage 
assets.” 
2.10.49 Draft Policy PS 4 seeks to address opportunities for the creation of up to 14,700 
additional jobs over the Plan period. 
2.10.50 In addition to the proposed sustainable settlement at Llangyfelach (Policy SD G), 
proposed development at the following Strategic Development Areas within 
proximity of the Project Site is allocated within the submitted LDP:  
 Draft Policy SD A seeks to allocate land south of Glanffrwd Road at 
Pontarddulais, to the west of the Project Site, for comprehensive, residential 
led, development of up to 720 homes, incorporating a primary school, leisure 
and recreation facilities, public open space and appropriate community 
facilities, employment and commercial uses. 
 Draft Policy SD C seeks to allocate land south of A4240, Penllergaer, to the 
south-west of the Project Site, for comprehensive, residential led, mixed use 
development of up to 750 homes during the Plan period (and up to 1,000 
homes beyond the Plan period), incorporating primary school, leisure and 
recreation facilities, public realm, public open space and appropriate 
community and commercial uses. 
 Draft Policy SD E seeks to allocate land north of Clasemont Road, Morriston, 
to the south of the Project Site, for comprehensive, residential led, mixed use 
development of up to 675 homes during the Plan period, incorporating primary 
school, leisure and recreation facilities, public realm, public open space and 
appropriate community and commercial uses. 
2.10.51 The following draft LDP policies seek to allocate major residential-led development 
at sites within proximity of the Project Site: 
 LDP Policy H1.11 – 60 dwellings at Land at Ramsey Road, Clydach; 
 
 LDP Policy H1.21 – 90 dwellings at Land east of Pontarddulais Road, 
Gorseinon; 
 
 LDP Policy H1.26 – 100 dwellings at Land at Carmel Road and Bryntirion 
Road, Pontlliw; 
 LDP Policy H1.30 – 50 dwellings at Land north of Llewellyn Road, 
Penllergaer; and 
 
 LDP Policy H1.31 – 50 dwellings at Land at Bolgoed Road, Pontarddulais.  
2.10.52 Draft Policy IO 1 states that “development must be supported by appropriate 
infrastructure, facilities and other requirements considered necessary as part of the 
proposal,” which must be provided in a timely and coordinated manner.  Where 
necessary, “planning obligations will be sought to ensure that the effects of 
developments are fully addressed in order to make the development acceptable.”  
2.10.53 Draft Policy IO 2 requires developers to “maximise added benefits from the 
development in relation to the creation of training and job opportunities.” 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 2: REGULATORY AND POLICY BACKGROUND 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
2-39 
 
2.10.54 Draft Policy HC 1 seeks to preserve or enhance the County’s distinctive historic 
and cultural environment by requiring high quality design standards.  Similarly, draft 
Policy HC 2 seeks to preserve or enhance the County’s buildings and features of 
historic importance. 
2.10.55 Draft Policy SI 1 states that health inequalities will be reduced and healthy lifestyles 
encouraged by ensuring that development proposals, inter alia, “do not result in 
significant risks to life, human health or well-being, particularly in respect of air, 
noise, light, water or land pollution.” 
2.10.56 Draft Policy SI 8 states that development must be designed to promote safe and 
secure communities and minimise the opportunity for crime. 
2.10.57 Draft Policy ER 1 requires that development proposals take into account the 
following principles to mitigate against the effects of climate change, adapt to its 
impacts, and to ensure resilience: 
i. 
Reduce carbon emissions; 
ii. 
Protect and increase carbon sinks; 
iii. 
Adapt to the implications of climate change at both a strategic and detailed 
design level; 
iv. 
Promote energy and resource efficiency and increase the supply of renewable 
and low carbon energy; 
v. 
Avoid unnecessary flood risk by assessing the implications of development 
proposals within areas susceptible to flooding and preventing development 
that unacceptably increases risk, and 
vi. 
Maintain ecological resilience. 
2.10.58 Draft Policy ER 2 requires that development to maintain or enhance the County’s 
multi-functional green infrastructure network. 
2.10.59 Draft Policy ER 6 states that “development will not be permitted that would result in 
a likely significant adverse effect to sites of international or national nature 
conservation importance”.  In addition, “development that would affect locally 
designated sites of nature conservation importance should maintain or enhance the 
nature conservation interest of the site.” 
2.10.60 Draft ER 8 states that development proposals that would have a significant adverse 
effect on the continued viability of habitats and species will only be permitted 
where: 
i. 
“The need for development outweighs the nature conservation importance of 
the site”; 
ii. 
The developer demonstrates that there is no satisfactory alternative location 
for the development which avoids nature conservation impacts; 
iii. 
Effective mitigation measures are provided by the developer; and 
iv. 
Any unavoidable harm is minimised by effective mitigation to ensure that there 
is no reduction in the overall nature conservation value of the area.”  
2.10.61 Draft Policy ER 9 states that development proposals “will be expected to maintain, 
protect and enhance ecological networks and features of importance for 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 2: REGULATORY AND POLICY BACKGROUND 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
2-40 
 
biodiversity…Development proposals that could result in a significant adverse 
effect on the connectivity of ecological networks and features of importance for 
biodiversity will only be permitted where: 
i. 
The need for the development outweighs the nature conservation value of the 
site; 
ii. 
It can be demonstrated that there is no satisfactory alternative location for the 
development; 
iii. 
A connected element of the natural resource is retained as part of the design 
of the development; and 
iv. 
Compensatory provision will be made of comparable ecological value to that 
lost as a result of the development.” 
2.10.62 Draft Policy ER 10 states that development will not be permitted that would cause 
significant adverse effect to geological or geomorphological Sites of Special 
Scientific Interest (SSSIs).  Development that would affect regionally important 
geological or geomorphological sites (RIGs) should maintain the geological or 
geomorphological interests of the site. 
2.10.63 Draft Policy ER 11 states that “development that would adversely affect trees, 
woodlands and hedgerows of public amenity, natural/cultural heritage value, or that 
provide important ecosystem services will not normally be permitted.” 
2.10.64 Draft Policy CV 2 sets a presumption against development in the countryside, 
except where it is for, inter alia, “necessary infrastructure provision”.  Development 
in the countryside is required to ensure that the integrity of the countryside is 
conserved and enhanced. 
2.10.65 Draft Policy T 1 requires that “development must be supported by appropriate 
transport measures and infrastructure”.  Development that would have an 
unacceptable impact on the safe and efficient operation of the transport network will 
not be permitted. 
2.10.66 Draft Policy T 5 sets out a series of design principles for transport infrastructure, 
including ensuring that the design of development, inter alia: 
 
“Allows for the safe, efficient and effective movement of vehicles, inclusive of 
service vehicles;” 
 
“Does not give rise to any significant adverse effect on the natural heritage, 
and the historic and cultural environment is preserved and enhanced;” and 
 
“Maintains the character of rural lanes and public paths;” 
2.10.67 Draft Policy T 7 requires that acceptable alternative routes are identified and 
provided where development “significantly adversely affects the character, safety, 
enjoyment and convenient use of a Public Right of Way (PROW).” 
2.10.68 In addition to supporting large scale wind farm developments within the Strategic 
Search Area (referenced above), draft Policy EU 1 supports proposals for 
renewable or low carbon energy development across CCS, subject to the following 
criteria: 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 2: REGULATORY AND POLICY BACKGROUND 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
2-41 
 
a) “The siting, design, layout, type of installation and materials used do not have 
a significant adverse effect on the characteristics and features of the 
proposed location; 
b) The development would not result in unacceptable loss of public amenity or 
public accessibility to the area; 
c) The development would not result in significant adverse effects on natural 
heritage or historic environment, or visual amenity either individually or 
cumulatively; 
d) There would be no significant adverse effect on the Gower AONB; 
e) There would be no significant adverse impact on water quality and quantity; 
f) The development would not result in the permanent sterilisation of minerals 
resources; 
g) The development would not compromise the transport network; 
h) The 
development 
would 
not 
interfere 
with 
aircraft 
operations 
or 
telecommunications; 
i) There would be no loss of carbon sinks, or that on-site loss can be adequately 
mitigated; and 
j) The satisfactory removal of infrastructure and remediation and/or restoration 
of the natural environment, would be undertaken in accordance with an 
aftercare scheme to be agreed with the Council prior to the development 
being carried out.” 
2.10.69 Draft Policy RP 1 seeks to prevent development that would result in a “significant 
risk to: life; human health and well-being; property; controlled waters; or the natural 
and historic environment,” particularly in respect of: “air, noise or light pollution; 
flood risk; water resources; land contamination; land instability or subsidence; 
mineral resources; and sustainable waste management.” 
2.10.70 Draft Policy RP 2 requires that, “where development could lead to exposure to a 
source of air, noise or light pollution, it must be demonstrated that appropriate 
mitigation measures will be implemented and incorporated into the design of the 
development.” 
2.10.71 Draft Policy RP 3 states that “development that compromises the quality of the 
water environment, or does not comply with good water resource management, will 
not be permitted.  Development proposals must make efficient use of water 
resources and, where appropriate, contribute towards improvements to water 
quality.” 
2.10.72 Draft Policy RP 4 states that development will not be permitted in areas at risk of 
flooding, unless it can be demonstrated that “the development can be justified in 
line with national guidance and is supported by a technical assessment that verifies 
that the new development is designed to alleviate the threat and consequences of 
flooding”. 
2.10.73 Draft Policy RP 5 states that “development proposals on land where there is a risk 
from contamination or landfill gas will not be permitted unless it can be 
demonstrated that measures can be taken to satisfactorily overcome any significant 
risk to life, human health, property, controlled waters, or the natural and historic 
environment.” 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 2: REGULATORY AND POLICY BACKGROUND 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
2-42 
 
2.10.74 Draft Policy RP 6 states that “development which would create, affect or might be 
affected by unstable or potentially unstable land will not be permitted where there 
would be a significant direct risk to life, human health, property, buildings and 
structures, or the natural heritage on the site or in its vicinity.” 
2.10.75 Draft Policy RP 7 supports the development of sustainable waste management 
facilities in appropriate rural locations. Supporting paragraph 2.14.48 notes that 
preferred areas for new waste management facilities include the former Tip site at 
Felindre, within proximity of the Project Site.  The site at Felindre is identified 
specifically for the potential to accommodate a Combined Heat and Power (CHP) 
Facility which could provide heat or power for adjacent proposed developments.   
2.10.76 Draft Policy RP 9 requires development to incorporate, as appropriate, “adequate 
and effective provision for the storage, recycling and other sustainable 
management of waste, and allow for appropriate access arrangements for recycling 
and refuse collection vehicles and personnel.” 
iv. CCS Supplementary Planning Guidance 
2.10.77 CCS has produced Supplementary Planning Guidance (SPG) to support the 
implementation of adopted UDP planning policies. 
2.10.78 The Planning Obligations SPG (Ref. 2.45), published by CCS in March 2010, is an 
SPG document of potential relevance to the Project.  The Planning Obligations 
SPG identifies the types of obligations developers may be expected to contribute 
towards, the likely amounts of these obligations, and the procedures involved when 
entering into obligations. 
v. Swansea Environment Strategy 2006 and Ten Year Progress Review (2016) 
2.10.79 The Swansea Environment Strategy (SES) (Ref. 2.46), published by Swansea 
Environmental Forum (SEF) in 2006, provides a long-term vision and strategic 
priorities for the natural and built environment in Swansea.  
2.10.80 SEF is the lead strategic partnership for all aspects of the natural and built 
environment in the City and County of Swansea. It is an independent membership 
organisation, initially set-up in 1985, which brings together individuals, statutory 
bodies, businesses and voluntary groups to promote environmental sustainability 
and develop collaborative projects to improve our natural and urban environments. 
2.10.81 The SES establishes a 2020 vision and a series of priorities for: the natural 
environment and biodiversity; the built environment and energy use; water, land 
and waste management; sustainable transport and air quality; and environmental 
awareness and action. 
 
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 2: REGULATORY AND POLICY BACKGROUND 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
2-43 
 
Table 2-2 SES Themes and Vision 
Theme  
2020 Vision 
The Natural 
Environment and 
Biodiversity 
Swansea’s unique and diverse natural environment will be protected, 
enhanced and promoted to maximise social, economic and 
environmental well-being. 
The Built 
Environment and 
Energy Use  
Swansea will have strong, sustainable and distinctive communities 
where everyone can enjoy a clean, safe and high-quality built 
environment 
with 
affordable 
housing, 
public 
spaces 
and 
considerately-designed and resource-efficient buildings. 
Water, Land and 
Waste Management
 
 
Swansea’s water resources, land and waste will be managed 
sustainably to maximise benefits for everyone and minimise risks to 
the environment and human health. 
Sustainable 
Transport and Air 
Quality 
Swansea’s citizens will live near to work opportunities, leisure 
facilities and essential services, have access to a choice of 
convenient and efficient transport options, and enjoy clean air. 
Environmental 
Awareness and 
Action 
All people living in, working in and visiting Swansea will understand, 
respect and appreciate our environment and will participate in 
positive actions towards sustainability. 
2.10.82 The Ten Year Progress Review (Ref. 2.47) demonstrates that progress has been 
made under each of the Environment Strategy’s five themes, most significantly in 
waste management, sustainable building and energy use, managing flood risk, and 
community engagement. 
vi. Swansea Local Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan 
2.10.83 The Swansea Biodiversity Partnership produced the Swansea Local Biodiversity 
Strategy and Action Plan (Ref. 2.48) in 2005.  The document provides a strategic 
framework and series of detailed species and habitat action plans looking at how 
individuals and organisations could work to try and halt biodiversity loss in 
Swansea. 
2.10.84 The document was prepared with the following aim: “To conserve, enhance and 
promote the special qualities of Swansea’s unique and ecologically diverse natural 
environment, and to maximise the contribution it makes to the social, economic and 
environmental wellbeing of the area” (page 5). 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 2: REGULATORY AND POLICY BACKGROUND 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
2-44 
 
2.11 
References 
Ref. 2.1  
 European Commission, Directive 2011/92/EU. December 2011. 
Ref. 2.2 
 European Commission. Directive 2014/52/EU. May 2014. 
Ref. 2.3 
 European Commission. Directive 2010/75/EU. November 2010. 
Ref. 2.4 
 European Commission. Directive 1992/43/EEC. May 1992 
Ref. 2.5 
 European Commission. Directive 2009/147/EC. November 2009. 
Ref. 2.6 
 European Commission. Directive 2008/50/EC. May 2008. 
Ref. 2.7 
European Commission. Directive 2010/75/EU: Best Available Techniques 
(BAT) Reference Document for Large Combustion Plants. July 2017. 
Ref. 2.8 
The Planning Act 2008 (as amended) 
Ref. 2.9 
The Wales Act 2017 
Ref. 2.10 
The Infrastructure Planning (Environmental Impact Assessment) Regulations 
2009 (as amended) (”the EIA Regulations”). 
Ref. 2.11 
Infrastructure Planning (Applications: Prescribed Forms and Procedure) 
Regulations 2009 (the APFP Regulations) 
Ref. 2.12 
The Well-being of Future Generations (Wales) Act 2015 
Ref. 2.13 
Department of Energy & Climate Change. The Overarching National Policy 
Statement for Energy (NPS EN-1, July 2011). 
Ref. 2.14 
 Department of Energy & Climate Change. The National Policy Statement for 
Fossil Fuel Electricity Generating Infrastructure (NPS EN-2, July 2011). 
Ref. 2.15 
Department of Energy & Climate Change. National Policy Statement for Gas 
Supply Infrastructure and Gas and Oil Pipelines (NPS EN-4, July 2011). 
Ref. 2.16 
Department of Energy & Climate Change. National Policy Statement for 
Electricity Networks Infrastructure (NPS EN-5, July 2011). 
Ref. 2.17 
Department of Energy and Climate, Annual Energy Statement (2014) 
Ref. 2.18 
Welsh Government. A Low Carbon Revolution: The Welsh Assembly 
Government Energy Policy Statement (March 2010) 
Ref. 2.19 
Department of Energy & Climate Change. The Electricity Market Reform 
White Paper (2011) 
Ref. 2.20 
HM Government. The Carbon Plan - delivering our low carbon future (2011) 
Ref. 2.21 
Welsh Government. Energy Wales – A Low Carbon Transition (2012) 
Ref. 2.22 
Department of Energy & Climate Change. ‘Electricity System: Assessment of 
Future Challenges (2012) 
Ref. 2.23 
 National Grid. Electricity Capacity Report (May 2017)  
Ref. 2.24 
Department of Energy & Climate Change. Gas Generation Strategy 
(December 2012) 
Ref. 2.25 
HM Treasury. National Infrastructure Plan (2014) 
Ref. 2.26 
The Energy and Climate Change Committee. The energy revolution and 
future challenges for UK energy and climate change policy — Third Report of 
Session 2016–17 (2016) 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 2: REGULATORY AND POLICY BACKGROUND 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
2-45 
 
Ref. 2.27 
Industrial Strategy Commission. Final Report of the Industrial Strategy 
Commission (November 2017) 
Ref. 2.28 
Welsh Government. Planning Policy Wales (PPW) (November 2016). 
Ref. 2.29 
Welsh Government. Technical Advice Note 5: Nature Conservation and 
Planning (2009). 
Ref. 2.30 
Welsh Government. Technical Advice Note 6: Planning for Sustainable Rural 
Communities (2010). 
Ref. 2.31 
Welsh Government. Technical Advice Note 11: Noise (1997). 
Ref. 2.32 
Welsh Government. Technical Advice Note 12: Design (2016). 
Ref. 2.33 
Welsh Government. Technical Advice Note 15: Development and Flood Risk 
(2004). 
Ref. 2.34 
Welsh Government. Technical Advice Note 18: Transport (2007). 
Ref. 2.35 
Welsh Government. Technical Advice Note 20: Planning and the Welsh 
Language (2013). 
Ref. 2.36 
Welsh Government. Technical Advice Note 21: Waste (2014). 
Ref. 2.37 
Welsh Government. Technical Advice Note 23: Economic Development 
(2014). 
Ref. 2.38 
Welsh Government. Minerals Technical Advice Note 1: Aggregates (2004). 
Ref. 2.39 
Welsh Government. Minerals Technical Advice Note 2: Coal (2009). 
Ref. 2.40 
Welsh Government. People, Places, Futures - The Wales Spatial Plan 2008 
Update (July 2008). 
Ref. 2.41 
Welsh Government. Environment Strategy for Wales (May 2006). 
Ref. 2.42 
Welsh Government. Noise Action Plan for Wales 2013-2018 (December 
2013). 
Ref. 2.43 
The City and County of Swansea. Unitary Development Plan (UDP) 
(November 2008). 
Ref. 2.44 
The City and County of Swansea. The Local Development Plan (LDP) (July 
2016). 
Ref. 2.45 
City and County of Swansea. Planning Obligations Supplementary Planning 
Guidance (SPG) (2010) 
Ref. 2.46 
Swansea Environmental Forum. Swansea Environment Strategy (2014-2016).  
Ref. 2.47 
Swansea Environmental Forum. Ten Year Progress Review (2016). 
Ref. 2.48 
City and County of Swansea. Swansea Local Biodiversity Strategy and Action 
Plan (2005). 
