Drax is capturing  
the opportunity to  
level-up the North. 
The UK’s path to economic recovery post-Covid 
comes together with our country’s need for action 
on climate change and levelling up. It is vital that 
we seize this moment to bring jobs and growth, 
derived from new green industries, to the North  
of England and revitalise the region.
Drax is at the forefront of bringing both 
opportunities and growth to Yorkshire and the 
Humber, whilst tackling climate change. Drax 
Power Station is Europe’s largest decarbonisation 
project and in 2019 Drax became the first company 
in the world to capture CO2 using bioenergy with 
carbon capture storage (BECCS).
Our vision for the local region extends beyond  
the power station cooling towers and sets a course 
for a revitalised region, building on Yorkshire  
and the Humber’s industrial heritage, where jobs 
are protected and created, and new green 
industries are allowed to thrive. 
Our most recent report, Capturing Carbon at  
Drax: Delivering jobs, clean growth and levelling 
up the Humber, proves that the region could be  
the cornerstone of a green economic recovery  
by creating and supporting 
Drax will play a vital role in kickstarting this  
green revolution. BECCS is a negative emissions 
technology not only crucial for getting us to  
net zero, but for attracting global investment  
into the UK.
The nurturing of carbon capture and storage and 
hydrogen technologies into vibrant industries will 
be central to this transition. As a member of the 
Zero Carbon Humber Partnership (ZCH), Drax 
together with its partners is creating one of the 
world’s foremost green industrial regions and the 
UK’s first net zero cluster. 
Unlocking this unique environmental and economic 
opportunity benefits the Humber, the North of 
England and the whole of the UK. 
 49,000 jobs.
Transforming the future of the North.
•  Deploying carbon capture, usage and storage (CCUS), and 
hydrogen technologies in the Humber will create and support 
49,000 jobs, including 25,000 direct jobs and a further 
24,000 jobs through the supply chain and wider UK economy.
•  Drax’s BECCS project will provide one-out-of-three jobs 
across the Humber cluster, meaning 16,700 jobs created 
and supported at its peak in 2028 including 7,700 direct and 
9,000 indirect jobs.
•  Utilising the Humber’s net zero model to accelerate the CCUS 
and hydrogen sector across the UK could mean the creation 
and support of 205,000 direct and indirect jobs.
Building the green skills of the future. 
The Covid crisis has intensified economic uncertainty in 
the North, with almost 60% of construction workers being 
furloughed in August 2020.
The skills gap in the region’s electricity and gas, engineering 
and construction sectors is likely to increase by 2022. Drax 
is playing its part to ensure people in Yorkshire and the 
Humber region have the skills needed for these new green 
jobs; capturing the opportunity for green economic recovery 
and regeneration in the North. Government support for 
our ambition is paramount to levelling-up the region and 
enabling the entire UK to build back greener. 
Drax’s BECCS facility together with the 
deployment of CCUS and hydrogen will help 
Yorkshire and the Humber, as well as the UK, 
by creating a £3.2bn benefit to the economy.
It is crucial that industry in Yorkshire and the Humber is  
transformed so that it can thrive. BECCS will reduce emissions  
and support the Humber’s industry to operate against a 
backdrop of tighter emissions targets; this will preserve some 
55,000 jobs in addition to the jobs highlighted in this report.
•  The deployment of CCUS and hydrogen in the Humber 
means the creation of a £3.2bn economic uplift,  
including a £1.8bn direct benefit and a £1.4bn benefit  
in the supply chain.
•  As a result of Drax’s BECCS project alone, there will be  
a £1.1bn uplift in 2028; £550m direct and £529m indirect.
•  Bringing the benefits of CCUS and hydrogen to the UK 
would mean £14.7bn in economic uplift.
Preserving and creating green jobs  
of the future.
BECCS will future-proof  
the regional and UK economy. 
205,000 jobs
As a result of deploying CCUS & hydrogen across the UK
49,000 jobs
As a result of deploying CCUS & hydrogen in the Humber
16,700 jobs
As a result of Drax BECCS project
Supported by direct capital expenditure        Supported through the supply chain and the wider UK economy
£14.7bn
As a result of deploying CCUS & hydrogen across the UK
£3.2bn 
As a result of deploying CCUS & hydrogen in the Humber
£1.1bn
As a result of Drax BECCS project
Direct economic beneﬁt        Economic beneﬁt in the supply chain and wider economy
£
£
£
To find out more about how Carbon Capture by Drax can help level up the North, 
please visit www.drax.com/Captureit
