 
 
NOTICE OF REDEMPTION 
 
To:  
Each Holder of the Notes (each as defined in the Indenture) as at the date of this 
notice 
 
From:   Drax Finco plc 
 
Date:  November 6, 2020 
 
Senior Secured Fixed Rate Notes due 2022 
ISIN Numbers: XS1602280833* (Rule 144A) and XS1602280676* (Regulation S) 
Common Codes: 160228083* (Rule 144A) and 160228067* (Regulation S) 
 
To: Each Holder of the Notes (each as defined in the Indenture) as at the date of 
this notice 
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that in accordance with Sections 3.03 and 13.01 of the 
indenture dated as of May 5, 2017 (as heretofore amended, supplemented or otherwise 
modified, the "Indenture") among Drax Finco plc, a public limited company incorporated 
under the laws of England and Wales (the "Company"), BNY Mellon Corporate Trustee 
Services Limited, as trustee (the "Trustee"), The Bank of New York Mellon, acting through 
its London Branch, as paying agent (the "Paying Agent") and calculation agent, The Bank of 
New York Mellon SA/NV, acting through its Luxembourg Branch, as registrar and transfer 
agent, and Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch, acting through its London Branch, as security 
agent, the Company has elected to redeem (subject to satisfaction or waiver of the condition 
described below) (the "Redemption") all of its outstanding £350,000,000 Senior Secured 
Fixed Rate Notes due 2022 (the "Fixed Rate Notes") on the Redemption Date (as defined 
below). The Redemption Price (as defined below) will be paid to holders of record as of the 
Record Date (as defined below).  Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined herein have 
the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Indenture.  
1.  The redemption date for the Fixed Rate Notes shall be November 19, 2020 
(the “Redemption Date”). The record date (the "Record Date") shall be November 18, 
2020.  
2.  The redemption price payment will be made in accordance with 
paragraph 5 (Optional Redemption) of the Fixed Rate Notes.  The redemption price (the 
"Redemption Price") will be equal to: 
 
101.0625% of the principal amount of the Fixed Rate Notes to be 
redeemed, plus 
 
Additional Amounts, if any, and, accrued and unpaid interest from 
November 1, 2020 to, but not including, the Redemption Date. 
3.  The Fixed Rate Notes must be surrendered to the Paying Agent, to collect 
the Redemption Price. Payment of the Redemption Price will be made on or after the 
Redemption Date upon presentation and surrender of the Fixed Rate Notes at the following 
address: 
The Bank of New York Mellon, London Branch, as Paying Agent 
One Canada Square 
London E14 5AL 
England 
 4.  On the Redemption Date, the Redemption Price will become due and 
payable upon each Fixed Rate Note.  Unless the Company defaults in making the redemption 
payment, interest on the Fixed Rate Notes will cease to accrue on and after the Redemption 
Date and the only remaining right of Holders will be to receive payment of the Redemption 
Price in respect of the redeemed amount. 
5.  The redemption of the Fixed Rate Notes is being effected pursuant to 
paragraph 5 (Optional Redemption) of the Fixed Rate Notes and in accordance with Article 
Three of the Indenture.  
6.  If your Fixed Rate Notes have been either lost or destroyed, please notify 
The Bank of New York Mellon, as Paying Agent, promptly.  You will then be instructed as to 
the steps you must take in order to receive payment. 
NOTICE: The Paying Agent will withhold under the U.S. backup withholding 
rules the statutorily prescribed rate of any payment that is made upon redemption of a Fixed 
Rate Note unless the Holder, when presenting the Fixed Rate Notes, delivers a properly 
completed IRS Form W-9 or an applicable IRS Form W-8, or the Holder otherwise establishes 
an exemption from such backup withholding. 
           
Enquiries about the above notice should be directed to the Company as set out 
below: 
Drax Power Station 
Selby 
North Yorkshire YO8 8PH 
United Kingdom  
 
Issued By:  Drax Finco plc  
Dated: November 6, 2020 
          
By:  Christopher King 
 
 
 Officer – Drax Finco plc 
 
*These ISIN and Common Code numbers are included solely for the convenience of the 
holders.  Neither the Trustee, the Company nor the Paying Agent shall be responsible for the 
selection or use of any ISIN or Common Code number, nor is any representation made as to 
its correctness or accuracy on any Fixed Rate Note or as referred to in any redemption notice. 
  
 
