5 top tips for your 
apprenticeship application
Reckon an apprenticeship’s for you?
 Check our advice on applying…
Mobilising
a Million
take your
      time
Give yourself enough time to complete 
your application. Don’t rush it! 
• Write, check and submit your application over a 
few days rather than in one go. 
• Have somewhere quiet and free from  
distractions to work on it. 
• Check, double check and triple check! Weed out 
any spelling or grammar mistakes. 
• Ask someone to read through your application – 
they’re likely to spot something you haven’t!
give
 details
To sell yourself, be specific! 
• Write about your strengths, what makes you 
unique and why you’re suited to  
the apprenticeship. 
• Give specific examples from your work or study 
projects. Also think about relevant experiences 
from your home life and leisure activities. 
• Be honest – don’t invent or exaggerate. 
• Focus on quality before quantity. 
• Use up-to-date and professional contact details. 
Include:
• Your email. Don’t use a novelty address (iliketoparty@gmail.com, for 
example!)
• Your telephone number(s). Set up voicemail and check your messages.
• Links to your LinkedIn profile and any work or portfolio websites. Don’t 
link to your social media accounts.
pick the right
apprenticeship for you
Be realistic when looking at options. Do you 
have the skills and attributes required? 
• Use the government’s Apprenticeships website – 
apprenticeships.gov.uk/ - to research the role  
and apprenticeship. 
• Be honest with yourself and try not to be  
influenced by others: is this something you want 
to do? 
• Consider how practical it is for you.  Are you  
happy with the hours and the schedule? Are the 
college and workplace locations easy to get to?
do your
 research
Research is key to help you confidently  
answer the application’s questions.  
Well-researched answers show initiative 
and enthusiasm, and the things you learn 
will help when it comes to your interview. 
• Make sure you understand the company and 
what it does. 
• Look into the study elements of the  
apprenticeship and the subjects you’ll cover. 
• Sign up to a careers portal if the company has 
one and register for news alerts.
          get
 networking
Use LinkedIn to build your network with 
individuals from the industry. Often  
‘who you know’ can make all the  
difference in your career. 
• Join relevant groups and follow influential figures and  
companies for more networking opportunities. 
• Ask mentors to write a personal reference and display it on 
your profile. 
• Add key skills. People from your network can confirm you have 
these skills, making your profile even stronger. 
• Make sure your contact details are up to date and use  
professional profile names and pictures. 
• Think about what you post on social media, and set  
appropriate privacy settings. Potential employers often use 
social platforms to research candidates. 
• Create a profile on the government’s Apprenticeships website 
at apprenticeships.gov.uk/apprentices/get-started
DR1135
www.drax.com
