DRAX GROUP PLC
NOTICE OF THE  
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (AGM)
TO BE HELD AT 11.30AM ON WEDNESDAY 25 APRIL 2018
AT THE GRAND HOTEL & SPA, STATION RISE, YORK YO1 6GD
For shareholders, a Form of Proxy is enclosed with this document. Whether or not you propose to attend the AGM, you are requested to complete 
and submit a Form of Proxy to the Company’s Registrars, Equiniti Limited, Proxy Department, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex 
BN99 6DA to arrive by no later than 11.30am on 23 April 2018.
If you hold shares in CREST you may appoint a proxy by completing and transmitting a CREST proxy instruction to Equiniti Limited  
(CREST participant ID RA19) so that it is received by no later than 11.30am on 23 April 2018.
The return of a completed Form of Proxy or CREST proxy instruction will not prevent you from attending the AGM and voting in person if you wish 
to do so.
For Share Incentive Plan (SIP) participants, a Form of Direction is enclosed with this document and, if used, should be sent to the Trustee, Equiniti 
Share Plan Trustees Limited, at Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA to arrive by no later than 11.30am on 20 April 2018. 
As a participant in the SIP you are unable to attend the meeting unless you hold shares registered in your own name.
THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION. If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take you 
are recommended to seek your own financial advice from your stockbroker, solicitor, accountant or other professional adviser authorised under 
the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have sold or transferred all of your holding of ordinary shares in Drax Group plc please forward this document and the accompanying 
documents (but not the personalised Form of Proxy or Form of Direction), as soon as possible, to the purchaser or the transferee or to the person 
through whom the sale or transfer was effected for transmission to the purchaser or the transferee.
CONTENTS
This document contains:
Page
Part A Letter from the Chairman
1
Part B Notice of the AGM
3
Part C Explanatory notes to the Notice of the AGM
6
Part D Administrative notes relating to the AGM
10
Part E Definitions
14
EXPECTED TIMETABLE OF PRINCIPAL EVENTS 2018
Latest time for receipt of Forms of Direction from SIP participants to be valid at the AGM
11.30am on 20 April
Latest time for receipt of Forms of Proxy and CREST proxy instructions to be valid at the AGM
11.30am on 23 April
AGM
11.30am on 25 April
Ordinary shares marked ex-final dividend
19 April
Record date for entitlement to the final dividend
20 April
Despatch of the final dividend warrants and tax vouchers
10 May
Payment date for the final dividend
11 May
CONTENTS AND EXPECTED TIMETABLE 
OF PRINCIPAL EVENTS 2018
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 01
Registered Office: 
Drax Power Station  
Selby  
North Yorkshire  
YO8 8PH  
Registered in England and Wales  
Number 5562053
Directors
Philip Cox CBE (Chairman)
Will Gardiner (Group Chief Executive Officer)
Tim Cobbold
Nicola Hodson
Andy Koss
David Lindsell
David Nussbaum 
Tony Thorne
20 March 2018
To: Shareholders and participants in the Drax Group plc Approved Share Incentive Plan
For information only to: Participants in the Drax Group plc Sharesave Plan, the Drax Bonus Matching Plan and the Drax Performance Share Plan.
Dear Shareholder,
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (“AGM”) AND ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS
I am pleased to enclose the Notice of the AGM of Drax Group plc (the Company or Drax). A copy of the Company’s Annual report and accounts for 
the year ended 31 December 2017 is enclosed, if you have requested to receive it, and is available on the Company’s website at www.drax.com. 
The AGM will be held at 11.30am on Wednesday 25 April 2018 at The Grand Hotel & Spa, Station Rise, York YO1 6GD.
Notice of the AGM
The Notice of the AGM is set out in Part B on pages 3 to 5 of this document.
Explanatory notes
The explanatory notes to the Resolutions set out in the Notice of the AGM are in Part C on pages 6 to 9 of this document. There will also be an 
opportunity for shareholders to ask questions appropriate to the business of the AGM at the meeting.
Final dividend
The Board is proposing the payment of a final dividend of 7.4 pence per ordinary share.
Share buy back
The Board has agreed to undertake a £50 million share buy back programme to return cash to our shareholders.
Action to be taken
Ordinary shareholders
Whether or not you propose to attend the AGM, you are requested to:
(a) complete and sign the enclosed Form of Proxy in accordance with the instructions printed thereon. Completed Forms of Proxy should be 
returned to Equiniti Limited, Proxy Department, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA as soon as possible and in any 
event so as to be received by Equiniti Limited no later than 11.30am on 23 April 2018; or
(b) register the appointment of your proxy electronically via the internet at www.sharevote.co.uk, where full instructions are given. Please note 
that the personalised numbers printed at the top of the Form of Proxy will be required and instructions must be received by no later than 
11.30am on 23 April 2018.
If you hold shares in CREST you may appoint a proxy by completing and transmitting a CREST proxy instruction to Equiniti Limited  
(CREST participant ID RA19) so that it is received by no later than 11.30am on 23 April 2018.
PART A
LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN
02
LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN CONTINUED
The return of a completed Form of Proxy or CREST proxy instruction will not prevent you from attending the AGM and voting in person if you wish 
to do so.
SIP participants
You are unable to attend the meeting unless you hold shares registered in your own name.
SIP participants are requested to:
(a) complete and sign the enclosed Form of Direction in order to instruct Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited how you would like them to vote on 
your behalf. Completed Forms of Direction should be returned to Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 
6DA as soon as possible and in any event so as to be received by Equiniti Limited no later than 11.30am on 20 April 2018; or
(b) register their votes electronically via the internet at www. sharevote.co.uk. Please note that the personalised numbers printed at the top of 
the Form of Direction will be required to register your vote online and instructions must be received by no later than 11.30am on 20 April 2018.
If you are a SIP participant and you also own shares in your own right, then you will need to complete both the Form of Direction and the Form of 
Proxy and submit them both, either online or by post.
Voting arrangements
Voting on each of the Resolutions to be put to the AGM will be by poll, rather than on a show of hands, so that all votes are included whether or not 
the shareholder is able to attend the meeting. The Board believes this to be the most democratic procedure for voting on the Resolutions as 
member votes will be counted according to the number of shares held.
The results of the voting at the meeting and the number of proxy votes cast for and against and the number of votes actively withheld in respect 
of each of the Resolutions proposed at the meeting will be announced to the London Stock Exchange as soon as practicable following the 
meeting and will also appear on the Company’s website www.drax.com.
The Company has included on the Form of Proxy, and the Form of Direction, a ‘Vote withheld” option in order for shareholders to abstain from 
voting on any particular Resolution. However, an abstention is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of 
votes “For” or “Against” the relevant Resolution.
Recommendation
The directors of the Company consider that the Resolutions to be put to the AGM are in the best interests of the Company and its members as a whole.
Accordingly, the directors unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of all the proposed Resolutions as they intend to do so in respect of 
their own beneficial interests.
Yours sincerely
Philip Cox CBE
Chairman
20 March 2018
LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN CONTINUED
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 03
PART B
NOTICE OF THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting (AGM) of Drax Group plc (the Company) will be held at 11.30am on Wednesday 25 April 
2018 at The Grand Hotel & Spa, Station Rise, York YO1 6GD.
Ordinary business
To consider and, if thought fit, pass Resolutions 1 to 16 as ordinary resolutions.
1. 
To receive the Annual report and the audited accounts of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2017, including (i) the directors’ 
report; (ii) the directors’ remuneration report (iii) the strategic report; and (iv) the report of the auditor of the Company on those audited 
accounts and the auditable part of the directors’ remuneration report.
2. To approve the directors’ remuneration policy set out on pages 87 to 96 of the Annual report and accounts.
3. To approve the annual statement to shareholders by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and the annual report on remuneration 
for the year ended 31 December 2017 set out on pages 82 to 84 and 97 to 107, respectively, of the Annual report and accounts.
4. To declare the final dividend of 7.4 pence per share for the year ended 31 December 2017.
5. To elect Nicola Hodson as a director of the Company.
6. To elect David Nussbaum as a director of the Company.
7. 
To re-elect Tim Cobbold as a director of the Company.
8. To re-elect Philip Cox as a director of the Company.
9. To re-elect Will Gardiner as a director of the Company.
10. To re-elect Andy Koss as a director of the Company.
11. To re-elect David Lindsell as a director of the Company.
12. To re-elect Tony Thorne as a director of the Company.
13. To reappoint Deloitte LLP as auditor of the Company to hold office from the conclusion of the meeting until the conclusion of the next 
meeting at which accounts are laid before the meeting.
14. To authorise the directors to determine the auditor’s remuneration.
Special business
To consider and, if thought fit, pass Resolutions 15 and 16 as ordinary resolutions and Resolutions 17 to 19 as special resolutions.
15. That in accordance with Sections 366 and 367 of the CA 2006, the Company and all of the companies that are or become subsidiaries of the 
Company from time to time during the period for which this Resolution is effective are authorised, in aggregate:
a. to make political donations to political parties and/or independent election candidates, as defined in Sections 363 and 364 CA 2006, not 
exceeding £50,000 in total; and/or
b. to make political donations to political organisations other than political parties, as defined in Sections 363 and 364 CA 2006, not 
exceeding £50,000 in total; and/or
c. to incur political expenditure, as defined in Section 365 CA 2006, not exceeding £100,000 in total, and in each case during the period 
beginning with the date of the passing of this Resolution and ending at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company or, if earlier, on 
30 June 2019.
04
16. That in substitution for all subsisting authorities, to the extent unused, the directors be and they are hereby generally and unconditionally 
authorised in accordance with Section 551 CA 2006 to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot shares in the Company and to grant 
rights to subscribe for, or to convert any security into, shares in the Company:
a. up to an aggregate nominal amount of £15,673,150 (such amount to be reduced by the nominal amount of any equity securities as 
defined in Section 560 CA 2006) allotted or granted under paragraph (b) of this Resolution in excess of £15,673,150); and
b. comprising equity securities (within the meaning of Section 560 CA 2006) up to an aggregate nominal amount of £31,346,300 (such 
amount to be reduced by the aggregate nominal amount of any shares allotted or rights granted under paragraph (a) of this Resolution) 
in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue:
I. 
to ordinary shareholders in proportion (as nearly as may be practicable) to their existing holdings; and
II. to holders of other equity securities as required by the rights of those securities or as the directors otherwise consider necessary, and 
so that the directors may impose any limits or restrictions and make any arrangements which they consider necessary or appropriate 
to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements or securities represented by depositary receipts, record dates, legal, regulatory or 
practical problems in, or under the laws of, any territory or the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange or any other 
matter.
 
The authorities conferred on the directors under paragraphs (a) and (b) above shall expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company 
after the passing of this Resolution or 30 June 2019, whichever is the earlier, save that under each authority the Company may, before such 
expiry, make an offer or agreement which would or might require shares to be allotted or rights to subscribe for, or to convert any security into, 
shares to be granted after such expiry and the directors may allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for, or to convert any security into, shares 
(as the case may be) in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the relevant authority conferred hereby had not expired.
17. That subject to the passing of Resolution 16 above and in substitution for all subsisting authorities, to the extent unused, the directors be and 
they are hereby empowered pursuant to Section 570 and Section 573 CA 2006 to allot equity securities (within the meaning of Section 560 
CA 2006) for cash either pursuant to the authority conferred by Resolution 16 or by way of a sale of treasury shares, as if Section 561(1) CA 
2006 did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power:
a. shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer of equity securities (but in the case of the authority 
granted under paragraph (b) of Resolution 16, by way of a rights issue only):
I. 
to ordinary shareholders in proportion (as nearly as may be practicable) to their existing holdings; and
II. to holders of other equity securities as required by the rights of those securities or as the directors otherwise consider necessary,
 
and so that the directors may impose any limits or restrictions and make any arrangements which they consider necessary or appropriate 
to deal with any treasury shares, fractional entitlements or securities represented by depositary receipts, record dates, legal, regulatory or 
practical problems in, or under the laws of, any territory or the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange or any other matter; 
and
b. in the case of the authority granted under paragraph (a) of Resolution 16 and/or in the case of any sale or transfer of treasury shares 
which is treated as an allotment of equity securities under Section 560(3) CA 2006, shall be limited to the allotment (otherwise than 
under paragraph (a) of this Resolution 17) of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of £2,350,973.
The powers conferred under paragraphs (a) and (b) above shall expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company after the passing of this 
Resolution or 30 June 2019, whichever is the earlier, save that the Company may, before such expiry, make an offer or agreement which would or 
might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such offer or 
agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
NOTICE OF THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING CONTINUED
NOTICE OF THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING CONTINUED
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 05
NOTICE OF THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING CONTINUED
18. That the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of Section 701 CA 2006, to make market 
purchases (within the meaning of Section 693(4) CA 2006) of ordinary shares of 11 16/29 pence each in the capital of the Company (ordinary 
shares) on such terms and in such manner as the directors of the Company shall from time to time determine, provided that:
a. the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 40,703,490;
b. the minimum price (exclusive of expenses) which may be paid for an ordinary share is its nominal value;
c. the maximum price (exclusive of expenses) which may be paid for an ordinary share is not more than the higher of:
(i) an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations of an ordinary share (as derived from the London Stock 
Exchange Daily Official List) for the five business days immediately preceding the date on which that ordinary share is contracted to 
be purchased; and
(ii) the amount stipulated by Article 5(6) of the Market Abuse Regulation (EU) No 596/2014.
d. the authority hereby conferred shall expire on 30 June 2019 or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company following the 
passing of this Resolution, unless previously revoked, varied or renewed by the Company in general meeting; and
e. the Company may at any time prior to the expiry of such authority enter into a contract or contracts under which a purchase of ordinary 
shares under such authority will or might be completed or executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and the 
Company may purchase ordinary shares in pursuance of any such contract or contracts as if the authority conferred hereby had not 
expired.
19. That a general meeting of the Company, other than an AGM, may be called on not less than 14 clear days’ notice.
By order of the Board
DAVID MCCALLUM
Group Company Secretary
Drax Group plc, Drax Power Station, Selby, North Yorkshire YO8 8PH
20 March 2018
06
PART C
EXPLANATORY NOTES TO THE NOTICE OF THE AGM
Resolution 1
To receive and adopt the Company’s Annual report and accounts 
The directors are required to present to the meeting the Annual report and accounts for the financial year ended 31 December 2017. This includes 
(i) the audited accounts (ii) the directors’ report; (iii) the directors’ remuneration report; (iv) the strategic report; and (v) the report of the auditor of 
the Company on the audited accounts and the auditable part of the directors’ remuneration report. Resolution 1 seeks shareholder approval to 
receive and adopt the Company’s Annual report and accounts.
Resolutions 2 and 3
Directors’ remuneration report
These resolutions seek shareholder approval for the directors’ remuneration policy, the annual statement to shareholders by the Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee and the annual report on remuneration, which together form the directors’ remuneration report. The directors’ 
remuneration report can be found on pages 81 to 107 of the Annual report and accounts.
The proposed changes to the current directors’ remuneration policy, approved at the 2017 AGM are:
– 
removal of the personal performance component of the bonus formula such that the formula moves from “target bonus x corporate score x 
personal score” to “target bonus x corporate score”. In future, bonuses will be earned solely for the delivery of stretching corporate and 
divisional related financial, strategic and operational targets, as measured through the Corporate Scorecard; and
– 
raising the level of Corporate Scorecard performance which must be attained for maximum bonus pay out (i.e. from maximum bonus pay out 
at a score of “1.5 x target bonus” to “2 x target bonus”) thereby strengthening the link between corporate performance and incentive pay outs. 
The rigour in setting and scoring the Corporate Scorecard will not be changed. The proposed changes toughen the operation of bonus 
arrangements as the executives’ personal score in recent years has had the effect of increasing the bonus outcome from what would have been 
earned through the Corporate Scorecard alone and they simplify the remuneration arrangements for the executive directors as well as aligning 
the approach to bonus for all employees. 
The relevant regulations specify that any amendment to the existing directors’ remuneration policy requires shareholders to approve a new policy 
and therefore Resolution 2 seeks shareholder approval for the new directors’ remuneration policy, which can be found on pages 87 to 96 of the 
Annual report and accounts. Normally a new policy would be binding on the Group for three years but, the Remuneration Committee intends to 
review the policy in 2019 and incorporate the results of this review in a policy to be presented to shareholders at the 2020 AGM. Therefore the 
results of the of the 2018 vote on the revised policy will be binding for two years until the close of the 2020 AGM. The directors’ remuneration 
policy sets out the Company’s future policy on directors’ remuneration, including the setting of the directors’ pay and the granting of share 
awards. Details on how the policy will be applied in practice, following the 2018 AGM, are set out in the annual report on remuneration on pages 
97 to 107 of the Annual report and accounts.
The Remuneration Committee believes that the proposed changes strengthen the alignment of executive remuneration with delivery of the 
business strategy and shareholder value.
If Resolution 2 is approved the effective date of the directors’ remuneration policy will be 25 April 2018 i.e. immediately following the 2018 AGM. If 
shareholders do not approve the proposed revised directors’ remuneration policy for any reason, the Company will, to the extent permitted by the 
C A 2006, continue to make payments to directors and former directors (in their capacity as directors) under the existing directors’ remuneration 
policy approved on 13 April 2017 and will seek shareholder approval for a revised policy by the 2019 AGM.
If the directors’ remuneration policy is approved (and once it commences), all payments by the Company to directors and any former directors (in 
their capacity as directors) will be made in accordance with the policy (unless a payment has separately been approved by a shareholder 
resolution). Payments will continue to be made to directors and former directors (in their capacity as directors) pursuant to commitments under 
the previous directors’ remuneration policies approved at the 2014 and 2017 AGMs (as well as commitments made before that date). 
Additionally, if the directors’ remuneration policy is approved and remains unchanged, it will be valid for up to two financial years without further 
shareholder approval being required. If the Company wished to change the directors’ remuneration policy, it would need to put the revised policy 
to a vote again, before it could implement that new policy.
Resolution 3 seeks shareholder approval for the annual statement to shareholders by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and the 
annual report on remuneration which can be found on pages 82 to 107 of the Annual report and accounts. The annual report on remuneration 
gives details of the implementation of the Company’s existing directors’ remuneration policy in terms of the payments and share awards made to 
the directors in connection with their performance and that of the Company during the year ended 31 December 2017. This vote is advisory and 
will not affect the way in which the directors’ remuneration policy has been implemented.
The Company’s auditor during the year, Deloitte LLP, has audited those parts of the directors’ remuneration report that are required to be audited 
and their report may be found on pages 112 to 118 of the Annual report and accounts.
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 07
Resolution 4
To approve the final dividend
Resolution 4 seeks shareholder approval to declare the final dividend of 7.4 pence per ordinary share, which is recommended by the directors for 
payment to shareholders on the register of members of the Company at 4.30pm on 20 April 2018. If approved by shareholders at the AGM, the 
final dividend will be paid on 11 May 2018.
Resolutions 5 to 12
To elect and re-elect the directors
The Company’s Articles of Association require that all directors retire at least every three years and that all newly-appointed directors retire at the 
first AGM following their appointment. However, and in accordance with the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the 
directors have resolved that they will all retire and that those wishing to serve again shall submit themselves for re-election by the shareholders. 
Accordingly, each of the directors will retire at the forthcoming AGM and, being eligible, each will offer themselves for election or re-election 
through separate Resolutions numbered 5 to 12. Each of the director’s biographical notes are set out on pages 58 to 59 of the Annual report 
and accounts.
The Board has determined that, in its judgement, all of the non-executive directors being proposed for election or re-election meet the 
independence criteria prescribed in the UK Corporate Governance Code as all are independent in character and judgement and there are no 
relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, their judgement. The Board recognises that in view of the 
characteristics of independence set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, length of service is an important factor when considering the 
independence of non-executive directors and that directors having served for longer than nine years may not be considered independent. In 
November 2017 David Lindsell was re-appointed for a fourth time until the 2019 AGM. The Board recognises the depth of experience brought by 
David Lindsell and is satisfied that his judgement has remained wholly independent and that he has consistently displayed all of the behaviours 
expected of our independent non-executive directors. 
During the year, the Board completed an annual evaluation of its performance and that of its Committees and individual directors. Following that 
evaluation, the Chairman is satisfied that the performance of each director standing for re-election continues to be effective and that each 
director continues to demonstrate commitment to the role. More information about these matters can be found on page 72 of the Annual report 
and accounts.
Resolutions 13 and 14
Reappointment of auditor and determination of their remuneration
The Company must appoint or re-appoint the auditor at every general meeting at which accounts are presented and it is normal practice for the 
Company’s directors, acting through the Audit Committee, to be authorised to determine the auditor’s remuneration. Deloitte LLP has advised its 
willingness to continue in office as auditor of the Company.
Resolution 15
To give authority to make certain expenditure in accordance with the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000
The Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000 (the “2000 Act”) imposed restrictions on companies making donations to EU political 
organisations or incurring EU political expenditure without shareholders’ consent. It is not the policy of the Company to make donations to 
political parties and the directors have no intention of changing that policy.
However, it is possible that normal business activities and certain types of expenditure, which might not be thought to be political expenditure in 
the usual sense, could require shareholders’ consent under the 2000 Act. For example, activities such as communicating with government and 
political parties at local, national and European level, expenditure on organisations concerned with policy review, law reform and representation 
of the business community and making provisions for employees to take time off work to campaign for and hold public office could fall within the 
wide definition of EU political expenditure. In view of the broad wording adopted in the 2000 Act, and the Board’s wish to avoid any inadvertent 
infringement of it, it is seeking shareholders’ consent for the Company, and any wholly owned subsidiary company, to incur total annual 
expenditure for such purposes of not more than £200,000 in the 12-month period ending on the anniversary of the conclusion of the AGM. This 
authority will not be used to make political donations as they are normally understood; including contributions towards any general political party 
expenses or in connection with general election campaigns.
It is the intention that the Company will seek to renew this authority, if appropriate, at each subsequent AGM.
Resolution 16
Authority of directors to allot shares
The authority given to the directors to allot further shares in the capital of the Company requires the prior authorisation of the shareholders in 
general meeting under Section 551 C A2006. Upon the passing of Resolution 16 the directors will have authority (pursuant to paragraph (a) of the 
Resolution) to allot shares up to an aggregate nominal value of £15,673,150, which is approximately one-third of the current issued ordinary share 
capital as at 20 March 2018 (being the latest practicable date before the publication of this Notice). This authority will expire immediately 
following the AGM in 2019 or on 30 June 2019, whichever is the earlier.
EXPLANATORY NOTES TO THE NOTICE OF THE AGM CONTINUED
08
EXPLANATORY NOTES TO THE NOTICE OF THE AGM CONTINUED
In addition, in accordance with the Investment Association Share Capital Management Guidelines (which set out the expectations of institutional 
investors in relation to, among other things, the authority of directors to allot shares), upon the passing of Resolution 16, the directors will have 
authority (pursuant to paragraph (b) of the Resolution) to allot ordinary shares in connection with a rights issue in favour of ordinary shareholders 
up to a maximum nominal value of £31,346,300, as reduced by the nominal amount of any shares issued under paragraph (a) of Resolution 16.
This amount (before any reduction) represents approximately two-thirds of the Company’s current issued ordinary share capital as at 20 March
2018 (being the latest practicable date before the publication of this Notice). This authority will also expire immediately following the next AGM or 
on 30 June 2019, whichever is the earlier. As a result, if Resolution 16 is passed, the directors could allot shares representing up to two-thirds of its 
current issued share capital pursuant to a rights issue.
The directors will continue to seek to renew these authorities at each AGM, in accordance with current best practice from time to time. The 
directors have no current plans to exercise this authority except in connection with employee share plans.
As at 20 March 2018, being the latest practicable date before publication of this Notice, the Company held no equity securities in treasury.
Resolution 17
Disapplication of pre-emption rights
If the directors wish to exercise the authority under Resolution 16 and offer shares (or sell any shares which the Company may purchase and elect 
to hold as treasury shares) for cash, the CA 2006 requires that, unless shareholders have given specific authority for the waiver of their statutory 
pre-emption rights, the new shares must be offered first to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing shareholdings. In certain 
circumstances, it may be in the best interests of the Company to allot new shares (or to grant rights over shares) for cash without first offering 
them to existing shareholders in proportion to their holdings.
Resolution 17 would authorise the directors to do this by allowing the directors to allot shares for cash (i) by way of a rights issue (subject to 
certain exclusions), (ii) by way of an open offer or other offer of securities (not being a rights issue) in favour of existing shareholders in proportion 
to their shareholdings (subject to certain exclusions) and (iii) otherwise than under (i) or (ii), up to an aggregate nominal value of £2,350,973 which 
is equivalent to approximately 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company on 20 March 2018 (being the latest practicable date prior to 
the publication of this Notice). The Resolution also applies to the sale and re-issue of ordinary shares held as treasury shares by the Company.
If approved by the shareholders, the authority contained in Resolution 17 will expire on the earlier of the conclusion of the next AGM or on
30 June 2019. The directors intend to renew such power at successive AGMs in accordance with current best practice.
The directors have no current plans to exercise this authority except in connection with employee share plans and any scrip dividend plan (but 
they consider its grant to be appropriate in order to preserve maximum flexibility for the future).
In addition, and in line with best practice, the Company has not issued more than 7.5% of its issued share capital on a non-pre-emptive basis over 
the last three years. In accordance with the Pre-Emption Group’s Statement of Principles regarding cumulative usage of authorities, the directors 
do not intend to issue more than 7.5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company (excluding treasury shares) for cash on a non-pre- 
emptive basis in any rolling three-year period without prior consultation with shareholders.
As at 20 March 2018, being the latest practicable date before the publication of this Notice, the Company held no equity securities in treasury.
Resolution 18
To authorise the Company to purchase its own shares
Resolution 18 is to authorise the Company to buy back up to 40,703,490 ordinary shares. The authority would expire at the conclusion of the 
2019 AGM or, if earlier, on 30 June 2019. The directors intend to seek renewal of this power at subsequent AGMs in accordance with current best 
practice.
Resolution 18 specifies the maximum number of ordinary shares which may be purchased (representing 10% of the Company’s issued ordinary 
share capital as at 20 March 2018) and the maximum and minimum prices at which they may be bought, exclusive of expenses, reflecting the 
requirements of the CA 2006 and the Listing Rules.
The directors have no present intention of exercising this authority other than with a view for use in relation to the Company’s share plans 
or where it is required to conduct buy backs to return value to shareholders. This is in accordance with the Company’s announcement on 
27 February 2018 of the Company’s intention to undertake a £50 million share buy back programme consistent with the Company’s capital 
allocation policy. The granting of this authority should not be taken to imply that any ordinary shares will be purchased, other than in relation 
to the above. Except in relation to the above, no purchase of ordinary shares will be made unless it is expected that the effect will be to increase 
earnings per share and the directors consider it to be in the best interests of all shareholders.
Under the CA 2006, the Company is allowed to hold its own shares in treasury following a buy back, instead of having to cancel them. This gives 
the Company the ability to re-issue treasury shares quickly and cost-effectively (including pursuant to the authority under Resolution 16 above) 
and provides the Company with additional flexibility in the management of its capital base.
EXPLANATORY NOTES TO THE NOTICE OF THE AGM CONTINUED
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 09
EXPLANATORY NOTES TO THE NOTICE OF THE AGM CONTINUED
Such shares may be re-sold for cash but all rights attaching to them, including voting rights and any right to receive dividends, are suspended 
whilst they are held in treasury. If the directors exercise the authority conferred by Resolution 18, the Company will have the option of either 
holding in treasury or of cancelling any of its own shares purchased pursuant to this authority and will decide at the time of purchase which 
option to pursue.
The total number of options to subscribe for, and awards over, shares, outstanding at 20 March 2018, being the last practicable date before the 
publication of this Notice was 10,036,739. This represents approximately 2.47% of the issued share capital at that date. If the Company was to buy 
back the maximum number of ordinary shares permitted pursuant to this Resolution then the total number of options to subscribe for ordinary 
shares, outstanding at 20 March 2018, would represent approximately 2.74% of the reduced share capital.
Resolution 19
To allow general meetings to be held on 14 clear days’ notice in certain circumstances
Resolution 19 is a resolution to allow the Company to hold general meetings (other than AGMs) on 14 clear days’ notice. The Shareholders’ Rights 
Regulations state that the notice period required for general meetings of the Company is 21 days, unless shareholders approve a shorter notice 
period, which cannot, however, be less than 14 clear days. AGMs will continue to be held on at least 21 clear days’ notice.
In order to preserve the Company’s ability to call general meetings (other than an AGM) on 14 clear days’ notice, Resolution 19 seeks such 
approval. The shorter notice period would not be used as a matter of routine for such meetings, but only where the flexibility is merited by the 
business of the meeting and is thought to be to the advantage of shareholders as a whole.
Note that the Companies Act 2006 requires that, in order to be able to call a general meeting on less than 21 clear days’ notice, the Company must 
make a means of electronic voting available to all shareholders for that meeting. The Company provides this facility (see paragraph 11 of Part D on 
page 11 of this document for the Company’s arrangements for electronic proxy appointments).
10
PART D
ADMINISTRATIVE NOTES RELATING TO THE AGM
Entitlement to attend and vote
1. 
Pursuant to regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 (as amended) and for the purposes of Section 360B CA 2006, 
the Company specifies that only those shareholders registered on the Register at 6.30pm on the day two business days before the date of 
the meeting (the Specified Time) (or if the meeting is adjourned to a time more than 48 hours after the Specified Time, by 6.30pm on the day 
which is two business days prior to the time of the adjourned meeting) shall be entitled to attend and vote thereat in respect of the number of 
shares registered in their name at that time. If the meeting is adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the Specified Time, that time 
will also apply for the purposes of determining the entitlement of members to attend and vote (and for the purposes of determining the 
number of votes they may cast) at the adjourned meeting. Changes to the Register after the relevant deadline shall be disregarded in 
determining rights to attend and vote.
2. If you have sold or transferred all your shares, this booklet and any accompanying documents (but not the personalised Form of Proxy or Form 
of Direction) should be passed to the person through whom the sale or transfer was made for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
Appointment of proxies
3. If you are a member of the Company, at the time set out in note 1 above, you are entitled to appoint one or more proxies to exercise all or any of 
your rights to attend, speak and vote at the meeting. Completion and return of a Form of Proxy will not prevent a member from attending in 
person and voting at the meeting. If a member appoints more than one proxy to attend the meeting, each proxy must be appointed to 
exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that member.
 
If a member wishes to appoint more than one proxy and so requires additional proxy forms, the member should contact the Company’s 
Registrars, Equiniti Limited, at Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA or by using their telephone helpline service on 
0371 384 2030 from within the UK. Lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday – excluding Bank Holidays; or +44 121 415 7047 
from outside the UK.
4. A proxy does not need to be a shareholder of the Company but must attend the meeting for the member’s vote to be counted. Your proxy 
could be the Chairman, another director of the Company or another person who has agreed to attend to represent you. Details of how to 
appoint the Chairman or another person (or persons) as your proxy using the Form of Proxy are set out in the notes to the Form of Proxy. 
Appointing a proxy does not preclude you from attending the meeting and voting in person.
5. You can only appoint a proxy using the procedures set out in these notes and the notes on the Form of Proxy. A Form of Proxy is enclosed. To 
be effective, the Form of Proxy must be completed and signed and, together with the power of attorney or authority, if any, under which it is 
signed (or a duly certified copy of any such power or authority) must be lodged with the Company’s Registrars not later than 48 hours, 
excluding non-business days, before the time of the meeting or must be lodged using the CREST proxy voting services (see note 7 below). 
Return of a completed Form of Proxy will not preclude a member from attending and voting personally at the meeting.
6. In the case of joint holders, where more than one of the joint holders purports to appoint a proxy, only the appointment submitted by the most 
senior holder will be accepted. Seniority is determined by the order in which the names of the joint holders appear in the Register in respect of 
the joint holding (the first-named being deemed the most senior).
7. 
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the 
meeting and any adjournment(s) thereof utilising the procedures described in the CREST Manual (available via www.euroclear.com). CREST 
personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider(s), should 
refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider(s), who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf. In order for a proxy 
appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message (a “CREST Proxy Instruction”) must be 
properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited’s specifications and must contain the information required for 
such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
 
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously 
appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuer’s agent (Equiniti Limited CREST participant ID 
RA19) by the latest time(s) for receipt of proxy appointments specified in note 5 above. For this purpose the time of receipt will be taken to be 
the time (as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST applications Host) from which the issuer’s agent is able to 
retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST. After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed 
through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
 
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited 
does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages. Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply 
in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions. It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take (or, if the CREST member is 
a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider(s), to procure that his or her CREST sponsor or 
voting service provider(s) take(s)) such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by 
any particular time.
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 11
 
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to 
those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings www.euroclear.com.
 
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST proxy instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35(5)(a) of the Uncertificated 
Securities Regulations 2001 (as amended).
8. A vote withheld is not a vote in law, which means that the vote will not be counted in the calculation of votes for or against the Resolution. If 
you either select the “discretionary” option or if no voting indication is given, your proxy will vote or abstain from voting at his or her discretion. 
Your proxy will vote (or abstain from voting) as he or she thinks fit in relation to any other matter which is put before the meeting.
9. If the Chairman, as a result of any proxy appointments, is given discretion as to how the votes the subject of those proxies are cast and the 
voting rights in respect of those discretionary proxies, when added to the interests in the Company’s securities already held by the Chairman, 
result in the Chairman holding such number of voting rights that he has a notifiable obligation under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, 
the Chairman will make necessary notifications to the Company and the Financial Conduct Authority. As a result, any member holding 3% or 
more of the voting rights in the Company who grants the Chairman a discretionary proxy in respect of some or all of those voting rights and so 
would otherwise have a notification obligation under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, need not make a separate notification to the 
Company and the Financial Conduct Authority.
10. If you are not a member of the Company but you have been nominated by a member of the Company to enjoy information rights, you do not 
have a right to appoint any proxies under the procedures set out in this “Appointment of proxies” section. Please read the section “Nominated 
persons” below.
Appointment of proxy electronically
11. Alternatively, members may register the appointment of a proxy for the meeting electronically by accessing the website www.sharevote. co.uk 
where full details of the procedure are given. This website is operated by the Company’s Registrars.
 
The proxy appointment and any power of attorney or other authority under which the proxy appointment is made must be received by the 
Company’s Registrars not less than 48 hours, excluding non-business days, before the time for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting or 
(in the case of a poll taken otherwise than at or on the same day as the meeting or adjourned meeting) for the taking of the poll at which it is 
to be used. Please note that any electronic communication sent to the Company or to the Company’s Registrars that is found to contain a 
computer virus will not be accepted. The use of the internet service in connection with the AGM is governed by the Company’s Registrars’ 
conditions of use set out on the Sharevote website, www.sharevote.co.uk, and may be read by logging on to that site. If you want to appoint 
more than one proxy electronically please contact the Company’s Registrars on 0371 384 2030 from within the UK. Lines are open from 
8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday – excluding Bank Holidays; or +44 121 415 7047 from outside the UK.
Website giving information regarding the meeting
12. A copy of this Notice and other information required by Section 311A CA 2006 can be found on the Company’s website www.drax.com.
Changing proxy instructions
13. To change your proxy instructions simply submit a new proxy appointment. You will need to request a new Form of Proxy from the Company’s 
Registrars, Equiniti Limited, by contacting them at Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA or by using their telephone 
helpline service on 0371 384 2030 from within the UK. Lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday – excluding Bank Holidays; 
or +44 121 415 7047 from outside the UK. Note that the cut-off time for receipt of Forms of Proxy (see note 5 above) also applies in relation to 
amended instructions; any amended proxy appointment received after the relevant cut-off time will be disregarded and you will be required 
to vote at the meeting, if you wish to change your vote.
14. If you submit more than one valid proxy appointment in respect of a single share, the appointment received last before the latest time for the 
receipt of proxies will take precedence.
Nominated persons
15. Any person receiving a copy of this Notice of Meeting as a person nominated by a member to enjoy information rights under Section 146 of 
the CA 2006 (CA 2006) (a Nominated Person) should note that the provisions in this Notice concerning the appointment of a proxy or proxies 
to attend the meeting in place of a member, do not apply to a Nominated Person as only shareholders have the right to appoint a proxy. 
However, a Nominated Person may have a right under an agreement between the Nominated Person and the member by whom he or she 
was nominated to be appointed, or to have someone else appointed, as a proxy for the meeting. If a Nominated Person has no such proxy 
appointment right, or does not wish to exercise it, he or she may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the member as 
to the exercise of voting rights at the meeting. If you are a person who has been nominated under Section 146 of CA 2006 to enjoy 
information rights:
• 
you may have a right under an agreement between you and the member of the Company who has nominated you to have information 
rights (Relevant Member) to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the meeting; and
 
ADMINISTRATIVE NOTES RELATING TO THE AGM CONTINUED
12
• 
if you either do not have such a right or if you have such a right but do not wish to exercise it, you may have a right under an agreement 
between you and the Relevant Member to give instructions to the Relevant Member as to the exercise of voting rights. Nominated 
Persons should also remember that their main point of contact in terms of their investment in the Company remains the member who 
nominated the Nominated Person to enjoy information rights (or, perhaps the custodian or broker who administers the investment on 
their behalf). Nominated Persons should continue to contact that member, custodian or broker (and not the Company) regarding any 
changes or queries relating to the Nominated Person’s personal details and interest in the Company (including any administrative matter). 
The only exception to this is where the Company expressly requests a response from a Nominated Person.
Voting
16. Voting on each of the Resolutions to be put to the AGM will be by poll, rather than a show of hands, so that all shares voted are included, 
whether or not the shareholder is able to attend the meeting. The Board believes this to be the most democratic procedure for voting on 
resolutions as member votes will be counted according to the number of shares held.
 
The results of the voting at the meeting and the number of proxy votes cast for and against and the number of votes actively abstained in 
respect of each of the Resolutions proposed at the meeting will be announced to the London Stock Exchange as soon as practicable 
following the meeting and also will be published on the Company’s website www.drax.com.
Issued shares and total voting rights
17. As at 20 March 2018, being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this Notice, the Company’s issued share capital comprised 
407,034,896 ordinary shares of 11 16/29 pence each. Each ordinary share carries the right to one vote at a general meeting of the Company 
and, therefore, the total number of voting rights in the Company is the same as the number of shares in issue. The Company does not hold any 
shares in treasury.
18. This Notice, together with information about the total numbers of shares in the Company in respect of which members are entitled to 
exercise voting rights at the meeting as at 20 March 2018, being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this Notice and, if 
applicable, any members’ statements, members’ resolutions or members’ matters of business received by the Company after the date of this 
Notice, will be available on the Company’s website www.drax.com.
Website publication of audit concerns
19. Under Section 527 CA 2006, members meeting the threshold requirements set out in that Section have the right to require the Company to 
publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to the audit of the Company’s accounts (including the auditor’s report and 
the conduct of the audit) that are to be laid before the meeting; or any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to 
hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with Section 437 CA 2006.
 
The Company may not require the members requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with Sections 527 or 
528 CA 2006. Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under Section 527 CA 2006, it must forward the statement 
to the Company’s auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website. The business which may be dealt 
with at the meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required under Section 527 CA 2006 to publish on a website.
Corporate representatives
20. Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a 
member provided that it does not do so in relation to the same shares.
Questions at the meeting
21. Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask questions. The Company must cause to be answered any question relating to the 
business being dealt with at the meeting put by a member attending the meeting. However, members should note that no answer need be 
given in the following circumstances:
• 
if to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation of the meeting or would involve a disclosure of confidential information;
• 
if the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question; or
• 
if it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
Electronic address
22. Any electronic address provided either in this Notice or in any related documents (including the Form of Proxy) may not be used to 
communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
ADMINISTRATIVE NOTES RELATING TO THE AGM CONTINUED
ADMINISTRATIVE NOTES RELATING TO THE AGM CONTINUED
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 13
Meeting arrangements
23. The doors of the AGM venue will open at 10.30am and the AGM will start promptly at 11.30am. Please bring the Attendance Card which is 
attached to the Form of Proxy with you if you attend the meeting. It will authenticate your right to attend, speak and vote and will speed up 
your admission to the meeting.
24. You may be asked to provide proof of identity, as well as your attendance card from your Form of Proxy. If you do not have your attendance 
card, you may be asked to provide two forms of identity (which may require photo identity and verification of your address). If you have been 
appointed as proxy for a shareholder entitled to vote, please let the admission staff know. You should bring proof of identity with you and you 
will be asked to confirm the details of the shareholder you are representing.
Documents available for inspection
25. A copy of each of the executive directors’ service contracts and the non-executive directors’ appointment letters and conditions of 
appointment will be available for inspection at the Company’s registered office and at the AGM venue for at least 15 minutes before the AGM. 
General enquiries
26. If you have any queries about voting or about your shareholding you can contact Equiniti Limited, who maintain the Register as follows:
• 
by using their telephone helpline service:
• 
from within the UK on 0371 384 2030; or
• 
from outside the UK on +44 121 415 7047; or
• 
by writing to them at Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA.
• 
the helpline for SIP participants is: UK 0871 384 2040, Overseas +44 121 415 7161.
 
The telephone helpline service will be available between 8.30am and 5.30pm Monday to Friday – excluding Bank Holidays.
 
The telephone helpline service will not be able to provide legal, financial or personal taxation advice. Calls may be recorded and randomly 
monitored for security and training purposes.
ADMINISTRATIVE NOTES RELATING TO THE AGM CONTINUED
14
PART E
DEFINITIONS
The following definitions apply throughout this document and in the accompanying Form of Proxy (or in the case of SIP participants, the Form of 
Direction), unless the context requires otherwise:
“Annual General Meeting” or “AGM” or “meeting”
the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held at 11.30am on 25 April 2018 
(and any adjournment thereof)
“Articles of Association”
the current Articles of Association of the Company as at the date of this Notice
“Board” or “directors”
the directors of Drax Group plc
“CA 2006”
Companies Act 2006
“Company” or “Drax”
Drax Group plc
“Company’s Registrars”
Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA
“CREST”
the relevant systems (as defined in the CREST Regulations) in respect of which 
Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited is the Operator (as defined in such regulations)
“CREST Regulations”
the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 (SI 2001 No. 3755)
“Form of Direction”
the form enclosed with this document specifically for SIP participants, who may then 
use it to instruct the Trustee how to vote on resolutions to be put to the AGM
“Form of Proxy”
the proxy form enclosed with this document for use by shareholders to vote on 
resolutions to be put to the AGM
“London Stock Exchange”
London Stock Exchange plc
“LTIP”
Long Term Incentive Plan
“Official List”
the official list of the UK Listing Authority
“ordinary shares”
ordinary shares of 11 16/29 pence each in the capital of the Company
“Register”
the register of members of the Company
”Resolutions”
the resolutions set out in the notice convening the AGM
“shareholders”
holders of ordinary shares
“share plans”
the SIP, the Drax Group plc Sharesave Plan, the Drax Bonus Matching Plan and the Drax 
Group plc US Employee Stock Purchase Plan
“SIP”
the Drax Group Approved Share Incentive Plan
“Trustee”
Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited as trustee of the SIP
“UK Listing Authority”
the Financial Conduct Authority acting in its capacity as the competent authority for 
the purposes of Part VI of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000
“UK”
the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland
 
