Chapter 10
Geology, Ground Conditions and
Hydrogeology
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 10: GEOLOGY, GROUND CONDITIONS AND HYDROGEOLOGY 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
10-1 
 
CONTENTS 
10. Geology, Ground Conditions and Hydrogeology ................................................ 2 
10.1 Introduction ............................................................................................... 2 
10.2 Changes since the 2014 PEIR .................................................................. 2 
10.3 Legislation, policy and guidance................................................................ 3 
10.4 Methodology .............................................................................................. 7 
10.5 Baseline Environment ............................................................................. 14 
10.6 Embedded Mitigation ............................................................................... 31 
10.7 Assessment of Effects ............................................................................. 31 
10.8 Additional Mitigation Measures................................................................ 53 
10.9 Residual Effects ...................................................................................... 53 
10.10 Cumulative Effects ................................................................................. 53 
10.11 References ............................................................................................ 54 
 
TABLES 
Table 10-1: A Summary of Changes since the 2014 PEIR to the Geology, Ground 
Conditions and Hydrogeology Assessment ................................................................ 3 
Table 10-2: Summary of Consultation Responses ..................................................... 9 
Table 10-3: Sensitivity of Geology, Ground Conditions and Hydrogeology Receptors12 
Table 10-4: Geology, Ground Conditions and Hydrogeology Magnitude Assessment Criteria
 ................................................................................................................................. 13 
Table 10-5: Classification of Effects ......................................................................... 14 
Table 10-6: Significance Criteria Definitions ............................................................. 14 
Table 10-7: Recorded Opencast and Underground Mines ....................................... 17 
Table 10-8: Geological Hazards ............................................................................... 18 
Table 10-9: Historical Development .......................................................................... 23 
Table 10-10: Land Uses and Potentially Present Contaminant Groups .................... 26 
Table 10-11: Preliminary Conceptual Site Model ...................................................... 28 
Table 10-12: Summary of Potential Impacts during the Construction Phase ............ 37 
Table 10-13: Summary of Potential Impacts during the Operation Phases of the Project 43 
Table 10-14: Summary of Potential Impacts Following Decommissioning ............... 50 
 
FIGURES 
Figure 10.1: UDP Mineral Resources Plan  
Figure 10.2: Mine Abandonment Plan  
Figure 10.3: Potential Sources of Contamination and Locations of Interest  
 
APPENDICES 
Appendix 10.1: Preliminary Geo-Environmental Risk Assessment. March 2015.  
Appendix 
10.2: 
Landmark 
Information 
Group 
Envirocheck 
Report 
(Reference 
142844199_1_1 - Dated 13 October 2017). 
Appendix 10.3: British Geological Survey Borehole Log SN65200160 Aber-gelli-fach Farm 
Appendix 10.4: Coal Authority Mining Report 
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 10: GEOLOGY, GROUND CONDITIONS AND HYDROGEOLOGY 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
10-2 
 
10. 
Geology, Ground Conditions and Hydrogeology  
10.1 
Introduction 
10.1.1 This chapter presents the geology and ground conditions impact assessment 
undertaken for this PEIR, and provides a description of the geology, ground 
conditions and hydrogeology within, and also in the immediate vicinity of, the 
Project Site.  
10.1.2 This chapter also provides details of the geological conditions and the presence of 
potentially contaminated land and hazardous materials. The effects of the Project 
on the ground conditions and of constraints posed by the existing ground 
conditions on the Project are considered for the construction, operational and 
decommissioning phases of the Project. Where appropriate, mitigation measures 
are presented to minimise the effects of actual or predicted adverse effects. 
10.1.3 Data used within this chapter includes that presented within the Preliminary Geo-
environmental Risk Assessment (Appendix. 10.1).  
10.1.4 This chapter has been updated in response to the change in Project design and the 
potential effects on existing ground conditions.  
a) Objectives of the assessment 
10.1.5 The objectives of the assessment were to describe: 
 The legislation, policy and guidance which have been taken into account in the 
assessment; 
 The assessment methodology, including the consultation outcomes which have 
informed the assessment; 
 Baseline conditions currently existing at the Project Site and in the surrounding 
study area; 
 The likely significant effects of the Project (including the embedded mitigation 
and 
avoidance 
measures) 
during 
the 
construction, 
operation 
and 
decommissioning phases; 
 The additional mitigation required to prevent, reduce or offset any significant 
adverse effects; and, 
 The likely residual effects and cumulative effects after these measures have 
been employed. 
 This PEIR assesses the development for which development consent is 
proposed to be sought, the Power Generation Plant, the Electrical Connection, 
the Gas Connection and the Project. 
10.2 
Changes since the 2014 PEIR 
10.2.1 There have been changes to the design as a result of design evolution and 
consultation as detailed in Chapter 3: Project and Site Description. To aid the 
reader, Table 10-1 outlines the changes to this assessment compared with the 
2014 PIER.  
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 10: GEOLOGY, GROUND CONDITIONS AND HYDROGEOLOGY 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
10-3 
 
Table 10-1: A Summary of Changes since the 2014 PEIR to the Geology, Ground Conditions and 
Hydrogeology Assessment 
Section 
Changes since the 2014 PEIR 
Section 
Reference 
Methodology 
Greater detail regarding the sensitivity and 
magnitude has been incorporated into the text  
Section 10.4 
Baseline 
An updated Envirocheck Report has been used 
to allow that the most up to date information to 
be used in the assessment  
Section 10.5 
Assessment of Effects 
More extensive embedded mitigation measures 
have been incorporated into the design have 
reduced the presence of significant effects.  
Section 10.7 
10.3 
Legislation, policy and guidance  
10.3.1 Legislation and policy has been considered on an international, national, regional 
and local level. The following is considered to be relevant to the geology, ground 
conditions and hydrogeology effects assessment as it has influenced the sensitivity 
of receptors and requirements for mitigation or the scope and/or methodology of 
the EIA. 
a) International and EU 
 Directive 2010/75/EU on 24th November 2010 on industrial emissions 
(integrated pollution prevention and control), the Industrial Emissions Directive 
(IED) (Ref. 10.2).  The IED is implemented in Wales by the Environmental 
Permitting (England and Wales) Regulations 2016; 
 Water Framework Directive (WFD) 2000/60/EC aims to ensure that all surface 
water and groundwater reaches ‘good’ status (in terms of ecological and 
chemical quality and water quantity as appropriate), promotes sustainable 
water use, reduce pollution and contribute to the mitigation of flood and 
droughts (Ref. 10.3).  The WFD is implemented in Wales by the Water 
Environment (Water Framework Directive) (England and Wales) Regulations 
2017;  
 Groundwater Directive 2006/118/EC aims to set groundwater quality standards 
and introduce measures to prevent or limit pollutants entering groundwater, 
including those listed within the ‘List of Priority substances’ (Ref. 10.4); and 
 Seventh Environmental Action Programme came into force on 17th January 
2014 to ensure land is managed more sustainably in the European Union (EU), 
that soil is adequately protected and that the remediation of contaminated sites 
is well underway (Ref. 10.5). It also commits the EU and its Member States to 
increasing efforts to reduce soil erosion, increase soil organic matter and to 
remediate contaminated sites.  
 
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 10: GEOLOGY, GROUND CONDITIONS AND HYDROGEOLOGY 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
10-4 
 
b) National Legislation 
i. 
Environmental Protection Act 
10.3.2 The contaminated land regime in Part 2A of the Environment Protection Act (EPA) 
1990 (Ref. 10.9) was introduced to specifically address the historical legacy of land 
contamination.  Part 2A of the Environmental Protection Act 1990 has introduced 
the following statutory definition for "contaminated land": 
"any land which appears to the local authority in whose area it is situated to be in 
such a condition by reason of substances in, on, or under the land, that: 
Significant harm is being caused or there is significant possibility of such harm 
being caused; or 
Significant pollution of controlled waters is being caused, or there is a significant 
possibility of such pollution being caused." 
10.3.3 Part 2A provides a means of dealing with unacceptable risks posed by land 
contamination to human health and the environment.  Enforcing authorities are 
required to identify and deal with such land but Part 2A is only to be used by the 
Enforcing Authority where no appropriate alternative solution exists. 
10.3.4 The term 'contaminant linkage' indicates that all three elements (i.e. contaminant / 
pathway / receptor) have been identified.  The land can only be determined as 
Contaminated Land if there is a contaminant linkage and the contamination meets 
the criteria, outlined above.  
c) National Policy 
ii. Overarching National Policy Statement for Energy (NPS EN-1) 
10.3.5 The relevant assessment principles in terms of generic impacts ('Biodiversity and 
Geological Conservation' and 'Land Use including Open Space, Green 
Infrastructure and Green Belt' and 'Waste Management') from Part 5 of NPS EN-1 
(Generic Impacts) are set out below (Ref. 10.6). 
10.3.6 Paragraphs 5.10.8 to 5.10.9 of NPS EN1 state "Applicants should seek to minimise 
impacts on the best and most versatile agricultural land (defined as Grades 1, 2 
and 3a of the Agricultural Land Classification) and preferably use land in areas of 
poorer quality (Grades 3b, 4 and 5) except where this would be inconsistent with 
other sustainability considerations. Applicants should also identify any effects and 
seek to minimise impacts on soil quality taking into account any mitigation 
measures proposed. For developments on previously developed land, applicants 
should ensure that they have considered the risk posed by land contamination. 
10.3.7 Applicants should safeguard any mineral resources on the proposed site as far as 
possible, taking into account the long-term potential of the land use after any future 
decommissioning has taken place". 
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 10: GEOLOGY, GROUND CONDITIONS AND HYDROGEOLOGY 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
10-5 
 
iii. National Policy Statement for Gas Supply Infrastructure and Gas and Oil 
Pipelines (NPS EN-4)   
10.3.8 Sections 2.20 - 2.23 of NPS EN-4 (Ref. 10.7) set out additional policy for assessing 
the potential impacts of gas and oil pipelines, relating to: noise and vibration; 
biodiversity, landscape and visual; water quality and resources; and soil and 
geology. 
10.3.9 Paragraph 2.23.1 of EN-4 states that, ‘it will be important for applicants to 
understand the soil types and the nature of the underlying strata.’  Accordingly, 
applicants should consult with the relevant statutory consultees at an early stage 
regarding the potential impact of gas pipelines on soil and geology (paragraph 
2.23.4). Paragraph 2.23.2 states that applicants should assess the stability of the 
ground conditions associated with the pipeline route, including considering the 
options for installing the pipeline. 
iv. National Policy Statement for Electricity Networks Infrastructure (NPS EN-5)  
10.3.10 NPS EN-5 (Ref. 10.8) includes limited information regarding impacts on geology, 
although Paragraph 2.8.9 recognises that an underground line is likely to have 
more potential impacts on geology and soils than an overhead line. 
v. Environment Agency Guidance  
10.3.11 In April 2013, National Resources Wales (NRW) was formed from a merger of 
Environment Agency Wales, the Countryside Council for Wales and the Forestry 
Commission Wales and undertakes the environmental regulatory duties in Wales. 
However Environmental Agency guidance documents continue to be used as 
representing “best practice” in the field of land contamination. 
10.3.12 The Environment Agency’s Model Procedures for the Management of Land 
Contamination (also known as Contaminated Land Report 11 (CLR11)) (Ref. 
10.10), form the core reference guidance across the range of land contamination-
related regulatory regimes in the UK and are integral to most projects dealing with 
land contamination. The report provides a road map/ flowcharts for structured 
decision making required for the management of land affected by contamination. 
CLR11 consolidates the general approach for the assessment of land 
contamination that was introduced with the CLR in 2000. CLR11 is based on a 
phased, risk-based approach using the ‘source/ contaminant – pathway – receptor’ 
concept as the key part of a Conceptual Site Model (CSM). A contaminant linkage 
is said to exist when all three components of the model can be identified on a site. 
A contaminant is a substance which is in, on or under the land and which has the 
potential to cause harm or to cause pollution of the water environment. A receptor is 
either a living organism, a group of living organisms, an ecological system or a 
piece of property which is being, or could be, harmed, by a contaminant; or a water 
environment which is being, or could be, polluted by a contaminant. A pathway is 
one or more routes or means by, or through, which a receptor is being exposed to, 
or affected by, a contaminant, or could be so exposed or affected. CLR11 uses 
tiered risk assessment, from qualitative risk screening through to detailed 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 10: GEOLOGY, GROUND CONDITIONS AND HYDROGEOLOGY 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
10-6 
 
quantitative risk assessment, followed by remedial options appraisal and 
implementation of the agreed remediation strategy.  
10.3.13 The Environment Agency’s Guiding Principles for Land Contamination (GPLC) 
(Ref. 10.11), provide a simplified overview of the approach laid out in CLR11 for 
site/ problem holders and their professional advisors/ consultants. The aim of the 
GPLC is to clarify roles and responsibilities, encourage good practice and comply 
with or avoid the need for regulation and to provide a link to relevant advice in other 
guidance documents.  
10.3.14 NRW have adopted the Environment Agency’s approach to protecting groundwater. 
The Environment Agency’s approach to groundwater protection document (Ref 
10.12) details position statements that describe the Environment Agency’s 
approach to managing and protecting groundwater. The position statements set a 
framework which assist the Environment Agency is making decisions on 
groundwater management, including a position statement on mining induced 
pollution 
10.3.15 The following CIRIA Guidance documents are relevant:  
 Control of water pollution from construction sites (C532) (Ref. 10.13); 
 The SuDS (Sustainable Urban Drainage Systems) manual 2015 (C753) (Ref. 
10.14), and the SuDS manual 2007 (C697) (Ref. 10.15); 
 Environmental good practice on site guide (C741) (Ref. 10.16);  
 Assessing risks posed by hazardous ground gases to buildings (C665) (Ref. 
10.17); and  
 Contaminated land risk assessment - a guide to good practice (C552) (Ref. 
10.18). 
vi. Planning Policy Wales 
10.3.16 Section 4.10 of PPW (Ref. 10.19) discusses the requirement for conserving the 
best, most versatile agricultural land, as a finite resource for the future. "Land of 
grades 1, 2, and 3a should only be developed if there is an overriding need for the 
development, and either previously developed land or land in lower agricultural 
grades is unavailable, or available lower grade land has an environmental value 
recognised by a landscape, wildlife, historic or archaeological designation which 
outweighs the agricultural considerations." 
10.3.17 Section 13.5, discusses dealing with unstable and contaminated land, and how "the 
planning system should guide development to lessen the risk from natural or 
human made hazards, including risk from land instability and land contamination." 
10.3.18 Section 13.7 discusses development management and contaminated land, 
outlining what planning decisions need to take into account, "evidence of a detailed 
investigation and risk assessment prior to the determination of the application to 
enable beneficial use of the land." 
10.3.19 Section 13.9 outlines development management policies for unstable land. 
"Planning decisions need to take into account the potential hazard that instability 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 10: GEOLOGY, GROUND CONDITIONS AND HYDROGEOLOGY 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
10-7 
 
could create, and the results of a specialist investigation and assessment to 
determine the stability of the ground." 
vii. Technical Advice Note (TAN) 5: Nature Conservation and Planning 
10.3.20 TAN 5 (Ref. 10.20) provides "advice about how the land use planning system 
should contribute to protecting and enhancing biodiversity and geological 
conservation". 
d) Local 
10.3.21 The Project Site is located on land identified as 'Coal' resource, as illustrated on the 
City and County of Swansea (CCS) Unitary Development Plan (UDP) Proposals 
Map, where UDP Policy R2 applies (Ref. 10.21). Policy R2 states that development 
proposals that would affect the working of known potential resources will have to be 
accompanied by a full assessment of the potential resource and the impact of the 
proposal in terms of sterilising the resource. 
10.3.22 An area of the Gas Connection within the Project Site is located on land identified 
as 'Sand and Aggregates' resource, as illustrated on the UDP Proposals Map, 
where UDP Policy R4 applies. Policy R4 states that development proposals that 
would affect the working of known potential mineral resources will have to be 
accompanied by a full assessment of the potential mineral resource and the impact 
of the proposal in terms of sterilising the resource. These areas are shown on 
Figure 10-1. 
10.3.23 Policy 1 of the UDP states that the County's environment will be protected from 
materially harmful development and where possible enhanced. Development that 
would result in adverse environmental effects will not be permitted, particularly in 
respect of: 
 Air, noise or light pollution; 
 Flood risk; 
 The quality and quantity of water resources; 
 Land contamination; and 
 Land instability or subsidence. 
10.4 
Methodology 
a) Scope of the assessment 
10.4.1 The scope of this assessment has been determined through a formal EIA scoping 
process undertaken with the Secretary of State (SoS). Comments raised on the 
Scoping Report (Appendix 4.1) have been taken into account in the development of 
the assessment methodology and these are detailed where relevant in this chapter.   
b) Consultation 
10.4.2 The scope of the assessment has also been informed by ongoing consultation with 
statutory consultees throughout the design and assessment process, including the 
SoS, CCS, NRW, Public Health England, Coal Authority and local residents.   
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 10: GEOLOGY, GROUND CONDITIONS AND HYDROGEOLOGY 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
10-8 
 
10.4.3 A summary of the comments raised and responses are detailed in Table 10-2. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 10: GEOLOGY, GROUND CONDITIONS AND HYDROGEOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
10-9 
 
Table 10-2: Summary of Consultation Responses  
Consultee 
Date 
Comment 
Response 
Secretary 
of 
State 
(SoS) 
(Scoping 
Opinion, 
para.3.60 
Ref. 10.22) 
- 
The SoS welcomes that the foundations of the 
development will be designed so as not to present a 
preferential pathway for contaminant migration if 
present at the project site. The SoS notes that this 
consideration should be extended to other works 
forming 
part 
of 
the 
development, 
including 
underground gas and electricity connections. 
Noted. 
SoS (Scoping 
Opinion, 
para.3.61) 
- 
The SoS draws the attention of the applicant to the 
comments of the Coal Authority indicating that the 
site is in a Development High Risk Area, as the site 
has been subject to past coal mining activity and is 
located within an area of surface coal resource. 
A Coal Authority Report (see Appendix 10.4) has been 
obtained along with mine abandonment plans (see 
Figure 10.3).  
SoS (Scoping 
Opinion, 
para.3.62) 
- 
The SoS recommends that the applicant takes into 
consideration 
the 
location 
and 
stability 
of 
abandoned mine entries, the extent and stability of 
shallow mine workings, outcropping coal seams, 
unrecorded mine workings, hydrogeology, mine 
water and mine gas. 
A Coal Authority Report has been obtained along with 
mine abandonment plans which indicate the whole of 
the Project Site is overlying mine workings. Findings 
summarised in this chapter. However the depth to 
which the workings extend is unknown. This will be 
investigated as part of the future ground investigation 
works and reported in a mining risk assessment 
report, in which remedial recommendations for 
stabilising the mine workings will be identified as 
required.  The assessment assumes as a worst case 
that piling will be required for stabilisation. 
SoS (Scoping 
Opinion, 
para.3.63) 
- 
The SoS recommends that the applicant considers, 
if surface coal resources are present, whether prior 
extraction of the mineral resource is practical and 
viable. The applicant should also consider whether 
Coal Authority permission is required to intersect, 
enter, or disturb any coal or coal workings during 
site investigation or development work. 
 
A Coal Authority Report has been obtained. Findings 
summarised in Chapter 10 of this PEIR (paras 10.4.16 
to 10.4.20). There are no surface coal resources 
present. Coal Authority Permit is required. 
NRW 
22nd 
Site survey work undertaken should take into Completion of all necessary ground investigation and 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 10: GEOLOGY, GROUND CONDITIONS AND HYDROGEOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
10-10 
 
Consultee 
Date 
Comment 
Response 
 
July 
2014 
account current environmental permitting and likely 
future requirements under the Industrial Emissions 
Directive (IED) to undertake intrusive works to 
gather baseline contamination data as part of the 
environmental permitting process. 
risk assessments is identified in Chapter 3: Project as 
Site Description of this PEIR as embedded mitigation 
and will be required as part of a DCO Requirement. 
NRW 
- 
Requires information for the landfill, abstraction 
wells, discharge consents, and pollution controls or 
incidents. Ground instability should be assessed 
and the applicant should be satisfied that piling 
operations and any vibration associated with the 
construction process will not disturb the Water 
Mains that traverses the Project Site, historic mine 
workings, adits, or groundwater. 
Both landfills within the Project Site now fall outside 
NRW’s regulation. 
A contaminated land risk assessment should be 
undertaken. 
A Preliminary Geo-Environmental Risk Assessment 
(PRA) Report has been completed (Appendix 10.1) 
which presents the documentation and drawings 
provided by NRW relating to the landfill and landfill 
extension within the vicinity of the Project Site. This 
information will be used to design the ground 
investigation. 
Public Health 
England 
(PHE)  
 
23rd 
July 
2014 
PHE would expect the promoter to provide details of 
any hazardous contamination present on site 
(including ground gas) as part of the site condition 
report. 
Ground investigation works will be undertaken and to 
intersect mine workings/coal seams to provide ground 
gas monitoring and assessment. Ground gas and 
detail of hazardous contamination will be included in a 
Site Condition Report A Coal Authority permit will be 
required. 
City 
and 
County 
of 
Swansea 
Council 
(CCS) 
- 
The PEIR referred to a historic land use as an inert 
landfill and the results of the ‘comprehensive ground 
investigation work’ should be supplied to the LA. 
Take into consideration / protection of groundwater 
as there are private water abstractions in the area. 
A ground investigation will be required prior to 
development and the report will be submitted to and 
approved by CCS prior to commencement of 
development works. It is expected that this will be 
required to discharge the relevant DCO Requirement. 
Details of private abstractions have been requested 
from CCS (para 10.5.30). Clean drilling techniques will 
be used during the ground investigation to protect 
private groundwater abstractions.  
Coal 
- 
CA requested Coal Authority report and mine entry The Coal Authority provided all information requested. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 10: GEOLOGY, GROUND CONDITIONS AND HYDROGEOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
10-11 
 
Consultee 
Date 
Comment 
Response 
Authority 
(CA) 
information. 
Followed up by requesting mine abandonment 
plans. 
A permit / licence will be required for any ground 
investigation 
activities 
that 
penetrate 
the 
coal 
measures strata. If coal seams / workings are not 
encountered during the ground investigation, the Coal 
Authority may not require a permit to be issued for the 
construction works if they are not going to be 
penetrated. 
NRW 
 
14th 
Nov 
2014 
We note that there have previously been two 
landfills within the planning development boundary 
and that both sites now fall outside our regulation. 
A contaminated land risk assessment should be 
undertaken as part of the ES. You are advised to 
contact the local authority to agree the scope of the 
assessment as they are the lead authority for land 
quality. 
A preliminary contaminated land risk assessment has 
been 
completed 
(Appendix 
10.1). 
This 
report 
recommended 
that 
a 
ground 
investigation 
is 
undertaken to input into the design of the Project. The 
site investigation will form part of the embedded 
mitigation measures (See Section 10.6)  
 
NRW  
 
18th 
March 
2015 
The landfills listed in close proximity to the 
application site boundary have ceased to have a 
permit with NRW or Environment Agency Wales. 
We believe that they are likely to have been 
surrendered. We advise that you contact the City 
and County of Swansea as the lead regulator for 
land 
quality 
under 
the 
Contaminated 
Land 
Regulations as they may hold further information on 
this matter. 
None.  Data regarding the landfills is provided in the 
Envirocheck Report (Appendix 10.2) 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 10: GEOLOGY, GROUND CONDITIONS AND HYDROGEOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
10-12 
 
c) Study area 
10.4.4 An approximate 1 km search buffer has been used from the Project Site for 
purposes of relevant environmental data searches and a historical mapping review.  
This study area has been chosen for the assessment based on professional 
judgement as it is considered to incorporate all potential receptors that could be 
impacted by geology, ground conditions and hydrogeology relating to the Project 
(i.e. sensitive environments, surface water and groundwater resources, etc.) and 
activities that may impact on the Project (i.e. historical development in the 
surrounding area, potentially contaminative permitted activities, waste operations, 
etc.). 
d) Sensitivity 
10.4.5 The criteria used to assess the sensitivity of contaminated land receptors are 
presented in Table 10-43. This table is specifically for assessing the sensitivity of 
geology, ground conditions and hydrogeology receptors and complements the 
generic tables presented in Chapter 4: Approach to Environmental Impact 
Assessment.  
Table 10-3: Sensitivity of Geology, Ground Conditions and Hydrogeology Receptors 
Sensitivity of 
Receptors 
Example Receptor Definition 
 
High 
Feature of international importance, for example a Special Area of 
Conservation (SAC). Critical social or economic uses such as for water 
supply, navigation or mineral extraction.  
Groundwater is a valuable resource because of its high quality and yield; 
is designated as a Principal Aquifer and/ or is known to be extensively 
exploited for water supply.  Potable water supply source in close 
proximity.  Site within a SPZ.  Alternatively, groundwater is critical to 
designated sites of nature conservation. 
Medium 
Feature of national importance, for example a Special Area of 
Conservation (SSSI). 
High classification for water quality (i.e. A1 Excellent or A2 Good) or 
sensitive habitats of national importance. 
Groundwater is a locally valuable resource because of its moderate 
quality and/or yield is designated as a Secondary Aquifer and/or is known 
to be locally exploited for non-potable water supply. 
Low 
Feature of regional or local importance.  
Moderate water quality (i.e. B Moderate).  
Sensitive habitats of regional importance. 
Limited social or economic uses.  
Groundwater of limited value because its quality does not allow potable 
or other quality sensitive uses. Exploitation of local groundwater is not 
extensive and/or local areas of nature conservation known to be sensitive 
to groundwater impacts. 
Negligible 
Heavily modified with poor water quality (i.e. C Poor and D seriously 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 10: GEOLOGY, GROUND CONDITIONS AND HYDROGEOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
10-13 
 
Sensitivity of 
Receptors 
Example Receptor Definition 
 
Polluted). 
Minimal economic or social uses.  
Poor groundwater quality and/or very low permeabilities make 
exploitation unfeasible. Changes to groundwater flow or quality not 
expected to impact on local ecology. 
Associated habitats less than local importance. 
e) Magnitude 
10.4.6 The criteria used to assess the magnitude of effects are presented in Table 10-44. 
This table is specifically for assessing the magnitude of potential effects on 
geology, ground conditions and hydrogeology and complement the generic tables 
presented in Chapter 4: Approach to Environmental Impact Assessment. 
Table 10-4: Geology, Ground Conditions and Hydrogeology Magnitude Assessment Criteria 
Magnitude 
Description  
High 
Short term acute effect on human health affecting both Site users and users 
of sites in the vicinity, arising from contamination on the Application Site, or 
Chronic damage to human health affecting users of both the site and other 
sites in the vicinity arising from contamination on the Application Site. 
Persistent or extensive effects on water quality, closure of an abstraction, 
major damage to agriculture. 
Persistent or extensive effects to ecosystems.  
Catastrophic damage to buildings or property on or in the vicinity of the 
Application Site arising from contamination on the Application Site. 
Moderate 
Chronic damage to human health of users of the Application Site. 
Significant effect on water quality e.g. notification required to abstractors, 
significant damage to agriculture, reduction in amenity value. 
Significant damage to aquatic or other ecosystems, which may result in a 
substantial adverse change in its functioning or harm to a species of special 
interest that may endanger the long-term maintenance of the population. 
Significant damage to crops, buildings or property. 
Low 
Non-permanent effects to human health e.g. short term intermittent nuisance 
such as odours not hazardous to human health. 
Minor or short-lived damage to water quality or ecosystems, which is unlikely 
to result in a substantial adverse change in its functioning or harm to a 
species of special interest. 
Minor damage to crops, buildings or property. 
Negligible 
No observed effect on human health. 
Poor vegetation growth, choice of landscaping species restricted. 
Repairable effects of damage to buildings, structure and services e.g. 
staining or discoloration of building materials. 
No observed effects on water quality or ecosystems. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 10: GEOLOGY, GROUND CONDITIONS AND HYDROGEOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
10-14 
 
f) 
Effect definitions 
10.4.7 Table 10-5 details the matrix used for the classification of effects whilst Table 10-6 
sets out the generic significance criteria definitions.  
Table 10-5: Classification of Effects 
Magnitude 
Value and sensitivity of receptor 
High 
Medium 
Low 
Negligible 
High 
Major 
Major 
Moderate 
Moderate 
Medium 
Major 
Moderate 
Moderate 
Minor 
Low 
Moderate 
Moderate 
Minor 
Negligible 
Negligible 
Minor 
Minor 
Negligible 
Negligible 
 
10.4.8 Following the classification of an effect as detailed in Table 10.6, a clear statement 
is made as to whether the effect is ‘significant’ or ‘not significant’.  As a general rule, 
major and moderate effects are considered to be significant and minor and 
negligible effects are considered to be not significant.  However, professional 
judgement is also applied where appropriate. 
Table 10-6: Significance Criteria Definitions 
Significance 
of Effect 
Description  
Major 
Effects, both adverse and beneficial, which are likely to be 
important considerations at a national to regional level because 
they contribute to achieving national/regional objectives, or, which 
are likely to result in exceedance of statutory objectives and/or 
breaches of legislation. 
Moderate 
Effects that are likely to be important considerations at a regional 
and local level. 
Minor 
Effects that could be important considerations at a local level. 
Negligible 
An effect that is likely to have a negligible or neutral influence, 
irrespective of other effects. 
10.5 
Baseline Environment 
10.5.1 This section describes the baseline environmental characteristics for the Project 
Site and surrounding areas with specific reference to geology, ground conditions 
and hydrogeology. 
10.5.2 This assessment has been undertaken using desk based information currently 
available including the Landmark Envirocheck Report (dated October 2017 and 
presented in Appendix 10.2) and the Preliminary Geo-Environmental Risk 
Assessment for Abergelli Power Project (Appendix 10.1), and a site walkover 
undertaken in July 2014.   
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 10: GEOLOGY, GROUND CONDITIONS AND HYDROGEOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
10-15 
 
10.5.3 The ground conditions have not been assessed via an intrusive ground 
investigation. It is expected that investigation works will be required as per a DCO 
Requirement.  
a) Current  and Surrounding Land-use 
10.5.4 The land-use is predominantly agricultural, used for sheep and horse grazing 
bounded by drainage ditches, fencing and hedgerows. There are no residential 
buildings within the Project Site.  
10.5.5 A detailed description is presented in Chapter 3: Project and Site Description, 
Section 3.3.    
b) Geological information  
10.5.6 The baseline geology, ground conditions and hydrogeology data of the Project Site 
has been gathered from the following sources: 
 Landmark Information Group Envirocheck Report. Presented in  Appendix 10.2;             
 British Geological Survey (BGS) Borehole Log SN65200160 Aber-gelli-fach 
Farm - Dated 7 October 1991. Presented in Appendix 10.3;      
 Preliminary Geo-Environmental Risk Assessment from Abergelli Power Project 
(Ref. 10.1); and   
 BGS.  Digital Geological map of Great Britain at 1:50,000 scale (Ref. 10.23).                         
i. 
Made Ground 
10.5.7 There is no Made Ground indicated within the Project Site, based on published 
BGS records. Made Ground is only considered to be likely to be present an areas 
associated with previous development such as the landfill and colliery. It may also 
be present if the landowner undertook land levelling. If any Made Ground is present 
within the Project Site, its composition and provenance would be unknown.   
ii. Superficial Geology 
10.5.8 There are four types of superficial deposits identified across the Project Site 
comprising: glacial diamicton till, glaciofluvial deposits of sand and gravel, alluvium 
deposits of clay, silt, sand and gravel and quaternary peat.  
10.5.9 The glaciofluvial deposits are located along the Access Road, and areas to the 
north of the Laydown Area, while till is present on the Access Road, across the 
Laydown Site, in the western portion of the Generating Equipment Site and the 
mid-section of the Gas Connection. Alluvium deposits are located across the 
Ecological Mitigation Site and along the eastern boundary of the Generating 
Equipment Site while peat is present in the north east of the Generating Equipment 
Site and to the north west of Abergelli Farm.  
10.5.10 The BGS indicates that there are three boreholes located in the Project Site, 
however only one is available to view online and presented in Appendix 10.3.  The 
borehole log is located east of Abergelli Farm in an area mapped as being 
underlain by Devensian glaciofluvial deposits of sand and gravel. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 10: GEOLOGY, GROUND CONDITIONS AND HYDROGEOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
10-16 
 
10.5.11 The borehole log indicates superficial deposits comprising yellow brown sandy 
gravelly clay down to 6.4 metres below ground level (mbgl), overlying grey brown 
clayey gravelly sand, clayey sand and sandy clay down to 15.8 mbgl considered to 
be representative of glaciofluvial deposits. These are underlain by firm yellow clay 
becoming stiff grey gravelly clay described in the log as possible boulder clay which 
is likely to be glacial till; proven to a maximum depth of 16.8 mbgl. Traces of coal 
were identified at 10.7 mbgl within the clayey sand. 
iii. Bedrock Geology 
10.5.12 The bedrock geology underlying the Project Site consists of the Grovesend 
Formation of the South Wales Upper Coal Measures Formation, comprising 
argillaceous mudstones and siltstones, with well-developed coals, and minor lithic 
sandstones. The BGS (Ref. 10.24) indicates that the Grovesend Formation is the 
youngest unit found in the South Wales coalfield.  
10.5.13 The north eastern corner of the 1 km search buffer surrounding the Project Site is 
underlain by the Swansea Member, comprising green-grey Pennant Sandstone, 
with thin mudstone/siltstone and seatearth interbeds and (mainly thin) coals. This 
geological formation is overlain conformably by the Grovesend Formation. 
10.5.14 The geological map (Appendix 10.2) indicates the presence of one fault crossing 
the Project Site running north west to south east through the Access Road. There 
are numerous other faults identified within the 1 m search buffer around the Project 
Site predominantly running from north-west to south east.  
10.5.15 The Preliminary Geo-Environmental Risk Assessment (Ref.10.1) indicates that 
there was a ‘Slant’ (inclined shaft or level) identified at Abergelli Colliery, which 
provided access to both the Graigola and Swansea Four Feet coal seams. 
c) Soils and Agriculture 
10.5.16 The soil and agriculture land classifications are discussed in the Preliminary Geo-
Environmental Risk Assessment (Ref. 10.1) and indicate the following:  
 There are two different soil classification areas across the Project Site. The 
predominant soil classification is described as “slowly permeable, wet, very 
acidic upland soils with a peaty surface”. The soils are described as “low 
fertility” and land cover is described as “moorland rough grazing and forestry”. 
The precipitation “drains to the stream network”. Overgrazing of this soil could 
lead to accelerated run-off and soil erosion. 
 Through the centre and north eastern section of the Project Site, the soils are 
described as “freely draining, slightly acid loamy soils”. The soils are of “low 
fertility”, with “arable and grassland” land cover and precipitation “drains to local 
groundwater and rivers”. There is potential for groundwater contamination with 
these soils, comprising nitrate, siltation and nutrient enrichment of streams from 
soil erosion. 
 The agricultural land classification for the land within and surrounding the 
Project Site is Grade 4 (“poor quality agricultural land”) “with severe limitations 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 10: GEOLOGY, GROUND CONDITIONS AND HYDROGEOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
10-17 
 
which significantly restricts the range of crops and/or level of yields, mainly 
suited to grass with occasional arable crops”. 
 The Project Site is known to be utilised as improved grazing for sheep and 
horses, with small areas of marshy grassland and woodland copses 
interspersing the improved grassland to the north and east.  
d) Ground Workings and Mineral Resources 
10.5.17 The Envirocheck (Appendix 10.2) does not indicate the presence of any historical 
ground workings on the Project Site, however within the 1 km search buffer there 
are ten records of historical ground working features. These have all ceased 
production and are listed in Table 10-7. These comprise nine opencast mines 
producing sandstones and sands and gravel and one underground mine producing 
coal.  
Table 10-7: Recorded Opencast and Underground Mines 
Site Name 
Distance  and 
direction 
Type of site 
Status 
Geology and 
Commodity 
Aber-Gelli-Fach 
Gravel Pit 
161 m NE 
Opencast 
Ceased 
Glaciofluvial Deposits - 
sand and gravel 
Bryn-Whilach 
Plantation Gravel Pit 456 m SE 
Opencast 
Ceased 
Till - sand and gravel 
Waen Ffyrdd 
Plantation Sand Pit 
474 m W 
Opencast 
Ceased 
Glaciofluvial Deposits - 
sand  
Gelli-Gron 
621 m NE 
Opencast 
Ceased 
Swansea Member - 
sandstone 
Llidiard -Y-Cleders 
648 m NW 
Opencast 
Ceased 
Grovesend Formation - 
sandstone 
Bryn-Whilach 
676 m SE 
Underground 
Ceased 
Grovesend Formation - 
deep coal 
Nant-Y-Ganol Wood 
Sand Pit 
800 m S 
Opencast 
Ceased 
Till - sand  
Waterworks Cottage 893 m N 
Opencast 
Ceased 
Swansea Member - 
sandstone 
Gelli-Feddan 
956 m N 
Opencast 
Ceased 
Grovesend Formation - 
sandstone 
Pen-Y-Fedw-Isaf 
976 m W 
Opencast 
Ceased 
Swansea Member - 
sandstone 
10.5.18 The Coal Authority Mining Report (Appendix 10.4) identified Abergelli Colliery 
located adjacent to the Project Site approximately 500 m north of Abergelli Farm. A 
coal pit, shaft, colliery, and mine spoil heap have all been identified on historical 
mapping at locations extending to between 480 m and 1 km from the Project Site 
boundary (i.e. outside the boundaries of the Project Site). 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 10: GEOLOGY, GROUND CONDITIONS AND HYDROGEOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
10-18 
 
10.5.19 The Coal Authority Mining Report (dated 30 July 2014) indicated that the Project 
Site is in the “likely zone of influence from workings in three seams of coal, at 
shallow to a depth of 380 m”. Figure 10.2 presents the mine workings from the 
mine abandonment plan across the Project Site. This plan shows that the entire 
Project Site is influenced by mine workings. 
10.5.20 There are two mine entries adjacent to the Project Site, one of which is located in 
the vicinity of Abergelli Colliery (north of Abergelli Farm). The other is located south 
of the Substation at (NGR 264970, 200800). There is no record of any treatment to 
the mine entries. These mine entries are shown on Figure 10.3. 
10.5.21 The Coal Authority indicates that reserves of coal exist and could be worked in the 
future. However, the Project Site is currently not in an area for which the Coal 
Authority is determining to grant a licence to remove coal using underground 
methods, where a licence has been granted or in an area that is likely to be 
affected at the surface from any planned future underground workings. 
10.5.22 The Coal Authority report states that the Project Site is not within the boundary of 
an opencast site from which coal has been removed by opencast methods, and 
does not lie within 200 m of a boundary of an opencast site. It also states that the 
Project Site is not within 800 m of the boundary of an opencast site for which the 
Coal Authority are determining whether to grant a licence to remove coal by 
opencast methods, or for which a licence to remove coal has been granted. 
e) Ground Stability/Subsidence 
10.5.23 The Coal Authority Mining Report indicates that no notice of the risk of the land 
being affected by subsidence has been given under Section 46 of the Coal Mining 
Subsidence Act 1991. 
10.5.24 Abergelli Farm has been subject to remedial works, by or on behalf of the Coal 
Authority under its emergency surface hazard call out procedures. No further 
information was provided, however two damage notices or claims for alleged 
subsidence damage were made in June 1995 and November 1996 both of which 
were rejected. 
10.5.25 Geological hazards across the Project Site have been identified in the Landmark 
Envirocheck Report; these are detailed in Table 10-8. 
Table 10-8: Geological Hazards 
Geological Hazard 
Hazard Potential: 
Stability Hazards 
Collapsible Ground  
No hazard to very low 
Compressible Ground  
No hazard to high 
Ground Dissolution  
No hazard 
Landslide Ground  
Very low to low 
Running Sand Ground  
No hazard to low 
Shrinking or Swelling Clay 
Ground  
No hazard to very low 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 10: GEOLOGY, GROUND CONDITIONS AND HYDROGEOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
10-19 
 
Radon 
Affected 
Areas 
Lower probability radon area (less than 1% of homes are 
estimated to be at or above the Action Level). 
Radon 
Protection 
Measures 
No radon protective measures are necessary in the 
construction of new dwellings or extensions 
10.5.26 The high compressible ground hazard is assumed to be associated with the peat 
located in the north east of the Generating Equipment Site and to the north west of 
Abergelli Farm. The presence of peat and nature of its compressibility will be 
determined during the ground investigation. 
10.5.27 Consideration of this hazard will be made in the design of any ground works 
(including ground investigation, earthworks, de-watering) and foundation design. 
There is an impact associated with any measure selected to mitigate the risk of 
settlement of compressible peat deposits (if present). The final design will 
incorporate suitable mitigation on the basis of the ground investigation findings to 
minimise the interaction of the Project with the peat / disturbance of the peat as a 
result of the Project. In the event that there will be some disturbance of peat, part of 
the embedded mitigation is to produce a Peat Management Plan, which will ensure 
that this is handled properly and on-site reuse of any excavated peat is maximised.   
The Peat Management Plan will be prepared and included in the final ES at DCO 
submission. 
f) 
Hydrogeology 
10.5.28 The superficial glaciofluvial deposits and the bedrock geology are both classified as 
Secondary A Aquifers.  Secondary A Aquifers are defined as ‘permeable layers 
capable of supporting water supplies at a local rather than strategic scale, and in 
some cases forming an important source of base flow to rivers.’ 
10.5.29 The superficial glacial till deposits are classed as Unproductive Strata,  defined as 
‘rock layers or drift deposits with low permeability that have negligible significance 
for water supply or river base flow’. 
10.5.30 The Landmark Envirocheck report has identified no groundwater abstraction 
licences associated with the Project Site. There is only one licence located within 
100 m of the Project Site, recorded 56 m to the north-east for a well at Abergelli 
Farm, licence number 22/59/4/0027 dated February 1993, for general farming and 
domestic use. There are a further seven licensed groundwater abstractions within 1 
km  of the site all for general farming and domestic use and a further 21 within 2 km  
of the Project Site. Swansea Council has also identified a number of private water 
supplies located in close proximity to the Project Site. Further detail relating to 
water abstractions including the potential presence of unlicensed private water 
supplies is included in Chapter 9: Water Quality and Resources. 
10.5.31 The Project Site does not lie within a groundwater Source Protection Zone (SPZ). 
10.5.32 The Landmark Envirocheck identifies the groundwater vulnerability classification of 
the soils beneath the Project Site and surrounding area. These vary between Low 
(L) to High (H) Leaching Potentials (classifications of L, H1, H3, I1 and U).  These 
classifications are described as follows: 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 10: GEOLOGY, GROUND CONDITIONS AND HYDROGEOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
10-20 
 
 L: Soils in which pollutants are unlikely to penetrate the soil layer because 
water movement is largely horizontal or they have large ability to attenuate 
diffuse pollutants. Lateral flow from these soils contributes to groundwater 
recharge elsewhere in the catchment. 
 H1: Soils which readily transmit liquid discharges because they are either 
shallow or susceptible to rapid by-pass flow directly to rock, gravel or 
groundwater. 
 H3: Coarse textured or moderately shallow soils which readily transmit non-
absorbed pollutants and liquid discharges but which have some ability to 
attenuate absorbed pollutants because of their large clay or organic matter 
contents. 
 I1: Soils which can possibly transmit a wide range of pollutants. 
 U: Soil information for restored mineral workings and urban areas is based on 
fewer observations than elsewhere. A worst case vulnerability classification (H) 
assumed, until proved otherwise. 
10.5.33 The Envirocheck Report identifies areas prone to flooding associated by the Afon 
Llan in the south of the Project Site in the Ecological Mitigation Area. NRW website 
(Ref. 10.25) indicates a medium chance of flooding from rivers or the sea with a 
chance of flooding of between 1 in 100 (1%) and 1 in 30 (3.3%).  
10.5.34 The Envirocheck Report indicates the presence of two discharge consents to 
groundwater on the Project Site, however these have both been surrendered.  Both 
were held by the Felindre Gas Compressor Station, one for discharging sewage to 
an unnamed land drain, effective between 2007 and 2010; and one for trade 
discharges (site drainage) to the Afon Llan, effective from 2006 until it was 
surrendered in 2011.  There are a further three discharge consents within 250 m of 
the Project Site, all of which have expired.   
10.5.35 There have been no Pollution Incidents to Controlled Waters recorded on the 
Project Site by the Envirocheck Report. There have been three between 250 m and 
500 m of the Project Site, which were classed as Category 3 minor incidents and a 
further eight incidents between 500 km and 1 km of the Project Site. These were 
classed between Category 1 major incident and Category 3 minor incidents.  
g) Soil Chemistry 
10.5.36 The Envirocheck Report has identified the estimated background soil chemistry (for 
selected key elements) across the Project Site. They are summarised as: 
 Arsenic: 25 – 35 mg/kg, 
 Cadmium: <1.8 – 3.0 mg/kg, 
 Chromium: 60 – 90 mg/kg 
 Nickel: 15 – 45 mg/kg; and 
 Lead: <100 mg/kg. 
 
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 10: GEOLOGY, GROUND CONDITIONS AND HYDROGEOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
10-21 
 
h) Groundwater Quality  
10.5.37 Groundwater quality in the study area has been assessed against the objectives of 
the Water Framework Directive (WFD). Details are presented in Chapter 9: Water 
Quality and Resources.   
i) 
Landfill 
10.5.38 The Envirocheck Report indicates that there are no landfill sites located within the 
Project Site boundary.    
10.5.39 The closest landfill sites to the Project Site is one registered landfill and an adjacent 
historic “Landfill Extension” located at Abergelli Fach Farm located between 92 m 
and 121 m north east of the Project Site.  The current status of the registered 
landfill is ‘closed’ and it was only able to accept non-biodegradable wastes. The 
total void space was calculated at 75,000 m3 with a total tonnage of 142,500 t. 
10.5.40 The Landfill Extension is reported to have accepted inert waste. The planning 
application for this extension was granted in 1997. NRW provided the Working Plan 
and associated drawings for the landfill which were dated March 1994. The total 
void space was calculated at 99,898 m3, with a total tonnage of 179,816 t. The 
Working Plan described the land as low lying, and poorly drained. Approximately 
three quarters of the landfill area was covered by a mine soil dump from Abergelli 
Colliery. This mine waste was removed leaving a layer of well compacted mine 
waste over the majority of the landfill area. The area of ground that was covered by 
the mine spoil was used for drying out of water treatment sludge (aluminium 
sulphate) though ceased when the landfill became operational. No further 
information on this operation is known. 
10.5.41 Swansea City Waste Disposal Company Ltd gained planning permission for 
‘excavation and removal of inert material from landfill site and restoration’ at 
Abergelli Farm in February 2003 (CCS Ref: 2002/0312). This consent was 
subsequently amended, extending the permission to allow the excavation and 
removal of inert material until 31st December 2010 (2007/0907). The site has now 
been fully restored. 
10.5.42 There are also an additional three historical landfills within 400 m of the Project 
Site, all located between 294 m and 402 m south-east of the Project Site.  The first 
is located 294 m east of the Project Site at Gorswen Farm and accepted 
unspecified waste between 1971 and 1972.  The second landfill was licenced to 
British Steel and located 309 m south-east. It was active between 1980 and 1994 
and received deposited waste included industrial and household waste. The third 
landfill is located 402 m south-east and was active been 1955 and 1970 receiving 
deposited waste included inert, industrial and special waste.   
j) 
Recorded Animal Burial Grounds 
10.5.43 Information obtained from CCS indicates there was no local cull of animals in 
Swansea, Neath Port Talbot or Carmarthenshire during the Foot and Mouth 
outbreak in 2001. No mass burial of animals have been recorded at the Project 
Site. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 10: GEOLOGY, GROUND CONDITIONS AND HYDROGEOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
10-22 
 
k) Historical Land Use 
10.5.44 Historical maps have been provided in the Landmark Envirocheck Report, 
presented in Appendix 10.2. The historical development of the Project Site is 
summarised in Table 10-9. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 10: GEOLOGY, GROUND CONDITIONS AND HYDROGEOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
10-23 
 
Table 10-9: Historical Development 
Dates / Sources 
On Project Site 
Off Project Site  
1877 1:2,500 
1884 1:10,560 
 
The 
Project 
Site 
is 
predominantly agricultural 
fields and tracks, with 
areas of woodland and 
marshland. 
The land is predominantly agricultural. 
A lime kiln is identified approx. 325 m south east of the Project Site; west of the Maes-
eglwys development.  
There are a number of buildings associated with Abergelli Fach to the east of the 
Project Site, Abergelli Fawr to the west of the Site and Bryn Mawr along the north 
western corner of the Project Site.  
Bryn-whilach Pit is identified approx. 775 m south of the Site.  
1890 1:10,560 
1898 
– 
1899 
1:2,500 
The 
woodland 
in 
the 
south west of the Project 
Site 
has 
now 
been 
identified 
as 
Abergelli 
Fach 
Plantation 
and 
Lletty Morfil Plantation. 
A gravel pit is identified to the west of Abergelli Fach approx. 250 m west of the Site. 
An old gravel pit is identified approx. 425 m to the south of the Project Site that was not 
previously identified in Bryn-whilach Plantation. 
1921 1:10,560 
 
1917-1918 
1:2,500 
Rises and streams are 
now indicated on the 
map. 
Two old quarries have been identified. One approximately 1 km west and one 
approximately 650 m north west of the Project Site. 
A tank is identified next to a spring 250 m west of the Project Site, north of Abergelli 
Fach Plantation. 
The gravel pit located to the west of the Site is now identified as ‘old’. 
The limekiln previously identified west of Maes-eglwys is now labelled as ‘Old Limekiln’. 
Bryn-whilach Pit is identified approx. 775 m south of the Site is now labelled as ‘Old 
Coal Pit’. 
1935-1936 
1:10,560 
1935                   
1:2,500 
No significant changes. 
Abergelli Colliery, associated buildings, engine houses, railway sidings, slant (loading 
bay) and tank are identified on the map, north of Abergelli Fach and adjacent to the 
Site boundary. 
The gravel pit to the west of Abergelli Fach is no longer labelled.  
The gravel pit located to the south of the Site is no longer shown. The two old quarries 
to the northwest and west of the Site are no longer shown.  
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 10: GEOLOGY, GROUND CONDITIONS AND HYDROGEOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
10-24 
 
Dates / Sources 
On Project Site 
Off Project Site  
1951 1:10,560 
No significant changes. 
The buildings associated with Abergelli Colliery have changed slightly but still appear to 
be operational 
1964 1:10,560 
1961 1:2,500 
 
No significant changes. 
The colliery is now identified as disused. A spoil heap/tip adjacent to the colliery is 
identified to the north west of the mine with a routeway into the centre of the tip. 
Railway sidings tracks run through the colliery and ends at the edge of the spoil 
heap/tip. 
The tank next to Abergelli Plantation is no longer identified. 
A large Works building is located 650 m south of an access road.  
1976 1:10,000 
1973-1975 
1:2,500 
Electricity 
pylons 
are 
identified 
across 
the 
Project Site, towards the 
central section of the 
Project Site, running in a 
north-east to south-west 
direction. 
The majority of the buildings associated with Abergelli Colliery no longer remain.  
The tip to the south of the Project Site has extended to the north east and is now 
labelled ‘tip’.  
The Substation is presented adjacent to the south of access road. Associated pylons 
run south towards the tip and also north and east. 
1986 1:2,500 
No significant changes. 
A gas valve compound is shown adjacent to the north western Project Site boundary. 
Beyond the gas valve compound are covered reservoirs and associated water 
treatment works. 
1990 1:2,00 
No significant changes. 
The spoil heap/tip/landfill adjacent to the former Abergelli colliery is no longer present 
on the map. 
1991 1:10,000 
1992 1:2,500 
1999 
Google 
Earth 
Pro 
imagery 
Two ponds are labelled in 
the proposed area of the 
Generating Power Plant. 
[HOLD3]  
The Substation is present 
in 
the 
south 
western 
corner of the Project Site, 
adjacent to Lletty-morfil 
Plantation. 
A large warehouse building is now present in the area adjacent to the former Abergelli 
Colliery (which is no longer labelled). From the earliest imagery available on Google 
Earth Pro the landfill adjacent the former Abergelli colliery appears to be backfilled and 
the slope graded. The majority of the landfill extension to the south of the Project Site is 
vegetated. 
Abergelli Fach is now labelled as Abergelli Farm and looks to have been redeveloped. 
Abergelli Fawr to the east of the Project Site is now labelled as ruins.  
The Works building to the south of the Project Site is now labelled as Velindre Works.  
A tip is located approximately 300 m to the south of the Project Site 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 10: GEOLOGY, GROUND CONDITIONS AND HYDROGEOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
10-25 
 
Dates / Sources 
On Project Site 
Off Project Site  
1999 1:10,000 
No significant changes. 
Velindre Works to the south of the Project Site is no longer present. 
2000 
Aerial 
photography 
No significant changes. 
The tip located to the south of the Project Site appears to be vegetated.  
2002 1:10,000 
2002 
Google 
Earth 
Pro 
imagery 
No significant changes. 
 
Two buildings associated with the former colliery remain along with a large warehouse. 
The tip to the south of the Project Site is becoming vegetated. The northern part of the 
landfill extension looks to be currently worked. 
2006 1:10,000 
No significant changes. 
An area to the west of Abergelli Farm is cleared of vegetation.  
Part of the former tip to the north of the former Abergelli Colliery has been redeveloped 
into an area of hardstanding.  
The tip located approximately 300 m to the south of the Project Site is no longer 
present. 
2008 
Google 
Earth 
Pro 
imagery 
No significant changes. 
The gas compression station located immediately adjacent to the north of the access 
road is being developed. A large tract of land leading north from the station is cleared 
of vegetation to allow for the pipelines to be buried.  
The area of ground west of Abergelli Farm which was cleared in 2006 now has a 
number of small buildings present.  
2010 
Google 
Earth 
Pro 
imagery 
No significant changes. 
There is a new access road serving the gas compression station development running 
along the northern boundary of the tip to the south of the Site.    
Two new residential dwellings have been built on the open ground to the west of 
Abergelli Farm.  
2013 
Google 
Earth 
Pro 
imagery 
No significant changes. 
The access road serving the Felindre Gas Compressor Station development is no 
longer present. 
2015 
Google 
Earth 
Pro 
imagery 
No significant changes. 
A new area of hardstanding has been developed on the landfill site adjacent to the 
former Abergelli Colliery.  
Two solar parks have been developed; Rhyd-y-pandy solar park to the east of the 
Project Site and Abergelli Farm to the west of the Site. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 10: GEOLOGY, GROUND CONDITIONS AND HYDROGEOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
10-26 
 
l) 
Sensitive Land Uses 
10.5.45 There are four areas of ancient woodland on the Project Site. One area of ancient 
woodland is located close to the Generating Equipment Site and other three 
surround the Substation and Felindre Gas Compressor Station. More information 
on the ancient woodland is provided in Chapter 8: Ecology. 
m) Potentially Contaminative Land Uses 
10.5.46 Table 10-10 lists land uses identified which have the potential to cause 
contamination on the Project Site and within 250 m of the Project Site boundary. 
Land uses further than 250 m from the Project Site boundary are not considered as 
they are unlikely to affect the Project Site. The table also details contaminant 
groups potentially present as a result of these land uses. 
Table 10-10: Land Uses and Potentially Present Contaminant Groups  
Process / Land use 
Location 
Contaminant Groups 
Potentially Present  
Abergelli Colliery with 
associated 
engine 
houses, 
tanks, 
conveyor 
belt 
and 
spoil heap 
Off-Site: North of Abergelli 
Fach (Farm) immediately 
west of the Project Site. 
Metals 
and 
metalloids, 
phenols, 
sulphates, asbestos, total petroleum 
hydrocarbons (TPH) and polycyclic 
aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs).  
Ground 
gas 
including 
coal 
bed 
methane. 
Railway 
sidings 
associated 
with 
Abergelli Colliery 
Off-Site: North of Abergelli 
Fach (Farm) immediately 
west of the Project Site. 
Hydrocarbons including lubricating 
oils/fuel, 
PCBs, 
PAHs, 
ethylene 
glycol, 
heavy 
metals, 
asbestos, 
combustion ash, herbicides, creosote, 
sulphate. 
Drying out of water 
treatment sludges  
Off-Site: Abergelli Colliery 
and 
location 
of 
landfill 
extension (~120 m west of 
Project Site). 
Aluminium 
sulphate 
and 
heavy 
metals 
Historic Landfill and 
Landfill Extension 
Off-Site: North west and 
west of Abergelli Colliery 
(north of Abergelli Fach) 
~100 m west of the Project 
Site at its closest point. 
Heavy 
metals, 
hydrocarbons, 
asbestos 
and 
other 
unknown 
contaminants associated with the 
waste 
(reported 
to 
be 
non-
biodegradable wastes). 
Mining 
wastes 
including 
mine 
tailings/spoil 
potentially 
containing 
high 
concentrations 
of 
arsenic, 
copper and other metals, phenols, 
sulphates, asbestos, TPH and PAHs.   
Gases such as carbon dioxide, 
methane 
and 
hydrogen 
sulphide 
generated 
from 
fill 
materials 
of 
unknown constituents. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 10: GEOLOGY, GROUND CONDITIONS AND HYDROGEOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
10-27 
 
Process / Land use 
Location 
Contaminant Groups 
Potentially Present  
Felindre 
Gas 
Compressor Station, 
the Substation and 
electricity pylons 
Off-Site: 
West 
of 
the 
Project Site, located north 
and south of the Access 
Road. Sites operated by 
National Grid Gas Plc. 
Electricity pylons located 
across the Project Site 
Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCB’s), 
other transformer oils and solvents 
Agricultural land 
On-Site: 
Across 
the 
majority of the Project Site 
including plantations to the 
south of the Project Site. 
Fertilisers, pesticides, herbicides, fuel 
and oil hydrocarbons associated with 
machinery, organic and biological 
contaminants. 
 
n) 
Sources of Contamination 
10.5.47 It is considered that the most likely sources of contamination for the Project Site 
are: 
 Contamination associated with the off-site historic landfill and landfill extension 
including aluminium sulphate sludge; and 
 Contamination from agricultural land use. 
o) 
Preliminary Conceptual Site Model (CMS) 
10.5.48 On the basis of the information summarised above, a preliminary CSM has been 
developed for the Project Site. The CSM identifies potential contaminants, 
receptors (both on and off-site) and exposure pathways that may be present. The 
identification of such potential “pollutant linkages” is a key aspect of the evaluation 
of potentially contaminated land. Potential “pollutant linkages” associated with the 
Project Site are detailed within Table 10-11. 
10.5.49 It should be noted that the identification of potential “pollutant linkages” does not 
indicate that they are significant in any way or that the Project Site is unsuitable for 
its current/proposed use. It does, however, act as a way of focusing future data 
collection at the Project Site and identifying any key potential risks associated with 
the Project Site. 
10.5.50 The model is based on a desk study and a walkover undertaken in 2014 and will be 
confirmed through intrusive investigation prior to detailed design and as per a DCO 
Requirement. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 10: GEOLOGY, GROUND CONDITIONS AND HYDROGEOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
10-28 
 
Table 10-11: Preliminary Conceptual Site Model  
Source  
Pathway  
Receptor  
Risk  
Risk Description 
Off-Site: 
Waste 
within 
the 
historic 
landfill and landfill 
extension (including 
the process of drying 
out water treatment 
sludge) 
Direct 
contact 
with 
shallow 
groundwater 
impacted with landfill 
leachates. 
Construction Workers 
 
 
Low 
 
 
The majority of the development area will 
comprise hardstanding; therefore the risk of 
exposure is negligible. Regular contact with this 
potential contaminative source is unlikely. The 
presence of vegetation across the majority of the 
Project Site limits exposure via the direct contact 
pathway.  
Landfill 
gas 
generation 
Inhalation 
of 
soil 
vapours outdoors   
Construction Workers 
Low 
There is potential for landfill gases to be present 
within the landfill and landfill extension. The gas 
generation is anticipated to be low as the landfill 
was licenced to only receive inert and non 
biodegradable 
waste. 
This 
needs 
to 
be 
considered 
as 
buried 
structures 
will 
be 
constructed to the east of the landfills. The 
exposure durations are limited and the receptor 
class is less sensitive; the Generating Equipment 
Site is relatively distant from the landfill hence the 
“Low” classification. 
Migration of ground 
gases / vapours into 
buildings 
including 
accumulation 
in 
confined spaces 
Human Health: Future 
workers 
on 
the 
Generating Equipment 
Low 
Built 
environment 
/ 
structures / services  
Mine gas generation 
Inhalation 
of 
soil 
vapours outdoors   
Construction workers 
Moderate 
/ Low 
During the construction works there is a 
possibility that ground gas from coal bed methane 
or mine workings may be disturbed. The Coal 
Authority report indicates that there are shallow 
workings present in 3 seams of coal to depths of 
380 m. Ground investigation is required to assess 
the likelihood and level of risk. With current land 
use the risk is considered to be moderate to low 
as there has been minimal ground disturbance.  
Migration of ground 
gases / vapours into 
buildings 
including 
accumulation 
in 
confined spaces 
Human Health: Future 
workers 
on 
the 
Generating Equipment 
Built 
environment 
/ 
structures / services 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 10: GEOLOGY, GROUND CONDITIONS AND HYDROGEOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
10-29 
 
Source  
Pathway  
Receptor  
Risk  
Risk Description 
Natural 
gas 
from 
potential 
peat 
stratum 
Inhalation 
of 
soil 
vapours outdoors   
Human Health: Future 
workers 
on 
the 
Generating Equipment 
Moderate 
/ Low 
There is potential for natural ground gases to be 
present within the peat stratum mapped in 
localised areas within the Project Site. The gas 
generation is anticipated to be moderate to low in 
these areas and this currently vents naturally. 
Migration of ground 
gases / vapours into 
buildings 
including 
accumulation 
in 
confined spaces 
Construction workers 
Moderate 
/ Low 
Construction workers may potentially disturb the 
peat habitat during the construction works; this is 
particularly relevant with sub-surface construction 
activities where ground gas may accumulate. 
Built 
environment 
/ 
structures / services 
Agricultural 
land 
(potential 
sheep 
dips, 
use 
of 
fertilisers) 
Surface run-off 
Controlled 
waters 
(groundwater 
in 
Secondary 
A 
superficial 
and  
bedrock aquifers and 
drainage ditches within 
the 
Project 
Site 
boundary) 
Low 
Fertilisers could be washed into receiving surface 
waters. Drainage ditches run across the Project 
Site and may transport contaminants. The 
farming practices and potential use of chemicals 
is unknown but as the land is predominantly used 
for grazing the risk is considered low.  
Dermal contact and 
ingestion of soils and 
dust Inhalation of dust 
Human Health: Future 
workers 
on 
the 
Generating Equipment 
Low 
The majority of the development area will 
comprise hardstanding; therefore the risk of 
exposure is negligible. Regular contact with this 
potential contaminative source is unlikely. The 
presence of vegetation across the majority of the 
Project Site limits exposure via the direct contact 
pathway. 
Construction workers 
Low 
As above. In addition, the exposure durations are 
limited and the receptor class is less sensitive. 
Regular contact with site soils is unlikely. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 10: GEOLOGY, GROUND CONDITIONS AND HYDROGEOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
10-30 
 
Source  
Pathway  
Receptor  
Risk  
Risk Description 
Natural radon gas 
 
Inhalation 
of 
soil 
vapours outdoors   
Human Health: Future 
workers 
on 
the 
Generating Equipment 
Low 
The Envirocheck report indicates that the radon 
potential is low in this area.  
Inhalation 
of 
soil 
vapours indoors 
Construction workers 
Aggressive 
soil 
conditions 
Direct 
contact 
with 
shallow 
groundwater 
and soil 
Buried 
concrete 
structures 
of 
the 
Project 
Low 
Whilst aggressive soil conditions (sulphate / pH) 
may be present, the area which will require buried 
structures is on greenfield land and therefore the 
probability of the risk occurring is unlikely; 
therefore the risk is considered low. 
Chemicals 
used 
during 
construction 
works 
including 
oils/fuels, 
liquid 
concrete and other 
materials 
Accidental releases to 
ground 
including 
spillage/ leakage from 
containers 
and 
engines, followed by 
vertical/lateral 
migration 
Controlled 
Waters: 
Secondary 
A 
superficial 
and  
bedrock aquifers 
Low 
If 
spillage 
of 
chemicals 
occurred 
during 
construction operations it is likely that this would 
be quickly recognised and contained, due to 
operational requirements. 
Construction 
industry 
pollution 
prevention 
guidelines will be followed, as detailed in the 
CEMP, such as use of bunded storage of any 
chemicals or fuel kept on site, the introduction of 
petrol interceptors to filter run off from areas of 
hardstanding created for construction plant. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 10: GEOLOGY, GROUND CONDITIONS AND HYDROGEOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
10-31 
 
10.6 
Embedded Mitigation 
10.6.1 As detailed in Chapter 3: The Project and Site Description, a number of 
embedded mitigation measures have been identified through the iterative EIA 
process and have been incorporated into the design and construction planning of 
the Project.   
10.6.2 As these mitigation measures have been embedded into the design, are legal 
requirements or are standard practices that will be implemented, the assessment of 
likely significant effects assumes that they are in place.   
10.7 
Assessment of Effects 
10.7.1 This section presents the findings of the geology, ground conditions and 
hydrogeology assessment for the construction phase, the operational phase and 
decommissioning of the Project. 
10.7.2 This section identifies any likely significant effects that are predicted to occur 
following embedded mitigation measures and Section 10.8 highlights the additional 
mitigation and monitoring measures that are proposed to reduce or eliminate the 
identified significant effects. 
a) Construction  
i. 
Power Generation Plant 
Geology and Soils: Sand and Gravel Reserves 
10.7.3 The UDP Proposals Map indicates that sand and gravel reserves are present 
underlying the Project Site. These areas are presented in Figure 10.1. The sand 
and gravel reserves have historically been worked adjacent to the Project Site; the 
location of the disused gravel pit is shown in Figure 10.3.  
10.7.4 Should the ground investigation provide evidence that sand and gravel reserves 
are available directly under the Power Generation Plant footprint, there will be a 
permanent sterilisation of those potentially available reserves.  The sand and 
gravels reserves are considered to be of low sensitivity due to minimal economic 
use. The magnitude of the impact is assessed as low, as while there will be 
permanent (for the duration of the Project) sterilisation of the reserves, a relatively 
small area of the reserves will be affected compared to the full extent.  The 
significance of the effects is therefore considered to be Minor adverse which is not 
significant.   
Geology and Soils: Coal Reserves 
10.7.5 The UDP Proposals Map indicates that coal reserves are present underlying the 
Project Site. These areas are presented in Figure 10.1. The coal reserves have 
historically been worked underlying the Project Site; the location of the workings is 
shown in Figure 10.2. Should the ground investigation provide evidence of further 
commercially viable coal reserves under the footprint of the Power Generation Site, 
there could be a permanent sterilisation of potentially available reserves. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 10: GEOLOGY, GROUND CONDITIONS AND HYDROGEOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
10-32 
 
10.7.6 The coal reserves are considered to be of low sensitivity due to minimal economic 
use. The magnitude of the impact is assessed as low, as while there will be 
permanent constraint on future extraction, a relatively small area of the coal 
reserves will be affected compared to the full extent.  The significance of the effects 
is therefore considered to be Minor adverse which is not significant in EIA terms.   
Geology and Soils: Peat Deposits 
10.7.7 There are areas of peat identified across the region with one deposit shown to be 
located within or close to the Power Generation Plant. The peat deposits are 
characterised as being of  Low sensitivity due to their limited spatial extent (pockets 
located north east of the Generating Equipment Site and to the north west of 
Abergelli Farm).  
10.7.8 The interaction of the Project with the peat is likely to be minimal. The volume of 
peat affected will be determined through the completion of the ground investigation 
and therefore cannot be currently assessed as the thickness of the unit is unknown 
but likely to variable. The area of mapped peat within the Project Site is ~2.3 ha 
compared to the total area of the mapped deposit of ~7.4 ha that extends beyond 
the Project Site’s boundary. The magnitude of the impact is therefore considered to 
be low and the significance of the effects is therefore Minor which is not significant. 
Agricultural Land 
10.7.9 There will be a direct, permanent (for the duration of the Project) local loss of 
approximately 3 ha of Grade 4 agricultural land in the area of the Generating 
Equipment Site. Grade 4 land is defined as land with severe limitations which 
significantly restrict the range of crops and / or level of yield and therefore the 
sensitivity of this receptor is considered to be negligible. While there will be 
sterilisation of the receptor under the Project structures, this is over a relatively 
small area of the Project Site. Therefore the magnitude is assessed as negligible 
and the significance of the effects also considered to be Negligible which is not 
significant. 
Structures 
10.7.10 There is high potential for the ground beneath the structures to become unstable 
from previous mining activities, ground workings, and compressible ground (in 
particular the peat deposits where directly impacted). The sensitivity of the receptor 
is considered to be high as these effects can lead to loss or damage to plant and 
structures. A comprehensive ground investigation will be undertaken prior to 
construction (as per a DCO Requirement) which will inform the foundation design 
and any remediation required to be undertaken as standard and as required as part 
of the embedded mitigation for the Project. Once the embedded mitigation has 
been taken into account, the magnitude of effect is considered to be negligible. The 
significance of the effects has therefore been assessed as Minor adverse which is 
not significant. 
 
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 10: GEOLOGY, GROUND CONDITIONS AND HYDROGEOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
10-33 
 
Controlled Waters 
10.7.11 Piling is anticipated to be the realistic worst case scenario required as part of the 
construction works. There is potential for the quality of the groundwater present in 
the Secondary A superficial and bedrock aquifers to be impacted by the piling 
process producing additional pollutant migration pathways for contaminated 
shallow groundwater or surface waters to impact deeper aquifer groundwater. The 
sensitivity of the groundwater is assessed as high due to the Secondary Aquifer 
designation and the presence of water abstractions and private water supplies.  
Once the embedded mitigation such as pollution control measures have been 
taken into account, the magnitude of effect is considered to be negligible. The 
significance of the effects has therefore been assessed as Minor adverse which is 
not significant. 
10.7.12 The depth to and extent of coal workings is currently unconfirmed and therefore it is 
currently not assessed as to whether the proposed piles will intercept worked or 
unworked coal measures or will be founded in strata not affected by the zone of 
influence 
of 
mine 
workings. 
If 
grouting 
is 
required 
as 
part 
of 
remediation/stabilisation of mine workings this could also have an impact upon 
groundwater quality. However potential effects would be mitigated by the CEMP 
and are likely to be short term in duration once the grout has set and no bleed 
water is present to leach into the surrounding strata. 
10.7.13 There is potential for the introduction of contaminated material to enter the ground 
or controlled waters during the construction phase of the Power Generation Plant. 
This may occur due to incorrect storage/transport/use of materials such as fuels, 
oils and chemicals. The pollutants from the spill/leak could infiltrate into the ground, 
contaminating soils and / or groundwater, or run off directly into surface water 
bodies. The sensitivity of the groundwater is assessed as high due to the 
Secondary Aquifer designation and the presence of water abstractions and private 
water supplies.  The magnitude of this effect is however assessed as negligible 
once embedded mitigation measures have been taken into account such as 
pollution control measures. The significance of the effects considered to be Minor 
adverse which is not significant. 
Human Health: Construction Workers 
10.7.14 The construction workers are considered to have high sensitivity as construction 
groundworks will be required and as such the workforce may be in direct contact 
with soil and groundwater.  Contamination within soils (the presence of which is to 
be confirmed during the ground investigation) has the potential to affect the health 
of construction workers adversely. Any ground disturbance has the potential to 
cause temporary, moderate adverse effect to health arising from oral, inhalation or 
dermal contact with potential contaminants including potential sheep dips, use of 
fertilisers, ground gas/landfill gas/mine gas or mine water. However once 
embedded mitigation measures detailed in the CEMP are taken into account, it is 
considered to have a Minor adverse effect which is considered to be not 
significant. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 10: GEOLOGY, GROUND CONDITIONS AND HYDROGEOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
10-34 
 
ii. Gas Connection  
10.7.15 The Gas Connection will be in the form of a new above ground installation (AGI) 
and underground gas pipeline connection (the Gas Pipeline), which will be 
approximately 1.4 km in length.  
Geology and Soils: Sand and Gravel Reserves 
10.7.16 Should ground investigation works demonstrate that there is sand and gravel 
reserves at the depth of the Gas Connection works, there will be a permanent 
sterilisation of potential sand and gravel reserves along the Gas Connection 
corridor where the pipe laying activities are expected to occur. The sand and 
gravels reserves are considered to be of low sensitivity due to minimal economic 
use. The magnitude of the impact is assessed as low, as while there will be 
permanent (for the duration of the Project) sterilisation of the reserves, a relatively 
small area of the reserves will be affected compared to the full extent.  The 
significance of the effects is therefore considered to be Minor adverse which is not 
significant.    
10.7.17 Sand and gravel reserves were not identified within the AGI area on the UDP 
Proposals Map (shown in Figure 10.1).  
Geology and Soils: Coal Reserves 
10.7.18 The UDP Proposals Map indicates that coal reserves are present underlying the 
Gas Connection (including AGI), shown in Figure 10.1. Should the ground 
investigation works demonstrate that coal reserves will be directly affected by the 
depth of the Gas Connection; there will be permanent sterilisation on future coal 
extraction along the Gas Pipeline route. The coal reserves are considered to be of 
low sensitivity due to minimal economic use. The magnitude of the impact is 
assessed as low, as while there will be permanent constraint on future extraction, a 
relatively small area of the coal reserves will be affected compared to the full 
extent.  The significance of the effects is therefore considered to be Minor adverse 
which is not significant.  
10.7.19 Coal reserves were not identified within the AGI area on the UDP Proposals Map 
(shown in Figure 10.1). 
Agricultural Land 
10.7.20 The construction phase associated with the Gas Connection will be a corridor with 
a working width of 50 m to 200 m wide and result in a temporary sterilisation of 
Grade 4 agricultural land during the construction period. Grade 4 land is defined as 
land with severe limitations which significantly restrict the range of crops and / or 
level of yield and therefore the sensitivity of this receptor is considered to be 
negligible. While there will be sterilisation of the receptor over a relatively small 
area of the Project Site and therefore the magnitude is assessed as Negligible and 
the significance of the effects also considered to be negligible which is not 
significant.   
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 10: GEOLOGY, GROUND CONDITIONS AND HYDROGEOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
10-35 
 
10.7.21 The Above Ground Installation (AGI) will be approximately 2,975 m2, and result in 
the localised, permanent sterilisation of poor quality agricultural land. Grade 4 land 
is defined as land with severe limitations which significantly restrict the range of 
crops and / or level of yield and therefore the sensitivity of this receptor is 
considered to be negligible. While there will be sterilisation of the receptor, it will 
only be over a relatively small area of the Project Site and therefore the magnitude 
is assessed as negligible and the significance of the effects also considered to be 
Negligible which is not significant.  
iii. Electrical Connection  
10.7.22 The Electrical Connection will involve short sections of open cut trench at either 
end of the access road and the installation of cable ducts. The baseline conditions 
and receptors are the same to that of the Power Generation Plant and Gas 
Connection (described above). The Electrical Connection also coincides with the 
Access Road for approximately 500 m which extends to the Substation. 
Geology and Soils: Sand and Gravel Reserves 
10.7.23 The Electrical Connection will be routed adjacent to the Felindre Gas Compressor 
Station and the Substation and along the Access Road. Therefore the land is 
already sterilised in this area. The sand and gravels reserves are considered to be 
of low sensitivity due to minimal economic use. The magnitude of the impact is 
assessed as low, as while there will be permanent sterilisation of the reserves, a 
relatively small area of the reserves will be affected compared to the full extent.  
The significance of the effects is therefore considered to be Minor adverse which is 
not significant.   
Geology and Soils: Coal Reserves 
10.7.24 The Electrical Connection will be routed adjacent to Felindre Gas Compressor 
Station and the Substation, where the land is already sterilised in this area. The 
coal reserves are considered to be of low sensitivity due to minimal economic use. 
The magnitude of the impact is assessed as low, as while there will be permanent 
constraint on future extraction, a relatively small area of the coal reserves will be 
affected compared to the full extent.  The significance of the effects is therefore 
considered to be Minor adverse which is not significant.    
Agricultural Land 
10.7.25 The construction works associated with the Electrical Connection will result in the 
direct, local and permanent sterilisation of agricultural land. However, the route will 
be result in the permanent loss of approximately 0.33 ha of agricultural land. As 
above, the sensitivity of the agricultural land is considered to be negligible and the 
magnitude also negligible due to the limited extent of the impact. The significance 
of effect is therefore considered to be Negligible which is not significant.     
iv. Project 
10.7.26 Overall, it is considered that the construction phase of the Project will have a 
localised, minor adverse significance of effect on mineral resources (sand and 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 10: GEOLOGY, GROUND CONDITIONS AND HYDROGEOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
10-36 
 
gravel reserves) but a negligible effect on peat deposits and agricultural land. 
Effects on controlled waters, structures and human health have been assessed that 
Minor adverse significance. The significance of effect is not considered to be 
significant.     
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 10: GEOLOGY, GROUND CONDITIONS AND HYDROGEOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
10-37 
 
Table 10-12: Summary of Potential Impacts during the Construction Phase 
Receptor 
Receptor 
Sensitivity 
Type of Effect 
Magnitude Assessment of significance 
(pre- mitigation) 
Power Generation Plant 
Mineral resources – 
sand and gravel 
reserves 
Low 
Sterilisation of available mineral deposits for 
extraction. 
Low 
Minor Adverse 
Local spatial extent 
Direct. Permanent  
Mineral resources – coal 
reserves 
Low 
Permanent constraint on future extraction. 
Low 
Minor Adverse 
Local spatial extent 
Direct. Permanent  
Peat deposits 
Low 
Loss of peat habitat. 
Negligible 
Negligible  
Agricultural land 
Negligible 
Sterilisation of Grade 4 agricultural land 
Negligible 
Negligible  
Structures (Potential 
injuries / fatalities, loss 
or damage to Plant and 
Structures) 
High 
Unstable ground from previous mining 
activities/ workings/ compressible ground 
Negligible 
Minor Adverse 
Local spatial extent 
Direct. Permanent 
Controlled Waters 
High 
Impact to groundwater quality, from creating 
migration pathways for potentially 
contaminated soils and groundwater through 
the piling process 
Negligible 
Minor Adverse 
Local spatial extent 
Direct. Permanent 
Quality of land and / or 
Controlled waters 
High 
Incorrect storage / transport / use of materials 
leading to spills/leaks contaminating soils, 
groundwater or surface waters 
Negligible 
Minor Adverse 
Local spatial extent 
Direct. Permanent 
Human health: 
Construction Workers 
High 
Disturbance and mobilisation of potentially 
contaminated soils, groundwater, ground gas 
impacting on human health, ground instability 
Negligible 
Minor Adverse  
Local extent 
Direct. Temporary 
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 10: GEOLOGY, GROUND CONDITIONS AND HYDROGEOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
10-38 
 
Receptor 
Receptor 
Sensitivity 
Type of Effect 
Magnitude Assessment of significance 
(pre- mitigation) 
Gas Connection 
Mineral resources – 
sand and gravel 
reserves 
Low 
Sterilisation of available mineral deposits for 
extraction. 
Low 
Minor Adverse 
Local spatial extent 
Direct. Permanent  
No mapped reserves - AGI 
Mineral resources – coal 
reserves 
Low 
Sterilisation of available mineral deposits for 
extraction. 
Low 
Minor Adverse 
Local spatial extent 
Direct. Permanent  
No mapped reserves - AGI 
Agricultural land 
Negligible 
Sterilisation of Grade 4 agricultural land 
Negligible 
Negligible  
Electrical Connection 
Mineral resources – 
sand and gravel 
reserves 
Low 
Sterilisation of available mineral deposits for 
extraction. 
Low 
Minor Adverse 
Local spatial extent 
Direct. Permanent  
No mapped reserves - AGI 
Mineral resources – coal 
reserves 
Low 
Sterilisation of available mineral deposits for 
extraction. 
Low 
Minor Adverse 
Local spatial extent 
Direct. Permanent  
No mapped reserves - AGI 
Agricultural land 
Negligible 
Sterilisation of Grade 4 agricultural land 
Negligible 
Negligible  
Project 
Ground conditions 
(mineral resources) 
Low  
Sterilisation of future mineral resources and 
permanent constraint on future extraction  
Low  
Minor Adverse 
Local spatial extent 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 10: GEOLOGY, GROUND CONDITIONS AND HYDROGEOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
10-39 
 
Receptor 
Receptor 
Sensitivity 
Type of Effect 
Magnitude Assessment of significance 
(pre- mitigation) 
Direct. Permanent 
Ground conditions (peat 
and agricultural land) 
Negligible 
Sterilisation of agricultural land and loss of 
peat habitat  
Negligible 
Negligible   
 
Controlled waters, 
structures and human 
health 
High 
Unstable ground, impacts to human health 
and controlled waters 
Negligible 
Minor Adverse   
Local extent 
Direct. Temporary to permanent  
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 10: GEOLOGY, GROUND CONDITIONS AND HYDROGEOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
10-40 
 
 
 
b) 
Operation and Maintenance 
10.7.27 Potential impacts during the operational phase of the Project (including expected 
maintenance activities) are detailed below. 
i. 
Power Generation Plant 
Geology and Soil - Sand and Gravel, Coal and Peat Reserves and Agricultural 
Land 
10.7.28 Operation and maintenance is anticipated to have a Minor adverse effect on the 
geology and soils present on the Power Generation Plant as the potential impact 
would have occurred during the construction phase which is not significant. 
Structures 
10.7.29 Previously unstable land will be directly stabilised during the construction works. 
The sensitivity of the structures is assessed high as the effect of unstable land can 
lead to loss or damage to operational plant and structures. Once embedded 
mitigation measures have been taken into account the magnitude of effect is 
considered to be negligible. The significance of the effects has therefore been 
assessed as Minor beneficial which is not significant. 
10.7.30 There is potential for long term chemical attack on the foundations of the structures. 
Chemical compounds such as sulphate and pH levels in natural ground or polluted 
ground can cause damage to foundations and other sub surface structures. The 
sensitivity of the structures is assessed as high as the receptor has low ability to 
absorb change without fundamentally altering its character. Once embedded 
mitigation measures are taken into account the magnitude of the effect is assessed 
as negligible. The significance of the effect has been assessed as Minor adverse 
which is not significant.  
Land and/or Controlled Waters 
10.7.31 There is potential for the accidental release of stored fuels and chemicals directly 
affecting localised areas of the land or groundwater quality, during the operation 
and maintenance phase of the Project. These pollution incidents may occur due to 
incorrect storage / transport / use of materials such as fuels, oils and chemicals. 
With containment in place, any accidents may result in the containment system 
being affected and a greater risk of measures being defeated. The sensitivity of the 
groundwater is assessed as high due to the Secondary Aquifer designation and the 
presence of water abstractions and private water supplies.  Once the embedded 
mitigation such as pollution control measures has been taken into account, the 
magnitude of effect is considered to be negligible. The significance of the effects 
has therefore been assessed as Minor adverse which is not significant. 
Human Health: Site Workers 
10.7.32 There are no potential human health pollutant linkages anticipated to remain during 
the operational phase or during maintenance as it is assumed that the design of the 
Project will embed suitable mitigation for the protection of human health. The 
sensitivity of the site workers is assessed as high. However once embedded 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 10: GEOLOGY, GROUND CONDITIONS AND HYDROGEOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
10-41 
 
 
 
mitigation measures detailed in the CEMP are taken into account it is considered to 
have a negligible magnitude. The resulting Minor effect is considered to be not 
significant in EIA terms. 
ii. Gas Connection  
Geology and Soil - Sand and Gravel, Coal and Peat Reserves and Agricultural 
Land 
10.7.33 Operation and maintenance is anticipated to have a Minor adverse effect on the 
geology and soils present at the Gas Connection as the potential impact would 
have occurred during the construction phase which is not significant. 
10.7.34  Structures 
10.7.35 There is potential for long term chemical attack on the Gas Pipeline during the 
operational phase of the Project. Chemical compounds such as sulphate and pH 
levels in natural ground or polluted ground can cause damage to sub surface 
structures. The sensitivity of the structures is assessed as high as the receptor has 
low ability to absorb change without fundamentally altering its character. Once the 
embedded mitigation has been taken into account, the magnitude of effect is 
considered to be negligible. The significance of the effects has therefore been 
assessed as Minor adverse which is not significant. 
Controlled Waters 
10.7.36 Operation and maintenance of the Project is anticipated to have a Minor adverse 
effect on the controlled waters as while the potential impact would have occurred 
during the construction phase, the sensitivity of the receptor remains high although 
the magnitude is considered to be negligible. This is not significant. 
Human Health: Site Workers 
10.7.37 Operation and maintenance of the Project is anticipated to have a Minor adverse 
effect on the human health as, while the potential impact would have occurred 
during the construction phase, the sensitivity of the receptor remains high although 
the magnitude is considered to be negligible. This is not significant. 
iii. Electrical Connection  
Geology and Soil - Sand and Gravel, Coal and Peat Reserves and Agricultural 
Land 
10.7.38 Operation and maintenance is anticipated to have a Negligible effect on the 
geology and soils present at the Electrical Connection as the potential impact would 
have occurred during the construction phase which is not significant. 
Structures 
10.7.39 There is potential for long term chemical attack on the underground cable ducts 
during the operational phase of the Project. Chemical compounds such as sulphate 
and pH levels in natural ground or polluted ground can cause damage to sub 
surface structures. The sensitivity of the structures is assessed as high as the 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 10: GEOLOGY, GROUND CONDITIONS AND HYDROGEOLOGY 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
10-42 
 
 
 
receptor has low ability to absorb change without fundamentally altering its 
character. Once the embedded mitigation has been taken into account, the 
magnitude of effect is considered to be negligible. The significance of the effects 
has therefore been assessed as Minor adverse which is not significant. 
Controlled Waters 
10.7.40 Operation and maintenance of the Project is anticipated to have a Minor adverse 
effect on the controlled waters as while the potential impact would have occurred 
during the construction phase, the sensitivity of the receptor remains high although 
the magnitude is considered to be negligible. This is not significant. 
Human Health: Site Workers 
10.7.41 Operation and maintenance of the Project is anticipated to have a Minor adverse 
effect on the human health as while the potential impact would have occurred 
during the construction phase, the sensitivity of the receptor remains high although 
the magnitude is considered to be negligible. This is not significant. 
iv. Project 
10.7.42 Overall, it is considered that the operational phase and maintenance of the Project 
will have a localised, Minor adverse significance of effect on mineral resources 
(sand, gravel and reserves), peat deposits and agricultural land. Stability effects on 
structures have been assessed as Minor beneficial and effects on controlled 
waters, structures and human health have been assessed as Minor adverse 
significance.  
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 10: GEOLOGY, GROUND CONDITIONS AND HYDROGEOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
 
 
 
 
AECOM 
10-43 
 
Table 10-13: Summary of Potential Impacts during the Operation Phases of the Project 
Receptor 
Receptor 
Sensitivity 
Type of Effect 
Magnitude 
 
Classification of effect (pre- 
mitigation) 
Power Generation Plant 
Geology and Soil - 
sand and gravel, coal 
and peat reserves and 
agricultural land 
Medium 
Sterilisation of available mineral 
deposits for extraction and agricultural 
land. 
Negligible 
 
Minor Adverse 
Local spatial extent 
Direct. Permanent  
Structures (Potential 
injuries / fatalities, 
loss or damage to 
Plant and Structures) 
High 
Stabilisation of previously unstable 
ground from previous mining activities 
/workings / compressible ground 
conditions 
Negligible 
 
Minor Beneficial Local Extent 
Direct. Permanent 
 
End structure 
High 
Chemical attack on foundations and 
other subsurface structures 
Negligible 
 
Minor  Adverse  
Local Extent 
Direct. Temporary 
Quality of land and or 
Controlled waters 
High 
Incorrect storage / transport / use of 
materials leading to spills / leaks 
contaminating soils, groundwater or 
surface waters 
Negligible 
 
Minor Adverse  
Local Extent 
Direct. Temporary  
Human health: Site 
workers 
High 
N/A 
Negligible 
 
Minor Adverse   
Local extent 
Direct. Temporary                           
Gas Connection  
Geology and Soil - 
sand and gravel, coal 
and peat reserves and 
agricultural land 
Medium 
Sterilisation of available mineral 
deposits for extraction and agricultural 
land. 
Negligible 
 
Minor Adverse 
Local spatial extent 
Direct. Permanent  
End structure 
High 
Chemical attack on Gas Pipeline. 
Negligible    
Minor Adverse  
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 10: GEOLOGY, GROUND CONDITIONS AND HYDROGEOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
 
 
 
 
AECOM 
10-44 
 
Receptor 
Receptor 
Sensitivity 
Type of Effect 
Magnitude 
 
Classification of effect (pre- 
mitigation) 
 
Local Extent 
Direct. Temporary 
Controlled waters 
 
High 
Incorrect storage / transport / use of 
materials leading to spills / leaks 
contaminating soils, groundwater or 
surface waters 
Negligible 
 
Minor Adverse  
Local Extent 
Direct. Temporary  
Human health: Site 
workers 
High 
N/A 
Negligible 
 
Minor Adverse   
Local extent 
Direct. Temporary                           
Electrical Connection 
Geology and Soil - 
sand and gravel, coal 
and peat reserves and 
agricultural land 
Medium 
Sterilisation of available mineral 
deposits for extraction and agricultural 
land. 
Negligible 
 
Minor Adverse 
Local spatial extent 
Direct. Permanent  
End structure 
High 
Chemical attack on underground Gas 
Pipeline 
Negligible    
 
Minor Adverse  
Local Extent 
Direct. Temporary 
Controlled waters 
 
High 
Incorrect storage / transport / use of 
materials leading to spills / leaks 
contaminating soils, groundwater or 
surface waters 
Negligible 
 
Minor Adverse  
Local Extent 
Direct. Temporary  
Human health: Site 
workers 
High 
N/A 
Negligible 
 
Minor Adverse   
Local extent 
Direct. Temporary                           
Project 
Geology and Soil - 
Medium 
Sterilisation of available mineral 
Negligible 
Minor Adverse 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 10: GEOLOGY, GROUND CONDITIONS AND HYDROGEOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
 
 
 
 
AECOM 
10-45 
 
Receptor 
Receptor 
Sensitivity 
Type of Effect 
Magnitude 
 
Classification of effect (pre- 
mitigation) 
sand and gravel, coal 
and peat reserves and 
agricultural land 
deposits for extraction and agricultural 
land. 
 
Local spatial extent 
Direct. Permanent  
Structures (Potential 
injuries / fatalities, 
loss or damage to 
Plant and Structures) 
High 
Stabilisation of previously unstable 
ground from previous mining activities 
/workings / compressible ground 
conditions 
Negligible 
 
Minor Beneficial Local Extent 
Direct. Permanent 
 
Controlled waters, 
structures and human 
health 
High 
Chemical attack, impacts to human 
health and controlled waters 
Negligible 
 
 
Minor Adverse  
Local Extent 
Direct. Temporary 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 10: GEOLOGY, GROUND CONDITIONS AND HYDROGEOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
10-46 
 
 
 
 
 
 
c) 
Decommissioning 
i. 
Power Generation Plant 
Geology and Soil 
10.7.43 The Power Generation Plant will be returned to a pre-construction condition. The 
potential mineral reserves underlying the Power Generation Plant that may have 
been sterilised during the construction and operation phases of the Project may 
become available again. The significance of the effect is therefore considered to be 
Minor adverse which is not significant.    
10.7.44 If mine workings are stabilised as part of the pre-construction works, the land will 
be returned to a better than baseline condition which will enable future 
development. The coal reserves are considered to be of low sensitivity due to 
minimal economic use however the magnitude of the impact is assessed as high, 
as the baseline has fundamentally been changed. The significance of the effect is 
therefore considered to be Moderate beneficial which is significant.    
10.7.45 Agricultural Land 
10.7.46 The Power Generation Plant will be returned to a pre-construction condition. 
Therefore the land will become available for agricultural use once again. The 
sensitivity of the agricultural land is considered negligible due to the low quality 
nature of the land and the magnitude considered to be low due to the permanent 
loss of surface soils.  This is anticipated to result in a Negligible effect which is not 
significant.  
Controlled Waters 
10.7.47 If piled foundations are used, these will likely be retained in the ground following 
decommissioning of the Power Generation Plant as this would create less direct 
disturbance to the groundwater regime and ground conditions. The sensitivity of the 
groundwater is assessed as high due to the Secondary Aquifer designation and the 
presence of water abstractions and private water supplies.  The magnitude of this 
effect is however assessed as negligible as there will only be a minor shift from 
baseline conditions. The significance of the effects considered to be Minor adverse 
which is not significant. 
10.7.48 There is potential for the accidental release of stored fuels and chemicals directly 
affecting localised areas of the land or groundwater quality, during the 
decommissioning of the Project. These pollution incidents may occur due to 
incorrect storage / transport / use of materials such as fuels, oils and chemicals. 
With containment in place, any accidents may result in the containment system 
being affected and a greater risk of measures being defeated. The sensitivity of the 
groundwater is assessed as high due to the Secondary Aquifer designation and the 
presence of water abstractions and private water supplies.  Once the embedded 
mitigation such as pollution control measures has been taken into account, the 
magnitude of effect is considered to be negligible. The significance of the effects 
has therefore been assessed as Minor adverse which is not significant. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 10: GEOLOGY, GROUND CONDITIONS AND HYDROGEOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
10-47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Human Health: Demolition Workers 
10.7.49 The demolition workers are considered to have high sensitivity as groundworks will 
be required during demolition and as such the workforce may be in direct contact 
with soil and groundwater. The construction phase of the project is likely to have 
addressed any contamination issues within soils which would have the potential to 
affect the health of demolition workers adversely and once embedded mitigation 
measures detailed in the CEMP are taken into account it is considered to have a 
Negligible effect which is considered to be not significant. 
ii. Gas Connection 
10.7.50 The decommissioning works associated with the Gas Connection will include the 
Gas Pipeline being capped and left in situ. The AGI will be removed and land will 
be returned to a pre-construction condition.  
Geology and Soil - Sand and Gravel, Coal and Peat Reserves 
10.7.51 The Gas Pipeline is to be left in situ and a narrow strip of land and potentially any 
easement permanently sterilised until it is removed for any future development. The 
sand, gravel and coal reserves are considered to be of low sensitivity due to 
minimal economic use. The magnitude of the impact is assessed as low, as while 
there will be permanent constraint on future extraction, a relatively small area of the 
mineral reserves will be affected compared to the full extent.  The significance of 
the effects is therefore considered to be Minor adverse which is not significant.   
10.7.52 The decommissioning of the AGI is anticipated to make potential mineral reserves 
that may have been sterilised during the construction and operation phases of the 
Project become available again. The sand, gravel and coal reserves are considered 
to be of low sensitivity due to minimal economic use. The magnitude of the impact 
is assessed as low, as the underlying composition of the mineral reserves will be 
similar to the pre-development situation. The significance of the effect is therefore 
considered to be Minor adverse which is not significant.    
Agricultural Land 
10.7.53 The Gas Connection will be left in situ and the narrow strip of land therefore 
permanently sterilised until it is removed for any future development. The AGI land 
area will be returned to a pre-construction condition. Therefore the land will become 
available for agricultural use once again. The sensitivity of the agricultural land is 
considered low, as while there will be permanent constraint on future agricultural 
only a relatively small area will be affected and the land is considered to be low 
quality in nature. The magnitude considered low due to the permanent loss of low 
quality surface soils.  This is anticipated to result in a Minor adverse effect which is 
not significant.  
Controlled Waters 
10.7.54 There is potential for the accidental release of stored fuels and chemicals directly 
affecting localised areas of the land or groundwater quality, during the 
decommissioning of the Project. These pollution incidents may occur due to 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 10: GEOLOGY, GROUND CONDITIONS AND HYDROGEOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
10-48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
incorrect storage / transport / use of materials such as fuels, oils and chemicals. 
With containment in place, any accidents may result in the containment system 
being affected and a greater risk of measures being defeated. The sensitivity of the 
groundwater is assessed as high due to the Secondary Aquifer designation and the 
presence of water abstractions and private water supplies.  Once the embedded 
mitigation such as pollution control measures has been taken into account, the 
magnitude of effect is considered to be negligible. The significance of the effects 
has therefore been assessed as Minor adverse which is not significant. 
Human Health: Demolition Workers 
10.7.55 The demolition workers are considered to have high sensitivity as groundworks will 
be required during demolition and as such the workforce may be in direct contact 
with soil and groundwater. The construction phase of the project is likely to have 
addressed any contamination issues within soils which would have the potential to 
affect the health of demolition workers adversely and once embedded mitigation 
measures detailed in the CEMP are taken into account it is considered to have a 
negligible magnitude of effect. The significance of the effects has therefore been 
assessed as Minor adverse which is not significant.  
iii. Electrical Connection  
Geology and Soil - Sand and Gravel, Coal and Peat Reserves 
10.7.56 The decommissioning works will include the Electrical Connection being capped 
and left in situ and the narrow strip of land and potentially an easement therefore 
permanently sterilised until it is removed for any future development. The sand, 
gravel and coal reserves are considered to be of low sensitivity due to minimal 
economic use. The magnitude of the impact is assessed as low, as while there will 
be permanent constraint on future extraction, a relatively small area of the mineral 
reserves will be affected compared to the full extent. The significance of the effects 
is therefore considered to be Minor adverse which is not significant.    
Agricultural Land 
10.7.57 The Electrical Connection will be left in situ therefore the land will become available 
for agricultural use once again. There is anticipated to be permanent sterilisation of 
narrow strip of land directly over the cable and any potential easement. The 
sensitivity of the agricultural land is considered negligible due to the low quality 
nature of the land and the magnitude considered to be low due to the permanent 
loss of low quality surface soils.  This is anticipated to result in a Negligible effect 
which is not significant.  
Controlled Waters 
10.7.58 There is potential for the accidental release of stored fuels and chemicals directly 
affecting localised areas of the land or groundwater quality, during the 
decommissioning of the Project. These pollution incidents may occur due to 
incorrect storage / transport / use of materials such as fuels, oils and chemicals. 
With containment in place, any accidents may result in the containment system 
being affected and a greater risk of measures being defeated. The sensitivity of the 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 10: GEOLOGY, GROUND CONDITIONS AND HYDROGEOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
10-49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
groundwater is assessed as high due to the Secondary Aquifer designation and the 
presence of water abstractions and private water supplies.  Once the embedded 
mitigation such as pollution control measures has been taken into account, the 
magnitude of effect is considered to be negligible. The significance of the effects 
has therefore been assessed as Minor adverse which is not significant. 
Human Health: Demolition Workers 
10.7.59 The demolition workers are considered to have high sensitivity as groundworks will 
be required during demolition and as such the workforce may be in direct contact 
with soil and groundwater. The construction phase of the project is likely to have 
addressed any contamination issues within soils which would have the potential to 
affect the health of demolition workers adversely and once embedded mitigation 
measures detailed in the CEMP are taken into account it is considered to have a 
negligible magnitude of effect. The significance of the effects has therefore been 
assessed as Minor adverse which is not significant.  
iv. Project 
10.7.60 Overall, it is considered that the decommissioning phase of the Project will have a 
localised, Minor adverse significance of effect on mineral resources (sand, gravel 
and reserves), peat deposits and agricultural land. Stability effects on structures 
have been assessed as moderate beneficial and effects on controlled waters and 
human health from contamination have been assessed as Minor adverse 
significance. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 10: GEOLOGY, GROUND CONDITIONS AND HYDROGEOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
10-50 
 
Table 10-14: Summary of Potential Impacts Following Decommissioning 
Receptor 
Receptor 
Sensitivity 
Type of Effect 
Magnitude 
 
Classification of effect 
(pre- mitigation) 
Power Generation Plant 
Mineral resources – 
sand, gravel and coal 
reserves 
Low 
Previously sterilised mineral reserves will 
become available again for extraction if all 
development is decommissioned to 
preconstruction condition.  
Low 
 
Minor Adverse 
Local spatial extent 
Direct. Permanent  
Low 
If mine workings are stabilised as part of 
pre-construction works land will be returned 
to better than baseline condition. 
High 
Moderate beneficial  
Local extent 
Direct. Permanent 
Agricultural land 
Low 
Previously sterilised Grade 4 agricultural 
land will become available again for use 
Low 
Minor Adverse 
Local extent 
Direct. Permanent 
Controlled waters 
High 
If piles are used, they will likely be retained 
to create less direct disturbance 
Negligible  
Minor adverse 
Local extent 
Direct. Permanent  
High 
Incorrect storage / transport / use of 
materials leading to spills / leaks 
contaminating soils, groundwater or surface 
waters 
Negligible 
Minor Adverse 
Local extent 
Direct. Temporary 
Human Health: 
Demolition Workers 
High 
Disturbance and mobilisation of potentially 
contaminated soils, groundwater, ground 
gas impacting on human health, ground 
instability 
Negligible 
Minor Adverse  
Local extent 
Direct. Temporary 
Gas Connection  
Mineral resources – 
sand, gravel and coal 
reserves 
Low 
The Gas Pipeline to be capped and left in-
situ. Permanent sterilisation of narrow strip 
of land and potential easement. 
Low 
 
Minor Adverse  
Local extent 
Direct. Permanent 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 10: GEOLOGY, GROUND CONDITIONS AND HYDROGEOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
10-51 
 
Receptor 
Receptor 
Sensitivity 
Type of Effect 
Magnitude 
 
Classification of effect 
(pre- mitigation) 
Agricultural Land 
Low 
Previously sterilised Grade 4 agricultural 
land available for use however permanent 
loss of surface soils. 
Low 
Minor Adverse 
Local extent 
Direct. Permanent 
Controlled Waters 
High 
Incorrect storage / transport / use of 
materials leading to spills / leaks 
contaminating soils, groundwater or surface 
waters 
Negligible 
Minor Adverse 
Local extent 
Direct. Temporary 
Human Health: 
Demolition Workers 
High 
Disturbance and mobilisation of potentially 
contaminated soils, groundwater, ground 
gas impacting on human health, ground 
instability 
Negligible 
Minor Adverse 
Local extent 
Direct. Temporary 
Electrical Connection 
Mineral resources – 
sand, gravel and coal 
reserves 
Low 
Electrical Connection to be capped and left 
in-situ. Permanent sterilisation of narrow 
strip of land and potential easement. 
Low 
 
Minor Adverse  
Local extent 
Direct. Permanent 
Agricultural Land 
Low 
Previously sterilised Grade 4 agricultural 
land available for use however permanent 
loss of surface soils. 
Low 
Minor Adverse 
Local extent 
Direct. Permanent 
Controlled Waters 
High 
Incorrect storage / transport / use of 
materials leading to spills / leaks 
contaminating soils, groundwater or surface 
waters 
Negligible 
Minor Adverse 
Local extent 
Direct. Temporary 
Human Health: 
Demolition Workers 
High 
Disturbance and mobilisation of potentially 
contaminated soils, groundwater, ground 
gas impacting on human health, ground 
instability 
 
Negligible 
Minor Adverse 
Local extent 
Direct. Temporary 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 10: GEOLOGY, GROUND CONDITIONS AND HYDROGEOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
10-52 
 
Receptor 
Receptor 
Sensitivity 
Type of Effect 
Magnitude 
 
Classification of effect 
(pre- mitigation) 
Project 
Geology and soils - sand, 
gravel and coal reserves 
and agricultural land 
Low 
Previously sterilised agricultural land and 
future mineral resources becoming available 
again 
Low  
Minor Adverse 
Local spatial extent 
Direct. Permanent  
Mineral resources – coal 
reserves 
Low  
Land is stabilised as part of pre-construction 
works 
High 
Moderate beneficial  
Local extent 
Direct. Permanent 
Controlled waters and 
human health  
High 
Impacts to human health and controlled 
waters from contamination 
Negligible 
Minor Adverse  
Local extent 
Direct. Permanent to 
Temporary 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 10: GEOLOGY, GROUND CONDITIONS AND HYDROGEOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
10-53 
 
10.8 
Additional Mitigation Measures 
10.8.1 As a general rule, additional mitigation measures are proposed where a significant 
effect is predicted to occur.  Embedded mitigation measures, which have been 
incorporated within the design of the Project or are standard practice measures that 
have been committed to are summarised in Chapter 3: Project and Site Description 
and have been taken account of in the assessment described above. These include 
the ground investigation which is expected to be undertaken post-consent and as 
required by a DCO Requirement.  
10.8.2 The impact assessment detailed in Section 10.7 has not indicated the presence of 
any significant effects that would require additional mitigation measures. It is not 
anticipated that any requirement for monitoring.   
10.9 
Residual Effects 
10.9.1 There were no significant effects identified during the life cycle of the Power 
Generation Plant, Gas Connection, Electrical Connection, or the Project. Therefore, 
there are no residual effects identified and therefore no additional mitigation 
measures were deemed necessary.    
10.10 Cumulative Effects 
10.10.1 It is considered that there is no potential for cumulative impacts on geology, ground 
conditions and hydrogeology receptors as a result of construction, operation and 
maintenance or decommissioning of the Project in combination with other schemes 
for the following reasons: 
 Solar park developments such as Abergelli Solar Farm and Brynwhilach Solar 
Park would not impact significantly on the geology and hydrogeology of the 
Project Site as it is understood there would be limited excavation works for the 
construction of those projects. The identified potential impacts on the geology 
and hydrogeology of the Project would comprise accidental pollution incidents 
during the construction phase.  This would not have a cumulative effect with the 
other projects. 
 Based on information available at this time, it is anticipated that the planning 
applications for the sustainable urban village at Felindre, and Felindre Business 
Park will not have an impact on geology and hydrogeology such that a 
cumulative impact would occur alongside the Project’s impacts; and  
 The development of the Project or other planned developments within the area 
are not anticipated to have any cumulative effects as they will not likely create a 
larger contamination or ground instability impact than the individual projects 
taken in isolation. In addition, none of the planned developments will remove 
large amounts of good quality agricultural land or sites of important geology. 
 
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 10: GEOLOGY, GROUND CONDITIONS AND HYDROGEOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
10-54 
 
10.11 References 
Ref. 10.1 
Parson Brinckerhoff.  Preliminary Geo-Environmental Risk Assessment. 
March 2014  
Ref. 10.2 
Directive 2010/75/EU on industrial emissions (integrated pollution prevention 
and control) 
Ref. 10.3 
Directive 2000/60/EC Water Framework Directive 
Ref. 10.4 
Directive 2006/118/EC Groundwater Framework Directive.  
Ref. 10.5 
Decision No. 1386/2013/EU. General Union Environment Action Programme 
to 2020 ‘Living well, within the limits of our planet’. November 2013 
Ref. 10.6 
Department of Energy and Climate Change.  Overarching National Policy 
Statement for Energy (EN1).  July 2011. 
Ref. 10.7 
Department of Energy and Climate Change.  National Policy Statement for 
Gas Supply Infrastructure and Gas and Oil Pipelines (EN-4). July 2011. 
Ref. 10.8 
Department of Energy and Climate Change. National Policy Statement for 
Electricity Networks Infrastructure (EN-5). July 2011 
Ref. 10.9 
Environmental Protection Act 1990, Part 2A (Contaminated Land).       
Ref. 10.10 
Environment Agency.  Model Procedures for the Management of Land 
Contamination (Contaminated Land Report 11 (CLR11)). 2004                                             
Ref. 10.11 
Environment Agency. Guiding Principles for Land Contamination. August 
2016.   
Ref. 10.12 
Environment Agency. The Environment Agency’s approach to groundwater 
protection. March 2017. 
Ref. 10.13 
CIRIA. Control of water pollution from construction sites (C532). 2001 
Ref. 10.14 
CIRIA. The SuDS (Sustainable Urban Drainage Systems) manual (C753). 
2015. 
Ref. 10.15 
CIRIA. The SuDS manual (C697). 2007 
Ref. 10.16 
CIRIA. Environmental good practice on site guide (C741). 2015 
Ref. 10.17 
CIRIA. Assessing risks posed by hazardous ground gases to buildings 
(C665). 2007 
Ref. 10.18 
CIRIA. Contaminated land risk assessment - a guide to good practice (C552). 
2001.  
Ref. 10.19 
Welsh Government. Planning Policy Wales. Edition 9, November 2016.   
Ref. 10.20 
Welsh Assembly Government. Planning Policy Wales Technical Advice Note 
5.  Nature Conservation and Planning. September 2009. 
Ref. 10.21 
City and County of Swansea. Unitary Development Plan (UDP) Proposals 
Map. 
November 
2008. 
(Online) 
Available 
from 
URL 
address: 
http://swansea.devplan.org.uk/map.aspx?map=41&layers=all 
(accessed 
October 2017) 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 10: GEOLOGY, GROUND CONDITIONS AND HYDROGEOLOGY 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
10-55 
 
Ref. 10.22 
The Planning Inspectorate. Scoping Opinion Proposed Abergelli Power 
Project. August 2014 
Ref. 10.23 
British Geological Survey. Digital Geological map of Great Britain at 1:50,000 
scale. (Online) Available from URL address: www.bgs.ac.uk/geoindex 
(accessed October 2017) 
Ref. 10.24 
Natural Environment Research Council. The BGS Lexicon of Named Rock 
Units - Grovesend Formation. 2017 (Online) Available from URL address: 
http://www.bgs.ac.uk/lexicon/lexicon.cfm?pub=GDB (accessed October 2017) 
Ref. 10.25 
National Resources Wales. Long term Flood Risk. 2017. (Online) Available 
from URL address: https://www.naturalresourceswales.gov.uk/evidence-and-
data/maps/long-term-flood-risk/?lang=en (accessed October 2017) 
 
 
 
