Favero et al., Sci. Adv. 2020; 6 : eaay6792     25 March 2020
SCIE N C E A D V A NCES | RESEA R CH  A RT ICL E
1 of 13
BIOENERGY
Forests: Carbon sequestration, biomass energy,  
or both?
Alice Favero1, Adam Daigneault2*, Brent Sohngen3
There is a continuing debate over the role that woody bioenergy plays in climate mitigation. This paper clarifies 
this controversy and illustrates the impacts of woody biomass demand on forest harvests, prices, timber management 
investments and intensity, forest area, and the resulting carbon balance under different climate mitigation policies. 
Increased bioenergy demand increases forest carbon stocks thanks to afforestation activities and more intensive 
management relative to a no-bioenergy case. Some natural forests, however, are converted to more intensive 
management, with potential biodiversity losses. Incentivizing both wood-based bioenergy and forest sequestration 
could increase carbon sequestration and conserve natural forests simultaneously. We conclude that the expanded 
use of wood for bioenergy will result in net carbon benefits, but an efficient policy also needs to regulate forest 
carbon sequestration.
INTRODUCTION
A long literature establishes that forests are an efficient carbon sink 
through actions such as afforestation, forest management, and reduced 
deforestation (1–5). In recent years, forest-based actions have gained 
additional policy relevance as many countries have included forest 
sequestration activities in their nationally determined contributions 
toward reducing net carbon emissions as part of the Paris Agree-
ment (6, 7). At the same time, there have been increasing efforts in 
the United States and Europe to use wood as a source of biomass 
energy, under the assumption that wood-based energy is “carbon 
neutral” (8, 9). Last, most pathways that aim to restrict global average 
temperature to 1.5°C by 2100 rely on large-scale deployment of 
afforestation actions and biomass used in power plants with carbon 
capture and storage (BECCS) (10).
The role that forests should play in mitigating climate change is 
still widely debated. Some researchers have argued that forest-based 
biomass energy is not carbon neutral (11–13) and, thus, that forest- 
based bioenergy should not be allowed to offset other energy sources 
under renewable energy standards. These assessments have suggested 
that when forest biomass energy is generated, it creates a carbon 
emission to the atmosphere that may, or may not, be taken back up 
by trees that grow in the future. Even if regrowth does occur, it occurs 
slowly over time, increasing global climate damages during the 
period when the released carbon is in the atmosphere. Given these 
concerns, some have argued that society should focus on enhancing 
carbon sinks rather than encouraging biomass energy (11, 13–15). 
Assessing whether forest biomass energy is carbon neutral is complex 
and sensitive to assumptions about the spatial and temporal scale of the 
analysis, feedstocks used, and supply chain emissions. Buchholz et al.’s 
(16) meta-analysis found that the payback period (i.e., the time re-
quired by the forest to recover through sequestration the carbon 
dioxide from biomass combusted for energy) ranged from zero to 
more than 1000 years. Birdsey et al. (17) conclude that increasing 
bioenergy production and pellet exports often increases net emis-
sions of greenhouse gases (GHGs) for decades or longer, depending 
on source of feedstock and its alternate fate, time horizon of analysis, 
energy emissions associated with the supply chain and fuel substitution, 
and impacts on carbon cycling of forest ecosystems. The studies 
examined in these two reviews, however, ignore economic analysis 
that accounts for the interactions between demand and supply and 
forest management (18–23). These interactions include assessment 
of the opportunity costs of intensified harvesting and management, 
as well as expansion of intensive timber harvesting activities into 
extensive (e.g., unmanaged) regions.
This paper examines key issues related to the consequences of 
bioenergy policies on forests and carbon emissions, namely, manage-
ment response, the efficiency of the policy, and the impacts of 
increasing biomass demand on forest ecosystem services. To analyze 
these issues, we use a dynamic global forest model that accounts for 
the biological and economic responses to various policy incentives 
on forest management and carbon fluxes in all regions of the world 
(22, 23). Such integrated assessment modeling of the forest sector 
provides important insights into the temporal and spatial scale of 
forest management efforts that must be undertaken to increase wood 
flow in the face of large, new biomass energy demands, as well as their 
interactions with carbon policies. The analysis clarifies how various 
policy incentives for biomass energy and carbon sequestration in-
fluence the net exchange of carbon between the atmosphere and forested 
ecosystems. Last, a sensitivity analysis tests the results under different 
assumptions on land constraints and economic parameters.
RESULTS
The debate behind woody biomass for energy
Three critical issues have arisen in the literature related to the use of 
woody biomass for energy. First, the impact of biomass energy policies 
on carbon depends on the supply response, which include investments 
in new forests, increased management of existing forests, harvests 
of inaccessible and unmanaged forests in the extensive margin, con-
version of those forests to more intensive uses, and substitution across 
product uses. Studies that assume there is little to no management 
response, or consider only use of the extensive margin, predict that 
bioenergy demand will increase carbon emissions (16, 17). Studies 
that allow efficient investments in forestry management find that 
bioenergy policies lead to a net increase in forest sequestration (18–22). 
A key determinant rests on the response of land use and management 
1Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta, GA, USA. 2University of Maine, Orono, ME, 
USA. 3Ohio State University, Columbus, OH, USA.
*Corresponding author. Email: adam.daigneault@maine.edu
Copyright © 2020 
The Authors, some 
rights reserved; 
exclusive licensee 
American Association 
for the Advancement 
of Science. No claim to 
original U.S. Government 
Works. Distributed 
under a Creative 
Commons Attribution 
NonCommercial 
License 4.0 (CC BY-NC).
Downloaded from http://advances.sciencemag.org/ on June 25, 2020
Favero et al., Sci. Adv. 2020; 6 : eaay6792     25 March 2020
SCIE N C E A D V A NCES | RESEA R CH  A RT ICL E
2 of 13
to the price changes induced by bioenergy policy. If models include 
management responses, higher prices invariably encourage more 
management and forest area, and thus, biomass energy policies reduce 
net emissions over time. Alternatively, if forest land area and forest 
management do not change or decline with biomass energy policies, 
and there is additional harvesting of unmanaged stocks, then the 
policies typically result in net emissions. It is, thus, important to 
isolate the role of management on forest carbon stocks.
Second, studies suggesting that biomass energy should be taxed 
have ignored the literature showing the efficient economic treatment 
of carbon fluxes between the atmosphere and forests in the broader 
carbon cycle (4). From the perspective of the atmosphere, a ton of 
CO2 in forests is a ton not in the atmosphere, suggesting that the 
social cost of carbon can be used to value carbon exchanges, or fluxes, 
between the atmosphere and ecosystems (24). Two equally efficient 
schemes have been proposed in the literature to credit carbon fluxes 
between the atmosphere and forests: a carbon rental approach (4) 
and a carbon tax and subsidy approach (25). Under both approaches, 
the efficient climate policy counts emissions when forests are used 
for energy or wood products as an increase in atmospheric carbon, 
but they also count sequestration that occurs when forests grow. 
Bioenergy emissions can be taxed like other GHGs under an effi-
cient approach to credit carbon fluxes, but only if the benefits of 
storing carbon in forested ecosystem are also recognized and sub-
sidized (25). That is, a policy that taxes forest-based bioenergy with-
out recognizing that forests also sequester carbon through growth 
[the Schlesinger proposition (26)] is inefficient and will lead to too 
little carbon in forests and too much carbon in the atmosphere.
Third, there are concerns that ecosystem services and biodiversity 
provided by primary forests could be affected if harvests are diverted 
from traditional wood products to bioenergy (13, 14) or the level 
and quality of standing biomass on managed forests are diminished 
due to higher levels of residue removals (27), shorter rotations (28, 29), 
or more land moved from no/low management to more intensive 
management. Concerns with ecosystem services, however, tend to 
focus on the effects of biomass harvests at individual sites (13, 14). 
While more intensive harvesting will be a consequence of any bio-
mass energy policy that increases the demand for wood, intensification 
will not occur at a few selected sites, but across forests, especially 
under widespread biomass energy or carbon neutrality mandates. To 
gauge the full impacts of policies, models must be able to analyze the 
full spatial and temporal consequences on the global forest ecosystem.
In numbers: pro and cons of woody biomass demand
We use the dynamic global timber model (GTM) to assess how bio-
energy demand affects the forestry sector, forestland, and carbon 
sequestration (4, 30). GTM compares timber harvesting and manage-
ment in more than 200 managed and natural forest ecosystems 
across 16 world regions (fig. S1) under different bioenergy demand 
scenarios to a no-bioenergy demand scenario (22). The model used 
the Shared Socioeconomic Pathway (SSP) 2 marker scenario projec-
tions of gross domestic product (GDP) and population (31–33) 
to simulate forest product demand, while bioenergy demand projec-
tions [following the assumptions presented in Lauri et al. (34) that 
9% to 12% of total bioenergy demand is sourced by dedicated forest 
plantation; bioenergy is converted from gigajoules (GJ) to cubic meters 
(m3) of forest biomass using constant conversion factors of 7.2 GJ/m3] 
and carbon price paths under the same SSP2 scenario for each Inter-
governmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Representative Con-
centration Pathway (RCP) are used to simulate the future demand 
for woody biomass and the value of CO2 (fig. S2).
In general, bioenergy consumption is expected to increase with 
the stringency of the RCP target. For reference, under RCP 1.9—the 
scenario most consistent with a 1.5°C target—about 30% of the total 
energy supply through 2100 is estimated to be sourced from bioenergy 
with carbon capture and storage (BECCS) (33). Because bioenergy 
demand is expected to come from a variety of sources, we assume 
about one-third of the supply is provided by forests, which is con-
sistent with other global analyses (34). The model assumes a homo-
genous form of woody biomass energy demand without distinguishing 
types of woody biomass production. From the perspective of our 
model, this means that each type of wood that could be used as an 
input into biomass energy production is paid the same price.
Increasing demand for woody biomass will have noticeable impacts 
on the global forest sector compared with a no-policy baseline case 
(tables S2 to S4). Timber prices could more than triple if woody biomass 
consumption reaches 4.3 billion m3/year by the end of this century, 
as in the RCP 1.9 scenario (Fig. 1A). The model does account for the 
substitution between wood products and biomass, and the increasing 
demand for woody bioenergy negatively affects the industrial timber 
market. That is, there is a decline of between 30 and 80% in the pro-
duction of industrial timber over the century projected across the 
RCPs, with the largest reduction under RCP 1.9.
Higher timber prices incentivize afforestation across the globe 
(Fig. 1B). However, higher timber prices also encourage harvesting 
of natural forest areas (forest types are defined as follows: “plantation” = 
intensively managed plantations; “managed” = extensively managed, 
often naturally regenerating forests; “natural” = inaccessible, un-
managed natural forests) (Fig. 1C), which are replanted as a mix of 
low-managed forests and intensive plantations (Fig. 1D). Total global 
forest carbon sequestration is projected to increase only when the 
demand for woody biomass is large enough to encourage consumption 
greater than 1.1 billion m3/year by 2100, i.e., an RCP of less than 4.5 
(Fig. 1E). When biomass demand is lower than this level, it does not 
generate high enough timber prices to generate enough investments 
in forests or plantations to offset carbon losses that occur when forests 
are harvested. The carbon losses occur primarily in regions domi-
nated by large areas of remaining inaccessible forests, namely, Latin 
America, Southeast Asia, Canada, and Russia. Older forests have 
substantial carbon stocks that are not compensated. Eventually, if 
biomass energy demand is strong enough, investments in forests 
will outweigh losses, and carbon turns positive. The expenditure on 
forest management, as measured by dollars per hectare invested in 
replanting, also matters, as it increases with more stringent climate 
policy (Fig. 1F).
The model accounts for carbon stored in four different pools. 
The increase in carbon stocks is primarily driven by improvements 
in aboveground carbon, while more forestland marginally increases 
soil carbon due to afforestation relative to the baseline scenario. Carbon 
stored in harvested wood products is projected to decline under all 
policy scenarios because the increasing demand for woody biomass 
reduces the quantity of noncombusted wood products (fig. S4).
Expanding woody biomass energy could result in a 286 (RCP 6.0) 
to 1931 (RCP 1.9) m3/year increase in total timber harvesting com-
pared with the baseline scenario. Increases in harvests are not equally 
distributed across the globe though (Fig. 2), with the largest harvest 
increases expected in places where industrial wood harvesting is already 
an important part of the landscape and regional economy. For instance, 
Downloaded from http://advances.sciencemag.org/ on June 25, 2020
Favero et al., Sci. Adv. 2020; 6 : eaay6792     25 March 2020
SCIE N C E A D V A NCES | RESEA R CH  A RT ICL E
3 of 13
Fig. 1. Global impacts for increased wood-based bioenergy demand, 2010–2100. (A) Timber prices, (B) total forest area, (C) natural unmanaged forest area, (D) plan-
tation forest area, (E) total forest carbon stock (includes all the four carbon pools presented in fig S3), and (F) management investment relative to the baseline (no bioenergy 
demand). Black, RCP 1.9; red, RCP 2.6; green, RCP 3.4; blue, RCP 4.5; orange, RCP 6.0.
Downloaded from http://advances.sciencemag.org/ on June 25, 2020
Favero et al., Sci. Adv. 2020; 6 : eaay6792     25 March 2020
SCIE N C E A D V A NCES | RESEA R CH  A RT ICL E
4 of 13
in the RCP 3.4 case, U.S. harvests increase by an average of 27% over 
a 100-year period, while harvests in Southeast Asia and Russia only 
increase by 6 and 2%, respectively.
The increased demand for woody biomass encourages changes 
in forest management along several margins that are typically ignored 
in traditional life cycle analyses. First, the area of intensively managed 
plantations increases by up to 61 million hectares (Mha), or 60%, over 
the baseline (Fig. 1C). These plantations have rotation ages ranging from 
10 to 30 years and, thus, can be used to ramp up timber and biomass 
supply relatively quickly. We calculate that for every 1% increase in 
timber price, the area of plantations increases by 0.32% globally.
Second, forests that currently have limited management become 
more intensively managed via increased investment in harvesting and 
replanting, thinning, fertilizing, and other actions. Every 100 million 
m3 of additional woody biomass energy supply could create 5.6 Mha 
of more intensively managed forests. Higher prices provide a market 
signal to landowners, who will take steps to increase their forest 
stocks via expanding the area in managed forests and/or improving 
management activities (18, 35). Expenditures on forest management 
could increase by an average of $230 per hectare on managed forests 
due to the increase in woody biomass demand, nearly 70% greater 
than the mean baseline expenditure estimate (Fig. 1F). Some of the 
land that we project that will become intensively managed is cur-
rently ecologically sensitive and/or high in biodiversity. Assuming 
that there are no other forest carbon sequestration incentives or forest 
conservation policies in effect, we estimate that if woody biomass 
demand rises to 4 billion m3/year, as under RCP 1.9, about 15% of 
global natural forest area, or 250 Mha, could be converted to a more 
intensive management regime (fig. S5). These results confirm that 
“standard” bioenergy policy targeting woody biomass generally has 
a negative impact on the world’s natural unmanaged or inaccessible 
forests. However, these natural forests will not be converted to agri-
culture, as economic incentives offset losses through planting forests 
managed at different degrees of intensity and avoided deforestation 
of managed forests (fig. S5).
Third, other land will be converted to forests and, thus, increase 
the absolute area of forests globally. The largest demand scenario 
(RCP 1.9) estimates a potential increase in forest area by 1.1 billion 
ha, 30% more than the current forest cover by 2100 (Fig. 1B). This 
is within the bounds of the recent paper by Bastin et al. (36), who 
identify an area of 1.6 billion ha of additional land that could support 
forests, of which 0.9 billion ha are located outside valuable cropland 
and urban regions. For this study, we used the 1.6 billion ha as an 
upper bound for our simulations, and in the sensitivity analysis, we 
tested the results under the more stringent 0.9 billion limit. The 
1.1 billion ha estimate is large but not an outlier (fig. S6). Our results 
are confirmed by integrated assessment models (IAMs) with land 
modules and crop prices, which suggest that global forest area could 
increase by up to 1.0 billion and that about 5.4 billion ha could be 
covered by forests under the RCP 1.9 stabilization scenario with 
approximately 1.9 billion ha new forestland (31, 33).
While we do not explicitly model crop production or prices, our 
model incorporates land rental functions that require paying higher 
prices to rent land as more land is used for forests. The increases in 
rents that we project are consistent with other studies in the literature. 
Under the RCP 1.9 scenario, our global average land rents between 
now and 2100 are estimated to be four times higher than the base-
line rents. Popp et al. (37) similarly shows that agricultural land for 
food and feed production declines as more land is used for bioenergy 
and carbon sequestration. They do not present estimates of land rents, 
but they do show that crop prices could be between two to six times 
higher than the baseline under a high mitigation scenario.
An efficient approach to carbon management
This section illustrates the difference between an efficient carbon 
management approach, which incentivizes both sequestration and 
Fig. 2. Mean change in total regional harvests relative to the baseline, 2010–2100. 
Downloaded from http://advances.sciencemag.org/ on June 25, 2020
Favero et al., Sci. Adv. 2020; 6 : eaay6792     25 March 2020
SCIE N C E A D V A NCES | RESEA R CH  A RT ICL E
5 of 13
avoidance of emissions, and an inefficient approach that only uses a 
carbon tax to incentivize the avoidance of emissions from woody 
biomass production. An efficient approach to manage carbon ex-
changes between the atmosphere and the biosphere can be accom-
plished by using either a carbon rental (4) or a carbon tax and subsidy 
approach (25). Both of these efficient approaches recognize that 
emissions from biomass energy are like all other GHG emissions and 
that forest growth removes carbon from the atmosphere. On the other 
hand, a tax on emissions from bioenergy demand (penalty scenario) 
without an offsetting subsidy for carbon accumulation is an inefficient 
approach because it creates relatively less demand for forest products, 
depresses timber prices (Fig. 3A) and forest area (Fig. 3, B to D), 
Fig. 3. Global impacts for alternative wood-based bioenergy policies, 2010–2100. (A) Timber price and changes in (B) total forest area, (C) natural forest area, (D) forest 
plantation area, (E) total forest carbon stock, and (F) management investment relative to the baseline (no bioenergy demand). Dashed, carbon penalty; solid, forest carbon 
rental; black, RCP 1.9; red, RCP 2.6; green, RCP 3.4; blue, RCP 4.5; orange, RCP 6.0.
Downloaded from http://advances.sciencemag.org/ on June 25, 2020
Favero et al., Sci. Adv. 2020; 6 : eaay6792     25 March 2020
SCIE N C E A D V A NCES | RESEA R CH  A RT ICL E
6 of 13
lowers investment in forest management (Fig. 3F), and, thus, leads 
to lower forest carbon stocks (Fig. 3E) compared with the efficient 
approach (carbon rental scenario). That is, under any given demand 
for woody biomass, an approach that only penalizes emissions will 
deliver less carbon sequestration than the efficient rental approach. 
Moreover, timber prices are higher under the rental scenario because 
there are additional benefits associated with holding carbon in forests, 
thereby potentially reducing the annual timber supply.
Critically, the penalty approach, as suggested by Searchinger et al. 
(13), could cause a large reduction in the area of natural inaccessible 
forests of up to 200 Mha under the strong biomass energy demand 
of RCP 1.9 or 2.6 (Figs. 3C and 4). Without valuing standing stocks 
of forests through a subsidy for forest carbon sequestration, higher 
timber prices (Fig. 3A) provide a substantial incentive to convert 
natural forests to other forest types (Fig. 3B). The tax cannot avoid 
this outcome. The largest declines in natural forest areas under a 
penalty approach will occur under biomass demand higher than 
1.5 billion m3/year, mainly in the tropics, followed by the temperate 
zone (Fig. 4). In contrast, a carbon rental approach encourages pro-
tection of standing natural forests by valuing the standing stock, such 
as old growth harvests in boreal regions and unmanaged forests in 
the tropics. In particular, a combination of the high carbon prices 
and bioenergy demands (RCPs 2.6 and 1.9) will avoid future de-
forestation of tropical natural forests relative to the baseline. That 
is, opportunity costs of land are relatively low in the tropics, so there 
is a reduction in forestland conversion to cropland. Second, the carbon 
gains in the tropics are relatively fast and large, such that the rental 
values encourage substantial carbon sequestration comparing to tem-
perate and boreal forests.
Each of the policy approaches leads to more forestland globally 
over the next century, but estimates vary at the regional level (Fig. 5). 
In the cases where there is a penalty imposed on harvesting biomass, 
even with the relatively low carbon prices of RCPs 6.0 and 4.5, there 
could be 10 to 25% less forest cover in parts of the tropics by 2100 
compared with the forest carbon rent policy. The forest carbon 
rental payment approach is expected to increase forest cover across 
the globe, with the more stringent mitigation scenarios leading to 
increases of 50% or more in many parts of the world.
A forest carbon rental approach has sometimes been considered 
an infeasible climate change mitigation policy option because of the 
complexities with measuring and verifying changes in carbon stocks 
and possible governance issues in developing countries (35, 38). 
However, placing a tax on woody bioenergy could exacerbate one of 
the issues the policy is intended to prevent, namely, the loss of natural 
forests and associated ecosystem services. Despite this, we find that 
increasing the demand for wood-based bioenergy, regardless of the 
policy approach, will increase the total forest carbon in nearly all 
scenarios (Fig. 3E). Under the penalty scenario, average stocks could 
increase by 34 gigatonnes carbon dioxide eqiuvalent (GtCO2e) or 
about 1% compared with the baseline. This is equivalent to 0.4 GtCO2e/
year or 1.1% of 2018 global CO2 emissions (39). Including payments for 
forest carbon sequestration has additional benefits. Forest area could 
expand by 500 Mha or more, and total carbon stocks could increase by an 
average of 2.3 GtCO2e/year, offsetting 7.1% of current annual emissions 
(Fig. 3E). In nearly all scenarios, a majority of this net increase in car-
bon stocks is due to increases in aboveground carbon, while the substitu-
tion of some timber to bioenergy has a somewhat negative effect (fig. S7).
Growing wood-based bioenergy demand will positively affect forest 
management investment regardless of the policy approach, averaging 
about 80% above baseline investment. Demand for wood products 
in general will stimulate investment as landowners are expected to 
accrue a higher return. However, a forest carbon rental and increased 
biomass demand policy could double investment compared with the 
biomass penalty approach (Fig. 3F). Management decisions affect 
the amount of carbon stored in forests in different ways. First, GTM 
controls rotation ages, which influences carbon stocks on sites, with 
higher rotation ages leading to greater timber supply and more carbon, 
and vice versa. Second, under high bioenergy demand and/or carbon 
prices, the model projects more replanting, which, compared with 
natural regeneration, will increase average carbon on a site over a 
rotation. Third, GTM shifts species types over time in response to 
prices and land rental values. Fourth, the model shifts species from 
no management to modest management (harvesting with natural 
regeneration or harvesting with replanting in some cases, depending 
on value). In nearly all cases, this conversion of older forests to 
younger forests leads to more timber output but less carbon. Last, 
GTM includes management intensity on replanted land. This type 
of management intensity, which could include genetic selection, 
fertilizing, density controls, and other approaches, increases both 
carbon stocks and the value of timber. This type of management 
intensity is monitored in the model by the expenditure per hectare 
of forestland, with higher expenditures leading to more timber and 
more carbon.
Sensitivity test
We tested the effects of bioenergy demand on forestland and carbon 
sequestration and the efficiency of the rental approach relative to the 
penalty approach under a scenario in which forestland additions are 
limited to 0.9 billion ha, following Bastin et al. (36). Even under this 
constrained scenario, our findings are confirmed: Bioenergy demand 
will increase total forestland and forest carbon sequestration com-
pared with a no-bioenergy (baseline) scenario (Fig. 6, A and C), and 
the carbon rental policy provides an efficient approach to regulate 
the increasing demand for bioenergy by protecting natural forest-
land while providing woody biomass for energy at the same time 
(Fig. 6B). Although forest area does not expand as much with the 
tighter constraint, it is around 50% lower; forest carbon storage de-
clines by only 20 to 30%. Carbon declines proportionally less than 
forest area because forests are managed more intensively to increase 
timber production, and this in turn enhances carbon storage. Any 
time there is a conversion in natural forest areas from inaccessible 
to accessible and lightly managed forests, there is lower total carbon 
stored over time. Thus, the efficient carbon rental climate policy leads 
to more carbon by protecting more natural forests from conversion.
Additional sensitivity analysis that adjusts key model parameters 
such as the land supply elasticity, management response to forest 
investment, and the cost of accessing and clearing natural forests to 
half and double their original values indicates that our general find-
ings still hold (fig. S8). That is, higher biomass demand will increase 
the value of timberland, incentivize additional investment in forest 
management and afforestation, and result in greater forest carbon 
stocks over time, even if our model includes more pessimistic (i.e., 
less responsive) parameter values. However, the relative impact that 
each parameter has on the estimates varies. For example, a low land 
supply elasticity results in about half the afforestation rate of the 
high land supply elasticity case, simulating the potential effect if 
landowners are more resistant to converting their agricultural lands 
to forests. As a result, forest carbon stocks would still increase over 
Downloaded from http://advances.sciencemag.org/ on June 25, 2020
Favero et al., Sci. Adv. 2020; 6 : eaay6792     25 March 2020
SCIE N C E A D V A NCES | RESEA R CH  A RT ICL E
7 of 13
Fig. 4. Changes in global forest area by major ecosystem relative to baseline case under alternative wood-based bioenergy policies. Square, carbon penalty; circle, forest 
carbon rental; black, RCP 1.9; red, RCP 2.6; green, RCP 3.4; blue, RCP 4.5; orange, RCP 6.0.
Downloaded from http://advances.sciencemag.org/ on June 25, 2020
Favero et al., Sci. Adv. 2020; 6 : eaay6792     25 March 2020
SCIE N C E A D V A NCES | RESEA R CH  A RT ICL E
8 of 13
the next century, but at a rate that is about 40% less than most of the 
other sensitivity cases. Furthermore, our sensitivity analysis indi-
cated that estimates were most sensitive to the forest carbon rental 
scenarios, especially in the cases with high carbon prices that in-
centivize more competition between carbon, bioenergy, and timber 
production.
Fig. 5. Regional changes in forest area relative to 2010 for forest carbon rental and carbon penalty scenarios. 
Downloaded from http://advances.sciencemag.org/ on June 25, 2020
Favero et al., Sci. Adv. 2020; 6 : eaay6792     25 March 2020
SCIE N C E A D V A NCES | RESEA R CH  A RT ICL E
9 of 13
DISCUSSION
Projections using IAMs show that bioenergy demand is very likely 
to dominate under the 1.5° to 2°C target scenarios (10). Our study 
provides a comprehensive outlook of how this bioenergy future will 
affect forest harvests, prices, timber management investments, the 
area of forest, and forest carbon balance when market interactions 
and management responses are considered. Dynamic market and 
management responses are usually ignored in many environ-
mental studies that provide only a partial view of the ongoing 
debate about benefits and risks of increasing global bioenergy de-
mand (12–17, 36).
The results show that lower levels of bioenergy demand, consistent 
with RCPs 4.5 and 6.0, can lead to net carbon emissions if the higher 
prices encourage more harvesting of natural forests but not enough 
of an increase in investments in forest regeneration. For RCPs more 
stringent than 4.5, bioenergy demand is sufficiently high that it 
encourages strong enough investments in forest management to offset 
the negative effects of harvesting inaccessible and natural forests. Thus, 
for these higher levels of bioenergy demand, there are net positive 
effects on the global carbon balance, although there are notable 
impacts on natural forests. Across all ranges of bioenergy demand, 
efficient forest carbon sequestration policies can be deployed to ensure 
that forests are carbon neutral and that forest carbon stocks are main-
tained. Further, these efficient policies can significantly reduce the 
loss of inaccessible and natural forests. In contrast, inefficient policy 
proposals, such as taxing carbon emissions from biofuels without also 
accounting for the gains that accrue to forest growth, cause poten-
tially large losses of natural and inaccessible forests and lead to carbon 
emissions in some circumstances.
There are two important reasons why stocks are enhanced in the 
face of strongly growing demand. First, when demand grows, prices 
rise and landowners with growing forests will typically hold trees to 
take advantage of the rising prices, as there is a higher opportunity 
cost of felling them prematurely. If the demand for biomass energy 
turns out to be short-lived, lasting only a couple years, then land-
owners would be encouraged to harvest trees earlier than otherwise, 
which would reduce carbon stocks and lead to net emissions. However, 
biomass energy projections associated with long-run phenomenon 
like climate change suggest that the demand for wood-based biomass 
energy will grow over time.
Second, rising prices incentivize foresters to increase regeneration 
and management expenditures. These include replanting, fertilizing, 
managing for competition, and other practices aimed at increasing 
the value of and size of the growing stock. Expansion of biomass 
energy production would increase management over a wide swath 
of forests around the world, but most intensification would occur in 
places that are already intensively managed. For context, the stock 
of forests has increased steadily in the southern United States and 
has stabilized in the Pacific Northwest since 1950, despite old growth 
harvesting that continued up to the 1990s (40).
These findings advance the policy discussion by capturing several 
dynamics of how landowners respond to incentives, namely, that 
economic incentives promote more forest management. This out-
come is different than that of Schlesinger et al. (26) and others, who 
do acknowledge regrowth of forests but argue that emissions in the 
near term are particularly harmful because they cause damages during 
the entire time it takes for forests to regrow. This stance ignores the 
benefits of the past accumulation of carbon embodied in current forest 
stocks, which is an important component of the global carbon budget. 
The argument can also be extended to the future: Is it fair to hold 
landowners accountable for today’s emissions without considering 
the benefits of their future regrowth, especially given that the future 
carbon storage is more valuable than even today’s emission?
In addition to increasing the stock of forests, higher prices make 
forests more resilient to land use change. The real price of forest 
products has increased since the 1940s, while the real price of crops 
has fallen. As a result, the area of land in forests in the many parts of 
the United States and Europe has increased over the same time frame 
due to afforestation and the abandonment of low-productivity agri-
cultural land (41, 42). Rising prices, however, can encourage land-
owners with unmanaged, or natural forests, to liquidate their stock 
sooner than otherwise. If a policy that accounts for forest sequestration, 
such as the carbon rental policy, is not implemented, bioenergy demand 
could harm natural forests and the ecosystem and the biodiversity 
services that they provide. Further, as long as policies are implemented 
efficiently, large areas of natural forests would remain intact.
This study provides an improved understanding of the benefits 
and risks of increasing global bioenergy demand on forest area and 
forest carbon mitigation potential under alternative policy scenarios. 
However, there are at least two other factors that could be integrated 
Fig. 6. Estimated impacts for alternative land constraint scenarios under all RCPs. (A) Total forest area; (B) natural forestland and (C) forest carbon sequestration 
versus woody biomass production relative to the baseline (no bioenergy demand) for alternative land constrained scenarios and policy scenarios under all the RCPs. 
Diamond, 1.6 billion ha additional forestland limit; plus, 0.9 billion ha additional forestland limit; gray, carbon penalty; pink, forest carbon rental. Trend lines: dashed, 
1.6 billion ha; solid, 0.9 billion ha additional forestland limit.
Downloaded from http://advances.sciencemag.org/ on June 25, 2020
Favero et al., Sci. Adv. 2020; 6 : eaay6792     25 March 2020
SCIE N C E A D V A NCES | RESEA R CH  A RT ICL E
10 of 13
in future research to provide a more complete analysis of these issues 
in a dynamic framework: first, estimating the effects of climate change 
on forest growth, merchantable yields, dieback, and biome shifts on 
regional biomass supply; and second, analyzing how emerging tech-
nological and/or social transformation processes may affect the pro-
jected demand for woody biomass, especially over a long time horizon. 
Taking this more complex and integrated approach might not change 
our overall findings but rather provide more insight into additional 
risks that could be considered when designing efficient bioenergy 
and forest carbon sequestration policies.
MATERIALS AND METHODS
The forestry model used in this analysis is the GTM, which was ini-
tially developed to study dynamic forest markets and policies (4, 30). 
GTM combines the spatially detailed data on forests with an eco-
nomic model that weighs optimal forest management alternatives. 
This version of the model does not include climate change impacts, 
but the land classes in the model can be linked to vegetation types 
represented in ecosystem models such as BIOME/LPX-Bern (43, 44) 
or MC2 (45, 46). The baseline scenario used in this study is consistent 
with current climatic conditions. Moreover, GTM incorporates 
overall constraints on land areas derived from the ecological models, 
such that only land that is capable of naturally supporting forests 
can be converted to forestland (44). For this specific study, we 
included more restricted limitations on regional land that can be 
converted to forest following the estimates presented in Bastin et al. 
(36) of 1.6 billion ha and 0.9 billion ha.
GTM was recently used in a validation exercise to provide a his-
torical assessment of global and regional timber harvesting, timber 
management, and carbon stocks from 1900 to 2010 in Mendelsohn 
and Sohngen (47). Thus, our first simulation period (a decade) 
overlaps with the historical decade. Furthermore, Sohngen et al. (48) 
conducted a Monte Carlo analysis with the model to assess how un-
certainty in the land supply elasticity and forest biomass (yield) 
parameters would affect timber supply and carbon outcomes. The 
historical validation illustrates that the model can reproduce forestry 
management, land areas, timber prices, and timber stocks. The Monte 
Carlo illustrates that the model is most sensitive to the yield function 
parameters in terms of the carbon outcomes and timber supply out-
comes. Land supply elasticity is uncertain, but given that the elasticity 
parameter is likely not to vary systematically, uncertainty in the land 
supply elasticity does not have strong effects on carbon or timber supply.
GTM contains 200 forest types i in 16 regions. Figure S1 shows 
the regional disaggregation. Forest resources are differentiated by 
ecological productivity and by management and cost characteristics. 
To account for differences in ecological productivity, different land 
classes in different regions have different yield functions for timber, 
derived from the underlying inventory data. Moreover, forests are 
broken into different types of management classes. The first type is 
moderately valued forests; these are forests managed in rotations and 
located primarily in temperate regions. The second type is natural 
inaccessible forests, located in regions that are costly to access. To 
be conservative, inaccessible forests are assumed to be in equilibrium, 
such that they are neither accumulating nor releasing carbon. Inac-
cessible forests are unmanaged and located in places that are costly 
to access for timber market reasons. Over time, some of them in our 
model become accessible due to economic reasons, e.g., timber prices 
rise, making additional hectares economically efficient to harvest. If 
they become accessible, they are harvested, and when regrown, they 
are subject to applicable forest growth functions. The third type is 
low-value forests located in temperate and boreal areas that are lightly 
managed, if they are managed at all. The fourth category includes 
low-value timberland in inaccessible and semi-accessible regions of 
the tropical zones. The fifth type includes the high-valued timber 
plantation that is managed intensively; these forests can principally 
be found in subtropical regions of the United States, South America, 
southern Africa, the Iberian Peninsula, Indonesia, and Oceania.
GTM is an economic model of forests that maximizes the net 
present value of consumers’ and producers’ surplus in the forestry 
sector. By maximizing the net present value, the model optimizes the 
age of harvesting timber a and the intensity of regenerating and 
managing forests   m t  i   . It is an optimal control problem, given the 
aggregate demand function, starting stock, costs, and growth func-
tions of forest stocks.
GTM relies on forward-looking behavior and solves all time pe-
riods at the same time; this means that when land owners make de-
cisions today about forest management, they do so by considering 
the implications of their actions today on forests in the future with 
complete information. The result is a forecast of what a competitive 
market would also do with forestland.
Mathematically, this optimization problem is written as
  max ∑ 0  
∞     ρ   t  
{
    
  ∫0  
 Q t  tot     {  D( Q t  ind ,  Z  t,RCP   ) + D( Q t,RCP  
wbio   ) − C( Q t  tot  )  }    dQ t  tot − 
  
 
 
 
 ∑ i      C G  
i  ( m t  i  ,  G t  i   ) −  ∑ i      C N  
i  ( m t  i  ,  N t  i   ) −  ∑ i      R t  i  ( ∑ a      X a,t  
i   ) +  CC  t,RCP,policy  
  
}
     (1)
In Eq. 1, t is a discount factor,  D( Q t  ind ,  Z  t,RCP ) is a global demand 
function for industrial wood products  Q t  ind and average global con-
sumption per capita Zt,RCP from the International Institute of 
Applied Systems Analysis (IIASA) SSP database (33). In particular, 
we use the SSP2 IAM marker scenario from MESSAGE GLOBIOM 
under each of the five IPCC RCPs [according to the IIASA SSP data-
base (33), the global consumption per capita under the SSP2 IAM 
marker scenario does not change across RCPs].
Industrial timber demand follows the general functional form   
Q t  ind  =  A  t    ( Z  t,RCP  )      P t    , where At is a constant,  is the income elas-
ticity, Pt is the timber price, and  is the price elasticity. The global 
demand function is for industrial round wood, which is itself an input 
into products like lumber, paper, plywood, and other manufactured 
wood products.
Wood demand for bioenergy production  Q t,RCP  
wbio  is estimated by 
adjusting the total bioenergy consumption in the IIASA SSP data-
base   Q t,RCP  
bio   with the proportion of global biomass energy produced 
from wood by following similar assumption as in Lauri et al. (34). 
Figure S2 (A and B) shows total bioenergy consumption and total 
woody biomass supply under each RCP for the SSP2.
We assume there is an international market for timber that leads to a 
global market clearing price. As the price of wood for bioenergy rises to 
compete with industrial timber, both timber and bioenergy will be traded 
internationally (49). Competition for supply will equilibrate their prices.
Equation 2 shows that the total quantity of wood depends on the 
area of land harvested in the timber types in i for each age a and 
time t ( H a,t  
i  ) and the yield function  ( V a,t  
i  )  , which is itself a function 
of ecological forest productivity   t  i  and management intensity  m a,t  
i   .
 
   Q t  tot  =  ∑ i     (    ∑ a      H a,t  
i    V a,t  
i  ( θ t  i  ,  m a,t  
i   )  )     
(2)
Downloaded from http://advances.sciencemag.org/ on June 25, 2020
Favero et al., Sci. Adv. 2020; 6 : eaay6792     25 March 2020
SCIE N C E A D V A NCES | RESEA R CH  A RT ICL E
11 of 13
The functional form for the yield function is
 
   V a,t  
i  ( m a,t  
i   ) = h ∗  [  exp (    δ   i  −    π   i  
─ 
a   )   ]     
(3)
Per equation  h =  φ   i   (1 +  m a,t  
i  )   
    i   , h is the stocking density, which 
can be adjusted depending on the intensity of management,   m a=1,t  
i 
  . 
We restrict stocking elasticity, , to be positive and less than 1. The 
i affects the elasticity of management inputs in forestry to account 
for technology change. Initial stocking is denoted by φi. Increase 
in   m a=1,t  
i 
   will increase h, e.g., dh/dZ > 0, but the increase diminishes 
as   m a=1,t  
i 
  rises, e.g., d2h/dZ2 < 0. The model chooses management 
intensity by optimally choosing   m a=1,t  
i 
  . Increases in management 
intensity will increase yield and shift the entire yield function up-
ward. Forests are assumed to grow according to   V a,t  
i  ( Z a=1,t  
i 
 ) , where  
and  are species-dependent growth parameters (fig. S3 shows a 
represent ative yield function assuming h = 1.32,  = 5.2, and  = 30). 
 C( Q t  tot )  is the cost function for harvesting and transporting logs to 
the center (mills or power plants) from each of timber type.
The stock of land in each forest type adjusts over time according to
 
  X a,t  
i   =  X a−1,t−1  
i 
 −  H a−1,t−1  
i 
 +  G a=0,t−1  
i 
 +  N a=0,t−1  
i 
   
(4)
The initial stocks of land   X t  i    are given, and all choice variables are 
constrained to be greater than or equal to zero, and the area of timber 
harvested   H a,t  
i  does not exceed the total timber area.  G t  i    is the area of 
timber regenerated land planted, and   N t  i   is the new forest planted. 
  C G  
i  (·) is the cost function for planting land in temperate and previ-
ously inaccessible forests, while   C N  
i  (·)  is the cost function for planting 
forests in subtropical plantation regions.
GTM takes into account the competition of forestland with crops 
and livestock using a rental supply function for land (2). In Eq. 1,   R t  i  (·) 
is the rental cost function for the opportunity costs of holding tim-
berland   X a,t   
i   . For example, if timber prices rise relative to agricultural 
land prices, the model predicts that timber owners will rent suitable 
farmland for at least a rotation. Similarly, if timber prices fall rela-
tively to agricultural land prices, suitable forest land will be converted 
back to farmland upon harvest. In addition, the model accounts for 
the aggregate global effects of moving land between forests and agri-
culture by shifting all of the land supply functions for individual 
forest types as a function of the aggregate global area of forestland. 
As more land globally moves from agriculture to forests, all rental 
functions shift inward, making it more costly to convert any land 
from agriculture to forestry. This captures the effect that having less 
land in agriculture would have on land prices. We have assumed that 
the elasticity of land supply is 0.25, such that a 0.25% reduction in 
the global area of agricultural land would cause all land rents to 
rise by 1%. Note also that the rental supply function is restricted to 
agricultural land that is naturally suitable for forests. It presumes 
that the least productive crop and pasture land will be converted 
first and that rental rates increase as more land is converted and 
sendogenous.
The model is also developed to account for the global forest carbon 
stocks and flows following a method first presented by Sohngen and 
Sedjo (50) and updated by Daigneault et al. (18). Carbon is tracked in 
four pools: aboveground carbon, soil carbon, forest product carbon, 
and slash.
Aboveground carbon   C a,t  
i    accounts for the carbon in all compo-
nents of the living tree, including roots, as well as carbon in the forest 
understory and the forest floor, but does not include dead organic 
matter in slash, which is contained in a separate pool. For this analy-
sis, we assume that carbon is proportional to total biomass, such 
that carbon in any forest of any age class is given as
 
  C a,t  
i   =     i   V a,t  
i  ( m t0  
i  )   
(5)
where i is a species-dependent coefficient that converts biomass to 
carbon. Given this, the total forest carbon pool  TFCP t  i   for each timber 
type is calculated as
 
  TFCP t  i   =  ∑ a      C a,t  
i    X a,t  
i    
(6)
Carbon in harvested forest products   HC t  i    is estimated by track-
ing forest products over time as follows
 
  HC t  i  = (1 −    t )     i   ∑ a     (    i   V a,t  
i    H a,t  
i  )  
(7)
where i is the proportion of harvested timber volume that is car-
bon stored permanently, and it is estimated to be 0.30 (51), i is a 
parameter that converts forest products into carbon (regional and 
forest type based), while t is the portion of wood used in the energy 
sector, and it is endogenously selected by the model; that is,   HC t  i   
accounts only for carbon stored in wood products, not woody bio-
mass used for energy production. Carbon stored in woody biomass 
used for bioenergy production is calculated as follows
 
  BIOC t  i   =    t   ∑ a         i  ( V a,t  
i    H a,t  
i  )  
(8)
Soil carbon    SOLC t  i    is measured as the stock of carbon in forest 
soils of type i in time t. The value of    ¯ 
K   , the steady-state level of car-
bon in forest soils, is unique to each region and timber type. The 
parameter i is the growth rate for soil carbon. In this analysis, we 
capture the marginal change in carbon value associated with manage-
ment or land use changes. When land use change occurs, we track 
net carbon gains or losses over time as follows
 
   SOLC t+1  
i   =  SOLC t  i   +  SOLC t  i  (    i  )  [     (  ¯ 
K   −  SOLC t  i  ) 
─ 
 SOLC t  i  
 
  ]     
(9)
Last, we measure slash carbon  AS t  i   as the carbon leftover on site 
after a timber harvest
 
  AS t  i   =  ∑ a    (  a  
i    V a,t  
i    H a,t  
i  −     i   V a,t  
i    H a,t  
i  )   
(10)
Over time, the stock of slash   SP t  i    builds up through annual addi-
tions and decomposes as follows
 
  SP t+1  
i   =  AS t  i  + (1 −  ϑ   i   SP t  i  )  
(11)
Decomposition rates ϑi differ, depending on whether the forest 
lies in the tropics, temperate, or boreal zone.
Last, in Eq. 1, the term CCt, RCP, policy represents the carbon payments/
penalties for forest owners according to the policy implemented. For 
this study, GTM has been enhanced to capture public policy efforts 
that either penalize bioenergy demand or value climate mitigation 
benefits of forests sequestration. GTM assumes that the incentives 
in the timber product, woody biomass, and carbon sequestration sys-
tem can be implemented efficiently. That is, GTM portrays an ideal 
Downloaded from http://advances.sciencemag.org/ on June 25, 2020
Favero et al., Sci. Adv. 2020; 6 : eaay6792     25 March 2020
SCIE N C E A D V A NCES | RESEA R CH  A RT ICL E
12 of 13
world in which the carbon price and/or subsidy is implemented 
simultaneously everywhere, and there are no trade barriers or other 
limitations in the use of woody biomass for energy or governance 
issues. This is an ideal framework: Carbon obviously has not been 
traded globally, and there are widespread reservations about trading 
it in the atmosphere as well as in forests. There are measurement, 
monitoring, and verification problems, as well as concerns about 
leakage and permanence.
Starting with the scenarios simulated in Favero et al. (22), this study 
explores four possible policy scenarios:
1) Reference scenario: No bioenergy demand and carbon price 
are implemented;
2) Bioenergy scenario: Exogenous bioenergy demands from SSP2 
across RCPs  Q t,RCP  
wbio    are included;
3) Forest carbon rental scenario: Exogenous bioenergy demands 
from SSP2 across RCPs are included, and forest owners are com-
pensated by annual rent for providing annual carbon sequestration 
according to the carbon prices from the IIASA SSP database;
4) Carbon penalty scenario: Bioenergy demands from SSP2 across 
RCPs are included, and carbon emissions upon harvests for energy 
are taxed.
The policy scenarios are described in Eq. 1 with the term CCt,RCP,policy. 
Moreover, in the reference and bioenergy scenarios, the term CCt,RCP,policy 
is assumed to be equal to zero since no policy efforts are implemented 
to value or penalize bioenergy demand.
On the other hand, in the forest carbon rental scenario, forest 
owners receive carbon payments for the carbon permanently stored 
in wood products and are compensated by annual rent for providing 
annual carbon sequestration according to the carbon prices  P t,RCP  
c 
  from 
the IIASA SSP database (fig. S2C) as follows
  
  CC  t,RCP,carbon_rental   =  P t,RCP  
c 
  [    ∑ i      HC t  i   + ( SOLC t+1  
i   −  SOLC t  i   )  ]  + 
  
 
 
 R t,RCP  
c 
   ∑ i      TFCP t  i  
 
   (12)
The first part of Eq. 11 is the carbon transferred to long-lived 
wood products (  HC t  i   ) from each forest i valued at the carbon price 
  P t,RCP  
c 
  . The change in soil carbon  ( SOLC t  i  ) when land switches be-
tween forests and agriculture is also valued at the carbon price (13, 15). 
The second term is the annual rent,   R t,RCP  
c 
  , whereby the total carbon 
stocks in forests   TFCP t  i    are rented during the time period that the 
carbon is stored following Sohngen and Mendelsohn (4). The rental 
value for carbon is
 
  R t,RCP  
c 
  =  P t,RCP  
c 
 −   P t+1,RCP  
c 
 ⁄  (1 + r)   t    
(13)
where r is the interest rate. This equation accounts for potential 
price increases in carbon that occur as carbon accumulates in the 
atmosphere.
Last, in the carbon penalty scenario, forest owners pay a penalty 
for the carbon released when timber is harvested to supply bioenergy 
demand.
 
  CC  t,RCP,penalty   = −  P t,RCP  
c 
   ∑ i      BIOC t  i    
(14)
Table S1 provides the list of parameter values used to parameter-
ize equations for the simulations presented in this study. More de-
tails on the version of GTM used in this analysis are available in (18) 
and (22).
SUPPLEMENTARY MATERIALS
Supplementary material for this article is available at http://advances.sciencemag.org/cgi/
content/full/6/13/eaay6792/DC1
Supplementary Materials and Methods
Model estimates
Fig. S1. GTM—Regional Aggregation.
Fig. S2. Global assumptions for alternative RCP scenarios. 
Fig. S3. Yield for representative species in the GTM.
Fig. S4. Estimated changes in global forest carbon stock pools in GtCO2 relative to the baseline 
scenario under each RCP.
Fig. S5. Changes in global forest area by major ecosystem versus woody biomass supply under 
the bioenergy demand scenario relative to the baseline scenario.
Fig. S6. IAMs’ estimates of forest areas and crop areas (2010–2100) under the RCP 1.9 and RCP 
2.6 from the IIASA SSP database.
Fig. S7. Estimated changes in global forest carbon stock pools in GtCO2 relative to the baseline 
scenario under each RCP and the two policy approaches.
Fig. S8. Key parameter sensitivity impacts relative to 2010 for RCP 2.6 Forest Carbon Rental 
scenario.
Table S1. GTM parameter values.
Table S2. Baseline key GTM estimates, 2010–2100.
Table S3. Baseline global forest area (Mha) by major ecosystem, 2010–2100.
Table S4. Baseline global total forest carbon stocks by major ecosystem, 2010–2100.
REFERENCES AND NOTES
 1. R. A. Sedjo, Forests: A tool to moderate global warming? Environ. Sci. Pol. Sustain. Devel. 
31, 14–20 (1989).
 2. R. N. Stavins, The costs of carbon sequestration: A revealed-preference approach.  
Am. Econ. Rev. 89, 994–1009 (1999).
 3. D. M. Adams, R. J. Alig, B. A. McCarl, J. M. Callaway, S. M. Winnett, Minimum cost strategies 
for sequestering carbon in forests. Land Econ. 75, 360–374 (1999).
 4. B. Sohngen, R. Mendelsohn, An optimal control model of forest carbon sequestration. 
Am. J. Agric. Econ. 85, 448–457 (2003).
 5. G. Kindermann, M. Obersteiner, B. Sohngen, J. Sathaye, K. Andrasko, E. Rametsteiner, 
B. Schlamadinger, S. Wunder, R. Beach, Global cost estimates of reducing carbon emissions 
through avoided deforestation. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 105, 10302–10307 (2008).
 6. T. Kuramochi, H. Fekete, L. Luna, M. J. de Villafranca Casas, L. Nascimento, F. Hans, 
N. Höhne, H. van Soest, M. den Elzen, K. Esmeijer, M. Roelfsema, Greenhouse gas 
mitigation scenarios for major emitting countries–Analysis of current climate policies and 
mitigation commitments: 2018 update (New Climate Institute December 2018 Report 
2018), p. 133.
 7. N. Forsell, O. Turkovska, M. Gusti, M. Obersteiner, M. den Elzen, P. Havlik, Assessing 
the INDCs' land use, land use change, and forest emission projections. Carbon Balance Manag. 
11, 26 (2016).
 8. United States Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA), EPA’s Treatment of Biogenic 
Carbon Dioxide (CO2) Emissions from Stationary Sources that Use Forest Biomass for 
Energy Production (2018); https://epa.gov/sites/production/files/2018-04/documents/
biomass_policy_statement_2018_04_23.pdf.
 9. European Union (EU), Directive 2009/28/EC of the European Parliament and of the 
Council of 23 April 2009 on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources 
and amending and subsequently repealing Directives 2001/77/EC and 2003/30/EC, 5 
(Official Journal of the European Union, 2009); https://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/
LexUriServ.do?uri=OJ:L:2009:140:0016:0062:en:PDF.
 10. J. Rogelj, D. Shindell, K. Jiang, S. Fifita, P. Forster, V. Ginzburg, C. Handa, H. Kheshgi,  
S. Kobayashi, E. Kriegler, L. Mundaca, R. Séférian, M. V. Vilariño, Chapter 2: Mitigation 
pathways compatible with 1.5°C in the context of sustainable development, in 
Global Warming of 1.5 °C an IPCC Special Report on the Impacts of Global Warming of 1.5 °C 
above Pre-Industrial Levels and Related Global Greenhouse Gas Emission Pathways, in the 
context of strengthening the global response to the threat of climate change, V. Masson-Delmotte, 
P. Zhai, H.-O. Pörtner, D. Roberts, J. Skea, P. R. Shukla, A. Pirani, W. Moufouma-Okia, C. Péan, 
R. Pidcock, S. Connors, J. B. R. Matthews, Y. Chen, X. Zhou, M. I. Gomis, E. Lonnoy, T. Maycock, 
M. Tignor, T. Waterfield, Eds. (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, 2018).
 11. T. D. Searchinger, S. P. Hamburg, J. Melillo, W. Chameides, P. Havlik, D. M. Kammen, 
G. E. Likens, R. N. Lubowski, M. Obersteiner, M. Oppenheimer, G. P. Robertson, 
W. H. Schlesinger, G. D. Tilman, Fixing a critical climate accounting error. Science 326, 
527–528 (2009).
 12. T. Walker, P. Cardellichio, A. Colnes, J. Gunn, B. Kittler, B. Perschel, F. Guild, C. Recchia, 
D. Saah, Biomass Sustainability and Carbon Policy Study (Manomet Centre for 
Conservation Sciences, Brunswick, ME, USA, 2010), 182 p.
 13. T. D. Searchinger, T. Beringer, B. Holtsmark, D. M. Kammen, E. F. Lambin, W. Lucht, 
P. Raven, J.-P. van Ypersele, Europe's renewable energy directive poised to harm global 
forests. Nat. Commun. 9, 3741 (2018).
Downloaded from http://advances.sciencemag.org/ on June 25, 2020
Favero et al., Sci. Adv. 2020; 6 : eaay6792     25 March 2020
SCIE N C E A D V A NCES | RESEA R CH  A RT ICL E
13 of 13
 14. J. M. DeCicco, W. H. Schlesinger, Opinion: Reconsidering bioenergy given the urgency 
of climate protection. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 115, 9642–9645 (2018).
 15. J. McKechnie, S. Colombo, J. Chen, W. Mabee, H. L. MacLean, Forest bioenergy or forest 
carbon? Assessing trade-offs in greenhouse gas mitigation with wood-based fuels. 
Environ. Sci. Technol. 45, 789–795 (2010).
 16. T. Buchholz, M. D. Hurteau, J. Gunn, D. Saah, A global meta-analysis of forest bioenergy 
greenhouse gas emission accounting studies. GCB Bioenergy 8, 281–289 (2016).
 17. R. Birdsey, P. Duffy, C. Smyth, W. A. Kurz, A. J. Dugan, R. Houghton, Climate, economic, 
and environmental impacts of producing wood for bioenergy. Environ. Res. Lett. 13, 
050201 (2018).
 18. A. Daigneault, B. Sohngen, R. Sedjo, Economic approach to assess the forest carbon 
implications of biomass energy. Environ. Sci. Technol. 46, 5664–5671 (2012).
 19. K. L. Abt, R. C. Abt, C. Galik, Effect of bioenergy demands and supply response on markets, 
carbon, and land use. Forest Sci. 58, 523–539 (2012).
 20. G. S. Latta, J. S. Baker, R. H. Beach, S. K. Rose, B. A. McCarl, A multi-sector intertemporal 
optimization approach to assess the GHG implications of U.S. forest and agricultural 
biomass electricity expansion. J. Forest. Econ. 19, 361–383 (2013).
 21. A. Favero, R. Mendelsohn, Using markets for woody biomass energy to sequester carbon 
in forests. J. Assoc. Environ. Resour. Econ. 1, 75–95 (2014).
 22. A. Favero, R. Mendelsohn, B. Sohngen, Using forests for climate mitigation: Sequester 
carbon or produce woody biomass? Clim. Change 144, 195–206 (2017).
 23. X. Tian, B. Sohngen, J. Baker, S. Ohrel, A. A. Fawcett, Will U.S. forests continue 
to be a carbon sink? Land Econ. 94, 97–113 (2018).
 24. W. D. Nordhaus, Revisiting the social cost of carbon. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 114, 
1518–1523 (2017).
 25. G. C. van Kooten, C. S. Binkley, G. Delcourt, Effect of carbon taxes and subsidies 
on optimal forest rotation age and supply of carbon services. Am. J. Agric. Econ. 77, 
365–374 (1995).
 26. W. H. Schlesinger, B. Law, J. Sterman, W. R. Moomaw, “Pruitt Is Wrong on Burning Forests 
for Energy,” New York Times. 3 May 2018.
 27. D. A. Scott, D. S. Page-Dumroese, Wood bioenergy and soil productivity research. 
Bioenergy Res. 9, 507–517 (2016).
 28. B. Holtsmark, Harvesting in boreal forests and the biofuel carbon debt. Clim. Change 112, 
415–428 (2012).
 29. E.-D. Schulze, C. Körner, B. E. Law, H. Haberl, S. Luyssaert, Large-scale bioenergy 
from additional harvest of forest biomass is neither sustainable nor greenhouse gas 
neutral. Glob. Change Biol. Bioenergy 4, 611–616 (2012).
 30. B. Sohngen, R. Mendelsohn, R. Sedjo, Forest management, conservation, and global 
timber markets. Am. J. Agric. Econ. 81, 1–13 (1999).
 31. K. Riahi, D. P. van Vuuren, E. Kriegler, J. Edmonds, B. C. O’Neill, S. Fujimori, N. Bauer, 
K. Calvin, R. Dellink, O. Fricko, W. Lutz, A. Popp, J. C. Cuaresma, K. C. Samir, M. Leimbach, 
L. Jiang, T. Kram, S. Rao, J. Emmerling, K. Ebi, T. Hasegawa, P. Havlik, F. Humpenöder, 
L. A. Da Silva, S. Smith, E. Stehfest, V. Bosetti, J. Eom, D. Gernaat, T. Masui, J. Rogelj, 
J. Strefler, L. Drouet, V. Krey, G. Luderer, M. Harmsen, K. Takahashi, L. Baumstark, 
J. C. Doelman, M. Kainuma, Z. Klimont, G. Marangoni, H. Lotze-Campen, M. Obersteiner, 
A. Tabeau, M. Tavoni, The shared socioeconomic pathways and their energy, land use, 
and greenhouse gas emissions implications: An overview. Glob. Environ. Chang. 42, 
153–168 (2017).
 32. O. Fricko, P. Havlik, J. Rogelj, Z. Klimont, M. Gusti, N. P. Johnson, P. Kolp, M. Strubegger, 
H. Valin, M. Amann, T. Ermolieva, N. Forsell, M. Herrero, C. Heyes, G. Kindermann, V. Krey, 
D. L. McCollum, M. Obersteiner, S. Pachauri, S. Rao, E. Schmid, W. Schoepp, K. Riahi, The 
marker quantification of the shared socioeconomic pathway 2: A middle-of-the-road 
scenario for the 21st century. Glob. Environ. Chang. 42, 251–267 (2017).
 33. IIASA, Shared Socioeconomic Pathway Database (2018); http://iiasa.ac.at/web/home/
research/researchPrograms/Energy/SSP_Scenario_Database.html.
 34. P. Lauri, N. Forsell, A. Korosuo, P. Havlík, M. Obersteiner, A. Nordin, Impact of the 2 °C 
target on global woody biomass use. Forest Policy Econ. 83, 121–130 (2017).
 35. H. K. Gibbs, S. Brown, J. O. Niles, J. A. Foley, Monitoring and estimating tropical forest 
carbon stocks: Making REDD a reality. Environ. Res. Lett. 2, 045023 (2007).
 36. J.-F. Bastin, Y. Finegold, C. Garcia, D. Mollicone, M. Rezende, D. Routh, C. M. Zohner, 
T. W. Crowther, The global tree restoration potential. Science 365, 76–79 (2019).
 37. A. Popp, K. Calvin, S. Fujimori, P. Havlik, F. Humpenöder, E. Stehfest, B. L. Bodirsky, 
J. P. Dietrich, J. C. Doelmann, M. Gusti, T. Hasegawa, P. Kyle, M. Obersteiner, A. Tabeau, 
K. Takahashi, H. Valin, S. Waldhoff, I. Weindl, M. Wise, E. Kriegler, H. Lotze-Campen, 
O. Fricko, K. Riahi, D. P. van Vuuren, Land-use futures in the shared socio-economic 
pathways. Glob. Environ. Chang. 42, 331–345 (2017).
 38. T. W. Hertel, T. A. P. West, J. Börner, N. B. Villoria, A review of global-local-global linkages 
in economic land-use/cover change models. Environ. Res. Lett. 14, 053003 (2019).
 39. International Energy Agency (IEA), Global Energy CO2 Status Report (ed. 2, 2019). 
Available at https://iea.org/geco/.
 40. B. Sohngen, X. Tian, Global climate change impacts on forests and markets. Forest Policy Econ. 72, 
18–26 (2016).
 41. USDA Economic Research Service, Major Land Uses (2019); https://ers.usda.gov/
data-products/major-land-uses/major-land-uses/#Forest-use%20land.
 42. S. Gold, A. Korotkov, V. Sasse, The development of European forest resources, 1950 
to 2000. Forest Policy Econ. 8, 183–192 (2006).
 43. A. Haxeltine, I. C. Prentice, BIOME3: An equilibrium terrestrial biosphere model based 
on ecophysiological constraints, resource availability, and competition among plant 
functional types. Global Biogeochem. Cycles 10, 693–709 (1996).
 44. A. Favero, R. Mendelsohn, B. Sohngen, Can the global forest sector survive 11°C 
warming? Agric. R. Econ. Rev. 47, 388–413 (2018).
 45. J. B. Kim, E. Monier, B. Sohngen, G. S. Pitts, R. Drapek, J. McFarland, S. Ohrel, J. Cole, 
Assessing climate change impacts, benefits of mitigation, and uncertainties on major 
global forest regions under multiple socioeconomic and emissions scenarios.  
Environ. Res. Lett. 12, 045001 (2017).
 46. X. Tian, B. Sohngen, J. B. Kim, S. Ohrel, J. Cole, Global climate change impacts on forests 
and markets. Environ. Res. Lett. 11, 035011 (2016).
 47. R. Mendelsohn, B. Sohngen, Has historic forest and land management actually caused 
extensive carbon emissions? Journal of Forest Economics, Forthcoming (2019).
 48. B. Sohngen, M. E. Salem, J. S. Baker, M. J. Shell, S. J. Kim, The influence of parametric 
uncertainty on projections of forest land use, carbon, and markets. J. Forest Econ. 34, 
129–158 (2019).
 49. A. Favero, E. Massetti, Trade of woody biomass for electricity generation under climate 
mitigation policy. Resour. Energ. Econ. 36, 166–190 (2014).
 50. B. Sohngen, R. Sedjo, Potential carbon flux from timber harvests and management 
in the context of a global timber market. Clim. Change 44, 151–172 (2000).
 51. J. K. Winjum, S. Brown, B. Schlamadinger, Forest harvests and wood products: Sources 
and sinks of atmospheric carbon dioxide. Forest Sci. 44, 272–284 (1998).
Acknowledgments 
Funding: This project was supported by the USDA National Institute of Food and Agriculture 
McIntire-Stennis project number ME0-41825 through the Maine Agricultural & Forest 
Experiment Station; Maine Agricultural and Forest Experiment Station Publication number 
3701. Author contributions: A.F., A.D., and B.S. contributed the central idea, and A.F. and A.D. 
refined the idea. A.F., A.D., and B.S. analyzed the data. A.F., A.D., and B.S. contributed equally to 
the drafting of the manuscript. Competing interests: The authors declare that they have no 
competing interests. Data and materials availability: All data needed to evaluate the 
conclusions in the paper are present in the paper and/or the Supplementary Materials. 
Additional data related to this paper may be requested from the authors.
Submitted 9 July 2019
Accepted 2 January 2020
Published 25 March 2020
10.1126/sciadv.aay6792
Citation: A. Favero, A. Daigneault, B. Sohngen, Forests: Carbon sequestration, biomass energy, 
or both? Sci. Adv. 6, eaay6792 (2020).
Downloaded from http://advances.sciencemag.org/ on June 25, 2020
Forests: Carbon sequestration, biomass energy, or both?
Alice Favero, Adam Daigneault and Brent Sohngen
DOI: 10.1126/sciadv.aay6792
6 (13), eaay6792.
Sci Adv 
ARTICLE TOOLS
http://advances.sciencemag.org/content/6/13/eaay6792
MATERIALS
SUPPLEMENTARY 
http://advances.sciencemag.org/content/suppl/2020/03/23/6.13.eaay6792.DC1
REFERENCES
http://advances.sciencemag.org/content/6/13/eaay6792#BIBL
This article cites 41 articles, 5 of which you can access for free
PERMISSIONS
http://www.sciencemag.org/help/reprints-and-permissions
Terms of Service
Use of this article is subject to the 
York Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20005. The title Science Advances is a registered trademark of AAAS.
(ISSN 2375-2548) is published by the American Association for the Advancement of Science, 1200 New
Science Advances 
License 4.0 (CC BY-NC).
Science. No claim to original U.S. Government Works. Distributed under a Creative Commons Attribution NonCommercial 
Copyright © 2020 The Authors, some rights reserved; exclusive licensee American Association for the Advancement of
Downloaded from http://advances.sciencemag.org/ on June 25, 2020
