 
 
 
 
 
The Ten Point Plan 
for a Green Industrial 
Revolution 
Building back better, supporting green jobs, and accelerating 
our path to net zero 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
November 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Ten Point Plan 
for a Green Industrial 
Revolution 
Building back better, supporting green jobs, and accelerating  
our path to net zero 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
November 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Ten Point Plan for a Green Industrial Revolution 1 
 
Contents 
Foreword from the Prime Minister 
3 
Foreword from the Secretary of State for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy 
4 
Introduction 
5 
The Ten Point Plan for a Green Industrial Revolution 
7 
Point 1: Advancing Offshore Wind 
8 
Point 2: Driving the Growth of Low Carbon Hydrogen 
10 
Point 3: Delivering New and Advanced Nuclear Power 
12 
Point 4: Accelerating the Shift to Zero Emission Vehicles 
14 
Point 5: Green Public Transport, Cycling and Walking 
16 
Point 6: Jet Zero and Green Ships 
18 
Point 7: Greener Buildings 
20 
Point 8: Investing in Carbon Capture, Usage and Storage 
22 
Point 9: Protecting Our Natural Environment 
24 
Point 10: Green Finance and Innovation 
26 
Look Ahead: The Race to Zero 
30 
Notes on figures 
32 
 
 
 
 
2 The Ten Point Plan for a Green Industrial Revolution 
 
 
 
 
 
The Ten Point Plan for a Green Industrial Revolution 3 
 
Foreword from the 
Prime Minister 
This year has taken a very different path from any we 
expected, but I have not lost sight of our ambitious plans 
to unite and level up our country.  
Just as science will enable humanity to rout Coronavirus, so we will use the UK’s 
extraordinary powers of invention to repair the economic damage and build back better. 
Now is the time to plan for a green recovery – with high-skilled high-paid jobs that offer the 
extra satisfaction of helping to make our nation cleaner, greener and more beautiful. 
Imagine how our Green Industrial Revolution could transform life across our United 
Kingdom. You cook your breakfast using hydrogen power before getting in your electric 
car, having charged it overnight from batteries made in the Midlands. Around you the air is 
cleaner, and the trucks and trains, ships and planes are running on hydrogen or a 
synthetic fuel. British towns and regions — Teesside, Port Talbot, Merseyside and 
Mansfield — have become synonymous with green technology and the jobs they bring. 
This is where Britain’s ability to make hydrogen and capture carbon pioneered the 
decarbonisation of transport, industry and power. 
This Ten Point Plan to get there will mobilise £12 billion of government investment, and 
potentially three times as much from the private sector, to create and support up to 
250,000 green jobs. There will be electric vehicle technicians in the Midlands, construction 
and installation workers in the North East and Wales, specialists in advanced fuels in the 
North West, agroforestry practitioners in Scotland, and grid system installers everywhere. 
And we will help people train for these new green jobs through our Lifetime Skills 
Guarantee. 
We will turn the UK into the world’s number one centre for green technology and finance, 
laying the foundations for decades of economic growth by delivering net zero emissions in 
a way that creates jobs and allows us to carry on living our lives. And we will harness 
Mother Nature’s ability to absorb carbon by planting 30,000 hectares of trees a year by 
2025, and restore the abundance of nature by rewilding 30,000 football pitches worth of 
countryside.  
The UK was the first major economy to embrace a legal obligation to achieve net zero 
carbon emissions by 2050. I will establish Task Force Net Zero to take forward this 
national priority, and through next year’s COP26 Summit, we will urge countries and 
companies around the world to join us in delivering net zero globally.  
We long ago proved that green and growth can go hand-in-hand. So let us meet the most 
enduring threat to our planet with one of the most innovative and ambitious programmes of 
job-creation we have known  
The Rt Hon Boris Johnson MP 
Prime Minister 
4 The Ten Point Plan for a Green Industrial Revolution 
 
Foreword from the 
Secretary of State for 
Business, Energy & 
Industrial Strategy 
As the world looks to recover from the impact of coronavirus on our lives, 
livelihoods and economies, we have the chance to build back better: to invest 
in making the UK a global leader in green technologies.  
If we apply the same zeal and ingenuity to stopping climate change as we have to tackling 
coronavirus, we can do so while transforming our economy, delivering jobs and growth 
across the country.  
Our Ten Point Plan sets the firm foundations to do just that. The plan brings together 
ambitious policies and significant new public investment, while seeking to mobilise private 
investment. This has the potential to deliver up to an estimated £42 billon of private 
investment by 2030 across energy, buildings, transport, innovation and the natural 
environment. In doing so, we will position the UK to take advantage of export opportunities 
presented by low carbon technologies and services into new, global emerging markets – 
providing jobs and reinvigorating our industrial heartlands. 
The Ten Point Plan demonstrates the UK’s significant and continuing commitment to 
tackling greenhouse gas emissions. We have led the G7 countries in cutting emissions 
since 1990. As President-Designate for the United Nations Framework Convention on 
Climate Change Conference of the Parties 26 (COP26), I am committed to ensuring we 
also use our leadership role so that all countries, businesses, cities and investors adopt a 
greener, more resilient, sustainable path for the future. 
This will build on a Conservative track record of addressing the climate challenge. From 
helping to secure the Paris Agreement, to legislating for net zero, and setting out the 
greenest manifesto in the UK’s history, this plan delivers on our commitments to present a 
vision for the UK that is greener, more prosperous and at the forefront of global industry. 
We will continue to build on this plan. 
Over the next year we will bring forward ambitious proposals across the economy to cut 
emissions and secure long-term growth for the whole country, starting with the Energy 
White Paper before the end of the year. I look forward to working with businesses, 
organisations representing the interests of UK citizens, the Devolved Administrations and 
Governments across the world to make this a reality. 
 
The Rt Hon Alok Sharma MP 
Secretary of State for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy, President COP 26 
The Ten Point Plan for a Green Industrial Revolution 5 
 
Introduction 
Two centuries ago the UK led the world’s first Industrial Revolution. Powered 
by innovation and private investment, this transformation gave birth to many 
of our great cities and effectively created the modern world. Today we will 
mobilise the same forces to level up our country and enable our proud 
industrial heartlands to forge the future once again. By investing in clean 
technologies – wind, carbon capture, hydrogen and many others – Britain will 
lead the world into a new Green Industrial Revolution.  
As the world begins to recover from the devastating impact of the coronavirus on lives and 
livelihoods, a broader transformation is taking shape. We will create hundreds of 
thousands of new jobs by investing in pioneering British industries while simultaneously 
protecting future generations from climate change and the remorseless destruction of 
habitats. 
Britain is already leading the way. Over the last 30 years, we have shown that economic 
success and environmental responsibility go hand in hand. We expanded our GDP by 75 
per cent while cutting emissions by 43 per cent. Our low-carbon industries already support 
over 460,000 jobs,1 from electric vehicle manufacturing in the Midlands and the North East 
to our thriving offshore wind industry centred on the Humber and the Tees. In 2019, we 
became the first major economy to adopt a legally binding obligation to reach net zero 
greenhouse gas emissions by 2050.  
This year, our Ten Point Plan will lay the foundations for a Green Industrial Revolution. 
We will start by supporting 90,000 jobs across the UK within this Parliament, and up to 
250,000 by 2030. Engineers, fitters, construction workers and many others will be 
engaged in harnessing British science and technology to create and use clean energy and 
forge great new industries that export to new markets around the world. Our Lifetime Skills 
Guarantee will equip people with the training they need to take advantage of these 
opportunities.  
The government has announced over £5 billion to support a green recovery. This plan 
mobilises £12 billion – and potentially more than three times as much from the private 
sector – to place green jobs at the heart of our economic revival.  
As the world goes green, we will seek to put the UK at the forefront of global markets for 
clean technology. One measure of the opportunity is that 83 per cent of the $13.3 trillion of 
global investment in electricity systems by 2050 could be in zero-carbon technologies.2 
We will generate new clean power with offshore wind farms, nuclear plants and by 
investing up to half a billion pounds in new hydrogen technologies. We will use this energy 
to carry on living our lives, running our cars, buses, trucks and trains, ships and planes, 
and heating our homes while keeping bills low. And to the extent that we still emit carbon, 
 
1 
https://www.ons.gov.uk/economy/environmentalaccounts/methodologies/lowcarbonandrenewable 
energyeconomylcreesurveyqmi 
2 
https://about.bnef.com/new-energy-outlook/ 
6 The Ten Point Plan for a Green Industrial Revolution 
 
we will pioneer a new British industry dedicated to its capture and return to under the North 
Sea. Together these measures will reinvigorate our industrial heartlands, creating jobs and 
growth, and pioneering world-leading SuperPlaces that unite clean industry with transport 
and power. All of these ambitions will be propelled by doubling down on Britain’s world-
leading expertise in green finance and innovation. 
Finally, we will harness nature’s ability to absorb carbon by establishing new National 
Parks and Areas of Outstanding Natural Beauty, and making them even greater havens of 
biodiversity, with the aim of protecting 30% of England’s countryside by 2030. We will use 
the freedoms we regain by leaving the EU to support Britain’s farmers so that, alongside 
producing high-quality food, we ensure healthy soils which will also retain and – over time 
– capture carbon. We will restore our peatlands and woodlands, create the Nature 
Recovery Network and wilder landscapes, generating new jobs in nature and land 
management. And we will better adapt and protect our communities from the already 
visible effects of climate change by investing in flood defences and using nature-based 
solutions to increase flood resilience. 
The cumulative effect of this plan will be to reduce UK emissions by 180 million tonnes of 
carbon dioxide equivalent (Mt CO2 e) between 2023 and 2032, equal to taking all of 
today’s cars off the road for around two years. But this is only the start. Over the next year 
we will work with industry to devise further sectoral plans and meet our carbon budgets 
and target of net zero by 2050. To drive our progress towards this national priority, the 
Prime Minister will establish a new Task Force Net Zero, putting a systems approach at 
the heart of our thinking.  
But action by the UK alone will not be sufficient to avoid catastrophic climate change. Our 
Ten Point Plan strengthens our ability to bring other countries with us and positions Britain 
as a leader in the green technologies we all need to employ. Through our Presidency of 
the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) Conference of 
the Parties 26 (COP26) in Glasgow, the UK will urge ambitious action from countries, 
businesses, cities, and investors alike. Together we will deliver the promises of the 2015 
Paris Agreement and drive progress towards global net zero. And next month, alongside 
the UN and France, the UK will host a Climate Ambition Summit five years after COP21 in 
Paris to rally the world behind the goal of a greener, more resilient and sustainable future. 
The Ten Point Plan for a Green Industrial Revolution 7 
 
The Ten Point Plan for a 
Green Industrial Revolution 
 
Point 1 
Advancing Offshore Wind 
 
Point 2 
Driving the Growth of Low Carbon Hydrogen 
 
Point 3 
Delivering New and Advanced Nuclear Power 
 
Point 4 
Accelerating the Shift to Zero Emission Vehicles 
 
Point 5 
Green Public Transport, Cycling and Walking 
 
Point 6 
Jet Zero and Green Ships 
 
Point 7 
Greener Buildings 
 
Point 8 
Investing in Carbon Capture, Usage and Storage 
 
Point 9 
Protecting Our Natural Environment 
 
Point 10 
Green Finance and Innovation 
8 The Ten Point Plan for a Green Industrial Revolution 
 
Point 1: Advancing 
Offshore Wind 
Offshore wind is a critical source of renewable energy for 
our growing economy, with the UK already leading the 
world. By 2030 we plan to quadruple our offshore wind 
capacity so as to generate more power than all our homes use today, 
backing new innovations to make the most of this proven technology and 
investing to bring new jobs and growth to our ports and coastal regions. 
The UK already generates more electricity from offshore wind than any other country, 
harnessing the wind power our seas are well placed to produce. Government support to 
unleash the potential of this industry has seen the cost of offshore wind fall by two thirds in 
the last five years. To offer further commitment to the industry and help further reduce 
costs, next year, we will aim to deliver up to double the amount of renewables we procure 
through our next Contract for Difference auction. And by 2030, we aim to produce 40GW 
of offshore wind, including 1GW of innovative floating offshore wind in the windiest 
parts of our seas. The UK is home to the world’s first two floating offshore windfarms and 
by 2030 we intend to have scaled this twelvefold. Our target could encourage £20 billion of 
private investment into the UK and could double jobs in the sector over the next decade, 
ranging from construction workers to top-end engineers.  
With a single turn of their blades, the latest wind turbines generate enough electricity to 
power a house for more than 24 hours. We will put ourselves at the forefront of 
manufacturing as we see wind turbines grow in size. To support this enlarging industry, we 
will invest £160 million into modern ports and manufacturing infrastructure, providing 
high quality employment in coastal regions. We will also enable the delivery of 60% UK 
content in offshore wind projects, as set out by the industry, through more stringent 
requirements for supply chains in the Contract for Difference auctions. This will help attract 
inward investment into manufacturing in the UK and increase our global competitiveness 
and expertise.  
To integrate clean technologies like offshore wind, we must transform our energy system, 
building more network infrastructure and utilising smart technologies like energy storage. 
Our Offshore Transmission Network Review will set out our strategy to connect 
offshore wind in a clean and cost-effective way, and we will outline our plans for smart 
systems and introducing competition in onshore networks in the forthcoming Energy White 
Paper. 
The Ten Point Plan for a Green Industrial Revolution 9 
 
Advancing offshore wind could deliver… 
Support for  
up to 
60,000 jobs 
in 2030 
Around 
£20bn 
of private investment  
by 2030 
Savings of 
21MtCO2e 
between 2023 and 2032, or 
5% 
of 2018 UK emissions 
Policy impacts 
• 
Our commitment to a 40GW offshore wind target could help bring forth around £20bn 
of private investment in renewable energy.  
• 
Co-ordinated offshore wind connection could deliver up to £6bn in consumer savings 
by 2050, significantly reducing environmental and social impacts on coastal 
communities. 
• 
An estimated 60% of spending on UK offshore wind will be invested back into the 
economy by 2030. 
Target Milestones 
2020 
Competitive process launched to support modern, integrated portside 
infrastructure 
2021 
Consult on the introduction of more stringent supply chain plan requirements, 
and support up to twice the capacity of renewable generation in the next CfD 
round, with onshore wind and solar projects eligible to bid for CfD contracts 
2021 
The Offshore Transmission Network Review will publish an update by the end of 
the year, with a view to providing clarity for an enduring approach in 2021 
 
10 The Ten Point Plan for a Green Industrial Revolution 
 
Point 2: Driving the Growth 
of Low Carbon Hydrogen 
Hydrogen is the lightest, simplest and most abundant 
chemical element in the universe. It could provide a 
clean source of fuel and heat for our homes, transport 
and industry. The UK already has world-leading electrolyser companies, and 
unparalleled carbon capture and storage sites that we can maximise. Working 
with industry the UK is aiming for 5GW of low carbon hydrogen production 
capacity by 2030. Hubs where renewable energy, CCUS and hydrogen 
congregate will put our industrial ‘SuperPlaces’ at the forefront of 
technological development. We are also pioneering hydrogen heating trials, 
starting with a Hydrogen Neighbourhood and scaling up to a potential 
Hydrogen Town before the end of this decade. 
Working alongside partners in industry, our aim is for the UK to develop 5GW of low 
carbon hydrogen production capacity by 2030 that could see the UK benefit from 
around 8,000 jobs across our industrial heartlands and beyond. This will be supported by a 
range of measures, including a £240 million Net Zero Hydrogen Fund, and setting out 
next year, our hydrogen business models and a revenue mechanism for them to bring 
through private sector investment.  
The UK is already a world leader in investigating the use of hydrogen for heating, replacing 
fossil fuels like natural gas with hydrogen and hydrogen blends. We are keen to accelerate 
this work and support industry. For example, Ofgem will publish details later this month on 
the proposed network demonstration in the Levenmouth area of Fife, intended to provide 
hydrogen to 300 homes over a four-year period. Simultaneously, we are scaling-up the 
electric heat pump market, ensuring we can exploit a range of low carbon heating options 
available for UK consumers.  
Producing low carbon hydrogen at scale will be made possible by carbon capture and 
storage infrastructure, and we plan to grow both of these new British industries side by 
side so our industrial ‘SuperPlaces’ are envied around the world. We will also build on our 
success in offshore wind and other renewables, to bring forward the zero-carbon hydrogen 
of the future. Together this will develop resilient supply chains, support jobs and position 
UK companies at the forefront of an exciting growing global market, as well help things like 
industrial processes, industrial heat, power, shipping and trucking to make the shift to net 
zero. 
The Ten Point Plan for a Green Industrial Revolution 11 
 
Driving the growth of low carbon hydrogen could deliver... 
Support for up to 
8,000 jobs 
by 2030, potentially 
unlocking up to 
100,000 jobs 
by 2050 in a high 
hydrogen net zero 
scenario 
Over 
£4bn 
of private investment  
in the period  
up to 2030 
Savings of 
41MtCO2e 
between 2023 and 2032, or 
9% 
of 2018 UK emissions 
Policy impacts 
• 
Aiming for 5GW Hydrogen production capacity by 2030 in partnership with industry. 
• 
Lower carbon heating and cooking with no change in experience for domestic 
consumers through hydrogen blends and reducing the emissions of the gas used by 
up to 7%. 
Target Milestones 
2021 
Publish our Hydrogen Strategy and begin consultation on Government’s 
preferred business models for hydrogen 
2022 
Finalise hydrogen business models 
2023 
Work with industry to complete testing necessary to allow up to 20% blending of 
hydrogen into the gas distribution grid for all homes on the gas grid 
2023 
By 2023 we will support industry to begin hydrogen heating trials in a local 
neighbourhood 
2025 
We hope to see 1 GW of Hydrogen production capacity 
2025 
Will support industry to begin a large village hydrogen heating trial, and set out 
plans for a possible pilot hydrogen town before the end of the decade 
 
Case study: ITM POWER 
ITM Power is a manufacturer of PEM (proton exchange membrane) electrolysers, a 
technology which enables the generation of hydrogen from water and are active in projects in 
the UK and throughout Europe. The company is based in Sheffield. Coupled with a 
renewable energy supply, this production method is capable of producing zero carbon 
hydrogen. The Gigastack project explores the potential to scale up electrolyser size and 
integrate those units with offshore wind facilities. BEIS is currently supporting a consortium 
led by ITM Power along with Orsted, Phillips 66, and Element Energy through its Low Carbon 
Hydrogen Supply Programme. 
12 The Ten Point Plan for a Green Industrial Revolution 
 
Point 3: Delivering New and 
Advanced Nuclear Power 
Our electricity system will grow and could double in size 
by 2050 as demand for low-carbon electricity in sectors 
like heat and transport rises. Nuclear power provides a 
reliable source of low-carbon electricity. We are pursuing large-scale nuclear, 
whilst also looking to the future of nuclear power in the UK through further 
investment in Small Modular Reactors and Advanced Modular Reactors. 
The UK was home to the world’s first full-scale civil nuclear power station more than sixty 
years ago, and this industry now employs around 60,000 people in the UK. We see the 
ongoing potential of this technology. Whether a large-scale power plant, or next generation 
technologies such as Small and Advanced Modular Reactors, new nuclear will both 
produce low carbon power and create jobs and growth across the UK. We are pursuing 
large-scale new nuclear projects, subject to value-for-money. To support this, we will 
provide development funding. 
Alongside this, we are also looking to invest further in the next generation of nuclear 
technology. Subject to value-for-money and future spending rounds, we are announcing 
up to £385 million in an Advanced Nuclear Fund. This will enable investment of up to 
£215 million into Small Modular Reactors to develop a domestic smaller-scale power 
plant technology design that could potentially be built in factories and then assembled on 
site. It will unlock up to £300 million private sector match-funding.  
We are also committing up to £170 million for a research and development 
programme on Advanced Modular Reactors. These reactors could operate at over 
800°C and the high-grade heat could unlock efficient production of hydrogen and synthetic 
fuels, complementing our investments in carbon capture, utilisation and storage (CCUS), 
hydrogen and offshore wind. Our aim is to build a demonstrator by the early 2030s at the 
latest to prove the potential of this technology and put the UK at the cutting edge against 
international competitors. 
To help bring these technologies to market, we will invest an additional £40 million in 
developing the regulatory frameworks and supporting UK supply chains. 
New and advanced nuclear power could deliver... 
A large-scale nuclear 
power plant will 
support a peak of 
around 
10,000 jobs 
during construction 
Government support 
could unlock significant 
private investment, up to 
£300m 
for development of small 
modular reactors alone 
Each GW of nuclear 
power generation is 
enough to power 
2 million homes 
with clean electricity 
The Ten Point Plan for a Green Industrial Revolution 13 
 
Policy impacts 
• 
Key role for nuclear in delivering deep decarbonisation of our electricity system, 
alongside renewables and other technologies. 
• 
High-skilled jobs created and sustained across the UK. 
• 
Likely role for AMRs in decarbonising industry, heat and transport. 
Target Milestones 
2020 
Publication of the Energy White Paper 
2021 
Proposed launch of Phase 2 of UK SMR design development 
Mid 2020s 
Hinkley Point C comes online 
Early 2030s 
First SMRs and AMR demonstrator deployed in the UK 
 
Case study: Hinkley Point C 
The main construction for Hinkley Point C in Somerset started in 2016. It is one of the largest 
and most complex construction projects in the UK and is expected to take approximately ten 
years. The project will create around 25,000 employment opportunities during construction 
and 900 jobs throughout 60 years that it will be operational. 
The developer originally predicted that during construction, the South West economy would 
receive a boost of £1.5 billion, while during operation, a contribution of £40 million a year will 
be made. In May 2020, the developer reported that £1.67 billion had already been spent with 
companies in the South West. 
 
14 The Ten Point Plan for a Green Industrial Revolution 
 
Point 4: Accelerating the Shift 
to Zero Emission Vehicles 
Zero emission vehicles can be our most visible 
incarnation of our ability to simultaneously create jobs, 
strengthen British industry, cut emissions, and continue 
travelling. From 2030 we will end the sale of new petrol and diesel cars and 
vans, 10 years earlier than planned. However, we will allow the sale of hybrid 
cars and vans that can drive a significant distance with no carbon coming out 
of the tailpipe until 2035. The accompanying support package of £2.8 billion 
demonstrates our continued faith in British car manufacturing as the 
backbone of UK industry in the West Midlands, Wales and the North, bringing 
jobs and investment back into the UK whilst simultaneously reducing 
greenhouse gas emissions and improving the air we breathe. 
The UK is a leading a manufacturer of Electric Vehicles. The Nissan Leaf, produced in the 
UK, was the third highest selling EV in Europe in 2019. There are over 100 models of EVs 
on the market, and by 2025 nearly as many models as with conventional petrol and diesel 
vehicles are expected. With cars and vans making up nearly a fifth of emissions, we are 
taking decisive action to end the sale of new petrol and diesel cars and vans by 
2030, with all vehicles being required to have a significant zero emissions capability 
(e.g. plug-in and full hybrids) from 2030 and be 100% zero emissions from 2035. We 
will work with industry to make the transition to ensure it remains one of Britain’s success 
stories. Alongside this new phase-out date, we will publish a Green Paper next year on 
the UK’s post-EU emissions regulations. As we move forward with this transition, we 
will need to ensure that the tax system encourages the uptake of EVs and that revenue 
from motoring taxes keeps pace with this change, to ensure we can continue to fund the 
first-class public services and infrastructure that people and families across the UK expect. 
We must take advantage of the once in a generation opportunity to build a world-leading 
EV supply chain here in the UK and improve air quality in our towns and cities. We have 
committed up to £1 billion to support the electrification of UK vehicles and their supply 
chains, including developing “Gigafactories” in the UK to produce the batteries needed 
at scale. A single factory could employ around 2,000 people in highly skilled jobs. We are 
announcing the first £500 million of investment this Parliament to drive the 
electrification of the UK automotive sector, protect existing jobs including in the West 
Midlands, Wales and the North and support thousands of high-quality jobs across the UK.  
We will invest £1.3 billion to accelerate the roll out of charging infrastructure, 
targeting support on rapid charge points on motorways and major roads to dash any 
anxiety around long journeys, and installing more on-street charge points near homes and 
workplaces to make charging as easy as refuelling a petrol or diesel car. And whilst the 
costs of EVs are already falling, we will provide £582 million to extend the Plug-in Car, 
Van, Taxi and Motorcycle grants to 2022–23 to reduce their sticker price for the 
consumer.  
The Ten Point Plan for a Green Industrial Revolution 15 
 
We will also consult on a date for phasing out the sale of new diesel heavy goods 
vehicles (HGVs). We will invest £20 million next year in freight trials to pioneer 
hydrogen and other zero emission lorries, to support industry to develop cost-effective, 
zero-emission HGVs in the UK. 
Accelerating the shift to zero emission vehicles could deliver... 
Support for  
around 
40,000 
new jobs 
in 2030 
Around 
£3bn 
of private investment 
by 2026 
Savings of around 
5MtCO2e 
to 2032 and 
300MtCO2e 
to 2050 
Policy impacts 
• 
Realising carbon savings of around 300 Mt CO2 e to 2050.  
• 
Thousands more ultra-low and zero-emission cars and vans on UK roads, supported 
by additional funding for plug in vehicle grants. 
• 
Thousands more charge points in homes, workplaces, in residential streets and along 
motorways and major A roads. 
Target Milestones 
2021 
We will publish a Delivery Plan setting out key milestones to deliver the new 
phase out dates 
2021 
We will publish a Green Paper on the UK’s post EU emissions regulations and 
the car and van phase out dates, as well as launch a consultation on the phase 
out of new diesel HGVs 
2030 
We expect the network of charge points on England’s motorways and major A 
road to be extensive with more than 2,500 high powered charge points that can 
charge your car so it can drive over 100 miles, all in the time in the time it takes 
to have a cup of coffee 
2030 
End of sales of new petrol and diesel cars and vans 
2035 
All new cars and vans will be zero-emission from the tailpipe leading to cleaner, 
greener vehicles on UK roads. England’s motorways and major A roads will have 
around 6,000 high powered charge points 
16 The Ten Point Plan for a Green Industrial Revolution 
 
Point 5: Green Public Transport, 
Cycling and Walking 
As well as decarbonising private vehicles, we must 
increase the share of journeys taken by public transport, 
cycling and walking. We will therefore accelerate the 
transition to more active and sustainable transport by investing in rail and bus 
services, and in measures to help pedestrians and cyclists. We will fund 
thousands of zero-emission buses and give our towns and cities cycle lanes 
worthy of Holland. This will improve the air we breathe and increase both 
mental and physical health, as well as reduce emissions. 
We will invest tens of billions of pounds in enhancements and renewals of the rail 
network, £4.2 billion in city public transport and £5 billion on buses, cycling and 
walking, as announced by the Prime Minister in February. We will electrify more railway 
lines; end the complicated franchising model and create a simpler, more effective system; 
and create integrated bus and train networks in more places, with smart ticketing, more 
frequent services, and bus lanes to speed journeys. We will invest £120 million next year 
to begin the introduction of at least 4,000 more British built zero emission buses. 
Early next year, we will publish the first-ever National Bus Strategy, funded through the 
£5 billion of new money for buses and cycling announced by the Prime Minister, including 
more frequent and cheaper "superbus" networks and integrated ticketing between 
operators and modes. We will fund at least two all-electric bus towns, beginning this 
financial year, as well as developing the first fully zero-emission city centre. 
We will expand rail routes around our big regional cities, including Manchester and 
Birmingham. As set out in the manifesto, our long-term aim is to improve public transport 
in city regions to make it as good as London’s, which would save thousands of tonnes of 
carbon. In smaller places, we will improve buses, introduce more rural on-demand 
services, and restore many of the rail links removed in the Beeching era to give people the 
choice not to drive. We will progress the Midlands Rail Hub scheme in Birmingham and 
improvements in Manchester and Leeds, alongside Northern Powerhouse Rail to improve 
east-west links across the Pennines. 
We will build first hundreds, then thousands, of miles of segregated cycle lane and 
create more low-traffic neighbourhoods to stop rat-running and allow people to walk 
and cycle. We will expand school streets, which have caused dramatic falls in traffic and 
pollution around schools. We have already started this transformation with £250 million 
spending this year as part of the PM’s announcement that we will spend £2 billion over this 
Parliament. A new body, Active Travel England, will hold the budget, inspect schemes, 
and assess local authorities for their performance on active travel. We will also launch a 
national programme of support to increase uptake of electric bikes. 
The Ten Point Plan for a Green Industrial Revolution 17 
 
Decarbonising our public transport could deliver... 
Up to 
3,000 
jobs 
by 2025 
Government investment of 
£5bn 
in buses, cycling and 
walking this parliament 
Savings of around 
2MtCO2e 
from green buses, cycling and 
walking between 2023 and 2032 
Policy impacts 
• 
We will bring 4,000 zero emission buses onto our roads, representing 12% of the local 
operator bus fleet in England.  
• 
We will further electrify regional and other rail routes. 
• 
We will launch the first-ever National Bus Strategy, as part of the PM’s £5 billion 
funding, integrated ticketing between operators and modes and more bus lanes, 
making services faster, more attractive and cheaper to operate.  
• 
We will spend £500 million reopening lines and stations closed under the Beeching 
cuts.  
• 
Over 1,000 miles of safe and direct cycling and walking networks delivered by 2025 
with network plans developed and being built out in every town and city in England. 
Target Milestones 
Early 2021 
National Bus Strategy and first electric bus town 
2021 
First of 4,000 new zero-emission buses delivered 
2023–2024 
First rail lines reopened 
2025 
Cycle training available to every school child and adult who wants it 
By 2025 
We will double cycling rates from 2013 levels to 1.6 billion stages per year 
 
18 The Ten Point Plan for a Green Industrial Revolution 
 
Point 6: Jet Zero and 
Green Ships 
We will position the UK at the forefront of aviation and 
maritime technology to push forward low carbon travel 
and build on UK strengths. By taking immediate steps to 
drive the uptake of sustainable aviation fuels, investments in R&D to develop 
zero-emission aircraft and developing the infrastructure of the future at our 
airports and seaports – we will make the UK the home of green ships and 
planes. Internationally, we will continue to lead efforts to find solutions to 
global aviation and maritime emissions, including using our COP Presidency 
to develop a sector-led goal. 
A century ago, a Mancunian and a Glaswegian completed the first non-stop transatlantic 
flight and created civil aviation. Fast-forward to September 2020 when the first commercial 
aircraft powered by a hydrogen fuel cell took off in Cranfield. British innovation will unlock 
the world of sustainable fuels, turning these fossil fuel intensive journeys into lower carbon 
routes of transportation that allow the opportunity of global travel whilst also safeguarding 
our planet. To achieve this, we have established the Jet Zero Council as a sector-wide 
partnership to accelerate the development and adoption of new technologies to help 
develop our strategy to reach net zero aviation, which we will set out next year. We are 
investing £15 million into FlyZero – a 12-month study, delivered through the Aerospace 
Technology Institute (ATI), into the strategic, technical and commercial issues in designing 
and developing zero-emission aircraft that could enter service in 2030. 
Moving to sustainable fuels is one of the key steps to success that we can unlock. We will 
run a £15 million competition to support the production of Sustainable Aviation Fuels 
(SAF) in the UK, building on the success of the Future, Fuels for Freight and Flight 
Competition. We will establish a SAF clearing house, the first of its kind in Europe, to 
enable the UK to certify new fuels, driving innovation in this space. Alongside this, we 
intend to consult on a Sustainable Aviation Fuel mandate to blend greener fuels into 
kerosene, which will create a market-led demand for these alternative fuels. To support the 
emergence of a market in zero emission aircraft we will invest in R&D into the 
infrastructure upgrades required at UK airports to move to battery and hydrogen aircrafts. 
The UK has a strong history in shipbuilding, with the maritime sector employing 185,000 
people. To complement our work on aviation, we will invest £20 million into the Clean 
Maritime Demonstration Programme to develop clean maritime technology. We are 
already running hydrogen ferry trials in Orkney and due to launch a hydrogen refuelling 
port in Teesside, as we seek to revitalise our ports and coastal communities. 
The Ten Point Plan for a Green Industrial Revolution 19 
 
Taking action on net zero aviation and green ships could deliver… 
Up to 
5,200 jobs 
supported by a 
domestic SAF 
industry 
Future proofing the  
aerospace industry   
which is worth 
£12bn 
to the economy 
Savings of up to 
1MtCO2e 
by 2032 from clean maritime 
and nearly 
15MtCO2e 
by 2050 from SAF 
Policy impacts 
• 
These measures will enable the production of sustainable aviation fuels in the UK, 
supporting industry and driving fuel uptake. 
• 
Our action will cement our position as a global leader in aerospace, (worth £12 billion 
to the UK economy), and position the UK at the forefront of the zero-emission aircraft 
revolution. 
Target Milestones 
2021 
We will consult on the Aviation Decarbonisation Strategy 
2025 
We will consult on a SAF mandate and run a £15 million competition for fuel 
plants in 2021, with a mandate possibly starting in 2025 
 
20 The Ten Point Plan for a Green Industrial Revolution 
 
Point 7: Greener Buildings 
We will put our homes, workplaces, schools and 
hospitals at the heart of our green economic recovery, 
supporting 50,000 jobs and building new supply chains 
and factories in the UK. Making our buildings more 
energy efficient and moving away from fossil fuel boilers 
will help make people’s homes warm and comfortable, whilst keeping bills 
low. We will go with the grain of behaviour, and set a clear path that sees the 
gradual move away from fossil fuel boilers over the next fifteen years as 
individuals replace their appliances and are offered a lower carbon, more 
efficient alternative. 
Action on buildings can rapidly support jobs and level-up across the country. In addition to 
supporting around 50,000 jobs by 2030, today’s announcements provide an opportunity to 
develop the growing UK heat pump manufacturing base and expand supply chains for 
building efficiency. Funding and regulatory measures, delivered in partnership with 
industry, will stimulate near-term investment whilst supporting the most vulnerable. 
To future-proof new buildings and avoid the need for costly retrofit, we will seek to 
implement the Future Home Standard in the shortest possible timeline, and consult 
shortly on increased standards for non-domestic buildings so that new buildings have 
high levels of energy efficiency and low carbon heating. As is the common theme across 
this plan, we want to stimulate investment and manufacturing in the UK. We will aim for 
600,000 heat pump installations per year by 2028, creating a market led incentive 
framework to drive growth, and will bring forward regulations to support this especially in 
off gas grid properties. This ambition still leaves open the choice as to whether we 
ultimately pursue hydrogen heating, an electrified heating system, or a mixture of both, 
whilst we continue to pilot the options.  
We are providing £1 billion to extend the schemes announced by the Chancellor earlier in 
the year to further kickstart this market. We will extend the Green Homes Grant for 
another year to improve the energy efficiency of homes and replace fossil fuel heating. We 
will reduce emissions in schools, hospitals and public buildings by further funding for 
Public Sector Decarbonisation Scheme. We will transform the lives of more 
homeowners who live off the gas grid, particularly in rural areas, with upgrades to their 
heating systems through the Homes Upgrade Grant. And we will commit to further 
funding for the Social Housing Decarbonisation Fund to continue upgrading the least 
efficient social housing. 
Private renters too will benefit, as we strengthen energy efficiency requirements for 
private sector landlords. To support those least able-to-pay, we will extend the Energy 
Company Obligation to 2026, so suppliers can help improve the draughtiest and coldest 
homes. 
To go with the grain of consumer habits, we will improve energy efficiency standards of 
household products so they use less energy and materials, helping households and 
The Ten Point Plan for a Green Industrial Revolution 21 
 
businesses reduce their bills with minimal effort, including by launching an improved 
Energy Technology List website. And we will kickstart the green home finance market 
by consulting on introducing mandatory disclosure requirements for lenders on the 
energy performance of homes on which they lend and setting voluntary improvement 
targets. 
Developing greener buildings could deliver... 
Support for  
around 
50,000 jobs 
in 2030 
Around 
£11bn 
Of private investment in  
the 2020s 
Savings of 
71MtCO2e 
between 2023 and 2032, or 
16% 
of 2018 UK emissions 
Policy impacts 
• 
We are setting an ambition of 600,000 heat pumps installations per year by 2028. 
• 
Homes built to the Future Homes Standard will be ‘zero carbon ready’ and have  
75–80% lower carbon dioxide emissions than those built to current standards.  
• 
Our green home finance initiatives could help to improve the energy efficiency of 
around 2.8 million homes, improving around 1.5 million to EPC C standard by 2030. 
Target Milestones 
2021 
Set out our Heat and Buildings Strategy 
2021 
Launch a world class energy related products policy framework. We will 
push for products to use less energy, resources, and materials, saving 
carbon and helping households and businesses to reduce their energy 
bills with minimum effort 
By 2032 
Ensure that the public sector has reduced its direct emissions by 50% 
compared to a 2017 baseline 
22 The Ten Point Plan for a Green Industrial Revolution 
 
Point 8: Investing in Carbon 
Capture, Usage and Storage 
Carbon Capture, Usage & Storage (CCUS) will be an 
exciting new industry to capture the carbon we continue 
to emit and revitalise the birthplaces of the first Industrial 
Revolution. Our ambition is to capture 10Mt of carbon dioxide a year by 2030, 
the equivalent of four million cars’ worth of annual emissions. We will invest 
up to £1 billion to support the establishment of CCUS in four industrial 
clusters, creating ‘SuperPlaces’ in areas such as the North East, the Humber, 
North West, Scotland and Wales. We will bring forward details in 2021 of a 
revenue mechanism to bring through private sector investment into industrial 
carbon capture and hydrogen projects via our new business models to 
support these projects. 
CCUS technology captures carbon dioxide from power generation, low carbon hydrogen 
production and industrial processes, storing it deep underground where it cannot enter the 
atmosphere. This technology will be globally necessary, but no one country has yet 
captured the market. The UK has an unrivalled asset – our North Sea, that can be used to 
store captured carbon under the seabed. Developing CCUS infrastructure will contribute to 
the economic transformation of the UK’s industrial regions, enhancing the long-term 
competitiveness of UK industry in a global net zero economy. It will help decarbonise our 
most challenging sectors, provide low carbon power and a pathway to negative emissions. 
We will establish CCUS in two industrial clusters by mid 2020s, and aim for four of 
these sites by 2030, capturing up to 10 Mt of carbon dioxide per year. Developed 
alongside hydrogen, we can create these transformative “SuperPlaces” in areas such as 
the heart of the North East, the Humber, North West and in Scotland and Wales. Our £1 
billion CCUS Infrastructure Fund will provide industry with the certainty required to 
deploy CCUS at pace and at scale. These clusters will be the starting point for a new 
carbon capture industry, which could support up to 50,000 jobs in the UK by 2030, 
including a sizeable export potential. Alongside this, we will bring forward details in 2021 of 
a revenue mechanism to bring through private sector investment in industrial carbon 
capture and hydrogen projects, to provide the certainty investors require. 
The Ten Point Plan for a Green Industrial Revolution 23 
 
Investing in carbon capture usage and storage could potentially deliver… 
Support for  
around 
50,000 jobs 
by 20303 
Up to 
£1.bn 
of public investment  
by 2025 
Savings of around 
40MtCO2e 
between 2023 and 2032, or 
9% 
of 2018 UK emissions 
Policy impacts 
• 
Ambition to capture and store 10Mt of CO2 per year by 2030 – the equivalent of all the 
industrial emissions in the Humber or taking around 4 million cars off the road. 
• 
We will facilitate the deployment of CCUS in four clusters by 2030. 
Target Milestones 
2021 
Execute a process for CCUS deployment, working in collaboration with industry 
and set out further details of a revenue mechanism for industrial carbon capture 
and hydrogen projects 
2022 
New CCUS business models finalised 
2030 
Two clusters operational by the mid 2020s, subject to relevant value for money 
and affordability considerations and a further two clusters operational by 2030 
 
Case study: Tata CCUS 
Tata Chemicals Europe (TCE) are constructing, with the support of a £4.2 million grant from 
BEIS, the UK’s first industrial-scale Carbon Capture & Utilisation (CCU) demonstration plant 
at their site in Northwich, for the manufacture of high purity sodium bicarbonate. The plant will 
be commissioned in 2021 and is capable of capturing up to 40,000 tons per year of carbon 
dioxide and will reduce carbon emissions at the plant by 11 per cent. TCE exports 60% of its 
sodium bicarbonate production in the UK to over 60 countries across the globe. The CCU 
project will be a springboard for TCE to unlock further expansion into its export markets. 
 
3 
BEIS internal analysis using Energy Innovation Needs Assessment calculators. 
24 The Ten Point Plan for a Green Industrial Revolution 
 
Point 9: Protecting Our 
Natural Environment 
The natural environment is one of the most important 
and effective solutions we have for capturing and 
sequestering carbon long-term. We will safeguard our 
cherished landscapes, restore habitats for wildlife in order to combat 
biodiversity loss and adapt to climate change, all whilst creating green jobs. 
We will protect our natural environment through the creation of new National Parks and 
Areas of Outstanding Natural Beauty (AONB). We will start the process for designating 
more of England’s beautiful and iconic landscapes as National Parks and AONBs, 
safeguarding these areas for future generations and bringing more people within closer 
reach of nature. These new National Landscapes will play a key role in meeting the 
Government’s commitment to protect and improve 30% of UK land by 2030.  
We will immediately create more green jobs with a £40 million second round of the 
Green Recovery Challenge Fund. This fund will help create and retain thousands of jobs 
to work on nature conservation and restoration projects across England helping to improve 
biodiversity and tackle climate change.  
We are acting now to protect our precious landscapes and create nature restoration jobs. 
We will also accelerate the vital work needed to restore our natural ecosystems with the 
establishment of 10 long-term Landscape Recovery projects over the next four years. 
These Landscape Recovery projects will pilot land use change to restore wilder 
landscapes in England helping to sequester carbon and establish a Nature Recovery 
Network. And as we leave the EU, our new Environmental Land Management scheme 
will be a key vehicle in our efforts to combat climate change whilst also delivering other 
environmental benefits, by incentivising land management actions such as tree planting 
and peatland restoration. We will launch Environmental Land Management pilots next 
year as we move away from the Common Agricultural Policy, alongside Productivity 
Grants for farmers to invest in modern technology to make their businesses more efficient 
and more profitable, while reducing their emissions. 
Investment in flood defences will protect our homes, businesses, and communities from 
the risk of flooding, whilst also safeguarding our natural environment and helping us adapt 
to our changing climate. We will invest £5.2 billion in a six-year programme for flood 
and coastal defences including new innovative approaches to work with the power of 
nature to not only reduce flood risk, but deliver benefits for the environment, nature and 
communities. 
The Ten Point Plan for a Green Industrial Revolution 25 
 
Protecting our natural environment could deliver... 
Up to 
20,000 jobs 
from improving flood 
defences by 2027 
Up to 
£5.2bn 
of investment for 
flood defences 
Climate and 
biodiversity benefits 
from protecting our 
national landscapes 
Policy impacts 
• 
Increasing the Green Recovery Challenge Fund to £80 million will mean that over 100 
nature projects are delivered on the ground over the next 2 years. 
• 
New National Parks, AONB designations and Landscape Recovery projects will 
protect up to an additional 1.5% of natural land in England, contributing to our target of 
protecting 30% of UK land by 2030. 
• 
Establishing 10 Landscape Recovery projects could create the equivalent of well over 
30,000 football pitches of wildlife rich habitat. 
• 
Investment in flood defences will support 2,000 flood schemes across every region of 
England and will better protect over 336,000 properties from risk of flooding. 
Target Milestones 
2020–2021 
From the end of 2020 we will award the first £40 million in a range of 
nature projects across England through the Green Recovery Challenge 
Fund, with a second-round worth up to a further £40 million in 2021 
2021 
In 2021 we aim to start the process for designating new National Parks 
and AONBs 
2021 
Starting in 2021, we will invest £5.2 billion in a six-year capital investment 
programme for flood and coastal defences 
2022–2024 
Between 2022 and 2024 we aim to initiate 10 long-term Landscape 
Recovery projects 
26 The Ten Point Plan for a Green Industrial Revolution 
 
Point 10: Green Finance 
and Innovation 
Unleashing innovation and developing new sources of 
finance are fundamental for further developing the green 
technologies for net zero. We have committed to raising 
total R&D investment to 2.4% of GDP by 2027 and in July 2020 published 
the UK Research and Development Roadmap. The next phase of green 
innovation will help bring down the cost of the net zero transition, nurture 
the development of better products and new business models, and influence 
consumer behaviour. 
Our vision is for the UK to be a global leader in the technologies needed to decarbonise 
our economies and transition to net zero. Through our world class innovators, 
entrepreneurs and finance institutions we will focus progress on the key technologies of 
the future. Alongside specific green polices, this will also be backed by the record increase 
in public investment in research and development and the new agency designed to fund 
our scientists to pursue high risk, high reward work that might create a step change in the 
worlds path to net zero. 
To accelerate the commercialisation of innovative low-carbon technologies, systems and 
processes in the power, buildings, and industrial sectors, we will launch the £1 billion Net 
Zero Innovation Portfolio. The portfolio will focus on ten priority areas that correspond 
with this Ten Point Plan, including: floating offshore wind; nuclear advanced modular 
reactors; energy storage and flexibility; bioenergy; hydrogen; homes; direct air capture and 
advanced CCUS; industrial fuel switching; and disruptive technologies such as artificial 
intelligence for energy. We have already launched the first phase of a £100 million 
investment in brand-new Greenhouse Gas Removals including Direct Air Capture in 
November 2020, which captures carbon dioxide emissions directly from the air. We will 
provide £100 million for Energy Storage and Flexibility innovation challenges – 
essential technology as we move towards an increasingly renewables-heavy system to 
allow us to store energy over hours, days and even months. 
We are doubling down on our ambition to be the first country in the world to 
commercialise fusion energy technology, enabling low carbon and continuous power 
generation. We are already providing £222 million for the visionary STEP programme 
(Spherical Tokamak for Energy Production), which aims to build the world’s first 
commercially viable fusion power plant in the UK by 2040, and £184 million for new fusion 
facilities, infrastructure and apprenticeships to lay the foundations of a global hub for 
fusion innovation in the UK. 
Across land and sea, we will invest in transport innovation to trial and deploy new 
technologies, building on the world leading expertise of UK businesses and by investing £3 
million in the Tees Valley Hydrogen Transport Hub. On roads, the Government will 
invest £20 million across trials of zero emission heavy goods vehicles, testing 
technologies at scale. We will also continue to support climate ambition internationally and 
The Ten Point Plan for a Green Industrial Revolution 27 
 
grow global markets for clean technologies through our International Climate Finance 
programmes. Since June 2020, we have already committed £170 million to support green 
recovery across Latin America, Africa and Asia.  
Delivering clean investment at the scale and pace required will mean taking bold steps. 
That is why we will issue the UK’s first Sovereign Green Bond in 2021 subject to 
market conditions – and intend to follow up with a series of further issuances to meet 
growing investor demand for these instruments. These bonds will help finance sustainable 
projects, finance much-needed infrastructure investment and create green jobs across the 
country.  
We will harness the international reputation of the UK’s world leading financial sector to 
encourage private investment into supporting innovation and manage climate financial risk. 
In line with the recommendations of the Taskforce on Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD), we intend to introduce mandatory reporting of climate-related 
financial information across the economy by 2025, with a significant portion of 
mandatory requirements in place by 2023. We will position the UK, and the City of 
London, as a leader in the global voluntary carbon markets, including in response to the 
recommendations of the independent Taskforce on Scaling Voluntary Carbon Markets. 
Furthermore, we will implement a green taxonomy that defines which economic activities 
tackle climate change and environmental degradation to help better guide investors. 
Combined, these measures will provide investors with clarity and a clear framework to 
deliver the low carbon finance needed for a net -zero economy by 2050. We recognise that 
these signals are powerful long-term markers for investments, alongside other tools – such 
as a clear carbon price as we leave the EU Emissions Trading System. HMT’s Net Zero 
28 The Ten Point Plan for a Green Industrial Revolution 
 
Review will consider the choices across our tax, spend, regulatory and other levers to 
maximise growth opportunities and ensure an equitable balance of contributions across 
society. 
To ensure we have the skilled workforce to deliver net zero, we have launched the Green 
Jobs Taskforce, working in partnership with business, skills providers and unions, to help 
us develop plans for new long-term good quality, green jobs by 2030 and advise what 
support is needed for people in transitioning industries. The taskforce will conclude its 
work in spring 2021, with the actions feeding into our Net Zero Strategy to be published 
later in the year.  
Enhancing green finance and innovation could deliver... 
The potential for 
hundreds of 
thousands 
of jobs by 2030 
£1bn 
of government funding in  
net zero innovation with 
£1bn 
of matched funding and 
potentially 
£2.5bn 
of follow on funding from  
the private sector 
Enables 
carbon 
savings 
across low carbon 
sectors 
Policy impacts 
• 
By 2030, unlock the potential for 300,000 jobs in exports and domestic industry 
through new commercial opportunities across low carbon sectors. 
• 
Enables savings across low carbon sectors. 
Target Milestones 
2020 
Publish priorities within the Net Zero Innovation Portfolio 
2021 
Remaining priority innovation challenges within the Net Zero Innovation Portfolio 
launched 
2022 
Start vessel trials in Orkney, work towards a hydrogen port in Tees Valley, and 
launch feasibility studies for several clean maritime clusters across the UK 
2022 
Announce the site for UK fusion power plant demonstrator 
 
The Ten Point Plan for a Green Industrial Revolution 29 
 
Case study: The Green Finance Institute – building partnerships to 
accelerate green finance 
The Green Finance Institute, launched in July 2019 is led by Chair, Sir Roger Gifford, senior 
banker at SEB and former Lord Mayor of the City of London, and CEO, Dr Rhian-Mari 
Thomas OBE, former Barclays executive.  
Seed funded by the UK Government and the City of London Corporation, the Institute 
champions the UK’s green finance brand internationally and brings together global experts 
and practitioners to co-design sector-specific solutions that channel capital towards a clean, 
resilient and environmentally sustainable economy.  
The Institute’s early successes have included establishing a Coalition for the Energy 
Efficiency of Buildings and subsequent Zero Carbon Heating Taskforce of over 200 expert 
members, launching a Green Finance Education Charter, developing the case for the UK’s 
first Green Sovereign Bond from investors with more than $10 trillion assets under 
management and co-hosting the Green Horizons Summit, which featured global leaders from 
the public and private sector and attracted over 300,000 viewers across 90 countries. 
 
30 The Ten Point Plan for a Green Industrial Revolution 
 
Look Ahead: The Race to Zero 
The Ten Point Plan ensures that our recovery from coronavirus will be green, 
generate jobs and bolster the economy, whilst continuing to drive down 
emissions both now and in the future. There is however more to be done to 
achieve net zero by 2050, and the Ten Point Plan represents one more step 
on the path to ending the UK’s contribution to global emissions once and for 
all. In the coming year, we will set out further plans for reducing emissions 
across all the UK’s major economic sectors as outlined below, including our 
overall Net Zero Strategy, which will clearly set out our pathway to achieving 
net zero emissions by 2050. These efforts need to be undertaken in parallel 
with adaptation action, building resilience to the effects of climate change we 
are already experiencing. 
Climate change is a global issue, and the UK must use our own net zero ambition to 
encourage other nations to adopt similar targets. In November 2021, the UK will host the 
United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, Conference of the Parties 
(COP26), bringing together world leaders, climate experts, business leaders and citizens 
to agree ambitious action to tackle climate change. This December, the UK, along with the 
UN and France, will host a virtual leader-level Climate Ambition Summit to demonstrate 
the urgency of action and provide an important moment for international leaders to show 
they are committed to a greener, more resilient, sustainable path for the future.  
In 2015 at COP21, the UK played a leading role in securing the agreement of 195 parties 
to sign up to the historic Paris Climate Agreement, setting a goal of limiting global 
temperature increases to well below 2°C (vs pre-industrial levels) and to pursue efforts 
towards a 1.5°C goal. Whilst progress has been made through the Paris Agreement, 
current commitments will not achieve the temperature goals that were set, instead implying 
a devastating rise of around 3°C of warming by 2100. Increased action at COP26 is 
therefore vital, and we will use our COP26 Presidency role to work through five priority 
areas – Adaptation and Resilience, Zero Emission Vehicles, Energy Transition, Nature, 
and Finance. We are also considering the UK’s revised Nationally Determined Contribution 
(NDC), itself an embodiment of our efforts to reduce national emissions, and we will set 
this out by the Climate Ambition Summit. Our roadmap below of forthcoming 
announcements will demonstrate the UK’s commitment and action in delivering on our net 
zero target, encouraging similar levels of ambition from businesses, organizations and 
nations around the world. 
The Ten Point Plan for a Green Industrial Revolution 31 
 
Look Ahead 
 
32 The Ten Point Plan for a Green Industrial Revolution 
 
Notes on figures 
Any figures or values displayed without reference to a direct or external source have been 
calculated in accordance with standard HMG analysis procedure. Aggregate figures rely 
on simplifying assumptions without presuming macroeconomic market conditions and are 
subject to further consideration in upcoming sectoral strategies. For further guidance on 
methodology, see below. 
Emissions savings: The figures estimate the amount of greenhouse gas emissions 
(in million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent or MtCO2e) saved in total over the 
period 2023–2032. This corresponds to the period of the UK's 4th and 5th Carbon 
Budgets and savings are relative to HMG’s 2019 Energy and Emissions Projections 
(https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/updated-energy-and-emissions-projections-
2019). Central estimates are presented based on HMG modelling and analysis.  
Jobs impacts: The figures estimate the impact on jobs in the relevant low carbon sector 
and its supply chain in 2030. In most cases estimates are based on the number of full-time 
equivalent jobs and sustained HMG support required to deliver the deployment levels of 
low carbon technologies set out in the plan. Also accounted for are wider technology 
market opportunities. Central estimates are presented based on HMG analysis, drawing 
on sources such as the Energy Innovation Needs Assessment 
(https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/energy-innovation-needs-assessments).  
Investment: The figures estimate the amount of public (directly HMG funded) and private 
sector expenditure on capital (i.e., physical assets such as property, technology, buildings, 
infrastructure, and equipment) over the period to 2030 unless specified otherwise. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
© Crown copyright 2020 
This publication is licensed under the terms of the Open Government Licence v3.0 except 
where otherwise stated. To view this licence, visit nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-
government-licence/version/3 
This publication is also available on our website at www.gov.uk/government/publications 
Any enquiries regarding this publication should be sent to us at enquiries@beis.gov.uk 
