Cruachan: Proposed Upgrade of Units 3 & 4
Cruachan Power Station
Cruachan Power station opened in 1965, and was acquired by Drax in 
2018. It is one of only four pumped storage hydro stations in the UK 
and currently has a capacity of 440MW – enough to power almost 
500,000 homes.
Project Background & Rationale
The original Cruachan Units were designed and constructed during 
the 1960s, and whilst some equipment has been replaced over the 
intervening years, other components are reaching the end of their 
operational lifespan.
Following an assessment of current operations at Cruachan, Drax has 
identified potential to improve operational efficiency of Units 3 & 4;  
the power output can be increased by 20%.
Replacing Units 3 & 4 will: 
- increase power output.
- help ensure environmental improvements and other associated 
operational benefits. 
- enable other renewable generation to connect to the electrical 
network.
- have limited visual change to the appearance of the Units within 
the machine hall, as existing plant housing will be retained.
Welcome
Drax is pleased to share the plans to replace and upgrade Units 3 & 4 at Cruachan Power Station (‘The Hollow Mountain’). Drax is committed to 
enabling a zero carbon, lower cost energy future through engineering and innovation, and believe that these proposals present an opportunity to 
improve generation efficiency and increase power output with minimal impact on the environment and local communities.
Unit 3
Unit 4
Cruachan Power Station Machine Hall 
Cruachan: Proposed Upgrade of Units 3 & 4
Works Required
The work includes the complete replacement of the generator, turbine impellor and other turbine components. 
All embedded parts of the Units will remain in situ but will be validated for future operation. 
The work will require approximately 50 additional people on site at peak times during the assembly of the new Units. 
The new Units will arrive in parts via the main access tunnel and will be assembled underground. All construction equipment required for the new 
Units and parts removed from the old Units will be transported out of  the power station using the main access tunnel. 
Impact on the Existing Cruachan Operation
During the build process Unit 3 and Unit 4 will have separate outage periods. Each outage will be for approximately 6 months, with Unit 3 out of 
service in 2026 and Unit 4 in 2027. Exact outage periods will be agreed with the appointed contractor.
Project Stages 
• Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) Screening Request submitted to Scottish Ministers in June 2022 
with a response expected by October 2022. This will determine the supporting studies and information 
required to be submitted with the Section 36 Application. The application will then be prepared and 
submitted towards the end of 2022.  
• Drax are in the process of tendering the design and construction work. Feedback from prospective 
contractors is due around December 2022.
• Design work for the new turbine impellor will take around 12-months, including construction and testing 
(using a scale model of the turbine).
• It is expected that manufacturing the turbine impellor will take around 24-months.
• The works will take place during 2026 and 2027.
Operational Lifespan
The upgraded Units will be designed to last for a 40-year period. At the end of this period, there will be 
some original parts that have reached 100-years of operational service – a testament to the original design 
and an ongoing schedule of maintenance.
Cruachan: Proposed Upgrade of Units 3 & 4
Impacts
As a proposal to replace existing plant in-situ, impacts will be limited. The 
application will address the following topics:
• Construction noise: there will be limited impact on the surrounding 
area as the work will be completed underground.
• Traffic: whilst there will be a small increase in traffic, the removal of the 
existing unit components and supply of new equipment will take place 
over several months and so a daily increase of traffic per day is 
relatively limited. 
• Increased activity: there will be around 50 additional staff on-site at 
peak times during the build process, and where possible local 
recruitment will be prioritised. 
• Water management: Cruachan Power Station has a very limited 
operational impact on the water level of Loch Awe. Water levels on 
Loch Awe are managed by Scottish and Southern Energy and Drax has 
an agreement in place in this regard.
• Overhead lines: the upgrade of Units 3 and 4 will not 
impact on the existing overhead lines and no new overhead 
lines are required as a result of the proposals. 
• Fisheries: the installation may result in a change to the 
water flow between Cruachan Reservoir and Loch Awe 
(around 15%) and impact on fish populations in Loch Awe 
will be assessed. 
Draft 
Tube
Suction 
Cone
Main 
Rotor
Spiral 
Casing
Turbine 
Guide 
Bearing
Main 
Rotor
Thrust 
Collar
Guide 
Vanes
Main 
Inlet 
Valve
Shaft 
Coupling
Main 
Stator
Pony 
Motor 
Rotor
Slip 
Rings
Cruachan: Proposed Upgrade of Units 3 & 4
Inside the Units
Each unit weighs over 650 tonnes and houses many parts which all work together to generate electricity. 
Cruachan: Proposed Upgrade of Units 3 & 4
Feedback
Exhibitions are an important part of the development process, helping engage the local community and interested parties with proposals and work undertaken 
before an application is submitted to Scottish Ministers.
This exhibition is a chance for us to share our plans and is an opportunity to raise questions, concerns, ideas or comments that can be considered as part of the 
development process. Now that you’ve seen the initial proposal, we would be grateful if you can share your thoughts with us in any of the following ways:
Complete a Feedback Form
Available on the website
Email:
cruachanupgrade@stantec.com
Writing to:
Stantec, 5th Floor, Lomond House, 9 
George Square, Glasgow, G2 1DY
Comments should be submitted by:
5th October 2022
All information is available on the project 
website: www.drax.com/uk/about-us/our-
projects/Cruachan-1-upgrade
June 2022 
– EIA 
Screening 
Request 
submitted 
to Scottish 
Ministers
September 
2022 –
Public 
Consultation 
October 
2022 – EIA 
Screening 
Opinion 
expected 
from 
Scottish 
Ministers
December 
2022 –
Tender 
period for 
contractors 
ends
2023 – New 
turbine 
impellor 
designed
2023 - 2025 –
New turbine 
impellor 
manufactured 
2026 –
Construction 
expected to 
commence
2026 – Outage 
of Unit 3 for 
approximately 
6 months
2027 – Outage 
of Unit 4 for 
approximately 
6 months
Q.4 2022 –
Section 36 
Application 
to be 
submitted to 
Scottish 
Minsters
Q.4 2027 / 
Q1. 2028 
Units 3 and 4 
upgrade
complete and 
operational
Q.3 2023 –
Section 36 
Decision 
Issued 
Timeline
We are here
