 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MILLBROOK POWER 
PROJECT 
Millbrook, 
Bedfordshire 
Statement of Community Consultation 
September 2014 
www.millbrookpower.co.uk   
 
 
 
 
 
September 2014                                                  1 
 
This Statement of Community Consultation ("SoCC") is published in connection with 
a proposed up to 299 MW gas-fired power station, its integral gas and electrical 
connections and other related infrastructure at Rookery South Pit situated in the 
Marston Vale, approximately 3 km north of Ampthill and 7 km south-west of Bedford 
in Central Bedfordshire (the "Project").   
 
The capacity of the Project will be in excess of 50 MW of electricity. As such, it is 
classified as a Nationally Significant Infrastructure Project under the Planning Act 
2008. The Project therefore requires a Development Consent Order ("DCO") in order 
for it to be built. Any DCO would be made by the Secretary of State for Energy & 
Climate Change. 
 
This SoCC is part of a consultation process, required by the Planning Act 2008. This 
SoCC explains how Millbrook Power Limited (the promoter of the Project) proposes to 
consult people living in the vicinity of the Project, businesses and other organisations 
about the Project, in advance of submitting an application for a DCO for the Project in 
2015.   
 
MPL has consulted Central Bedfordshire Council and Bedfordshire Borough Council, 
as the local planning authorities, about the content of this Statement of Community 
Consultation and has had regard to their responses.   
 
Millbrook Power Limited (MPL) is a company established by Watt Power Limited. Watt 
Power Limited is seeking to develop gas fired power stations at Rookery South Pit and 
elsewhere in the UK to support the UK Government’s drive to a low carbon economy. 
 
A consultation/communication plan has previously been developed and is available 
from MPL or via its website www.millbrookpower.co.uk. 
 
 
 
This SoCC explains: 
 some details about the Project ; 
 
 
September 2014                                                  2 
 
 how MPL is publishing preliminary environmental information about the Project; 
 how MPL is going to consult local people and communities about the Project and 
what activities will be undertaken to give them access to information about the 
proposal and help them to understand what particular aspects of the proposal may 
mean to them, enabling them to provide informed feedback; 
 how people can become involved in shaping the Project before a DCO application 
is submitted by putting forward their views to influence the Project, particularly 
regarding specific options under consideration; and 
 how people can provide feedback to MPL from consultation activities and ensure 
that they are informed about the Project.  
 
The Project 
The key details of the proposed Project are: 
 the construction of a Power Generation Plant with a rated electrical output of 
between 50 and 299 MW of electricity. The plant will have up to 5 stacks, each up 
to 40 m in height. It will include a new purpose built access road from Green Lane 
to the site of the generating element of the Project;  
 the site for the Generating Equipment covers an area of approximately 4 ha;  
 the Power Generation Plant will produce electricity from natural gas. As such, fuel 
for the Power Generation Plant will be provided by an underground pipeline 
connection and will not be delivered by road to the site; 
 it will include the construction of a new electrical connection  (up to 500 m in length) 
to the National Grid and the construction of a new underground pipeline (up to 1600 
m in length) to bring natural gas to the Power Generating Plant from the National 
Transmission System;  
 it will create approximately 150 jobs during a construction period lasting two years 
and create up to 15 permanent jobs once commercial operations have begun;    
 it responds to the UK Government’s need for new gas generation in order to 
underpin the country’s energy security and its transition to a low-carbon economy; 
 the station would emit about 50% less carbon dioxide (CO2) than an equivalent 
sized coal-fired power plant, and is designed to operate flexibly so that it can 
respond quickly and efficiently to short-term variation in customer demand and 
intermittent output from wind power generation; and 
 
 
September 2014                                                  3 
 
 it is acknowledged that during construction and operation there is potential for 
negative impacts on some local communities and the environment, for example 
noise from the operation of the Power Generation Plant, the visual impact of the 
stacks and impacts on the local and regional transport network as a result of 
construction traffic. An Environmental Impact Assessment ("EIA") is being 
undertaken to understand and seek to reduce these and other potential effects of 
the Project’s construction and operation. An Environmental Statement will be 
submitted as part of the application for a DCO for the Project. More information on 
this process is provided below. The EIA process is also considering the potential 
positive effects of the operation of the Project. 
 
The Planning Process 
DCO applications for Nationally Significant Infrastructure Projects are submitted to the 
Planning Inspectorate which will process and examine the application before making 
a recommendation on that application to the relevant Secretary of State. The final 
decision on the application is made by the Secretary of State and if it is successful, a 
DCO will be made.  
 
The Government's policies in relation to Nationally Significant Infrastructure Projects 
are set out in National Policy Statements (NPSs). The proposed Project has been 
developed with regard to the relevant Energy NPSs, in particular EN-1 (Energy), EN-
2 (Fossil Fuel Electricity Generating Infrastructure), EN-4 (Gas Networks 
Infrastructure) and EN-5 (Electricity Networks Infrastructure).  EN-1 states that "gas 
will continue to play an important role in the electricity sector- providing vital flexibility 
to support an increasing amount of low-carbon generation and to maintain security of 
supply."   
 
When determining a DCO application, the Secretary of State must have regard to the 
relevant NPSs and must make a decision in accordance with these unless other 
considerations apply, including where she/he is satisfied that the adverse impact of a 
proposed development would outweigh its benefits.  
  
 
 
September 2014                                                  4 
 
When considering whether to accept an application for examination, the Planning 
Inspectorate must be satisfied that the applicant has undertaken effective pre-
application consultation.  Pre-application consultation is essential in allowing MPL to 
understand and minimise the impacts of the Project and to allow a thorough 
examination by the Planning Inspectorate. MPL is required to submit a Consultation 
Report with its application for a DCO.  This report will include details of the local 
community feedback received, explain how MPL has had regard to relevant feedback 
and will detail how MPL has complied with the consultation requirements of the 
Planning Act 2008. 
 
The community consultation described in this statement is carried out under Section 
47 of the Planning Act 2008. It is in addition to consultation that will be carried out with 
specific statutory consultees (such as nature conservation bodies) and those with 
relevant interests in land (including owners and occupiers within the Project boundary) 
under Section 42 of the Planning Act 2008. It is also in addition to wider notification of 
the Project under Section 48 of the Planning Act 2008.  
 
Information on the planning process for Nationally Significant Infrastructure Projects 
and the NPSs can be found at: 
http://infrastructure.planningportal.gov.uk/ 
www.decc.gov.uk/en/content/cms/meeting_energy/consents_planning/nps_en_infra/
nps_en_infra.aspx 
 
Environmental Information & Impacts 
The Project will be designed and developed to meet or exceed current quality, safety 
and environmental standards and efforts will be made to minimise its impact on the 
local environment, both during its construction and its operation.  The extent and scale 
of the development and MPL’s proposals to mitigate its impacts will be consulted upon 
locally and will be amongst the issues considered by the Planning Inspectorate on 
behalf of the Secretary of State. 
 
Because of the nature and size of the Project, MPL is undertaking an EIA pursuant to 
the Infrastructure Planning (Environmental Impact Assessment) Regulations 2009. 
 
 
September 2014                                                  5 
 
Therefore, the Project is classed as an EIA development. The EIA considers the likely 
significant environmental effects of the Project including those on air and water quality, 
noise, visual and cumulative impact, traffic, local ecology, archaeology and heritage 
and socio-economics.   
 
MPL has consulted with various statutory bodies concerning the scope of the EIA, 
including local authorities, the Environment Agency, the Highways Agency, Natural 
England and utility providers. A request for a Scoping Opinion was submitted to the 
Planning Inspectorate on June 20th 2014, accompanied by a Scoping Report. The 
Scoping Report outlines which environmental topics will be covered by the EIA and 
how the assessments will be undertaken. The Planning Inspectorate issued its formal 
Scoping Opinion on July 28th 2014.  
 
These 
documents 
are 
available 
on 
the 
Millbrook 
Power 
website 
(www.millbrookpower.co.uk) and via the dedicated section on the Planning 
Inspectorate’s website:  
http://infrastructure.planningportal.gov.uk/projects/eastern/millbrook-power/ 
 
As part of the pre-application consultation materials on the proposed Project, MPL will 
publish a Preliminary Environmental Information Report ("PEIR") and a non-technical 
summary ("NTS") of the same.  The PEIR presents the information gathered to date 
and provides the results of MPL’s preliminary assessments as to the likely significant 
environmental effects of the Project.   It does not set out the final findings but will 
include information on provisional mitigation measures.  During consultation, MPL will 
make available details on landscaping proposals and other measures to mitigate the 
Project’s impact.  MPL will provide copies of the PEIR and the NTS to Central 
Bedfordshire Council and Bedford Borough Council as the local planning authorities. 
Both documents will also be made available at: the main office of Central Bedfordshire 
Council in Chicksands, Shefford; at the main office of Bedford Borough Council in 
Bedford; local libraries; at public exhibitions and on the MPL website.  
 
When the EIA process is complete and MPL submits its application for a DCO, it will 
be accompanied by an Environmental Statement. This will report on the likely 
 
 
September 2014                                                  6 
 
significant environmental effects of the Project identified in the EIA and will explain the 
mitigation measures to avoid or reduce these.  
 
Public Consultation 
The views of the local community about the Project are important.  In June 2014, MPL 
carried out a non-statutory consultation process sharing its initial plans with the public 
at three exhibitions held in Lidlington, Stewartby and Marston Moretaine.  At the 
exhibitions and since, MPL has received and responded to comments on the proposed 
Project and its impact on the environment, local communities and the local economy.    
 
a. What are we now consulting on and when? 
In the statutory phase of consultation commencing on 13th October 2014 (and finishing 
on 16th November 2014), MPL will seek views on the overall scope and impact of the 
Project, including the integral electrical connection and gas connection. Only after MPL 
has had regard to the consultation responses received will the application for a DCO 
for the Project be finalised and submitted.  
 
Responses will, in particular, be invited on: 
 
• The layout of the Power Generation Plant within the Project Site; 
• Route option(s) for accessing the gas and electricity connection infrastructure 
during construction and maintenance; 
• The preferred route option for the gas connection; and 
• The proposed electrical connection 
• The findings of the preliminary assessment on the likely significant 
environmental effects of the Project during construction and operation, as set 
out in the PEIR. 
The consultation explained in this Statement will run for 35 days ending on 16th 
November 2014. Comments about the project must be received by MPL by this date.   
 
b. Who will we consult with? 
 
 
September 2014                                                  7 
 
The Planning Act 2008 states that those ‘living in the vicinity of the land’ should be 
consulted.  We have discussed the scope of our consultation with Central Bedfordshire 
Council and Bedford Borough Council as the local planning authorities, and have 
identified and agreed the Consultation Zones that form the basis of our community 
consultation.  
 
MPL will carry out its community consultation activities in two areas: a Core 
Consultation Zone (CCZ) that equates to a 5 km radius from the Power Generation 
Plant Site and an Outer Consultation Zone (OCZ) that equates to a radius of 10 km. 
These consultation zones were chosen following feedback from local elected 
representatives and are in accordance with those used by Covanta for the Rookery 
South Energy from Waste Generating Station, even though the impact of the Project 
is expected to be considerably less than the Energy from Waste scheme. 
 
The CCZ has been designed to include the main population areas in the vicinity of the 
Power Generation Plant Site that have the potential to be impacted by the Project and 
expected to have the greatest interest in the Project   The zone includes all or parts of 
the following parish council areas: Marston Moreteyne, Millbrook, Houghton Conquest, 
Ampthill, Maulden, Lidlington, Stewartby and Wootton. An information leaflet will be 
sent to households, businesses and institutions in the CCZ and the CCZ will be the 
focus of public exhibitions.  
 
 
September 2014                                                  8 
 
Proposed CCZ – approx. 5 km radius from the Power Generation Plant Site 
 
 
September 2014                                                  9 
 
 
Proposed OCZ – 10 km radius from the Power Generation Plant Site 
Communities within the OCZ will be informed about the Project (via newspaper 
advertisements, posters, media coverage and contact with parish councils and other 
relevant local organisations in the OCZ) and given the opportunity to comment on our 
plans for the Project.  The outer zone includes the main population area of Bedford.   
 
MPL does not anticipate that the communities and businesses that lie within the OCZ 
will be significantly impacted by the Project’s construction and operation although MPL 
recognises that those living and working within the OCZ may be interested in the 
Project.  Outside the two zones, there may well be others interested in MPL’s plans. 
These people will also be reached through local/regional newspaper advertising and 
media coverage (print, broadcast and social media). Feedback that is received within 
 
 
September 2014                                                  10 
 
the consultation period will be considered by MPL as it finalises its proposals for the 
Project. 
 
c.  How will we consult?  
MPL will seek and receive people’s views through a number of activities: 
 Public exhibitions will be held at Lidlington, Marston Moretaine, Stewartby and 
Ampthill within the CCZ (see the table below for locations and dates of the public 
exhibitions);  
 An information leaflet will be sent to households, businesses and institutions in the 
CCZ, and made available at local council offices, local libraries and other civic 
community venues in the area. The leaflet will also be sent to those groups that 
are defined as “hard to reach” (such as the Community Engagement Network, the 
Older People’s Reference Group and the Youth Parliament). It will give background 
on the Project, the consultation process and how individuals can engage in the 
consultation.  The leaflet will be made available at libraries and council offices in 
the OCZ; 
 Copies of the leaflet, the SoCC, The Preliminary Environmental Information Report 
and the Non-Technical Summary as well as other information about the Project will 
be available (in addition to the main council offices of Central Bedfordshire Council 
and Bedford Borough Council) at Marston Vale Forest Centre, Marston Moretaine, 
MK43 0PR which is open seven days a week between 10.00am and 4.00pm, as 
well as the following libraries: 
 
Bedford Library 
Harpur Street, Bedford, MK40 1PG 
Mon/Tues/Wed/Fri  09.00 – 18.00 
Thurs                     09.00 – 13.00 
Sat                         09.00 – 17.00 
Sun                        Closed 
Ampthill Library, 
1 Dunstable Street, Ampthill, Bedford, MK45 2NL 
Mon/Wed/Fri          10.00 – 18.00 
Tues                      Closed 
Thurs                     14.00 – 18.00 
Sat                         10.00 – 13.00 
Sun                        Closed 
Wootton Library 
Lorraine Road, Wootton, MK43 9LH 
Mon/Fri                  14.00 – 18.00 
Tues                      Closed 
 
 
September 2014                                                  11 
 
Wed                      10.00 – 1300 / 
                             1400 -18.30 
Thurs                     Closed 
Sat                         10.00 – 13.00 
Sun                        Closed 
 
 The information leaflet and other information about the Project can be made 
available in other formats (eg large print or braille) and languages upon reasonable 
request; 
 A website (www.millbrookpower.co.uk) provides information on the Project as well 
as access to documents, and provide visitors with the opportunity to ask questions 
or make comments online; 
 An e-mail address to which individuals can write to provide their feedback is 
info@millbrookpower.co.uk; 
 A Freepost mailbox to which people can send questions or comments is Freepost 
RTE-JYYB-ERSR, Millbrook Power Ltd 49 York Place, Edinburgh EH1 3JD; 
 MPL will also notify the local community about the Project and the consultation 
events via posters on local noticeboards, newspaper advertisements and media 
coverage;  
 In addition, MPL will contact a broad spectrum of local stakeholders. These will 
include elected representatives, local community, special interest groups (including 
those “hard to reach groups” such as the Community Engagement Network, the 
Older People’s Reference Group and the Youth Parliament), and local business 
groups. MPL will provide them with information on the Project and undertake 
briefings where appropriate. 
 
Individuals and organisations wishing to respond should include their name and an 
address where correspondence about the response can be sent. Responses may be 
made public, subject to data protection laws. 
 
Comments made at any stage of the consultation process will be recorded and 
carefully considered by MPL as part of the process of preparing the final proposals for 
its application to the Planning Inspectorate.  
 
 
 
September 2014                                                  12 
 
KEY DATES 
 
Mid September 
Statement of Community Consultation published 
13th October 
Consultation period starts 
31st October – 4th 
November 
PUBLIC EXHIBITIONS  
Friday 31st October, 
1500-1900  
Marston Moretaine Village Hall, Bedford Road, 
Marston Moretaine, MK43 0LD 
Saturday 
1st 
November, 
0900-
1300 
Stewartby Village Hall, Stewartby Way, Stewartby, 
MK43 9LX 
Monday 3rd 
November   
1600-2000 
Ampthill Masonic Centre, Old Court House, Church 
Street, Ampthill, MK45 2PL 
Tuesday 
4th 
November, 
1100- 
1500 
Lidlington Village Hall, High Street, Lidlington, MK43 
0RT 
16th November 
Consultation period closes 
Late February 2015 
DCO application submitted 
 
 
Contact details 
MPL welcomes questions and comments: 
Website:  
www.millbrookpower.co.uk 
Email:  
info@millbrookpower.co.uk 
Post: 
Freepost RTE-JYYB-ERSR, Millbrook Power Ltd 49 York Place, 
Edinburgh EH1 3JD 
Phone: 
0131 550 3380 
 
 
