Drax Group plc Modern 
Slavery Statement 2019
        Modern 
Slavery Act
Modern Slavery Statement 2019
Modern Slavery Statement 2019
2
3
Introduction
“We believe in doing the right thing”
In this, our fourth Modern Slavery Statement, we 
outline the progress we’ve made in 2019 and our 
planned improvements for 2020.
We’re making this Statement for the financial 
year ending December 2019 and according to the 
requirements of section 54 part 6 of the Modern 
Slavery Act 2015. 
This Statement applies to all companies within the Drax 
Group (“Drax”) that are required to publish a Statement, 
as listed in the ‘statement approval’ section.
Drax Group
Haven Power
Opus Energy
Drax Biomass
Visit Cruachan
For further information on Drax and 
our earlier Modern Slavery Statements, 
please see our websites:
Organisational structure
Drax operates an integrated value chain across three core areas of activity in the US 
and the UK: 
• Biomass production
• Power generation and system support services
• Business to Business (B2B) energy supply and management solutions
Safety, sustainability and operational excellence underpin all our activities.
Asset
Description
Daldowie Fuel 
Plant, UK
Daldowie Fuel Plant processes sludge from a wastewater 
treatment plant and converts it into dry, low-odour fuel pellets. 
Daldowie can convert 1,000 tonnes of sludge into 23.5 tonnes 
of biomass pellets for use as a sustainable fuel source. This 
safely disposes large volumes of sludge that might otherwise 
end up in landfill. 
Drax Biomass, US
Drax Biomass International manufactures compressed wood 
pellets produced from sustainably managed working forests (in 
Louisiana, Mississippi and Arkansas) that supply fuel to Drax 
Power Station. 
Headquartered in Monroe, Louisiana, the company owns 
and operates three wood pellet manufacturing plants: Amite 
BioEnergy in Gloster, Mississippi; Morehouse BioEnergy near 
Bastrop, Louisiana; and LaSalle BioEnergy, near Urania, Louisiana.
A port facility in Baton Rouge, Louisiana manages the shipping 
of the compressed wood pellets.
Our UK and US biomass production assets include:
Modern Slavery Statement 2019
Modern Slavery Statement 2019
4
5
Asset
Description
Haven Power
Haven Power supplies and manages electricity for large 
industrial and commercial customers, as well as smaller 
businesses. Haven Power supplies renewable electricity as 
standard, and at no extra cost to customers.
Opus Energy
Opus Energy supplies electricity and gas to businesses and 
has partnerships with over 2,000 independent UK renewable 
energy generators. This provides a market for power from 
renewable energy sources such as wind, solar, hydro and 
anaerobic digestion.
Our UK energy supply businesses include:
Our modern slavery programme
Governance
Employment 
practices
Supplier 
contracts
Policies and 
procedures
Risk  
assessment
Speak up 
culture
Training
Due diligence
Asset
Description
Drax Power Station
Drax Power Station is the biggest renewable generator in the 
UK. It supplies 11% of the UK’s renewable power and generates 
enough power to keep the lights on in more than 6 million 
homes.
Cruachan Power 
Station
Cruachan Power Station is one of only four pumped hydro 
storage stations in the UK and has a capacity of 440 MW – 
enough to power more than 90,000 homes.
Hydro-electric 
power stations
Lanark consists of two hydropower stations – at Bonnington 
and at Stonebyres – and has a total capacity of 17 MW. Galloway 
comprises six power stations (Drumjohn, Kendoon, Carsfad, 
Earlstoun, Glenlee and Tongland), eight dams and a series of 
tunnels, aqueducts and pipelines that help to control the flow of 
the water - and has a total capacity of 109 MW.
Combined cycle 
gas turbines 
(“CCGTs”)
Drax has four CCGTs - Damhead Creek (805 MW), Rye House 
(715 MW), Shoreham (420 MW) and Blackburn Mill (60 MW).
Our UK power generation assets include:
Modern Slavery Statement 2019
Modern Slavery Statement 2019
6
7
Our Modern Slavery Working Group (MSWG) is 
responsible for the development and delivery of our 
modern slavery programme.
Our Ethics and Business Conduct Committee (EBCC), a 
sub-committee of our Executive Committee, oversees 
our modern slavery programme. 
The MSWG provides a quarterly report on its activity to 
EBCC for review.
The EBCC provides an annual report on its decisions 
and activity to the company’s Audit Committee, which 
comprises executive and non-executive directors.
The EBCC:
• Has approved a protocol, based on guidance from 
the Home Office, that we must follow if we discover 
modern slavery in our business or supply chain
• Is responsible for making sure that Drax takes steps to 
investigate and remediate the risk of modern slavery, 
both within our own business and our supply chain
No cases of modern slavery have been escalated to the 
EBCC to date. We continue to work with our employees 
and suppliers to raise awareness and promote 
transparency in our supply chains.
Governance
Progress in 2019:
• The company restructured the MSWG 
to ensure inclusion of representatives 
from across our business (i.e. 
Sustainable Business; Business Ethics; 
Procurement; Fuel Procurement; HR; 
Biomass Sustainability Compliance; and 
Freight and Logistics) and to improve 
the effectiveness and timeliness of 
delivering actions
•  The MSWG developed a 3-year rolling 
continual improvement programme, 
with an accountable lead assigned to 
each workstream, to drive action and 
provide progress updates at each bi-
monthly meeting
• Our modern slavery programme was 
subject to internal audit and achieved a 
positive outcome
In 2020, we plan to:
• Strengthen the EBCC agreed protocol 
by adding a detailed remediation plan
• Assess the effectiveness of our modern 
slavery training through employee focus 
groups
“The MSWG developed a 
3-year rolling continual 
improvement programme, 
with an accountable 
lead assigned to each 
workstream.”
Modern Slavery Statement 2019
Modern Slavery Statement 2019
8
9
Risk Assessment
“We’re committed to identifying 
and addressing modern slavery that 
could be connected to both our 
business and supply chain.”
Due to the controls and practices we’ve adopted (as 
described in the ‘employment practices’ section), we 
believe the risk of modern slavery in our own business  
is very low. 
Because our supply chain is varied and complex, the 
risk of modern slavery is higher.
We have over 2,500 suppliers across our procurement 
activities. We engage with them in many different 
industries, including forestry, mining, manufacturing, 
freight and logistics, engineering, construction, IT and 
site services.
The Global Slavery Index, which is built into our 
due diligence platform, continues to contribute to 
the risk assessment of relevant potential suppliers. 
If the assessment of an organisation regarding 
modern slavery is medium or higher risk, we issue a 
supplementary survey for completion. The survey 
includes questions on underage workers, employee 
rights and freedoms, use of foreign and migrant 
workers, due diligence processes, policies and 
procedures.
From a modern slavery perspective, we currently 
consider our supply chains involving Belarus, Russia, 
Ukraine, India (sub tier 1) and China (sub tier 1) to be 
higher risk.
Supply chain mapping
The following graphics provide statistics on our 2019 
fuel supply procurement activity. Of those countries 
listed, we consider Belarus, Russia and Ukraine higher 
risk for modern slavery and carry out additional due 
diligence on these supply chains.
2019 fuel procurement by 
country:
Progress in 2019:
• Completed our annual risk assessment, 
in line with Home Office guidance, and 
reported on it to the EBCC
• Updated our Group-wide modern slavery 
risk register, which was subject – like the 
risk assessment – to review by the EBCC
• Issued the modern slavery survey to 
appropriate third parties and assessed 
responses, following up as required
• Commenced a project to map our higher 
risk non-fuel supply chains, including 
our smart meter manufacturing supply 
chains
• Progressed the consolidation of our 
approved supplier list across our power 
generation assets
In 2020, we plan to:
• Progress the non-fuel supply chain 
mapping project, including the selection 
and adoption of a new tool to assist the 
mapping process, as necessary
• Reflect any updates to the Global Slavery 
Index in our due diligence platform, as 
required
Non-fuel supply:
The following graphic provides statistics 
on our 2019 non-fuel procurement activity, 
by percentage of spend and geography, on 
our tier 1 supply. 100% of our spend is with 
tier 1 suppliers based in countries that are 
lower risk for modern slavery.
65%
United States
4.6 million tonnes
16%
Canada
1.1 million tonnes
9%
Latvia
0.6 million tonnes
2%
Portugal
0.2 million tonnes
2%
Russia
0.2 million tonnes
Biomass procurement  
by country 2019
* Provisional data used  
for Dec 2019 and may be  
subject to minor changes
42%
Russia
236,330 tonnes
28%
UK
159,492 tonnes
22%
USA
121,298 tonnes
Coal procurement by country 2019 
(Data refers to coal purchased and delivered  
to UK ports in 2019) 
2%
Estonia
0.1 million tonnes
2%
Brazil
0.1 million tonnes
1%
Belarus
<0.1 million tonnes
1%
Other European
<0.1 million tonnes
8%
USA / UK blend
45,266 tonnes
91.43%
UK
4.58%
Switzerland
1.12%
USA
1.19%
Germany
0.55%
Czech Republic
0.23%
Ireland
Top 10 tier 1 countries of  
origin based on spend
% of 2019 non-fuel supply  
spend by country
0.18%
France
0.16%
Netherlands
0.11%
Norway
0.08%
Australia
We have good transparency of our fuel 
supply chains. It’s more challenging 
to map the supply chain for non-fuel 
suppliers and their sub-contractors 
(e.g. those involved in the production 
of smart meters or replacement parts 
for our generating assets). In 2019, our 
Procurement team commenced a project 
to map these supply chains. 
In the meantime, our policy is to carry 
out due diligence on all suppliers prior 
to contracting. We also endeavour to 
include obligations within our agreements 
with suppliers for them to cascade our 
standards to sub-contractors. 
Modern Slavery Statement 2019
Modern Slavery Statement 2019
10
11
Due Diligence
“We’re committed to conducting 
business with honesty and integrity, 
and in accordance with applicable 
laws and regulations.”
Country approval
Our due diligence system automatically calculates the 
geographic risk assessment of potential third parties, 
based on several system-hosted indices. In relation to 
modern slavery, these include the Global Slavery Index. 
The EBCC must approve conducting business in 
higher risk countries before it happens. The EBCC can 
consider blanket country approvals or specific contract 
approvals, depending on the consolidated commercial 
interest in the underlying country and the level of 
identified risk associated with the territory.
Supplier approval
Following country approval, potential 
suppliers residing in those jurisdictions 
can be put forward for due diligence. 
We carry out due diligence checks on 
suppliers and, where appropriate, their 
associated persons and supply chain. 
Should we identify concerns during the 
process, we may procure enhanced due 
diligence from a specialist service provider 
before escalation to the EBCC. The EBCC 
will decide whether to appoint the supplier.
As reported in our 2018 statement, we 
implemented a new due diligence platform 
which all our business units use, both in the 
UK and the US.
We use the platform to perform both the 
initial due diligence and the continuous 
monitoring of suppliers. Designated 
employees at the local business units 
review the monitoring alerts and, if 
appropriate, escalate to the Group Business 
Ethics team.
Biomass supplier audits
To supplement our existing due diligence 
procedures for low volume, non-woody 
biomass, we engaged a third-party audit 
company in 2019 to complete two audits. 
The audit scope includes human rights 
and covers the risks identified at a regional 
level. Suppliers seeking approval and 
appointment need to address all findings.
Modern slavery instances
In 2019, our due diligence processes 
identified no instances of modern slavery.
Progress in 2019:
• Improved our third-party due diligence 
process by building a request form 
into Drax’s self-service portal, to help 
employees trigger and then track 
the completion of due diligence. 
Various internal communications and 
our mandatory learning programme 
supported the deployment of the 
functionality 
• Strengthened the modern slavery survey 
hosted within our due diligence platform
• Agreed with the EBCC a due diligence 
approach relating to trial volumes of 
potential new fuels 
•  Completed audits – including human 
rights content – on two sunflower mills 
in Russia 
•  Identified the manufacture of our 
smart meters as a potential risk area 
and reviewed an independent audit 
report conducted at the manufacturing 
facilities in China in 2019. Though this 
audit focused on production and quality 
management processes, it provided 
evidence of safe working conditions. 
We intend to include further monitoring 
in the non-fuel supply chain mapping 
project.
In 2020, we plan to:
•  Evaluate the appropriateness of our 
approach to trial fuel volumes, including 
benchmarking with another UN Global 
Compact Modern Slavery Working Group 
member
• Strengthen the human rights content of 
our third-party fuel supplier audits
Modern Slavery Statement 2019
Modern Slavery Statement 2019
12
13
Policies and 
Procedures
“We expect our people to work in 
accordance with our business values 
and principles. Our HR policies and 
procedures ensure our people have 
the appropriate rights to work and 
are employed in accordance with 
applicable legislation.”
We provide online access to our “Doing the right thing” 
handbook. This mandatory, principles-based handbook 
forms part of our business ethics documentation 
framework and sets out our values and the behaviours 
we expect from our people. The handbook is 
supplemented by policies, procedures and guidance 
that provide further information on the obligations 
applicable to Drax and how we will comply with 
them. All our written materials are readily available to 
employees via our Group Business Ethics SharePoint.
We have a Corporate Crime policy in place that provides 
specific detail in respect of modern slavery, in addition 
to our Due Diligence guide. 
Should an employee fail to meet the standards 
expected by the business, we’ll fully investigate the 
matter in line with the relevant terms of employment 
and disciplinary procedures. If necessary, we’ll take 
disciplinary action.
Progress in 2019:
• Drafted Employee and Supplier Codes of 
Conduct 
 
– Noting that the Employee Code of 
Conduct will incorporate the current 
“Doing the right thing” handbook 
 
– Engaged a third-party to work with us 
to create interactive versions of the 
Codes
 
– Embedded eLearning will also feature 
in the Codes, helping us to reach out to 
more suppliers on the topic of modern 
slavery
• Updated our Corporate Crime policy 
(including modern slavery content)
 
– The revised document was subject 
to external legal review and Board 
approval
 
– The policy was rolled out as a 
mandatory read to all employees, 
temporary workers and relevant 
consultants via our Learning 
Management System (c. 3,000 people)
•  Integrated our new generating assets 
into our Business Ethics programmes 
and documentation framework
In 2020, we plan to:
• Seek Board approval for the new 
Employee Code of Conduct
• Publish the Employee Code of Conduct
•  Separate the content of our Corporate 
Crime policy into its constituent parts 
(such as a Human Rights policy, in 
relation to Modern Slavery)
Modern Slavery Statement 2019
Modern Slavery Statement 2019
14
15
Employment 
Practices
“We do not tolerate any form 
of human trafficking, forced or 
bonded labour or the exploitation 
of children or vulnerable persons 
in our own business or our supply 
chains. We’re committed to tackling 
this abhorrent crime.”
We strive to be an inclusive workplace and value 
diversity, with policies and practices in place to 
encourage this. We currently employ over 2,900 people 
across the UK and the US. 
Our HR strategy centres around valuing people and 
focusing on talent, raising business performance, 
building capability through our people, and developing 
a high performing organisation. Our employees are at 
the heart of our success and are key enablers of our 
business strategy and our ethical culture.
A safe and healthy workplace is paramount to our 
business and so our employees benefit from a range 
of policies that support them. These include policies 
designed to enable wellbeing, to accommodate 
different work and lifestyle preferences, to encourage 
employees to raise grievances or concerns, and to 
support a diverse, inclusive and ethical workplace.
Drax is committed to maintaining high 
standards in its employment practices and 
to giving colleagues employment security. 
A high proportion of our employees are on 
permanent contracts.
Although the risk of modern slavery 
taking place within our business is much 
lower than through our supply chain, our 
recruitment procedures nevertheless 
incorporate several steps designed to 
eliminate such risks. These include:
• Carrying out “right to work” checks and 
ensuring that the agencies we use to 
supply temporary workers carry out 
equivalent checks
• Carrying out pre-employment checks 
to verify the identity of prospective 
employees and to ensure they are over 
16 years of age
•  Completing disclosure and barring 
service checks for specific roles to 
enable us to make safer recruitment 
decisions 
• Making sure that an employment 
contract is in place before the 
commencement of employment at Drax
We respect our employees’ rights in 
areas such as freedom of association 
and collective bargaining. Overall, 24% 
of the workforce across Drax is covered 
by a collective bargaining agreement. 
For the rest of the workforce, employee 
forums are in place, enabling a two-way 
dialogue between the senior leadership 
team and employees. We maintain healthy 
relationships with our trade union partners 
and attend monthly meetings to discuss 
potential issues (e.g. employment terms 
and conditions, learning and development, 
business change) that may affect 
members. We also undertake annual 
negotiations on pay and conditions of 
employment.
We communicate with employees both 
formally and informally, including through 
posters, leaflets, our intranet, a quarterly 
newsletter, and open forum meetings 
involving members of the senior leadership 
team. Each week, the CEO takes questions 
from across Drax on a wide range of topics 
and we share his responses with the whole 
workforce.
Modern Slavery Statement 2019
Modern Slavery Statement 2019
16
17
Progress in 2019:
• Expanded our approach to wellbeing
• Harmonised the level of core benefit cover across 
Drax i.e. healthcare
• Rolled out unconscious bias training for all managers
• Introduced ways to improve engagement and 
communication with employees
In 2020, we plan to:
• Further expand our approach to physical and 
mental health with the introduction of a Wellbeing 
programme
• Continue to embed our communication and 
engagement channels with employees
Supplier 
Contracts
We’ve incorporated provisions on human rights and 
modern slavery into our Corporate Responsibility 
Statement (CRS), which we seek to include within 
appropriate agreements. 
The CRS expects suppliers to have the relevant policies 
and procedures in place. These should aim to safeguard 
against direct or indirect engagement in activities that 
would constitute an offence under the Modern Slavery 
Act 2015.
Progress in 2019:
• Drafted improved guidance for suppliers, to be 
incorporated into the new Supplier Code of Conduct
In 2020, we plan to:
• Seek approval from the Board for the Supplier Code 
of Conduct
• Publish the Supplier Code of Conduct
“We communicate with employees 
both formally and informally, 
including through posters, 
leaflets, our intranet, a quarterly 
newsletter, and open forum 
meetings involving members of 
the senior leadership team.”
Modern Slavery Statement 2019
Modern Slavery Statement 2019
18
19
Awareness and 
Training 
In 2019, we built on the modern slavery awareness 
and training that we’d previously provided. Our key 
deliverables are set out below.
Progress in 2019:
•  Issued our Corporate Crime policy (including policy 
level detail on modern slavery) as a mandatory read 
to all colleagues, temporary workers and relevant 
consultants (c. 3,000 people) via our Learning 
Management System
• Deployed, as mandatory learning, a third-party 
modern slavery specific eLearning package to all 
managers and ‘at higher risk’ teams (c. 1,000 people) 
via our Learning Management System 
• Provided a modern slavery focused session to 
Procurement colleagues from across Drax. 
 
– The session included a refresher on the 
background to the law, compliance requirements, 
our programme, our ethical concerns and a 
discussion on how to improve the mapping of our 
non-fuel procurement supply chains 
• Continued our Biomass Sustainability Compliance 
team’s programme to promote modern slavery 
awareness when conducting biomass supplier site 
visits and to reinforce our ethical requirements
• Continued to issue our “Doing the right thing” 
eLearning videos (including a specific module on 
modern slavery and due diligence) to all new starters, 
as part of our induction programme
In 2020, we plan to:
•  Assess the effectiveness of our modern slavery 
training through employee focus groups and feed 
this insight into the development of future training 
materials
•  Develop and deploy our own in-house refresher 
eLearning material
• Deploy the Employee Code of Conduct (including 
modern slavery content) as a mandatory read to 
all employees, temporary workers and relevant 
consultants, (including short videos on modern 
slavery and other topics) and embed it within our 
new starter induction process.
•  Deploy the Supplier Code of Conduct (including 
short videos on modern slavery and other topics)
Modern Slavery Statement 2019
Modern Slavery Statement 2019
20
21
“Speak up” 
Culture 
We encourage those working on behalf of Drax to 
challenge unethical behaviour and promote a speak 
up culture. Colleagues can raise concerns with their 
line managers, the Group Business Ethics team, or a 
member of the EBCC. Alternatively, an independently-
operated and confidential speak up hotline and web 
portal is available. This enables employees to raise 
concerns anonymously, should they wish. The service 
forwards any issues raised to the Group Business 
Ethics team, who (in accordance with confidentiality 
preferences) acknowledge, triage and organise 
investigation of the matter. The Group Business Ethics 
team then reports the issue to the EBCC, the Audit 
Committee and, if required, the relevant authorities.
Drax will not seek to punish (or otherwise retaliate 
against) anyone expressing genuine concern. 
No concerns relating to modern slavery were raised 
through our reporting processes in 2019.
Progress in 2019:
• We selected a new third-party speak up service that 
all employees and suppliers can use 
• Appointed a Whistleblowing Officer to oversee speak 
up activities 
•  Commenced quarterly reporting to the EBCC on 
speak up matters
In 2020, we plan to:
•  Implement and communicate our new third-party 
speak up service
• Review and update our Whistleblowing policy, for 
approval by the Board
• Report directly to the Board, instead of the Audit 
Committee, on speak up matters
• Create and deploy a dedicated Whistleblowing 
programme, including an annual risk assessment and 
risk register
• Create and deploy non-retaliation guidance
• Publish our Employee and Supplier Codes of Conduct 
(that reiterate our speak up culture, reporting options 
and details)
Modern Slavery Statement 2019
Modern Slavery Statement 2019
22
23
Working  
together
“We seek to work in partnership with 
others to strengthen our learning 
and approach”
Home Office consultation
In 2019, we responded to the Home Office “Transparency 
in Supply Chains Consultation”. We’re supportive of 
several of their proposals including “mandatory reporting 
areas” and of the new online registry being proposed.
Modern Slavery registries
In 2019, we engaged with the Modern Slavery Registry 
and TISCreport.com to improve the transparency of our 
Modern Slavery Statement reporting.
Sustainable Biomass Program (SBP)
The SBP is a certification system designed for woody 
biomass, mostly in the form of wood pellets and 
wood chips, used in industrial, large-scale energy 
production.
SBP proactively encourages the adoption of standards 
and due diligence processes that include promotion 
of human rights. For suppliers to be approved under 
the certification scheme, they must satisfy multiple 
requirements, including those relating to modern slavery 
due diligence. Further information on the Sustainable 
Biomass Program and it’s independent board can be 
found on the SBP website.
Bettercoal
Drax continued its engagment with Bettercoal in 
2019. Established by a group of major European 
utilities, Bettercoal is a global, not-for-profit initiative 
that promotes the continuous improvement of 
corporate responsibility in the coal supply chain.
The organisation provides greater 
assurance that the coal we procure 
comes from mines that take a 
responsible approach to safeguarding 
workers, communities and their local 
environment. More information on 
Bettercoal can be found on its website.
UN Global Compact
In 2018, we became participants in the 
UN Global Compact (UNGC) – a voluntary 
corporate sustainability initiative that 
encourages businesses worldwide to 
adopt sustainable and socially responsible 
practices. Further information on the UNGC 
can be found on its website.
In addition to our general participation, 
we’re members of both the UNGC’s 
Advisory Group (which governs the UK 
Network) and its Modern Slavery Working 
Group. Such involvement enables us to 
collaborate with, and benchmark our 
activities against, our peers. 
Our Annual Report for financial year end 
2019 will contain the details required for 
our “UNGC Communication on Progress”. 
These include the actions we’ve taken to 
demonstrate our commitment to all 10 of 
the UNGC principles and to the Sustainable 
Development Goals we’re actively 
progressing.
Progress in 2019:
• Participated in all the UNGC Modern 
Slavery Working Group meetings
•  Hosted a UNGC peer Modern Slavery 
Statement review, including three other 
members
In 2020, we plan to:
• Leverage our membership of UNGC 
Modern Slavery Working Group by 
collaborating with another member 
to share learnings on due diligence 
approach for trial fuel volumes
Stakeholder Engagement
Like many businesses, we have a diverse 
group of stakeholders who are affected 
by our global activities. These include 
our shareholders, investors, employees, 
temporary employees, contractors, 
customers, suppliers, communities and 
local authorities, government regulators 
and policymakers, schools and colleges, 
academics, think tanks, non-governmental 
organisations (NGOs), network operators, 
trade and industry associations.
We conduct an ongoing mapping 
exercise to assess how the stakeholder 
landscape is developing and to ensure 
we’re recognising, and responding to, 
the expectations of a broad range of 
stakeholders across our businesses.
COMMUNITIES 
AND LOCAL 
AUTHORITIES
CUSTOMERS
THINK TANKS 
AND ACADEMICS
SUPPLIERS AND 
CONTRACTORS
GOVERNMENT 
AND 
REGULATORS
NON- 
GOVERNMENTAL 
ORGANISATIONS
SHAREHOLDERS 
AND INVESTORS
SCHOOLS
REGULATOR 
AND NETWORK 
BUSINESSES
EMPLOYEES
PROVIDERS  
OF CAPITAL
TRADE AND 
INDUSTRY 
ASSOCIATIONS
Modern Slavery Statement 2019
Modern Slavery Statement 2019
24
25
KPIs and looking ahead
“We’re committed to continual improvement and aim to 
strengthen our compliance programme year on year”
Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)
We have internal modern slavery KPIs that measure the effectiveness of our programme. 
We consult the EBCC on progress and performance.
2019 KPI
Progress
Employee training levels
Building on our training programme from previous 
years, in 2019 all employees, temporary employees 
and relevant consultants received our updated 
Corporate Crime policy as a mandatory read via 
our learning management system. In addition, all 
managers and teams ‘at higher risk’ of encountering 
modern slavery received a mandatory eLearning 
module to complete.
Identify and use opportunities 
for collaboration to verify and 
resolve risk issues
Participation in the UN Global Compact (including 
membership of its Modern Slavery working group) 
continued throughout 2019. 
Steps taken to upskill our  
high-risk suppliers
Our Biomass Sustainability Compliance team has 
continued its programme to promote modern slavery 
awareness when conducting biomass supplier site 
visits and meetings.
Actions taken to strengthen 
our supply chain auditing and 
verification
Continuation of relationships with SBP and 
Bettercoal. We initiated a programme of fuel supplier 
audits, and reviewed an independent audit report 
conducted at the Chinese manufacturing facilities for 
our smart meters.
Investigations undertaken into 
reports of modern slavery and 
remedial actions taken
Not applicable in 2019 due to zero reports.
Maintain up to date due 
diligence information on 
supply chains that are high 
risk for modern slavery
Modern slavery survey enhanced and issued where 
relevant.
Planned initiatives consolidation for 2020
As described throughout this Statement, we’ll explore how to strengthen our activities in 
human rights and modern slavery during 2020. This will include:
Programme element
Initiatives
Governance
•  Strengthen the EBCC agreed protocol by adding a 
detailed remediation plan
Risk assessment
•  Progress the non-fuel supply chain mapping 
project, including the selection and adoption 
of a new tool to assist the mapping process, as 
necessary
•  Reflect any updates to the Global Slavery Index in 
our due diligence platform, as required
Due diligence
•  Evaluate the appropriateness of our approach to 
trial fuel volumes, including benchmarking with 
another UNGC Modern Slavery Working Group 
member
•  Strengthen the human rights content of our  
third-party fuel supplier audits
Policies and procedures
• Seek Board approval for the new Employee Code 
of Conduct
• Publish the Employee Code of Conduct
• Separate the content of our Corporate Crime 
policy into its constituent parts (such as a Human 
Rights policy, in relation to Modern Slavery)
Employment practices
• Further expand our approach to physical and 
mental health with the introduction of a Wellbeing 
programme
• Continue to embed our communication and 
engagement channels with employees
Modern Slavery Statement 2019
Modern Slavery Statement 2019
26
27
Programme element
Initiatives
Supplier contracts
• Seek approval from the Board for the Supplier 
Code of Conduct
• Publish the Supplier Code of Conduct
Training
• Assess the effectiveness of our modern slavery 
training through employee focus groups
•  Develop and deploy our own in-house refresher 
eLearning material
• Deploy the Employee Code of Conduct (including 
modern slavery content) as a mandatory read to 
all employees, temporary workers and relevant 
consultants, (including short videos on modern 
slavery and other topics) and embed it within our 
new starter induction process.
• Deploy the Supplier Code of Conduct (including 
short videos on modern slavery and other topics)
Speak Up culture
• Implement and communicate our new third-party 
speak up service
•  Review and update our Whistleblowing policy
•  Commence reporting to the Board on speak up 
matters
• Create and deploy a dedicated Whistleblowing 
programme
• Create and deploy non-retaliation guidance
Statement approval
We’re committed to doing the right thing. We believe this approach, and the 
measures we’re taking, demonstrate how effectively we’re identifying and 
addressing any modern slavery that could be connected to our business and 
supply chain.
The Drax board of directors has approved this statement for our financial year 
ending 31 December 2019. We’ve completed it according to the requirements 
of section 54, part 6 of the Modern Slavery Act 2015. It applies to all 
companies within the Drax Group that are required to have a Modern Slavery 
Statement, including:
• Drax Biomass Inc.
• Drax Corporate Limited
• Drax Generation Enterprise Limited (former Scottish Power Generation Ltd)
• Drax Group Holdings Limited
• Drax Group plc
• Drax Power Limited
• Drax Smart Generation Holdco Limited
• Drax Smart Sourcing Holdco Limited
• Drax Smart Supply Holdco Limited
• Haven Power Limited
• Opus Energy (Corporate) Limited
• Opus Energy Group Limited
• Opus Energy Limited
• Opus Energy Renewables Limited
• Opus Gas Supply Limited
This statement was signed by:
Dwight Daniel Willard Gardiner  
(known as Will Gardiner)
Chief Executive Officer Drax Group plc
25 February 2020
