Statement of Investment Principles
Drax 2019 Defined Benefit Pension Scheme
November 2022
1. INTRODUCTION
This document constitutes the Statement of Investment Principles (the 'SIP')
required under Section 35 of the Pensions Act 1995 (the 'Act') for Drax 2019
Defined Benefit Pension Scheme (the ‘Scheme’). It describes the investment
policy, guidelines and procedures being pursued by the Trustees of the Scheme.
This SIP has also been prepared to reflect the requirements of The
Occupational Pension Schemes (Investment) Regulations 2005.
In accordance with the Act, the Trustees confirm that, before preparing the SIP, it
has obtained and considered written advice from its appointed investment
advisor, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (“PwC”) and has consulted with Drax
Hydro Limited (the principal sponsor of the Scheme).
The Trustees believe PwC to be qualified by its ability and practical experience
of financial matters and to have appropriate knowledge and experience of the
investment arrangements that the Scheme requires.
The Trustees are responsible for the investment of the Scheme's assets and
arranging the administration of the Scheme. Where the Trustees are required to
make an investment decision, the Trustees first receive and consider advice from
PwC, to ensure that it has fully considered the implications of the decision(s)
being taken.
In accordance with the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (`FSMA'), the
Trustees are responsible for setting a general investment policy, but have
delegated the day-to-day investment of the Scheme's assets to the investment
managers.
The investment managers listed in Appendix A are authorised and regulated by
the Financial Conduct Authority (`FCA') and provide the expertise necessary to
manage the investments of the Scheme.
Declaration
The Trustees confirm that this SIP reflects the investment strategy for the
Scheme. The Trustees acknowledge that it is their responsibility, with guidance
from their investment advisor, to ensure the assets of the Scheme are invested
in accordance with these principles.
Signed ………………………………………………..
Date …………………………...
For and on behalf of the Trustees of the Drax 2019 Defined Benefit Pension Scheme
2. SCHEME GOVERNANCE
The Trustees are responsible for the governance and investment of the Scheme's
assets.
The Trustees will meet at least quarterly with their appointed investment advisor
to review and discuss the operation of the portfolios and policy decisions. The
Trustees will from time to time receive and consider written advice from the
appointed investment advisor between meetings.
The Trustees consider the governance structure set out in this SIP to be
appropriate for the Scheme as it allows the Trustees to make the important
decisions on investment policy, whilst delegating the day-to-day aspects of
investment management to the investment managers as and where
appropriate.
The responsibilities of each of the parties involved in the Scheme's governance
are detailed in Appendix B.
3. INVESTMENT OBJECTIVES
The overall objective of the Trustees is to meet the benefit payments promised to
members as they fall due.
The Trustees and principal sponsor have agreed a number of key long-term
objectives which include:
●
Ensuring that all benefits due to members under the rules of the
Scheme can be paid and that there is clear communication on the
level of security provided by the Company;
●
Achieving the necessary expected return and risk targets;
●
Reaching a fully funded status on a prudent self-sufficiency basis over
the next decade;
●
Ensuring the investment strategy remains appropriate to achieve the
agreed funding objectives within the agreed timescales, with a level
of risk that is acceptable to both the Trustees and Company;
●
Ensuring the suitability of the investments and ESG policies following
the result of each actuarial valuation, investment review, or as
required by legislation, in consultation with the advisers;
●
Maintaining accurate Scheme records and good governance.
The Trustees aim to meet the long-term objectives via the following measures:
●
Ensuring the strategic asset allocation for the Scheme considers the
liability profile and the Statutory Funding Objective;
●
Monitoring the investment managers to ensure that they comply with
the investment guidelines set for them and that there is a reasonable
expectation that they can meet their performance objectives going
forward; and
●
Considering opportunities to either reduce risk or enhance the return
through the implementation of medium-term tactical asset allocation
decisions.
4. INVESTMENT STRATEGY
4.1
Asset Allocation
The Trustees recognise the importance of asset allocation to the overall
investment returns achieved. However, given the approach to managing the
investments, the Trustees also recognise that the asset allocation will change as a
result of a range of factors, which include changes in market conditions which
could result in a decision to alter the allocation to different asset types.
The Scheme’s strategic asset allocation is 70% in gilts and cash to support liability
hedging and EDOS (which is based on a notional of 40% of assets), 15%
allocated to synthetic credit, and 15% to credit opportunities.  Details of the asset
allocation as at the date of this SIP are set out at Appendix C.
The Trustees review the appropriateness of the Scheme’s investment strategy on
an ongoing basis. This review includes consideration of the continued competence
of the fund managers with respect to performance within any guidelines set. The
Trustees will also consult the employer before amending the investment strategy.
4.2
Return Objective
A return on investments is required which, over the long term, is expected to be
consistent with the Trustees’ goal of meeting the Statutory Funding Objective.
The investment strategy has the potential to generate a return of around gilts +
3%.  The Trustees recognise that the investment strategy has the potential to
generate a higher excess return relative to what is required in the long-term to
meet the liabilities of the Scheme, which are discounted by around gilts + 2%.
5. STRATEGY IMPLEMENTATION
The Scheme’s investments are managed by three external investment managers.
The investment managers are Legal & General Investment Management (“Legal
& General”), Schroders Investment Management (“Schroders”) and Acer Tree
Investment Management (“Acer Tree”). More details are set out in Appendix B.
5.1
Mandates and Performance Targets
The Trustees have received advice on the appropriateness of the investment
managers, benchmark and risk tolerances from the investment advisor and
believe the investments to be suitable to meet the Scheme's investment
objectives.
5.2
Suitability
The Trustees have taken advice from the Scheme's investment advisor to ensure
that the assets held by the Scheme and the proposed strategy is suitable given
its liability profile, the Trustees’ objectives, regulatory guidance and specifications
in the Trust Deed.
6. MONITORING
6.1
Investment Management
Trustees:
The Trustees will monitor the performance of the investment managers against
the agreed benchmarks.
The Trustees, in conjunction with advice from their investment advisor, will
regularly review the activities of the investment managers to ensure they
continue to perform in a competent manner and have the appropriate knowledge
and experience to manage the assets of the Scheme.
Investment Advisor:
The Trustees have appointed PwC to provide periodic reporting on the
performance of the Scheme’s assets, and any developments with the underlying
investment managers which could have an adverse impact on future returns
and other ongoing strategy and implementation advice as is required.
Investment Managers:
Relationship with investment managers
The Trustees have investment management agreements in place with the
investment managers, which set out the contractual relationship between the
parties and govern key aspects, such as how the Trustees remunerate the
investment managers, how the Trustees monitor the performance of the
investment managers, the inception of the arrangements with the investment
managers, and exit terms.
Incentivising investment managers
The Trustees will monitor the performance of the Scheme’s investment
managers against their agreed objectives, ESG policies and the financial
requirements of the Scheme as a whole. The Trustees regularly review the
activities of the investment managers and assess their ability to:
●
Perform their functions competently
●
Have appropriate knowledge and experience to manage the assets of
the Scheme
●
Have considered the need for diversification and sufficient liquidity
●
Have considered the suitability of each investment according to their
stated objectives (including ESG)
Where an investment manager consistently fails to meet benchmark
performance and shows lack of alignment with the Scheme’s objectives, the
Trustees may consider ending their relationship with the investment managers.
This, along with the fees paid to investment managers, forms the incentivisation
to managers to meet the requirements of the investment mandates.
Conflicts of interest
It is the responsibility of the investment managers to report internal conflicts of
interest. Managers may for example separate their debt and equity teams and
constrain themselves not to buy securities of their firm. However, there may be
circumstances where the managers cannot fully align their strategy and
decisions to the (potentially conflicting) policies of all their pooled fund investors.
Assessing medium to long-term performance of investments
The Trustees monitor how the investment managers make decisions based on
the medium to long-term financial and non-financial performance of investee
companies. Where the Trustees have concerns they will raise this with the
investment managers.
Monitoring performance and remuneration
The Trustees monitor the performance of their investment managers on a
quarterly basis.
When assessing the performance of the investment managers, the Trustees
consider:
●
The investment managers’ financial performance against stated
benchmarks and the rest of the market, both in terms of individual
performance and their wider role in helping the Scheme meet its
long-term objectives.
●
Qualitative factors such as the service provided by the investment
managers, including the quality of reporting.
Where the Trustees believe that an investment manager has performed poorly
for a material period, they will carry out a formal review and look to replace the
manager where necessary.
Monitoring portfolio turnover and costs
The Trustees will ensure that fees paid to the investment managers are
consistent with the levels typically available in the industry and the nature of
services provided.
The Trustees recognise that portfolio turnover and associated transaction costs
are a necessary part of investment management and that the impact of portfolio
turnover costs is reflected in performance figures provided by the investment
managers.
The Trustees do not believe in setting a portfolio turnover target – being the
frequency with which assets are expected to be bought and sold – because they
believe that the investment managers have sufficient expertise to make
judgement on the appropriate portfolio turnover. Some portfolio turnover is also
inevitable as part of rebalancing processes in say index-tracking funds within
actively managed mandates.
The Trustees monitor the costs incurred by the investment managers in buying
and selling investments. The investment managers incorporate portfolio
turnover and resulting transaction costs as appropriate in their reporting.
Duration of arrangements with Investment Managers
The duration of the Trustees’ arrangements with investment managers will vary
depending on the investment strategy and asset allocation of the relevant
portfolio.
Appendix C provides further information on the arrangements with the
investment managers. The investment fees are based on a fixed annual
management charge based on the size of the assets managed unless stated.
For Schroders, fees are based on notional exposures and for Acer Tree there is
also an incentive fee.
The investment managers will:
●
Select securities and undertake transactions in specific investments
within each asset class to achieve the stated objective.
●
Provide the Trustees with sufficient information periodically to
facilitate the review of its activities, including:
○
A report of the strategy followed during the quarter.
○
The rationale behind past and future strategy.
○
A full valuation of the assets and performance summary
○
A transaction report and cash reconciliation.
○
How ESG factors have been incorporated into investment
decisions i.e. evidence the managers are adhering to their
stated ESG policies.
●
Informing the Trustees immediately of:
○
Any changes to the management of the underlying
investment strategy.
○
Any serious breach of internal operation procedures.
○
Any material change in the knowledge and experience of
those involved in managing the Scheme’s investments,
including changes to key investment personnel.
○
Any breach of investment restrictions agreed within the stated
client service agreement or fund prospectus.
6.2
Statement of Investment Principles (SIP)
The Trustees will review this SIP on a regular basis or following any changes to
the investment strategy and modify it after consultation with the investment
advisor and the principal sponsor. There will be no obligation to change this SIP
or any advisor relationship as part of such a regular review.
Following any changes to the investment strategy this SIP will require updating to
reflect the revised investment strategy.
6.3
Trustees
The Trustees maintain a record of all decisions taken, together with the rationale
in each case.
7. RISKS
The Trustees recognise that there are a number of risks involved with the current
investment strategy.
The Trustees recognise that the following are some of the risks involved in the
investment of assets of the Scheme:
Cashflow risk
The risk of a shortfall of liquid assets relative to the immediate liabilities.
The Trustees and its advisor will manage the Scheme's cash flows, taking
into account the timing of future payments.
Financial mismatching risk
The risk of a significant difference in the sensitivity of asset and liability values
to changes in financial factors, in particular long-term inflation expectations and
long-term interest rates. The Trustees will mitigate these risks by monitoring the
key characteristics and setting appropriate hedging strategies.
Demographic risk
Demographic factors include the uncertainty surrounding mortality projections
such as future improvements in mortality experience. The Trustees recognise that
there is currently no readily-tradable instrument to hedge this type of risk and that
this risk may not be fully mitigated. The Trustees will measure liabilities using
mortality assumptions recommended by the Scheme Actuary.
Manager risk
The failure by the investment managers to achieve the rate of investment return
assumed by the Trustees. This issue has been considered by the Trustees on the
initial appointment of the investment managers and thereafter will be considered
as part of the investment review procedures the Trustees put in place.
Concentration risk
The risk that the performance of any single asset class or single investment that
constituted a significant proportion of the assets would disproportionately
influence the Trustees’ ability to meet the objectives. The Trustees in due course
will modify their investment strategy to seek the outperformance required to meet
future liability payments, and will, therefore, look to diversify the investment
strategy.
Transition risk
The risk of incurring inappropriate costs in relation to the transition of assets. The
Trustees will mitigate this risk by using its Investment Advisor to help it implement
transitions of assets effectively and efficiently.
Custody risk
The Scheme’s assets are invested in a combination of pooled funds, with limited
control or oversight of the custody arrangements for the underlying investment,
and segregated mandates.  The Trustees expect the investment managers to
monitor the custody arrangements for the Scheme’s assets. From time to time,
the Trustees will seek confirmation from the investment managers that they are
undertaking an appropriate level of monitoring of the custodial arrangement.
ESG risk
Investment managers are expected to manage portfolios that adhere to stated
policies concerning the suitability of any investments based on a consideration of
ESG factors. The Trustees monitor manager adherence to these stated policies
to ensure they remain aligned with those of the pension scheme.
Credit risk
The possibility of default of a counterparty in meeting its obligations. The
Trustees have considered this risk when determining the appropriate allocation to
credit and how the allocation should be managed by the appointed investment
managers.
Systemic risk
The possibility of an interlinked failure by a number of companies or
organisations that sponsor pension schemes in particular sectors or industries.
This also includes consideration of the overlap of risk between the investments
held and the exposure to scheme deficits, as the failure of investments may also
coincide with increasing liabilities to the Scheme.
The Trustees will seek to mitigate this risk by limiting its exposure to investments
with high credit risk. In addition, the asset allocation is set so as to ensure a low
level of correlation between the Scheme's assets relative to its liabilities and that
of a typical UK defined benefit pension scheme.
Derivative risk
Where derivatives are used by the Scheme’s investment managers, the Scheme
will have additional risk associated with the counterparty to the derivative
contract(s). The Trustees will look to the investment managers to confirm that
appropriate measures are being taken to manage the associated risks.
Currency risk
The investment managers may use derivatives whose payout is in an overseas
currency. In this case the maturity value of those derivatives may be affected by
currency movements. The Trustees will look to the investment managers to
confirm that appropriate measures are being taken to manage the associated
risks.
Basis risk
Swaptions are only possible on long-term interest rates (swap rates) that are
different (but correlated) to the liability basis (which is based on long-term gilt
yields). This may lead to some mismatch between the swaptions and the
liabilities. The Trustees will look to the investment managers to confirm that
appropriate measures are being taken to manage the associated risks.
Liability approximations
Approximations may be made in modelling the liabilities which may lead to a
mismatch in performance between the swaptions and the liabilities. The Trustees
will look to the investment managers to confirm that appropriate measures are
being taken to manage the associated risks.
The Trustees will keep these risks under regular review.
8. ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE CONSIDERATIONS
The Trustees take into account financially material considerations, including those
arising from Environmental, Social and Governance (‘ESG’) factors, through the
selection and ongoing monitoring of the investment managers employed to
manage Scheme assets.
The Trustees have delegated overall stewardship of the Scheme’s underlying
investments to the investment managers, including the exercise of the rights
(including voting rights) attaching to the Scheme’s investments and
engagement with investee companies on their performance, strategy, capital
structure, management of actual or potential conflicts of interest, and social,
environmental and corporate governance risks. The Trustees may also as part
of the asset allocation process, select investment managers to invest
specifically in corporate debt or equity, or give diversified mandates where
managers are able to invest in both debt and equity or investee companies.
The Trustees will review the managers’ stewardship policies and voting
behaviours periodically to check that they are consistent with delivering an
appropriate level of long term return for the Scheme.
These arrangements are periodically reviewed and the ESG activities of the
managers are considered where the Trustees see fit. The Trustees, with help
from their investment advisor, will seek to engage with the managers relating to
their ESG policies and approach.
Where the Trustees do not believe a manager’s approach to ESG matters is
consistent with their goals to deliver an appropriate level of long-term returns
for the Scheme and the manager has failed to respond to efforts to engage
them, the Trustees may seek to switch the manager with a suitable
replacement.
Currently the Trustees do not take into account non-financial matters such as
member views. However, the Trustees may take such matters into account
where they believe it would be prudent to do so. Where the Trustees do take
into account non-financial matters, they will inform the Scheme’s employer of
their decision to do so, the nature of the non-financial matters taken into
account and provide any other information which they feel is appropriate in
respect of such a decision.
9. OTHER MATTERS
9.1
Statutory Funding Objective
The Trustees will obtain and consider proper advice on the question of whether
the investments and investment strategy are satisfactory having regard to both
the investment objectives and the requirements to meet the Statutory Funding
Objective. The funding position is reviewed periodically by the Scheme Actuary,
with a full actuarial valuation at least every three years.
The Trustees will consider with the investment advisor and the Scheme Actuary
whether the results of these actuarial valuations suggest that any change to
investment strategy is necessary to ensure continued compliance with the
Statutory Funding Objective.
9.2
Corporate Governance
The Scheme's investments are implemented via a combination of pooled
investment funds, in which the Scheme's investments are pooled with those of
other investors, and segregated mandates.
Direct control of the process of engaging with the companies that issue these
securities, whether for corporate governance purposes, social, ethical or
environmental factors, is delegated to the investment manager of each pooled
investment fund. As such, the Trustees do not have a formal corporate
governance policy. However, the extent to which these factors are taken into
account in the selection, retention and realisation of investments is considered
by the Trustees and their investment advisor as part of the process of selecting
investment managers and specific funds in which to invest.
9.3
Realisation of Assets
The majority of assets are held in a combination of pooled funds and
segregated mandates, which can be realised easily if the Trustees so requires.
The holdings in the Acer Tree Credit Opportunities Fund are less liquid and are
subject to an initial 12 month lock up period and are then dealt quarterly.
Where it is necessary to make payments out from the Scheme, in the first
instance payments will be taken from any residual cash holding within the
portfolio. Where there is insufficient residual cash, cash will be raised by the
sale of investments of the Scheme. The policy for meeting cash realisation will
be reviewed on a regular basis by the Trustees.
9.4
Custody
Details of the custodians used by the investment managers who provide
services to the Scheme are set out in the agreement between the investment
managers and the Trustees.
9.5
Conflicts of Interest
The Trustees will ensure that any conflicts of interest are managed at all times
in the best interests of the Scheme.
APPENDIX A – DETAILS OF SCHEME ADVISORS
Scheme Actuary:
Aon
Investment Advisor:
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (“PwC”)
Investment Managers:
Legal & General Investment Management (“LGIM”)
Schroders Investment Management (“Schroders”)
Acer Tree Investment Management (“Acer Tree”)
APPENDIX B – RESPONSIBILITIES OF EACH PARTY INVOLVED IN THE SCHEME
Investment Advisor
The investment advisor will be responsible for, amongst other things:
●
Monitoring the performance of the investment managers relative to
their respective benchmarks and targets as well as the asset mix
versus the agreed asset allocation;
●
Reporting to the Trustees on the performance of the investment
managers and the Scheme as a whole, highlighting any developments
within each organisation that could impact future performance;
●
Undertaking reviews of the Scheme’s investment arrangements
including review of the asset allocation policy, ESG policy, the current
investment managers, and advice on the selection of new managers,
as appropriate.
●
Assisting the Trustees with the annual review and update of this SIP;
●
Periodically reviewing the overall investment strategy to ensure that it
remains appropriate to meet the Scheme’s long term funding objective;
●
Keeping the Trustees notified of any developments within investment
markets or legislation that may be of interest/relevance to the Scheme.
Scheme Actuary
The Scheme Actuary will be responsible for, amongst other things:
●
Performing the triennial (or more frequently as required) valuations and
advising on the appropriate contribution levels.
●
Commenting on the appropriateness of the investment strategy relative
to the liabilities of the Scheme at the triennial valuation.
●
Advising the Trustees and the investment advisor of any changes to
contribution levels and funding level.
●
Proper accounting, preparation of the annual report, administration of
the annual audit and other financial reporting as required.
APPENDIX C – INVESTMENT STRATEGY ASSET ALLOCATION
The strategic asset allocation of the Scheme is set out in the table below:
Asset Class
Investment
Manager
Fund / Strategy
Target
Allocation (%)
Benchmark
Synthetic
credit
LGIM
Synthetic
Leveraged Credit
Fund
15
Markit 10Y CDX
& iTraxx GBP
Hedged
Swaps, gilts
and cash
Schroders
Liability Hedging
and collateral for
EDOS
70
Custom
benchmark
Structured
equity
Schroders
Equity Derivative
Overlay Strategy
(“EDOS”)
40 (notional
exposure)
Custom
benchmark
Credit
Acer Tree
Credit Opportunities
Fund
15
Custom
benchmark
Liability hedging strategy
The objective of the liability hedging strategy is to protect the Scheme against
changes in long-term interest rates and inflation.
The target objective for the interest rate hedge is to hedge 100% of the
liabilities on the Technical Provisions basis. The inflation hedge is a forward
starting inflation hedging strategy, with 100% of the inflation exposure being
hedged at tenors beyond five years. This accounts for c.70% of the Scheme’s
liability inflation risk whilst tenors under five years are kept under review.
Permitted investments of gilts, interest rate swaps, inflation swaps, total return
swaps (underlying is gilts), asset swaps (underlying is gilts) are used in the
liability hedge.
Synthetic credit strategy
The purpose of the strategy is to gain leveraged exposure to investment grade
credit spreads.
The Fund has a leverage of c.400% and thus requires a rebalancing fund in
place to maintain the leverage through distributing or calling additional capital
to/from the rebalancing fund. The LGIM 0-5 year Gilts Index Fund is used for
rebalancing purposes.
Credit opportunities
The purpose of the credit opportunities strategy is to generate a net return of
10% to 14% p.a. by investing primarily in the European sub-investment grade
markets.
Equity Derivative Overlay Strategy
The purpose of the strategy is to generate additional targeted returns with
defined payoffs related to the equity market but without material exposure to
equity market volatility. The notional amount of the investment is £18.75 million,
c.40% of the Scheme’s total assets. The investment was made in May 2022.
