A ROADMAP FOR THE WORLD’S FIRST 
ZERO CARBON INDUSTRIAL CLUSTER:
PROTECTING JOBS, FIGHTING CLIMATE 
CHANGE, COMPETING ON THE WORLD STAGE
CAPTURE 
FOR GROWTH
A report from the Zero Carbon Humber Partnership
Drax Group, Equinor and National Grid Ventures
3          Capture for Growth – Creating the world’s first zero carbon industrial cluster
FOREWORD 
4-5
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
6-8
CHAPTER ONE: THE INDUSTRIAL CHALLENGE OF CLIMATE CHANGE 
9-15
 
1.1 
UK INDUSTRY IS IN DECLINE 
11-13
 
1.2  THE HUMBER - THE UK’S LARGEST INDUSTRIAL REGION 
13-14
 
1.3  THE COST OF FAILING TO DECARBONISE 
14-15
CHAPTER TWO: CARBON CAPTURE USAGE AND STORAGE TECHNOLOGIES  (CCUS) CAN  
DECARBONISE INDUSTRY 
16-20
 
2.1   CCUS (CARBON CAPTURE, USAGE AND STORAGE) IS A CRITICAL PART OF  
CREATING A FUTURE FOR UK INDUSTRY 
17
 
2.2  BIOENERGY WITH CCUS CREATES THE OPPORTUNITY TO REMOVE  
CARBON FROM THE ATMOSPHERE  
18
 
2.3   HYDROGEN CAN HELP DECARBONISE POWER, INDUSTRY,  
HOMES, BUSINESSES  AND TRANSPORT 
18-20
CHAPTER THREE: THE UK IS COMPETING TO BE A GLOBAL LEADER IN  
INDUSTRIAL DECARBONISATION  
 21-26
 
3.1 NORWAY: LOOKING TO THE NORTHERN LIGHTS  
23
 
3.2 THE NETHERLANDS: CCUS AND HYDROGEN  
24
 
3.3  THE UNITED STATES (1): CARBON CAPTURE SECURES BI-PARTISAN BACKING  
25
 
3.4 THE UNITED STATES (2): CCUS DRIVING TECH INNOVATION IN TEXAS 
25-26
CHAPTER FOUR: CREATING A ZERO CARBON HUMBER 
27-34
 
4.1  OUR MISSION 
28
 
4.2 OUR PLAN 
29
 
4.3 THE HUMBER AS A CATALYST FOR WIDER DECARBONISATION 
30-31
 
4.4 THE BENEFITS OF A ZERO CARBON HUMBER 
32-34
CONCLUSION 
35
GLOSSARY OF TERMS 
36
REFERENCES   
37-38
CONTENTS
FOREWORD
The UK is a leader in the global  
effort to tackle climate change. 
It has shown the rest of the 
world that protecting the 
environment and creating 
economic growth can go  
hand in hand.
The evidence is visible across the UK 
economy. As businesses have stepped up to 
the challenge, UK emissions have fallen by 
over 40% since 1990, while GDP has grown 
by two thirds. Clean growth is at the heart of 
this success story. Almost £100bn has been 
invested in renewables in the UK over the past 
decade, creating and sustaining hundreds of 
thousands of jobs.
Now the UK is the first major economy to 
establish in law that we will achieve net zero 
carbon emissions by 2050. This creates a 
significant opportunity to put the UK at the 
leading edge of innovation to meet its climate 
change commitments.
The Humber and the surrounding region is 
uniquely placed to lead this transition. The 
region is home to Britain’s biggest industrial 
economy employing 55,000 people. It has a 
rich heritage of industry, skills and trade. With 
the right support, the Humber can re-take 
its place on the world stage as a major global 
centre of industry and innovation. 
This can only happen if we act now. Other 
regions around the world are planning and 
investing in low carbon infrastructure. By 
creating the conditions to become global 
leaders in clean industry they are seeking to 
win global investment and preserve and create 
new jobs. If nothing changes, the Humber – and 
UK as a whole – will lose more major industries 
putting jobs, skills and opportunities at risk, 
today and for future generations.
In 2019, the Zero Carbon Humber partnership 
was established by a group of leading energy 
businesses and organisations committed to 
transforming the region into the world’s first 
‘net zero’ carbon industrial cluster by 2040. 
This report sets out a roadmap for achieving 
this through the use of carbon capture and 
storage technology and hydrogen.
These ground-breaking technologies would 
enable industry to grow in the Humber while 
helping to meet the UK’s ambitious climate 
targets. It would also enable us to produce 
low carbon hydrogen at the scale needed to 
decarbonise industry, power, heat, transport 
and maritime across the North of England.
We can help Britain maintain its status as a 
world leader in low carbon technologies and 
achieve clean growth - creating new jobs and 
rebalancing the economy in the process.
Several businesses, industry groups and 
representatives from civil society are already 
behind this vision to decarbonise the Humber. 
The case is clear - we need to act now.
4          Capture for Growth – Creating the world’s first zero carbon industrial cluster
 The Humber can 
become the first zero 
carbon industrial 
cluster in the world. 
It can thrive again as 
a British industrial 
powerhouse.”
“
ZERO CARBON HUMBER PARTNERSHIP
Will Gardiner
Chief Executive Officer, Drax Group
Irene Rummelhoff
Executive Vice President, Equinor 
Jon Butterworth
Chief Operating Officer, National Grid 
Ventures
Lord Haskins of Selby
Chair, Humber Local Enterprise Partnership
David Talbot 
Chief Executive Officer, CATCH
5          Capture for Growth – Creating the world’s first zero carbon industrial cluster
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
This report considers how the 
UK can decarbonise its major 
industrial hubs and explains 
why the Humber is the natural 
place for this to start. 
It acknowledges the challenges many heavy 
industries face linked to climate change 
and highlights the technologies that will be 
needed to decarbonise. 
It then examines how the Zero Carbon 
Humber partnership will work with others to 
harness these technologies to decarbonise 
the UK’s largest industrial cluster and act as a 
catalyst for other regions across the North of 
England to thrive into the future. 
The roadmap to the Humber becoming 
carbon neutral would include: 
• Developing a hydrogen demonstrator and 
test facility in the Humber;
• Installing carbon capture technology at Drax 
Power Station to create the world’s fi rst 
carbon negative power station;
•  Building a carbon dioxide (CO2) transport 
and storage system across the region that 
industry can connect to;
• Safely storing CO2 deep under the seabed in 
the Southern North Sea;
• Unlocking a cutting-edge hydrogen economy 
– providing a low carbon fuel to decarbonise 
industry, power, heat, transport and 
maritime across the North of England;
• Creating the conditions for new industries 
which use the CCUS pipeline or low carbon 
hydrogen to develop in the region – creating 
new jobs and opportunities locally and 
across the country.
WHAT A ZERO CARBON INDUSTRIAL CLUSTER COULD LOOK LIKE IN THE HUMBER REGION
6          Capture for Growth – Creating the world’s fi rst zero carbon industrial cluster
WHAT A ZERO CARBON CLUSTER
COULD LOOK LIKE IN THE HUMBER REGION
DRAX POWER 
STATION
INDUSTRY
HYDROGEN
PRODUCTION 
FACILITY
CO2 STORAGE IN 
SOUTHERN NORTH SEA
INDUSTRY
CARBON DIOXIDE (CO2) PIPELINE
HYDROGEN (H2) PIPELINE
NORTH OF
ENGLAND
Chapter One sets out the industrial 
challenge of climate change.
• The UK’s heavy industries have been in 
decline for decades. The journey to a net 
zero carbon economy represents both a 
challenge and an opportunity. 
• The Humber contributes £18bn a year to 
Gross Value Added (GVA). It is home to the 
UK’s largest industrial cluster. It is also the 
UK’s most carbon intensive region.
• If businesses across the Humber fail 
to decarbonise, based on central HM 
Treasury forecasts they could face carbon 
taxes of up to £2.9bn a year by 2040 – 
putting their future at risk.
• Transitioning away from high carbon 
emissions to a more sustainable economy 
would allow the Humber to make a 
signifi cant contribution to the UK meeting 
its climate goals.
Chapter Two highlights the 
technologies that will decarbonise 
industry.
• There is a broad consensus that CCUS and 
hydrogen will play a key role in ensuring the 
UK meets its climate goals. The Committee 
on Climate Change (CCC) says that CCUS is a 
necessity, not an option, for reaching net 
zero emissions. 
• Bioenergy with carbon capture and storage 
(BECCS) can remove carbon dioxide from 
the atmosphere. The CCC has advised 
government it will play a crucial role 
in offsetting emissions from hard-to-
decarbonise sectors in the future. 
• Hydrogen will have a crucial role to play in 
decarbonising industry, power, heat and 
transport. Carbon capture technology would 
allow hydrogen to be produced at scale from 
natural gas with a low carbon footprint.
ZERO CARBON HUMBER PROJECTS TIMELINE
2025
Hydrogen (H2) demonstrator 
and test facility constructed 
in the Humber
2027
Carbon capture, usage and 
storage (CCUS) technology 
installed on one Drax 
biomass unit
2028-35
CCUS technology installed in all 
Drax biomass units generating 
up to 16 million tonnes of 
negative emissions per year
2028-40
Hydrogen production scaled 
up to provide low carbon fuel 
to multiple end users (heat, 
power, transport, maritime 
and industry)
PHASE ONE: ANCHOR PROJECTS
PHASE TWO: SCALE-UP OF BECCS AND HYDROGEN
ZERO CARBON HUMBER PROJECTS TIMELINE
7          Capture for Growth – Creating the world’s fi rst zero carbon industrial cluster
Chapter Three outlines the global race 
to help industries decarbonise.
• While the UK has been ranked in the top five 
countries for readiness to deploy CCUS, other 
countries are moving ahead with ambitious 
decarbonisation projects and are investing in 
clean infrastructure.
• Norway’s Northern Lights project is aiming to 
develop the world’s first storage facility that 
can receive CO2 from other countries.
• The PORTHOS initiative in the Port of 
Rotterdam would see the establishment 
of a CCUS industrial hub with CO2 stored 
in depleted gas fields offshore. The 
Netherlands is also developing the world’s 
first facility to generate 100% carbon free 
power using hydrogen as fuel.
• North America dominates the CCUS market 
and has the biggest number of large-scale 
CCUS facilities in the world - the majority of 
which are used to support Enhanced  
Oil Recovery.
Chapter Four outlines the Zero Carbon 
Humber project and the benefits it  
will deliver which include:
• Delivering the world’s first net zero carbon 
industrial cluster by 2040.
• Accelerating progress to tackle climate 
change by capturing up to 53MtCO2 a year – 
that’s almost a third of the carbon savings 
which CCS needs to deliver for the UK to 
reach net zero by 2050.
• Helping protect 55,000 jobs, saving 
industrial businesses across the Humber 
£27.5bn in carbon taxes by 2040 and helping 
the region compete for investment and 
export opportunities around the world.
• Extending lives by improving air quality, 
saving £148mn in avoided public health 
costs between 2040 and 2050 by reducing 
industrial emissions across the Humber.
• Acting as a catalyst to accelerate the 
decarbonisation of other parts of the  
North of England.
8          Capture for Growth – Creating the world’s first zero carbon industrial cluster
CHAPTER 1
The UK has set an ambitious target to reduce 
greenhouse gas emissions by at least 100%  
by 2050. In doing so, it has led the world  
to take action to combat catastrophic  
climate change. 
The challenge of meeting this target has  
been acknowledged by government and 
businesses, but the opportunities have not  
been fully explored.
The collective response to climate change 
cannot be one that makes us poorer and more 
divided. Achieving net zero should not be seen 
as a challenge to the way our country runs, but 
as an opportunity to build a more prosperous 
country supported by strong industries that 
sustain highly skilled and well-paid jobs. 
For the UK’s industrial heartlands, the journey 
to net zero represents both an opportunity 
and a threat. Regions that have a long-term 
strategy to decarbonise stand to benefit from 
new jobs and investment. Those who do not risk 
missing out on the benefits of clean growth and 
seeing businesses offshore to low carbon hubs 
overseas.
This report focuses on the opportunity. It 
considers the technologies that can unlock 
a cleaner future for our major industries  and 
outlines an ambitious plan in the Humber which 
will transform the fortunes of the region, set the 
foundations for other industrial clusters to build 
on and make a major contribution to the UK’s 
2050 net zero target. 
This ambition already enjoys broad political 
support. Nearly 70% of the British publicii are 
overwhelmingly in support of urgent political 
action to tackle climate change. UK businesses 
also recognise that their success depends 
on how quickly they can transition to green 
technologies.iii
But other countries are also transitioning 
away from high carbon emissions and building 
more sustainable economies. The UK cannot 
be complacent and risk falling behind as other 
countries benefit from the technologies of  
the future.
We have an opportunity to act. There is 
consensus from the public, politicians and 
business that the status quo is unsustainable 
and that a failure to reduce our carbon 
emissions will have catastrophic effects for 
future generations.
CHAPTER 1
THE INDUSTRIAL CHALLENGE OF CLIMATE CHANGE
WHAT IS NET ZERO?  
On 12 June 2019, the UK Government laid 
the draft Climate Change Act 2008 (2050 
Target Amendment) Order 2019i  to amend 
the Climate Change Act 2008 by introducing 
a target for at least a 100% reduction of 
greenhouse gas emissions (compared to 
1990 levels) in the UK by 2050.
This is otherwise known as ‘net zero’.
10          Capture for Growth – Creating the world’s first zero carbon industrial cluster
 
We need to refocus the  
lens through which we 
see net zero. Rather than 
treating it as a trial, we need 
to see it as an opportunity. 
We should seize the chance 
to carve out a niche for 
Britain and exploit our 
existing advantages to 
become a world leader in 
cutting-edge environmental 
technology.”
Sir John Armitt, Chair of the National  
Infrastructure Commission, July 2019.iv
1.1 - UK INDUSTRY  
IS IN DECLINE
The UK’s manufacturing industry is still the 
ninth largest in the world, despite the decline 
since the 1970s when the sector contributed 
25% of GDP. Today it employs 2.7 million people, 
produces 10% of national economic output and 
delivers 45% of UK exports totalling £273bn.v
Manufacturing remains central to the success 
of the UK economy. For every £1mn that the 
manufacturing sector contributes to UK GDP 
itself, a further £1.5mn is supported across the 
wider economy through indirect and induced 
macroeconomic effects.vi
However, UK manufacturing faces several 
challenges, not least increasing international 
competition. Since 2000, manufacturing has 
fallen faster as a proportion of the total UK 
economy than it has in any other developed 
economy.vii
FALLING MANUFACTURING
“
11          Capture for Growth – Creating the world’s first zero carbon industrial cluster
The UK has one of the 
smallest foundation 
industry sectors relative to 
GDP in the Organisation for 
Economic Co-operation  
and Development (OECD).  
Since 2000 its share of 
GDP has shrunk by 43%, 
compared to an average 
decline across the  
OECD of 21%.”
Institute for Public Policy Research, Strong 
Foundation Industries, 2016.viii
Energy intensive industries in particular have 
faced many pressures since the 2008 financial 
crisis. In steel production, the fragility of the 
industry has been brought into focus by the 
situation facing British Steel in Scunthorpe, 
which is increasingly facing stiff international 
competition. Ambitious climate targets 
also mean that, without any investment in 
decarbonisation technology, regions that  
are reliant on heavy industry risk being hit  
the hardest.
This is not a time to 
be too cautious, as UK 
steelmakers face an 
uncertain business 
environment. The 
Government needs to move 
swiftly to secure a bright 
future for the sector while 
addressing the elements 
which undermine  
our competitiveness.” 
Gareth Stace, UK Steel Director General, 2019.ix
This decline of heavy industry matters. 
Without a diverse range of sectors in the 
economy, the UK is at risk of overexposure to 
downturns in certain industries. 
The level of exports – measured in volume or 
value terms – is an indicator of a country’s 
ability to remain globally competitive. 
In the period between May 2018 and May 
2019, exports of goods produced by the 
manufacturing sector in the UK totalled 
£273bn, accounting for 44% of total UK 
exports.x It is clear that industry remains of 
critical importance to UK exports. The UK’s 
global competitiveness and standing as one of 
the world’s largest economies is ultimately at 
risk if the decline continues.
12          Capture for Growth – Creating the world’s first zero carbon industrial cluster
“
“
A continued decline in UK industry will have 
significant implications for highly skilled, well 
paid and secure employment, directly through 
manufacturing companies and indirectly 
through their supply chains. Many jobs in heavy 
industry command higher than average salaries 
and more secure terms and conditions, which 
are increasingly rare as the proportion of  
those in self-employment and/or insecure  
work increases.
Trade unions stand ready 
to do our part. Workers 
who are at the forefront of 
dealing with the challenges 
of climate change must 
have a central voice in plans. 
A quick and successful 
transition will need 
agreements with unions 
to retrain people with jobs 
at risk for new work in low 
carbon industry with good 
pay and conditions.”
Frances O’ Grady, General Secretary, TUC.xi
Any decline in manufacturing also risks 
deepening inequality between the North 
and South of England. The concentration of 
manufacturing industries in the North, opposed 
to service sector industries in the South, means 
that the North is at the mercy of lower levels 
of growth in manufacturing. For example, 
while the manufacturing industries were only 
expected to grow by 1% between 2017 and 2020, 
the communications and professional services 
sector was expected to grow by over 3%.xii A lack 
of investment in manufacturing in the North 
and a decline in the sector would exacerbate 
regional inequality.
1.2 - THE HUMBER - THE 
UK’S LARGEST INDUSTRIAL 
REGION
Energy intensive industries make a significant 
contribution to the UK economy. Together these 
industries and their supply chains are worth 
£52bn, support 600,000 jobsxiii and account for 
4% of the UK’s GVAxiv. They produce products 
that are essential to the UK’s low carbon 
economy; from steel and lightweight composites 
for wind turbines and electric cars, to glass, 
ceramics and advanced insulating materials for 
low-energy housing.xv
The Humber has a rich industrial heritage, 
hosting the steel industry, oil refineries, cement 
manufacturers, petrochemical producers and 
chemical manufacturers. It contributes £18bn 
each year to UK GVA – a quarter of which is 
related to manufacturing – and heavy industry 
provides the mainstay of employment in the 
region with 55,000 working in the manufacturing 
sector alone. 
But UK industry also accounts for around 25% 
of all greenhouse gas emissions in the UK. Two 
thirds of these emissions come from energy 
intensive industries which are often located next 
to each other in clusters.xvi 
In the Humber, the high concentration of heavy 
industry means that 6% of England’s industrial 
and commercial energy use is by businesses in 
the region.xvii The Humber’s industrial cluster 
currently emits more CO2 than any other UK 
cluster (30% more than South Wales, the next 
largest),xviii and is the most energy intensive 
region in the UK.
“
13          Capture for Growth – Creating the world’s first zero carbon industrial cluster
1.3 - THE COST OF FAILING 
TO DECARBONISE
Carbon pricing is designed to encourage 
businesses to reduce carbon emissions and fund 
decarbonisation programmes by taxing fossil 
fuels. It is regarded as one of most effective 
ways for countries to reduce their emissions and 
has been instrumental in phasing Britain’s coal-
fired power stations off the system.xx The UK 
government expects carbon pricing to increase 
significantly over the coming decades. Based 
on current forecasts, industrial businesses 
across the Humber could face a carbon tax bill 
of between £1.4bn and £4.3bn in 2040, if they 
fail to decarbonise.xxi This would inevitably 
place greater pressure on businesses in the 
Humber - putting jobs and supply chains at risk 
and eroding the region’s ability to attract new 
businesses and increasing the risk of carbon 
leakage, where carbon emissions are simply 
moved offshore rather than reduced.
As a result, there is increasing urgency for action 
from both industry and government to safeguard 
these clusters. With the right regulatory 
framework, energy intensive industries could 
start to harness new technologies to ensure 
they have a sustainable and prosperous future, 
help fight climate change and enable them to 
compete on the world stage. Carbon capture 
usage and storage and hydrogen are two 
technologies that will play a crucial role in this 
transition.
xix
THE UK’S LARGEST CLUSTERS BY INDUSTRIAL EMISSIONS ONLY
14          Capture for Growth – Creating the world’s first zero carbon industrial cluster
The Humber is home to 
several power stations and 
two of the UK’s six major oil 
refi neries providing 
The region has over 20+ 
onshore windfarms, 
which alone provide 
power for over 200,000
UK homes and provides 
access to over 400 
offshore wind turbines. It 
currently deploys 1.87GW
of power with a further 
11GW to be commissioned 
by 2030, 85% of the UK’s 
planned development
15          Capture for Growth – Creating the world’s fi rst zero carbon industrial cluster
xxii
16          Capture for Growth – Creating the world’s first zero carbon economy
CHAPTER 2
CHAPTER 2
CARBON CAPTURE USAGE AND STORAGE (CCUS)  
AND HYDROGEN CAN DECARBONISE INDUSTRY
2.1 - CCUS IS A CRITICAL 
PART OF PROTECTING THE 
FUTURE FOR UK INDUSTRY
The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change 
(IPCC) has highlighted that achieving the 
ambitions of the Paris Agreement to limit future 
temperature increases to 1.5 degrees will require 
more than just increased efforts to reduce 
emissions; it will also require the deployment of 
technologies to actually remove carbon from the 
atmosphere.xxiii
CCUS is the process of capturing carbon dioxide 
emissions created by energy and industry, 
which are then either permanently stored or 
used in industry. It prevents CO2 from entering 
the atmosphere and contributing to global 
warming. Possible storage sites include saline 
aquifers or depleted oil and gas reservoirs, 
putting carbon emissions back in the ground.
Deploying CCUS is essential for decarbonising 
existing energy and industrial processes. New 
industries are also expected to emerge which 
will be able to use the captured carbon, creating 
other options to keep it out of the atmosphere. 
No single technology alone can manage the 
adverse effects of climate change. Yet there 
is broad international consensus that CCUS 
technologies will play a critical role in meeting 
the UK’s – and the world’s - energy and climate 
goals. The vital role of CCUS was reaffirmed by 
the Committee on Climate Change (CCC), Net 
Zero: The UK’s contribution to stopping global 
warming report.
CCS is a necessity not an 
option for reaching net 
zero GHG (greenhouse gas) 
emissions”.xxiv
By helping to decarbonise industry, generate  
low carbon power and enable the production  
of hydrogen at scale, CCUS offers significant  
new opportunities for the UK - on a national  
and international scale. It will also help the  
UK become a global leader in tackling  
climate change. 
CCUS can also deliver considerable socio-
economic benefits by helping to create new 
jobs, improve quality of life, reduce energy 
costs for families and businesses, and support 
the economic viability of the UK’s most heavily 
industrial clusters.xxv
For these reasons the momentum behind CCUS 
in the UK is building. In 2018, the Government 
committed to having the first CCUS facility up 
and running by the mid-2020s. The CCC and 
Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy Select 
Committee, a cross-party grouping of MPs, have 
argued we should be developing CCUS in multiple 
industrial clusters across the country.
“
xxvi
17          Capture for Growth – Creating the world’s first zero carbon industrial cluster
2.2 - BIOENERGY WITH 
CCUS CREATES THE 
OPPORTUNITY TO 
REMOVE CARBON FROM 
THE ATMOSPHERE
There are different types of carbon 
capture technologies. 
Bioenergy with carbon capture usage and 
storage (BECCS) is recognised as one of the 
most important because it doesn’t simply 
prevent carbon emissions being produced – it 
also removes carbon from the atmosphere. 
The CCC’s Net Zero report identifi ed BECCS, 
“as one of the required key near-term actions 
that are on a ‘critical path’ towards the UK 
achieving net zero emissions by 2050”.xxvii The 
Government’s Clean Growth Strategy references 
BECCS as one of several greenhouse gas removal 
technologies that could remove emissions from 
the atmosphere and help achieve long term 
decarbonisation.xxviii A joint report by The Royal 
Academy of Engineering and Royal Society has 
estimated that BECCS could enable the UK to 
capture 50 million tonnes of CO2 per year by 
2050 – removing almost half of the emissions 
predicted to remain in the economy.xxix
2.3 - HYDROGEN CAN 
HELP DECARBONISE
POWER, INDUSTRY, 
HOMES, BUSINESSES 
AND TRANSPORT
While the power sector has enjoyed 
signifi cant growth in renewables in recent 
years, decarbonising industry, transport and 
agriculture remains a challenge. 
CO²
DEPLETED
FLUE GAS
CO² + 
SOLVENT
CO² 
 SOLVENT
FLUE GAS
1
2
3
4
6
5
1 Electricity is produced and enters the national grid system
2 Flue gas containing CO2 leaves the power production process. It is cooled and treated before 
entering an absorption tower
3 Inside the absorption tower, a chemical reaction takes place which extracts CO2 from the flue gas. 
CO2 depleted flue gas is released to the atmosphere
4 The solvent containing the CO2 is heated in a re-boiler, which reverses the chemical reaction 
separating the CO2 from the solvent
5 The solvent is then re-circulated back into the carbon capture system
6 The now pure stream of CO2 is transported via pipeline for permanent storage under the southern 
North Sea 
Flue gasses
Solvent
Carbon dioxide (CO2)
KEY
3
POWER STATION
CAPTURING CARBON DIOXIDE (CO2) FROM BIOMASS 
GENERATION AT DRAX POWER STATION
18          Capture for Growth – Creating the world’s fi rst zero carbon industrial cluster
Hydrogen will be part of the solution. It can be 
burned to deliver heat in industrial processes, 
to heat buildings and to fuel heavy transport. It 
can also be used in power and can be stored like 
natural gas.
The CCC states that to reach net zero emissions 
by 2050, the UK will need new hydrogen 
production capacity that is comparable to the 
UK’s current fleet of gas-fired power stations.xxx
However, creating hydrogen from natural gas 
generates carbon emissions. That is why large-
scale production of hydrogen will need to be 
combined with CCUS technology in the future. 
When available, surplus renewable energy 
should also be harnessed to create ‘green’ 
hydrogen, via electrolysis of water, which can 
share the same infrastructure as hydrogen  
from natural gas.
CCUS has the potential to kick start new 
hydrogen technology and help create new 
industries, jobs, and the opportunity to 
decarbonise industry, power, heat, transport 
and maritime across the North of England.
Other countries are also looking at this 
technology. In the International Energy Agency 
(IEA) report, The Future of Hydrogen: Seizing 
Today’s Opportunities, launched at the G20 
meeting in June 2019, energy and environment 
ministers offered several recommendations 
to help governments, companies and other 
stakeholders to scale up hydrogen projects 
around the world.xxxi
Its recommendations included four specific 
areas where immediate action could help lay 
the foundations for the growth of a global clean 
hydrogen industry:
i. Make industrial ports the nerve centres for 
scaling up the use of clean hydrogen;
ii. Build on existing infrastructure, such as 
natural gas pipelines;
iii. Expand the use of hydrogen in transport by 
using it to power cars, trucks and buses that 
run on key routes;
iv. Launch the hydrogen trade’s first 
international shipping routes.xxxii
PROJECTED USE OF HYDROGEN ACROSS UK ECONOMY IN 2050
19          Capture for Growth – Creating the world’s first zero carbon industrial cluster
Hydrogen is today 
enjoying unprecedented 
momentum, driven by 
governments that both 
import and export energy, 
as well as the renewables 
industry, electricity and 
gas utilities, automakers, 
oil and gas companies, 
major technology firms 
and big cities. The world 
should not miss this 
unique chance to make 
hydrogen an important 
part of our clean and 
secure energy future.”
Dr Faith Birol, Executive Director at the IEA.xxxiii
“
20          Capture for Growth – Creating the world’s first zero carbon industrial cluster
CHAPTER 3
CHAPTER 3
THE UK IS COMPETING TO BE A GLOBAL LEADER  
IN INDUSTRIAL DECARBONISATION
Governments around the world are investing in 
clean infrastructure to attract businesses and 
allow them to operate without damaging the 
environment or people’s health – saving money 
and making their operations sustainable over the 
long-term. This includes efforts to prepare to 
deploy CCUS (carbon capture, usage and storage)  
and hydrogen infrastructure.  
In a global assessment of countries which 
are leaders, “in the creation of an enabling 
environment for the commercial deployment of 
CCS”, the Global CCS Institute rated the UK as 
one of the five top scoring nations for “readiness” 
(alongside Australia, Canada, Norway and the 
United States).xxxiv This is attributed to the 
supportive policy frameworks, comprehensive 
regulatory and legal frameworks, and detailed 
storage assessments.  
Although the assessment is encouraging for 
the UK’s goal of reaching net zero emissions by 
2050, the report found that no nation – including 
the top five – has established the necessary 
conditions to drive CCUS deployment at the rate 
required to meet current climate ambitions. 
The global competition for capitalising on 
investment for emissions reductions, jobs and 
the trickle-down economic benefits for regions 
and nations should not, and must not, be taken as 
a given for the UK. 
While the foundations are strong for the UK to 
utilise its strategic comparative advantage in 
industry, other countries such as Norway, the 
Netherlands and the United States are also 
investing significant amounts in developing 
CCUS technology.
The next phase of CCUS calls for a strong 
commitment and action between government, 
industry and business. Other countries are 
preparing to deploy CCUS at scale and the  
UK must not be left behind.
22          Capture for Growth – Creating the world’s first zero carbon industrial cluster
xxxv
3.1 - NORWAY: LOOKING TO 
THE NORTHERN LIGHTS 
In Norway, the Northern Lights, a CCUS project 
initiated by Equinor with partners Shell and  
Total, aims to develop the world’s first storage 
facility capable of receiving CO2 from various 
industrial sources. 
The project consists of a CO2 receiving terminal, 
an offshore pipeline, injection and CO2 storage. 
The first phase of this CO2 project could reach a 
capacity of approximately 1.5 MtCO2 per year.xxxvi
The project will be designed to accommodate 
additional CO2 volumes aiming to stimulate new 
commercial carbon capture projects in Norway, 
Europe and across the world. In this way, the 
project has the potential to be the first storage 
project site in the world receiving CO2 from 
industrial sources in several countries.
An investment decision for the Norwegian full-
scale carbon capture and storage project is 
expected in 2020/2021.
 
The idea is to capture CO2 
from significant emission 
sources on land, transport 
it by ship to a terminal 
northwest of Bergen, 
transport it by pipeline 
out to the North Sea, and 
then inject it 3,000 metres 
beneath the seabed, 
where it will be stored…
This is a solution for many 
industries wanting to reduce 
emissions, but who have no 
way of storing their CO2. This 
will truly be full-scale CCS.”
Sverre Overå, Project Director  
Northern Lights, Equinor.xxxvii
“
23          Capture for Growth – Creating the world’s first zero carbon industrial cluster
3.2  - THE NETHERLANDS: 
CCUS AND HYDROGEN
Port of Rotterdam CCUS Backbone 
Initiative (‘PORTHOS’)
The Netherlands has set clear climate targets. 
By 2030, it plans to have reduced its greenhouse 
emissions by 49% compared to 1990 levels, 
and 95% by 2050.xxxviii The focus for industrial 
decarbonisation centres on plans for CCUS  
from the Port of Rotterdam. 
A consortium comprising of the Port of 
Rotterdam Authority, Nederlandse Gasunie 
(Gasunie) and Energie Beheer Nederland 
(EBN), is developing the business case for 
the deployment of CCUS infrastructure for 
the establishment of an industrial CCUS hub 
connecting industry, via the port, to offshore 
depleted gas fields in the North Sea. 
A feasibility study on the large-scale 
deployment of CCUS in the Port of Rotterdam 
found that CO2 capture, transport and storage 
under the North Sea is technically feasible, and 
a cost-effective measure for radically reducing 
carbon emissions. 
The concept is based on a collective pipeline 
of approximately 33km that runs through 
Rotterdam’s port area. 
The pipeline will serve as a basic infrastructure 
for various industrial parties to connect to 
in order to dispose of CO2 captured at their 
facilities. The business partnership is working 
towards investment decisions in 2020. The 
ambition is to store 2 million tonnes of CO2 per 
year from 2020 to a capacity that will run up to 5 
million tonnes per year by 2030.xxxiv
Hydrogen Conversion at Nuon Magnum 
Power Plant, Eemshaven
A hydrogen conversion project (led by a 
consortium between Nuon, Gasunie and 
Equinor) is currently underway at Nuon Magnum 
power plant to convert one of its units to run 
on hydrogen by 2023.xl If successful, the plant 
would be the world’s first power station to use 
100% hydrogen as a fuel. Equinor is responsible 
for hydrogen production by converting the 
Norwegian natural gas into hydrogen and CO2, 
while Gasunie is engaged in research for the 
transportation and storage of hydrogen at the 
power station.xli
The CO2 released during the hydrogen production 
process is planned to be stored in underground 
facilities off the Norwegian coast. Nuon’s 
long-term vision is to locally produce hydrogen 
through the electrolysis process by splitting 
water into oxygen and hydrogen. The electricity 
required for the electrolysis will be sourced from 
renewable sources.xlii
24          Capture for Growth – Creating the world’s first zero carbon industrial cluster
3.3 - THE UNITED STATES 
(1): CARBON CAPTURE 
SECURES BIPARTISAN 
BACKING 
According to the Global CCS Institute, the  
United States has and continues to dominate the 
CCUS market at the global level.xliii Cross-party 
support secured federal legislation (‘the  
FUTURE Act, 2018’) that paved the way for tax 
credits for capture and storage of emissions.xliv  
At state level, California, Texas, North Dakota 
and Montana are all taking steps to secure 
a policy and regulatory environment that is 
conducive to securing investment. 
The policy landscape goes some way to 
understanding how and why the United States 
hosts the highest number of large-scale  
CCUS facilities in the world. Of the 18 facilities 
operating worldwide, 10 are in the United States; 
where the cumulative carbon capture and 
storage for operational facilities equates to  
150 million tonnes. 
 It is fair to say that the US 
continues to dominate the 
CCS space. And over the 
past year, deployment and 
policy have picked up pace. 
Together, US facilities can 
capture about 25 million 
tonnes per annum – the 
equivalent of taking almost  
5.4 million cars off the road  
for one year.”
The Global Status of CCS report,  
Global CCS Institute, 2018.xlv
3.4 - THE UNITED STATES 
(2): CCUS DRIVING TECH 
INNOVATION IN TEXAS
Net Power, a US energy company, is behind a 
project to produce low-cost electricity from 
natural gas with zero emissions released into  
the atmosphere. 
The company, partly-owned by Exelon 
Generation, has built a $150mn commercial-
scale 50 MWth power plant and test facility 
in Texas. The plant uses an innovative 
technology called ‘The Allam Cycle’ to burn 
fossil fuels with oxygen instead of air to 
generate electricity without emitting any CO2. 
This process allows much of the CO2 released 
during combustion to be re-used.xlvi
If successful, the CO2 produced will create 
a ‘pipeline ready’ product which will be 
permanently sequestered or can be sold for 
use in other industrial purposes. NET Power’s 
aim is the global deployment of 300 MW e-class 
commercial-scale plants beginning as early  
as 2021.
“
25          Capture for Growth – Creating the world’s first zero carbon industrial cluster
COUNTRIES WHERE CARBON CAPTURE AND STORAGE IS UNDER DEVELOPMENT
HIGHEST SCORING COUNTRIES: Australia, Canada, United Kingdom and the United States 
The Global CCS Institute identify the following 
characteristics of the highest indexing nations:
1.  Long-term national commitments to 
addressing climate change;
2.  Decades of investment in CCS;
3.  Established and developing regulatory 
frameworks; and
4.  National storage sites which are 
commercially viable.
KEY
100
0
COUNTRIES WHERE CARBON CAPTURE AND STORAGE IS UNDER DEVELOPMENT
RBON CAPTURE AND STORAGE IS UNDER DEVELOPMENT
RIES: Australia, Canada, United Kingdom and the United States 
identify the following 
ghest indexing nations:
commitments to 
hange;
ent in CCS;
eloping regulatory 
es which are 
COUNTRIES WHERE CARBON CAPTURE AND STORAGE IS UNDER DEVELOPMENT
HIGHEST SCORING COUNTRIES: Australia, Canada, United Kingdom and the United States 
The Global CCS Institute identify the following 
characteristics of the highest indexing nations:
1.  Long-term national commitments to 
addressing climate change;
2.  Decades of investment in CCS;
3.  Established and developing regulatory 
frameworks; and
4.  National storage sites which are 
commercially viable.
26          Capture for Growth – Creating the world’s first zero carbon industrial cluster
xlvii
CHAPTER 4
CHAPTER 4
CREATING A ZERO CARBON HUMBER 
Our plan will:
• Help the UK achieve net zero by 
providing almost a third of the 
carbon savings that CCUS needs to 
deliver by 2050;
• Help protect 55,000 jobs by  
saving industrial businesses  
across the Humber £27.5bn in 
carbon taxes by 2040;
• Extend lives by improving air 
quality across the region, saving 
£148m in avoided public health 
costs between 2040 and 2050;
• Make the Humber region a 
world leader by attracting new 
investment, industries and jobs;
• Support the decarbonisation of 
West Yorkshire, Teesside and the 
wider North of England.
4.1 - OUR MISSION
Established in summer 2019, the Zero Carbon 
Humber partnership shares the same objective: 
to deliver the world’s first net zero carbon 
industrial cluster by 2040.
To achieve this, we will work together to deliver 
a number of pioneering decarbonisation 
projects that will protect jobs, help the region 
compete for investment in clean technologies 
and accelerate progress towards the UK’s 2050 
climate targets. It will also improve air quality 
and the local environment.
This plan has the backing of some of the 
world’s biggest industrial businesses and would 
safeguard the region’s role at the heart of the UK 
economy for decades to come. 
 Demonstrating climate 
action and growing the 
economy go hand in hand in 
building momentum behind 
global action on carbon. The 
UK is a leader in both, cutting 
our emissions by more 
than 40% while growing 
our economy by two thirds, 
but to sustain this track 
record we need to tackle 
emissions from energy 
intensive sectors and bring 
clean growth to our great 
industrial centres.”
Claire Perry, COP26 President and former Energy  
and Clean Growth Minister, 2018.xlviii 
“
28          Capture for Growth – Creating the world’s first zero carbon industrial cluster
4.2 - OUR PLAN
The partnership is based around three 
strategic pillars, which together will  
deliver the world’s first net zero carbon 
industrial cluster.
1.  Unlocking a cutting-edge hydrogen  
economy.
Building a hydrogen demonstrator and test 
facility in the Humber by the mid-2020s 
would create the foundation for unlocking a 
new hydrogen economy in the region.
Over time, this facility could be scaled up 
to produce a low carbon fuel that could be 
used to decarbonise industry, power, heat, 
transport and maritime across the North of 
England.
2. Creating negative emissions at scale.
Installing carbon capture technology on Drax 
Power Station’s biomass units could turn it into 
the world’s first carbon negative power station 
by 2027, generating clean electricity and 
negative emissions at the same time.
Over time, Drax Power Station’s negative 
emissions could help to offset the emissions  
of other industries in the region who fail  
to decarbonise.
3.  Establishing a regional carbon dioxide 
transport and storage network.
With the right infrastructure in place, 
businesses across the region could safely 
transport and store their emissions under the 
Southern North Sea instead of releasing  
them into the atmosphere.
This would help the battle against climate 
change and establish the Humber industrial 
cluster as a world leader, creating new jobs 
and investment opportunities in the region.
29          Capture for Growth – Creating the world’s first zero carbon industrial cluster
4.3 - THE HUMBER AS A CATALYST  
FOR WIDER DECARBONISATION
The Humber is the natural place to deploy 
CCUS and hydrogen technology. It is one of the 
most important industrial economies in the 
country. It is also the most carbon intensive, 
which means that decarbonising the region 
will make a significant contribution to meeting 
the government’s climate targets.
The location of the Humber means it can 
also unlock other decarbonisation projects 
planned in the North of England.
Off the coast of the Humber is a number of 
large geological storage sites – either saline 
aquifers or depleted oil and gas fields – in the 
southern North Sea, that could be used to 
safely store CO2 under the ground for hundreds 
of years. For example, from 2011 to 2015 tens 
of millions of pounds of public and private 
money was spent exploring how carbon 
dioxide could be stored in a saline aquifer 
known as ‘Endurance’.
These storage sites could be used not only to 
store CO2 from the Humber, but also support 
other industrial clusters such as Teesside, 
which is also developing its own CCUS plans. 
Having multiple clusters share the same 
offshore CO2 infrastructure would help 
accelerate construction, produce economies 
of scale and bring down costs for all users.
Meanwhile to the west of the Humber is a 
number of city regions such as York, Leeds and 
Bradford, represented by the West Yorkshire 
Combined Authority. A significant amount of 
work has already been undertaken by Northern 
Gas Networks, through the H21 North of 
England project, to explore how 3.7 million 
UK homes and businesses could switch from 
natural gas to low carbon hydrogen. 
Developing hydrogen production capability 
in the Humber would not only enable the 
decarbonisation of power, heat, industry and 
transport in the Humber itself – it could also 
supply the hydrogen required to make the H21 
project a reality.
30          Capture for Growth – Creating the world’s first zero carbon industrial cluster
Whitemoor
Guardian Glass
Croda
Keadby
British Steel
Cemex
Lindsey Oil Refinery
Brigg
Singleton
Birch
Saltend
Saltend Chemical Park
Perenco
Killingholme
VPI Immingham
Tronox
South Humber
* Industrial emissions figures for the Humber do not include Drax Power Station
Novartis
Humber Refinery
BOC 
Synthomer
Knauf
Gassco
Centrica
Glanford
BOC
Ardagh Glass
POWER STATIONS AND INDUSTRIAL PROCESSES IN THE HUMBER REGION
Overall emissions 
of region: >18.3 
million tonnes of 
carbon dioxide (CO2) 
per year (MtCO2/y)*
Chemical facility
Manufacturing
Reﬁnery
Power station
Illustrative carbon dioxide transport system
KEY
CAPTURED
CARBON DIOXIDE
(CO2)
DRAX
POWER STATIONS AND INDUSTRIAL PROCESSES IN THE HUMBER REGION
CASE STUDY:  
MAKING SALTEND CHEMICALS PARK CCUS-READY 
CASE STUDY:  
DECARBONISING JET FUEL PRODUCTION
 Industrial businesses across the Humber are 
already thinking about CCUS and hydrogen.
Saltend Chemicals Park is home to a cluster 
of world-class chemicals and energy 
businesses, including Air Products, BP,  
Ineos and Nippon Gohsei. The site was 
acquired in 2018 by px group, which have  
since invested several millions to develop  
and extend the park.
The businesses operating on the 370-acre 
site share infrastructure and a range of 
services including feedstocks and utilities. 
As a result, the park is an optimal location for 
the deployment of carbon capture, usage and 
storage technology.
We have already had significant 
interest from prospective tenants 
in our plans to become CCUS 
ready. If industry and government 
could work together to bring 
CCUS technology to Saltend 
Chemicals Park, it would reinforce 
its status as an international 
destination for manufacturing and 
chemical industries and bring new 
businesses into the Humber.”  
Jay Brooks, 
Site Director of Industrial Parks at px group.xlix
Velocys is a sustainable fuels technology 
company and project developer. Supported 
by British Airways and Shell, the company has 
submitted a planning application for Europe’s 
first waste-to-jet fuel plant in Immingham.
The proposed plant will take hundreds of 
thousands of tonnes of household and 
commercial solid “black bag” waste and turn 
it into cleaner burning sustainable aviation 
fuel, reducing net greenhouse gases by 70% 
compared to the fossil fuel equivalent. 
Following a recently announced agreement 
with US oil company Oxy, their US waste-to-
fuels facility will capture CO2 emitted from  
the process and securely store it underground, 
meaning it will produce negative emission fuels.
Henrik Wareborn, Chief Executive of Velocys.I
“
“
We don’t just want to deal with 
waste materials and produce 
cleaner burning fuels – we want 
the process that produces the 
clean fuels to be as sustainable 
as possible as well. Our carbon 
negative solution could be 
replicated at our proposed UK 
facility in Immingham, subject to 
UK Government support for CCUS 
deployment and the availability 
of transportation and storage 
infrastructure in the Humber region.”
31          Capture for Growth – Creating the world’s first zero carbon industrial cluster
4.4 - THE BENEFITS OF A ZERO CARBON HUMBER
Cutting Carbon Emissions
The roadmap outlined by the Zero Carbon 
Humber partnership will make a major 
contribution to cutting carbon emissions in  
the UK’s largest industrial cluster. New research 
commissioned by the Zero Carbon Humber 
Partnership has for the first time identified  
the scale of the emissions reductions that  
it will deliver. 
The analysis by Element EnergyIi is based on:
• The development of new hydrogen production 
facilities in the Humber, starting with a 
hydrogen demonstrator in the 2020s and 
scaling up in subsequent years.
• The installation of CCUS technology on 
all four of Drax Power Station’s biomass 
units, turning it into the world’s first carbon 
negative power station.
• The creation of large-scale CO2 transport and 
storage infrastructure in the Humber, used by 
industrial businesses in the region.
• The widespread use of hydrogen in the region 
in a number of different sectors including 
power, heating, industry and transport. 
The projections show that by 2040 the project 
has the potential to capture up to 44 MtCO2 per 
year. To put that into context, that’s around 15% 
of the UK’s current annual CO2 emissions. 
It’s also 30% of the total CO2 that the 
Committee on Climate Change says needs to be 
removed by CCUS by 2050 if the UK is meet the 
net zero target.
How the emissions stack up
The analysis assumes that between 2027 and 
2035 each of Drax’s biomass units will be fitted 
with CCUS technology. Those four units will 
provide 2.4GWs of clean electricity capacity on 
the system, as well as generating up to 16 million 
tonnes of negative emissions ever year.
It also considers that the availability of 
infrastructure to transport CO2 offshore will 
encourage the decarbonisation of other power 
stations in the region, with at least one gas-fired 
plant fitted with CCUS technology.
32          Capture for Growth – Creating the world’s first zero carbon industrial cluster
CO2 CAPTURE PROFILE IN THE HUMBER - BASELINE CASE
In Element Energy’s analysis at least 10 
industries switch to hydrogen as their main 
fuel supply. But certain industrial sites, due to 
their large emissions outputs and difficulty to 
decarbonise, will require direct capturing of 
emissions by connecting to the CO2 transport 
and storage infrastructure. 
Over 9 MtCO2 from at least four industrial sectors 
will be captured and stored in 2040, based on 
scenarios as follows:
• Decarbonising the cement and lime  
industry in the Yorkshire and Humber region, 
with a total of 0.65 MtCO2 per year being 
captured in 2040.
• CCUS will enable Humber area refineries to 
abate ~3.6 MtCO2 per year annually by 2040.
• Iron and steel sectors from the Humber area 
are decarbonised using CCUS, with 5.2 MtCO2 
per year being captured in 2040.
• Chemicals are manufactured by various 
high-heat processes, including the cracking 
of hydrocarbons, and usually require burning 
fossil fuels. Due to the difficulty of separating 
carbon emissions from other gases in the 
exhaust, CCUS is considered a feasible 
decarbonisation approach.
The Humber industrial sites will be able to 
capture ~13 MtCO2 per year in 2040, representing 
24.5% of the total 44 MtCO2 per year captured 
from the whole area in 2040.
33          Capture for Growth – Creating the world’s first zero carbon industrial cluster
Cost Savings
Carbon taxation has played a key role in the 
decline of fossil fuel power generation and 
the rise of renewables. But the ‘polluter pays’ 
principle has also proved challenging for many 
industries which suffer from low margins and 
volatile energy prices.
Industry accounts for around a quarter of all UK 
greenhouse gas emissions, with more than two 
thirds of these emissions coming from a small 
number of energy intensive industries.
CCUS technology provides a route to curtailing 
carbon emissions and avoiding the cost of 
carbon pricing. There will be billions of pounds 
worth of savings for the firms who utilise the 
transport and storage infrastructure – savings 
which will have major implications for their 
competitiveness in the decades to come.   
Based on HM Treasury’s central forecast for 
future carbon pricing, we can estimate the 
additional cost that businesses in the region 
would be facing without the Zero Carbon 
Humber roadmap. 
By 2040 firms in the region could have saved:
• 
£2.9bn per annum by capturing and storing 
rather than releasing their carbon.
• 
A total of £27.5bn since the infrastructure 
for transporting and storing CO2 came  
into effect. 
That annual figure could reach £4.2bn per year  
by 2050.*
Those cost savings are just a part of the wider 
economic benefits that the project will bring 
to the region. This includes as many as 55,000 
manufacturing jobs secured across sectors from 
cement, steel, refineries and chemicals.
It will also put the region on the global stage and 
open up opportunities for inward investment and 
for exports of green technology. 
Air Quality
The new hydrogen production facility will be 
a catalyst for the growth of a new hydrogen 
economy. A pipeline will transport the carbon 
emissions from the facility, along with those 
from Drax’s biomass units, to be stored  
safely offshore. 
Hydrogen is expected to play an important role 
in decarbonising heat and fueling flexible power 
generation. It could also make a significant 
contribution to improving air quality by shifting 
consumers from transport using higher-
emission fuels to hydrogen and other ultra-low 
emission alternatives.
The uptake of hydrogen mobility, with over 
one million hydrogen vehicles deployed by 
2050, could lead to a reduction in hazardous 
emissions, including nitrogen oxides (NOx) 
and particulate matter (PM) which are linked 
to several long-term medical conditions and 
premature deaths. Their impacts are often 
quantified in terms of social damage costs. 
The analysis by Element Energy found that in 
total £148mn in public health costs could be 
saved between 2040 and 2050, reducing the 
burden on public health services.
It also estimates that by 2050:
• 
4.2 MtCO2 emissions would be avoided  
by the uptake of hydrogen transport in  
the region.
• 
2,100 tonnes of NOx and 11 tonnes of PM 
(estimated as 34% and 3% respectively of 
the region’s 2050 road transport emissions) 
could also be avoided.
 
34          Capture for Growth – Creating the world’s first zero carbon industrial cluster
*Estimates based on combined avoided carbon taxation 
payments for industrial and power sectors in the Humber, 
using central carbon pricing forecast in HM Treasury’s 
Green Book. Figures do not include payments to CO2 
transport and storage operator.
lii
The Government’s 2050 net zero target may seem a 
long way in the future. But if we are to achieve our 
climate goals the time to act is now. 
Decarbonisation doesn’t have to be a choice 
between saving our industries and saving the 
planet. With this plan we can do both.
With the right engagement and support from 
Government we can ensure that the UK’s most 
important industrial region continues to thrive. 
We can safeguard 55,000 manufacturing jobs.  
We can create a new hydrogen-based economy 
that will clean up the vehicles that we drive and the 
air that we breath. We can become a world leader in 
the use of sustainable bioenergy to create negative 
emissions.
The Humber is uniquely placed to seize this 
opportunity to become the first zero carbon 
economy in the world.
It can be a catalyst for other industrial regions too.
And it will help the UK take the lead in exporting  
the green technologies that will be needed around  
the world.
 Zero starts here. 
35          Capture for Growth – Creating the world’s first zero carbon industrial cluster
CONCLUSION
BEIS
Business, Energy and Industry Strategy: The 
UK government department responsible for 
business, industrial strategy, science,  
innovation and energy. 
BECCS
Bioenergy with Carbon Capture and Storage:  
The process of extracting energy from biomass 
and capturing and storing the carbon, removing 
CO2 emissions from the atmosphere. 
CCC
Committee on Climate Change: A non-
departmental public body that advises the UK 
government on emissions targets and reports 
to Parliament on progress made in reducing 
greenhouse gas emissions.
CCUS/CCS*
Carbon Capture Usage and Storage: A pioneering 
technology that can capture up to 90% of the 
carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions produced from 
the use of fuels in electricity generation and 
industrial processes, preventing the carbon 
dioxide from entering the atmosphere. The 
process involves trapping CO2 burnt by fuels, 
transporting it through pipeline infrastructure to 
be stored deep under the sea.
*  Carbon Capture, Usage, and Storage (CCUS) 
and Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS) are used 
almost interchangeably, this report only uses 
CCUS, with exceptions when CCS is used directly 
in the cited sources.
Foundation Industries
The UK’s foundation industries are producers 
of materials such as basic metals, fabricated 
metals, wood, non-metallic minerals and basic 
chemicals used by other manufactures. 
GHG
Greenhouse Gases: Any gas in the atmosphere 
which absorbs and re-emits heat, and thereby 
keeps the planet’s atmosphere warmer than it 
otherwise would be. 
Global CCS Institute
An international think-tank whose mission is to 
accelerate the deployment of carbon capture  
and storage. 
IPCC
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change: 
The United Nations intergovernmental body 
responsible for assessing the science related to 
climate change.
MtCO2e
Metric tonnes of Carbon Dioxide equivalent. 
A metric measurement used to assess the 
contribution of different greenhouse gases to 
global warming.
Net Zero
A target of 100% reduction in greenhouse  
gas emissions. It is referred to as ‘net’ as  
the expectation is that it would be met with  
some remaining sources of emissions which 
would need to be offset by removals of CO2 from 
the atmosphere.
36          Capture for Growth – Creating the world’s first zero carbon industrial cluster
GLOSSARY OF TERMS
i 
https://www.legislation.gov.uk/
ukdsi/2019/9780111187654/pdfs/
ukdsi_9780111187654_en.pdf  
ii 
https://www.theguardian.com/environment/2019/
jun/19/britons-want-faster-action-climate-poll   
iii 
Department for Business, Energy, and Industrial 
Strategy, 2019, ‘BEIS Public Attitudes Tracker: Wave 
29’, March 2019
iv 
https://www.telegraph.co.uk/politics/2019/07/15/
can-put-man-moon-can-get-net-zero/  
v 
MakeUK/Santander, Make UK/Santander analysis 
shows Europe remains dominant market for 
UK goods, UK Manufacturing Facts, 2019/20 - 
https://www.makeuk.org/news-and-events/
News/2019/09/16/Make-UKSantander-analysis-
shows-Europe-remains-dominant-market-for-UK-
goods
vi 
Oxford Economics Group, 2018, The true impact of 
UK manufacturing, April 2018, 
vii 
M Lawrence and A. Stirling, 2016, Strong Foundation 
Industries: How Improving Conditions for Core 
Materials Producers Could Boost UK Manufacturing, 
Institute for Public Policy Research, March 2016
viii 
M Lawrence and A. Stirling, 2016, Strong Foundation 
Industries: How Improving Conditions for Core 
Materials Producers Could Boost UK Manufacturing, 
Institute for Public Policy Research, March 2016
 ix  
https://www.makeuk.org/news-and-events/
news/2019/08/29/clean-steel-fund-announcement
 x 
MakeUK/Santander, Make UK/Santander analysis 
shows Europe remains dominant market for 
UK goods, UK Manufacturing Facts, 2019/20 - 
https://www.makeuk.org/news-and-events/
News/2019/09/16/Make-UKSantander-analysis-
shows-Europe-remains-dominant-market-for-UK-
goods
xi 
https://www.tuc.org.uk/news/trade-unions-will-
help-achieve-just-transition-low-carbon-economy-
says-tuc
xii 
C. French, 2017, ‘UK becoming more geographically 
imbalanced, with North South Divide set to increase 
over the next three years, EY News Release, 11 
December 2017
xiii 
https://www.gov.uk/government/news/100-million-
a-year-boost-for-energy-intensive-industries
xiv 
Environmental Audit Select Committee, Energy 
Intensive Industries, Session 2012-13 - https://
publications.parliament.uk/pa/cm201213/cmselect/
cmenvaud/writev/669/eii02.htm
xv 
http://www.eiug.org.uk/climate-change-policies-
threaten-the-future-of-the-energy-intensive-
sector/ 
xvi 
https://www.gov.uk/government/news/world-first-
carbon-net-zero-hub-of-heavy-industry-to-help-
uk-seize-global-economic-opportunities-of-clean-
growth
xvii 
Carbon Trust, 2018, Study of the Humber Intensive 
Industries Cluster, report, March 2018
xviii 
https://www.humberlep.org/wp-content/
uploads/2019/03/Paper-G-Appendix-1-
Decarbonisation.pdf
xix 
https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/
government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_
data/file/803086/industrial-clusters-mission-
infographic-2019.pdf
xx 
https://www.theguardian.com/environment/2012/
jul/16/carbon-price-tax-cap
xxi 
Element Energy 2019, Net Zero Humber: The 
Impacts of Decarbonising the Yorkshire and 
Humber. A report for Zero Carbon Humber 
Consortium, October 2019
xxii 
https://investhumber.com/
xxiii 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, 2018, 
Global Warming of 1.5°C, report, 8 October 2018
xxiv 
Committee on Climate Change, 2019, Net Zero – 
The UK’s Contribution to stopping global warming, 
report, 2 May 2019
xxv 
Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy 
Committee, 2019, Carbon capture usage and 
storage: third time lucky, House of Commons 
Report, 2 April 2019
xxvi 
https://www.parliament.uk/business/committees/
committees-a-z/commons-select/business-
energy-industrial-strategy/news-parliament-2017/
carbon-capture-report-published-17-19/
37          Capture for Growth – Creating the world’s first zero carbon industrial cluster
REFERENCES
xxvii 
Committee on Climate Change, 2019, Net Zero – 
The UK’s Contribution to stopping global warming, 
report, 2 May 2019
xxviii Department for Business, Energy, and Industrial 
Strategy, 2017, Clean Growth Strategy, An ambitious 
blueprint for Britain’s low carbon future, policy paper, 
12 October 2017
xxix 
Royal Academy of Engineering and The Royal 
Society, 2018, Greenhouse gas removal, report, 
September 2018
xxx 
Committee on Climate Change, 2019, Net Zero – 
The UK’s Contribution to stopping global warming, 
report, 2 May 2019 
xxxi 
International Energy Association, 2019, The Future of 
Hydrogen: Seizing Today’s Opportunities, report, 14 
June 2019
xxxii 
International Energy Association, 2019, The Future of 
Hydrogen: Seizing Today’s Opportunities, report, 14 
June 2019
xxxiii https://www.iea.org/newsroom/news/2019/june/
international-action-can-scale-up-hydrogen-to-
make-it-a-key-part-of-a-clean-and-s.html
xxxiv I. Havercroft and C. Consoli, 2018, Is the World 
Ready for Carbon Capture and Storage, Global CCS 
Institute, 12 November 2018
xxxv 
I. Havercroft and C. Consoli, 2018, Is the World 
Ready for Carbon Capture and Storage, Global CCS 
Institute, 12 November 2018
xxxvi Equinor, 2017, ‘Statoil, Shell and Total enter CO2 
storage partnership’, press release, 2 October 2017
xxxvii https://www.equinor.com/en/magazine/carbon-
capture-and-storage.html xli Rotterdam CCUS, 
2019, Porthos project: CO2 reduction through 
storage beneath the North Sea, February 2019, 
Available from: https://www.rotterdamccus.nl/
wp-content/uploads/2019/07/Brochure-Rotterdam-
CCUS-Porthos-EN-3.pdf
xxxviii Rotterdam CCUS, 2019, Porthos project: CO2 
reduction through storage beneath the North 
Sea, February 2019, Available from: https://www.
rotterdamccus.nl/wp-content/uploads/2019/07/
Brochure-Rotterdam-CCUS-Porthos-EN-3.pdf
xxxix Rotterdam CCUS, 2019, Porthos project: CO2 
reduction through storage beneath the North 
Sea, February 2019, Available from: https://www.
rotterdamccus.nl/wp-content/uploads/2019/07/
Brochure-Rotterdam-CCUS-Porthos-EN-3.pdf
xl 
Equinor, 2017, ‘Evaluating conversion of natural 
gas to hydrogen’, [web], 7 July 2017; NS Energy, 
2017, ‘Nuon Magnum Power Plant’, Available from: 
https://www.nsenergybusiness.com/projects/nuon-
magnum-power-plant/
xli 
NS Energy, 2017, ‘Nuon Magnum Power Plant’, 
Available from: https://www.nsenergybusiness.
com/projects/nuon-magnum-power-plant/ 
 
xlii 
NS Energy, 2017, ‘Nuon Magnum Power Plant’, 
Available from: https://www.nsenergybusiness.
com/projects/nuon-magnum-power-plant/
xliii 
 I . Havercroft and C. Consoli, 2018, Is the World 
Ready for Carbon Capture and Storage, Global CCS 
Institute, 12 November 2018
xliv 
World Coal Association, 2018, Driving CCUS 
Deployment: The pathway to zero emissions from 
coal, 13 November 2018
xlv 
https://www.globalccsinstitute.com/archive/
hub/publications/202108/ccs-readiness-index-
2018global-ccs-institute-2018digital.pdf
xlvi 
https://www.inc.com/kevin-j-ryan/net-power-zero-
emissions-plant-global-warming.html
xlvii 
https://www.globalccsinstitute.com/archive/
hub/publications/202108/ccs-readiness-index-
2018global-ccs-institute-2018digital.pdf
xlviii 
https://www.gov.uk/government/news/world-first-
carbon-net-zero-hub-of-heavy-industry-to-help-
uk-seize-global-economic-opportunities-of-clean-
growth
xlix 
https://www.saltendchemicalspark.com/
I 
https://www.velocys.com/projects/altalto/
Ii 
HM Treasury Green Book supplementary guidance: 
Valuation of energy use and greenhouse gas 
emissions for appraisal. Carbon pricing (traded 
values) taken from Table 3: Carbon prices and 
sensitivities 2010-2100 for appraisal, 2018 £/tCO2e, 
last updated April 2019 - https://www.gov.uk/
government/publications/valuation-of-energy-use-
and-greenhouse-gas-emissions-for-appraisal
Iii 
https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/
valuation-of-energy-use-and-greenhouse-gas-
emissions-for-appraisal
38          Capture for Growth – Creating the world’s first zero carbon industrial cluster
Commissioned by
www.zerocarbonhumber.co.uk
