  REA POSITION PAPER
  GOING NEGATIVE: 
  Policy Proposals for UK Bioenergy 
  with Carbon Capture and Storage (BECCS)  
 
 JUNE 
  2019
  
  
 SUMMARY
Bioenergy paired with Carbon Capture and Storage (BECCS) technologies has 
the potential to play a critical role in meeting the UK’s net zero ambitions, but 
achieving this potential involves immediate action at a number of scales. 
The REA recommends increasing the UK total carbon price to around £50t/
CO2 from 2020 with a clear trajectory to at least 2035 in order to promote rapid 
emission reductions. 
The UK should also explore a mechanism which rewards negative emissions, 
such as tradeable negative emissions allowances under a domestic emissions 
trading scheme. 
Finally, the UK should incentivise the deployment of demonstration projects 
at several scales that prioritise the use of lowest carbon feedstocks whilst 
making BECCS plant eligible for support under existing UK policy, such as the 
Contracts for Difference (CfD) mechanism. 
Samuel Stevenson
Policy Analyst - REA
Report Author
1
1.  BECCS has the potential to play a critical role in meeting the UK’s net zero 
ambitions. According to the Committee on Climate Change (CCC), the UK will require 
Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS) at scale in order to achieve net zero by 2050i. BECCS 
could play an important role in doing this cost-effectively whilst providing wider co-
benefits, with the potential to abate around 51 MtCO2yr1 of the projected 90 - 130 
MtCO2yr-1 residual emissions in 2050 from difficult to decarbonise sectors such as 
agriculture, aviation and industryii, iii. The scale-up of both domestic and international 
sustainable biomass can facilitate this shift with potential economic and environmental 
benefits across the agricultural and forestry sectors, including rural developmentiv. Recent 
modelling suggests that BECCS could reduce annual CO2 emissions in the UK by ~6%, 
whilst also providing low carbon power, heat and additional co-benefitsv. Developing 
CCUS technology, expertise, and transport and storage in the UK brings further economic 
opportunities.
2.  Scaling up and deploying UK BECCS is complex and will require significant 
investment and policy change. Whilst the UK has a strong bioenergy sector, accounting 
for 7.4% of primary energy supply, it does not have an established CCS industryvi. Policy 
will need to shift in order to correctly price carbon, offer long-term support to bioenergy 
and incentivise CCUS technologies, infrastructures and business models, alongside 
negative emissions from BECCS. Scaling up either domestic biomass production or 
imports to match the levels required (51 MtCO2yr-1) demands a coordinated and robust 
approach which ensures rigorous carbon accounting throughout feedstock supply chains. 
Whether international or domestic, supply chains used for BECCS should be the lowest 
carbon option available.
3.  A number of actions can be taken now which utilise the existing policy 
trajectory and expedite BECCS deployment and the delivery of a net zero society. As 
part of a portfolio of renewable energy and clean technology deployment, Greenhouse 
Gas Removal (GGR) strategies and immediate mitigation efforts, we recommend i) 
increasing the UK total carbon price to around £50t/CO2 with a clear trajectory between 
at least 2020 - 2035; ii) creating a mechanism to reward negative emissions (e.g. tradeable 
Negative Emissions Allowances under a UK emissions trading scheme); iii) modifying 
existing UK supportive policy, such as the Contracts for Difference mechanism (CfD) 
to support BECCS at scale; iv) developing BECCS demonstration projects at a number 
of scales that make use of lowest carbon feedstocks; and v) stimulating increased 
research into a variety of potential feedstock genotypes to improve bioenergy yields and 
sustainably meet requisite feedstock demand.
 KEY MESSAGES
  2
  3
  1
  2
What is BECCS?
Bioenergy with Carbon Capture and Storage (BECCS) is a way of capturing and permanently storing 
CO2 released by bioenergy processes. Bioenergy is the energy generated from the conversion of solid, 
liquid and gaseous products derived from renewable organic biomass such as wood, agricultural crops, 
and various kinds of waste. Biomass can be burned directly or processed into biofuels such as ethanol 
and methane. In the case of combustion, as in biomass power, heat or energy from waste, compounds 
are used to separate and capture CO2 from the flue gases. Pre-combustion capture is also possible on 
specially designed plantsvii. In the case of biofuel production, CO2 is captured directly from processes like 
fermentation as an off-gas; whereas in anaerobic digestion CO2 is separated from biogas in the process of 
upgrading it to biomethane.
Figure 1 (above): Diagram showing three BECCS pathways, biogas-CCS, biofuel-CCS and bioelectricity-
CCS © REA 2019viii.  
BECCS features prominently in the climate debate because of its potential to deliver negative emissions 
- removing more CO2 from the atmosphere than is released via the bioenergy process (combustion, 
fermentation or digestion). This is possible because the biomass used as fuel fixes CO2 from the 
atmosphere during growth. When it is then processed this same CO2 is released but rather than being 
returned to the atmosphere, it is captured and permanently stored. Captured carbon may also be used 
as a feedstock in chemical and industrial processes, for example in the manufacture of bio-based carbon 
products such as building materials, and in the production of synthetic transport fuels; hence Carbon 
Capture Usage and Storage, or CCUS.  
Is BECCS a single technology? 
BECCS is not a single technology. Rather, CCUS is compatible across a range of bioenergy configurations 
including: Biofuels (biochemical and thermo-chemical); Anaerobic Digestion (AD); Energy from Waste 
(EfW) and Biomass (heat and power)ix, x, xi. Despite its theoretical versatility, however, BECCS is still firmly in 
the developmental stages with a mixture of small-scale demonstrational projects primarily concentrated 
in CCU and CCS with biofuel production (particularly in the United States)xii, CCU and CCS with EfW 
(Netherlands and Japan)xiii, xiv, and CCS with biomass power (UK)xv.
 ADDRESSING KEY QUESTIONS
3
 Is BECCS necessary to meet climate targets?
Achieving net zero is not possible without a portfolio of GGR strategies, most likely including BECCS at 
between 24 - 51 MtCO2yr-1 xvi. This is because there will be an estimated ‘residual’ of emissions (90 - 130 
MtCO2yr-1) in 2050, even with maximum reduction efforts in all areas, due to those hard to decarbonise 
sectors such as aviation, shipping, and industry that have no, or only very high cost, options to fully 
decarbonise. CCS currently presents the cheapest or only option to decarbonise many industrial 
applicationsxvii. Developing BECCS will capture CO2 and deliver negative emissions which expedite the 
route to net zero whilst also compensating for residual emissions, thereby significantly reducing the 
cost of UK decarbonisation. This being said, pursuing BECCS need not preclude vigorous economy-wide 
mitigation efforts and the rapid deployment of renewable and clean technologies. 
How much will BECCS cost?
The Committee on Climate Change’s ‘Net Zero’ report estimates that the assumed abatement cost for 
BECCS is between £125 - 300/tCO2
1, depending on whether imported or domestic biomass is used 
and the demand for BECCS in other countries as a mitigation technologyxviii. Elsewhere, analyses of UK 
BECCS costs are limited to configurations such as biomass power with CCS, and conclude that it will be 
more expensive overall than its coal- and gas-fired comparators, at between £170 - 204 /MWhxix. In this 
analysis, the biomass cases with a 90% carbon capture efficiency are more expensive because they pay 
the cost of CO2 transport and storage as well as a CO2 emissions charge (despite their use of biogenic 
fuel) which applies to the residual 10% not captured2. They must also pay the price of a more expensive 
feedstock and different load factors (versus a Combined Cycle Gas Turbine, for example). Whilst early 
BECCS configurations are likely to be more expensive than fossil fuel-CCS, cost reductions are expected 
as the supply chains, system and technology efficiencies improvexx. Equally, as the storage and transport 
infrastructure develops, associated costs are expected to fallxxi. 
In addition to the above, neither of the given cost estimates considers the possible value awarded 
to BECCS for generating negative emissions. A future mechanism which appropriately prices carbon 
economy-wide and rewards negative emission will bring down the operational costs of BECCS and drive 
demand in carbon dioxide removals. 
Overall, it is likely that a significant proportion of the cost of BECCS can be managed through well-
designed domestic policy. For example, if the UK were to take the carbon price charged for every tonne 
of fossil CO2 emitted and change this to a payment for every tonne of biogenic CO2 captured, in other 
words from a penalty to an incentive, then the case for biomass with CCS looks very different. Here, 
BECCS cases become competitive at between £53.1 - 112.8 /MWhxxii, 3.
How should UK BECCS be deployed?
To expedite BECCS deployment the UK should initially focus on delivering ‘anchor’ projects in at least 
three CCUS clusters, as recommended by the BEIS Select Committee inquiry into CCUS deploymentxxiii. 
The most suitable technology for this at present is large-scale bioelectricity, either from biomass power 
or EfW. This approach takes advantage of the existing policy trajectory alongside sustainable, mature and 
rigorously audited bioenergy supply chainsxxiv. It also allows the necessary technologies, transport and 
storage infrastructure to develop, laying the groundwork for exploring future BECCS at different scales.
1  CCC assumes that £300/tCO2 estimate becomes global trading price for GGRs, based on the cost of Direct Air Capture and Storage (DACS), rather than 
BECCS. 
2  Biomass power currently does not pay the CO2 emissions charge, so its inclusion here skews the cost comparison. It is unclear why the addition of CCS 
would require biomass to pay this charge in the future.  
3  Whilst this should be explored by Government, it is not a policy proposal of this paper. Rather, it indicates that slightly modifying just one aspect of current 
UK policy can make BECCS considerably more competitive. As noted later on, it is likely that several complimentary policies will be needed to support UK 
BECCS.
  4
Following this, the UK can investigate the potential for small- to medium- scale BECCS - for example, 
the capture of CO2 from AD plants which is then either utilised in the wider bioeconomy (CCU) or 
compressed and transferred for injection in nearby transport and storage infrastructure (CCS). 
How can the sustainability of UK BECCS be ensured?
The sustainability and negative emissions delivered by BECCS will depend on the scale at which it is 
deployedxxv. At the small- to medium-scale, BECCS is likely to be most sustainable when plants are 
dispersed across the UK and supplied with local agricultural, forestry and municipal residues to produce 
heat at high efficienciesxxvi, xxvii. Separately, large-scale BECCS, such as biomass power, is likely to be fuelled 
by sustainably expanding feedstock importsxxviii. This is because both the lifecycle carbon and cost are 
much lower from long-distance haulage via ship or rail than using road transport to supply domestic 
resource at a handful of large-scale plants. This being said, BECCS at any scale should be fuelled using the 
lowest carbon feedstock available4.    
The UK currently has the most stringent biomass sustainability criteria in the world and is therefore 
well placed to manage the development of BECCS. These criteria manage imported biomass resource 
by stipulating a minimum carbon efficiency of 47 - 60% compared to the carbon intensity of European 
biopower (~79g CO2/MJe)xxix. In the context of large-scale bioelectricity projects, initially utilising existing, 
mature and low carbon bioenergy supply chains will ensure the sustainability of BECCS. 
As noted, utilising small-to-medium-scale BECCS may also offer the UK significant economic and 
environmental benefits. A decentralised approach to BECCS using small scale combined heat and 
power (CHP) projects and a distributed supply of sustainable domestic bioenergy crop production has 
the potential to contribute significantly (~20 MtCO2yr-1) to 2050 BECCS targets (50 MtCO2yr-1), whilst 
providing wider environmental benefits and having little impact on food productionxxx. The overall GHG 
emissions from BECCS under such a scenario have been modelled at well below the UK’s Renewables 
Obligation (RO) sustainability threshold (30 - 50g CO2/MJ compared to 79g CO2/MJ) and indicate that, in 
addition to the delivery of negative emissions, air and water quality might also be improvedxxxi. BECCS of 
this kind which utilises sustainable domestic biomass resource has the potential to reduce annual CO2 
emissions by up to ~6%, whilst also providing low carbon power and heatxxxii. 
At all scales there is a clear potential for the sustainable growth of domestic and international bioenergy 
resource which utilises residues, wastes and perennial bioenergy cropsxxxiii. There is also the potential to 
build on existing sustainability criteria, with the European RED II Directive stipulating that large scale 
heat and biomass power plant must demonstrate an 80% emissions reduction against a fossil fuel 
comparator, including land-use change emissions. 
The UK will need to consider its position regarding the implementation of RED II and how this compares 
to its own sustainability criteria. It should also review recommendations made by the CCC, such as 
embedding sustainability criteria into procurement and financing rules to regulate biomass outside of 
support mechanisms like the Contracts for Difference (CfD), Renewable Heat Incentive (RHI) or ROxxxiv. 
In any case, sustainability is imperative to BECCS and so the onus must be on ensuring best possible 
practice and regulation. Negative emissions rely on the efficacy of these measures.  
Does BECCS present an economic opportunity to the UK?
Biomass produced domestically in the UK has the potential to significantly increase the current 
bioenergy market. The CCC has estimated that domestic biomass could contribute between 5-10% of the 
UK’s total energy demand by 2050, and that UK forest cover should increase to between 17-19% by the 
same datexxxv, xxxvi. BECCS development would therefore establish positive climate and economic synergies 
4  Lowest carbon feedstock refers here to supply chain emissions. However, it is possible that in the future it will be desirable to use the highest possible 
carbon feedstocks, so as to maximise carbon sequestration. 
5
between the agricultural, forestry and energy sectors. 
As the BEIS Select Committee concluded in a recent report, CCUS deployment should be prioritised 
because it presents an opportunity to reduce the overall cost of meeting the UK’s emissions reduction 
targetsxxxvii. For the UK, one of the main economic benefits of BECCS will likely be significantly 
lowering the costs of domestic decarbonisation, particularly for the agricultural industry and energy 
sectors5. Mobilising local resources would also stimulate feedstock supply chains to domestic BECCS 
configurations (e.g. AD or CHP) and contribute to the rural economyxxxviii, xxxix. These benefits can be 
explored and better understood through appropriately scaled demonstration projects in the late 2020s. 
For CCUS more broadly, there are significant potential economic opportunities in developing strong UK-
based technological innovation, expertise and storage infrastructure, which could service international 
markets. Additionally, there are synergies between BECCS and the decarbonisation of hard to abate 
sectors, such as transport. CO2 captured from BECCS can be combined with renewable hydrogen via 
electrolysis to produce synthetic fuels, particularly for use in aviation, shipping and heavy haulage. As the 
CCC has noted, at least one of the early CCUS regional clusters should involve the significant production 
of low-carbon hydrogen by 2030 to achieve net zeroxI. BECCS configurations situated at such clusters are 
therefore well placed to facilitate this pathway to decarbonised transport fuels. 
BECCS also has a place in the wider bioeconomy where long-lived products can be made from bio-based 
carbon, such as buildings, civil engineering, as well as structural components of consumer durables. 
Examples of materials include bio-based carbon fibre and bio-based resins as well as engineered wood. 
Finally, the CCC argues that imported biomass alone has the potential to meet around 5% of UK energy 
demand by 2050. As such, international biomass supply chain development, of which the UK is a global 
leader, has the additional co-benefit of exporting proven sustainability criteria that stimulate sustainable 
forestry and economic development in parts of North America, Europe, the Baltics and beyond. The 
importation of international resource also provides investment in domestic port, rail and logistics 
infrastructure. 
How could BECCS be incentivised? 
There are several possible options for incentivising UK BECCS. One approach, explored below, requires 
three significant changes to policy: 
 
i)     a marked increase in, and expansion of the UK carbon price; 
 
ii)    the implementation of a mechanism to reward negative emissions; 
 
iii)   the adaptation of existing supportive UK policy to include BECCS. 
Carbon pricing
The UK currently has a total carbon price of around £42/tCO2, comprised of the European Emissions 
Trading Scheme (EU ETS) element at £24/tCO2 and the domestic Carbon Price Support (CPS) at £18/tCO2
6. 
The domestic element of this total price, which currently only applies to large-scale power generation, 
will need to be significantly increased in order to incentivise the capture and long-term usage or storage 
of carbon7. 
5  It is also the case that CCS costs must be compared against the cost of avoided CO2 (see Roussanaly, S. [2019] ‘Calculating CO2 avoidance costs of Carbon 
Capture and Storage from industry. Carbon Management, 1- 8)
6  Figures correct as at 10.06.19 – CPS currently frozen at 18/tCO2 until 2021. 
7  Any changes should also be accompanied by supportive policies to protect the fuel poor, such as increased funding for energy efficiency.  
  6
The level of increase to the CPS required depends on a number of factors, such as policies augmenting 
the instrument to create a UK total carbon price; and our future participation in the EU ETS8. In any case, 
an economy-wide price on carbon will likely be needed to generate demand for negative emissions 
from BECCS. This would make unabated (without CCS) fossil fuel generation and industrial processes 
uneconomic, thereby driving adaptation into emissions reductions and removals. 
Recent analysis from the Grantham Research Institute on Climate Change and the Environment suggests 
that, in order for the UK to reach net zero by 2050, the UK will need a shadow carbon price9 of around 
£50/tCO2 from 2020 with a range of £40 - 100tCO2e depending on the sector in which it is appliedxIi. The 
authors suggest that in order to incentivise negative emission technologies like BECCS, this price will 
need to reach around £75 in 2030 and £160 per tCO2 in 2050.
A UK ETS
A significantly raised, gradually expanding and progressively increased UK carbon price is a fundamental 
precondition to BECCS, but alone it cannot fund negative emissionsxIii.
To do this, the UK could create a domestic emissions trading scheme (ETS) where actors can purchase 
Negative Emissions Allowances (NEAs). These allowances permit participants to offset unabated 
emissions and remunerate negative emissions technologies, such as BECCS10. The UK’s future relationship 
with the European Union would dictate whether this is also linked to a negative emissions market 
in the EU ETS, although it suggested here that linking the two would be beneficial. A linked market 
would increase liquidity, reduce market volatility and maximise opportunities for negative emissions. In 
addition, it would allow the UK to service international markets, capitalising on its extensive geological 
storage capacity. 
Such a scheme could be administered by the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy 
(BEIS), as is currently the case under EU ETS arrangements. This being said, it should be noted that an EU 
ETS-linked UK ETS with a facility for negative emissions will create additional complexities and therefore 
require a review of the current accounting methodology.
Alternatively, negative emissions could be funded by revenue generated from a gradually increasing, 
economy-wide carbon tax. However, others have noted that this would require a carbon price of 
between £125 - 300t/CO2 in 2050xIiii. As such, it is likely that additional technology support will be 
required for BECCS whilst the carbon price, and therefore the cost of securing negative emissions, 
increases over time. Possible options are explored in the following section.
In any case, it is clear that a specific mechanism will be needed to go beyond ‘positive’ emissions 
reductions and drive negative emissions11. This is because hard to abate sectors such as aviation, 
agriculture and industrial sub-sectors will still have significant residual emissions by 2050, even after the 
implementation of strong domestic policies such as an elevated and expanded carbon pricexIiv. Achieving 
net zero across the UK will therefore require offsetting these emissions with greenhouse gas removals 
from technologies such as BECCS.
8  Government has expressed a preference for an EU ETS-linked UK ETS following its departure from the UK, but a domestic Carbon Emissions Tax has also 
been proposed. 
9  The price used by Government to guide public investment decisions  
10  Other Negative Emission Technologies (NETs) could also be utilised, but are not considered here. 
11  The options outlined above are not mutually exclusive, but Government should explore the best sequence of implementation and how this might interact 
with additional policies.
7
Technology-specific support
A suitable incentive for BECCS depends on both the scale and technological configuration. 
For medium- to large-scale plant generating renewable electricity, such as biomass- or EfW-CCS 
pathways, both the power and negative emissions will require support. For the electricity generation, 
utilising existing UK policy such as the Contracts for Difference (CfD) mechanism could provide funding 
on either an auction or bilateral negotiation basis. The CfD is a Government support mechanism wherein 
a generator of renewable electricity is paid the difference between the ‘strike price’ - a price for electricity 
reflecting the cost of investing in a particular low carbon technology - and the ‘reference price’- a 
measure of the average market price for electricity in the GB marketxIv. At present, bilateral negotiation is 
the means through which nuclear CfDs are awarded; however, given nuclear’s waning capacity, medium- 
and large-scale configurations of bioelectricity-CCS could offer a tenable replacement12. Alternatively, 
bioelectricity-CCS could be included under the CfD on an auction basis either by stipulating a minimum 
capacity of CCS-enabled generation (e.g. 300MW), or by creating a separate CCS technology Pot13. 
Government should consult on whether BECCS configurations under the CfD are rewarded for their 
power generation and negative emissions separately, so as to allow other CCS technologies, like Direct 
Air Capture (DAC), to compete. However, rewarding only the negative emissions from BECCS would 
disregard its wider benefits to the energy system. Beyond the CfD, NEAs awarded under a UK ETS could 
provide support for BECCS, but the scale of this support would depend on the demand for negative 
emissions.  
For small-to-medium plant, such as a distributed network of AD or biomass CHP units with CCS, 
payments could be received in the form of NEAs for the demonstrable capture and storage (or use) of 
CO2. The value of the allowances could be tiered depending on whether the CO2 is stored or used, and 
the carbon benefits afforded. A similar approach is taken in the United States under ‘45Q’, a tax credit 
scheme which remunerates the capture or long-term use of CO2 at $50 and $30/tonne, respectivelyxIvi. 
For the capture and storage of CO2 from UK BECCS, rather than requiring dedicated transport and storage 
infrastructure which extends to smaller plant, NEAs could be awarded at the point of injection into a 
shared network. In addition to rewarding negative emissions, an appropriate mechanism should also be 
available to support the generation of renewable heat from bioenergy14.
For biofuel-CCS configurations or biogas-CCS with a pathway to biomethane in transport, the UK 
should look to its Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Regulations under the European Fuel Quality DirectivexIvii. 
The GHG Regulations set an obligation on fuel suppliers to reduce GHG emissions from their fuel by 
4% in 2019 and 6% in 2020. One GHG credit is awarded for every kilogram of CO2e mitigated under the 
fossil baseline (94.1 gCO2e/MJ). The GHG Regulations are suited to the use of CCS in the production of 
transport fuels because they reward those fuels with the lowest carbon intensities. Unfortunately, the 
GHG Regulations are set to end in 2020. Extending this policy would encourage the application of BECCS 
to reduce the carbon intensity of transport fuels. 
Alternatively, the UK could adapt its Renewable Transport Fuel Obligation (RTFO), which currently places 
an obligation on fuel suppliers to source a proportion of their fuel from renewable sources, by shifting it
12  Government has already made provision under the CfD for bilaterally negotiated CCS contracts, but there are currently no precedents https://assets.pub-
lishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/233004/EMR__Contract_for_Difference__Contract_and_Allocation_Over-
view_Final_28_August.pdf 
13  300 MW is considered the minimum capacity needed for BECCS power generation at a reasonable cost (Brown, 2019 REA Bioenergy Strategy – Phase 2: A 
Vision to 2032 and Beyond). 
14  The need for this would depend on a number of factors, including how high the price of carbon is set. A high carbon price would improve the case for 
biomethane from AD and biomass heat against the comparators of fossil gas and oil, but a low carbon price might require additional support such as an 
obligation on gas suppliers to provide a proportion of green gas or a steadily increasing duty on fossil fuel use in heating. 
  8
it from a volumetric to a GHG basis. However, Government should consult carefully on such a change 
so as to minimise any unintended consequences15. Beyond these options, biofuel-CCS or biogas-CCS 
configurations could also be eligible for NEAs under a UK ETS, providing further support. 
Finally, providing a time-limited classification of BECCS projects as ‘emerging technologies’ would allow 
for the receipt of multiple support options under State Aid regulations, thereby expediting development 
and deployment. 
Incentivising BECCS feedstocks
Although the UK will likely need to mobilise a significant volume of sustainable domestic resource, 
(estimated at 5.7 - 7.3 Mt yr-1 in 2050) imported biomass will still be necessaryxIviii. Incentives for the 
production of local, innovative and sustainable feedstock supplies which do not adversely impact food 
systems or biodiversity could promote the development of BECCS as well as bioenergy more broadly. 
The UK currently imports over one-quarter of its bioenergy feedstock and it is projected that this could 
sustainably increase to meet ~5% of the UK’s energy demand by 2050xIvx. Thus, scaling international 
feedstock supply will be central to securing BECCS at the required scale. 
Increasing domestic production could be achieved through payments for suitable crops on marginal 
land and wastes as well as R&D Tax Credits for research into widening the range of potential feedstocks. 
International feedstock supply can be increased by exporting the UK’s world leading sustainability 
criteria to low-risk areas, thereby expanding the available resource pool. Again, this should be carefully 
managed by embedding the UK’s sustainability criteria into financing and procurement rules. The 
efficacy of UK BECCS depends on the success of these efforts as without a combination of sufficient and 
genuinely sustainable domestic and international resource, the UK cannot achieve the necessary levels of 
either bioenergy or negative emissions to reach net zero by 2050. 
CO2 transport and storage infrastructure
CO2 transport and storage (T&S) infrastructure is a precondition for BECCS. Although such infrastructure 
is not the focus of this paper, it is worth outlining current thinking. 
The UK’s CCUS Action Plan currently states that deployment at scale should only be supported if 
‘sufficient’ cost reductions are achievedI. This language fails to give certainty to investors and therefore 
impedes the development of infrastructure required for BECCS. It also runs counter to the CCC’s view 
that the earlier CO2 infrastructure is deployed at scale, the earlier CCS can be deployed cost effectivelyIi. 
This paper supports the BEIS Select Committee’s recommendation that Government should adopt a 
clear strategy for the scale and timing of CCUS deployment which is consistent with a target of capturing 
10 Mt CO2 per annum in 2030 rising to 20 Mt CO2 per annum in 2035. We add further that this should 
prioritise BECCS to secure maximal negative emissions. Government should also aim to establish BECCS-
enabled T&S infrastructure in at least three storage regions of the UK by the 2020s in order to facilitate 
negative emissions. 
In terms of funding, models for carbon capture should be kept separate from those of transport 
and storageIii, Iiii. Government will consult on funding CO2 T&S infrastructure in 2019, where the REA 
encourages the exploration of a Regulated Asset Base (RAB) model to initially develop BECCS at the UK’s 
proposed industrial clusters. 
The UK should also utilise existing policy through the Industrial Strategy and CCUS Action Plan to establish 
at least one commercial large-scale BECCS project and several smaller demonstration scale BECCS 
projects by the late 2020s. 
15  Changing from a volumetric to GHG basis under the RTFO might encourage high volumes of crop-based biodiesel in the UK which could impact food 
production and have wider environmental impacts.
9
This approach will expedite the technological developments and cost reductions required to roll out 
BECCS more widely, delivering the negative emissions needed to reach net zero. 
Biomass sustainability
   • 
The UK currently has the world’s most stringent sustainability criteria, but will need to 
 
consider its position regarding the implementation of RED II and how this compares to its own 
 
policies. It should also review recommendations made by the CCC, such as embedding 
 
sustainability criteria into procurement and financing rules to regulate biomass outside of 
 
support mechanisms like the CfD, RHI and RO.  
   • 
BECCS should make best use of the lowest carbon feedstocks and existing sustainable supply 
 
chains.
CCUS
   • 
Government should adopt a clear strategy for the scale and timing of CCUS deployment which 
 
is consistent with a target of capturing 10 Mt CO2 per annum in 2030 rising to 20 Mt CO2 per 
 
annum in 2035. Priority should be given to BECCS in order to maximise negative emissions.  
   • 
Government should seek to establish BECCS-enabled transport and storage infrastructure 
 
in at least three cluster regions of the UK by the 2020s to allow all industrial clusters to access  
 
negative emissions. 
   • 
Government should increase low-carbon cluster funding from £170m overall to £100m per 
 
low carbon cluster hub as part of the upcoming Spending Review, with the aim of developing 
 
at least 3 hubs by the mid-2020s. 
   • 
Government has committed to consult on CO2 transport and storage infrastructure in 2019 
 
and should consider within this the most effective model for funding (e.g. Regulated Asset 
 
Base).  
   • 
Government should consult on the option of enabling technologies with CCUS from 2030 as 
 
part of the UK’s CCUS Action Plan. All CO2 point sources above a certain threshold should be 
 
CCUS-enabled by 2030. 
 Carbon pricing
   • 
The UK carbon price should be gradually expanded economy-wide to accurately reflect the 
 
true cost of carbon and promote renewable and clean technologies. Any changes should also 
 
be accompanied by supportive policies to protect the fuel poor, such as increased funding for 
 
energy efficiency.
   • 
A proportion of proceeds from either an emissions trading scheme or economy-wide carbon 
 
tax could be used to fund CCUS projects (including BECCS), expediting development and 
 
deployment whilst remaining near cost-neutral to Treasury.
   • 
Government should increase the current UK total carbon price to around £50t/CO2 from 2020. 
 
A clear trajectory should be given until at least 2035, when prices should be around £80t/CO2.
 
The Government should also consider the creation of an an EU ETS-linked UK ETS with a 
 
facility for negative emissions. Taken together these mechanisms will drastically reduce 
 
domestic emissions, create demand for negative emissions and provide a revenue stream for 
 
negative emissions technologies such as BECCS.
 SUMMARY OF POLICY PROPOSALS
  10
Incentivising BECCS technologies 
   • 
Government should consult on options for incentivising negative emissions from BECCS 
 
configurations. These could include: modifying the CfD to provide support for large-scale 
 
bioelectricity-CCS; using Negative Emission Allowances (NEAs) as part of a UK ETS in order to 
 
reward BECCS across heat and transport; and extending the GHG Regulations to provide 
 
credits for biofuel (including biomethane) production with CCUS. 
   • 
Government should consider additional policies which support the bioenergy technologies 
 
underpinning BECCS (Anaerobic Digestion, Energy from Waste, Biomass Power, Biomass Heat 
 
and Biofuel production).
   • 
Government could include BECCS under the State Aid exemption category for emerging 
 
technologies in order to allow multiple support instruments for its development and 
 
deployment.  
   • 
Government should establish at least one commercial large-scale BECCS project and several 
 
smaller demonstration scale BECCS projects by the late 2020s.
11
i  Committee on Climate Change (2019) ‘Net Zero: The UK’s contribution to stopping global warming’, pg. 23 https://www.theccc.org.uk/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/Net-Zero-The-UKs-contribution-to-stopping-global-warming.pdf 
ii  Committee on Climate Change (2019) ‘Net Zero Technical Report’ pg. 269 https://www.theccc.org.uk/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/Net-
Zero-Technical-report-CCC.pdf 
iii  Committee on Climate Change (2019) ‘Net Zero: The UK’s contribution to stopping global warming’, pg. 171, Figure 5.9 https://www.
theccc.org.uk/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/Net-Zero-The-UKs-contribution-to-stopping-global-warming.pdf
iv  Albanito et al. (2019) ‘Mitigation potential and environmental impact of centralized versus distributed BECCS with domestic biomass 
production in Great Britain’ Global Change Biology Bioenergy https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/gcbb.12630
v  Albanito et al. (2019) ‘Mitigation potential and environmental impact of centralized versus distributed BECCS with domestic biomass 
production in Great Britain’ Global Change Biology Bioenergy https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/gcbb.12630
vi  REA (2019) ‘REA Bioenergy Strategy Phase 1: Bioenergy in the UK - The State of Play’ https://www.r-e-a.net/resources/pdf/347/REA_
Bioenergy_Strategy_-_Phase_1_State_of_Play_Web.pdf 
vii  Rackley, S.A. (2017) Carbon capture from power generation https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/engineering/pre-combustion-capture 
viii  Adapted from Brown, A. and Le Fevure, P. (2017) IEA Technology Roadmap https://www.iea.org/publications/freepublications/
publication/Technology_Roadmap_Delivering_Sustainable_Bioenergy.pdf 
ix  EBTP-ZEP (2014) Bio-CCS – The Way Forward for Europe http://www.etipbioenergy.eu/images/EBTP-ZEP-Report-Bio-CCS-The-Way-
Forward.pdf
x  Quader and Ahmed (2017) ‘Bioenergy with Carbon Capture and Storage (BECCS): Future Prospects  of Carbon-Negative Technologies’ 
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/B9780128054239000041
xi  Pour et al. (2017) ‘A Sustainability Framework for Bioenergy with Carbon Capture and Storage (BECCS) Technologies’ https://www.
sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1876610217319434
xii  ADM (2017) ADM Begins Operations for Second Carbon Capture and Storage Project https://www.adm.com/news/news-releases/adm-
begins-operations-for-second-carbon-capture-and-storage-project-1
xiii  AVR (2019) Duiven CO2 https://www.avr.nl/en/co 
xiv  IEAGHG (2016) Waste Power CCU Projects in Japan https://ieaghg.org/docs/General_Docs/Publications/Information_Papers/2016-IP43.
pdf
xv  Drax (2018) Europe’s first bioenergy carbon capture and storage pilot now underway https://www.drax.com/press_release/europes-first-
bioenergy-carbon-capture-storage-pilot-now-underway/ 
xvi  Committee on Climate Change (2019) ‘Net Zero Technical Report’ https://www.theccc.org.uk/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/Net-Zero-
Technical-report-CCC.pdf
xvii  Committee on Climate Change (2019) ‘Net Zero Technical Report’ https://www.theccc.org.uk/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/NetZero-
Technical-report-CCC.pdf
xviii  Committee on Climate Change (2019) ‘Net Zero Technical Report’ pg. 281 https://www.theccc.org.uk/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/Net-
Zero-Technical-report-CCC.pdf 
xix  Wood Group Plc. (2018) Assessing the Cost Reduction Potential and Competitiveness of Novel (Next Generation) UK Carbon Capture 
Technology, pg. 142 https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/730562/BEIS_
Final_Benchmarks_Report_Rev_3A__2_.pdf 
xx  BEIS SelCom (2019) Carbon capture usage and storage: third time lucky? pg.12 https://publications.parliament.uk/pa/cm201719/
cmselect/cmbeis/1094/1094.pdf
xxi  Committee on Climate Change (2019) ‘Net Zero: The UK’s contribution to stopping global warming’ pg. 206 https://www.theccc.org.uk/
wp-content/uploads/2019/05/Net-Zero-The-UKs-contribution-to-stopping-global-warming.pdf
xxii  BECCS for Negative CO2 Emissions from Power (2019) https://www.dropbox.com/sh/r4jrd99sqeoymjw/AACYH6SSG_1j-B-rnW9vETYZa?dl
=0&preview=R+Ray+BECCS+Presentation_Wood.pdf   
xxiii  BEIS SelCom (2019) Carbon capture usage and storage: third time lucky? https://publications.parliament.uk/pa/cm201719/cmselect/
cmbeis/1094/1094.pdf
xxiv  Clean Growth Strategy CCUS Action Plan (2018) https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/
attachment_data/file/759637/beis-ccus-action-plan.pdf
xxv  Fajardy et al. (2019) BECCS deployment: a reality check Grantham Institute Briefing Paper No.28 https://www.imperial.ac.uk/media/
imperial-college/grantham-institute/public/publications/briefing-papers/BECCS-deployment---a-reality-check.pdf 
xxvi  Albanito et al. (2019) ‘Mitigation potential and environmental impact of centralized versus distributed BECCS with domestic biomass 
production in Great Britain’ Global Change Biology Bioenergy https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/gcbb.12630, pg.26
xxvii  REA (2019) Bioenergy Strategy Phase 2 – Bioenergy in the UK – A Vision to 2032 and Beyond. Available at: https://www.r-e-a.net/
resources/pdf/355/REA_Bioenergy_Strategy_-_Phase_2_A_Vision_to_2032_and_Beyond.pdf 
xxviii  Ibid. 
xxix  DECC (2012) UK Bioenergy Strategy, pg. 86 – 88 
xxx  Albanito et al. (2019) ‘Mitigation potential and environmental impact of centralized versus distributed BECCS with domestic biomass 
production in Great Britain’ Global Change Biology Bioenergy https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/gcbb.12630, pg.26 
xxxi  Ibid., pg.22 
xxxii  Albanito et al. (2019) ‘Mitigation potential and environmental impact of centralized versus distributed BECCS with domestic biomass 
production in Great Britain’ Global Change Biology Bioenergy https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/gcbb.12630
xxxiii  Committee on Climate Change (2018) ‘Biomass in a Low-Carbon Economy’ https://www.theccc.org.uk/wp-content/uploads/2018/11/
Biomass-in-a-low-carbon-economy-CCC-2018.pdf 
xxxiv  Committee on Climate Change (2019) ‘Net Zero: The UK’s contribution to stopping global warming’ pg. 151 https://www.theccc.org.uk/
wp-content/uploads/2019/05/Net-Zero-The-UKs-contribution-to-stopping-global-warming.pdf
xxxv  Committee on Climate Change (2018) ‘Biomass in a Low-Carbon Economy’ https://www.theccc.org.uk/wp-content/uploads/2018/11/
Biomass-in-a-low-carbon-economy-CCC-2018.pdf 
 FOOTNOTES AND REFERENCES
  12
xxxvi  Committee on Climate Change (2019) ‘Net Zero: The UK’s contribution to stopping global warming’ pg. 35 https://www.theccc.org.uk/
wp-content/uploads/2019/05/Net-Zero-The-UKs-contribution-to-stopping-global-warming.pdf 
xxxvii  BEIS SelCom (2019) Carbon capture usage and storage: third time lucky? https://publications.parliament.uk/pa/cm201719/cmselect/
cmbeis/1094/1094.pdf
xxxviii  CCSA (2016) Lowest cost decarbonisation for the UK: The critical role of CCS http://www.ccsassociation.org/index.php/download_file/
view/1043/508/ 
xxxix  Pöyry and Element Energy (2015) Potential CCS Cost Reduction Mechanisms https://www.theccc.org.uk/publication/poyry-element-
energy2015-potential-ccs-cost-reduction-mechanisms-report/poyry-element-energy2015-potential-ccs-cost-reduction-mechanisms-
report/ 
xI  Committee on Climate Change (2019) ‘Net Zero: The UK’s contribution to stopping global warming’ pg. 34 https://www.theccc.org.uk/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/Net-Zero-The-UKs-contribution-to-stopping-global-warming.pdf
xIi  Burke et al. (2019) ‘How to price carbon to reach net-zero emissions in the UK’. Grantham Research Institute on Climate Change on the 
Environment http://www.lse.ac.uk/GranthamInstitute/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/GRI_POLICY-REPORT_How-to-price-carbon-to-reach-
net-zero-emissions-in-the-UK.pdf
xIii  Fridahl and Lehtveer (2018) Bioenergy with carbon capture and storage (BECCS): Global potential, investment preferences, and 
deployment barriers Energy Research and Social Science 42, pgs. 155- 165. 
xIiii  Burke et al. (2019) ‘How to price carbon to reach net-zero emissions in the UK’. Grantham Research Institute on Climate Change on the 
Environment http://www.lse.ac.uk/GranthamInstitute/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/GRI_POLICY-REPORT_How-to-price-carbon-to-reach-
net-zero-emissions-in-the-UK.pdf
xIiv  Committee on Climate Change (2019) ‘Net Zero: The UK’s contribution to stopping global warming’ pg. 206 https://www.theccc.org.uk/
wp-content/uploads/2019/05/Net-Zero-The-UKs-contribution-to-stopping-global-warming.pdf 
xIv  Electricity Market Reforms (2017): Contracts for Difference https://www.gov.uk/government/collections/electricity-market-reform-
contracts-for-difference 
xIvi  45Q Carbon Capture Incentives https://www.catf.us/wp-content/uploads/2017/12/CATF_FactSheet_45QCarbonCaptureIncentives.pdf 
xIvii  EU Fuel Quality Directive https://ec.europa.eu/clima/policies/transport/fuel_en 
xIviii  Albanito et al. (2019) ‘Mitigation potential and environmental impact of centralized versus distributed BECCS with domestic biomass 
production in Great Britain’ Global Change Biology Bioenergy https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/gcbb.12630’
xIix  Committee on Climate Change (2018) ‘Biomass in a Low-Carbon Economy’ https://www.theccc.org.uk/wp-content/uploads/2018/11/
Biomass-in-a-low-carbon-economy-CCC-2018.pdf
I  CCUS Action Plan (2018) https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/759637/
beis-ccus-action-plan.pdf
Ii  Committee on Climate Change (2019) ‘Net Zero: The UK’s contribution to stopping global warming’ pg. 198 https://www.theccc.org.uk/
wp-content/uploads/2019/05/Net-Zero-The-UKs-contribution-to-stopping-global-warming.pdf
Iii  Ibid., pg.198 
Iiii  BEIS SelCom (2019) Carbon capture usage and storage: third time lucky? Pg.28 https://publications.parliament.uk/pa/cm201719/
cmselect/cmbeis/1094/1094.pdf
Special thanks are due to those who provided advice, comments and feedback on earlier drafts. These 
include: 
Adam Brown (Energy Insights); Benedict McAleenan (REA Policy); Fabrizio Albanito (University of 
Aberdeen); Frank Gordon (REA Policy); Gaynor Hartnell (REA Policy); Jonathan Scurlock (National Farmers 
Union); Joshua Burke (Grantham Research Institute on Climate Change and the Environment); Karl Smyth 
(Drax); Luke Warren (CCSA); Mark Sommerfeld (REA Policy); Mirjam Roeder (Supergen Bioenergy Hub); 
Richard Gow (Drax); Ruby Ray (Wood Group Plc). 
 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
13
For further information please contact:
Samuel Stevenson
Policy Analyst - Bioenergy, REA
sstevenson@r-e-a.net
+44(0)20 7925 3570
Mark Sommerfeld
Policy Manager, REA 
msommerfeld@r-e-a.net 
Lindsay Barnett
Head of Membership, Marketing & Events
lbarnett@r-e-a.net
  14
REA, 80 Strand, London, WC2R 0DT
020 7925 3570          info@r-e-a.net          www.r-e-a.net          @REAssociation
RENEWABLE ENERGY ASSOCIATION
GROWING THE RENEWABLE ENERGY & CLEAN TECH ECONOMY
  
JUNE 2019
