 
 
www.isio.com 
Drax Power Group of the 
Electricity Supply Pension 
Scheme 
Implementation Statement 
June 2022 
 
Document classification: Public 
June 2022 
 
© Isio Group Limited/Isio Services Limited 2022. All rights reserved 
Document classification: Public  |  2 
 
Background 
The Department for Work and Pensions (‘DWP’) is increasing regulation to improve 
disclosure of financially material risks. This regulatory change recognises 
Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) factors as financially material and 
pension schemes need to consider how these factors are managed as part of their 
fiduciary duty. The regulatory changes require that schemes detail their policies in 
their statement of investment principles (SIP) and demonstrate adherence to these 
policies in an implementation report. 
Statement of Investment Principles (SIP)  
In September 2020, the Group updated its SIP in to in response to the DWP 
regulation to cover: 
• Policies for managing financially material considerations including ESG factors 
and climate change. 
• Policies on the stewardship of the investments. 
The SIP can be found online at the following web address: 
https://www.drax.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/09/001-Drax-SIP-Sep-2020-
web-version.pdf 
Changes to the SIP (if any), covering the 12 months to 31 March 2022, are detailed 
on page 4. 
Implementation Report 
This implementation report is to provide evidence that the Group continues to 
follow and act on the principles outlined in the SIP. This report details: 
• Actions the Group has taken to manage financially material risks and implement 
the key policies in its SIP. 
• The current policy and approach with regards to ESG and the actions taken with 
managers on managing ESG risks. 
• The extent to which the Group has followed policies on engagement covering 
engagement actions with its fund managers and in turn the engagement activity 
of the fund managers with the companies in the investment mandate. 
• Voting behaviour covering the reporting year up to 31 March 2022 for and on 
behalf of the Group including the most significant votes cast by the Group or on 
its behalf. 
 
 
 
 
 
Background and 
Implementation 
Statement 
 
© Isio Group Limited/Isio Services Limited 2022. All rights reserved 
Document classification: Public  |  3 
 
 
 
Summary of key actions undertaken over the Group reporting year 
• 
There were no major strategic changes over the 12 months to 31 March 
2022. During the year, there were actions to rebalance the Group’s assets 
towards their strategic benchmark weights and increase the expected 
return of the portfolio.  
• 
For example, during Q3 2021, £23m was disinvested from the Group’s 
holdings with Cardano which was overweight in comparison to its 
benchmark. £17m of this was used to meet transfer values and the further 
£6m was invested with the L&G Absolute Return Bond Fund (which is 
primarily used to meet ongoing cashflow requirements) to provide liquidity 
for the Group and move the mandate closer to its target weighting. 
Implementation Statement 
This report demonstrates that Drax Power Group of the Electricity Supply Pension 
Scheme has adhered to its investment principles and its policies for managing 
financially material consideration including ESG factors and climate change. 
 
Signed 
Position 
Date 
 
© Isio Group Limited/Isio Services Limited 2022. All rights reserved 
Document classification: Public  |  4 
 
Changes to the SIP 
 
 
 
There have been no significant changes to the SIP over the 12-month period to 31 
March 2022 as there were no changes to the Group’s strategic asset allocation. The 
most recent changes to the Group’s SIP were made during September 2020 to 
comply with the DWP’s ESG regulations.   
 
© Isio Group Limited/Isio Services Limited 2022. All rights reserved 
Document classification: Public  |  5 
 
Risk / Policy 
Definition 
Policy 
Actions and details on 
changes to policy 
Interest rates 
and inflation 
The risk of mismatch 
between the value of the 
Group assets and present 
value of liabilities from 
changes in interest rates and 
inflation expectations. 
To hedge c.75% of these 
risks on a gilts +0% basis. 
  
The Group’s hedging 
arrangements are reviewed 
periodically to ensure they 
remain appropriate.  
During the year, the Group 
undertook an LDI retool to 
refine the hedge following 
changes to the Group’s 
liabilities, as a result of 
significant transfer values.  
Liquidity 
Difficulties in raising 
sufficient cash when 
required without adversely 
impacting the fair market 
value of the investment.  
  
To maintain a sufficient 
allocation to liquid assets so 
that there is a prudent buffer 
to pay members benefits as 
they fall due (including 
transfer values), and to 
provide collateral to the LDI 
manager. 
The Group holds an 
allocation to the L&G 
Absolute Return Bond Fund 
in order to maintain 
sufficient liquidity to meet 
ongoing cashflow 
requirements. During the 
period, the Fund was topped 
up to be more in line with its 
3% target allocation. 
Market 
Experiencing losses due to 
factors that affect the overall 
performance of the financial 
markets. 
To remain appropriately 
diversified and hedge away 
any unrewarded risks, where 
practicable.  
During the year, there were 
actions to rebalance the 
Group’s assets towards their 
strategic benchmark 
weights, maintaining a 
diversified portfolio.  
Credit 
Default on payments due as 
part of a financial security 
contract. 
  
To diversify this risk by 
investing in a range of credit 
markets across different 
geographies and sectors. 
To appoint investment 
managers who actively 
manage this risk by seeking 
to invest only in debt 
securities where the yield 
available sufficiently 
compensates the Group for 
the risk of default. 
No changes to policy during 
the period. 
Managing risks and policy 
actions   
 
© Isio Group Limited/Isio Services Limited 2022. All rights reserved 
Document classification: Public  |  6 
 
Environmental, 
Social and 
Governance 
Exposure to Environmental, 
Social and Governance 
factors, including but not 
limited to climate change, 
which can impact the 
performance of the Group’s 
investments. 
To appoint managers who 
account for ESG factors as a 
part of their investment 
process. 
The Group Trustees monitor 
the managers in this regard 
on an ongoing basis. 
Further detail provided later 
in this report. 
Currency 
The potential for adverse 
currency movements to have 
an impact on the Group’s 
investments. 
Hedge the currency risk on 
direct lending assets as 
much as practically possible. 
No changes to policy during 
the period. 
Non-financial 
Any factor that is not 
expected to have a financial 
impact on the Group’s 
investments. 
Non-financial matters are 
not taken into account in the 
selection, retention or 
realisation of investments. 
No changes to policy during 
the period. 
 
 
 
 
 
© Isio Group Limited/Isio Services Limited 2022. All rights reserved 
Document classification: Public  |  7 
 
ESG as a financially material risk 
The SIP describes the Group’s policy regarding ESG as a financially material risk. 
The Group has agreed a more detailed ESG policy which describes how it monitors 
and engages with the investment managers regarding the ESG polices. This page 
details the Group’s ESG policy. 
 
Current Policy  
 
Areas for 
engagement 
Method for monitoring and 
engagement 
Circumstances for 
additional monitoring and 
engagement 
Environmental, 
Social, Corporate 
Governance factors 
and the  
exercising of rights 
• 
The Group Trustees’ investment 
managers provide annual reports 
on how they have engaged with 
issuers regarding social, 
environmental and corporate 
governance issues. 
• 
The Group Trustees receive 
information from their 
investment advisers on the 
investment managers’ 
approaches to engagement. 
• 
The manager has 
not acted in 
accordance with 
their policies and 
frameworks. 
• 
The manager’s 
policies are not in 
line with the Group 
Trustees’ policies in 
this area. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Current ESG policy and 
approach  
 
© Isio Group Limited/Isio Services Limited 2022. All rights reserved 
Document classification: Public  |  8 
 
Areas of assessment 
The below table outlines the areas which the Group’s investment managers are 
assessed on when evaluating their ESG policies and engagements. The Group 
Trustees intend to review the Group’s ESG policies and engagements periodically 
to ensure they remain fit for purpose. 
 
Risk 
Management 
1. Integrating ESG factors, including climate change risk, represents an 
opportunity to increase the effectiveness of the overall risk management of 
the Group. 
2. ESG factors can be financially material and managing these risks forms part 
of the fiduciary duty of the Group Trustees. 
Approach / 
Framework 
3. The Group Trustees should understand how asset managers make ESG 
decisions and will seek to understand how ESG is integrated by each asset 
manager. 
4. ESG factors are relevant to investment decisions in all asset classes. 
5. Managers investing in companies’ debt, as well as equity, have a 
responsibility to engage with management on ESG factors. 
Reporting & 
Monitoring 
6. Ongoing monitoring and reporting of how asset managers manage ESG 
factors is important. 
7. ESG factors are dynamic and continually evolving; therefore the Group 
Trustees will receive training as required to develop their knowledge.  
8. The role of the Group’s asset managers is prevalent in integrating ESG 
factors; the Group Trustees will, alongside the investment advisor, monitor 
ESG in relation to the asset managers’ investment decisions.  
Voting & 
Engagement 
9. The Group Trustees will seek to understand each asset managers’ approach 
to voting and engagement when reviewing the asset managers’ approach. 
10. Engaging is more effective in seeking to initiate change than disinvesting. 
Collaboration 11. Asset managers should sign up and comply with common codes and 
practices such as the UNPRI & Stewardship code. If they do not sign up, they 
should have a valid reason why. 
12. Asset managers should engage with other stakeholders and market 
participants to encourage best practice on various issues such as board 
structure, remuneration, sustainability, risk management and debtholder 
rights. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
© Isio Group Limited/Isio Services Limited 2022. All rights reserved 
Document classification: Public  |  9 
 
Isio engaged with the Group’s investment managers over the year on behalf of the 
Group Trustees to discuss their ESG policies and set actions and priorities.  
As the Group invests in pooled vehicles accessed via fund managers the managers 
provided details on their engagement actions, including a summary of the 
engagements by category for the 12-month period to the end of March 2022. 
 
Fund name 
Engagement 
summary 
Commentary 
Cardano 
Solution 
Fund 12 
Total direct 
engagements: 0 
 
Given the fund of funds structure of the Group’s mandate 
with Cardano, there were no direct engagements between 
Cardano and the underlying portfolio companies over the 
reporting period. Instead, Cardano have provided 
engagement data for their external investment managers. 
Cardano engage with all investment managers regularly 
through their manager research team, operational due 
diligence team and as part of the delivery of Implementation 
Statements for their clients.  
 
Examples of significant engagements from the external 
investment managers include: 
 
Egerton – Egerton engaged with a car manufacturing 
company to improve their governance, with the intention of 
increasing shareholder returns and the treatment of minority 
shareholders. Egerton had frequent one-on-one discussions 
with the Chairman about governance where they conveyed a 
strong preference that minority shareholders should be 
better represented and receive a vote. Egerton proposed 
that the company equalise or harmonise its dual share class 
structure of non-voting preference shares and voting 
ordinary shares into one share class of voting shares. This 
has provided shareholders with better representation and 
improved the treatment for a variety of stakeholders, 
particularly minority shareholders.  
 
CC Japan – CC Japan engaged with a construction company 
following concerns over an insufficient number of female 
directors on the board. The management of the company 
has since made a step forward to improve gender diversity 
on the board, driven by Cardano’s engagement, by 
appointing a female director as an independent audit 
director in June 2021. 
Engagement  
 
© Isio Group Limited/Isio Services Limited 2022. All rights reserved 
Document classification: Public  |  10 
 
Permira 
Credit 
Solutions II 
Total 
engagements: 4  
Permira’s position as lenders means that they often rely on 
the equity sponsor to report ESG-related concerns and lead 
ESG improvements. However, Permira maintain ongoing 
contact with the management teams of their portfolio 
companies and are able to leverage their influence when 
applicable. 
Examples of significant engagements include: 
Soho House – Permira engaged with Soho House by 
encouraging the development of their sustainability strategy 
focusing on: climate, environment, diversity and inclusion, 
social and economic. This led to a new sustainability section 
on their website which showcased their strategy and 
progress. Permira also developed a sustainability linked loan 
(“SLL”) with Soho House, engaging with external advisers to 
develop and identify suitable ESG Key Performance 
Indicators (“KPIs”) for the SLL. 
Paperchase – Permira engaged with Paperchase to expand 
and develop their existing ‘Paperchase Promise’, focusing on 
sustainable sourcing and plastic reduction. Although Permira 
believe the company recognises sustainability as a key pillar 
of their new strategy, Permira also introduced an external 
adviser to support on sustainability. This has increased the 
number of board level discussions on ESG factors.  
Permira 
Credit 
Solutions IV 
Total 
engagements: 4  
Permira’s position as lenders also limits their engagement 
power with respect to the PCS IV Fund.  
The engagement with Soho House above also applies to the 
PCS IV Fund as the investment was held across both Funds. 
Permira could not provide any other examples of significant 
engagement for the PCS IV Fund.  
Permira have also requested ESG-related KPI data for PCS IV 
as part of a pilot process. Likewise, Permira issued its second 
ESG questionnaire with expanded questions to align with 
industry standards agreed in the ESG Data Convergence 
Project in December 2021. The questionnaire was sent to all 
companies within PCS IV. Additionally, Permira engaged with 
an external company to undertake a climate risk assessment 
of their portfolio. 
L&G 
Absolute 
Return Bond 
Fund 
Total 
engagements: 125 
Environmental: 80 
Social: 34 
Governance: 62 
Other: 26 
Please note some 
engagements 
cover more than 
one area. 
L&G’s Investment Stewardship team are responsible for 
engagement activities across all funds. L&G share their 
finalised ESG scorecards with portfolio companies and the 
metrics on which they are based. L&G regularly monitor 
companies and where engagements are unsuccessful, the 
team will assess where problems arose and new approaches 
to be employed. L&G engage with regulators, governments, 
and other industry participants to address long-term 
structural issues. L&G has firm wide stewardship priorities 
with a current priority focus on inequality, ethnic diversity 
and tax transparency.  
L&G do not consider engagement on a fund-by-fund basis 
but do actively approach ESG at a firm level. As such, L&G do 
not employ a formal framework for measuring the success of 
an engagement, as they believe success is difficult to 
measure, and is best reflected in the overall market value of 
an asset. L&G could not provide specific examples of 
significant engagements. 
 
© Isio Group Limited/Isio Services Limited 2022. All rights reserved 
Document classification: Public  |  11 
 
L&G Active 
Corporate 
Bond All 
Stocks Index 
Fund 
Total 
engagements: 147 
Environmental: 82 
Social: 48 
Governance: 80 
Other: 28 
Please note that 
the data above 
applies to the 12 
months to 31 
December 2021 
and some 
engagements 
cover more than 
one area. 
The above wording on L&G’s Investment Stewardship team 
and engagement on a fund-by-fund basis applies to all the 
L&G funds. Likewise, L&G could not provide specific 
examples of significant engagements. 
L&G LDI 
Funds 
L&G were unable to 
provide details of 
engagement 
during this period 
for these funds. Isio 
are working with 
L&G to find ways of 
improving their 
engagement 
reporting and 
expect L&G to start 
sharing 
engagement data 
from Q2 2022. 
The above wording on L&G’s Investment Stewardship team 
and engagement on a fund-by-fund basis applies to all the 
L&G funds. Likewise, L&G could not provide specific 
examples of significant engagements. 
L&G Long 
Lease 
Property 
Fund 
 
© Isio Group Limited/Isio Services Limited 2022. All rights reserved 
Document classification: Public  |  12 
 
As the Group invests via fund managers the managers provided details on their 
voting actions including a summary of the activity covering the reporting year up to 
31 March 2022. The managers also provided examples of any significant votes.  
 
Fund 
name 
Voting summary 
Examples of significant votes 
Cardano 
Solution 
Fund 12 
Proposals voted: 0 
 
As Cardano holds no direct 
equity investments, they do not 
have voting rights for the 
underlying portfolio companies. 
Instead, Cardano provided voting 
data and examples of significant 
votes cast for the external 
investment managers they deem 
as being ‘high focus’ in relation 
to ESG (meaning ESG factors 
could materially impact the risk 
and return profile of the 
underlying manager’s strategy). 
Examples of significant votes cast by the external 
investment managers include: 
 
Egerton – voted in favour of a shareholder proposal for the 
Canadian Pacific’s board of directors to produce a 
greenhouse gas emission levels reduction plan, and to 
report annually on the progress made towards the plan. 
Egerton believed the vote in favour was the correct 
decision based on ESG considerations. 
 
Sunriver – Sunriver voted for a dissident proxy against Box 
Inc, lead by an activist shareholder who proposed 
resolutions to nominate three of their own directors to the 
ten-member board, citing slow growth and a lack of 
company profitability. The analyst at Sunriver 
recommended this vote as they believed this would be in 
the best interests of the company and their shareholders. 
 
Full voting data for external managers Cardano have identified as ‘high focus’ is as follows: 
 
Manager 
Potential 
votes 
Proportion of 
votes cast 
Proportion 
of votes cast 
for 
Proportion 
of votes 
cast against 
Proportion 
of votes 
abstained 
Amia 
109 
95% 
100% 
- 
- 
CC Japan  
337 
100% 
100% 
- 
- 
Egerton 
513 
94% 
97% 
0% 
3% 
Polar Capital  
538 
99% 
95% 
5% 
0% 
Sands Capital  
524 
96% 
90% 
5% 
5% 
Sunriver  
155 
92% 
90% 
5% 
5% 
 
Voting (for equity/multi 
asset funds only) 
 
© Isio Group Limited/Isio Services Limited 2022. All rights reserved 
Document classification: Public  |  13 
 
 
 
www.isio.com 
Isio Services Limited is authorised and regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority FRN 922376. 
Document classification: Public 
The information contained herein is of a general nature and is not intended 
to address the circumstances of any particular individual or entity. Although 
we endeavour to provide accurate and timely information, there can be no 
guarantee that such information is accurate as of the date it is received or 
that it will continue to be accurate in the future. No one should act on such 
information without appropriate professional advice after a thorough 
examination of the particular situation. 
