Progress, impacts and 
outlook for transforming 
Britain’s energy system
Energising 
Britain
2
Progress, impacts and 
outlook for transforming 
Britain’s energy system
November 2018
Authors:
Dr Iain Staffell, Dr Malte Jansen: Imperial College London
Adam Chase, Chester Lewis, Eloise Cotton: E4tech
Please refer to this report as:
I. Staffell, M. Jansen, A. Chase, C. Lewis and E. Cotton, 2018.  
Energising Britain: Progress, impacts and outlook for 
transforming Britain’s energy system.  
Drax Group: Selby.
Energising 
Britain
3
Preface
This report was commissioned 
by Drax Group and delivered 
independently by academics from 
Imperial College London (facilitated 
by the College’s consultancy 
company, Imperial Consultants), 
and consultants from E4tech.
Drax Group commissioned the 
authors to conduct new research 
into how transformations in Britain’s 
energy system are likely to impact 
the country’s economic, societal 
and environmental outcomes. 
The aim of this research is to 
provide insight into the changes 
that are occurring and those that 
are needed to ensure that energy 
system transformation unlocks 
opportunities for businesses, 
government and households 
in a just and equitable way.
This report is the independent 
opinion of the authors. It focuses 
on Great Britain rather than 
the United Kingdom as lack 
of data prevented Northern 
Ireland from being included.
Cover illustration: viewcreative.co.uk
Drax Group
Drax Group plc plays a vital role in 
helping change the way energy is 
generated, supplied and used for a 
better future. Its 2,300-strong staff 
operate across three principal areas of 
activity – electricity generation, electricity 
sales to business customers and 
compressed wood pellet production.
Imperial Consultants
Imperial Consultants provide access to over 
4,000 research-active expert academics 
and Imperial College London’s state 
of the art facilities to deliver innovative 
solutions to meet the business needs of 
industry, government and the third sector.
E4tech
E4tech is an international strategic 
consultancy focused on sustainable energy.
E4tech helps clarify and simplify complex 
and uncertain situations, to achieve 
solutions that are technologically, 
economically and environmentally sound
4
Will Gardiner 
Chief Executive, Drax Group
Will Gardiner
Foreword
Our world is changing fast.
 
New technologies are transforming 
the way we live and work. They 
are changing businesses and 
communities and creating huge 
opportunities to improve our 
quality of life, and Britain’s ability 
to compete in a global economy.
This shift is being enabled by a revolution 
taking place across our energy system – 
ultimately to a zero carbon, low cost system 
where technology and data will enable 
businesses and homeowners to create 
energy as well as use it, and give them 
more control over the energy they use.
These changes are creating significant 
benefits. But as in every transition there is a 
risk that those most able to take advantage 
of new technologies will enjoy their 
benefits first while others get left behind.
A failure to ensure the transition is enjoyed 
across Britain will also undermine much 
needed progress to decarbonise our 
economy and tackle climate change.
Drax, is at the heart of the energy transition. 
We see these changes taking place 
every day – across our businesses, and 
among the customers and communities 
we serve. What’s less clear is how 
Britain is faring through this change. 
Now, for the first time, this report gives us 
some answers. Researchers from Imperial 
College London and E4tech have looked 
right across our economy. Using 20 different 
metrics they have assessed progress in 
critical sectors including power, transport 
and industry. Crucially they’ve also broken 
down their findings to a regional level.
The results make stark reading. While real 
progress has been made in some sectors 
to decarbonise, others lag behind.
While most nations and regions have 
taken steps to create the future energy 
system we need, the picture is not uniform. 
Most worrying is clear evidence that once 
again a divide is opening between those 
parts of the country where people are 
better placed to take advantage of new 
technologies – and those who are not.
The conclusion is clear: Failure to address 
these energy divides will leave some 
communities falling behind. It will restrict 
our businesses ability to compete in a 
fierce global economy. And our efforts to 
tackle climate change will be hindered.
To respond energy companies, businesses, 
communities and governments must work 
together. Drax is committed to play our part.
I’m proud of the contribution we have 
already made. We have transformed the 
UK’s largest coal-fired power station to 
become the biggest decarbonisation 
project in Europe and the country’s biggest 
renewable power generator. Today, we 
maintain significant generation capacity  
aim to bolster our ability to provide flexible, 
low-carbon generation further − supporting 
the increase in solar and wind power across 
Britain’s energy system. We’re trialling 
innovative Bioenergy Carbon Capture Use 
and Storage technology, which is the first of 
its kind in Europe and has the potential to 
deliver negative emissions. And through our 
retail businesses we are helping thousands 
of business switch to use 100% renewable 
energy, and use it more efficiently. 
But, this report shows us there is much more 
to do. 
We will continue to invest in and develop 
the new technologies which will finish 
the job of taking Drax off coal, ensure we 
become zero carbon and play a bigger 
part in decarbonising the wider economy.
And, we will continue to help our customers 
reduce their own carbon emissions, save 
money and create new revenues from 
energy production which will boost their 
ability to compete in their own markets.
Our role is clear. Drax is enabling a zero 
carbon, lower cost future for all.
This report reinforces the challenges ahead, 
but also the opportunities to meet them. I 
commit Drax to playing our part to do so.
5
Executive Summary
Major pressures are shifting the 
UK’s patterns of employment, 
leisure, travel and industry, with 
consequences for our energy 
needs. At the same time, the UK 
has made strong commitments to 
reduce greenhouse gas emissions 
related to energy. Many towns 
and cities struggle with chronic 
air pollution from cars, vans and 
lorries. Businesses and households 
face rising energy bills, putting 
a squeeze on both economic 
competitiveness and quality of life.
Why this 
report matters
Electrification is essential, touching all 
elements of Britain’s changing economy and 
energy system. Renewable electricity has 
radically transformed the power sector, and 
electric vehicles are poised to revolutionise 
transport. Electricity could lower the cost 
and pollution from home heating and the 
daily commute, as well as the way in which 
large buildings and factories operate. 
Alongside electricity, other ingredients of the 
future energy system will include a growing 
role for data, minimising energy use when 
power is in short supply and maximising 
use when and where it is plentiful, making 
intelligent use of low carbon fuels and heat, 
and potentially capturing greenhouse gases.  
Together these changes are known as the 
‘energy revolution’. There is strong global 
evidence of the imperative for this significant 
and – increasingly – urgent change.
Work towards the energy revolution is 
underway in UK, but so far much of the 
action has been behind the scenes. The 
sweeping changes to how we generate 
electricity have not changed what happens 
when you turn on the lights at home, but the 
next steps will impact on everyday life for 
many. The emergence of electric vehicles, 
intelligent home energy management and 
zero-carbon buildings are all necessary to 
stay competitive and honour our climate 
change and related policy targets. These 
will have profound implications on the cost 
of energy and how people receive energy 
services, so it is imperative to outline these 
changes for stakeholders of all types.
The UK’s energy transition is well described 
by national and international expert 
bodies, but mainly looking at individual 
components of the system in terms of 
technologies, costs and benefits. These 
studies treat countries and continents as 
a whole, potentially missing the important 
socio-economic and environmental 
differences that exist within countries.
This assessment is the first 
to examine Britain’s energy 
transition at the regional level, 
showing where each aspect 
of the energy system currently 
stands and where it must go 
to avoid being left behind.
This assessment is the first to examine 
Britain’s energy transition at the regional 
level,a showing where each aspect of the 
energy system currently stands and where it 
must go to avoid being left behind. It looks 
more broadly than raw emissions reductions 
to consider the many infrastructural enablers 
for revolutionising the energy system.
Crucially, it explores what these changes 
will mean for individual households, 
businesses and society as a whole, and 
exposes the important regional differences 
that are developing within Britain. Without 
awareness of these regional disparities and 
their potential impacts, Britain risks creating 
a two-tier energy system, where some get 
ahead with the fuels and technologies of 
the future, while others are left behind with 
the higher costs, environmental and health 
problems that come from burning legacy 
fossil fuels - leaving millions of families 
and businesses less equipped to enjoy 
cheaper bills and better outcomes.
Britain risks creating a two-tier 
energy system, where some 
get ahead with the fuels and 
technologies of the future,  
while others are left behind  
with the higher costs, 
environmental and health 
problems that come from  
burning legacy fossil fuels - 
leaving millions of families  
and businesses less equipped 
to enjoy cheaper bills and 
better outcomes.
a  Northern Ireland’s electricity system is largely 
separate from that of Great Britain, so this 
study focuses on GB rather than the UK
6
Britain’s energy transition progress
This report analyses Britain’s complex and highly interdependent energy system by
considering power generation and then energy use in transport, buildings and industry.
Within these four sectors, 20 measures 
have been devised to represent Britain’s
progress towards having an energy system 
that’s fit for the future, and can serve
households and businesses with clean, 
secure and low-cost energy. Aggregate
progress is summarised below with a 
‘barometer’ for three of the four sectors:b
Britain’s greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 
have fallen since 1990, but the decline is not 
evenly distributed across energy sectors. 
The outstanding success has been in the 
power sector, chiefly through closing coal-
fired generation and the rise of renewables, 
also benefiting air quality. Further progress 
is expected, raising the importance of 
a smart and flexible power system that 
features demand side response, storage, 
interconnections and smart meters. Most 
of these areas are behind target, requiring 
immediate efforts to bring them in step with 
growing renewables.
The rapid clean-up of the power sector 
has fed through into electricity-consuming 
areas such as industry, where economic 
growth has decoupled from GHG emissions.  
Britain’s industry is currently on track to 
reach climate targets. Absolute electricity 
use in industry has stayed constant while 
fossil fuel combustion has declined, as 
processes have been electrified and 
efficiency increases have been made. 
Further electrification will be harder, so 
GHG reductions may need to come through 
technologies such as hydrogen and carbon 
capture use and storage (CCUS). 
All of this is made harder still by the need 
for most industries to remain internationally 
competitive whilst avoiding the ‘offshoring’ 
of emissions and jobs to other countries.
In contrast with the power sector, the 
limited pace of transformation in transport 
and domestic heating means that there is 
much more to do. Of particular concern is 
air quality in Britain’s cities and the slow 
progress being made on diesel pollution, 
but CO2 emissions from transport are 
also on the rise, especially from goods 
vehicles. The stage is set for a radical 
shift in transportation thanks to recharging 
infrastructure growth and EV sales picking 
up; over a quarter of new vehicle sales 
are expected to be ‘plug-ins’ by 2030 
and forecasts are frequently being revised 
upwards. Electric buses are finding a 
place in cities where pollution is a pressing 
problem, but electric goods vehicles are 
some way behind. Hydrogen vehicles and 
infrastructure remain in their infancy in UK, 
though these provide a zero emission option 
for goods vehicles, where batteries appear 
less suitable. Furthermore, hydrogen may offer 
a means to electrify railway lines where the 
cost of overhead power lines is prohibitive.
The efficiency of Britain’s building stock is a 
critical issue, with 13% of homes suffering 
from fuel poverty, and non-domestic 
buildings generally worse than households. 
UK buildings remain largely heated by fossil 
fuels, so only a few parts of the UK are well-
placed to benefit from the decarbonisation 
of power through electric heating. The 
outlook for heating is unclear, with heat 
pumps, electric heating and hydrogen each 
having their proponents, but no overall 
direction. Regardless of the pathway choice 
(which is needed urgently) building efficiency 
will be a core feature. Thankfully, appliances 
and lighting in buildings have seen improved 
efficiency and thus reducing pressure on 
energy bills and indirect GHG emissions 
from the power sector.
b  Note that data are too scarce to support 
an equivalent summary for industry
Not on track
Within 90% of target
Ahead of target
HOUSING
Fuel
poverty
Heat
pumps
Non-res
efficiency
Non-res
emissions
Household
efficiency
Household
emissions
Electric
heating
POWER:
Smart
meters
Electricity
storage
Inter-
connection
Transmission
Demand side
response
Carbon
intensity
TRANSPORT
GHG
emissions
Hydogen
stations
Electric
HGVs
Rail
Plug-in
cars
EV
chargers
Electric
buses
7
Executive Summary
Progress in transforming Britain’s energy system is uneven and 
this report reveals marked differences between the regions.
Cost reductions in key technologies 
such as renewable generators and 
batteries show that the costs of 
transforming the energy system 
could be modest. Ultimately, 
moving to modern clean energy 
could result in the lowest 
bills, although any increased 
capital costs to consumers and 
businesses should be considered 
in the context of affordability.
Regional disparities
Implications for individuals, 
businesses and society
Generally, more affluent regions have made 
significantly greater progress. The north 
of England is falling well short, with only
London and Scotland coming close 
to being on track to meet their overall 
targets. This first step towards exposing 
the differences between the regions paints 
an instructive picture of Britain’s unequal 
progress, and it should be remembered 
that differences within individual 
regions will be similarly important.
Renewable power generation is distributed 
according to natural resources, so England 
has much less low-carbon power per 
person than Scotland and Wales. However,
Scotland and Wales also have some 
of the lowest transmission capacities 
to neighbouring regions, holding back 
further development of renewables. In 
contrast with the general picture for 
most metrics, Wales and the North East 
have the highest penetration of smart 
meters in Britain, London the lowest.
Homes and companies in London and the 
South East spend less on energy relative to 
income. Those in Wales and the North East 
spend the most, so any changes to energy 
costs will make the greatest difference to the 
welfare and profits of homes and businesses 
in these areas. In transport, the total cost 
of owning electric vehicles is on track to 
reach parity with conventional vehicles. 
However, the higher upfront purchase price 
of EVs poses a greater affordability barrier 
in less affluent regions. Scotland and
Wales have lowest EV affordability, the 
West Midlands and London the highest. If 
marked differences in uptake arise from this, 
Britain’s cities could see rising inequality 
due to the health effects of air pollution.
In industry, further electrification may 
be difficult without impacting on energy 
costs, unless measures are taken to level 
the playing field. The changing power 
mix is shifting employment patterns, with 
job losses in fossil fuels offset by gains 
in new industries, often in poorer remote 
areas. Electrification and automation often 
go hand in hand, and the South East, 
Midlands and north of England face the 
highest risk of job losses from automation.
In a fast-changing transport picture, the West Midlands 
and the East currently have the highest uptake of 
passenger electric vehicles, London has the most 
electric buses, while the South East, northern regions of 
England and Scotland have the highest share of ultra-
low emission HGVs. On an absolute basis, however, 
the south of England is leading in the deployment 
of plug-in electric vehicles, which is correlated to 
higher household incomes in these regions.
Energy efficiency in buildings is 
neglected across Britain, and 
much lower than is justifiable. 
However, it is generally better in 
the south of England and Scotland 
and worse in the Midlands, 
northern England and Wales. 
The North East has done the 
most to fix low-efficiency houses, 
but still has high fuel poverty 
rates due to income levels and 
remaining poor quality buildings.
POWER, TRANSPORT & BUILDINGS
London
Scotland
East
South West
South East
West Midlands
Wales
Yorkshire
East Midlands
North West
North East
Not on
track
Within 90%
of target
Ahead 
of target
8
Overall conclusions
In this first assessment of Britain’s 
energy transition, there is much  
to be positive about, but the 
observation that “the future is 
already here – it’s just not very 
evenly distributed” applies.
The rapid decarbonisation of electricity 
is a feather in the UK’s cap, providing a 
means to transform electricity-intensive 
sectors. Buildings and to some extent 
industry are already benefiting, whilst 
transport is potentially well-positioned.
There are tough challenges ahead 
though, since areas such as heavy 
industry, freight transport and some 
parts of heating do not immediately 
lend themselves to electrification, so 
other options need to be considered.
The uneven distribution of change also 
applies regionally and socially. A looming 
concern is the effect of disparities in 
the energy transition, with some at 
risk of being left behind economically 
due to unaffordable changes. 
As in other walks of life 
London stands apart, whilst 
less affluent regions in the 
north and elsewhere are falling 
behind on many measures.
As in other walks of life London stands 
apart, whilst less affluent regions in the 
north and elsewhere are falling behind 
on many measures. If the sole aim of the 
transition were to decarbonise energy, it 
might be rational to focus on wealthier 
metropolitan areas like London ahead of 
the rest of the country. However, if this 
begins to affect our way of life through the 
cost of energy, quality of services and air 
pollution then such a strategy risks creating 
a twotrack energy system that worsens 
regional inequality. To be effective, the UK’s 
energy transformation needs be a force 
for good across society and across the 
UK, not just where it is most convenient.
To be effective, the UK’s energy 
transformation needs be a 
force for good across society 
and across the UK, not just 
where it is most convenient..
9
