 Electical Connection PDAS  
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Electrical Connection 
Planning and Design 
Access Statement 
(PDAS) 
Abergelli Power Project 
 
 
 
 
August 2018 
 Electical Connection PDAS  
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
2 
 
CONTENTS 
1. 
Introduction .......................................................................................................................... 3 
 
Overview .................................................................................................................... 3 
1.1
 
Background ................................................................................................................ 3 
1.2
 
Information Submitted in Support of the Application .................................................. 4 
1.3
 
Legislative Context ..................................................................................................... 5 
1.4
 
The Developer ............................................................................................................ 6 
1.5
 
Purpose and Structure of this Statement ................................................................... 7 
1.6
2. 
Site and Surroundings ......................................................................................................... 9 
 
Electrical Connection Location ................................................................................... 9 
2.1
 
Surrounding Area ....................................................................................................... 9 
2.2
 
Planning History ....................................................................................................... 10 
2.3
 
Environmental Effects .............................................................................................. 11 
2.4
3. 
The Electrical Connection ................................................................................................. 12 
 
Introduction .............................................................................................................. 12 
3.1
 
The Need for the Electrical Connection ................................................................... 13 
3.2
4. 
Design Analysis ................................................................................................................. 15 
 
Introduction .............................................................................................................. 15 
4.1
 
Character ................................................................................................................. 15 
4.2
 
Access and Movement ............................................................................................. 15 
4.3
 
Environmental Sustainability .................................................................................... 15 
4.4
 
Community safety .................................................................................................... 16 
4.5
 
Other considerations ................................................................................................ 16 
4.6
 
Response to planning policy .................................................................................... 16 
4.7
5. 
Planning Policy Context .................................................................................................... 17 
 
Introduction .............................................................................................................. 17 
5.1
 
National Planning Policy .......................................................................................... 17 
5.2
 
Local Planning Policy ............................................................................................... 20 
5.3
 
Summary of Compliance with the Development Plan .............................................. 24 
5.4
 
Emerging Planning Policy ........................................................................................ 25 
5.5
 
Supplementary Planning Guidance .......................................................................... 34 
5.6
6. 
Conclusions ....................................................................................................................... 35 
7. 
References ........................................................................................................................ 36 
 
 
FIGURES 
Figure 1: Site Location Plan 
Figure 2: Site Layout Plan 
Figure 3: Extract from the UDP Proposals Map and Legend (Insert) 
Figure 4: Extract from draft LDP Proposals Map (Map 13: Mawr) (Insert) 
 Electical Connection PDAS  
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
3 
 
1. 
Introduction 
 
Overview 
1.1
1.1.1 
This Planning and Design Access Statement (PDAS) has been prepared on the behalf of 
Abergelli Power Limited (APL) in support of an application for full planning permission for 
an electrical connection to the existing Swansea North substation from the proposed 
Abergelli Power Project Station (hereafter referred to as the “Electrical Connection”). The 
location of the Electrical Connection can be viewed on Figure 1: Site Location Plan and the 
layout in Figure 2: Site Layout Plan. The Electrical Connection comprises: 
1.1.2 
“Installation of an Electrical Connection in the form of a new underground electrical cable to 
export power from the Generating Equipment to the National Grid Electricity Transmission 
System (NETS), including access, associated engineering operations and landscaping.” 
1.1.3 
An application for a screening opinion was submitted pursuant to Regulation 6(1) of the 
Town and Country Planning (Environmental Impact Assessment) (Wales) Regulations 2017 
(the ‘EIA Regulations’) to the City and County of Swansea Council (CCS) regarding the 
need for an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) for the Electrical Connection on the 
15th June 2018.  
1.1.4 
On the 19th July, CCS confirmed that the Electrical Connection was not EIA Development, 
and therefore no EIA is required. This PDAS therefore provides the required planning and 
design information to support this Planning Application under the Town and Country 
Planning Act 1990 (as amended). 
 
Background 
1.2
1.2.1 
APL proposes to construct and operate an Open Cycle Gas Turbine (“OCGT”) peaking 
power generating station (the "Power Generation Plant") and new connections to the gas 
and electricity networks on land adjacent to the Felindre Gas Compressor Station at 
Abergelli Farm, Felindre, Swansea, SA5 7NN (the “Project”).   
1.2.2 
APL's project is split into three different elements which are described below, which 
together form the "Project".  These elements are referred to as the Power Generation 
Plant, the Gas Connection and the Electrical Connection. 
1.2.3 
The three main elements of the Project comprise:  
 
An Open Cycle Gas Turbine (OCGT) peaking power generating station, fuelled by 
natural gas and capable of providing a rated electrical output of up to 299 Megawatts 
(MW). The Power Generation Plant comprises: 
o 
Generating Equipment including one Gas Turbine Generator with one exhaust 
gas flue stack and Balance of Plant (BOP) (together referred to as the 
“Generating Equipment”) which are located within the “Generating Equipment 
Site”; 
o 
An Access Road to the Project Site from the B4489 which lies to the west, 
formed by upgrading an existing access road between the B4489 junction and 
the Swansea North Substation (the “Substation”) and constructing a new 
section of access road from the Substation to the Generating Equipment Site; 
and 
 Electical Connection PDAS  
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
4 
 
o 
A temporary construction compound for the storage of materials, plant and 
equipment as well as containing site accommodation and welfare facilities, 
temporary car parking and temporary fencing (the “Laydown Area”). A small 
area within the Laydown Area will be retained permanently (the “Maintenance 
Compound”). 
o 
Ecological Mitigation Area – area for ecological enhancement within the 
Project Site Boundary    
o 
Permanent parking and drainage to include: a site foul, oily water and surface 
water drainage system.  
 
A Gas Connection in the form of a new Above Ground Installation (AGI) and 
underground gas connection (the “Gas Pipeline”) to bring natural gas to the Generating 
Equipment from the National Gas Transmission System; and 
 
An Electrical Connection in the form of a new underground electrical cable to export 
power from the Generating Equipment to the National Grid Electricity Transmission 
System (NETS).  
1.2.4 
The Electrical Connection is the focus of this PDAS. 
 
Information Submitted in Support of the Application 
1.3
1.3.1 
Documents supporting this application include: 
 
The completed planning application form and accompanying certificates; 
 
Plans; 
 
Pre-Application Consultation Report; 
 
Environmental Report, with Appended Reports: 
o 
EIA Screening Request and Matrix; 
o 
Mitigation Register; 
o 
Preliminary Ecological Appraisal Report; 
o 
NVC Survey Report 2014; 
o 
Invertebrate Survey Report; 
o 
Great Crested Newt Survey Report; 
o 
Reptile Survey Report; 
o 
Breeding Bird Survey Report; 
o 
Breeding Bird Survey UPDATE Report; 
o 
Bat Roost and Walked Activity Transect Survey Report; 
o 
Bat Roost and Walked Activity Transect Survey UPDATE Report; 
o 
Bat Survey Report 2014; 
o 
Dormouse Survey Report; 
o 
Otter and Water Vole Survey Report; 
o 
Badger Survey Report (Confidential); 
o 
Arboricutural Survey Report 2014; 
o 
Preliminary Ecological Appraisal 2014; 
o 
Otter and Water Vole Survey Report 2014 
o 
Final Dormouse Survey Report 2014; 
o 
Breeding Bird Survey Report 2014; 
o 
Great Crested Newt Survey Report 2014; 
o 
Reptile Survey Report 2014; 
o 
Invasive Plant Species Survey Report; 
o 
Hedgerow Survey; 
o 
Flood Consequence Assessment (FCA); 
 Electical Connection PDAS  
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
5 
 
o 
Water Framework Directive (WFD) Screening Assessment; 
o 
Noise Survey; 
o 
Cultural Heritage Gazetteer; 
o 
Landmark Envirocheck Report; 
o 
Preliminary Geo-Environmental Risk Assessment; and 
o 
Coal Authority Mining Report. 
 
Legislative Context 
1.4
a) Requirement for a Design and Access Statement 
1.4.1 
The requirement for a Design and Access Statement (DAS) is set out in the Town and 
Country Planning (Development Management Procedure) (Wales) (Amendment) Order 
2016 and applies to all planning applications major development in Wales. Major 
development is defined paragraph 2 of the Town and Country Planning (Development 
Management Procedure (Wales) Order 2012 as: 
“development involving any one or more of the following—  
(a) the winning and working of minerals or the use of land for mineral-working deposits;  
(b) waste development;  
(c) the provision of dwellinghouses where: 
(i) the number of dwellinghouses to be provided is 10 or more; or  
(ii) the development is to be carried out on a site having an area of 0.5 hectares or more 
and it is not known whether the development falls within sub-paragraph (c)(i);  
(d) the provision of a building or buildings where the floor space to be created by the 
development is 1,000 square metres or more; or  
(e) development carried out on a site having an area of 1 hectare or more.” 
1.4.2 
The Electrical Connection Site exceeds 1 hectare in size and therefore comprises major 
development and a DAS is required to accompany the planning application. 
1.4.3 
Relevant guidance on the preparation of DAS documents is provided in the following 
documents: 
 
Planning Policy Wales (PPW) Edition 9 (January, 2016); 
 
Technical Advice Note (TAN) 12: Design (March 2016); and 
 
Best practice guidance on preparing DAS documents is set out in Design and Access 
Statements in Wales Why, What and How, June 2017. The guidance was prepared by 
the Design Commission for Wales (DCfW) on behalf of the Welsh Government. 
1.4.4 
For ease of reference, the assessment of planning policy in respect of the Electrical 
Connection has been incorporated with the design assessment in this PDAS. 
 Electical Connection PDAS  
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
6 
 
b) Development Consent under the Planning Act 2008 
i. 
Power Generation Plant 
1.4.5 
The Power Generation Plant described above would have a rated electrical output of up to 
299 MW of electricity and is therefore classified as a Nationally Significant Infrastructure 
Project (“NSIP”) under section 15 of the Planning Act 2008 (as amended) (“PA 2008”).   
1.4.6 
As such, APL is applying to the Secretary of State (“SoS”) for Business, Energy and 
Industrial Strategy under section 31 of the PA 2008 for a Development Consent Order 
(“DCO”) for powers to construct, operate and maintain the Power Generation Plant. The 
DCO Application was submitted on 25th May, 2018 and accepted for Examination on 21st 
June 2018. 
ii. Associated Development 
1.4.7 
The Gas Connection and Electrical Connection comprise development associated with the 
NSIP (“associated development”).   
1.4.8 
The PA 2008 restricts associated development for which consent can be sought under a 
DCO in Wales to development that is associated with a generating station with a capacity 
in excess of 350 MW.  As the Power Generation Plant would have rated electrical output of 
up to 299 MW, associated development to the Power Generation Plant cannot be included 
in any application for DCO under the PA 2008.  The application for a DCO therefore only 
includes the Power Generation Plant and related mitigation as "authorised development" 
and does not seek development consent for the Gas Connection or the Electrical 
Connection. 
iii. Town and Country Planning Act 1990  
1.4.9 
APL is seeking full planning permission for the Electrical Connection under the Town and 
Country Planning Act 1990 ("TCPA 1990").  
iv. Abergelli Power Project Environmental Statement  
1.4.10 
The Project is a Schedule 1 development as it is a thermal generating station with a heat 
output of 300 MW or more as listed in Schedule 1, paragraph 2(1) of the Infrastructure 
Planning (Environmental Impact Assessment) Regulations 2009. As such, an EIA has been 
carried out in respect of the development.  
1.4.11 
Mitigation has been identified within the EIA carried out for the Project which is applicable 
to the Electrical Connection. This mitigation includes both embedded mitigation (mitigation 
inherent in to the design of the Project and also specifically to the Electrical Connection), or 
additional mitigation (which is required to mitigate any residual adverse effects of the 
Project).  
 
The Developer 
1.5
1.5.1 
The Applicant is APL, an energy development company established for the Project and 
owned by Drax Group plc (Drax). 
1.5.2 
Drax is responsible for generating 6% of the UKs electricity, predominantly via Drax power 
station in Selby.  Drax is one of the UK’s largest energy producers and is committed to 
helping to reduce carbon emissions, displacing more coal off the system and providing 
 Electical Connection PDAS  
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
7 
 
additional system support to plug the gaps created by intermittent renewables and boost 
security of supply.  
1.5.3 
Drax acquired APL from Watt Power Limited (Watt Power) in 2016. Stag Energy 
Development Company Ltd (Stag Energy) previously provided management services to 
Watt Power in relation to APL. Stag Energy continues to provide resources to APL through 
a management services agreement. Stag Energy was founded in 2002 and the company 
draws on a depth of experience within a team that has created and delivered over 10,000 
MW of power generation and related infrastructure projects across the globe, of which 
2,500 MW has been delivered in the UK. 
1.5.4 
APL is committed to the development of assets to support the UK Government’s drive to a 
low carbon economy.  APL recognises the need to balance commercial issues with the 
environmental benefits and concerns relating to energy projects and believes this balance 
can be responsibly delivered. The Electrical Connection as part of the Project will be 
designed and developed to high quality, safety, and environmental standards. 
1.5.5 
Further 
information 
on 
the 
companies 
referred 
to 
above 
is 
provided 
at 
www.abergellipower.co.uk or www.drax.com. 
 
Purpose and Structure of this Statement 
1.6
1.6.1 
This document includes a Design Access Statement (DAS) as well as a planning 
statement, collectively known as a PDAS. A DAS is a document which explains how the 
objectives of good design have been considered from the outset of the development 
process and how the objectives of good design have been used to inform this.  Paragraph 
4.11.14 of PPW states that a DAS should include an integrated and inclusive approach to 
sustainable design, proportionate to the scale and type of development proposal.  They 
should be ‘living’ documents dealing with all relevant aspects of design throughout the 
process and the life of the development, clearly stating the comprehensive design 
principles and concepts adopted and include illustrative material in plan elevation and 
section where relevant.  
1.6.2 
The DCfW guidance on the preparation of DAS documents states that a DAS should:  
 
Demonstrate a good understanding of the site, context and brief;  
 
Demonstrate that the proposal meets local authority and Welsh Government design 
quality and planning policy objectives;  
 
Communicate and explain design ideas;  
 
Communicate how the proposal contributes to placemaking; and  
 
Speed up the decision making process.  
1.6.3 
In line with the guidance, this PDAS aims to explain the design concept of the Electrical 
Connection in relation to:  
 
Character;  
 
Access;  
 
Movement;  
 
Environmental sustainability;  
 
Community safety; and  
 Electical Connection PDAS  
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
8 
 
 
Response to planning policy.  
1.6.4 
The PDAS acts as the primary reference document for an explanation of the planning 
issues pertinent to the Electrical Connection, with regard to the relevant National Policy 
Statements and other important and relevant matters. The PDAS explains how the 
Electrical Connection complies with the relevant policy considerations, including national 
planning policy and the development plan. 
1.6.5 
A number of other documents in the Application present design features or mitigation that 
address relevant planning issues. Where relevant, the PDAS cross-refers to these 
documents to provide further explanation. 
1.6.6 
The PDAS is structured to include: 
 
Section 2 describes the Electrical Connection Site; 
 
Section 3 describes the Electrical Connection; 
 
Section 4 outlines the approach to design; 
 
Section 5 considers relevant planning policy and compliance with policy by the Electrical 
Connection; and 
 
Section 6 presents the conclusions of this PDAS. 
 
 
 Electical Connection PDAS  
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
9 
 
2. 
Site and Surroundings 
 
Electrical Connection Location 
2.1
2.1.1 
The Electrical Connection (see Figure 1) is located on open agricultural land approximately 
2 kilometres (km) north of Junction 46 on the M4, approximately 3 km to the north of the 
city of Swansea, 1 km southeast of Felindre and 1.4 km north of Llangyfelach. The current 
land use is improved grazing for sheep and horses on poor quality agricultural land 
(Agricultural Land Classification Grade 4).   The application area extends to 7.1 ha.   
2.1.2 
The western extent of the Electrical Connection encompasses parts of the Swansea North 
Substation (‘Substation’) (comprising a 400 kilovolt (kV) and 132 kV substation) and the 
existing access road leading to the Substation and Felindre Gas Compressor Station from 
the B4489. There are no residential dwellings located along the Electrical Connection.    
2.1.3 
Ground levels vary from approximately 85 m above ordnance datum (AOD) at the highest 
point to the east and approximately 80 m AOD along the southern extent, with ground 
levels generally falling in a southerly and south easterly direction. The CCS Unitary 
Development Plan (UDP) Proposals Map (Ref. 2.1) identifies mineral deposits within the 
Site including coal and sand and aggregates. There is a groundwater body below the 
Electrical Connection of poor current and projected Water Framework Directive (Ref. 2.2) 
status.   
2.1.4 
The Electrical Connection coincides with an area classified as Ancient Woodland as the 
cable route enters the Substation. This is part of a wider area of Ancient Woodland 
surrounding the Substation and Felindre Gas Compressor Station, and the existing access 
road leading to these facilities from the B4489. The woodland is also partially within the 
Lletty-Morfil Site of Nature Conservation Interest (SINC) (no. 106), which is adjacent to the 
Site to the north.  
2.1.5 
The Electrical Connection crosses two drainage ditches that discharge into the Afon Llan. 
The Afon Llan links with the Afon Lliw and the River Loughor, which discharges into 
Carmarthen Bay through Bury Inlet, 7 km west of the Abergelli Power Station Site. 
Carmarthen bay and estuaries is designated as a Special Area of Conservation (SAC) and 
Bury Inlet is designated as a Special Protection Area (SPA), Site of Special Scientific 
Interest (SSSI) and as a wetland of international importance under the Ramsar 
Convention. There are no Main Rivers within the boundary of the Electrical Connection.  
 
Surrounding Area 
2.2
2.2.1 
The area surrounding the Electrical Connection is, at present, predominantly rural in 
character, although there is the Felindre Park and Share facility to the south and a 
substantial amount of utility infrastructure in the area, some of which the Electrical 
Connection will cross. 
2.2.2 
The Electrical Connection crosses underground utilities and overhead lines which lead to 
and from the Substation. The Felindre Water Treatment Works is located to the northwest, 
while the Cefn Betingau Solar Park and Abergelli Solar Farm are located to the east of the 
Electrical Connection. A further three solar parks are built in the vicinity; Lletty-Morfil Solar 
Farm, Brynwhilach Solar Park and Gelliwern Isaf Solar Park. 
 Electical Connection PDAS  
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
10 
 
2.2.3 
Other features of the area include public footpaths, bridleways and tracks that link the 
Electrical Connection Site to the wider area. Of particular note is PRoW LC117 which 
crosses the Electrical Connection at its western end. There are a number of residential 
properties between 600 m and 875 m from the Electrical Connection. These include Cefn-
betingau to the east, Feline Wen Farm and Llwynhelig to the south east, Maes-eglwys to 
the south, and Lletty-Morfil Farm to the west and Abergelli Farm to the north-west.  
2.2.4 
There is a paintball activity centre located to the west of the Electrical Connection off the 
B4489. Other tourist attractions and resources include the Cwm Clydach Nature Reserve 
woodland and nature reserve at Clydach, 3 km east of the Electrical Connection and the 
National Cycle Route 43, which passes through Clydach on route to Swansea from Builth 
Wells. 
2.2.5 
In addition to the Lletty-Morfil SINC, there is another SINC, Rhos Fawr (no.316), 1km north 
of the Electrical Connection across the Rhyd-Y-Pandy road. The Rhyd-Y-Pandy SINC (no. 
315) is 850 m to the north east and Waun Garn Wen SINC (no. 105) 400 m to the north.  
There is also a Wildlife Trust Reserve (Coed Barcud) to the north east and an area of 
Ancient Woodland 150 m to the north.  The Mawr Uplands Special Landscape Area (SLA) 
is located within 5 km of the Electrical Connection, extending from the north-west round to 
the east. 
 
Planning History 
2.3
2.3.1 
Abergelli Farm has previously been subject to a series of planning applications for mineral 
extraction, an electricity generation facility, inert landfill and other commercial activities.  
2.3.2 
Swansea City Waste Disposal Company Ltd. gained planning permission for the 
excavation and removal of inert material from a landfill site and restoration at Abergelli 
Farm in February 2003 (CCS Ref: 2002/0312), approximately 100m to the north of the 
Electrical Connection Site. An application to amend Condition 1 of this consent to allow the 
excavation and removal of inert material until 31st December 2010 (2007/0907) was 
submitted in December 2007, however the application was undetermined and the works 
have ceased. 
2.3.3 
In May 2003, planning permission was granted for the change of use of land at Abergelli 
Farm from agricultural use to a horse racing training/facility ground (CCS Ref: 2003/0561), 
adjacent to the west of the Electrical Connection Site. Subsequently, CCS granted outline 
planning permission at this site for the construction of a stable block in August 2004 (CCS 
Ref: 2004/0415) and for the construction of two detached dwelling houses to provide Horse 
Trainers and Stable Hands accommodation (CCS Ref: 2004/0329). This permission has 
been implemented and remains operational. 
2.3.4 
Abergelli Glas Ltd gained planning permission for a 10 MW solar farm, inverter substations 
and 2.4 m high fencing at land at Abergelli Farm, adjacent to the north-east of the Electrical 
Connection Site in May 2013 (CCS Ref: 2013/0135). This consent has since been the 
subject to a number of Non-Material Amendment (NMA) applications. An NMA was first 
submitted to reduce the number of buildings, solar panels, height of fence, height of 
framework and to omit the met mast (CCS Ref: 2014/1313/NMA), and was granted 
permission on 28/10/2014. A subsequent application was submitted in September 2014 
(2014/1335/DOC) seeking to discharge condition 5 of permission 2013/0135. The 
application was granted in December 2014. The consent for the solar farm has been 
implemented and the solar farm is operational. 
 Electical Connection PDAS  
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
11 
 
2.3.5 
In October 2015, planning permission was refused for an “Emergency standby electricity 
generation facility comprising: modern modular diesel generator units (up to 14 in total), 
transformers, diesel storage tanks, boundary treatment including acoustic screening, 
access improvements and associated works” at land adjacent to the west of the Electrical 
Connection Site (CCS Ref: 2015/1716). The application was refused on the basis that, in 
the Council’s view, the positive benefits of the development would not outweigh the visual 
harm to the countryside caused by it. 
 
Environmental Effects 
2.4
a) 
Potential Effects 
2.4.1 
The Electrical Connection Environmental Report outlines the environmental designations 
and potential environmental effects from the Electrical Connection, including effects on: 
 
Ecology; 
 
Flood Risk and Water Quality  
 
Air Quality; 
 
Noise; 
 
Landscape and Visual; 
 
Historic Environment; 
 
Traffic, Transport and Access; and 
 
Geology and Ground Conditions. 
 
b) 
Mitigation  
2.4.2 
Mitigation has been identified within the EIA carried out for the Project which is applicable 
to the Electrical Connection. This mitigation includes both embedded mitigation (mitigation 
inherent in to the design of the Project and also specifically to the Electrical Connection), or 
additional mitigation (which is required to mitigate any residual adverse effects of the 
Project). This is presented in Appendix 2.1 of the Electrical Connection Environmental 
Report.  
 
 
 Electical Connection PDAS  
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
12 
 
3. 
The Electrical Connection   
 
Introduction 
3.1
3.1.1 
The Electrical Connection will enable power to be exported from the Abergelli Power 
Station to the National Grid Electricity Transmission System (NETS). The connection will 
be approximately 900 m in length. It will consist of a 400 kilovolt (kV) underground cable to 
the Substation and associated works inside the Substation to connect to a gas-insulated 
switchgear (GIS) bay. The GIS bay will be consented and owned by National Grid with APL 
providing and installing a 400 kV cable for termination into the GIS bay as well as installing 
feeder protection and settlement metering for the GIS Bay. 
3.1.2 
The Substation is proposed to be extended by National Grid at the eastern end of the 
building to house the GIS bay. National Grid is responsible for securing any necessary 
planning permissions for this work and therefore this is not considered as part of this 
project description or application. 
3.1.3 
The Electrical Connection route (see Figure 1: Site Location and Layout Plan) will run 
immediately adjacent to the alignment of the new section of Access Road for the Abergelli 
Power Project. At the eastern extent, the Electrical Connection leaves the Abergelli Power 
Project Generating Equipment Site, passing underground through open land to the east 
and southeast of the National Grid Gas Transmission System. The route crosses into 
National Grid’s land to the east of tower 4YW251 heading towards the Substation. Once 
within National Grid’s land the Electrical Connection turns to the north-west to run outside 
the Substation and parallel with the Substation fence line. The Electrical Connection then 
turns into the Substation close to the northern corner. 
3.1.4 
The Electrical Connection passes twice under one 400 kV overhead lattice tower mounted 
transmission line and once under one wooden pole mounted 11 kV overhead distribution 
line. The route crosses two ditches and a Local Transmission System pipeline within the 
field to the east of tower 4YW251. The Electrical Connection will be drilled (for example 
using drilling techniques such as Horizontal Directional Drill (HDD)) under the Water Main 
and Oil Pipeline with at least 2 m clearance from the underside of the Water Main. 
a) Construction 
3.1.5 
The Electrical Connection will be constructed within the curtilage of the new section of 
Access Road within a 5 m working width adjacent to the road. A cable duct will be installed 
adjacent to the new section of Access Road to allow the cable to be pulled through at a 
later date. Short sections of open cut trench will be required at either end of the cable route 
where it does not coincide with the Access Road. The installation of the cable within the 
Substation is anticipated to be in cable ducts, although National Grid has recently started 
using direct buried cables within the Substation.  
3.1.6 
The Electrical Connection will require temporary bridges to the south of the Generating 
Equipment Site (for example a temporary Bailey Bridge) over the Water Main and Oil 
Pipeline during the construction phase to enable access from the new section of Access 
Road and Laydown Area to the Generating Equipment Site. The temporary Bailey Bridge 
will be approximately 5 m in height from the anchor points on the existing ground level. 
 
 
 Electical Connection PDAS  
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
13 
 
b) Operation and Maintenance  
3.1.7 
No regular maintenance is anticipated to be carried out on the underground electrical 
cable. Maintenance of the electrical cable will be limited to repair in the event of a fault in 
the cable, in which case the cable will be isolated for repair in line with industry good 
practice.  
3.1.8 
The electrical equipment would be subject to periodic inspection. To perform such 
inspections, pedestrian access is adequate.   
3.1.9 
The route would be regularly checked to ensure that there are no excavation or 
construction works in the direct vicinity of the cables, that mounds of soil are not deposited 
above the cables and that trees are not planted above the cables; this should normally 
require little more than a drive past.  
3.1.10 
In addition, periodic inspection of any above ground equipment associated with the cable 
system would be required. The above ground equipment would include cable terminations, 
and structures, and bonding system link housings; this would require access to the 
equipment. In some case dirt and debris can deposit on cable termination insulators which 
may therefore require cleaning. It is also recommended that the integrity of the cable 
oversheath be tested at least once every two to three years; this would require access to 
the cable terminations and the bonding system link housings. In the event that the 
oversheath is found degraded or damaged then a repair may be required which would 
necessitate some excavation along the cable route (in most cases, oversheath damage 
results from the actions of third parties).  
c) Decommissioning  
3.1.11 
It is assumed that the Electrical Connection would be decommissioned after 25 years, 
which is the design life of the Power Generation Plant. However, it is important to note that 
elements of the Connection (such as the GIS bay) would be owned and operated by 
National Grid. In accordance with its statutory duties, National Grid may use these assets 
in the future as part of its wider network.   
3.1.12 
As such, though the date of decommissioning of some elements of the Electrical 
Connection cannot be certain, a 25 year working assumption has been used to allow for a 
reasonable assessment of decommissioning effects in this Report.   
3.1.13 
Finally, it is assumed that elements of the Electrical Connection may be left in situ at the 
point of decommissioning, as this approach is likely to cause less environmental effects 
than removal.   
 
The Need for the Electrical Connection 
3.2
3.2.1 
The urgent need for energy generation, including gas fired generating stations and gas 
fired peaking plants, is set out within NPS EN-1, the Gas Generation Strategy (DECC, 
2012), the National Infrastructure Plan (HM Treasury, 2014) and Energy Wales – a Low 
Carbon Transition (2012). In the Annual Energy Statement (AES) (latest version published 
in 2014), the Department of Energy and Climate Change (DECC) (now SoS for BEIS) 
reiterated the need to build new power generation infrastructure and acknowledged the 
need for gas to feature strongly in the energy mix. The Project (including the Electrical 
Connection) would contribute materially to the short and medium term need for flexible, 
reliable, peak load power generation and facilitate the transition to a low carbon economy. 
 Electical Connection PDAS  
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
14 
 
The chosen technology for a peaking plant would help to ‘balance out’ the grid at times of 
peak electricity demand and help to support the grid at times when intermittent renewable 
sources cannot generate electricity. The construction and operation of the Project would 
benefit the local economy. It is projected that the Project will deliver positive socio-
economic impacts on the labour market at the construction and decommissioning phases 
through the creation of local jobs and contribution to Gross Value Added (GVA). 
3.2.2 
It is further projected that should the construction, decommissioning or operation occur 
simultaneously with any other projects in the area, that this would provide a positive 
stimulus to the local economy through the provision of construction-related training and 
employment opportunities, supply chain linkages and demand for accommodation, food 
and drink services. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Electical Connection PDAS  
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
15 
 
4. 
Design Analysis 
 
Introduction 
4.1
4.1.1 
TAN 12 and the DCfW guidance on DAS documents promote the key objectives of good 
design under the following headings: 
 
Character; 
 
Access; 
 
Movement; 
 
Environmental sustainability; 
 
Community safety; 
 
Other considerations; and 
 
Response to planning policy. 
4.1.2 
The way in which each key objective has been considered and addressed in the design of 
the scheme is outlined below. 
 
Character 
4.2
4.2.1 
The Electrical Connection route will run immediately adjacent to the alignment of the new 
section of Access Road. The construction activity and plant associated with the Electrical 
Connection alone will only result in localised and limited effects to the landscape character 
resulting in a small loss of woodland and hedgerow planting, which will not affect the 
integrity or key characteristics of the landscape. 
 
Access and Movement 
4.3
4.3.1 
The Electrical Connection will cross an existing PRoW LC117. During construction, 
temporary closure(s) of all or part of the footpath and restriction of the use of the footpath 
may be required in order to ensure user safety.  Details of how these temporary 
arrangements will be managed will be supplied in supporting management plans. It is not 
envisaged that the PRoW will be stopped up. 
4.3.2 
During operation, the Electrical Connection will not be manned nor require routine 
maintenance.  
 
Environmental Sustainability 
4.4
4.4.1 
 APL has sought to employ good design at all stages of the Project’s development. APL has 
undertaken suitable studies of the local habitats, accesses, heritage features and 
landscape to enable the design to respond to place. Suitable setbacks and 
replacement/reinforcement and new planting is proposed to integrate the Project, including 
the Electrical Connection into its local ecological and landscape context and provide 
mitigation for habitat loss. 
4.4.2 
Impacts on the drainage regime of the local area will be minimised through the provision of 
ponds and other natural and semi natural features providing ecological mitigation and 
careful management of soils during construction works. Full details of ecological and 
landscape mitigation are provided in the accompanying environmental reports.  
 Electical Connection PDAS  
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
16 
 
 
Community safety 
4.5
4.5.1 
The Electrical Connection would be designed and developed to high quality, safety and 
environmental standards. Construction of the Electrical Connection would likely take place 
within a temporary fenced strip of land called the ‘working width’. The working width will 
ensure safe construction and the protection of off-site receptors.  
 
Other considerations 
4.6
4.6.1 
Full details of embedded mitigation are provided in the accompanying environmental 
reports.  
 
Response to planning policy 
4.7
4.7.1 
The response to planning policy is considered in Section 5 of this PDAS. 
 
 
 Electical Connection PDAS  
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
17 
 
5. 
Planning Policy Context 
 
Introduction 
5.1
5.1.1 
This section of the Planning Statement provides a summary of the relevant planning policy 
framework and an assessment of compliance with planning policy by the Electrical 
Connection.  
 
National Planning Policy 
5.2
5.2.1 
The following policy/guidance documents prepared at the national (Welsh Government) 
level are of relevance to the determination of the application. 
a) Wales Spatial Plan 
5.2.2 
People, Places, Futures the Wales Spatial Plan (WSP) Update 2008 was approved by the 
National Assembly for Wales in July 2008. The Wales Spatial Plan aims to deliver 
sustainable development through its area strategies in the context of the Welsh 
Government’s Sustainable Development Scheme and sets out cross-cutting national 
spatial priorities. The Spatial Plan area which the Electrical Connection Site falls under is 
“Swansea Bay – Waterfront and Western Valleys”. 
5.2.3 
Chapter 11 recognises that the economy in Wales has a spatial dimension. Paragraph 11.1 
recognises that while some areas adjoining the English border have economic 
performance characteristics fairly similar to the UK average, the more western areas and 
the former coal-mining areas lag behind. 
5.2.4 
Paragraph 11.6 acknowledges the need to take a joint approach with local authorities, 
travel consortia, and others to tackling regional infrastructure problems on issues of 
housing, transport, water, sewerage, energy, waste and ICT.  
5.2.5 
Chapter 20 relates specifically to the area of “Swansea Bay – Waterfront and Western 
Valleys” where the Electrical Connection Site is located. Paragraph 20.1 sets out a number 
of key priorities for the region, including: “improving accessibility”, “developing a cutting 
edge knowledge economy”, “reducing economic inactivity” and “ensuring that 
environmental protection and enhancement are fully integrated”. 
5.2.6 
The Electrical Connection would facilitate low carbon generation and associated 
employment generation. Accordingly, the Electrical Connection is considered to support the 
objectives of the WSP. 
b) Planning Policy Wales 9th Edition, November 2016 
5.2.7 
Planning Policy Wales (PPW) forms the overarching national planning policy document for 
Wales and sets out the land use planning policies of the Welsh Government. It is 
supplemented by a series of Technical Advice Notes (TANs). PPW provides guidance on a 
range of land use planning matters.  
5.2.8 
PPW Chapter 4, ‘Planning for Sustainability’, sets out the principles and objectives 
underpinning the Welsh Government’s approach to planning policy for sustainable 
development. 
 Electical Connection PDAS  
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
18 
 
5.2.9 
PPW paragraph 4.2.2 highlights that the planning system provides for a presumption in 
favour of sustainable development to ensure that social, economic and environmental 
issues are balanced and integrated. PPW Section 4.4 outlines the objectives for the 
planning system which reflect the Welsh Government’s view for sustainable development 
and the outcomes they seek to deliver across Wales. This includes playing an appropriate 
role in securing the provision of infrastructure to form the physical basis for sustainable 
communities (including energy supplies and distribution networks, promoting good 
environmental management and best environmental practice, promoting a low carbon 
economy and social enterprises, contributing to the protection and improvement of the 
environment, so as to improve the quality of life, and protect local and global ecosystems. 
5.2.10 
PPW Chapter 5 ‘Conserving and Improving Natural Heritage and the Coast’ sets out the 
Welsh Government’s overarching advice on the conservation of biodiversity and the coast 
in a planning context. The chapter sets out objectives for conservation that should be 
delivered via the planning process. It includes guidance on integrating the requirements of 
development and conservation, and highlights existing measures for biodiversity 
conservation in Wales. 
5.2.11 
For planning purposes, Chapter 7 of PPW defines economic development as development 
of land and buildings for activities that generate wealth, jobs and incomes. PPW paragraph 
7.1.1 advises that economic land uses include the traditional employment uses (Class B in 
the Use Classes Order) as well as retail, tourism and public services. It is stated in 
paragraph 7.1.1 that the construction and energy sectors are important to the economy 
and sensitive to planning policies. 
5.2.12 
Chapter 12 of PPW ‘Infrastructure and Services’ emphasises the importance of 
infrastructure projects to Wales: “Adequate and efficient infrastructure, including services 
such as education and health facilities along with water supply, sewers, waste 
management, electricity and gas (the utilities) and telecommunications, is crucial for the 
economic, social and environmental sustainability of all parts of Wales” (paragraph. 
12.1.1). The Welsh Government aims to secure the environmental and telecommunications 
infrastructure necessary to meet sustainable development objectives, which are listed in 
paragraph 12.1.4 of PPW. The objectives considered to be relevant for the purposes of the 
Electrical Connection are listed as follows:  
 
To promote the generation and use of energy from renewable and low carbon energy 
sources at all scales and promote energy efficiency, especially as a means to secure 
zero or low carbon developments and to tackle the causes of climate change; to 
promote an integrated approach to the provision and renewal of environmental and 
telecommunications infrastructure; 
 
To ensure that environmental and telecommunications infrastructure is provided in 
such a way as to enable sustainable development objectives to be met, avoiding 
adverse impacts on the environment (including the natural and historic environment), 
local communities and health; 
 
To ensure that in considering environmental and telecommunications infrastructure 
account is taken of the impacts of climate change in the location, design, build, 
operation and, where appropriate, the decommissioning of new infrastructure; and 
 
To ensure that the vulnerability of infrastructure to severe weather events is minimised 
and that infrastructure is designed to cope with higher average temperatures and 
increasing risk of storm surges, drought and flooding. 
 Electical Connection PDAS  
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
19 
 
5.2.13 
Paragraph 12.8.6 of PPW outlines that it is the Welsh Government’s aim to, “secure an 
appropriate mix of energy provision for Wales which maximises benefits to our economy 
and communities, whilst minimising potential environmental and social impacts. This forms 
part of the Welsh Government’s aim to secure the strongest economic development 
policies to underpin growth and prosperity in Wales recognising the importance of clean 
energy and the efficient use of natural resources, both as an economic driver and a 
commitment to sustainable development secure an appropriate energy mix for Wales whilst 
avoiding, and where possible minimising, environmental, social and economic impacts”. 
5.2.14 
For the purposes of planning policy, paragraph 12.8.7 of PPW defines “low carbon energy” 
as the term used to cover technologies that are energy efficient (but does not include 
nuclear). PPW figure 12.2 sets out the scales of development, for planning purposes, for 
low carbon and renewable energy projects. It acknowledges that an energy project is 
deemed to be “strategic” when it exceeds a threshold of 50 MW for all technologies other 
than onshore wind. 
5.2.15 
PPW Chapter 13 ‘Minimising and Managing Environmental Risks and Pollution’ is 
concerned with maximising environmental protection for people, natural and cultural 
resources, property and infrastructure; and preventing or managing pollution and 
promoting good environmental practice (paragraph 13.1.2). 
c) Technical Advice Notes 
5.2.16 
TAN 12 ‘Design’ (2016) sets out the objectives of good design and aims to encourage good 
design in all aspects of development, stating that: “The way which development relates to 
its urban or rural landscape context is critical to its success”. The aim should be to achieve 
good design solutions, which maximise the natural landscape assets and minimise 
environmental impact on the landscape. It is particularly important that proposals to amend 
or create new landscape are not considered as an afterthought and that the long-term 
impact of development on the landscape is fully understood. 
5.2.17 
TAN 5 ‘Nature conservation and Planning’ (2009) is concerned with the protection of 
statutorily designated site and habitats, the conservation of protected and priority species; 
and protecting and enhancing biodiversity and nature conservation in the wider countryside 
within Wales. 
5.2.18 
TAN 15 ‘Development and Flood Risk’ (2004), provides a precautionary framework to guide 
planning decisions within which risks arising from both river and coastal flooding, and from 
additional run-off from development in any location, can be assessed.  
5.2.19 TAN 11 ‘Noise’ (1997), which provides advice on how the planning system can be used to 
minimise the adverse impact of noise without placing unreasonable restrictions on 
development or adding unduly to the costs and administrative burdens of business. It 
outlines some of the main considerations which LPAs should take into account in 
determining planning applications for development which will either generate noise or be 
exposed to existing noise sources. 
5.2.20 
TAN 18 ‘Transport’ (2007) provides guidance on issues relating to sustainable development 
through transport. TAN 18 describes how to integrate land use and transport planning and 
explains how transport impacts should be assessed and mitigated. 
5.2.21 
TAN 23 ‘Economic Development’ (2014) refers to the concept of ”larger than local 
planning”, which advises that market forces do not respect local authority boundaries and 
 Electical Connection PDAS  
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
20 
 
therefore the planning system should ensure that it steers development to the most 
efficient and sustainable locations. This means that strategic planning for economic 
development is essential. Paragraph 2.1.1 addresses the need to weigh economic benefits 
and states that it should not be assumed that economic objectives are necessarily in 
conflict with social and environmental objectives. The TAN advises that the planning 
system should positively and imaginatively seek win-win outcomes. 
d) Summary of Compliance with National Planning Policy 
5.2.22 
The Electrical Connection will facilitate the provision of low carbon energy generation and 
positive economic benefits and employment generation, whilst demonstrating high-quality 
design and mitigating potential environmental impacts as described in this PDAS. It seeks 
to avoid significant harm to biodiversity and geological conservation interests and 
incorporates a number of embedded mitigation measures in its design and construction. 
There would be no long term impact on any mineral resources in the area during the 
operation of the Electrical Connection. Wherever practicable, possible waste will be 
avoided; however, where necessary, waste will be managed in accordance with the waste 
hierarchy. Overall, it is considered that the Electrical Connection is in accordance with 
PPW and its accompanying TANs. 
 
Local Planning Policy 
5.3
a) The Development Plan 
i. 
City and County of Swansea Unitary Development Plan (Adopted November 
2008) 
5.3.1 
The CCS Unitary Development Plan Document (UDP) was adopted in November 2008 and 
comprises the Development Plan for the area.   
ii. UDP Proposals Map & Key Site-Specific Policies 
5.3.2 
As shown on the UDP Proposals Map (Figure 3), the Electrical Connection Site is located 
on land identified as “Coal” and “Sand and Aggregates”, where UDP Policies R2 and R4 
respectively apply. Policy R2 states that development proposals that would affect the 
working of known potential resources will have to be accompanied by a full assessment of 
the potential resource and the impact of the proposal in terms of sterilising the resource. 
Similarly, Policy R4 states that development proposals that would affect the working of 
known potential mineral resources will have to be accompanied by a full assessment of the 
potential mineral resource and the impact of the proposal in terms of sterilising the 
resource. 
5.3.3 
The Electrical Connection Site is also located adjacent to the south of a Hazardous 
Installation Consultation Zone and approximately 300 m to the north of a Notified High 
Pressure Mains Buffer, where UDP Policy EV41 applies. Policy EV41 states that 
development of land in the vicinity of existing hazardous installations will not be permitted if 
there would be a significant risk to life or health. 
5.3.4 
Land to the east of the Electrical Connection Site, and not affected by the Project, is land 
identified as having known potential for “Crushed Rock” mineral resources, where UDP 
Policy R5 applies. Policy R5 states that development proposals that would affect the 
working of known potential mineral resources will have to be accompanied by a full 
 Electical Connection PDAS  
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
21 
 
assessment of the potential mineral resource and the impact of the proposal in terms of 
sterilising the resource. 
Figure 3: Extract from the UDP Proposals Map and Legend (Approximate centre of the site indicated in 
red) 
 
 
iii. Development Proposals in the Surrounding Area 
5.3.5 
Policy EC1 allocates 190 ha of employment land at Felindre Strategic Business Park, 
located approximately 900 m to the south-west of the Electrical Connection Site, in order to 
meet the growth needs of the local economy. Policy HC1 allocates land at Tircoed, 
Penllergaer, located approximately 2 km to the south-west of the Electrical Connection 
Site, for the delivery of 84 units. 
 Electical Connection PDAS  
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
22 
 
iv. Other Relevant UDP Policies 
5.3.6 
The UDP Written Statement sets out the broad vision and strategy for development and 
conservation together with more detailed policies and development proposals. In addition 
to the site-specific policies set out above, the following UDP policies are also considered to 
be relevant. 
5.3.7 
The vision for the UDP is for “A sustainable approach to the development of a prosperous 
region focused on a cosmopolitan and multi-cultural City and County, which capitalises on 
its waterfront location. The strategy will be based on the conservation of the best we have, 
whilst making effective provision for the promotion of employment, good housing, 
shopping, leisure, tourism, community and education facilities in a safe, accessible, 
innovatively designed, healthy, ecologically rich and visually attractive environment.” 
5.3.8 
Strategic Policy SP1 states that “sustainable development will be pursued as an integral 
principle of the planning and development process”. 
5.3.9 
Strategic Policy SP2 states that “the countryside will be protected and conserved…” 
Strategic Policy SP2 also states that the natural, built, and cultural heritage of the County 
will be protected and enhanced to safeguard from materially harmful development. 
5.3.10 
Policy SP10 states that “Mineral resources will be conserved as far as possible. Mineral 
development will be limited to that which is essential for economic growth, with associated 
environmental disturbance kept to a minimum. Restoration and aftercare will be required to 
be of a high quality. Within areas of significant environmental sensitivity, mineral 
development will be resisted.” 
5.3.11 
Strategic Policy SP11 states that: “the upgrading of infrastructure provision and the 
generation of energy from renewable resources to meet the needs of existing and new 
development will be favoured, provided that environmental impact is kept to a minimum”. 
Strategic Policy SP12 states that the Council will encourage development that makes 
“efficient use of resources and energy”. 
5.3.12 
Policy EV1 states that new development should accord with a number of objectives of 
“good design. Policy EV2 states that new development should have regard to the physical 
character and topography of the site and its surroundings.  
5.3.13 
Policy EV3 states that proposals for new development will be required to, “provide access 
and facilities for all” and “contribute to a high quality public realm”. Policy EV6 states that 
the Council will seek to “protect, preserve and enhance” Scheduled Ancient Monuments 
(SAMs) and their settings, and unscheduled archaeological site and monuments and their 
settings. Where proposals affect sites and areas of archaeological potential, applicants are 
required to undertake an assessment of the impact of development and set out measures 
to preserve, enhance and record features of archaeological interest. Whilst there are some 
SAMs located within the 5 km study area, there are none within the Electrical Connection 
Site. 
5.3.14 
Policy EV12 states that: “The character of lanes and public paths that contribute to the 
amenity, natural and historic qualities of an area will be protected… In rural areas, the 
design of any necessary works should be appropriate to the character of the area and 
should not detract from the landscape or suburbanise the area.” 
 Electical Connection PDAS  
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
23 
 
5.3.15 
Policy EV21 states that non-residential development in the countryside will only be 
permitted in certain circumstances. Part (v) of the policy lists development essential for 
communications, telecommunications, other forms of utility service provision, minerals or 
renewable energy generation as an exceptional circumstance. 
5.3.16 
Policy EV22 states that the countryside will be “conserved and enhanced for the sake of its 
natural heritage, natural resources, historic and cultural, environment and agricultural and 
recreational value” through the control of development and practical management and 
improvement measures. 
5.3.17 
Policy EV30 states that encouragement will be given to the “protection and improved 
management of woodlands, trees and hedgerows which are important for their visual 
amenity, historic environment, natural heritage and/or recreation value.”  Priority will be 
given to: “(i) protecting the remaining areas of ancient semi natural woodland and planted 
ancient woodland sites; (ii) promoting new planting with species appropriate to the 
location…; and (iii) ensuring that protection of amenity interests is achieved where 
management involves commercial felling and replanting.” 
5.3.18 
Policy EV38 states that development proposals on land where there is a risk from 
contamination or landfill gas will not be permitted unless it can be demonstrated that 
“measures can be taken to satisfactorily overcome any danger to life, health, property, 
controlled waters, or the natural and historic environment.” 
5.3.19 
Policy EV40 states that development proposals will not be permitted that would “cause or 
result in significant harm to health, local amenity, natural heritage, the historic environment 
or landscape character because of significant levels of air, noise or light pollution.” 
5.3.20 
Policy EC1 allocates 190 ha of employment land at Felindre Strategic Business Park, 
located approximately 1.5 km to the south-west of the Electrical Connection Site, in order 
to meet the growth needs of the local economy. Policy HC1 allocates land at Tircoed, 
Penllergaer, located approximately 2.5 km to the south-west of the Electrical Connection 
Site, for the delivery of 84 units. 
5.3.21 
Policy EC13 states that development that would result in the loss of the best and most 
versatile agricultural land will not normally be permitted. The application site comprises 
Grade 4 agricultural land and therefore best and most versatile land will not be affected by 
the Electrical Connection. 
5.3.22 
Policy R16 states that “proposals for major new developments will be required to 
incorporate adequate and effective waste management facilities.” 
5.3.23 
Policy AS2 states that new developments should be designed to “allow for the safe, 
efficient and non-intrusive movement of vehicles”.  In addition, the means of access to new 
developments should be designed to ensure that impacts on the natural, historic and built 
environment and local communities are minimised. 
5.3.24 
Policy AS3 states that “development that adversely affects the safety, enjoyment and 
convenient use of a Public Right of Way (PROW) will only be permitted where an 
acceptable alternative route is identified.” 
5.3.25 
Policy AS10 requires new developments to “incorporate appropriate traffic management 
measures to mitigate significant adverse impacts that would otherwise be caused by traffic 
movements.” 
 Electical Connection PDAS  
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
24 
 
5.4 
Summary of Compliance with the Development Plan
5.4.1 
The area is demonstrably suitable for power generation infrastructure and its location
minimises the length of connection to the national gas networks and therefore construction
impacts. The proposed development is supported by Policies SP11 and SP12 regarding
infrastructure and energy generation and is in accordance with Policy EV21
5.4.2 
The coal, sand and gravels reserves are considered to be of minimal economic use. While
there will be permanent sterilisation of the reserves from the Electrical Connection, it is
considered that a relatively small area of the reserves will be affected compared to the full
extent available in the area. As a result, there will be no long term impacts on the mineral
resource in the area. It is understood that there are no plans for mineral extraction within
the vicinity of the site and the Electrical Connection would not be in conflict in this re-
gard. As such the proposals are considered to be compliant with the provisions of UDP 
Policies R2, R4, R5 and SP10. The Electrical Connection also incorporates an ap-
propriate waste management plan in accordance with Policy R16.
5.4.3 
The Electrical Connection Site is located adjacent to the south of a Hazardous Installation
Consultation Zone and near to a Notified High Pressure Mains Buffer. However, it is
expected that no significant effects would occur in respect of public health, in accordance
with UDP Policy EV41. The Electrical Connection would not impact on nearby strategic
land allocations at EC1 and H1.
5.4.4 
With regard to policies for sustainable development, the countryside, environmental
protection and transport (Policies SP1, SP2, SP3, EV1, 2, 3, 6, 22, 30, 40, EC13, AS2,
AS3 and AS10), the Electrical Connection:
 
Minimises its land take so far as practicable;
 
No best and most versatile land will be affected;
 
Is located away from homes and in an area of countryside that contains substantial
amounts of energy infrastructure already;
 
Has been integrated into that landscape through careful siting, layout, design and
landscape mitigation commitments;
 
Detailed mitigation measures are proposed;
 
No heritage assets would be adversely affected;
 
Would be decommissioned at the end of its design life and the landscape restored;
 
No adverse impacts in terms of noise or air pollution are anticipated;
 
The public right of way will not be affected during the operation of the Electrical
Connection and a temporary closure only may be required during construction; and
 
Any impacts in respect of transport are not significant.
5.4.5 
The Electrical Connection is in general compliance with relevant UDP policies. Overall, the
Electrical Connection would facilitate low carbon energy generation. The urgent need for
electricity generation, including associated development connections, should be accorded
substantial weight, as set out in national government guidance, national planning policy as
well as local planning policy.
 
 Electical Connection PDAS  
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
25 
 
 
Emerging Planning Policy 
5.5
a) Emerging Planning Policy Wales  
5.5.1 
The Welsh Government published a draft version of PPW, Edition 10, in February 2018. 
Consultation on the draft closed in May 2018.  
5.5.2 
Within the consultation draft Edition 10, PPW has been restructured into policy themes in 
light of the Well-being of Future Generations (Wales) Act 2015 and policy updated to reflect 
new Welsh Government strategies and policies. Draft PPW Paragraphs 1.22 – 1.24 
recognise the role of the planning system for transitioning to a low carbon economy and 
building resilience to climate impacts. Paragraph 1.22 acknowledges that “The planning 
system in Wales plays a key role in delivering clean growth and decarbonisation and is 
also crucial in building resilience to the impacts of climate change. The transition to a low 
carbon economy not only brings opportunities for clean growth and quality jobs but also 
has wider benefits of enhanced places to live and work, with clean air and water and 
improved health outcomes.” Draft PPW Paragraphs 4.99 – 4.163 summarise the Welsh 
Government’s priorities for Energy. Draft PPW paragraph 4.99 states that “The Welsh 
Government is committed to delivering the outcomes set out in our Energy Policy 
Statement Energy Wales: A Low Carbon Transition (2012). Our priorities are: 
 
Reducing the amount of energy we use in Wales; 
 
Reducing our reliance on energy generated from fossil fuels; and 
 
Actively managing the transition to a low carbon economy.” 
5.5.3 
Draft PPW paragraph 4.101 states that “Planning applications for onshore generating 
projects in Wales which have an installed generation capacity of between 10MW and 
50MW (there is no upper limit for onshore wind generating stations) are made directly to 
the Welsh Ministers.” 
5.5.4 
Draft PPW paragraph 4.102 recognises the benefits of securing energy from a mix of 
energy sources, stating that “The planning system should secure an appropriate mix of 
energy provision, which maximises benefits to our economy and communities whilst 
minimising potential environmental and social impacts.” 
5.5.5 
Draft PPW paragraphs 4.123 – 4.127 summarise the Welsh Government’s direction for 
renewable and low carbon energy. Paragraph 4.123 states that “Planning authorities 
should facilitate all forms of renewable and low carbon energy development, using up to 
date and appropriate evidence. Planning authorities should seek to ensure their area’s full 
potential for renewable and low carbon energy generation is achieved and renewable 
energy targets are met.” 
5.5.6 
Draft PPW paragraph 4.127 continues that “Planning applications for renewable and low 
carbon energy generation development, which are in accordance with development plan 
policies, should be supported.” 
5.5.7 
Draft PPW paragraphs 4.1.42 – 4.1.44 sets out the Welsh Government’s approach to 
development management and renewable and low carbon energy. Paragraph 4.142 states 
that “In determining applications for the range of renewable and low carbon energy 
technologies, planning authorities should give significant weight to the Welsh 
Government’s targets to increase renewable and low carbon energy generation, as part of 
our overall approach to tackling climate change and increasing energy security”. 
 Electical Connection PDAS  
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
26 
 
5.5.8 
The Welsh Government is currently considering the responses to the consultation on the 
Draft PPW Edition 10. The Welsh Government has advised that Edition 10 of PPW will be 
published towards the end of 2018. As the document remains in draft format and may be 
subject to change, it is not considered further in this PDAS. 
b) Emerging Wales National Development Framework (NDF) 
5.5.9 
The NDF is currently being prepared by the Planning Directorate and will set out a twenty-
year land use framework for Wales and will replace the current Wales Spatial Plan. The 
NDF will set out where nationally important growth and infrastructure is needed and how 
the planning system can deliver it. 
5.5.10 
In April 2018, the Welsh Government published the NDF Issues, Options & Preferred 
Option - Consultation Paper (April 2018). Issue B addresses ‘Climate Change, 
Decarbonisation and Energy’. The Paper states that “Our aim is to see the deployment of a 
wide range of renewable and low carbon technologies, at all scales, whilst recognising that 
gas will be a key transitional fuel.” Page 8 of Appendix A to the Issues and Options 
Consultation states: “Our aim is to see the deployment of a wide range of renewable and 
low carbon technologies, at all scales, whilst recognising that gas will be a key transitional 
fuel.” 
5.5.11 
Draft NDF Objective 3 – Climate change, Decarbonisation and Energy seeks 
“To enable the transition to a low carbon economy; to enable management of and adaption 
to the consequences of climate change; and to support decarbonisation in Wales and help 
deliver the Welsh Government’s greenhouse gas emissions and renewable energy targets” 
(Draft NDF Appendix A – Issues, page 14).  
5.5.12 
Publication of the final NDF is anticipated for September 2020 and as a result, it is not 
considered further in this PDAS. 
c) Emerging Local Planning Policy 
5.5.13 
CCS is currently in the process of preparing a new LDP, which upon adoption will replace 
the UDP as the key planning policy document for CCS up to 2025. CCS submitted the LDP 
to the Ministers of the Welsh Government for independent examination on 28th July 2017.  
Following formal acceptance on 4th August 2017, the Ministers of the Welsh Government 
appointed Inspectors to conduct the independent examination and to assess the 
soundness of the LDP.  Examination hearings commenced on 6th February 2018 and ran 
until late March 2018. 
5.5.14 
Following formal closure of the examination hearings, the inspector's report will be 
prepared and submitted to the Council with recommendations regarding the LDP.  It is 
anticipated the LDP would be formally adopted by CCS thereafter subject to the inspector’s 
recommendations.   
5.5.15 
Prior to the commencement of examination hearings, the submitted LDP is considered to 
hold some weight for decision-making purposes based on the previous stages of 
preparation and consultation (listed above).  At the closure of the examination hearings and 
following the publication of the inspector’s report, the weight to be attached to the draft 
LDP may change based upon the inspector’s recommendations.  Upon adoption, the LDP 
would replace the UDP and receive full weight for decision-making purposes. 
 Electical Connection PDAS  
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
27 
 
i. 
CCS Draft LDP Proposals Map and site-specific policies 
5.5.16 
As shown on the draft LDP Proposals Map (Figure 4), the Electrical Connection Site is 
located on land identified as safeguarded “Coal Resources” and “Sand and Gravel” 
resource, where draft LDP Policy R12 applies. Draft Policy RP 12 states that “development 
within mineral safeguarding areas that would permanently sterilise identified resources of 
aggregates and coal will only be permitted where it can be demonstrated that:  
 
The extraction of the mineral is impracticable, uneconomic or environmentally 
unacceptable;  
 
The mineral has already been extracted or can be extracted satisfactorily prior to the 
development taking place;  
 
The scale and location of the development would have no significant impact on the 
potential working of the resource; or  
 
There is an overriding need for the development.” 
5.5.17 
The site is also located within proximity of a designated Mineral Buffer Zone, where draft 
LDP Policy RP 14 applies.  Draft Policy RP 14 states that, aside from mineral extraction 
and sensitive non-mineral development, any other development proposals will be “carefully 
assessed to ensure that there would be no significant adverse effect on natural heritage, 
the amenity and well-being of neighbouring properties, or the quality and quantity of 
controlled waters.” 
5.5.18 
To the north, the Electrical Connection Site is located within proximity of a Landscape 
Protection Area, where Policy ER5 applies, and a Strategic Search Area, where Policy EU1 
applies.  Draft Policy ER 5 states that “development will not be permitted that would have a 
significant adverse effect on the character and quality of the landscape and setting of the 
County”.  Within Special Landscape Areas, including the Mawr Uplands to the north of the 
Electrical Connection Site, priority will be given to protecting, managing and enhancing the 
character and quality of the area. Draft Policy EU 1 support proposals for large scale wind 
farms and their associated infrastructure within the Strategic Search Area. 
5.5.19 
To the south, the Electrical Connection Site is located within proximity of a Strategic 
Development Area (Policy SD 1(G)) and safeguarded land at Morriston Hospital (Policy SI 
4). Draft Policy SD G seeks to allocate a new sustainable settlement at land north-west of 
M4 J46 at Llangyfelach, to the south-west of the Electrical Connection Site, for 
“comprehensive mixed use development of up to 850 homes during the Plan period, 
incorporating a mix of low-medium and high density residential, a new district centre with 
commercial units, primary school, a mix of public realm, open space and play provision, 
new community buildings, and a strategic business park.” 
5.5.20 
In addition to the proposed sustainable settlement at Llangyfelach (Policy SD G), the 
following Strategic Development Areas are within proximity of the Electrical Connection 
Site as allocated within the submitted LDP:  
 
Draft Policy SD A seeks to allocate land south of Glanffrwd Road at Pontarddulais, to 
the west of the Electrical Connection Site, for comprehensive, residential led, 
development of up to 720 homes, incorporating a primary school, leisure and 
recreation facilities, public open space and appropriate community facilities, 
employment and commercial uses; 
 
Draft Policy SD C seeks to allocate land south of A4240, Penllergaer, to the south-
west of the Electrical Connection Site, for comprehensive, residential led, mixed use 
development of up to 750 homes during the Plan period (and up to 1,000 homes 
beyond the Plan period), incorporating primary school, leisure and recreation 
 Electical Connection PDAS  
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
28 
 
facilities, public realm, public open space and appropriate community and 
commercial uses; and 
 
Draft Policy SD E seeks to allocate land north of Clasemont Road, Morriston, to the 
south of the Electrical Connection Site, for comprehensive, residential led, mixed use 
development of up to 675 homes during the Plan period, incorporating primary 
school, leisure and recreation facilities, public realm, public open space and 
appropriate community and commercial uses. 
5.5.21 
The following draft LDP policies seek to allocate major residential-led development at sites 
within proximity of the Electrical Connection Site: 
 
LDP Policy H1.11 – 60 dwellings at Land at Ramsey Road, Clydach; 
 
 
LDP Policy H1.21 – 90 dwellings at Land east of Pontarddulais Road, Gorseinon;  
 
LDP Policy H1.26 – 100 dwellings at Land at Carmel Road and Bryntirion Road, 
Pontlliw; 
 
LDP Policy H1.30 – 50 dwellings at Land north of Llewellyn Road, Penllergaer; and 
 
LDP Policy H1.31 – 50 dwellings at Land at Bolgoed Road, Pontarddulais.  
5.5.22 
Draft Policy SI 4 safeguards land adjacent to Morriston Hospital, to the south-east of the 
Electrical Connection Site, for future development, restricted to healthcare related uses 
associated with Morriston Hospital.  Proposals are required to be “delivered alongside 
appropriate new and enhanced highway infrastructure that will significantly improve the 
existing substandard road access leading to the site”.  A new access road is proposed as 
part of this proposal (Strategic Transport Strategy Table 9.2) to resolve road capacity 
issues from the roundabout immediately north of M4 J46. 
Figure 4: Extracts from draft LDP Proposals Map (Map 13: Mawr) (Part i) (Approximate centre of the site 
indicated in red) 
 
 Electical Connection PDAS  
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
29 
 
 
Figure 4: Extract from draft LDP Proposals Map (Map 13: Mawr) (Part ii)   
 
ii. CCS Draft LDP - Written Statement 
5.5.23 
The LDP Written Statement sets out a vision, strategic objectives, and growth strategy that 
address development opportunities and issues across the county.  In addition to the site-
specific policies set out above, the following draft LDP policies are also considered to be 
relevant. 
5.5.24 
Draft paragraph 1.2.2 sets out the overarching vision of the LDP, that “The County will be a 
desirable place to live, work and visit. The LDP vision will be delivered through a series of 
strategic objectives relating to “Enhancing Communities, Facilities & Infrastructure”, 
“Delivering Economic Growth and Prosperity”, and “Fostering a High Quality Environment”.  
Of the objectives set out in Figure 4 of the LDP, those relevant to the Electrical Connection 
are set out below: 
 
Facilitate the provision of appropriate infrastructure to support communities and 
businesses; 
 
Encourage appropriate development of low carbon and renewable energy resources 
and energy infrastructure; 
 
Support the safeguarding and sustainable use of natural resources where 
appropriate; 
 
Support development that positions Swansea as an economically competitive place 
and an economic driver for the City Region; 
 
Facilitate growth and diversification of the local economy and an increase in high 
value, skilled employment; 
 Electical Connection PDAS  
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
30 
 
 
Promote and enhance a diverse and sustainable rural economy; 
 
Promote a sustainable development strategy that avoids significant adverse 
environmental impacts and respects environmental assets; 
 
Maintain and enhance green infrastructure networks; 
 
Support measures to minimise the causes and consequences of climate change; and 
 
Promote good design that is locally distinct, sustainable, innovative and sensitive to 
location. 
5.5.25 
Draft Policy PS 1 sets out the Plan’s sustainable development strategy which seeks to limit 
development in the countryside to exceptional circumstances. Draft Policy PS 2 requires 
that development enhances the quality of places and spaces and responds positively to 
local context and character in terms of specific design principles. 
5.5.26 
Draft Policy PS 4 seeks to address opportunities for the creation of up to 14,700 additional 
jobs over the Plan period. Draft Policy IO 1 states that “development must be supported by 
appropriate infrastructure, facilities and other requirements considered necessary as part 
of the proposal,” which must be provided in a timely and coordinated manner.  Where 
necessary, “planning obligations will be sought to ensure that the effects of developments 
are fully addressed in order to make the development acceptable.” Draft Policy IO 2 
requires developers to “maximise added benefits from the development in relation to the 
creation of training and job opportunities.” 
5.5.27 
Draft Policy HC 1 seeks to preserve or enhance the County’s distinctive historic and 
cultural environment by requiring high quality design standards.  Similarly, draft Policy HC 
2 seeks to preserve or enhance the County’s buildings and features of historic importance. 
5.5.28 
Draft Policy SI 1 states that health inequalities will be reduced and healthy lifestyles 
encouraged by ensuring that development proposals, inter alia, “do not result in significant 
risks to life, human health or well-being, particularly in respect of air, noise, light, water or 
land pollution.” 
5.5.29 
Draft Policy ER 1 requires that development proposals take into account the following 
principles to mitigate against the effects of climate change, adapt to its impacts, and to 
ensure resilience: 
i. 
Reduce carbon emissions; 
ii. 
Protect and increase carbon sinks; 
iii. 
Adapt to the implications of climate change at both a strategic and detailed design 
level; 
iv. 
Promote energy and resource efficiency and increase the supply of renewable and 
low carbon energy; 
v. 
Avoid unnecessary flood risk by assessing the implications of development proposals 
within areas susceptible to flooding and preventing development that unacceptably 
increases risk, and 
vi. 
Maintain ecological resilience. 
5.5.30 
Draft Policy ER 2 requires that development to maintain or enhance the County’s multi-
functional green infrastructure network. Draft Policy ER 6 states that “development will not 
be permitted that would result in a likely significant adverse effect to sites of international or 
national nature conservation importance”.  In addition, “development that would affect 
locally designated sites of nature conservation importance should maintain or enhance the 
nature conservation interest of the site.” 
 Electical Connection PDAS  
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
31 
 
5.5.31 
Draft ER 8 states that development proposals that would have a significant adverse effect 
on the continued viability of habitats and species will only be permitted where: 
i. 
“The need for development outweighs the nature conservation importance of the 
site”; 
ii. 
The developer demonstrates that there is no satisfactory alternative location for the 
development which avoids nature conservation impacts; 
iii. 
Effective mitigation measures are provided by the developer; and 
iv. 
Any unavoidable harm is minimised by effective mitigation to ensure that there is no 
reduction in the overall nature conservation value of the area.”  
5.5.32 
Draft Policy ER 9 states that development proposals “will be expected to maintain, protect 
and 
enhance 
ecological 
networks 
and 
features 
of 
importance 
for 
biodiversity…Development proposals that could result in a significant adverse effect on the 
connectivity of ecological networks and features of importance for biodiversity will only be 
permitted where: 
i. 
The need for the development outweighs the nature conservation value of the site; 
ii. 
It can be demonstrated that there is no satisfactory alternative location for the 
development; 
iii. 
A connected element of the natural resource is retained as part of the design of the 
development; and 
iv. 
Compensatory provision will be made of comparable ecological value to that lost as a 
result of the development.” 
5.5.33 
Draft Policy ER 10 states that development will not be permitted that would cause 
significant adverse effect to geological or geomorphological Sites of Special Scientific 
Interest (SSSIs).  Development that would affect regionally important geological or 
geomorphological sites (RIGs) should maintain the geological or geomorphological 
interests of the site. Draft Policy ER 11 states that “development that would adversely 
affect trees, woodlands and hedgerows of public amenity, natural/cultural heritage value, or 
that provide important ecosystem services will not normally be permitted.” 
5.5.34 
Draft Policy CV 2 sets a presumption against development in the countryside, except 
where it is for “necessary infrastructure provision”.  Development in the countryside is 
required to ensure that the integrity of the countryside is conserved and enhanced. 
5.5.35 
Draft Policy T 1 requires that “development must be supported by appropriate transport 
measures and infrastructure”.  Development that would have an unacceptable impact on 
the safe and efficient operation of the transport network will not be permitted. 
5.5.36 
Draft Policy T 5 sets out a series of design principles for transport infrastructure, including 
ensuring that the design of development Draft Policy T 7 requires that acceptable 
alternative routes are identified and provided where development “significantly adversely 
affects the character, safety, enjoyment and convenient use of a Public Right of Way 
(PROW).” 
5.5.37 
In addition to supporting large scale wind farm developments within the Strategic Search 
Area (referenced above), draft Policy EU 1 supports proposals for renewable or low carbon 
energy development across CCS, subject to the following criteria: 
a) “The siting, design, layout, type of installation and materials used do not have a 
significant adverse effect on the characteristics and features of the proposed 
location; 
 Electical Connection PDAS  
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
32 
 
b) The development would not result in unacceptable loss of public amenity or public 
accessibility to the area; 
c) The development would not result in significant adverse effects on natural heritage or 
historic environment, or visual amenity either individually or cumulatively; 
d) There would be no significant adverse effect on the Gower AONB; 
e) There would be no significant adverse impact on water quality and quantity; 
f) The development would not result in the permanent sterilisation of minerals 
resources; 
g) The development would not compromise the transport network; 
h) The development would not interfere with aircraft operations or telecommunications; 
i) 
There would be no loss of carbon sinks, or that on-site loss can be adequately 
mitigated; and 
j) 
The satisfactory removal of infrastructure and remediation and/or restoration of the 
natural environment, would be undertaken in accordance with an aftercare scheme to 
be agreed with the Council prior to the development being carried out.” 
5.5.38 
Draft Policy RP 1 seeks to prevent development that would result in a “significant risk to: 
life; human health and well-being; property; controlled waters; or the natural and historic 
environment,” particularly in respect of: “air, noise or light pollution; flood risk; water 
resources; land contamination; land instability or subsidence; mineral resources; and 
sustainable waste management.” 
5.5.39 
Draft Policy RP 2 requires that, “where development could lead to exposure to a source of 
air, noise or light pollution, it must be demonstrated that appropriate mitigation measures 
will be implemented and incorporated into the design of the development.” 
5.5.40 
Draft Policy RP 3 states that “development that compromises the quality of the water 
environment, or does not comply with good water resource management, will not be 
permitted.  Development proposals must make efficient use of water resources and, where 
appropriate, contribute towards improvements to water quality.” 
5.5.41 
Draft Policy RP 4 states that development will not be permitted in areas at risk of flooding, 
unless it can be demonstrated that “the development can be justified in line with national 
guidance and is supported by a technical assessment that verifies that the new 
development is designed to alleviate the threat and consequences of flooding”. 
5.5.42 
Draft Policy RP 5 states that “development proposals on land where there is a risk from 
contamination or landfill gas will not be permitted unless it can be demonstrated that 
measures can be taken to satisfactorily overcome any significant risk to life, human health, 
property, controlled waters, or the natural and historic environment.” 
5.5.43 
 Draft Policy RP 7 supports the development of sustainable waste management facilities in 
appropriate rural locations. Supporting paragraph 2.14.48 notes that preferred areas for 
new waste management facilities include the former Tip site at Felindre, within proximity of 
the Electrical Connection Site.  The site at Felindre is identified specifically for the potential 
to accommodate a Combined Heat and Power (CHP) Facility which could provide heat or 
power for adjacent proposed developments.   
5.5.44 
Draft Policy RP 9 requires development to incorporate, as appropriate, “adequate and 
effective provision for the storage, recycling and other sustainable management of waste, 
and allow for appropriate access arrangements for recycling and refuse collection vehicles 
and personnel.” 
 Electical Connection PDAS  
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
33 
 
d) Summary of Compliance with Emerging Local Planning Policy 
5.5.45 
The Electrical Connection can be regarded as sustainable development and necessary 
infrastructure provision in the countryside, in accordance with draft LDP Policies PS1, PS2 
and CV 2 and is supported by Policy EU 1 and ER 1. With regard to policies for the 
countryside, heritage and environmental protection (Policies HC1, HC2, ER2, ER5, ER6, 
ER8, ER9, ER10 and RP 14), the Electrical Connection: 
 
Has been integrated into the landscape through careful siting, layout, design and 
landscape mitigation commitments; 
 
Includes detailed environmental and ecological mitigation measures; 
 
Ensures that no heritage assets would be affected;  
 
Does not cause any adverse impacts on amenity and well-being; and 
 
Would be decommissioned at the end of its design life and the landscape restored;  
5.5.46 
The Electrical Connection will have several beneficial impacts including supporting 
construction employment in accordance with draft LDP Policies PS4 and IO2.  
5.5.47 
With regard to Polices RP 1, 2 and 3 and SI 1, the Electrical Connection ensures that there 
will be: 
 
No adverse effects on human health;  
 
No adverse effects arising from noise or air pollution; and 
 
There will be no impacts on water quality. 
5.5.48 
In terms of transport, impacts from the Electrical Connection will be limited, requiring a 
possible temporary closure of the public right of way during construction. The public right of 
way will be re-instated during the operation of the connection. As such, it is considered that 
the Electrical Connection complies with Policies T1 and T5 of the draft LDP. 
5.5.49 
With regard to draft LDP Policy RP12, it is likely that the Electrical Connection would 
prevent extraction of coal, sand and gravel resources whilst it is constructed. The Electrical 
Cable is likely to be left in situ. The coal, sand and gravels reserves are considered to be of 
minimal economic use. While there will be permanent sterilisation of the reserves from the 
Electrical Connection, it is considered that a relatively small area of the reserves will be 
affected compared to the full extent available in the area. It is also understood that there 
are no current or imminent prospects of these resources being extracted. It is also 
understood that there are no current or imminent prospects of these resources being 
extracted. Policies RP 7 and 9 refer to waste and the Electrical Connection incorporates an 
appropriate waste management strategy in accordance with the policies. 
5.5.50 
Due to the location of the Electrical Connection Site, it would not impede the 
implementation of the strategic allocations at Policy SD 1(G), Policy SD A, Policy SD C, 
Policy SD E, residential land allocations or land safeguarded at Morriston Hospital. 
5.5.51 
The weight that can be attached to the emerging LDP is currently limited. In that respect, 
substantial weight should be afforded to the need for electricity generation and its 
associated development in line with national policy. However, overall, the Electrical 
Connection accords with the emerging draft LDP and its aim to promote sustainable 
development. 
 Electical Connection PDAS  
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
34 
 
5.5.52 
Impacts on PROWs have been minimised as far as practicable in line with draft LDP Policy 
T7 and it is anticipated that a possible temporary closure of one footpath will be required.  
 
Supplementary Planning Guidance 
5.6
5.6.1 
CCS has produced Supplementary Planning Guidance (SPG) to support the 
implementation of adopted UDP planning policies. 
5.6.2 
The Planning Obligations SPG, published by CCS in March 2010, is an SPG document of 
potential relevance to the Electrical Connection. The Planning Obligations SPG identifies 
the types of obligations developers may be expected to contribute towards, the likely 
amounts of these obligations, and the procedures involved when entering into obligations. 
5.6.3 
The Protection of Trees on Development Sites SPG is also relevant and sets out steps to 
be considered to ensure that significant existing and proposed trees are kept healthy and 
become an asset to a new development. The Electrical Connection incorporates suitable 
protection measures. 
 
 
 Electical Connection PDAS  
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
35 
 
6. 
Conclusions  
6.1.1 
This PDAS has been prepared in support of an application for full planning permission for 
the Electrical Connection. The Electrical Connection will connect the Abergelli Power 
Project Station with the existing Swansea North Substation. This PDAS has been prepared 
in accordance with national planning policy and guidance on the preparation of DAS 
documents. 
6.1.2 
The Electrical Connection is considered to be an acceptable form of development for the 
following reasons: 
 
The site lies within an area of countryside in which a number of power related 
installations are already located and the site is suitable for power generation and its 
associated development; 
 
The Electrical Connection will facilitate the generation of low carbon electricity, which is 
a priority both in terms of UK and Welsh Government energy and planning policies; 
 
The Electrical Connection will contribute to employment generation and economic 
development in the area; 
 
There are no existing highway safety issues in the immediate vicinity of the site and 
the existing public right of way will be retained during the operation of the scheme,; 
and 
 
Comprehensive mitigation measures are proposed to ensure that the Electrical 
Connection is acceptable in environmental, landscape, amenity and well-being terms. 
6.1.3 
In conclusion, the Electrical Connection complies with national planning and energy 
policies, the provisions of the development plan and emerging national and local planning 
policies. Accordingly, the planning application should be considered favourably by the local 
planning authority and planning permission granted for the Electrical Connection. 
 
 
 Electical Connection PDAS  
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
36 
 
7. 
References 
Ref. 1-1 Town and Country Planning (Environmental Impact Assessment) (Wales) Regulations 
2017 (the ‘EIA Regulations’) 
Ref. 2-1 City and County of Swansea. 2008. Unitary Development Plan. (Online) Available at: 
https://www.swansea.gov.uk/article/5337/UDP-written-statement 
Ref. 2-2 Directive 2000/60/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a 
framework for the Community action in the field of water policy, i.e. The Water Framework 
Directive.  
 
Filename: C:\Users\oharag\Desktop\lecy\F1_Site_Location rev 1.mxd
This drawing has been prepared for the use of AECOM's client. It may not be used, modified, reproduced or relied upon by third parties, except as agreed by AECOM or as required by law. AECOM accepts no responsibility, and denies any liability whatsoever, to any party that uses or relies on this drawing without AECOM's express written consent. Do not scale this document. All measurements must be obtained from the stated dimensions.
AECOM Internal Project No:
Drawing Title:
Drawing No:
60542910
SITE LOCATION PLAN
005
Scale at A3: 1:25,000
FIGURE 1
400
0
400
800
1,200
1,600
2,000 m
±
Rev:
Project Title:
Client:
LEGEND
ABERGELLI POWER 
PROJECT 
AECOM Limited
1 Callaghan Square
Cardiff, CF10 5BT
+44 (0)29 2067 4600 tel
www.aecom.com
Copyright:
© Crown copyright and database rights
 [2017] Ordnance Survey 0100031673
© Local Government Information House 
Limited copyright and database rights
 [2017] 0100031673
Drawn:
GM
Chk'd:
CC
Date:
App'd:
CA
31/07/18
Electrical Connection Site
Project Site Boundary
Felindre
M4, Junction 46
Filename: \\eu.aecomnet.com\euprojectvol\UKCDF1-IE\Projects\Environmental\Jobs - Potential\2017\2017 Q1\Abergelli Power Station\010 GIS\02_Maps\Gas Connection Site Figures\F2_Site_Layout_plan for application elc revx.mxd
This drawing has been prepared for the use of AECOM's client. It may not be used, modified, reproduced or relied upon by third parties, except as agreed by AECOM or as required by law. AECOM accepts no responsibility, and denies any liability whatsoever, to any party that uses or relies on this drawing without AECOM's express written consent. Do not scale this document. All measurements must be obtained from the stated dimensions.
AECOM Internal Project No:
Drawing Title:
Drawing No:
60542910
SITE LAYOUT PLAN
005
Scale at A3: 1:7,500
FIGURE 2
60
0
60
120
180
240
300 m
±
Rev:
Project Title:
Client:
LEGEND
ABERGELLI POWER
PROJECT
AECOM Limited
1 Callaghan Square
Cardiff, CF10 5BT
+44 (0)29 2067 4600 tel
www.aecom.com
Copyright:
© Crown copyright and database rights
 [2017] Ordnance Survey 0100031673
© Local Government Information House 
Limited copyright and database rights
 [2017] 0100031673
Drawn:
GM
Chk'd:
CC
Date:
App'd:
CA
03/08/18
Electrical Connection Site
Project Site Boundary
Electrical Connection (400kV Cable)
