Chapter 5
Alternatives Considered
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 5: ALTERNATIVES CONSIDERED 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited   
 
AECOM 
5-1 
 
CONTENTS 
5. 
Alternatives Considered ..................................................................................... 2 
5.1 Introduction ............................................................................................... 2 
5.2 Project Site Selection ................................................................................ 2 
5.3 Power Generation Plant ............................................................................ 3 
5.4 Gas Connection ......................................................................................... 7 
5.5 Electrical Connection ................................................................................. 9 
5.6 Ecological Mitigation Area ......................................................................... 9 
5.7 References .............................................................................................. 10 
 
FIGURES 
Figure  5.1: Access Route Options 
Figure 5.2: Gas Connection Options 
Figure 5.3: Opportunity Areas 
 
APPENDICIES 
Appendix 5.1: Combined Heats and Power Technical Note 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 5: ALTERNATIVES CONSIDERED 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited   
 
AECOM 
5-2 
 
5. 
Alternatives Considered 
5.1 
Introduction 
5.1.1 
Schedule 4, Part 1 of the EIA Regulations (Ref. 5.1) requires that an ES provides 
‘An outline of the main alternatives studied by the Applicant [APL] and an indication 
of the main reasons for the Applicant's [APL’s] choice, taking into account the 
environmental effects’. Under the EIA Regulations applicable to this Project there is 
no requirement to assess alternatives, only a requirement to provide an outline of 
those alternatives that have actually been considered. In this case, the need to 
consider alternatives is not engaged under the Habitats Regulations or pursuant to 
a policy requirement under Section 5.3, 5.7 and 5.9 of NPS EN-1. 
5.1.2 
This chapter therefore describes the site selection process followed by APL and the 
key factors that led to the identification of the Project Site, and provides an outline 
of the main generating equipment technologies, layouts and access, and Gas 
Connection and Electrical Connection route options, considered for the Project. 
5.2 
Project Site Selection 
5.2.1 
APL’s site selection process began in 2010 and considered a range of factors, 
including key factors identified in (Factors influencing site selection by developers) 
of NPS EN-2. As recognised by NPS EN-2 (Chapter 2: Regulatory and Policy 
Background, Section 2.7), it is for energy companies to decide what applications 
to bring forward and the Government does not seek to direct applicants to particular 
sites. In addition, the specific criteria considered by applicants, and the weight they 
give to them, can and will vary from project to project. 
5.2.2 
The process followed by APL included the following main phases, in order to first 
identify a number of potentially feasible sites and thereafter refine this set of sites 
through increasingly detailed selection criteria: 
 
Identification of a large number of potential sites across the UK through existing 
data sources; 
 
Refinement of this set of sites, driven mainly by the need for electrical 
generation capacity to be located as closely as possible to the main sources of 
demand in the UK; 
 
Further refinement based on the layout of the electricity and gas transmission 
networks in the UK, to ensure proximity to these networks; and 
 
Assessment of the remaining sites based on technical, environmental and 
economic factors, as well as consideration of whether or not a proposed Project 
would be in accordance with local planning policy and with the availability of the 
sites. 
5.2.3 
Within the final phase, the key technical considerations included the size of the site 
(i.e. is a sufficient area available to support a power generation plant of up to 299 
MWe and integral infrastructure) as well as any geographical or network-related 
constraints to accessing gas and electricity connections. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 5: ALTERNATIVES CONSIDERED 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited   
 
AECOM 
5-3 
 
5.2.4 
From an environmental perspective, consideration was given to the proximity of 
sensitive receptors, such as residential properties or sites of ecological importance 
(to avoid unacceptable impacts from noise and visual disturbance), the current 
nature of the surrounding area (to limit impacts on the landscape character of the 
area), previous site uses and land quality (to avoid sterilisation of the best and most 
versatile agricultural land) and proximity to sensitive ecological habitats. 
5.2.5 
The key economic criterion is the proximity of a site to appropriate gas and 
electrical connection points, in order to reduce the cost to the UK consumer and the 
environmental impact of the associated connections. 
5.2.6 
Based on these factors, the Project Site was considered suitable for the following 
main reasons: 
 
It is in close proximity to a suitable electrical connection point; 
 
It is in close proximity to a suitable gas connection point; 
 
The Project Site does not include any nationally important environmental 
designations; 
 
The land available is of an adequate size to accommodate the Power 
Generation Plant, Gas Connection and Electrical Connection; 
 
The Project Site is largely situated on poor quality agricultural land (improved 
grassland classified as Grade 4 agricultural land); 
 
It is in close proximity to similar industrial developments including the Felindre 
Gas Compressor Station and Substation; 
 
The surrounding network is within an area of net electricity import; and 
 
It is in close proximity to a well-developed road network to the Project Site. 
5.2.7 
As a result of the site selection process outlined above, Drax is bringing forward 
three other power generation projects through the PA 2008 process. They are: 
Progress Power Ltd at Eye Airfield in Suffolk (www.progresspower.co.uk): Hirwaun 
Power Ltd at Hirwaun in South Wales (www.hirwaunpower.co.uk): and Millbrook 
Power Ltd in Bedfordshire (www.millbrookpower.co.uk).  The first two projects listed 
received DCOs in July 2015. A DCO application for Millbrook Power Limited was 
submitted to the Planning Inspectorate in October 2017. 
5.3 
Power Generation Plant 
5.3.1 
The following technology options have been considered for the Power Generation 
Plant: OCGT plant; Combined Cycle Gas Turbine (CCGT) plant; Reciprocating Gas 
Engines (RGE) plant and CHP Plant. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 5: ALTERNATIVES CONSIDERED 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited   
 
AECOM 
5-4 
 
5.3.2 
The operation of OCGT plant has been described previously in Section 3.4. CCGT 
plant consist of the same plant items as OCGT, although they also utilise a heat 
recovery steam generator (HRSG) which uses the waste heat from the exhaust 
gases to produce steam which is used to power a steam turbine. RGE plant are 
similar in operation to a large internal combustion engine, with a crankshaft driven 
by pistons. CHP utilises waste heat from the combustion process to feed to other 
industrial users (deemed off-takers) within the vicinity of the plant. Further 
information is provided in a separate report prepared regarding the use of CHP at 
the Project (Appendix 5.1). 
5.3.3 
OCGT is considered to be the most suitable technology choice for generating up to 
299 MW as a peaking plant and operating at up to 2,250 hours at the Project Site 
based on the following environmental, technical and feasibility considerations: 
 
Visual impact: OCGT plants require shorter stack(s) compared to CCGT plant 
and therefore are less visually intrusive in views from the surrounding 
environment; 
 
Water resources: Since no cooling is required for the condensing of steam, the 
cooling requirements of OCGT plants are significantly lower than, for example, 
CCGT plants. The auxiliary cooling requirements (for lubrication oil, etc.) would 
be met via dry air cooling through the use of fin-fan coolers or Air Cooled 
Condensers (ACC). The water requirement of a OCGT plant is therefore 
significantly lower than for CCGT plants; 
 
Noise and available space: noise levels from an OCGT plant would typically be 
lower than for an RGE plant. A larger number of RGE units would be required 
at the Generating Equipment Site to generate up to 299 MW. Spatially this may 
not be possible; 
 
Financial: based on the anticipated electricity market, it is essential that the 
Power Generation Plant of the size proposed would be particularly cost 
effective, as it would be called upon to operate flexibly to balance out the 
National Grid and meet changing demands of customers; and 
 
Start-up times: OCGT plants are able to start up and shut down much quicker 
than similar sized CCGT plants and are, therefore, better suited to meeting 
variable demands. 
5.3.4 
Uncertain market conditions in 2014 led to the consideration of a number of 
different OCGT technologies and, as such, the 2014 PEIR and associated formal 
consultation process was based on the construction and operation of between 1 
and 5 Gas Turbine Generators. However, greater clarity on the capacity market 
rules, further engagement with the equipment manufacturers, and consultation with 
the local community and relevant stakeholders has led to the decision that a single 
Gas Turbine Generator is the best technology solution for the Project. These 
changes have been reflected in the updated preliminary EIA and are reported on in 
this PEIR. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 5: ALTERNATIVES CONSIDERED 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited   
 
AECOM 
5-5 
 
a) Layout 
5.3.5 
The design of an OCGT is dictated by its operational requirements. A limited range 
of site layouts were examined before culminating in the final design of the Project 
taking into account the following constraints: 
 
Avoidance of utilities such as the 1.68 m cast iron Water Main and National 
Gas Transmission System (hence bisects site under the Gallops); 
 
Avoidance of landfill to north; 
 
Avoidance of higher topography to the north west which would be more visible 
in key views; 
 
Avoidance of woodland to the East; 
 
Avoidance of solar farms to the north, south, east and west; and 
 
Avoidance of field boundaries, ancient woodland and mature trees as far as 
reasonably possible (being wildlife/ heritage features). 
5.3.6 
The final layout of the Project Site has also been determined by the following main 
factors in relation to each of the components, as discussed below. 
i. 
Generating Equipment 
5.3.7 
The Gas Turbine Generator and stack require the largest area of land-take as 
compared to the other components. It is also best practice for the layout of the 
Generating Equipment Site to make the Generating Equipment easily accessible by 
the operators and maintenance staff from the control and administration building. 
These were key considerations which influenced the siting of the Generating 
Equipment Site.  
5.3.8 
However, the subsequent identification of the Water Main, which crosses the 
Generating Equipment Site and Laydown Area from northwest to southeast (see 
Figure 3.4), has influenced where the Generating Equipment will be located within 
the Generating Equipment Site. The Water Main is owned by Welsh Water, who 
has advised that typically a 30 m buffer (15 m either side of the Water Main) is 
required to be kept clear of construction activities. To accommodate this 
requirement, and to allow for uncertainty over the accuracy and digitisation of 
Welsh Water’s archive drawings, a 60 m allowance has been incorporated in the 
configuration of the Generating Equipment.  
5.3.9 
Further investigation works are ongoing to determine the exact location of the 
Water Main but this is not expected to require any additional design changes due to 
the 60 m allowance being applied and agreed with Welsh Water. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 5: ALTERNATIVES CONSIDERED 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited   
 
AECOM 
5-6 
 
5.3.10 The 2016 engineering review of the Project identified that the site for the 
Generating Equipment could be contained in one location instead of being 
separated by the Water Main by staging or raising the ground levels to create 
platforms. By applying the same 60 m allowance to the location of the Water Main 
and the reduction in gas turbine units to a single turbine unit, it was therefore 
possible to fit the Generating Equipment Site into a single location to the north of 
the gallops, thereby avoiding the requirement for splitting the Generation 
Equipment and increasing the land available for potential Laydown Area and 
Ecological Mitigation Area.  
5.3.11 The majority of the Generating Equipment is therefore positioned to the north of the 
Water Main. 
ii. Access 
5.3.12 During Phase 1 statutory consultation, two options were considered for access to 
the Generating Equipment Site. Access Option 1 (so-called as it was identified first) 
would have involved taking access from the north via the Rhyd-y-pandy Road and 
the existing access road west of Brynheulog past Abergelli Farm which would need 
to be extended to the Generating Equipment Site, as shown between the points D 
and C on Figure 5.1. This option involved widening of the existing gravel track to 6 
m and localised upgrades along the Rhyd-y-Pandy Road. The track crosses the 
National Gas Transmission System. It runs parallel to the Water Main but does not 
cross it. 
5.3.13 Subsequently, a second access option, known as Access Option 2, was identified. 
This is from the west via the B4489, along the access road to the Substation and 
Felindre Gas Compressor Station, which will be widened to accommodate the 
abnormal loads required during construction, and then along a new section of 
purpose built access road to be constructed across undeveloped land to the 
Generating Equipment Site as shown between the points A and B on Figure 5.1. 
The purpose built extension from the existing access road to the Generating 
Equipment Site will cross under a 400kV overhead electrical line, two watercourses 
and a Local Transmission System pipeline. 
5.3.14 Access Option 2 was the option taken forward and is referred to elsewhere in this 
PEIR as the Access Road. The main reasons for this choice were that the majority 
of the public consulted during 2014 supported Access Option 2 in preference to 
Access Option 1, as it would result in a lower adverse impact on traffic by using a 
shorter, more direct route and would avoid the roads leading to Morriston Hospital. 
This option would also minimise the amount of construction required, as part of the 
access is existing. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 5: ALTERNATIVES CONSIDERED 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited   
 
AECOM 
5-7 
 
5.3.15 Two onsite options (Option A and Option B) are being considered for the internal 
new Access Road from the Substation to the Generating Equipment Site. These 
are detailed in Chapter 3: Project and Site Description and shown on insert in 
Figure 5.1. Further investigations and engineering reviews are ongoing, and so the 
choice of route will be subject to consultation with interested parties. The final route 
design will be confirmed at DCO submission, taking into account consultation 
feedback.   
b) Combined Heat and Power (CHP) 
5.3.16 The potential for using CHP opportunities with these technologies was also 
considered (Appendix 5.1). However, it is not technically or economically feasible 
with a peaking power station in this location for the following reasons: 
 
There is no existing regional heat market. From local searches, there are no 
suitable heat users of applicable scale available and none able to accept the 
unpredictable supply of heat available. 
 
The intermittent and peaking modes of operation of OCGT are incompatible 
with the likely continuous demands of heat users. 
 
No potential future heat requirements in the area have been identified and none 
are currently anticipated that would match the irregular operational pattern of a 
peaking plant. 
5.3.17 Given the lack of applicable heat demand as outlined above, it is not considered 
reasonable to seek to make provision for exploiting potential future heat demand. 
5.3.18 Based on the above environmental, technical and feasibility considerations, an 
OCGT is considered to be the most suitable technology choice for generating up to 
299 MW as a peaking plant and operating up to 2,250 hours at the Project Site.  
5.4 
Gas Connection 
5.4.1 
A gas connection feasibility study was undertaken in March 2014 to define and 
evaluate the options available for connecting the Generating Equipment to a 
suitable source of fuel gas. This identified Feeder 28 of the National Gas 
Transmission System or a nearby Local Transmission System pipeline as possible 
connection points. The location of these connection points in relation to the Project 
Site is shown on Figure 5.2. 
5.4.2 
Investigations to identify specific route corridor options to the National Gas 
Transmission System or Local Transmission System pipelines within a 
predetermined Gas Connection Opportunity Area (Figure 5.2) were carried out, 
considering in particular the length, the number of crossings required, 
environmental effects and cost. The Gas Connection Opportunity Area was defined 
as a result of a gas feasibility study undertaken by Parsons Brinkerhoff in 2014. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 5: ALTERNATIVES CONSIDERED 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited   
 
AECOM 
5-8 
 
5.4.3 
The four principal potential connection route options (shown on Figure 5.2) listed 
below were explored further leading to the identification of a single preferred route 
for the Gas Connection. Due regard has been paid to relevant factors including 
environmental, planning, safety, engineering and constructability in selecting the 
preferred route. 
5.4.4 
Route 1 was approximately 1.7 km in length and included: no major road crossings; 
four minor road crossings; no major watercourse crossings; and two minor 
watercourse crossings. This route was a feasible route although it presented some 
major risks in regards to the potential for impacts on protected species and their 
habitats and proximity to the development of a Solar Farm at Abergelli Farm, to the 
west of the National Gas Transmission System. 
5.4.5 
Route 2 was approximately 1.2 km in length and included: no major road crossings; 
one minor road crossing; no major watercourse crossings; and one minor 
watercourse crossing. This route avoids pasture and deciduous woodland which 
have been identified as favourable for protected species. Although this route would 
not be as straight forward as Route 4 to implement, it is more viable than Route 1. 
A major risk remains in the possibility of routeing through the proposed solar farm 
or alongside and parallel to the National Gas Transmission System. Therefore, 
variations to this route were considered as Routes 2a and 2b. Route 2a would 
travel between the National Gas Transmission System and the edge of Abergelli 
Solar Farm and Route 2b as proposed would cross the National Gas Transmission 
System twice. 
5.4.6 
Route 3 was approximately 1.4 km in length and included: no major road crossings; 
one minor road crossing; no major watercourse crossings; and three minor 
watercourse crossings. Route 3 was considered the most viable alternative to 
Route 2. The route crosses the National Gas Transmission System and therefore 
would require the use of the HDD crossing technique. 
5.4.7 
Route 4 was approximately 0.4 km in length and included: no major road crossings; 
no minor road crossings; no major watercourse crossings; and one minor 
watercourse crossing. Route 4 would connect into the Local Transmission System. 
The route would allow little buffer capacity and would require negotiation with 
Wales and West Utilities in regards to their availability of fuel gas capacity. 
5.4.8 
Initially, Route 2 was chosen as the preferred option as it represented the shortest 
distance, whilst avoiding environmental constraints and risks associated with 
crossing the existing National Gas Transmission System. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 5: ALTERNATIVES CONSIDERED 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited   
 
AECOM 
5-9 
 
5.4.9 
Route 2a, which was the option to route the Pipeline between the solar park and 
the National Gas Transmission System, was also deemed unfeasible following 
discussions with National Grid who are owners of the National Gas Transmission 
System. Proceeding with Route 2a would involve working in close proximity with 
the National Gas Transmission System hence working under very constrained 
conditions over a longer distance compared to Route 2b which crosses the National 
Gas Transmission System at 2 locations over a shorter distance where working 
conditions would be more favourable. 
5.4.10 Consequently Route 2b was chosen as the preferred route for the Gas Connection 
and is therefore the route which has been fully assessed in this PEIR. Although not 
the shortest route, it has lower risks and avoids ecologically significant habitats, 
such as rough pasture and deciduous woodland which were identified during the 
Phase 1 Habitat Survey (see Appendix 8.1). 
5.5 
Electrical Connection 
5.5.1 
A grid connection assessment was undertaken for the Project in March 2014 in 
order to define and evaluate the options available for connecting the Generating 
Equipment to the NETS for the export of electricity. The Project will connect into a 
Gas Insulated Switchgear (GIS) generator bay within the Substation. Agreements 
between NGET and APL to connect the Project into the Substation were signed on 
21st September 2017.   
5.5.2 
Both underground cables and overhead lines were initially considered. However, 
underground cables were selected as the preferred option in order to minimise 
visual impact. In the 2014 PEIR, it was noted that the cable would be installed 
beneath the road. The cable is now being laid alongside the road for ease of 
maintenance.  
5.5.3 
The Electrical Connection Opportunity Area (see Figure 5.3), to the south west of 
the Generating Equipment Site, is the area within which the route for the Electrical 
Connection has been identified. In July 2014, the chosen route (as described in 
Section 3.6) was identified during a site walkover of the Electrical Connection 
Opportunity Area. A limited number of route corridor options for the Electrical 
Connection were considered, as the most appropriate option i.e. the shortest, most 
direct route from the Generating Equipment Site to the Substation, requiring the 
least amount of land take and avoiding any statutory designated sites or valued 
habitats, was available (see Figure 5.3). This negated the need to assess any less 
favourable options. 
5.6 
Ecological Mitigation Area 
5.6.1 
An area has been set aside within the Project Site boundary to be available for 
ecological mitigation if required. The location and area will be confirmed post-
consultation once discussions with NRW and CCS have been undertaken. The 
area is likely to be commensurate with the extent of mitigation required and within 
the Order Limits of the Project.  
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 5: ALTERNATIVES CONSIDERED 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited   
 
AECOM 
5-10 
 
5.7 
References 
Ref. 5.1 
 The Infrastructure Planning (Environmental Impact Assessment) Regulations 
2009 (as amended) (‘the EIA Regulations’). 
 
 
