 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DRAX’S INDEPENDENT ADVISORY BOARD – H1 2022 update 
 
This year Drax’s Independent Advisory Board of scientists, academics, forestry and 
sustainability experts, examined Drax’s new sustainability framework and met with 
independent forestry and carbon specialists in Canada as part of a deep dive to learn more 
about Drax’s operations in British Columbia. 
At the February meeting, the IAB reviewed Drax’s definitions for Climate Positive and Nature 
Positive – two of the three pillars in the new sustainability policy – and discussed the types of 
evidence that would best show that the objectives are being met.  
The IAB made the following recommendations: 
1. In addition to biodiversity, nature positive should also include other attributes such as 
soil and water impacts. The IAB suggested that Drax could use the UK Government’s 
nature positive metrics once published. 
2. Drax should use evidence-based measurable steps to monitor its impact on nature 
and it would be useful to consider what metrics to use for counterfactuals to 
demonstrate the outcome if Drax had not taken that fibre for biomass.   
3. The IAB agreed that engagement and collaboration with local organisations is crucial 
and suggested a paper which looks at engaging stakeholders and can be of value to 
Drax’s approach at determining metrics: VH Dale and KL Kline (2017) 
In response to the IAB’s recommendations, Drax is incorporating the IAB’s 
recommendations in its Nature Positive work and the development of an ESG dashboard 
which will include a Nature Positive metric.  
In May, the IAB visited industrial and forestry sites in British Columbia (BC) in Canada, to 
learn more about Drax’s business in the province following its acquisition last year of a major 
Canadian pellet producer. 
The trip to BC follows visits by two IAB members to the US southeast – where Drax sources 
around 60% of its biomass and operates seven pellet plants. Further IAB visits to other 
regions where Drax sources its biomass, including Latvia and Estonia, are planned in the 
coming months to ensure the panel has a more complete picture of Drax’s sourcing areas.   
During the trip to BC, the IAB met with Professor Werner Kurz, a senior Canadian research 
scientist and leading forest carbon expert to better understand the role of BC’s forest sector 
in mitigating climate change. Prof. Kurz has contributed to several reports from the UN IPCC 
- the world’s leading authority on climate science. 
In Canada, the IAB also met with Garry Merkel, member of the Tahltan First Nation and 
author of the BC government-commissioned independent strategic review into Old Growth 
management. The review sets the strategic direction for British Columbia’s Old Growth 
management and guides current and future policies and activities in the sector. 
The IAB also toured a pellet mill in Lavington, Okanagan, which gets the majority of its 
feedstock from sawmill residues such as sawdust, woodchips and shavings, from the co-
located sawmill owned by Tolko Industries Ltd. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The remainder of the pellet mill’s feedstock comes from harvesting residues such as rotten, 
diseased, misshapen and fire damaged wood that would otherwise be burned at the 
roadside to remove fuel from the forests that could cause or intensify a wildfire. 
[A detailed breakdown of Drax’s feedstocks by region is published on page 5 of the ESG 
Supplement to the company’s Annual Report, which is independently audited.] 
The IAB also visited forestry sites including those which had undergone forest management 
in partnership with local First Nations to reduce the risk of wildfire and a tract where 
harvesting had been deferred for two years as part of the BC government’s new approach 
on managing Old Growth forests. 
The IAB made the following recommendations based on the visit to Canada: 
1. Drax should develop a glossary of forestry-related terms for each region they source 
from, as “old growth”, for example, has a different meaning depending on the region. 
2. Drax should continue its work on education and communication of its sourcing 
practices, forestry and the sector to further increase awareness of the complexities, 
and impact biomass has on sourcing areas and forests. 
3. As Drax develops its operations in Canada and other regions the company needs to 
provide evidence of the impacts for Climate, Nature and People.  
4. Regarding forest enhancement, health and research, Drax should play a more 
proactive role helping to protect the forests, such as using more of the residues that 
would help mitigate wildfire risk and get involved in research. 
5. Drax should determine where there are evidence gaps that need to be resolved such 
as those around calculations of carbon in the forest. The IAB suggested Drax uses 
broad principles globally as well as local indicators.  
6. The IAB recommended Drax further engages with environmental NGOs and 
introduce local forest management experts and others to speak directly to ENGOs. 
Drax has incorporated the IAB’s recommendations:  
1) Drax is developing a glossary on forest-related terms for each region 
2) Drax is refining its biomass communication strategy (presented to IAB in September 
2022) 
3) Studies evaluating the impact Drax has on its sourcing areas, in particular on Climate, 
Nature and People, is a core focus for the Sustainability team 
4) The External Affairs team will continue to engage with local ENGOs in BC.  
Since this year’s two IAB meetings, Drax’s Group Director of Sustainability Dr Alan Knight 
has updated the Terms of Reference for the IAB to reflect the panel’s evolving role.  
Updates include strengthening the IAB’s role as critical advisors to Drax by conducting more 
focused discussions on Drax’s biomass sourcing and sustainability strategy and 
incorporating biodiversity, publishing half-yearly updates on the website instead of minutes 
after each meeting and strengthening the relationship between the IAB and Drax’s Executive 
Committee and Board.  
The IAB is scheduled to meet with Drax’s Board in September.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(This document was approved by the IAB in September 2022). 
 
 
 
 
