 
 
 
 
The Progress Power  
(Gas Fired Power Station) Order 
 
APPLICATION TO MAKE A NON MATERIAL CHANGE TO THE 
PROGRESS POWER (GAS FIRED GENERATING STATION) 
ORDER 
 
Application 
 
Planning Act 2008 
 
THE INFRASTRUCTURE PLANNING (CHANGES TO, AND REVOCATION OF, DEVELOPMENT 
CONSENT ORDERS) REGULATIONS 2011 
PINS Reference Number:  
 
EN010060 
Document Reference: 
 
 
NMC 
Regulation Number: 
 
 
Regulation 4   
Author: 
 
 
 
 
Progress Power Limited 
 
Revision 
 
Date  
 
Description  
 
0 
 
 
August 2016  
Submission version 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents 
Non Material Change Application 
Supporting Statement 
Appendix 1 
Letter Response from the Secretary of State confirming the 
consultees PPL is to consult with under Regulation 7 of the 
Changes Regulations 
 
 
Appendix 2  
Environmental Report 
Appendix 3  
Proposed Amendments to Schedule 1 of the Order 
Appendix 4 
Proposed Amendments to Table 2 in Requirement 4 of 
Schedule 2 of the Order 
Appendix 5  
Photomontages 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Supporting Statement 
 
 
1 
 
Contents 
 
INTRODUCTION ............................................................................................................................. 2 
 
CONSULTATION AND PROCESS AS DESCRIBED BY THE CHANGES REGULATIONS ........ 3 
 
PROPOSED CHANGES TO THE ORDER ................................................................................... 10 
 
EXPLANATION AS TO HOW THE ORDER IS TO BE CHANGED ............................................. 17 
 
PART 2 ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT .......................................................................................... 21 
 
CONCLUSION ............................................................................................................................... 22 
 
 
 
 
2 
 
 
INTRODUCTION  
1.1 
Progress Power Limited ("PPL") of registered address 33, Cavendish Square, 
London, W1G 0PW, is the named undertaker in, and was the applicant for, 
The Progress Power (Gas Fired Power Station) Order 2015 (statutory 
instrument 2015 No. 1570), which was made on 23 July 2015. This was 
subject to the Progress Power (Gas Fired Power Station) (Correction) Order 
2016 (statutory instrument 2016 No. 736), made on 11 July 2016 (both 
together referred to herein as the “Order”). 
1.2 
The Order was made pursuant to Sections 114, 115 and 120 of the Planning 
Act 2008 (the "2008 Act"), with the reasons for making the Order contained in 
the Secretary of State's letter dated 23 July 2015.  
1.3 
The Order grants development consent for the construction, operation and 
maintenance of a generating station with a gross rated electrical output of up 
to 299 MWe comprising up to five gas turbine generators (“GTG"), up to five 
exhaust gas emission flue stacks and other development that is part of the 
generating station (referred to in the Order as the "authorised 
development").  Such authorised development includes integral gas and 
electrical cable connections and associated development comprising an 
electrical connection compound, made up of a substation and sealing end 
compound, an access road and a new road junction off the A140. The 
authorised development is described in Schedule 1 to the Order, split out into 
numbered works.   
1.4 
The Order also authorises the compulsory acquisition of land required for the 
authorised development, as well as land that is required to facilitate or is 
incidental to the authorised development. 
1.5 
The authorised development would be located on land at the former Eye 
Airfield located in Eye, Mid Suffolk. The entire project lies within the 
administrative boundary of Mid-Suffolk District Council and within the parishes 
of Eye and Yaxley. The location of the authorised development is shown on 
the Lands Plans (Revision 1.0, Document Reference 2.6) and the various 
components that comprise the authorised development are shown on the 
Works Plans (Revision 1.0, Document Reference 2.7). 
1.6 
PPL has interests in the land subject to the Order; pursuant to an option 
agreement for (1) that part of the Order land on which the Power Generation 
Plant is to be located (Works numbered 1 and 2 in the Order) (2) part of the 
gas connection and (3) part of the electrical connection. 
1.7 
PPL has not yet concluded the exact number of turbines that will be 
constructed (the Order permits up to five GTGs). Nonetheless, through the 
procurement process for the purchase of the necessary equipment, it has 
become apparent that in order to construct the single GTG scenario, minor 
alterations need to be made to some of the parameters and locations of 
various structures consented by the Order. 
 
3 
 
1.8 
PPL hereby applies to the Secretary of State pursuant to Section 153 and 
paragraph 2 of Schedule 6 of the 2008 Act to make changes to the Order that 
are not material (the "NMC Application").  The NMC Application is subject to 
the Infrastructure Planning (Changes to, and Revocation of, Development 
Consent 
Orders) 
Regulations 
2011, 
as 
amended 
(the 
“Changes 
Regulations”). 
1.9 
Part One of this document sets out the proposed non-material amendments 
to the Order sought by PPL and the rationale for doing so. Part Two explains 
why the changes that are requested have either a negligible or non-material 
effect upon the environment. 
1.10 
This document complies with Regulation 4 of the Changes Regulations. 
PART ONE PROPOSED NON MATERIAL CHANGES TO THE ORDER  
 
CONSULTATION AND PROCESS AS DESCRIBED BY THE CHANGES 
REGULATIONS 
2.1 
PPL will submit a Consultation and Publicity Statement, confirming PPL's 
compliance with Regulations 6 and 7 of the Changes Regulations in respect 
of the NMC Application.  In summary, the following has, or is being, 
undertaken by PPL:   
2.1.1 
PPL notified PINS of the NMC Application on 30th June 
2016. 
2.1.2 
PPL is publicising the NMC Application in East Anglian 
Daily Times (being a newspaper local to the site of the 
authorised development) on 19th August 2016 and 
26th August 2016, being two successive weeks.  
Copies of these notices will be included in the 
Consultation and Publicity Statement.   
2.1.3 
PPL sought the written consent of the Secretary of 
State pursuant to Regulation 7(3) of the Changes 
Regulations to consult a smaller body of consultees in 
respect of the NMC Application than would otherwise 
be required pursuant to Regulations 7(1) and (2) of the 
Changes Regulations. The request was sent to the 
Secretary of State on 11th July 2016, with the 
Secretary of State responding on 25th July 2016. The 
Secretary of State's response, and list of consultees 
PPL is therefore required to consult, is contained in 
Appendix One to this document.   
2.1.4 
Accordingly, PPL is consulting those persons identified 
in the Secretary of State's response. A copy of the 
notices sent to these consultees will be included in the 
Consultation and Publicity Statement.   
 
4 
 
 
PROGRESS POWER (GAS FIRED POWER STATION) ORDER 2015 
3.1 
The Order consists of 40 operative provisions, each referred to as articles, and 
11 Schedules. 
3.2 
Schedule 1 describes the authorised development. It consists of numbered 
works 1 to 7. Those numbered works correlate with the Works Plans 
(Document Reference 2.7).  The numbered works are replicated below for 
ease of reference: 
Work No. 1 – a simple cycle gas fired peaking power generating station on the 
site of the former Eye airfields in Eye, Mid Suffolk with a gross rated electrical 
output of up to 299MWe comprising— 
Work No. 1A— 
(a) up to 5 gas turbine generators; and 
(b) up to 5 exhaust gas emission flue stacks, 
Work No. 1B— 
(a) an administration building; 
(b) a store; 
(c) a control room/office/workshop; 
(d) telemetry apparatus; 
(e) a black start diesel generator; 
(f) a raw/fire water tank and demineralised water storage tank; 
(g) a natural gas receiving station and gas treatment compound 
containing— 
(i) a pipeline inspection gauge (PIG) receiving facility; 
(ii) isolation valves, metering, heating, filtering, compression, 
pressure regulation equipment; 
(iii) electricity supply kiosk; and 
 
 
(iv) control and instrumentation kiosks, 
Work No. 1C – a switchyard / banking compound containing up to seven 
transformers, switchgear building and other plant required to manage the 
transmission of electricity, 
Work No. 1D— 
 
5 
 
(a) security infrastructure, including cameras, perimeter fencing and a 
gatehouse; 
(b) site lighting infrastructure, including perimeter lighting columns; 
(c) internal roadways, car parking, pedestrian network, cycle parking, 
hardstanding and water treatment trailers; 
(d) site drainage, attenuation pond and waste management 
infrastructure; 
(e) electricity, water, wastewater and telecommunications and other 
services; 
(f) landscaping including tree planting, fencing and other boundary 
treatments and ecological mitigation; 
(g) high voltage and low voltage cabling, equipment and controls and 
associated telemetry and electrical protection auxiliary cabling; 
(h) underground gas pipeline connection, associated telemetry and 
cathodic protection test / transformer rectifier unit; 
(i) other ancillary equipment; and 
(j) new means of accesses from Potash Lane including permanent road 
surface, drainage, gates and fencing, 
Work No. 2— 
(a) a maintenance compound including new hardstanding, 
(b) landscaping including tree planting, fencing and other boundary 
treatments; and 
(c) site drainage, 
Associated development within the meaning of section 115(2) of the 2008 Act 
in connection with the nationally significant infrastructure project referred to in 
Work No. 1 comprising— 
Work No. 3A— 
(a) an above ground installation (also referred to as a minimum offtake 
connection compound) containing— 
(i) a minimum offtake connection comprising remotely operable 
valves, control and instrumentation kiosks and electrical supply 
kiosks; 
 
6 
 
(ii) a pipeline inspection gauge (PIG) facility, comprising a PIG 
launching facility, emergency control valves, isolation valves, 
control and instrumentation kiosks, and electricity supply kiosks; 
(b) security infrastructure, including cameras, lighting (including 
perimeter lighting columns) and perimeter fencing; 
(c) site drainage and waste management infrastructure; 
(d) electricity and telecommunications connections and other services; 
(e) below ground sacrificial anode pit; and 
(f) landscaping including tree planting, fencing and other boundary 
treatments and ecological mitigation, 
Work No. 3B – new means of access between Potash Lane and numbered 
work 3A, including signing and road markings works, permanent road surface, 
gates, fencing, drainage, infilling, landscaping and tree and hedge removal and 
other incidental works, 
Work No. 4— 
(a) a new underground gas pipeline connection and telemetry cabling, 
approximately 1.7 km in length connecting the natural gas receiving 
station and gas treatment compound in Work No. 1B to Work No. 3A; 
(b) pipeline field marker posts and cathodic protection test/ transformer 
rectifier unit; 
(c) below ground drainage works; 
(d) tree and hedge removal; and  
landscaping including tree planting, fencing and other boundary 
treatments and ecological mitigation. 
Work No. 5— 
(a) 400 kV substation and site office and welfare accommodation; 
(b) 400 kV cable sealing end compound; 
(c) underground high voltage electrical cables and associated telemetry 
and electrical protection auxiliary cabling; 
(d) security infrastructure including perimeter fencing with gates, security 
cameras and site lighting; 
(e) landscaping including bunds, tree planting, fencing and other 
boundary treatments and ecological mitigation; 
(f) site drainage and waste management infrastructure; and 
 
7 
 
(g) internal roadways, car parking, pedestrian network and hardstanding 
for planned maintenance. 
Work No. 6— 
(a) an underground 400 kV electrical cable circuit and associated 
telemetry and electrical protection auxiliary cabling, approximately 1.6 
km in length; and 
(b) joint bays in relation to Work No. 6a. 
Work No. 7 – new means of access between Work No. 5 and the A140 
including road widening, new turning lane, signing and road markings works, 
permanent road surface, gates, fencing, drainage, infilling, landscaping and 
tree and hedge removal and other incidental works, 
In connection with Works No. 1 to 7, and to the extent that they do not otherwise 
form part of any such works, further associated development comprising such 
other works or operations as may be necessary or expedient for the purposes 
of or in connection with the construction, operation and maintenance of the 
works in this Schedule whether or not shown on the plans referred to in the 
Requirements falling within the scope of the works assessed in the 
environmental statement. 
3.3 
Schedule 2 contains the Requirements. Requirement 3 relates to Detailed 
Design, and stipulates that the authorised development must be carried out in 
accordance with: 
3.3.1 
the Works Plans;  
3.3.2 
the Rights of Way, Streets and Access Plan (Revision 
One, Document reference 2.8); and  
3.3.3 
the parameters specified in Table 2 of Requirement 3. 
3.4 
Pursuant to Article 3(2) of the Order, each numbered work identified in 
Schedule 1 of the Order must be situated within its corresponding numbered 
work area shown on the Works Plans.  These numbered work areas are 
maximum limits of deviation, therefore the numbered work can be situated 
anywhere within its numbered work area identified on the Works Plans.   
3.5 
The numbered works must then be constructed within the parameters set by 
Table 2 in Requirement 3 of Schedule 2.  For ease of reference, these 
parameters are replicated below: 
 
 
8 
 
Structure 
Parameters (in respect of 
height, metres above existing 
site level of approximately 48.5 
metres AOD) 
Each gas turbine generator (where 
one or two gas turbine generators are 
constructed) (Part of numbered work 
1A) 
Maximum height: 19 metres  
Maximum length: 30 metres  
Maximum width: 30 metres 
Each gas turbine generator (where 
three, four or five turbine generators 
are constructed) (Part of numbered 
work 1A) 
Maximum height: 10 metres  
Maximum length: 36 metres  
Maximum width: 23 metres 
Each exhaust gas emission flue stack 
(where one or two gas turbine 
generators are constructed) (part of 
numbered work 1A) 
Maximum height: 30 metres  
Minimum height: 25 metres  
Maximum width: 8.4 metres 
Each exhaust gas emission flue stack 
(where three, four or five gas turbine 
generators are constructed) (part of 
numbered work 1A) 
Maximum height: 30 metres  
Minimum height: 25 metres  
Maximum width: 6 metres 
Control room/office/workshop (part of 
numbered work 1B) 
 
Maximum height: 6 metres  
Minimum length: 29 metres  
Maximum width: 23 metres 
Black Start diesel generator (part of 
numbered work 1B) 
Maximum height: 5 metres  
Minimum length: 13 metres  
Maximum width: 5 metres 
Raw/fire water tank (part of numbered 
work 1B) 
Maximum height: 11 metres  
Minimum length: 11 metres  
Maximum width: 11 metres 
Demineralised water tank (part of 
numbered work 1B) 
 
Maximum height: 2 metres  
Maximum length: 2 metres  
Maximum width: 2 metres 
 
9 
 
Structure 
Parameters (in respect of 
height, metres above existing 
site level of approximately 48.5 
metres AOD) 
Gas 
receiving 
station 
(part 
of 
numbered work 1B) 
Maximum height: 3 metres  
Maximum length: 50 metres  
Maximum width: 46 metres 
Switchyard/ 
banking 
compound 
(numbered work 1C) 
Maximum height: 11.3 metres  
Maximum length: 60 metres  
Maximum width: 60  metres 
Switchgear Building (part of 
numbered work 1C) 
 
Maximum height: 11.3 metres  
Maximum length: 21 metres  
Maximum width: 15 metres 
Gatehouse (part of numbered work 
1D) 
Maximum height: 4.5 metres  
Maximum length: 9 metres  
Maximum width: 8 metres 
Above ground installation (numbered 
work 3A) 
Maximum height: 3 metres  
Maximum length: 72 metres  
Maximum width: 52 metres 
Pipeline inspection gauge facility (part 
of numbered work 3A) 
Maximum height: 2 metres 
Maximum length: 36 metres  
Maximum width: 27 metres 
Minimum offtake connection (part of 
numbered work 3A) 
Maximum height: 2 metres  
Maximum length: 36 metres  
Maximum width: 25 metres 
Sealing end compound (part of 
numbered work 5) 
Maximum height: 12.5 metres  
Maximum length: 22 metres  
Maximum width: 45 metres 
Substation: (gas insulated substation) 
– (maximum compound size) (part of 
numbered work 5) 
Maximum height: 12.5 metres  
Maximum length: 80 metres  
 
10 
 
Structure 
Parameters (in respect of 
height, metres above existing 
site level of approximately 48.5 
metres AOD) 
Maximum width: 100 metres 
Substation: (gas insulated substation) 
– (indoor switchgear hall) (part of 
numbered work 5) 
Maximum height: 12.5 metres  
Maximum length: 21 metres  
Maximum width: 62 metres 
 
 
PROPOSED CHANGES TO THE ORDER  
4.1 
The proposed changes to the Order, and why they are needed, are described 
below. 
4.2 
Change One: Parameters of the gas turbine generator (part of numbered work 
1A) 
4.2.1 
A structure known as a diffuser forms part of the GTG. The exhaust 
gas system guides the exhaust gas from the GTG through the diffuser 
to the flue stack. It also acts as a noise insulator from noise emitted 
by the GTG. For the one GTG scenario, the parameters of the GTG 
contained in Schedule 1 of the Order need to be amended in order to 
accommodate the additional length created by the addition of the 
diffuser element of the GTG. 
4.2.2 
In addition, a lube oil system is also attached to the GTG. This 
increases the width of the GTG by an additional 10 metres. This 
lubrication system, complete with tank, pumps, coolers, filters, valves 
and various control and protection devices, furnishes normal 
lubrication and absorption of heat rejection load of the gas turbine. 
Lubricating fluid is circulated to the three main turbine bearings, 
generator bearings, and to the turbine accessory gear and fuel pump. 
Also, lubricating fluid is supplied to the starting means torque 
converter for use as hydraulic fluid as well as for lubrication. 
Additionally, a portion of the pressurized fluid is diverted and filtered 
again for use by hydraulic control devices as control fluid. 
4.2.3 
In summary, for the one GTG solution only, there is a need to 
increase the length of the GTG from a maximum of 30 metres to 50 
metres to accommodate the diffuser system elements of the GTG and 
the width from a maximum of 30 metres to 40 metres to accommodate 
the lube oil system.  This would involve a change to Table 2 in 
Requirement 3, Schedule 2 of the Order.  However, there would be 
no change in the overall footprint of the Power Generation Plant as 
 
11 
 
shown in Figures 5 and 6 of the Environmental Report (see Appendix 
Two). 
4.2.4 
This change is non-material because: 
Whilst there would be an increase in the footprint of the GTG in the 
one GTG scenario, the footprint of each GTG in the five GTG 
scenario would not increase.  The footprint of the single GTG 
would therefore still be smaller overall than the five GTG 
scenario.  
Figures 1, 2, 4, 5 and 6 of the Environmental Report show the 
proposed single GTG scenario and the proposed changes.  
The screening exercise set out in Chapter 4 of the 
Environmental Report identifies the potential for a change in 
the environmental effects predicted in the Environmental 
Statement (“ES”) for landscape and visual effects and air 
quality.  
The updated assessment for landscape and visual effects (Chapter 5 
of the Environmental Report) has concluded that the potential 
significance of effects associated with the proposed changes 
are no greater than those previously assessed for the Project. 
No significant landscape effects are predicted to arise at 
operation. There would be no material change to the 
character of the view from the ES viewpoint locations that 
relate specifically to the Power Generation Plant. The 
magnitude and significance of impact would be lower than for 
the realistic worst case (five GTG scenario) reported in the 
ES. No significant visual effects are predicted to arise at 
operation. Potential cumulative landscape or visual effects in 
relation to the Power Generation Plant site would be the same 
as the original ES. 
The updated assessment for air quality (Chapter 6 of the 
Environmental Report) has concluded that overall, the 
Project, with the proposed changes, will continue to have a 
negligible likely impact on air quality in relation to both human 
and ecological receptors during construction, operation and 
decommissioning. This applies both for the Project alone and 
in combination with other proposed facilities in the vicinity of 
the Project site.  
4.3 
Change Two: Parameters of the Flue Stack (part of numbered work 1A) 
4.3.1 
The flue stack consists of a lower and an upper stack section. For the 
single GTG scenario, the lower section, being that part of the flue 
stack up to a height of 30 metres, is thicker (and therefore wider) than 
the upper section of the flue stack. This is because the lower stack 
section consists of greater layers of casing, which is self-supporting, 
and insulation.   
 
12 
 
4.3.2 
At present, the Order does not account for this difference in width 
between the two sections of the flue stack.  Accordingly, there is a 
need to increase the width of the flue stack from 8.4 metres to 11 
metres up to and including a height of 16.5 metres AOD and from 8.4 
metres to 10 metres thereafter to a height of 30 metres. The increase 
in the stack width for the upper section is required to enable the GTG 
to meet the noise limits under the Development Consent Order 
through the inclusion of a silencer. This would involve a change to 
Table 2 in Requirement 3, Schedule 2 of the Order.     
4.3.3 
This change is non-material because: 
The visible stack height from each of the key viewpoint locations does 
not change, and this element would be less noticeable than 
the approved scheme comprising a row of up to 5 flue stacks 
of the same height. 
Figures 1, 2, 4, 5 and 6 of the Environmental Report show the 
proposed single GTG scenario and the proposed changes.  
The screening exercise set out in Chapter 4 of the Environmental 
Report identifies the potential for a change in the 
environmental effects predicted in the ES for landscape and 
visual effects and air quality.  
Chapter 4 also states that the effects of the proposed changes on the 
impact on the setting of Eye Castle and Eye Conservation 
Area have been reviewed and the conclusion is that there 
would be no different likely significant environmental effects 
to those previously reported.  
An updated assessment for landscape and visual effects (Chapter 5 
of the Environmental Report) has concluded that the potential 
significance of effects associated with the proposed changes 
are no greater than those previously assessed for the 
approved Project. No significant landscape effects are 
predicted to arise during operation. There would be no 
material change to the character of the view from the ES 
viewpoint locations that relate specifically to the Power 
Generation Plant. The assessed magnitude and significance 
of impact would be lower than the realistic worst case (five 
GTG scenario) reported in the ES. No significant visual effects 
are predicted to arise at operation. Potential cumulative 
landscape or visual effects in relation to the Power Generation 
Plant site would be the same as the original ES.  
An updated assessment for air quality (Chapter 6 of the Environmental 
Report) has concluded that overall, the Project, with the 
proposed changes, will continue to have a negligible likely 
impact on air quality in relation to both human and ecological 
receptors 
during 
construction, 
operation 
and 
 
13 
 
decommissioning. This applies both for the Project alone and 
in combination with other proposed facilities in the vicinity of 
the Project site. 
4.4 
Change Three: Black Start Diesel Generator (part of numbered work 1B) 
4.4.1 
The application for the authorised development assessed a realistic 
worst case scenario, which involved an assessment of up to five 
GTGs. 
4.4.2 
As one GTG is larger in capacity than the individual capacity of, say, 
five smaller GTGs, more than one black start diesel generator would 
be required to start up a generating station with a single GTG.  Where 
two or more GTGs are constructed, as the GTG would be smaller in 
capacity, a single black start diesel generator can be used to start 
each GTG individually. In total, three black start diesel generators 
would be needed in the single GTG scenario only.   
4.4.3 
The size of the black start diesel generator is also slightly longer than 
originally predicted; the length of each generator is 4 metres longer, 
meaning that the parameters need to increase from 13 metres to 17 
metres. This applies to all GTG scenarios.   
4.4.4 
In summary: 
in the single GTG scenario only, the number of black start diesel 
generators needs to increase from one to three. This would 
involve an amendment to Schedule 1 of the Order; and  
in all GTG scenarios the size of the black start diesel generators 
needs to increase in length from 13 metres to 17 metres.  This 
would involve a change to Table 2 in Requirement 3, 
Schedule 2 of the Order.  
4.4.5 
This change is non-material because: 
The increase in the number of black start diesel generators with the 
single GTG scenario compared to the single generator with 
the five GTG scenario means that the footprint of the black 
start generators will increase.  However, due to other 
changes, the overall area of the Power Generation Plant will 
not increase.  
Figures 1, 2, 4, 5 and 6 of the Environmental Report show the 
proposed single GTG scenario and the proposed changes.  
The screening exercise set out in Chapter 4 of the Environmental 
Report identifies the potential for a change in the 
environmental effects predicted in the Environmental 
Statement.  No change in impacts is predicted as a result of 
these changes for each of the environmental topics 
considered. In respect of air quality there will be no change in 
 
14 
 
emissions as a result of the change which will also not affect 
any ecological receptors.  There will be no change in noise 
and vibration levels.  The change will not affect any heritage 
assets. 
The proposed changes to the black start diesel generators are not 
considered to affect landscape or visual impacts given they 
are low level structures (5 metres). A change of 4 metres is 
de-minimus and would not be noticeable in the context of the 
built infrastructure (see Chapter 5 of the Environmental 
Report). 
4.5 
Change Four: Natural gas receiving station and gas treatment compound (part 
of numbered work 1B) 
4.5.1 
Whilst the final gas filter (which forms part of the of natural gas 
receiving station) can be constructed as part of the prescribed 
parameters of the Order set out in Table 2 of Requirement 3 of 
Schedule 2 to the Order, there is a requirement for there to be a 
separation distance between the various filter mechanisms to allow a 
flow of natural gas.  The separation distance is required between the 
natural gas receiving station and the gas treatment compound. The 
buffer volume is provided in the gas piping downstream of the gas 
receiving station to ensure a smooth switch-over to the stand-by 
regulator within the allowable pressure gradients, should the safety 
shut off valve or the operating regulator close. 
4.5.2 
The gas treatment compound with the block and vent valve needs to 
be positioned as close as possible to the GTG, in order to reduce the 
piping between the final filter and the GTG. 
4.5.3 
For all GTG scenarios, two smaller compounds, rather than one larger 
compound, are therefore needed in order to accommodate the 
separation of the natural gas receiving station from the gas treatment 
compound.  
4.5.4 
The total area for the compound currently consented by the Order is 
50 metres x 46 metres; a total of 2,300 square metres. 
4.5.5 
The dimensions for two smaller compounds add up to 2,264 square 
metres in total, with the following dimensions: 
Compound 1 – Natural Gas Receiving Station (5 metres (height), 50 
metres (length) and 36 metres (width)); 
Compound 2 – Gas Treatment Compound (5 metres (height), 29 
metres (length) and 16 metres (width)). 
4.5.6 
This would involve a change to Table 2 in Requirement 3, Schedule 2 
of the Order.   
4.5.7 
This change, therefore, involves a reduction in the built footprint. 
 
15 
 
4.5.8 
This change is non-material because: 
The natural gas receiving station and gas treatment compound will 
have a smaller overall footprint than the footprint permitted in 
the Order (being referenced as the gas receiving station in 
Table 2 of Requirement 3, which for the avoidance of doubt is 
a reference to natural gas receiving station and gas treatment 
compound). 
Figures 1, 2, 4, 5 and 6 of the Environmental Report show the 
proposed changes.  
The screening exercise set out in Chapter 4 of the Environmental 
Report identifies the potential for a change in the 
environmental effects predicted in the Environmental Report. 
No change in impacts is predicted as a result of these 
changes for each of the environmental topics considered.  
The proposed changes to the natural gas receiving station and gas 
treatment compound are not considered to affect landscape 
or visual impacts given they are low level structures and there 
would be an overall reduction in the total footprint (see 
Chapter 5 of the Environmental Report). 
4.6 
Change Five: Fin fan cooler (numbered work 1D(i)) 
4.6.1 
The realistic worst case scenario of five GTGs and five stacks 
at 30m assessed in the ES accounted for GTG cooling with a 
built in cooling system within each GTG. This design is 
common for smaller GTGs. Throughout the original ES, the 
assessment of the GTG considered the built-in cooling 
system.   
4.6.2 
For a single GTG, the cooling system is not contained within 
the GTG but is in a standalone structure (Fin Fan Cooler) to 
allow for a closed water cooling system and to transfer the 
heat produced by the generator coolers and the gas turbine / 
generator lube oil system via the fin fan cooler to the ambient 
air.  
4.6.3 
The Fin Fan Cooler required for the single GTG scenario 
would be 13m long, 10m wide and 6m high.  
4.6.4 
Even with a stand alone Fin Fan Cooler, the total built footprint 
of the single GTG scenario is smaller than the larger 
consented five GTG scenario (see Figures 5 and 6 of the 
Environmental Report).    
4.6.5 
This would involve an amendment to Schedule 1 of the Order 
and a change to Table 2 in Requirement 3, Schedule 2 of the 
Order for the single GTG scenario. 
 
16 
 
4.6.6 
This change is non-material because:  
Whilst there would be an increase in the footprint of the GTG in the 
one GTG scenario, even with a stand alone Fin Fan Cooler, 
the total built footprint of the single GTG scenario is smaller 
than the larger consented five GTG scenario (see Figures 5 
and 6 of the Environmental Report).   
Figures 1, 2, 4, 5 and 6 of the Environmental Report show the 
proposed single GTG scenario and the proposed changes.  
The screening exercise set out in Chapter 4 of the 
Environmental Report identifies the potential for a change in 
the environmental effects predicted in the ES for landscape 
and visual effects and air quality. The updated assessment for 
air quality (Chapter 6 of the Environmental Report) has 
concluded that overall, the Project, with proposed changes, 
will continue to have a negligible likely impact on air quality in 
relation to both human and ecological receptors during 
construction, operation and decommissioning. This applies 
both for the Project alone and in combination with other 
proposed facilities in the vicinity of the Project site.  
The updated assessment for landscape and visual effects (Chapter 5 
of the Environmental Report) has concluded that the potential 
significance of effects associated with the proposed changes 
are no greater than those previously assessed for the 
approved Project. Whilst in the single GTG scenario this 
cooling equipment is separate from the GTG (unlike in the 
three to five GTG scenarios where the cooling equipment is 
integrated into the GTGs), there would still be considerably 
less infrastructure in the single GTG scenario than the five 
GTG scenario (the range of one to five GTGs being already 
consented in the Development Consent Order). No significant 
landscape effects are predicted to arise at operation. There 
would be no material change to the character of the view from 
the ES viewpoint locations that relate specifically to the Power 
Generation Plant. The magnitude and significance of impact 
would be lower than for the realistic worst case (five GTG 
scenario) reported in the Environmental Statement. No 
significant visual effects are predicted to arise at operation. 
Potential cumulative landscape or visual effects in relation to 
the Power Generation Plant site would be the same as the 
original ES. 
 
 
 
17 
 
 
EXPLANATION AS TO HOW THE ORDER IS TO BE CHANGED 
5.1 
The table below sets out the current wording as contained in the Order, alongside a summary as to how PPL considers the 
Order should be amended to accommodate the necessary changes.  A draft of the order setting out these changes is included 
in the NMC Application.    
Change 
Number
Building or Structure 
Summary 
of 
what 
is 
currently 
authorised under the Order  
Suggested Change 
One  
Gas Turbine Generator 
(GTG) 
Table 2, Requirement 3, Schedule 2:  
Each gas turbine generator (where one 
or two gas turbine generators are 
constructed) (Part of numbered work 
1A): 
Maximum height: 19 metres above 48.5 
metres AOD 
Maximum length: 30 metres  
Maximum width: 30 metres  
Amend Table 2, Requirement 3, Schedule 2 
as set out in Appendix Four so as to permit 
the following parameters for a single GTG 
scenario:  
Maximum height: 19 metres above 48.5 
metres AOD 
Maximum length: 50 metres  
Maximum width: 40 metres 
Two  
Flue Stack 
Table 2, Requirement 3, Schedule 2:  
Each exhaust gas emission flue stack 
(where 
one 
or 
two 
gas 
turbine 
generators are constructed) (part of 
numbered work 1A): 
Maximum height: 30 metres above 48.5 
metres AOD 
Amend Table 2, Requirement 3, Schedule 2 
as set out in Appendix Four so as to permit 
the following parameters for a single GTG 
scenario:  
Maximum Width: 11.0 metres up to and 
including a height of 16.5 metres above 
48.5m AOD and 10 metres from a height of 
 
18 
 
Change 
Number
Building or Structure 
Summary 
of 
what 
is 
currently 
authorised under the Order  
Suggested Change 
Minimum height: 25 metres above 48.5 
metres AOD 
Maximum width: 8.4 metres  
16.5 metres above 48.5m AOD to a height 
of 30 metres above 48.5m AOD. 
 
 
Three  
Black 
start 
diesel 
generator  
1. Schedule 1: 
 
Numbered work 1B authorises 
development 
comprising….(e) 
black start diesel generator 
2. Table 2, Requirement 3, Schedule 
2:  
 
Black start diesel generator (part of 
numbered work 1B): 
 
Maximum height: 5.0 metres above 
48.5 metres AOD 
 
Maximum length: 13.0 metres 
 
Maximum width: 5.0 metres  
 
1. Amend Schedule 1, Numbered work 
1B(e) as set out in Appendix Three.   
2. Amend 
Table 
2, 
Requirement 
3, 
Schedule 2 as set out in Appendix Four 
so as to permit the following parameters 
for all GTG scenarios:  
Maximum length: 17 metres   
 
Four 
Natural gas receiving 
station and gas treatment 
compound 
Table 2, Requirement 3, Schedule 2:  
Amend Table 2, Requirement 3, Schedule 2 
as set out in Appendix Four so as to permit 
 
19 
 
Change 
Number
Building or Structure 
Summary 
of 
what 
is 
currently 
authorised under the Order  
Suggested Change 
 
Gas receiving station (part of numbered 
work 1B): 
 
Maximum height: 3 metres above 48.5 
metres  AOD 
Maximum length: 50 metres 
Maximum width: 46 metres 
 
the following parameters for all GTG 
scenarios: 
"Natural gas receiving station (part of 
numbered work 1B): 
Maximum height: 5 metres above 48.5 
metres AOD 
Maximum length: 50 metres  
Maximum width 36 metres"  
 
"Gas 
treatment 
compound 
(part 
of 
numbered work 1B): 
 
Maximum height: 5 metres above 48.5 
metres AOD 
 
Maximum length: 29 metres  
 
Maximum width: 16 metres"  
 
 
Five 
Fin fan cooler - lube oil 
and generator 
Schedule 1: 
1. Amend Schedule 1, Numbered work 1D 
as set out in Appendix Three. 
2. Amend Table 2, Requirement 3, 
Schedule 2 as set out in Appendix Four so 
 
20 
 
Change 
Number
Building or Structure 
Summary 
of 
what 
is 
currently 
authorised under the Order  
Suggested Change 
Numbered 
work 
1D 
authorises 
development 
comprising...(i) 
other 
ancillary development  
 
as to permit the following parameters for a 
single GTG scenario: 
Maximum height: 6 metres 
Maximum length: 13 metres 
Maximum width: 10 metres 
 
 
 
 
21 
 
5.2 
A draft Progress Power (Gas Fired Power Station) (Amendment) Order has 
been submitted with this NMC Application incorporating the changes set out 
above. A track changed version of Schedule 1 of the Order is included at 
Appendix Three of this Application. A track changed version of Table 2 of 
Requirement 3 of Schedule 2 of the Order is included at Appendix Four of this 
Application.  
 
PART 2 ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT 
6.1 
The Environmental Report provides an overview of the potential impacts of 
the proposed changes and compares these to the original ES submitted to 
support the application for the Order.  The following topics were screened out 
of requiring updated assessments as the proposed changes did not have the 
potential to result in any different effects to those identified in the original ES 
(the reasoning for this screening out is contained in Chapter 4 of the 
Environmental Report): 
 
Noise and Vibration; 
 
Ecology and Nature Conservation; 
 
Cultural Heritage and Archaeology; 
 
Water Quality and Resources; 
 
Geology, Ground Conditions and Agriculture; 
 
Traffic, Transport and Access; 
 
Socio-Economics; and 
 
Health and Waste.  
6.2 
Accordingly, the only environmental topics that have the potential to result in 
any different effects to those identified in the original ES are air quality and 
landscape and visual.  The outcome of the updated assessments for air quality 
and landscape and visual confirmed that the significance of the impact would 
be reduced or would not result in new of different likely significant 
environmental effects to those previously reported. It is therefore considered 
that the proposed changes would constitute non-material changes.  Reference 
is made to the Environmental Report in Appendix Two for a complete 
explanation and justification for this conclusion.  
6.3 
COMPLIANCE WITH THE REGULATIONS AND THE GUIDANCE 
6.4 
The proposed changes will not result in the need to acquire any additional 
land. The screening assessment has confirmed that no update is required to 
the Habitat Regulations Assessment as there is no change to the impacts on 
any sites of European importance.   
 
22 
 
 
CONCLUSION  
7.1 
The outcome of the screening and updated assessments confirms that the 
conclusions in the ES remain valid for the proposed changes.  The 
significance of the impact would be unchanged or reduced. It is therefore 
considered that the proposed changes are non-material amendments for the 
purposes of the Infrastructure Planning (Changes to, and Revocation of, 
Development Consent Orders) Regulations 2011.  Accordingly, PPL submits 
that the proposed changes as outlined in section 4 of this Document can be 
consented by the Secretary as non-material changes.   
  
 
 
 
 
Appendix 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Letter Response from the Secretary of 
State confirming the consultees PPL is to 
consult with under Regulation 7 of the 
Changes Regulations 
 
 
Department for Business, Energy &  
Industrial Strategy 
3 Whitehall Place, 
London SW1A 2AW 
T:  +44 (0) 300 068 2825 
E: Laura.Allen@decc.gsi.gov.uk 
www.gov.uk/beis 
Chris McKerrow 
Project Manager 
Watt Power 
(By e-mail) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
25 July 2016 
 
 
 
 
Dear Mr McKerrow 
 
PROGRESS POWER (GAS FIRED POWER STATION) ORDER 2015 – PROPOSED NON-
MATERIAL CHANGE APPLICATION 
 
Thank you for your e-mail of 11 July 2016 with two attachments on behalf of Progress Power 
Limited (“the Applicant”). It is noted that the attached documents consist of: i) a Microsoft Excel 
spreadsheet of the proposed consultees (highlighted in green) in respect of changes to the 
development consent order for the Progress Power Generating Station; and ii) separate advice 
on this matter from the Planning Inspectorate of 7 July 2016. 
 
The Applicant has requested that the Secretary of State give written consent under regulation 
7(3) of the Infrastructure Planning (Changes to, and Revocation of, Development Consent 
Orders) Regulations 2011 (as amended) (“the 2011 Regulations”), such that the Applicant does 
not need to consult those persons specified and highlighted in red in the spreadsheet, as it is 
not considered that they will be directly affected by them.  
 
The Secretary of State has considered the request and agrees that, with the exception of 
Highways England (referred to incorrectly as the ‘Highways Agency’ in the spreadsheet), 
Breckland Council, Suffolk Coastal District Council, Waveney District Council and 
Cambridgeshire County Council (who it is noted are listed in the spreadsheet as a “relevant 
local authority” within the meaning given by section 102(5) of the Planning Act 2008), the 
Applicant does not need to consult directly with those persons specified and highlighted in red in 
spreadsheet, as they will not be directly affected by the changes being proposed. Accordingly, 
this letter is written consent under regulation 7(3) of the Infrastructure Planning (Changes to, 
and Revocation of, Development Consent Orders) Regulations 2011 such that consultation 
under regulation 7 of those persons specified is not required. 
 
In taking this decision, the Secretary of State notes there will be public consultation on the 
proposals following submission of the application for non-material changes to the Order in line 
with the requirements in regulation 20 of the 2011 Regulations. 
 
 
 
Finally, the Secretary of State`s consent in this matter should not be taken as indicating 
approval for any other aspects of the proposed changes to the Progress Power Generating 
Station which fall to the Secretary of State for consideration and determination. 
 
 
Yours sincerely, 
 
 
Laura Allen 
 
 
Laura Allen 
Case Manager, Energy Infrastructure Planning 
 
 
 
 
Appendix 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Environmental Report 
THE PROGRESS POWER
(GAS FIRED POWER
STATION) ORDER 2015
NON-MATERIAL CHANGE TO DEVELOPMENT
CONSENT ORDER
FOR PLANNING
AUGUST 2016
Project no: 70023845
Date: August 2016
–
WSP | Parsons Brinckerhoff
The Forum
Barnfield Road
Exeter
EX1 1QR
Tel: +44 (0) 1392 229 700
Fax: +44 (0) 1392 229 701
www.wsp-pb.com
THE PROGRESS POWER (GAS
FIRED POWER STATION) ORDER
2015
NON-MATERIAL CHANGE TO
DEVELOPMENT CONSENT ORDER
Progress Power Limited
ii
Progress Power (Gas Fired Power Station) Order 2015
WSP | Parsons Brinckerhoff
Progress Power Limited
Project No 70023845
August 2016
P R O D U C T I O N  T E A M
CLIENT
Chris McKerrow
Murray Davies
WSP | PARSONS BRINCKERHOFF
Associate
Amy Hallam
Associate Director
Colin Turnbull
Technical Director
Technical Director
Principal Landscape
Architect
Principal Archaeologist
Principal Noise Consultant
Clare Hennessey
Bethan Tuckett-Jones
Katie Lewis
Alison Plummer
Pete Bushell
iii
Progress Power (Gas Fired Power Station) Order 2015
WSP | Parsons Brinckerhoff
Progress Power Limited
Project No 70023845
August 2016
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY ..............................................................5
2
INTRODUCTION ...........................................................................6
3
PROPOSED NON-MATERIAL CHANGES ..................................7
3.1
INTRODUCTION ............................................................................................. 7
3.2
PARAMETERS OF GAS TURBINE GENERATOR ......................................... 7
3.3
PARAMETERS OF FLUE STACK .................................................................. 8
3.4
BLACK START DIESEL GENERATOR .......................................................... 8
3.5
NATURAL GAS RECEIVING STATION AND GAS TREATMENT
COMPOUND ................................................................................................... 9
3.6
FIN FAN COOLER .......................................................................................... 9
3.7
SUMMARY ..................................................................................................... 9
4
SCREENING ...............................................................................11
4.1
METHODOLOGY .......................................................................................... 11
4.2
SCREENING ................................................................................................. 13
5
LANDSCAPE ASSESSMENT ....................................................22
5.1
INTRODUCTION ........................................................................................... 22
5.2
METHODOLOGY .......................................................................................... 24
5.3
SUMMARY OF ORIGINAL ASSESSMENT ................................................... 25
5.4
UPDATED ASSESSMENT ............................................................................ 26
5.5
CONCLUSIONS ............................................................................................ 35
6
AIR QUALITY .............................................................................36
6.1
INTRODUCTION ........................................................................................... 36
6.2
SCREENING OF CONSTRUCTION/DECOMMISSIONING IMPACTS ........... 36
6.3
OPERATIONAL IMPACTS............................................................................ 37
iv
Progress Power (Gas Fired Power Station) Order 2015
WSP | Parsons Brinckerhoff
Progress Power Limited
Project No 70023845
August 2016
6.4
SUMMARY OF ORIGINAL ASSESSMENT ................................................... 39
6.5
UPDATED ASSESSMENT ............................................................................ 40
6.6
CONCLUSIONS ............................................................................................ 43
7
CONCLUSIONS ..........................................................................44
FIGURES
FIGURE 1 – SITE PLAN
FIGURE 2 – GAS TURBINE GENERATOR PLAN
FIGURE 4 – BLACK START GENERATOR PLAN AND ELEVATIONS
FIGURE 5 – GAS TURBINE GENERATOR OVERLAY PLAN
FIGURE 6 – OVERLAY GAS TURBINE GENERATOR, BLACK START
GENERATOR AND FIN FAN COOLER ELEVATIONS
APPENDICES
APPENDIX 5 - PHOTOMONTAGES
 5
Progress Power (Gas Fired Power Station) Order 2015
WSP | Parsons Brinckerhoff
Progress Power Limited
Project No 70023845
August 2016
1
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
1.1.1
Progress Power Limited submitted an application for Development Consent for the
Progress Generating Station in March 2014. The Progress Power (Gas Fired Power
Station) Order 2015 (the Development Consent Order) was made on 23 July 2015.
The Development Consent Order grants consent for a gas-fired peaking plant with
up to five gas turbine generators on land at the former Eye Airfield located at Eye,
Mid Suffolk.  The Progress Generating Station would operate as a Simple Cycle Gas
Turbine peaking plant and would be designed to provide an electrical output of up to
299 Megawatts.
1.1.2
Following the grant of the Development Consent Order, Progress Power Limited has
identified the following non-material, minor changes to the parameters of  the Power
Generation Plant element of the Progress Generating Station:
à Increase in size of the Gas Turbine Generator (relates to single Gas Turbine
Generator scenario only).
à Increase in width of flue stack (relates to single Gas Turbine Generator scenario
only).
à Increase the permitted number of black start diesel generators from one to three
(relates to single Gas Turbine Generator scenario only);
à Amend the permitted natural gas receiving station and gas treatment compound
so as to permit the construction of two separate smaller compounds (relates to all
Gas Turbine Generator scenarios);
à Include an express reference to an external fin fan cooler (relates to single Gas
Turbine Generator scenario only); and
à Dimensions of black start diesel generator (relates to all Gas Turbine Generator
scenarios).
1.1.3
This report is submitted in support of a non-material change application under the
Infrastructure Planning (Changes to, and Revocation of, Development Consent
Orders) Regulations 2011 (‘the Regulations’).  The report provides an overview of
the potential impacts of the proposed changes and compares these to the original
Environmental Statement (ES) submitted to support the application for the
Development Consent Order.
1.1.4
The following topics were screened out of requiring updated assessments as the
proposed changes did not have the potential to result in any different effects to those
identified in the original ES (the reason for this Screening out is explained later on in
this Report):
à Noise and Vibration;
6
Progress Power (Gas Fired Power Station) Order 2015
WSP | Parsons Brinckerhoff
Progress Power Limited
Project No 70023845
August 2016
à Ecology and Nature Conservation;
à Cultural Heritage and Archaeology;
à Water Quality and Resources;
à Geology, Ground Conditions and Agriculture;
à Traffic, Transport and Access;
à Socio-Economics; and
à Health and Waste.
1.1.5
Accordingly, the only environmental topics that have the potential to result in any
different effects to those identified in the original ES are air quality and landscape.
The outcome of the updated assessments for air quality and landscape confirmed
that the significance of the impact would be reduced or would not result in any new
or different likely significant environmental effects to those previously reported. It is
therefore considered that the proposed changes would constitute a non-material
change.
2
INTRODUCTION
2.1.1
Progress Power Limited (PPL) submitted an application for Development Consent for
the Progress Generating Station in March 2014. The Progress Power (Gas Fired
Power Station) Order 2015 (the Development Consent Order) was made by the
Secretary of State on 23 July 2015.  The Development Consent Order granted
consent for a gas-fired peaking plant with up to five gas turbine generators (GTGs)
on land at the former Eye Airfield located at Eye, Mid Suffolk.  The Power Generating
Station would operate as a Simple Cycle Gas Turbine (SCGT) peaking plant and
would be designed to provide an electrical output of up to 299 Megawatts (MW).
The plant would be fuelled by natural gas, supplied to the site by a new gas pipeline
connecting the Power Generation Plant element of the Power Generating Station to
the existing National Gas Transmission System (NTS).
2.1.2
Following the granting of the Development Consent Order, PPL has identified some
non-material, minor changes to the parameters of elements of the Power Generation
Plant (as described in Chapter 3).
2.1.3
This report is submitted in support of a non-material change application under the
Infrastructure Planning (Changes to, and Revocation of, Development Consent
Orders) Regulations 2011 (‘the Regulations’).  The report provides an overview of
the potential impacts of the proposed changes and compares these to the original
Environmental Statement (ES) submitted in support of the application for the
Development Consent Order (Parsons Brinckerhoff, March 2014) which reported the
findings of the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA).
2.1.4
The original EIA considered a ‘realistic worst case scenario’ which was identified on
7
Progress Power (Gas Fired Power Station) Order 2015
WSP | Parsons Brinckerhoff
Progress Power Limited
Project No 70023845
August 2016
a topic by topic basis. All of the environmental topics assumed that five GTGs was
the realistic worst case scenario.
2.1.5
This report demonstrates that the potential impacts associated with the proposed
changes would either be reduced or would not result in any new or different likely
significant environmental effects to those previously reported. The proposed
changes can therefore be described as non-material for the purpose of Part 1 of the
Regulations.
2.1.6
The Report is supported by the results of an environmental screening exercise
(Chapter 4) and updated assessments for landscape and visual impacts (Chapter 5)
and air quality (Chapter 6).
3
PROPOSED NON-MATERIAL CHANGES
3.1
INTRODUCTION
3.1.1
The proposed changes are shown on the following Figures:
à Figure 1 – Site Plan;
à Figure 2 – Gas Turbine Generator Plan;
à Figure 4 – Black Start Generator Plan and Elevations;
à Figure 5 – Gas Turbine Generator Overlay Plan; and
à Figure 6 – Overlay Gas Turbine Generator, Black Start Generator and Fin Fan
Cooler Elevations.
3.2
PARAMETERS OF GAS TURBINE GENERATOR
3.2.1
A structure known as a ‘diffuser’ forms part of the GTG. The exhaust gas system
guides the exhaust gas from the GTG through the diffuser to the flue stack. It also
acts as a noise insulator from noise emitted by the GTG. For the single GTG
scenario, the length of the GTG needs to be amended in order to accommodate the
additional length created by the addition of the diffuser element of the GTG.
3.2.2
In addition, a lube oil system is also attached to the GTG. This increases the width of
the GTG by an additional 10 metres (from 30 metres to 40 metres). This lubrication
system, complete with tank, pumps, coolers, filters, valves and various control and
protection devices, furnishes normal lubrication and absorption of heat rejection load
of the gas turbine. Lubricating fluid is circulated to the three main turbine bearings,
generator bearings, and to the turbine accessory gear and fuel pump. Also,
lubricating fluid is supplied to the starting torque converter for use as hydraulic fluid
as well as for lubrication. Additionally, a portion of the pressurized fluid is diverted
and filtered again for use by hydraulic control devices as control fluid.
3.2.3
For the single GTG scenario only, there is a need to increase the maximum length of
8
Progress Power (Gas Fired Power Station) Order 2015
WSP | Parsons Brinckerhoff
Progress Power Limited
Project No 70023845
August 2016
the GTG from 30 metres to 50 metres to accommodate the diffuser system elements
of the GTG and the width from a maximum of 30 metres to 40 metres to
accommodate the lube oil system.
3.3
PARAMETERS OF FLUE STACK
3.3.1
The flue stack consists of a lower and an upper stack section. The lower section,
being that part of the flue stack up to a height of 16.5 metres, is thicker (and
therefore wider) than the upper section of the flue stack. This is because the lower
stack section consists of greater layers of casing, which is self-supporting, and
insulation.  The upper section includes the silencer and an outer stack pipe (round or
square) with internal insulation.  In the silencer, ‘splitters’ are installed to reduce the
noise of the GTG.
3.3.2
The parameters set out in Requirement 3 of the Development Consent Order, did not
account for this difference.  Accordingly, for the single GTG scenario, there is a need
to increase the width of the flue stack from 8.4 metres to 11 metres up to a height of
16.5 metres and 8.4 metres to 10 metres from 16.5 metres to 30 metres.  The
increase in the stack width for the upper section is required to enable the GTG to
meet the noise limits under the Development Consent Order through the inclusion of
a silencer.
3.4
BLACK START DIESEL GENERATOR
3.4.1
As one GTG is larger in capacity than the individual capacity of, say, five smaller
GTGs, more than one black start diesel generator would be required to start up a
generating station with a single GTG.  Where two or more GTGs are constructed, as
the GTG would be smaller in capacity, a single black start diesel generator can be
used to start each GTG individually. In total, three black start diesel generators
would be needed in the single GTG scenario.  This requires a change to Schedule 1
of the Development Consent Order (numbered work 1B).
3.4.2
The black start generator is used to start the GTGs in the event of a failure / blackout
on the National Grid Electricity System.
3.4.3
The size of the black start diesel generator is also slightly longer than originally
predicted; the length of each generator is 4 metres longer, meaning that the
parameters need to increase from 13 metres to 17 metres.  This applies to all GTG
scenarios.  This requires a change to Table 2 in Requirement 3 of Schedule 2.
3.4.4
In summary:
à in the single GTG scenario only, the number of black start diesel generators
needs to increase from one to three; and
à in all GTG scenarios, the size of the black start diesel generators needs to
increase in length from 13 metres to 17 metres.
9
Progress Power (Gas Fired Power Station) Order 2015
WSP | Parsons Brinckerhoff
Progress Power Limited
Project No 70023845
August 2016
3.5
NATURAL GAS RECEIVING STATION AND GAS TREATMENT COMPOUND
3.5.1
Whilst the final gas filter (which forms part of the of natural gas receiving station) can
be constructed as part of the prescribed parameters, there is a requirement for there
to be a separation distance between the various filter mechanisms to allow a flow of
natural gas.
3.5.2
Two smaller compounds, rather than one larger compound, are therefore needed in
order to accommodate the separation of the natural gas receiving station and the
gas treatment compound.
3.5.3
The total area for the compound currently consented by the Order is 50 metres x 46
metres; a total of 2300 square metres.
3.5.4
The dimensions for two smaller compounds add up to 2,264 square metres in total,
with the following dimensions:
à Compound 1 - Natural Gas Receiving Station (5 metres (height), 36 metres
(width) and 50 metres (length));
à Compound 2 - Gas Treatment Compound (5 metres (height), 16 metres (width)
and 29 metres (length)).
3.5.5
This change, therefore, involves a reduction in the total built footprint.
3.6
FIN FAN COOLER
3.6.1
The realistic worst case scenario of five GTGs and five stacks at 30m assessed in
the ES accounted for GTG cooling with a built in cooling system within each GTG.
This design is common for smaller GTGs. Throughout the original ES, the
assessment of the GTG considered the built-in cooling system.
3.6.2
For a single GTG, the cooling system is not contained within the GTG but is in a
standalone structure (Fin Fan Cooler) to allow for a closed water cooling system and
to transfer the heat produced by the generator coolers and the gas turbine/generator
lube oil system via the fin fan cooler to the ambient air.
3.6.3
The Fin Fan Cooler required for the single GTG scenario would be 13m long, 10m
wide and 6m high.
3.6.4
Even with a stand alone Fin Fan Cooler, the total built footprint of the single GTG
scenario is smaller than the larger consented five GTG scenario (see – Figures 5
and 6).
3.7
SUMMARY
3.7.1
Table 3.1 provides a summary of the proposed changes to the dimensions.
10
Progress Power (Gas Fired Power Station) Order 2015
WSP | Parsons Brinckerhoff
Progress Power Limited
Project No 70023845
August 2016
Table 3-1 Impact Assessment Screening
BUILDING OR
STRUCTURE
SUMMARY OF WHAT IS
CURRENTLY
CONSENTED
CHANGE
Gas Turbine Generator
(GTG)
Each GTG (where one or
two GTGs are constructed)
(Part of numbered work
1A):
Maximum height: 19
metres (metres above 48.5
AOD)
Maximum length: 30
metres
Maximum width: 30 metres
For a single GTG only:
Maximum height:
unchanged
Maximum length: increase
from 30 to 50 metres.
Maximum width:  increase
from 30 to 40 metres
Flue Stack
Each exhaust gas emission
flue stack (Part of
numbered work 1A):
Maximum Height: 30
metres (metres above 48.5
AOD)
Minimum Height: 25 metres
(metres above 48.5 AOD)
Maximum width: 10 metres
For single GTG only:
Maximum & minimum
heights: unchanged.
Maximum width: increase
from 8.4 to 11 metres up to
a maximum height of 16.5
metres (metres above 48.5
AOD) and increase from
8.4 to 10 metres from 16.5
metres to 30 metres
(metres above 48.5 AOD)
Black start diesel generator Black start diesel generator
(Part of numbered work
1B):
Maximum Height: 5 metres
(metres above 48.5 AOD)
Maximum length: 13
metres
Maximum width: 5 metres
In the single GTG scenario
only, increase from a single
black start diesel generator
to three black start diesel
generators
For all GTG Scenarios:
Maximum height:
unchanged
Maximum length: increase
from 13 to 17 metres
Maximum width:
unchanged
Natural gas receiving
station and gas treatment
compound
Natural gas receiving
station and gas treatment
compound (Part of
numbered work 1B):
For all GTG scenarios:
Split into two areas.
Natural gas receiving
station:
Maximum height: 5 metres
11
Progress Power (Gas Fired Power Station) Order 2015
WSP | Parsons Brinckerhoff
Progress Power Limited
Project No 70023845
August 2016
BUILDING OR
STRUCTURE
SUMMARY OF WHAT IS
CURRENTLY
CONSENTED
CHANGE
Maximum height: 3 metres
(metres above 48.5 AOD)
Maximum length: 50
metres
Maximum width: 46 metres
(metres above 48.5 AOD)
Maximum length: 50
metres
Maximum width: 36 metres
Gas treatment compound:
Maximum height: 5 metres
(metres above 48.5 AOD)
Maximum length: 29
metres
Maximum width: 16 metres
External Fin fan cooler
Built in coolers to the GTG For a single GTG only:
“Ancillary equipment" to
specifically include
reference to external fin fan
cooler containing the
following measurements:
Maximum height: 6 metres
(metres above 48.5 AOD)
Maximum length: 13
metres
Maximum width: 10 metres
4
SCREENING
4.1
METHODOLOGY
4.1.1
All topics assessed in relation to the application for the Development Consent Order
were considered in terms of the proposed non-material changes (Chapter 3).  The
following steps were undertaken:
à All topics and potential impacts assessed in the ES submitted in support of the
application for the Development Consent Order were screened against the
parameters of the proposed changes referred to in Chapter 3 above. This
included consideration of the environmental effects of the proposed changes to
the project and where these effects could result in a different significance of effect
to that identified in the original ES.
12
Progress Power (Gas Fired Power Station) Order 2015
WSP | Parsons Brinckerhoff
Progress Power Limited
Project No 70023845
August 2016
à Where there was a clear case that the significance of the effect would be
unchanged or reduced, these topics were ‘pre-screened’ out of further
assessment.  The outcome of the pre-screening exercise is presented in Table
4.1 of this Chapter 4.  In the case of landscape and visual impact, the pre-
screening exercise was informed by photomontages and an account is provided
in Chapter 5, which concluded that the five GTG scenario remained the realistic
worst case and therefore the assessment in the original ES remains valid.
à Where further analysis was required to determine whether the significance of the
effect would be unchanged or reduced, updated assessments have been
provided in Chapter 5 and Chapter 6 of this Report.
à A search of the National Infrastructure Planning register of applications and a
search of Mid Suffolk District Council and Suffolk County Council’s planning
applications register has been undertaken.  No new applications have been
registered for Nationally Significant Infrastructure Projects or major planning
applications that would be required to be considered in the assessment of
cumulative effects.  There are no changes to the baseline information for all
topics which require an update to the cumulative assessment.
4.1.2
The majority of the proposed changes referred to in Chapter 3 relate only to the
single GTG scenario:
à Changes in dimensions for the single GTG;
à Width of flue stack;
à Increase in number of Black Start Diesel Generators from one to three;
à A stand alone Fin Fan Cooler.
4.1.3
These proposed changes in the single GTG scenario have been screened and the
updated assessments undertaken in the context of whether the effects of the single
GTG scenario would be different to those identified in the realistic worst case
scenario identified in the ES for all environmental topics, being the five GTG
scenario.
4.1.4
The following proposed changes referred to in Chapter 3 relate to all GTG scenarios:
à Dimensions of Black Start Diesel Generator; and
à Creating two compounds out of the single compound for the Natural Gas
Receiving Station and Gas Treatment Compound
4.1.5
These proposed changes have been considered in the context of the five GTG
scenario and whether or not they would create different environmental effects to
those identified in the ES.
13
Progress Power (Gas Fired Power Station) Order 2015
WSP | Parsons Brinckerhoff
Progress Power Limited
Project No 70023845
August 2016
4.2
SCREENING
IDENTIFICATION OF CHANGES AND EFFECTS RELEVANT TO ASSESSMENT
4.2.1
Table 4.1 sets out the results of screening assessment in respect of the proposed
changes:
 14
Progress Power (Gas Fired Power Station) Order 2015
WSP | Parsons Brinckerhoff
Progress Power Limited
Project No 70023845
August 2016
Table 4-1 Impact Assessment Screening
EIA TOPIC
CHANGE IN RELEVANT PROJECT
PARAMETERS
KEY CHANGE IN
EFFECTS
CHANGE IN
IMPACT
SIGNIFICANCE
UPDATED
ASSESSMENT
Air Quality
Single GTG scenario:
1.  Increase in dimensions of GTG;
2. Increase in width of part of flue stack;
3. Increase in number of Black Start Diesel
Generators;
4. Stand alone fin fan cooler
All GTG scenarios:
N/A
Not relevant:
1. Change in width of Black Start Diesel
Generators has no effect on level of emissions;
2. Creation of two compounds for Natural Gas
Receiving Station and Gas Treatment
Compound has no effect on emissions.
Potential
Assessment has
concluded no
adverse impact on
significance (see
Section 6)
Y
Noise and
Vibration
Single GTG scenario:
1.  Increase in dimensions of GTG;
2. Increase in width of part of flue stack;
3. Increase in number of Black Start Diesel
Generators;
4. Stand alone fin fan cooler
All GTG scenarios:
N/A
No change in level
of noise and
vibration
(Requirement 17
of the
Development
Consent Order
limits operational
noise and this
remains
unchanged)
None
N
   15
Progress Power (Gas Fired Power Station) Order 2015
WSP | Parsons Brinckerhoff
Progress Power Limited
Project No 70023845
August 2016
EIA TOPIC
CHANGE IN RELEVANT PROJECT
PARAMETERS
KEY CHANGE IN
EFFECTS
CHANGE IN
IMPACT
SIGNIFICANCE
UPDATED
ASSESSMENT
Not relevant:
1. Change in width of Black Start Diesel
Generators has no effect on noise levels;
2. Creation of two compounds for Natural Gas
Receiving Station and Gas Treatment
Compound has no effect on noise levels.
Ecology and
Nature
Conservation
Single GTG scenario:
1.  Increase in dimensions of GTG;
2. Increase in width of part of flue stack;
3. Increase in number of Black Start Diesel
Generators;
4. Stand alone fin fan cooler
All GTG scenarios:
N/A
Not relevant:
1. Change in width of Black Start Diesel
Generators does not affect air quality;
2. Creation of two compounds for Natural Gas
Receiving Station and Gas Treatment
Compound does not affect air quality
Potential effects
related to air
quality but
assessment
confirmed no
significant change
(see Chapter 6)
None
N
Water Quality
and Resources
None of the proposed changes are relevant as
they do not have any direct or indirect effects on
water quality or resources.
No change in
effects as water
resources not
affected
None
N
   16
Progress Power (Gas Fired Power Station) Order 2015
WSP | Parsons Brinckerhoff
Progress Power Limited
Project No 70023845
August 2016
EIA TOPIC
CHANGE IN RELEVANT PROJECT
PARAMETERS
KEY CHANGE IN
EFFECTS
CHANGE IN
IMPACT
SIGNIFICANCE
UPDATED
ASSESSMENT
Geology,
Ground
Conditions and
Agriculture
Single GTG scenario:
N/A
All GTG scenarios:
1. Creation of two compounds for Natural Gas
Receiving Station and Gas Treatment
Compound
Not relevant:
1. Increase in width of part of flue stack ;
2.  Increase in dimensions of GTG;
3. Increase in number of Black Start Diesel
Generators;
4. Stand alone fin fan cooler ;
 5. Change in width of Black Start Diesel
Generators.
In respect of 1 to 5 above, whilst their respective
dimensions increase, the built footprint reduces
overall due to the smaller footprint of the Natural
Gas Receiving Station and the Gas Treatment
Compound.
Reduction in
building footprint,
therefore impacts
are reduced
None
N
Landscape and
Visual
Assessment
Single GTG scenario:
1.  Increase in dimensions of GTG;
2. Increase in width of part of flue stack;
3. Increase in number of Black Start Diesel
Generators;
Potential
Screening
assessment has
concluded none
(see Chapter 5)
Y
   17
Progress Power (Gas Fired Power Station) Order 2015
WSP | Parsons Brinckerhoff
Progress Power Limited
Project No 70023845
August 2016
EIA TOPIC
CHANGE IN RELEVANT PROJECT
PARAMETERS
KEY CHANGE IN
EFFECTS
CHANGE IN
IMPACT
SIGNIFICANCE
UPDATED
ASSESSMENT
4. Stand alone fin fan cooler
All GTG scenarios:
1. Creation of two compounds for Natural Gas
Receiving Station and Gas Treatment
Compound
2. Change in length of Black Start Diesel
Generators
Traffic,
Transport and
Access
None of the proposed changes are relevant as
they will not result in any changes to traffic
movements.
No change
None
N
Cultural
Heritage and
Archaeology
Single GTG scenario:
1.  Increase in dimensions of GTG;
2. Increase in width of part of flue stack;
3. Increase in number of Black Start Diesel
Generators;
4. Stand alone fin fan cooler
All GTG scenarios:
1. Creation of two compounds for Natural Gas
Receiving Station and Gas Treatment
Compound
Not relevant:
1. Change in length of Black Start Diesel
Generators will not affect any heritage assets.
No change in
effects on heritage
assets
None
N
Socio-
Economics
None of the proposed changes are relevant as 
No change
None
N
   18
Progress Power (Gas Fired Power Station) Order 2015
WSP | Parsons Brinckerhoff
Progress Power Limited
Project No 70023845
August 2016
EIA TOPIC
CHANGE IN RELEVANT PROJECT
PARAMETERS
KEY CHANGE IN
EFFECTS
CHANGE IN
IMPACT
SIGNIFICANCE
UPDATED
ASSESSMENT
they will not result in any changes in
employment or effects on local receptors.
Health and
Waste
None of the proposed changes are relevant as
they will not result in any changes to impacts on
human health or any increase in the production
of waste.
No change
None
N
 19
Progress Power (Gas Fired Power Station) Order 2015
WSP | Parsons Brinckerhoff
Progress Power Limited
Project No 70023845
August 2016
4.2.2
The follow sections provide further commentary on the topics in Table 4.1.
NOISE
4.2.3
As part of the original EIA, the Power Generation Plant was modelled based on a
site layout utilising five air cooled, 59MW single cycle gas turbines and associated
plant. Each turbine was modelled with a 30m high exhaust stack with a sound power
level of 110 dB (Lw A) at the stack termination when running at base load. The
predicted noise levels based on this configuration formed the noise limits for the
Power Generation Plant as set out in the Requirements contained in the
Development Consent Order.
4.2.4
An alternative site layout and configuration is being considered, using a single, but
higher power rated turbine, which would be enclosed within a single engine house
with a single exhaust stack.  A manufacturer of this type of unit has confirmed that
the alternative configuration will be able to meet the noise limits contained in the
Development Consent Order, as noise from the GTG units is attenuated by the
turbine casing, and so varies little with higher power output turbines. The main
variable noise producing element is likely to be exhaust noise through the top of the
stack. If a single exhaust stack is used, then the sound power level at the stack
termination should not exceed 113 dB (Lw A) when running at base load.
4.2.5
Regardless of the plant configuration, the following embedded mitigation will be
applied to minimise noise:
à The GTG and compressor are to be housed in an individual acoustic enclosure
specified at 85 dB(A) Sound Pressure Level at 1 m.
à Turbine filter and ventilation apertures are to be fitted with high performance
silencers, and designed such that all sensitive receptors benefit from screening
and/or directivity corrections.
à High performance silencers will be installed in the outlet duct(s) between the
GTGs. Due to the impracticality of screening stack noise, discharge noise will be
controlled using silencers tuned to attenuate low frequencies from the GTG
exhausts.
à Unit transformers and generator transformers to be housed in an appropriate
enclosure or three sided pen, to provide full screening to noise sensitive
receptors.
à All plant items will be controlled to minimise noise of an impulsive or tonal nature,
such that the rating level as defined in BS 4142:2014 is equal to the specific
noise level.
4.2.6
It is confirmed that in the proposed changes in the single GTG scenario and the
proposed changes in all GTG scenarios (as outlined in paragraphs 4.1.2 and 4.1.4
above) are not likely to result in any changes to the predicted noise effects as
assessed in the ES.  In any event, the proposed changes can all be accommodated
within the noise restrictions set out in Requirement 17 of the Development Consent
   20
Progress Power (Gas Fired Power Station) Order 2015
WSP | Parsons Brinckerhoff
Progress Power Limited
Project No 70023845
August 2016
Order.
4.2.7
Therefore, there are no new or different adverse noise effects from those set out in
the ES.
CULTURAL HERITAGE
4.2.8
There are no designated assets directly affected by the proposed changes to the
Power Generation Plant site.
4.2.9
In terms of indirect impacts on the setting of designated assets, the proposed
changes have been considered against each of the reported impacts and it is
concluded that, given the scale and nature of the changes, that there is no change to
the predicted impacts on the setting of designated or non-designated heritage assets
reported in the ES.
4.2.10
Following concerns raised during the Examination of the Development Consent
Order by the local planning authority and English Heritage (now Historic England),
particular consideration has been given to the proposed changes to the Power
Generation Plant and the likely effect on the setting of Eye Castle (the remains of the
motte and bailey castle, a Scheduled Ancient Monument and Grade I listed building)
and Eye Conservation Area.
4.2.11
The ES reported a slight adverse impact on the significance of Eye Castle resulting
from the impact on views from the Castle towards the Power Generation Plant and a
slight adverse impact on the significance of Eye Conservation Area. The Examining
Authority agreed with this assessment, concluding at paragraph 4.174(a) of the
Examining Authority’s Report, that within the town of Eye the Power Generation
Plant would only be visible from Eye Castle, and that as views towards Eye from the
higher ground to the south would be affected with the development visible as an
addition to the existing industrialised background, the Power Generation Plant would
have a relatively small impact on the wider setting of Eye Conservation Area and
therefore on significance. In relation to the setting of Eye Castle itself, the Examining
Authority also concurred with the findings of the ES, concluding that, whilst the
stacks would be a prominent feature, the Castle takes its significance as much from
its position in the town as from its view into the surrounding area, and that the Power
Generation Plant would have a relatively small impact on the wider setting of the Eye
Castle and therefore on significance. The Secretary of State agreed with the
Examining Authority’s conclusions.
4.2.12
The effects of the proposed changes on the impact on the setting of Eye Castle and
Eye Conservation Area have been reviewed.  It is concluded that there would be no
different likely significant environmental effects to those previously reported.
4.2.13
The ES reported that construction of the Power Generation Plant has the potential to
impact on buried archaeology and would impact directly on the non-designated
assets HA31 and HA32, the medieval field boundaries on the Airfield and the Airfield
itself. There would be a substantial and permanent adverse effect on these assets
   21
Progress Power (Gas Fired Power Station) Order 2015
WSP | Parsons Brinckerhoff
Progress Power Limited
Project No 70023845
August 2016
but they were considered to be of low local significance. Overall the ES concluded
that there would be a moderate or slight adverse effect from construction of the plant
which was not considered significant, and that there would be no further impact on
these assets during operation or decommissioning. The proposed changes do not
alter this conclusion.
ECOLOGY
4.2.14
The proposed changes are to the layout of the Power Generation Plant Site (plant
buildings/ancillary structures), rather than the Order Limits. Of relevance to this
assessment is the widening of the stack in the single GTG scenario, the addition of
the stand alone fin fan cooler in the single GTG scenario and the increase in number
of black start generators in the single GTG scenario.
4.2.15
The splitting of the natural gas receiving station and gas treatment compound will not
result in any changes to the predicted effects on ecological receptors as it will not
affect emissions and is therefore not relevant to the assessment.
4.2.16
As part of the original assessment for ecology, predicted impacts and effects (without
mitigation) of project activities to ecological receptors included within the Order
Limits:
à Permanent and temporary habitat loss;
à Habitat fragmentation;
à Habitat degradation;
à Direct mortality during site clearance and construction;
à Direct and indirect disturbance from construction activities including visual, noise,
vibration and lighting;
à Pollution caused by increased levels of dust, use of hazardous materials and
incidental release of chemicals, fuels or waste materials.
à Direct mortality during operational use;
à Direct disturbance from operational use visual, noise and lighting;
à Pollution of water body caused by run off; and
à Pollution caused by air deposition.
4.2.17
The four European statutory designated sites identified in the original ES (Redgrave
and Lopham Fens Ramsar, Site of Special Scientific Interest (SSSI), National Nature
Reserve (NNR) and Waveney & Littlehouse Valley Fens Special Area of
Conservation (SAC)) occupy the same area of fen habitat over 7 km from the Project
Site.  It is considered that these are located at a sufficient distance from the Project
Site such that indirect construction impacts such as dust, noise, vibration and
temporary lighting will dissipate a short distance from the Project Site and that the
impact on these statutorily designated sites will remain negligible and not significant.
   22
Progress Power (Gas Fired Power Station) Order 2015
WSP | Parsons Brinckerhoff
Progress Power Limited
Project No 70023845
August 2016
4.2.18
The remaining three statutory designated sites identified in the original ES (Major
Farm, Braiseworth SSSI; Gypsy Camp Meadows, Thrandeston SSSI; and The
Pennings, Eye Local Nature Reserve (LNR)) are designated for wet and dry meadow
habitat. These habitats are not sensitive to indirect effects such as noise, vibration
and lighting. The closest of these sites is located 1.7 km from the Project Site.
Construction dust will dissipate a short distance from the Project Site, and the impact
on these sites will remain negligible and not significant.
4.2.19
The three non-statutory designated sites identified in the original ES (Braiseworth
Wood / Stegall’s Wood County Wildlife Site (CWS), Mellis Common CWS and
Thrandeston Marsh CWS) are designated for woodland, common land and marsh
habitats respectively. These habitats are not sensitive to indirect effects such as
noise, vibration and lighting and no impacts
4.2.20
No changes to areas of permanent and/or temporary habitat loss will occur as a
result of proposed changes outlined in paragraphs 4.1.2 and 4.1.4 above.  The
original assessment assumed temporary land-take of all areas within the Order
Limits.  As the Order Limits remains the same, no change to habitat fragmentation or
incidental mortality of species is likely to occur.  The proposed changes will not result
in an increase in dust, noise, vibration or lighting adverse effects.  Therefore there
would be no change to the environmental effects and impacts reported in the ES and
the conclusions remain the same.
OTHER TOPICS
4.2.21
As set out in Table 4.1, none of the proposed changes are relevant the conclusions
of the original EIA topics relating to traffic and transport, water quality, socio-
economics, and health and waste.
4.2.22
Potential effects on geology, ground conditions and agriculture were considered in
relation to the splitting of the natural gas receiving station and gas treatment
compound. However, the effects would be unchanged as the Order Limits would not
change and therefore it was concluded that an updated assessment would not be
required.
5
LANDSCAPE ASSESSMENT
5.1
INTRODUCTION
5.1.1
This Chapter considers whether potential landscape and visual impacts arising from
the proposed changes to the Power Generation Plant site would give rise to new or
different environmental effects than those assessed in the ES.
5.1.2
The proposed changes to the Power Generation Plant site have been considered in
relation to the landscape and visual assessment chapter of the ES submitted to
support the application for the Development Consent Order. In terms of visibility, the
   23
Progress Power (Gas Fired Power Station) Order 2015
WSP | Parsons Brinckerhoff
Progress Power Limited
Project No 70023845
August 2016
most noticeable of the proposed changes compared to the parameters set out in the
Development Consent Order would be changes to the dimensions of both the GTG
and the flue stack (in the single GTG Scenario only). These are the tallest structures
and it is important to note that there would be no change to their overall height.
5.1.3
Changes are proposed to other structures including:
à in the single GTG scenario - increase in number of black start diesel generators
from one to three; and a stand-alone fin fan cooler (new structure); and
à in all GTG scenarios - increase in dimensions of the black start diesel generator;
the creation of two (out of the current single) natural gas receiving station and
gas treatment compound.
5.1.4
All of the changes referred to in 5.1.3 would affect structures that are of a lower
height than the GTG and flue stack and, in terms of visibility, would be less
noticeable. In the single GTG scenario the tallest of these structures would be the
proposed fin fan cooler, which would be a new stand-alone structure and would be
located adjacent to the gas turbine building. In the five GTG scenario ancillary
cooling systems would be built in and not visible. No changes are proposed to the
landscape mitigation for the Power Generation Plant or for the design and mitigation
of the Gas Connection and Above Ground Installation site which will be located near
the Power Generation Plant.
5.1.5
This updated assessment has focussed on potential changes to views and visual
amenity. Potential landscape effects have not been considered further for the
following reasons:
à There would be no change to the location or extent of the Power Generation
Plant. It would be built on land designated for industrial development within Eye
Airfield which could accommodate the proposed development. Potential impacts
on landscape character and landscape elements (trees, woodland/plantations
etc.) would be minor, the same as assessed in the ES;
à The proposed development would be in keeping with the character and scale of
surrounding industrial and commercial development within Eye Airfield; and
à No significant adverse effects were reported on key landscape character
receptors within the locality.
5.1.6
Potential effects would arise in relation to views and visual amenity at a limited
number of locations. This assessment has used selected viewpoints from the ES that
are representative of people living near the Power Generation Plant site who are
highly sensitive to change and have prolonged opportunities to view the landscape
from their dwellings.
5.1.7
The ES identified potential effects on visual amenity would arise primarily in relation
to the five 30m high flue stacks and 19m high GTGs.  Other lower structures within
the Power Generation Plant would be substantially screened by the surrounding
industrial buildings within Eye Airfield and adjacent woodland within the National Grid
   24
Progress Power (Gas Fired Power Station) Order 2015
WSP | Parsons Brinckerhoff
Progress Power Limited
Project No 70023845
August 2016
Gas Compressor Station.
5.1.8
Assuming the proposed changes to the lower structures would be screened by these
elements, the updated assessment has focussed on potential changes to views in
relation to the tallest structures, the single flue stack and the GTG, as well as the fin
fan cooler, which would be a new structure. The proposed changes that relate to all
GTG scenarios are not considered to affect landscape and visual effects given they
are low level structures (5 metres).  This assessment, therefore, focused on the
proposed changes relevant to the single GTG scenario, focussing on the flue stack,
GTG and fin fan cooler for the reasons expressed above.  The revised assessment
does not affect the conclusions reported in the ES; no new significant visual effects
are predicted to arise from the proposed changes.
5.2
METHODOLOGY
5.2.1
The methodology for the assessment of potential visual effects from the proposed
changes has followed the same process and applied the same criteria as the ES.
Similarly, for the purpose of this assessment, impacts that are assessed as being
either moderately adverse or above are considered significant.
5.2.2
All viewpoints described in ES Chapter 11 that relate specifically to the Power
Generation Plant have been reviewed and it has been concluded that there are no
new, or materially different, likely significant effects in respect of any of these
viewpoints.
5.2.3
The updated assessment has focussed on locations where the proposed changes
would be most visible to highly sensitive receptors. The following three viewpoint
locations were identified because they are representative of people who live near the
Power Generation Plant site, who are highly sensitive to change and have prolonged
opportunities to view the landscape from their dwellings:
à Viewpoint VP2: Victoria Hill, Eye;
à Viewpoint VP3: PRoW off Gaye Crescent, Eye; and
à Viewpoint VP11: Hall Farm, Yaxley.
5.2.4
The new photomontages for these viewpoints (see Appendix A) include the same
photographs of existing views that were included in the ES which were taken
between June 2013 and January 2014, a photomontage of the approved project at
year one when landscape mitigation planting would have little visual impact (a single
GTG scenario and the five GTG scenario are shown), and a photomontage showing
the proposed changes in respect of the single GTG scenario, also at year one.
Please refer to ES Figure 11.5, Viewpoint Locations (Document reference 6.3.0,
Volume C), and Photographs and Photomontages (Document reference 7.1) Figure
Nos. 11.9, 11.10 and 11.18 for the original photomontages for Viewpoints VP2, VP3
and VP11 respectively. The proposed changes are only shown in respect of the
single GTG scenario as it is only in that scenario that the changes referred to in
paragraphs 4.1.2 and 4.1.4 have the potential for any new or different environmental
   25
Progress Power (Gas Fired Power Station) Order 2015
WSP | Parsons Brinckerhoff
Progress Power Limited
Project No 70023845
August 2016
effects.
5.2.5
The same methodology has been used for the production of the original and new
photomontages.
5.3
SUMMARY OF ORIGINAL ASSESSMENT
5.3.1
The ES concluded the Power Generation Plant would be sited within the former Eye
Airfield where it would be visible in the context of similar industrial buildings, tall wind
turbines (135m high) and mature woodland belts/hedgerows. The maximum height
of the Power Generation Plant flue stacks would be 30m, appreciably lower than the
adjacent 40m high stack within the existing Eye Power Station and ~50m high mast
at the National Grid Gas Compressor Station. Views of Eye Airfield from all
directions are influenced to a varying extent by four existing 135m high wind
turbines. Although the upper part of the stacks would be visible on the skyline above
the mature mitigation planting and adjacent woodland, the residual visual impact
would be not significant for nearby receptors with high sensitivity to change.
5.3.2
The ES noted views of the Power Generation Plant stacks would be available from
distances greater than 1km except for close views from public rights of way (PRoW)
at Eye Airfield. The lower structures would be substantially screened by mature
woodland adjacent to the eastern boundary of the site and extensive areas of
woodland/hedgerow mitigation planting on the southern and western boundaries.
CONSTRUCTION
5.3.3
The ES assessment concluded significant short term adverse visual effects on
sensitive receptors would arise during construction and commissioning of the Power
Generation Plant. Construction activities would last for approximately 21 months and
would have a direct effect on all areas required for the permanent works, as well as a
temporary construction area adjoining the southern boundary of the Power
Generation Plant.
OPERATION
5.3.4
ES Chapter 4 describes why a power generation plant comprising five GTGs each
with a 30m high flue stack compared to one or two GTGs would be the realistic worst
case scenario in terms of its visibility in the wider landscape. Although there are
several tall stacks at Eye Airfield they are generally single stacks associated with
different developments throughout the industrial estate.  In comparison the linear
arrangement of five closely spaced stacks would be an unusual feature that would
draw the eye. The flue stacks would be the most prominent elements within the
Power Generation Plant site and would be visible on the skyline over a wide area.
5.3.5
They would cause a change to the skyline and the top of the stacks would always be
visible above nearby mature woodland. Although they would be seen in the context
of the taller structures described above, they would be set against a backdrop of
mature woodland and, with time, most of the Power Generation Plant structures
would be substantially screened by the mitigation woodland and hedgerow planting.
   26
Progress Power (Gas Fired Power Station) Order 2015
WSP | Parsons Brinckerhoff
Progress Power Limited
Project No 70023845
August 2016
5.3.6
Table 5.1 summarises the significance of visual effects in relation to viewpoints VP2,
VP3 and VP11 during construction and at operation when the landscape mitigation
had achieved its design objectives.
TABLE 5.1 SIGNIFICANCE OF VISUAL EFFECTS
VIEWPOINT /
ES FIG. NO.
LOCATION /
DISTANCE
RECEPTOR /
SENSITIVITY
MAGNITUDE
OF CHANGE
SIGNIFICANCE
OF EFFECT
VP2
Figure 11.9
B1077,
Victoria Hill,
Eye
1.3km, east of
site
Residential
and
Recreational /
High
Construction:
Minor
Moderate
Adverse
Significant
(temporary)
Operation:
Negligible
Slight Adverse
Not Significant
VP3
Figure 11.10
Allotments and
PRoW, Gaye
Crescent, Eye
1.1km, south
east of site
Residential
and
Recreational /
High
Construction:
Minor
Moderate
Adverse
Significant
(temporary)
Operation:
Negligible
Slight Adverse
Not Significant
VP11
Figure 11.18
Hall Farm,
PRoW, Yaxley
1.6km, south of
site
Residential  /
High
Construction:
Moderate
Moderate
Adverse
Significant
(temporary)
Operation:
Negligible
Slight Adverse
Not Significant
DECOMMISSIONING
5.3.7
The Power Generation Plant will be designed for an operating life of 25 years from
commencement of operation. During decommissioning, temporary activities and
potential visual impacts would be similar to those during construction. Landscape
mitigation screen planting and hedgerow planting would be retained and would
screen some views of the decommissioning activities.
5.4
UPDATED ASSESSMENT
5.4.1
The proposed changes to the approved layout of the Power Generation Plant site
and approved parameters set out in the Development Consent Order are described
in detail in Chapter 3 above and are shown in Figures 1, 2, 4, 5 and 6 accompanying
this report. In terms of visibility, the most noticeable differences are:
à The alternative layout of the Power Generation Plant would be based around one
GTG and one flue stack instead of up to five GTGs and flue stacks.
Consequently, the footprint of the Power Generation Plant would be smaller.
Although the structures would not extend as far south in the site as originally
proposed, the perimeter fence and mitigation planting would be in the same
position as the approved project;
   27
Progress Power (Gas Fired Power Station) Order 2015
WSP | Parsons Brinckerhoff
Progress Power Limited
Project No 70023845
August 2016
à The single GTG would be increased in length to 50 metres (previously 30 metres)
and width to 40 metres (previously 30 metres); and
à The maximum width of the stack would be increased from 8.4 metres to 11
metres at up to a height of 16.5 metres and from 8.4 metres to 10 metres from
16.5 metres up to a maximum height of 30 metres.
5.4.2
Proposed changes to other lower structures within the Power Generation Plant site
would be less noticeable and would include:
à In the single GTG scenario, three black start diesel generators would be required
to start up the single GTG.  Whilst this is an increase from one, this change is
only where there is a single GTG.  Accordingly, there would still be considerably
less infrastructure in the single GTG scenario than the five GTG scenario (the
range of one to five GTGs being already consented in the Development Consent
Order).
à In the single GTG scenario, the fin fan cooler would not specifically form part of
the single GTG and would be replaced by appropriate external ancillary
equipment. The dimensions would be 6 metres high, 13 metres long and 10
metres wide.  Whilst in the single GTG scenario this cooling equipment is
separate from the GTG (unlike in the three to five GTG scenarios where the
cooling equipment is integrated into the GTGs), there would still be considerably
less infrastructure in the single GTG scenario than the five GTG scenario (the
range of one to five GTGs being already consented in the Development Consent
Order).
à For all GTG scenarios, the length of the black start diesel generator would be
increased to 17 metres (previously 13 metres), the maximum height (5 metres)
and width (5 metres) remain the same. This change of 4 metres is deminimus
and would not be noticeable in the context of the built infrastructure.
à For all GTG scenarios, the single compound consented in the Development
Consent Order for the natural gas receiving station and gas treatment compound
(3 metres high x 50 metres long x 46 metres wide) would be replaced by two
smaller compounds of the following dimensions which would be an overall
reduction in the total built footprint.
§
Compound 1 – Natural Gas Receiving Station: 5  metres high x 36 metres
wide and 50 metres long;
§
Compound 2 – Gas Treatment Compound: 5 metres high x 16 metres wide
and 29 metres long. The approach to landscaping, design and lighting for
the Power Generation Plant would be the same as the approved project.
5.4.3
The approach to landscaping, design and lighting for the Power Generation Plant
would be the same as the approved project.
CONSTRUCTION
5.4.4
Construction and commissioning of the proposed Power Generation Plant would
   28
Progress Power (Gas Fired Power Station) Order 2015
WSP | Parsons Brinckerhoff
Progress Power Limited
Project No 70023845
August 2016
remain the same between the project as currently consented and with the proposed
changes.  The same significant short term slight adverse visual effects on highly
sensitive receptors would arise during this stage. Construction activities would have
a direct effect on all areas required for the permanent works, as well as the
construction area, and they would be temporary.
OPERATION
5.4.5
The new photomontages (refer to Appendix 5) illustrate the proposed Power
Generation Plant in the single GTG scenario, which can be compared with the
photomontage for the single consented unit. The proposed changes would have a
minor visual impact at year one when landscape mitigation planting was least
effective and would reduce over time as the planting developed and achieved its full
effect by year fifteen.
5.4.6
The proposed change to the layout of the Power Generation Plant in the single GTG
scenario repositions the tallest elements, the GTG and flue stack, further north (but
all within the Order Limits and within the numbered work areas shown on the Works
Plans which are secured via Requirement 3 of Schedule 2 to the Development
Consent Order) and closer to similar taller industrial buildings at Eye Power Station
and the National Grid Gas Compressor Station. The proposed arrangement is
compact and visually cohesive.
5.4.7
The single wider stack (30m high) would be less noticeable in views from the
surrounding landscape and less prominent on the skyline than the approved
arrangement of up to five stacks (30m high). Although there are several tall flue
stacks at Eye Airfield they are generally single stacks; the linear arrangement of five
closely spaced stacks would be an unusual feature that would draw the eye.
5.4.8
The proposed changes to the dimensions and locations of other smaller structures
within the Power Generation Plan would not be discernible in views from any of the
viewpoint locations considered in the ES due to distance (>1km) except for one
viewpoint on a PRoW near the entrance to Eye Airfield from Castleton Way.  The
difference between the proposed changes compared to the approved project would
be minor when viewed from this location and other PRoWs at Eye Airfield when
landscape mitigation planting had achieved its design objectives.
5.4.9
Table 5.2 sets out a comparison between the approved project and the proposed
changes at operation in relation to each of the three viewpoint locations, which are
illustrated in the new photomontages (see Appendix A).
5.4.10
This assessment has assumed the same growth rates for the landscape mitigation
planting as the original ES whereby native species woodland planting will attain a
height of approximately 2.5m five years after planting, 6m high after ten years, and 8
to 10m after fifteen years.
29
The Progress Power (Gas Fired Power Station) Order 2015
WSP | Parsons Brinckerhoff
Progress Power Limited
Project No 70023845
August 2016
TABLE 5.2  COMPARISON OF THE VISUAL IMPACT OF THE APPROVED  POWER GENERATION PLANT AND
PROPOSED CHANGES AT OPERATION
VIEWPOINT
/ NEW FIG.
NO.
LOCATION / DISTANCE/
RECEPTOR/SENSITIVITY
APPROVED PROJECT
(5 No. GTG s and flue
stacks)
PROPOSED CHANGES
(Single GTG and flue stack)
VP2
Figure No.
5.1
B1077, Victoria Hill, Eye;
1.3km east of the Power
Generation Plant site;
Residential  and
Recreational;
High
There would be a minor
change to the existing
view due to the increased
extent of industrial
structures at the new
Power Generation Plant
site.
The tops of the 5 stacks
would be seen as an
equally spaced row just
visible above the
intervening mature
woodland within the
National Grid
Gas Compressor Station.
They would be prominent
on the skyline and could
not be fully mitigated.
They would be similar to,
but lower than the
adjacent Eye Power
Station stack (40m high)
and National Grid mast
(~50m high).
All of the structures, except the perimeter security fence
would be located within the northern part of the Power
Generation Plant site (Figure 1). In this location they
would be screened by mature woodland next to the
eastern boundary of the site within the National Grid
Gas Compressor Station.
Views of the GTG (maximum height 19m) would be
screened by the mature woodland from year 1; it is
assumed this woodland is mature and would not
increase in height noticeably. The upper part of the Flue
Stack (30m high) would be visible above the woodland
and could not be fully mitigated. The Flue Stack would
be in approximately the same position as the stack on
the right hand side of the row of 5 and would be close to
the National Grid communications mast (~50m high).
Changes to the overall length and width of the building
would not be apparent.
The visible part of the stack would be 10 metres wide,
slightly wider than the consented stacks (8.4 metres
wide). The difference in width from the proposed change
would be barely discernible at this distance. It would be
the main new element that would be visible from this
location and would be less noticeable than the approved
   30
The Progress Power (Gas Fired Power Station) Order 2015
WSP | Parsons Brinckerhoff
Progress Power Limited
Project No 70023845
August 2016
TABLE 5.2  COMPARISON OF THE VISUAL IMPACT OF THE APPROVED  POWER GENERATION PLANT AND
PROPOSED CHANGES AT OPERATION
scheme comprising a row of up to five stacks of the
same height. It is considered that the visual impact of a
single, slightly wider stack would not be more adverse
than the impact arising from five stacks.
Therefore, the likely worst case of five stacks remains
the same with the proposed changes.  No change in the
ES assessment.
Magnitude of change:
Negligible
Significance of effect:
Slight Adverse, not
significant
In respect of the single GTG with the proposed
changes:
Magnitude of change: Negligible
Significance of effect:  Slight Adverse, not significant
VP3
Figure No.
5.2
Allotments and PRoW,
Gaye Crescent, Eye;
1.1km south east of the
Power Generation Plant
site;
Residential  and
Recreational;
High
Views of the taller
structures in the Power
Generation Plant from the
east would be partly
screened by mature
woodland within the
National Grid Gas
Compressor Station.
The tops of the 5 stacks
would be visible over the
intervening mature
woodland. Although they
would be a minor change
Potential visual impacts arising from the proposed
changes to the Power Generation Site would be broadly
similar to viewpoint VP2.
The site plan (Figure 1) indicates all of the structures,
except the perimeter security fence, would be located
within the northern part of the Power Generation Plant
site where they would be substantially screened by
mature woodland within the National Grid Gas
Compressor Station next to the eastern boundary of the
site.
Views of the GTG (maximum height 19m) would be
substantially screened by the mature woodland from
   31
The Progress Power (Gas Fired Power Station) Order 2015
WSP | Parsons Brinckerhoff
Progress Power Limited
Project No 70023845
August 2016
TABLE 5.2  COMPARISON OF THE VISUAL IMPACT OF THE APPROVED  POWER GENERATION PLANT AND
PROPOSED CHANGES AT OPERATION
to the existing view, they
would be prominent on
the skyline. The stacks
would be similar to, but
lower than the adjacent
Eye Power Station stack
(40m high) and National
Grid mast (~50m high).
year 1. The single flue stack (30m high) would be in
approximately the same position as the stack on the
right hand side of the row of 5 stacks in the approved
project. It would be located close to the National Grid
communications mast (~50m high) and the upper part of
the stack would be visible above the mature woodland.
The visible part of the stack would be 10 metres wide,
slightly wider than the consented stacks (8.4 metres
wide). The difference in width from the proposed change
would be barely discernible at this distance. It would be
the main new element that would be visible from this
location and would be less noticeable than the approved
scheme comprising a row of up to five stacks of the
same height. It is considered that the visual impact of a
single, slightly wider stack would not be more adverse
than the impact arising from five stacks.
Therefore, the likely worst case of five stacks remains
the same with the proposed changes.  No change in the
ES assessment.
Magnitude of change:
Negligible
Significance of effect:
Slight Adverse, not
significant
In respect of the single GTG with the proposed
changes:
Magnitude of change: Negligible
Significance of effect:  Slight Adverse, not significant
   32
The Progress Power (Gas Fired Power Station) Order 2015
WSP | Parsons Brinckerhoff
Progress Power Limited
Project No 70023845
August 2016
TABLE 5.2  COMPARISON OF THE VISUAL IMPACT OF THE APPROVED  POWER GENERATION PLANT AND
PROPOSED CHANGES AT OPERATION
VP11
Figure No.
5.3
Hall Farm, PRoW, Yaxley;
1.6km south of the Power
Generation Plant site;
Residential;
High
The Power Generation
Plant would represent an
incremental increase in
the extent of industrial
development visible on
the southern edge of the
Airfield.
The stacks would be
visible on the skyline
against woodland in the
National Grid Gas
Compressor Station.
Once established,
mitigation planting on the
western and southern
boundaries would
integrate with existing
woodland to form the
visual horizon in views
from further south. In the
longer term, the change
will be distinguishable but
not prominent in the
context of adjacent
industrial development at
Eye Airfield.
Figure 1 indicates all of the structures, except the
perimeter security fence would be located within the
northern part of the Power Generation Plant site up to
~40m further north than the approved project, which
would increase the distance from these residential
receptors to ~2km.  At this distance the smaller
buildings would be almost indistinguishable from
adjacent industrial buildings at Eye Airfield.
The increased size of the GTG (increase in length to
50m from 30m and width to 40 m from 30m) would be
distinguishable at this distance at year 1, becoming less
noticeable as the mitigation planting increased in height.
The single flue stack (30m high) would be in
approximately the same position as the northern stack
in the approved project. The visible part of the stack
would be 10 metres wide, slightly wider than the
consented stacks (8.4 metres wide). The difference in
width from the proposed change would be barely
discernible at this distance.
Although it would be noticeable on the skyline from this
location, it would be less prominent than a row of up to
five slightly narrower stacks of the same height. It would
be seen in the context of similar taller structures and
135m high wind turbines.
It is considered that the visual impact of a larger GTG
   33
The Progress Power (Gas Fired Power Station) Order 2015
WSP | Parsons Brinckerhoff
Progress Power Limited
Project No 70023845
August 2016
TABLE 5.2  COMPARISON OF THE VISUAL IMPACT OF THE APPROVED  POWER GENERATION PLANT AND
PROPOSED CHANGES AT OPERATION
and single, wider stack would not be more adverse than
the impact arising from five smaller GTGs and five
narrower stacks.
Magnitude of change:
Negligible
Significance of effect:
Slight Adverse, not
significant
In respect of the single GTG with the proposed
changes:
Magnitude of change: Negligible
Significance of effect:  Slight Adverse, not significant
34
The Progress Power (Gas Fired Power Station) Order 2015
WSP | Parsons Brinckerhoff
Progress Power Limited
Project No 70023845
August 2016
DECOMMISSIONING
5.4.12
The assessment of effects at decommissioning would be the same as those reported
in the ES. The Power Generation Plant would be designed for an operating life of 25
years. During decommissioning, site activities would be similar to those during
construction. Retention of the screen planting would substantially reduce visual
impacts at this stage compared to the construction stage.
CUMULATIVE EFFECTS
5.4.13
A search of the National Infrastructure Planning register of applications and a search
of Mid Suffolk District Council and Suffolk County Council’s planning applications
register has been undertaken.  No new applications have been registered for
Nationally Significant Infrastructure Projects or major planning applications that
would be required to be considered in the assessment of cumulative effects.
5.4.14
No potential cumulative landscape or visual effects were reported in the ES in
relation to the Power Generation Plant site and this conclusion remains the same.
MITIGATION AND RESIDUAL EFFECTS
5.4.15
The proposed changes to the Power Generation Plant would incorporate the same
embedded mitigation in the design of all its elements and the same secondary
mitigation as described in the original Landscape Mitigation Strategy (DCO
Document No. 10.6), all of which are secured in the Development Consent Order
through the Requirements.
5.4.16
In respect of landscape and visual effects, embedded mitigation would include:
à Utilising technology (SCGT) that will allow a significant reduction in stack height
compared to other technology types and there will be no visible plume
(parameters secured via Table 2 in Requirement 3 (as proposed to be amended
in this application));
à The architectural design, use of materials and colours of the buildings and
structures at Eye Airfield will be aesthetically pleasing and will assimilate the
Power Generation Plant into the surrounding landscape (Requirement 3 secures
detailed design and design principles);
à External lighting will be designed to reduce trespass and configured to avoid
glare and spillage (Requirement 18 secures the Lighting Strategy);
à Surface water attenuation ponds will be designed as visually attractive areas that
provide new ecological habitats (Requirement 10 secures the Ecological
Mitigation Plan); and
à The design of perimeter security fencing and its alignment behind the screen
woodland planting will provide a ‘soft’ outer edge to the Power Generation Plant
site. At maturity it would integrate with woodland planting already established on
adjacent sites at the National Grid Gas Compressor Station and Eye Power
   35
The Progress Power (Gas Fired Power Station) Order 2015
WSP | Parsons Brinckerhoff
Progress Power Limited
Project No 70023845
August 2016
Station (Requirements 7 and 10 secure Fencing and the Ecological Mitigation
Plan.
5.4.17
The same measures as those set out in the Landscape Mitigation Strategy
Proposals (Document Reference 10.6) (secured via Requirement 4 (Provision of
Landscaping)) in relation to the Power Generation Plant would be undertaken to
address specific residual adverse effects of the proposed changes that cannot be
designed out. They will include:
à 10 to 20m wide  belts of native species structure planting on the western and
southern boundaries would provide partial visual screening and break up the
large scale of the proposed Power Generation Plant to screen and break up the
scale and mass of the buildings;
à Diverse habitats for wildlife; and
à Amenity tree/shrub planting and grass areas.
5.4.18
Structure planting on the southern boundary of the Power Generation Plant site
would be subject to National Grid planting constraints in relation to gas pipelines.
5.4.19
Residual landscape impacts would be no worse than those originally reported. The
extent of agricultural land lost and the area of proposed new woodland and
hedgerow planting within the Power Generation Plant site would be the same.
Residual impacts on landscape character would not be significant. It would be sited
within an area largely dominated by similar industrial development.
5.4.20
Residual visual impacts arising from the proposed changes to the Power Generation
Plant on high sensitivity receptors would also be no worse than originally reported.
Visual effects would be localised due to the industrial character of the area adjoining
the Power Generation Plant site at Eye Airfield, landscape mitigation planting, and by
the surrounding offsite network of hedgerows and woodland.
5.5
CONCLUSIONS
5.5.1
It is concluded that the potential significance of landscape effects associated with the
proposed changes are no greater than those previously assessed for the approved
project. No significant landscape effects are predicted to arise at operation.
5.5.2
There would be no material change to the character of the view from the three
selected viewpoints, or any of the other ES viewpoint locations that relate specifically
to the Power Generation Plant. The assessed magnitude and significance of impact
would not change. No significant visual effects are predicted to arise at operation.
   36
The Progress Power (Gas Fired Power Station) Order 2015
WSP | Parsons Brinckerhoff
Progress Power Limited
Project No 70023845
August 2016
6
AIR QUALITY
6.1
INTRODUCTION
6.1.1
The air quality assessment for the original EIA considered the impacts of the Project
during construction, operation and decommissioning due to:
à Dust and particulate matter emissions generating during construction and
decommissioning activities; and
à Stack emissions (nitrogen oxides and carbon monoxide) from the operation of the
Power Generation Plant.
6.1.2
Impacts on human and ecological receptors as a result of direct exposure to
pollutants in ambient air and as a result of the deposition of pollutants to the surface
of the ground and vegetation were considered.
6.1.3
The assessment of impacts during construction and decommissioning was
undertaken using a qualitative risk based approach; operational impacts were
assessed quantitatively using detailed dispersion modelling.
6.2
SCREENING OF CONSTRUCTION/DECOMMISSIONING IMPACTS
6.2.1
The original assessment concluded that, with embedded mitigation measures
(including a dust management plan), any impacts during the construction (and
decommissioning) of the Project would be temporary and of negligible significance.
Given the low sensitivity to dust effects of the nearest receptors (light industrial areas
and agricultural land) no additional mitigation measures were considered necessary,
and any residual impacts were assessed to be of negligible significance.
6.2.2
The proposed changes to the dimensions of the various aspects of the Project will
have no material impact on the assessment of construction and decommissioning
impacts.
6.2.3
The original assessment was based on the approach set out in Institute of Air Quality
Management (IAQM) Guidance on the assessment of construction impacts (2011).
The assessment has four stages:
à Identification of receptors in distance bands from the works and their sensitivity to
air quality impacts;
à Assessment of particulate matter emissions potential;
à Assessment of the risk of impacts in the absence of mitigation; and
à Assessment of the significance of the effects following mitigation.
6.2.4
Decommissioning impacts were assumed in the original assessment to be equivalent
to the construction impacts.
   37
The Progress Power (Gas Fired Power Station) Order 2015
WSP | Parsons Brinckerhoff
Progress Power Limited
Project No 70023845
August 2016
6.2.5
The proposed dimension changes for the Project will not affect the potential
receptors since, to ensure a conservative (likely worst case) assessment, these were
assessed in relation to the Order Limits as a whole, rather than in relation to distinct
works areas.  Furthermore, the Project dimension changes will not affect the
assessment of the dust emissions potential of the works i.e. the emissions potential
from earthworks remains large (since the total site area was, and remains, greater
than the IAQM criteria of 10,000m2) and the emissions potential from construction
remains small (since the total volume remains less than the IAQM criteria of
25,000m3, the majority of which will be prefabricated).  In addition, the dimension
changes will not result in any increase in the maximum number of construction
vehicles accessing the site in any given day (linked to the assessed risk of track-out
of dust from the site on the wheels and undercarriage of vehicles).
6.2.6
With no change to receptors or emissions potential, the risks of dust impacts are
unchanged from the original assessment and, as such, there is no requirement for
additional mitigation.
6.2.7
To conclude, the Project, including revised dimensions, will have a negligible likely
impact on air quality during construction and decommissioning.
6.3
OPERATIONAL IMPACTS
6.3.1
The potential operational impacts of the Project relate to the impacts of exhaust
emissions from the GTG(s).
6.3.2
The ground level impact of an emission to air is determined by various factors
including atmospheric conditions and the effective height of the release. For all
meteorological conditions, the higher the effective release height, the lower the
ground level impacts.
6.3.3
The effective height of the release is, in turn, determined by the physical height of
the release (the stack height), the height of nearby buildings and the buoyancy of the
plume in providing initial plume rise before the exhaust gases become well mixed
with the surrounding air.
6.3.4
It is well established that the buoyancy of a plume increases with increasing
temperature of the exhaust gases and also with increasing volume flow. Therefore,
to ensure a conservative (likely worst case) assessment of impacts, the original air
quality assessment was based on a scenario employing five 59MW GTGs and it was
assumed that the plumes from these generators do not merge.  The revised Project
dimensions do not affect the scenario employing five generators, but potentially
affect the dispersion of pollutant from the single GTG scenario.
6.3.5
Whilst the single GTG scenario is, in general, expected to result in lower impacts
than the five GTG scenario, due to the greater plume buoyancy described above, the
increased dimensions of the single GTG may affect the downwash of pollutants in
the wake of the unit.  Increased downwash may increase ground level
concentrations of pollutants, although these effects would be limited to the
   38
The Progress Power (Gas Fired Power Station) Order 2015
WSP | Parsons Brinckerhoff
Progress Power Limited
Project No 70023845
August 2016
immediate vicinity of the GTG1.
6.3.6
Additional dispersion modelling has been undertaken to demonstrate that a single
GTG scenario will result in (within the revised Project dimensions set out in Table 3-
1) air quality impacts that are of equivalent significance to the five GTG scenario
considered within the original assessment.
6.3.7
It should be noted that the increase in the external width of the flue stack, from 8.4m
to 11m, applies to the lower section of the flue only and that the upper section of the
flue increases from 8.4m to 10m. The change in external dimensions results from
greater layers of casing and additional insulation. This has limited impact on the
dispersion of pollutants.  The dispersion of pollutants is affected by the internal size
of the flue at the point of exit to atmosphere (top of the flue).  Notwithstanding this,
the additional modelling has been based on the increased flue of diameter 10m.
This is considered a conservative assumption since it will minimise the assumed exit
velocity and initial plume rise, and hence maximise the proportion of the plume
subject to building downwash.
6.3.8
The basic methodology for the additional dispersion modelling follows that used for
the original assessment, with the generator emissions data updated to a single
generator option (Table 6-1).
Table 6-1 Emissions Parameters (per Generator) for the Project.
PARAMETER
ORIGINAL ASSESSMENT SINGLE GENERATOR
OPTION
Number
5
1
Discharge Location
In a row, oriented
approximately south-west
to north-east from (613272,
275047) to (613306,
275157)
613287, 275158
Discharge Height (m)
25
30
Flue Exit Diameter (mm)
4486
10000
Discharge Temperature
(ºC)
479
580
Flow Rate (m3/s)
395
1780
Exit Velocity (m/s)
25
22
1 The presence of buildings can affect plume rise and the initial dispersion of pollutants within the
atmosphere. Turbulent wake zones can be created around buildings that force pollutants to the
ground instead of allowing them to rise freely within the atmosphere. Building downwash occurs as
the wind flows over and around buildings and impacts the dispersion of pollution from nearby
stacks.
   39
The Progress Power (Gas Fired Power Station) Order 2015
WSP | Parsons Brinckerhoff
Progress Power Limited
Project No 70023845
August 2016
PARAMETER
ORIGINAL ASSESSMENT SINGLE GENERATOR
OPTION
NOX Concentration
(mg/Nm3)
50
50
NOX Emission Rate (g/s)
6.61
[33.1g/s for all generators]
32.0
CO Concentration
(mg/Nm3)
100
100
CO Emission Rate (g/s)
13.23
[66.15g/s for all generators]
64.0
6.3.9
Building downwash was taken into account in the original assessment with the
inclusion of five GTGs with a footprint 39m x 16m and height of 10m (above ground
level).  Each stack was located at the centre of a turbine unit and each turbine unit
was oriented approximately north-south.
6.3.10
The single GTG has a maximum height of 19m and a revised footprint of maximum
length 50m and width 40m.  It is a limitation of the ADMS dispersion model that all
buildings must be represented as cuboid in shape.  As such, the representation of
the generator in the dispersion model is, of necessity, a simplification of its actual
dimensions.
6.3.11
In specifying the building dimensions for the modelling, it is essential that the
simplified representation appropriately captures the likely generation of the turbulent
building wake.  As a result, for the Project, the GTG was represented as building of
dimension 19m (H) x 60m (L) x 30m (W), oriented approximately north-south with the
stack located on the northern end.  It is emphasised that these dimensions are to be
used for the assessment of dispersion of pollutants only and assume that the
lower section of the stack effectively acts as part of the building – given the size of
the stack footprint, this is appropriate.
6.3.12
Black start generators are scoped out of this assessment as they are only used very
rarely for short periods e.g. to start the generators when the National Gas
Transmission System fails.  Testing will also be limited.  The increase of one to three
black start generators will also result in no increased adverse effects.
6.3.13
The addition of a fin fan cooler, the splitting of the natural gas receiving station and
gas treatment compound, and change in location of the switchyard will not affect
emissions.
6.4
SUMMARY OF ORIGINAL ASSESSMENT
6.4.1
The original assessment concluded that there are no significant adverse residual
effects associated with the operation of the Project.
6.4.2
With the stack height set in the range 25m to 30m, and NOX emissions at the limit
   40
The Progress Power (Gas Fired Power Station) Order 2015
WSP | Parsons Brinckerhoff
Progress Power Limited
Project No 70023845
August 2016
set by the IED (50mg/Nm3), the predicted effects of the Project on ambient air
quality were negligible to slight adverse in significance.  In particular, for ambient
pollutant concentrations, total predicted environmental concentrations with the
operation of the plant were well within the air quality objectives set in UK regulations
for the protection of health and ecosystems.
6.4.3
For nitrogen and acid deposition, whilst existing levels were shown to exceed the
minimum of the critical load range for all habitats, the realistic worst case impacts of
the Project were imperceptible (<1% of the critical load) for all sites.
6.4.4
Predicted environmental concentrations of pollutants, considered for the Project in
combination with other relevant development proposals, were well within the air
quality objectives for the protection of human health. Cumulative impacts on
ecological sites were imperceptible.
6.4.5
Overall, therefore, the assessment concluded that the Project will not give rise to any
appreciable effects on sensitive habitats or human health during construction,
operation or decommissioning.
6.5
UPDATED ASSESSMENT
IMPACTS ON HUMAN RECEPTORS
6.5.1
Table 6.2 shows the impact of the Project on maximum ground level concentrations
of nitrogen dioxide with the original assessment (five unit) and revised (one unit)
generator specifications.  Nitrogen dioxide is the key pollutant for human health.
6.5.2
The revision to the specifications has no effect on the conclusions of the
assessment.  Maximum impacts increase with the one unit option in comparison to
the five unit option presented in the original assessment.  However, there is a
negligible risk of exceedance of the objectives/EU limit values and, as such, no
significant health effects are anticipated with the operation of the Project.
6.5.3
With the single GTG specification, the total predicted environmental concentration for
annual mean nitrogen dioxide (taking into account likely operating hours in the year
and background pollution concentrations) increases from 14.31µg/m3 (36% of the
objective of 40µg/m3) to 15.96 (40% of the objective).  The maximum hourly
concentrations increase from 20.5µg/m3 to 65.6µg/m3 (10% to 33% of the objective
of 200µg/m3).  However, predicted environmental concentrations remain less than
50% of the objective and hence no health effects are likely.
6.5.4
Impacts on carbon monoxide concentrations remain imperceptible with the one unit
option.
   41
The Progress Power (Gas Fired Power Station) Order 2015
WSP | Parsons Brinckerhoff
Progress Power Limited
Project No 70023845
August 2016
Table 6-2  Maximum predicted concentrations of nitrogen dioxide, assessed
against UK and EU air quality standards over 5 years of meteorological data.
SCENARIO
PROCESS CONTRIBUTION
PREDICTED ENVIRONMENTAL
CONCENTRATION
Minimum
Maximum
Max as %
of Obj.
Minimum
Maximum
Max as %
of Obj.
Annual Mean Nitrogen Dioxide (µg/m3).  Objective = 40µg/m3
Original (5
units)
0.22
0.31
0.8%
14.22
14.31
35.8%
Revised (1
Unit)
1.46
1.96
4.9%
15.46
15.96
39.9%
Hourly Mean Nitrogen Dioxide (µg/m3).  Objective = 200µg/m3
Original (5
units)
15.7
20.5
10.2%
43.7
48.5
24.3%
Revised (1
Unit)
21.9
65.6
32.8%
49.9
93.5
46.8%
Minimum value = the lowest maximum annual average concentration modelled over the 5 years (2008
– 2012); maximum value = the highest maximum annual average concentration over the 5 years.
Predicted Environment Concentration = Process Contribution plus Background Concentrations.
IMPACTS ON ECOLOGICAL RECEPTORS
6.5.5
Table 6-3 and Table 6-4 show the impact of the Project on annual mean and daily
mean nitrogen oxides respectively over the various designated ecological sites for
the five GTG and single GTG specifications.
6.5.6
The impacts of the specification revision are beneficial, with marked reductions in
annual mean and daily mean impacts over all of the sites designated for nature
conservation.  In addition, total pollutant concentrations remain well below the air
quality objectives / standards for the protection of ecosystems, whether the single
GTG or five GTGs is in operation.
6.5.7
Since nitrogen deposition is directly proportional to the modelled concentration of
nitrogen oxides, the impact of the specification revision on nitrogen deposition will
also be beneficial.
6.5.8
For example, over Braiseworth Wood Local Nature Reserve, nitrogen deposition due
to the Project was modelled to be 0.009kgN/ha/yr (0.09% of the critical load of
10kgN/ha/yr) with the 5 unit option.  With the 1 unit option, this reduces to
0.002kgN/ha/yr (0.02% of the critical load).
   42
The Progress Power (Gas Fired Power Station) Order 2015
WSP | Parsons Brinckerhoff
Progress Power Limited
Project No 70023845
August 2016
Table 6-3  Maximum predicted concentrations of annual mean nitrogen oxides
(µg/m3), assessed over 5 years of meteorological data. Objective = 30µg/m3
DESIGNATED
SITE
PROCESS CONTRIBUTION
PREDICTED ENVIRONMENTAL
CONCENTRATION
Original As %
of Obj.
Revise
d
As %
of Obj.
Origin
al
As %
of Obj.
Revise
d
As %
of Obj.
Waveney and
Little Ouse
Valley Fens SAC
0.011 
0.04%
0.003 
0.01%
22.01 
73% 
22.00 
73%
Gypsy Camp
Meadow SSSI
0.028 
0.09%
0.005 
0.02%
22.03 
73% 
22.00 
73%
Major Farm,
Braise-worth
SSSI
0.044 
0.15%
0.009 
0.03%
22.04 
73% 
22.01 
73%
The Penning
LNR
0.050 
0.17%
0.009 
0.03%
22.05 
73% 
22.01 
73%
Mellis Common
LNR
0.020 
0.07%
0.004 
0.01%
22.02 
73% 
22.00 
73%
Thrandeston
Marsh LNR
0.025 
0.08%
0.004 
0.01%
22.02 
73% 
22.00 
73%
Braiseworth
Wood LNR
0.042 
0.14%
0.009 
0.03%
22.04 
73% 
22.01 
73%
Maximum value = the highest maximum annual average concentration over the 5 years.  Predicted
Environment Concentration = Process Contribution plus Background Concentrations.
Table 6-4  Maximum predicted concentrations of daily mean nitrogen oxides
(µg/m3), assessed over 5 years of meteorological data.  Standard = 75µg/m3
DESIGNATED
SITE
PROCESS CONTRIBUTION
PREDICTED ENVIRONMENTAL
CONCENTRATION
Original As %
of Obj.
Revise
d
As %
of Obj.
Origin
al
As %
of Obj.
Revise
d
As %
of Obj.
Waveney and
Little Ouse
Valley Fens SAC
1.3
1.7% 
0.65 
0.9% 
45.3 
60% 
44.7 
60%
Gypsy Camp
Meadow SSSI
5.9
7.9% 
1.41 
1.9% 
49.9 
67% 
45.4 
61%
Major Farm,
Braise-worth
SSSI
4.8
6.5% 
1.47 
2.0% 
48.8 
65% 
45.5 
61%
   43
The Progress Power (Gas Fired Power Station) Order 2015
WSP | Parsons Brinckerhoff
Progress Power Limited
Project No 70023845
August 2016
DESIGNATED
SITE
PROCESS CONTRIBUTION
PREDICTED ENVIRONMENTAL
CONCENTRATION
The Penning
LNR
6.3
8.4% 
2.79 
3.7% 
50.3 
67% 
46.8 
62%
Mellis Common
LNR
4.4
5.9% 
1.62 
2.2% 
48.4 
65% 
45.6 
61%
Thrandeston
Marsh LNR
6.3
8.4% 
2.39 
3.2% 
50.3 
67% 
46.4 
62%
Braiseworth
Wood LNR
4.8
6.4% 
1.47 
2.0% 
48.8 
65% 
45.5 
61%
Maximum value = the highest maximum annual average concentration over the 5 years.  Predicted
Environment Concentration = Process Contribution plus Background Concentrations.
CUMULATIVE EFFECTS
6.5.9
A search of the National Infrastructure Planning register of applications and a search
of Mid Suffolk District Council and Suffolk County Council’s planning applications
register has been undertaken.  No new applications have been registered for
Nationally Significant Infrastructure Projects or major planning applications that
would be required to be considered in the assessment of cumulative effects.
6.5.10
The original assessment explicitly modelled the cumulative impact of the Project with
the existing and proposed wind turbines in the vicinity of the Project.  The conclusion
of the cumulative assessment was that the maximum impacts of the operation of the
GTG(s) increase in comparison to the maximum concentrations without the turbines.
However, the increase was not significant, amounting to approximately 1% or less of
the relevant air quality objectives.
6.5.11
Similar conclusions apply with the revised specification.  Maximum concentrations
increase slightly, but the increase does not result in significant impacts.
MITIGATION AND RESIDUAL EFFECTS
6.5.12
No significant impacts are predicted to arise as a result of the operation of the
Project and, as such, the Project does not warrant mitigation beyond that implicitly
included in the design, namely a stack height between 25 and 30m inclusive, and
emissions control to maintain emissions within the limits set by the IED.  This applies
with the revised specifications.
6.6
CONCLUSIONS
6.6.1
The proposed changes have no material impact on the conclusions of the original
ES.
6.6.2
Overall, the Project, with proposed changes, will continue to have a negligible likely
   44
The Progress Power (Gas Fired Power Station) Order 2015
WSP | Parsons Brinckerhoff
Progress Power Limited
Project No 70023845
August 2016
impact on air quality in relation to both human and ecological receptors during
construction, operation and decommissioning. This applies both for the Project alone
and in combination with other proposed facilities in the vicinity of the Project site.
6.6.3
Impacts on ecological receptors will be imperceptible.
6.6.4
This applies both for the Project alone and in combination with other proposed
facilities in the vicinity of the Project site.
7
CONCLUSIONS
7.1.1
The outcome of the screening and updated assessments confirms that the
conclusions in the ES remain valid for the proposed changes.  The significance of
the impact would be unchanged or reduced. It is therefore considered that the
proposed changes are non-material amendments for the purposes of the
Infrastructure Planning (Changes to, and Revocation of, Development Consent
Orders) Regulations 2011.
45
The Progress Power (Gas Fired Power Station) Order 2015
WSP | Parsons Brinckerhoff
Progress Power Limited
Project No 70023845
August 2016
FIGURES
Project Number:
Revision:
Date:
Scale:
Sheet:
Designed:
Drawn:
Approved:
Checked:
Title:
Site/Project:
Client:
© Copyright Parsons Brinckerhoff
Drawing Number:
Tel:
44-(0)1483-528400
Fax:
44-(0)1483-528989
App
Chk
By
Description
Date
Rev
A1
Westbrook Mills
Godalming
Surrey GU7 2AZ
Project Number:
Revision:
Drawing Number:
A1
7004321B
0
Figure 1
Progress Power Project
SITE PLAN
POWER GENERATION
PLANT
Reg5(2)(o)
INDICATIVE
SPS
RAB
RAB
RAB
15/08/16
1 OF  1
1:1000
0
7004321B
Figure 1
RAB
RAB
SPS
First Issue
15/08/16
0
Project Number:
Revision:
Date:
Scale:
Sheet:
Designed:
Drawn:
Approved:
Checked:
Title:
Site/Project:
Client:
© Copyright Parsons Brinckerhoff
Drawing Number:
Tel:
44-(0)1483-528400
Fax:
44-(0)1483-528989
A3
Westbrook Mills
Godalming
Surrey GU7 2AZ
Project Number:
Revision:
Drawing Number:
App
Chk
By
Description
Date
Rev
Figure 5
0
7004321B
7004321B
0
Figure 5
Progress Power Project
INDICATIVE
SPS
RAB
RAB
15/08/2016
1:750
1 OF 1
GAS TURBINE
GENERATOR
OVERLAY
Reg5(2)(o)
RAB
0
15/08/16
FIRST ISSUE
SPS
RAB
RAB
 
 
 
Appendix 3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Proposed Amendments to Schedule 1 of 
the Order 
 
 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
Article 3 
AUTHORISED DEVELOPMENT 
In the County of Suffolk and the District of Mid Suffolk— 
A nationally significant infrastructure project as defined in sections 14(1)(a) and 15 of the 2008 
Act comprising— 
Work No. 1 – a simple cycle gas fired peaking power generating station on the site of the former 
Eye airfields in Eye, Mid Suffolk with a gross rated electrical output of up to 299MWe 
comprising— 
(1) Work No. 1A— 
(a) up to 5 gas turbine generators; and 
(b) up to 5 exhaust gas emission flue stacks, 
(2) Work No. 1B— 
(a) an administration building; 
(b) a store; 
(c) a control room/office/workshop; 
(d) telemetry apparatus; 
(e) 3 black start diesel generators where one gas turbine generator is constructed and 1 black 
start diesel generator where two, three, four or five gas turbine generators are constructed; 
(f) a raw/fire water tank and demineralised water storage tank; 
(g) a natural gas receiving station and gas treatment compound containing— 
(i) a pipeline inspection gauge (PIG) receiving facility; 
(ii) isolation valves, metering, heating, filtering, compression, pressure regulation 
equipment; 
(iii) electricity supply kiosk; and 
(iv) control and instrumentation kiosks, 
(3) Work No. 1C – a switchyard / banking compound containing up to seven transformers, 
switchgear building and other plant required to manage the transmission of electricity, 
(4) Work No. 1D— 
(a) security infrastructure, including cameras, perimeter fencing and a gatehouse; 
(b) site lighting infrastructure, including perimeter lighting columns; 
(c) internal roadways, car parking, pedestrian network, cycle parking, hardstanding and water 
treatment trailers; 
(d) site drainage, attenuation pond and waste management infrastructure; 
(e) electricity, water, wastewater and telecommunications and other services; 
(f) landscaping including tree planting, fencing and other boundary treatments and ecological 
mitigation; 
(g) high voltage and low voltage cabling, equipment and controls and associated telemetry 
and electrical protection auxiliary cabling; 
(h) underground gas pipeline connection, associated telemetry and cathodic protection test / 
transformer rectifier unit; 
(i) other ancillary equipment including external fin fan cooler; and 
Deleted: a black start diesel generator
 
 
2 
(j) new means of accesses from Potash Lane including permanent road surface, drainage, 
gates and fencing, 
Work No. 2— 
(a) a maintenance compound including new hardstanding, 
(b) landscaping including tree planting, fencing and other boundary treatments; and 
(c) site drainage, 
Associated development within the meaning of section 115(2) of the 2008 Act in connection with 
the nationally significant infrastructure project referred to in Work No. 1 comprising— 
Work No. 3A— 
(a) an above ground installation (also referred to as a minimum offtake connection 
compound) containing— 
(i) a minimum offtake connection comprising remotely operable valves, control and 
instrumentation kiosks and electrical supply kiosks; 
(ii) a pipeline inspection gauge (PIG) facility, comprising a PIG launching facility, 
emergency control valves, isolation valves, control and instrumentation kiosks, and 
electricity supply kiosks; 
(b) security infrastructure, including cameras, lighting (including perimeter lighting columns) 
and perimeter fencing; 
(c) site drainage and waste management infrastructure; 
(d) electricity and telecommunications connections and other services; 
(e) below ground sacrificial anode pit; and 
(f) landscaping including tree planting, fencing and other boundary treatments and ecological 
mitigation, 
Work No. 3B – new means of access between Potash Lane and numbered work 3A, including 
signing and road markings works, permanent road surface, gates, fencing, drainage, infilling, 
landscaping and tree and hedge removal and other incidental works, 
Work No. 4— 
(a) a new underground gas pipeline connection and telemetry cabling, approximately 1.7 km 
in length connecting the natural gas receiving station and gas treatment compound in 
Work No. 1B to Work No. 3A; 
(b) pipeline field marker posts and cathodic protection test/ transformer rectifier unit; 
(c) below ground drainage works; 
(d) tree and hedge removal; and 
landscaping including tree planting, fencing and other boundary treatments and ecological 
mitigation. 
Work No. 5— 
(a) 400 kV substation and site office and welfare accommodation; 
(b) 400 kV cable sealing end compound; 
(c) underground high voltage electrical cables and associated telemetry and electrical 
protection auxiliary cabling; 
(d) security infrastructure including perimeter fencing with gates, security cameras and site 
lighting; 
(e) landscaping including bunds, tree planting, fencing and other boundary treatments and 
ecological mitigation; 
(f) site drainage and waste management infrastructure; and 
 
 
3 
(g) internal roadways, car parking, pedestrian network and hardstanding for planned 
maintenance. 
Work No. 6— 
(a) an underground 400 kV electrical cable circuit and associated telemetry and electrical 
protection auxiliary cabling, approximately 1.6 km in length; and 
(b) joint bays in relation to Work No. 6a. 
Work No. 7 – new means of access between Work No. 5 and the A140 including road widening, 
new turning lane, signing and road markings works, permanent road surface, gates, fencing, 
drainage, infilling, landscaping and tree and hedge removal and other incidental works, 
In connection with Works No. 1 to 7, and to the extent that they do not otherwise form part of any 
such works, further associated development comprising such other works or operations as may be 
necessary or expedient for the purposes of or in connection with the construction, operation and 
maintenance of the works in this Schedule, whether or not shown on the plans referred to in the 
Requirements, and falling within the scope of the works assessed in the environmental statement. 
 
 
 
 
Appendix 4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Proposed Amendments to Table 2 in 
Requirement 4 of Schedule 2 of the Order 
Building 
or 
structure 
Maximum 
height (metres 
above existing 
site 
level 
of 
approximately 
48.5 
metres 
AOD) 
Minimum 
height (metres 
above existing 
site 
level 
of 
approximately 
48.5 
metres 
AOD) 
Maximum 
length 
(metres) 
Minimu
m length 
(metres) 
Maximum 
width 
(metres) 
Minimum 
width 
(metres) 
Each gas 
turbine 
generator 
(where one gas 
turbine 
generator is 
constructed) 
(part of 
numbered work 
1A) 
19.0 
- 
50.0 
- 
40.0 
- 
Each gas 
turbine 
generator 
(where one or 
two gas turbine 
generators are 
constructed) 
(part of 
numbered work 
1A) 
19.0 
- 
30.0 
- 
30.0 
- 
Each gas 
turbine 
generator 
(where three, 
four or five gas 
turbine 
generators are 
constructed) 
(part of 
numbered work 
1A) 
10.0 
- 
36.0 
- 
23.0 
- 
 
2
Building 
or 
structure 
Maximum 
height (metres 
above existing 
site 
level 
of 
approximately 
48.5 
metres 
AOD) 
Minimum 
height (metres 
above existing 
site 
level 
of 
approximately 
48.5 
metres 
AOD) 
Maximum 
length 
(metres) 
Minimu
m length 
(metres) 
Maximum 
width 
(metres) 
Minimum 
width 
(metres) 
Each exhaust 
gas emission 
flue stack 
(where one gas 
turbine  
generator is 
constructed) 
(part of 
numbered 
work 1A) 
30.0 
25.0 
- 
- 
11.0 
metres up 
to 
and 
including 
a height of 
16.5 
metres 
above 
48.5m 
AOD and 
10 metres 
from 
a 
height of 
16.5 
metres 
above 
48.5m 
AOD to a 
height of 
30.0 
metres 
above 
48.5m 
AOD 
- 
Each exhaust 
gas emission 
flue stack  
(where one or 
two gas 
turbine 
generators are 
constructed) 
(part of 
numbered 
work 1A) 
30.0 
25.0 
- 
- 
8.4 
- 
Each exhaust 
gas emission 
flue stack 
(where three, 
four or five 
gas turbine 
generators are 
constructed) 
(part of 
numbered 
work 1A) 
30.0 
25.0 
- 
- 
6.0 
- 
 
3
Building 
or 
structure 
Maximum 
height (metres 
above existing 
site 
level 
of 
approximately 
48.5 
metres 
AOD) 
Minimum 
height (metres 
above existing 
site 
level 
of 
approximately 
48.5 
metres 
AOD) 
Maximum 
length 
(metres) 
Minimu
m length 
(metres) 
Maximum 
width 
(metres) 
Minimum 
width 
(metres) 
Control 
room/office/ 
workshop 
(part of 
numbered 
work 1B) 
6.0 
- 
29.0 
- 
23.0 
- 
Black Each 
black start 
diesel 
generator 
(part of 
numbered 
work 1B) 
5.0 
- 
13.017.0 
- 
5.0 
- 
Raw/fire 
water tank 
(part of 
numbered 
work 1B) 
11.0 
- 
11.0 
- 
11.0 
- 
Demineralise 
d water tank 
(part of 
numbered 
work 1B) 
2.0 
- 
2.0 
- 
2.0 
- 
Natural gas 
receiving 
station (part of 
numbered work 
1B) 
5.0  
- 
50.0  
- 
36.0  
- 
Gas receiving 
station 
treatment 
compound (part 
of numbered 
work 1B) 
3.05.0  
- 
50.029.0  
- 
46.016.0  
- 
Switchyard 
/banking 
compound 
(numbered 
work 1C) 
11.3 
- 
60.0 
- 
60.0 
- 
Switchgear 
Building (part 
of numbered 
work 1C) 
11.3 
- 
21.0 
- 
15.0 
- 
Gatehouse 
(part of 
numbered 
work 1D) 
4.5 
- 
9.0 
- 
8.0 
- 
 
4
Building 
or 
structure 
Maximum 
height (metres 
above existing 
site 
level 
of 
approximately 
48.5 
metres 
AOD) 
Minimum 
height (metres 
above existing 
site 
level 
of 
approximately 
48.5 
metres 
AOD) 
Maximum 
length 
(metres) 
Minimu
m length 
(metres) 
Maximum 
width 
(metres) 
Minimum 
width 
(metres) 
Above ground 
installation 
(numbered 
work 3A) 
3.0 
- 
72.0 
- 
52.0 
- 
Pipeline 
inspection 
gauge facility 
(part of 
numbered 
work 3A) 
2.0 
- 
36.0 
- 
27.0 
- 
Minimum 
offtake 
connection 
(part of 
numbered 
work 3A) 
2.0 
- 
36.0 
- 
25.0 
- 
Sealing end 
compound 
(part of 
numbered 
work 5) 
12.5 
- 
22.0 
- 
45.0 
- 
Substation: 
(gas insulated 
substation) – 
(maximum 
compound 
size) (part of 
numbered 
work 5)(gas 
insulated 
substation) – 
(indoor 
switchgear 
hall) (part of 
numbered 
work 5) 
12.5 
12.5 
 
 
- 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
 
 
80.0 
21.0 
 
- 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
 
 
 
100.0 
62.0 
 
- 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
 
External fin fan 
cooler (where 
one gas turbine 
generator is 
constructed) 
(part of 
numbered work 
1D) 
6.0 
- 
13.0 
- 
10.0 
- 
 
 
 
 
Appendix 5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Photomontages 
This map is reproduced from Ordanance Survey material with the permission of ordanance 
Survey on behalf of the Controller of Her Majesty’s Stationery Office © Crown Copyright. 
Unauthorised reproduction infringes Crown coyright and may lead to prosecution or civil 
proceedings.
Project Title
Progress Power Project
Date 
 
25/07/16
Paper  
 
840x597mm
Status 
 
Final
Approved  
CM
Client
Location Plan - 1 : 50,000 
Viewpoint Information
Grid Reference: 
       614365 : 274509
Elevation: 
       41m
Viewer Height: 
       1.6m 
Viewing Distance:        463mm
Angle Width: 
       900
Camera & Lens: 
       Digital SLR Nikon D3200.  
 
 
       Nikkor afs dx 35mm Fixed f1.g Lens
Date Taken: 
       17/02/14 
 
Distance from Project: 1.3km
*  Images should be curved in a concave manner towards the Viewer to show the right    
     perspective
Progress Power  |  Size 840mm x 550mm  |  Figure 5.1  |  VP02  |  Location: Victoria Hill (B1077), Eye  |  Grid Reference: 614365, 274509
Drawing Number
Figure 5.1 Sheet 1 of 2
Drawing Title
Viewpoint VP02 : Victoria Hill (B1077), Eye 
Power Generation Plant as Existing
Power Generation Plant
This map is reproduced from Ordanance Survey material with the permission of ordanance 
Survey on behalf of the Controller of Her Majesty’s Stationery Office © Crown Copyright. 
Unauthorised reproduction infringes Crown coyright and may lead to prosecution or civil 
proceedings.
Project Title
Progress Power Project
Date 
 
25/07/16
Paper  
 
840x597mm
Status 
 
Final
Approved  
CM
Client
Location Plan - 1 : 50,000 
Viewpoint Information
Grid Reference: 
       614365 : 274509
Elevation: 
       41m
Viewer Height: 
       1.6m 
Viewing Distance:        463mm
Angle Width: 
       900
Camera & Lens: 
       Digital SLR Nikon D3200.  
 
 
       Nikkor afs dx 35mm Fixed f1.g Lens
Date Taken: 
       17/02/14 
 
Distance from Project: 1.3km
*  Images should be curved in a concave manner towards the Viewer to show the right    
     perspective
Progress Power  |  Size 840mm x 550mm  |  Figure 5.1  |  VP02  |  Location: Victoria Hill (B1077), Eye  |  Grid Reference: 614365, 274509
Drawing Number
Figure 5.1 Sheet 2 of 2
Drawing Title
Viewpoint VP02 : Victoria Hill (B1077), Eye  
Power Generation Plant Year 1 
Power Generation Plant Consented Under  
the DCO for Five GTGs
Proposed Power Generation Plant for One GTG
Photomontage Year One
Photomontage Year One
This map is reproduced from Ordanance Survey material with the permission of ordanance 
Survey on behalf of the Controller of Her Majesty’s Stationery Office © Crown Copyright. 
Unauthorised reproduction infringes Crown coyright and may lead to prosecution or civil 
proceedings.
Project Title
Progress Power Project
Date 
 
25/07/16
Paper  
 
840x597mm
Status 
 
Final
Approved  
CM
Client
Location Plan - 1 : 50,000 
Viewpoint Information
Grid Reference: 
       614365 : 274509
Elevation: 
       41m
Viewer Height: 
       1.6m 
Viewing Distance:        463mm
Angle Width: 
       900
Camera & Lens: 
       Digital SLR Nikon D3200.  
 
 
       Nikkor afs dx 35mm Fixed f1.g Lens
Date Taken: 
       17/02/14 
 
Distance from Project: 1.3km
*  Images should be curved in a concave manner towards the Viewer to show the right    
     perspective
Progress Power  |  Size 840mm x 550mm  |  Figure 5.1  |  VP02  |  Location: Victoria Hill (B1077), Eye  |  Grid Reference: 614365, 274509
Drawing Number
Figure 5.1 Sheet 2 of 2
Drawing Title
Viewpoint VP02 : Victoria Hill (B1077), Eye  
Power Generation Plant Year 1 
Power Generation Plant Consented Under  
the DCO for One GTG
Proposed Power Generation Plant for One GTG
Photomontage Year One
Photomontage Year One
This map is reproduced from Ordanance Survey material with the permission of ordanance 
Survey on behalf of the Controller of Her Majesty’s Stationery Office © Crown Copyright. 
Unauthorised reproduction infringes Crown coyright and may lead to prosecution or civil 
proceedings.
Project Title
Progress Power Project
Date 
 
21/08/14
Paper  
 
840x550mm
Status 
 
Final
Approved  
CM
Client
Location Plan - 1 : 50,000 
Viewpoint Information
Grid Reference: 
       613862 : 274352
Elevation: 
       40m
Viewer Height: 
       1.6m 
Viewing Distance:        463mm
Angle Width: 
       900
Camera & Lens: 
       Digital SLR Nikon D3200.  
 
 
       Nikkor afs dx 35mm Fixed f1.g Lens
Date Taken: 
       17/02/14 
 
Distance from Project: 1.1km
*  Images should be curved in a concave manner towards the Viewer to show the right    
     perspective
Progress Power  |  Size 840mm x 550mm  |  Figure 5.2  |  VP03  |  Location: Allotments off Gaye Crescent, Eye   |  Grid Reference: 613862 : 274352
Drawing Title
Viewpoint VP03 : Allotments off Gaye Crescent, Eye 
Power Generation Plant as Existing 
Drawing Number
Figure 5.2 Sheet 1 of 2
Power Generation Plant
This map is reproduced from Ordanance Survey material with the permission of ordanance 
Survey on behalf of the Controller of Her Majesty’s Stationery Office © Crown Copyright. 
Unauthorised reproduction infringes Crown coyright and may lead to prosecution or civil 
proceedings.
Project Title
Progress Power Project
Date 
 
21/08/14
Paper  
 
840x550mm
Status 
 
Final
Approved  
CM
Client
Location Plan - 1 : 50,000 
Viewpoint Information
Grid Reference: 
       613862 : 274352
Elevation: 
       40m
Viewer Height: 
       1.6m 
Viewing Distance:        463mm
Angle Width: 
       900
Camera & Lens: 
       Digital SLR Nikon D3200.  
 
 
       Nikkor afs dx 35mm Fixed f1.g Lens
Date Taken: 
       17/02/14 
 
Distance from Project: 1.1km
*  Images should be curved in a concave manner towards the Viewer to show the right    
     perspective
Progress Power  |  Size 840mm x 550mm  |  Figure 5.2  |  VP03  |  Location: Allotments off Gaye Crescent, Eye   |  Grid Reference: 613862 : 274352
Power Generation Plant Consented Under  
the DCO for Five GTGs
Proposed Power Generation Plant  
for One GTG
Photomontage Year One
Photomontage Year One
Drawing Number
Figure 5.2 Sheet 2 of 2
Drawing Title
Viewpoint VP03 : Allotments off Gaye Crescent, Eye 
Power Generation Plant Year 1 
This map is reproduced from Ordanance Survey material with the permission of ordanance 
Survey on behalf of the Controller of Her Majesty’s Stationery Office © Crown Copyright. 
Unauthorised reproduction infringes Crown coyright and may lead to prosecution or civil 
proceedings.
Project Title
Progress Power Project
Date 
 
21/08/14
Paper  
 
840x550mm
Status 
 
Final
Approved  
CM
Client
Location Plan - 1 : 50,000 
Viewpoint Information
Grid Reference: 
       613862 : 274352
Elevation: 
       40m
Viewer Height: 
       1.6m 
Viewing Distance:        463mm
Angle Width: 
       900
Camera & Lens: 
       Digital SLR Nikon D3200.  
 
 
       Nikkor afs dx 35mm Fixed f1.g Lens
Date Taken: 
       17/02/14 
 
Distance from Project: 1.1km
*  Images should be curved in a concave manner towards the Viewer to show the right    
     perspective
Progress Power  |  Size 840mm x 550mm  |  Figure 5.2  |  VP03  |  Location: Allotments off Gaye Crescent, Eye   |  Grid Reference: 613862 : 274352
Power Generation Plant Consented Under  
the DCO for One GTG
Proposed Power Generation Plant  
for One GTG
Photomontage Year One
Photomontage Year One
This map is reproduced from Ordanance Survey material with the permission of ordanance 
Survey on behalf of the Controller of Her Majesty’s Stationery Office © Crown Copyright. 
Unauthorised reproduction infringes Crown coyright and may lead to prosecution or civil 
proceedings.
Project Title
Progress Power Project
Date 
 
02/08/16
Paper  
 
840x550mm
Status 
 
Final
Approved  
CM
Client
Location Plan - 1 : 50,000 
Viewpoint Information
Grid Reference: 
       612489 : 273679
Elevation: 
       45m
Viewer Height: 
       1.6m 
Viewing Distance:        463mm
Angle Width: 
       900
Camera & Lens: 
       Digital SLR Nikon D3200.  
 
 
       Nikkor afs dx 35mm Fixed f1.g Lens
Date Taken: 
       17/02/14 
 
Distance from Project: 0.5km
*  Images should be curved in a concave manner towards the Viewer to show the right    
     perspective
Progress Power  |  Size 840mm x 550mm  |  Figure 5.3  |  VP11  |  Location: Hall Farm, Yaxley   |  Grid Reference: 612489 : 273679
Drawing Number
Figure 5.3 Sheet 1 of 2
Drawing Title
Viewpoint VP11 : Hall Farm, Yaxley
Power Generation Plant & Above Ground Installation 
as Existing
Above Ground Installation
Power Generation Plant
This map is reproduced from Ordanance Survey material with the permission of ordanance 
Survey on behalf of the Controller of Her Majesty’s Stationery Office © Crown Copyright. 
Unauthorised reproduction infringes Crown coyright and may lead to prosecution or civil 
proceedings.
Project Title
Progress Power Project
Date 
 
02/08/16
Paper  
 
840x550mm
Status 
 
Final
Approved  
CM
Client
Location Plan - 1 : 50,000 
Viewpoint Information
Grid Reference: 
       612489 : 273679
Elevation: 
       45m
Viewer Height: 
       1.6m 
Viewing Distance:        463mm
Angle Width: 
       900
Camera & Lens: 
       Digital SLR Nikon D3200.  
 
 
       Nikkor afs dx 35mm Fixed f1.g Lens
Date Taken: 
       17/02/14 
 
Distance from Project: 0.5km
*  Images should be curved in a concave manner towards the Viewer to show the right    
     perspective
Progress Power  |  Size 840mm x 550mm  |  Figure 5.3  |  VP11  |  Location: Hall Farm, Yaxley   |  Grid Reference: 612489 : 273679
Above Ground Installation 
Consented Under the DCO
Above Ground Installation 
Proposed Changes
Drawing Number
Figure 5.3 Sheet 2 of 2
Drawing Title
Viewpoint VP11 : Hall Farm, Yaxley
Power Generation Plant & Above Ground Installation 
Year 1
Photomontage Year One
Photomontage Year One
Power Generation Plant Consented 
Under the DCO for Five GTGs
Proposed Power Generation Plant 
for One GTG 
This map is reproduced from Ordanance Survey material with the permission of ordanance 
Survey on behalf of the Controller of Her Majesty’s Stationery Office © Crown Copyright. 
Unauthorised reproduction infringes Crown coyright and may lead to prosecution or civil 
proceedings.
Project Title
Progress Power Project
Date 
 
02/08/16
Paper  
 
840x550mm
Status 
 
Final
Approved  
CM
Client
Location Plan - 1 : 50,000 
Viewpoint Information
Grid Reference: 
       612489 : 273679
Elevation: 
       45m
Viewer Height: 
       1.6m 
Viewing Distance:        463mm
Angle Width: 
       900
Camera & Lens: 
       Digital SLR Nikon D3200.  
 
 
       Nikkor afs dx 35mm Fixed f1.g Lens
Date Taken: 
       17/02/14 
 
Distance from Project: 0.5km
*  Images should be curved in a concave manner towards the Viewer to show the right    
     perspective
Progress Power  |  Size 840mm x 550mm  |  Figure 5.3  |  VP11  |  Location: Hall Farm, Yaxley   |  Grid Reference: 612489 : 273679
Above Ground Installation 
Consented Under the DCO
Above Ground Installation 
Proposed Changes
Photomontage Year One
Photomontage Year One
Power Generation Plant Consented 
Under the DCO for One GTG
Proposed Power Generation Plant 
for One GTG 
Drawing Number
Figure 5.3 Sheet 2 of 2
Drawing Title
Viewpoint VP11 : Hall Farm, Yaxley
Power Generation Plant & Above Ground Installation 
Year 1
