 
 
 
 
The Progress Power  
(Gas Fired Power Station) Order 
 
5.3 Consultation Report Non-Technical Summary 
 
Planning Act 2008 
The Infrastructure Planning (Applications: Prescribed Forms and Procedure) Regulations 2009 
 
PINS Reference Number:  
 
EN010060 
Document Reference: 
 
 
5.3 
Regulation Number: 
 
 
r5(2)(q) & s37(3)(c) PA 2008 
Author: 
 
 
 
 
Peter Brett Associates LLP 
 
Revision 
 
Date  
 
Description  
 
0 
 
 
March 2014  
Submission version 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.3 Consultation Report 
Progress Power Station 
 
 
 
ii 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Peter Brett Associates LLP disclaims any responsibility to the Client and others in 
respect of any matters outside the scope of this report.  This report has been 
prepared with reasonable skill, care and diligence within the terms of the Contract 
with the Client and taking account of the manpower, resources, investigations and 
testing devoted to it by agreement with the Client.  Peter Brett Associates LLP 
accepts no responsibility of whatsoever nature to third parties to whom this report or 
any part thereof is made known.  Any such party relies upon the report at their own 
risk. 
 
© Peter Brett Associates LLP 2014 
 
 
iii 
Glossary 
A140 Junction: means the new junction from the A140 (Work No. 7 in the draft 
DCO); 
A140 Junction Site: means the site of the A140 Junction (Work No. 7 shown on the 
Works Plan); 
Above Ground Installation (AGI): means the above ground installation 
incorporating the minimum offtake and the PIG trap launching facility together (Work 
No. 3A in the draft DCO) with the access as (Work No. 3B in the draft DCO); 
AGI Site: the site of the AGI and access (Work No. 3A shown on the Works Plan); 
Access Road: means the access road following the Electrical Connection Route 
Corridor (Work No. 7 in the draft DCO); 
Access Road Route: means the route of the Access Road (Work No. 7 shown on 
the Works Plan); 
Act: means the Planning Act 2008; 
APFP Regulations: means the Infrastructure Planning (Applications: Prescribed 
Forms and Procedure) Regulations 2009; 
Application: means the application for a DCO made to the Secretary of State under 
s37 of the Act in respect of the Project, required pursuant to s31 of the Act because 
the Project constitutes a Nationally Significant Infrastructure Project under s4(1)(a) 
and s15 of the Act by virtue of being an onshore generating station in England or 
Wales of 50 MWe capacity or more; 
Cable: means the cable circuit connecting the Electrical Connection Compound and 
the Power Generation Plant (Work No. 6 in the draft DCO); 
The Developer: means PPL; 
DCO: means a development consent order made by the Secretary of State pursuant 
to the Planning Act 2008 to authorise a nationally significant infrastructure project.  A 
draft of the DCO for the Project, The Progress Power (Gas Fired Power Station) 
Order, is submitted with the Application at Document Reference 3.1; 
Electrical Connection Route Corridor: means the corridor in which the Cable is 
located (Work No. 6 shown on the Works Plan); 
Electrical Connection: means the Cable, the Electrical Connection Compound, the 
Access Road and the A140 Junction;  
Electrical Connection Compound: means the substation and the sealing end 
compound (Work No. 5 in the draft DCO);  
Electrical Connection Compound Site: means the site of the Electrical Connection 
Compound (Work No. 5 shown on the Land Plan);  
Electrical Connection Site: means the site of the Electrical Connection (Works No. 
5, 6 and 7 shown on the Works Plan); 
Gas Connection: means the Pipeline and the AGI; 
Gas Connection Route Corridor: means the corridor in which the Pipeline is 
located (Work No. 4 shown on the Works Plan); 
 
 
iv 
Gas Connection Site: means the site of the Gas Connection (Works No. 3A, 3B and 
4 shown on the Works Plan); 
Guidance: means the Department of Communities and Local Government guidance, 
'Planning Act 2008: Guidance related to procedures for the compulsory acquisition of 
land' (September 2013); 
Land Plans: means the plans showing the land which is to be the subject of 
compulsory acquisition and submitted with the Application at Document Reference 
2.6; 
MWe: means Megawatts electrical; 
NTS: means National Gas Transmission System; 
Order Land: means the land shown on the Land Plans which is within the Order 
Limits and which is to be the subject of compulsory acquisition; 
Order Limits: means the limits shown on the Works Plans within which the Project 
may be carried out; 
PIG: means Pipeline Inspection Gauge 
Pipeline: means the gas pipeline (Work No. 4 in the draft DCO); 
Power Generation Plant: a SCGT gas fired ‘peaking’ power generating plant 
capable of providing up to 299 MWe together with the maintenance area (Work No. 2 
in the draft DCO); 
Power Generation Plant Site: the site of the Power Generation Plant (Works No. 
1A, 1B, 1C, 1D and 2 shown on the Works Plan);  
PPL: a special purpose vehicle which has been set up to develop the proposed 
Project and has been established by Watt Power Limited (WPL). WPL has been 
established to develop flexible gas fired generation assets to support the UK 
Government drive to a low carbon economy.  WPL has its project dedicated 
personnel sourced through an experienced management company, Stag Energy, 
founded in 2002; 
Project: means the Power Generation Plant, Electrical Connection and Gas 
Connection located on the Project Site; 
Project Site: the entire area covered by the Project corresponding to the Order 
Limits of the draft DCO;  
SCGT: simple cycle gas turbine; and 
Works Plans: means the plans showing the numbered works referred to in the draft 
DCO and submitted with the Application at Document Reference 2.7. 
WPL: means Watt Power Limited, established to develop flexible gas fired generation 
assets to support the UK Government drive to a low carbon economy. WPL has set 
up Progress Power Limited, a Special Purpose Vehicle to develop the Project; 
 
 
v 
Acronyms  
AQMA 
Air Quality Management Area. An area that a local authority has 
designated for action, based upon predicted exceedences of Air 
Quality Objectives. 
AGI  
Above Ground Installation Situated within the Gas Connection site 
(Work No 4A) and containing the MOC and PTF. *The other 
‘above ground installation’ comprising the natural gas receiving 
station and compound is part of the Power Generation Plant site 
(Work No 2B). 
APFP Regulations Infrastructure Planning (Applications: Prescribed Forms and 
Procedures) Regulations 2009. Sets out the detailed procedures 
which must be followed for submitting and publicising applications 
for Nationally Significant Infrastructure Projects 
CEMP 
Construction 
Environmental 
Management 
Plan. 
Strategic 
document setting out best practice methods to minimise 
environmental impacts (including dust) during construction. 
CHP 
Combined Heat and Power. A cogeneration power station capable 
of supplying power to the National Grid and also heat to local heat 
users (such as industry or leisure) through a direct connection to 
waste heat / steam produced as part of the combustion process. 
DAS 
Design and Access Statement. A short report accompanying and 
supporting a planning application. It provides a framework for 
applicants to explain how a proposed design is an appropriate 
response to the site and its setting, and demonstrate that it can be 
adequately accessed by prospective users. 
DCO 
Development Consent Order. Consent by a UK Government 
Minister for a Nationally Significant Infrastructure Project. A DCO 
can incorporate or override the need for a variety of consents 
which would otherwise be required for a development. A DCO can 
also include rights of compulsory acquisition.  
DECC 
Department for Energy and Climate Change. UK Government 
department responsible for policy and maintaining international 
and industry relations to support a continuous UK energy supply, 
reduce greenhouse emissions and adapt to climate change 
EfW 
Energy from Waste, A power plant which generates energy in the 
form of electricity and/or heat from the incineration or pyrolysis of 
waste products. 
EIA 
Environmental Impact Assessment. The body of work which 
evaluates the potential likely significant environmental effects of 
the Project. Undertaken in accordance with the Infrastructure 
Planning (Environmental Impact Assessment) Regulations 2009. 
 
 
 
vi 
EA                     
Environment 
Agency. 
A 
Regulatory 
Authority 
and 
main 
environmental advisor to the English Government. 
EPS 
European Protected Species are animals and plants that receive 
protection under the Conservation of Habitats and Species 
Regulations 2010, in addition to the Wildlife and Countryside Act 
1981 (as amended). 
ES 
Environmental Statement. The final document which provides a 
comprehensive 
discussion 
on 
the 
Environmental 
Impact 
Assessment. 
GTG 
A type of internal combustion engine using compressed air and 
igniting gas to rotate the turbine to create electricity. The GTGs 
may be aero-derivative gas turbine generator(s) (i.e. turbines 
derived from the aeronautical industry) which are suitable for 
frequent start-ups, flexible, highly efficient and give high 
availability. To achieve up to a combined nominal gross electrical 
output of 299 MWe, PPL envisage using 3, 4 or 5 individual aero-
derivative GTGs. ‘Industrial’ type units can also be used which are 
typically larger and often more suited to longer operational hours.  
They offer more efficiency but less flexibility. Industrial gas 
turbines differ from aeronautical designs in that the frames, 
bearings, and blading are of heavier construction. To achieve up 
to 299 MWe, HPL would propose to use 1 or 2 individual industrial 
GTGs. 
HGV 
Heavy Goods Vehicle. A mechanically propelled road vehicle that 
is of a construction primarily suited for the carriage of goods or 
burden of any kind and designed or adapted to have a maximum 
weight exceeding 3,500 kilograms when in normal use and 
travelling on a road laden. 
Ha 
Hectare. A unit of area (10,000  m2  / 2.471 acres) 
HIA 
Health Impact Assessment. An assessment of the health effects of 
the development based on a range of structured and evaluated 
sources of qualitative and quantitative evidence.  The approach is 
particularly concerned with the distribution of effects and therefore 
how health and social inequalities might be reduced or widened by 
particular proposals, in this case the Progress Power Project. 
PPL  
Progress Power Limited. A subsidiary business of Watt Power 
Limited (WPL). WPL has been established to develop flexible gas 
fired generation assets to support the UK Government drive to a 
low carbon economy.  WPL is resourced through Stag Energy, a 
company founded in 2002.  
HRA 
Habitats Regulation Assessment. A recognised step by step 
process which helps determine likely significant effect and (where 
appropriate) assess adverse impacts on the integrity of a 
European site, examines alternative solutions, and provides 
justification for imperative reasons of over-riding public interest. 
 
 
vii 
HSE 
Health and Safety Executive. The national independent watchdog 
for work-related health, safety and illness. It acts in the public 
interest to reduce work-related death and serious injury across 
Great Britain’s workplaces. HSE is an executive non-departmental 
public body of the Department for Work & Pensions 
IED 
Industrial Emissions Directive. European legislation recasting 
seven existing European Directives including the IPPCD and the 
LCBD. 
IPC 
Infrastructure 
Planning 
Commission 
(Now 
abolished 
and 
references to "IPC" should be read as "Examining Authority" or 
"the Secretary of State", as appropriate). 
LDP 
Local Development Plan. The set of documents and plans that 
sets out the local authority's policies and proposals for the 
development and use of land in their area, adopted in accordance 
with the Planning and Compulsory Purchase Act 2004. 
LTS 
Local Transmission System. The LTS transports gas from NTS 
offtakes towards and between urban areas, in addition, a number 
of large industrial gas users and power stations are supplied 
directly. Gas fed from the NTS is fed into the LTS steel pipeline 
network at pressures typically in the range 38barg to 70barg. 
MSDC 
Mid Suffolk District Council, the lower tier local authority for the 
Project Site.  
MOC 
Minimum Offtake Connection. A connection that will offtake gas 
directly from the National Transmission System. Part of the AGI 
within the Gas Connection site 
MW 
Mega Watt. A measurement of power. 
MWe 
Mega Watt Electrical. 
NETS 
National electricity transmission System.  
NGC 
National Grid’s principal operations are the ownership and 
operation of regulated electricity and gas infrastructure networks in 
the UK and the US, serving around 19 million consumers directly 
and many more indirectly. The company also has interests in 
related markets, including electricity interconnectors, metering 
services, liquefied natural gas (LNG) facilities and property in the 
UK, LNG storage and transportation and non-regulated gas 
transmission pipelines in the US. The company has over 27,500 
employees located in the UK and the US. In the UK the company’s 
principal regulated businesses are: 
The transmission of electricity and gas in the UK as owner and 
operator of the high voltage electricity transmission network 
(NETS) in England and Wales, the gas national transmission 
system (NTS) in Great Britain, the electricity interconnector with 
 
 
viii 
France and storage facilities for LNG. Operator of the electricity 
transmission networks in Scotland. 
The distribution of gas in England as owner and operator of four of 
Great Britain’s eight gas distribution networks. 
NOx 
Nitrous oxides. Gases produced during combustion including nitric 
oxide (NO) and nitrogen dioxide (NO2). 
NPS 
National 
Policy 
Statement. 
Overarching 
legislative 
policy 
concerning the planning and consenting of NSIPs in the UK. 
NSIP 
Nationally 
Significant 
Infrastructure 
Project. 
The 
Project 
constitutes a Nationally Significant Infrastructure Project (NSIP) by 
virtue of s.14(1)(a) and s.15 of the Planning Act 2008 (PA 2008) 
which include within the definition of a NSIP any onshore 
generating station in England or Wales of 50 MWe capacity or 
more. 
NSR 
Noise Sensitive Receptor. Principally houses (existing or for which 
planning consent is being sought / has been given) and any 
building used for long-term residential purposes (such as a nursing 
home). 
NTS 
National Transmission System. A network of gas pipelines 
throughout the United Kingdom that supply gas to power stations 
from natural gas terminals situated on the coast, and also gas 
distribution companies which lead indirectly to homes. 
PEIR 
Preliminary Environmental Information Report, a document which 
contains information compiled by the applicant for a DCO and 
which is reasonably required to assess the environmental effects 
of the development.  This is a statutory required document, which 
must be published during statutory consultation.  
PPE 
Personal Protective Equipment. Protective garments or equipment 
designed to protect the wearer's body from injury. 
PM10/2.5 
Particulate Matter.  Airborne particle size, PM10 particles (the 
fraction of particulates in air of very small size (<10 µm)) and 
PM2.5 particles (<2.5 µm) are pollutants.  They are small enough 
to penetrate deep into the lungs and so potentially pose significant 
health risks. The principal source of airborne PM10 and PM2.5 
matter in European cities is road traffic emissions, particularly from 
diesel vehicles.  
PTF 
PIG Trap Facility. PIG traps allow PIGs to be inserted into 
and removed from a pipeline which is to undergo a ‘pigging’ 
program and which is likely to be under pressure. 
SCC 
Suffolk County Council, the upper tier local authority for the Project 
Site.  
SCGT  
Simple cycle gas turbine. 
 
 
ix 
SoS 
Secretary of State. The decision maker for a NSIP application and 
head of a government department. 
SoCC  
Statement of Community Consultation. A statement describing 
how the promoter (applicant) proposes to consult the local 
community about the proposals. 
SoCG  
Statement of Common Ground. A written statement prepared 
jointly by the applicant and another party or parties, setting out any 
matters on which they agree. 
SPG 
Supplementary Planning Guidance. Non-statutory guidance which 
supplies supporting information in respect of policies in a current 
or emerging local plan or national policy. It is a means of setting 
out more detailed thematic or site-specific guidance on how these 
policies will be applied. 
SPV  
Special Purpose Vehicle. A legal entity created to fulfil the specific 
purpose of developing a power project. 
TA 
Transport Assessment. An assessment of the availability of, and 
levels of access to, all forms of transportation, to support a 
planning application. 
TCPA  
Town and Country Planning Act 1990. An act of the British 
Parliament regulating the development of land in England and 
Wales 
UK 
United Kingdom. The territory of the United Kingdom. 
WPL 
Watt Power Limited.  WPL is an independent company established 
to develop flexible gas fired generation assets to support the UK 
Government drive to a low carbon economy. 
 
 
 
x 
This page is intentionally blank 
 
 
 
xi 
Contents 
1 
Introduction ................................................................................................................ 1 
1.1 The Project ..................................................................................................................... 1 
1.2 This Non-Technical Summary ........................................................................................ 1 
1.3 Approach ........................................................................................................................ 1 
2 
Guidance and Stages ................................................................................................. 3 
3 
Consultation Activities and Feedback ...................................................................... 6 
3.1 Previous Consultation ..................................................................................................... 6 
3.2 Non Statutory Consultation & EIA Scoping ..................................................................... 6 
3.3 EIA Scoping...................................................................................................................12 
3.4 Statement of Community Consultation (SoCC) ..............................................................13 
3.5 Sections 42, 47 and 48 Statutory Consultation and Publicity .........................................14 
3.6 Targeted S42 Consultation & Information Update ..........................................................21 
4 
Conclusions ...............................................................................................................28 
4.1 Key Outcomes of Statutory Consultation .......................................................................28 
4.2 Post-DCO Submission ...................................................................................................28 
 
Figures 
Figure 2.1 – The Strands of Consultation ................................................................................................ 3 
Figure 3.1 – Local Community Non-Statutory Consultation – Master Themes of Respondent 
Comments  ............................................................................................................................................ 8 
Figure 3.2 – Key Stakeholders Non-Statutory Consultation – Master Themes of Respondent 
Comments  .......................................................................................................................................... 10 
Figure 3.3 – Local Community Statutory Consultation – Master Themes of Respondent Comments.. 16 
Figure 3.4 – Prescribed Consultees Statutory Consultation – Master Themes of Respondent 
Comments  .......................................................................................................................................... 19 
 
Tables 
Table 2.1 Project Milestones ................................................................................................................... 4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
xii 
This page is intentionally blank 
 
 
1 
 
1 
Introduction 
1.1 
The Project   
1.1.1 
Progress Power Limited (PPL) is seeking to construct, operate and maintain a 
gas-fired electricity generation project at the former Eye Airfield in Suffolk. The  
main elements of the proposed Project comprise: 
 
a thermal generating station (the "Power Generation Plant") on land 
at the former Eye Airfield located in Eye, Mid Suffolk;  
 
an underground gas pipeline ("Pipeline") with an Above Ground 
Installation (“AGI”) (together the "Gas Connection") to provide fuel to 
the Power Generation Plant;  
 
an underground cable circuit (the "Cable") connecting the Electrical 
Connection Compound and the Power Generation Plant; and 
 
a substation and sealing end compound (the "Electrical Connection 
Compound").  
1.1.2 
The Application also seeks consent for an access road to the Electrical 
Connection Compound (the "Access Road") and works enabling the Access 
Road to link into the A140 (the "A140 Junction").  
1.1.3 
Together, all of these elements in paragraphs 1.1.1 and 1.1.2 are termed the 
"Project". 
1.1.4 
The Electrical Connection Compound, Access Road and the A140 Junction 
constitute the associated development elements of the Project.  The Power 
Generation Plant, Gas Connection and Cable constitute the NSIP.  Under the 
Act, a DCO is required to construct, operate and maintain the Project. Under 
s37 of the Act this can only be granted if an application is made for a DCO to 
the SoS. PPL’s Application will be administered and examined by the Planning 
Inspectorate who will make a recommendation to the SoS prior to final 
determination. 
1.2 
This Non-Technical Summary  
1.2.1 
This NTS summarises the consultation activities that have been undertaken 
during the pre application phase of the Project, and summarises the key 
feedback which has influenced the proposals. More detailed information can 
be found in the full Consultation Report (Document Reference 5.1), from which 
this NTS is derived and which is also submitted as part of the Application.   
1.3 
Approach 
1.3.1 
PPL invested considerable time and resources during the pre application 
phase of the Project in order to encourage meaningful involvement by the 
local community, those interested in the Project Site, local authorities and 
 
2 
 
other prescribed consultees. Consequently, the Project has developed in a 
consultative and iterative manner, during successive stages of development. 
1.3.2 
The Project generated significant levels of interest and participation from a 
broad spectrum of consultees. PPL recognises that certain members of the 
local community expressed concerns about the Project, and its potential 
impacts. Nevertheless, both supporters and opponents of the Project have 
been able to contribute to its development. Significant design and Project 
decisions were either directly or indirectly influenced by consultation, and 
affected the way in which PPL undertook subsequent consultation activities.  
For example, consultation encouraged PPL to: 
 provide sufficient clarity to enable consultees to develop an 
informed view of the Project, despite future design uncertainties; 
 take into consideration and balance views on important Project 
design matters. Consultation ultimately influenced factors such as 
emission stack heights, Power Generation Plant and Electrical 
Connection Compound design and siting;  
 select a generating technology that would be more economical 
with water resource use; 
 commit to the deployment of appropriate lighting systems to 
reduce light pollution; 
 adopt Horizontal Direct Drilling (HDD) or similar methods to 
minimise disruption and environmental impacts, particularly on 
farming operations, ecology and transport; 
 choose an underground Cable, instead of one or more overhead 
lines supported by pylons to connect the Power Generation Plant 
to the national electricity transmission system; 
 develop and commit to the implementation of a suite of design 
principles formulated to minimise adverse impacts and maximise 
positive impacts; 
 identify, assess and then adopt the proposed dedicated A140 
Access option to serve the Electrical Connection Compound, to 
avoid routeing construction traffic through Yaxley; 
 develop appropriate mitigation to reduce the impacts of the 
Project on local communities and the environment, including 
integrated landscaping and biodiversity measures; and 
 commit to the development of measures for socio-economic and 
educational improvements, enhancement and/or improvement of 
connectivity and landscape and visual amenity. 
 
 
 
3 
 
2 
Guidance and Stages 
Statutory Requirements   
2.1.1 
The pre-application consultation process has been carried out in accordance 
with the requirements of primary and secondary legislation, statutory guidance 
and non-statutory advice notes, including: 
Primary and Secondary Legislation 
 The Planning Act 2008 (as amended); 
 Infrastructure Planning (Environmental Impact Assessment) 
Regulations 2009 (as amended) (the EIA Regulations); and, 
 The Infrastructure Planning (Applications: Prescribed Forms 
and Procedure) Regulations 2009 (as amended) (the APFP 
Regulations). 
Statutory Guidance and Non-Statutory Advice Notes 
 Department for Communities and Local Government, The 
Planning Act 2008, Guidance on the pre-application process 
(2013); 
 Planning Inspectorate, Advice Note 14: Compiling the 
consultation report (Version 2: April 2012); and, 
 Planning Inspectorate, Advice Note 16: The developer’s pre-
application consultation, publicity and notification duties 
(Version 1: April 2012) 
Statutory and Non-Statutory Consultation 
2.1.2 
Figure 2.1 illustrates the various strands of  consultation undertaken in relation 
to the project.  
Figure 2.1 – The Strands of Consultation 
 
 
4 
 
2.1.3 
The ‘EIA – Scoping’ strand refers to consultation under the EIA Regulations on 
the scope of the assessments which should form part of the EIA. EIA 
assesses the likely significant environmental effects of a proposed project 
during construction, operation and decommissioning. The findings of the EIA 
are presented in an ES. The ES for the Project is submitted with the 
Application (Document References 6.1 and 6.2).   
Consultation Programme 
2.1.4 
Table 2.1 presents a timeline of the key Project stages.  
Table 2.1 Project Milestones 
Stage 
Description 
Period 
Phase 1 Site Selection 
Stage 1 
UK Site Search 
2010-12 
Stage 2 
Identification of potential site at the former Eye Airfield 
2012 
Stage 3 
Initial Meeting with Mid Suffolk District Council (MSDC) 
2012 
Stage 4 
Land assembly negotiations commence 
2012 
Stage 5 
Power Generation Site appraisals commence 
Nov 2012 
Stage 6 
Connections appraisals commence 
Feb 2013 
Stage 7 
PPL formed 
Feb 2013 
Stage 8 
Power Generation Plant Site Option signed 
April 
2013 
Phase 2 EIA Scoping and Non-Statutory Consultation 
Stage 9 
Engagement with National Grid Electricity Transmission 
(NGET) 
April 
2013 
Stage 10 
Environmental Surveys 
May – 
Oct 2013 
Stage 11 
Gas Connection Feasibility Study concluded 
May – 
Aug 2013 
Stage 12 
Transmission Entry Connection (TEC) application 
May 
2013 
Stage 13 
Project Site definition 
May – 
Aug 2013 
Stage 14 
Power Generation Technology Options  
May 
2013 
Stage 15 
Power Generation Plant Stacks  
May 
2013 
Stage 16 
Non statutory consultation with local community/Scoping 
Briefing to MSDC/SCC/Environment Agency (EA)/Natural 
England (NE)/ English Heritage (EH) 
 
Non-statutory consultation on draft SoCC 
May – 
Septemb
er 2013 
Stage 17 
EIA Scoping Report submitted  
May 
2013 
 
5 
 
Stage 
Description 
Period 
Stage 18 
EIA Scoping Opinion issued 
June 
2013 
Phase 3 SoCC Statutory Consultation and Non-Statutory Consultation leading 
into Statutory Consultation 
Stage 19 
Statutory consultation on the Statement of Community 
Consultation (SoCC) 
July 2013 
Stage 20 
Project Design Development  
Sept-Oct 
2013 
Stage 21 
Statement of Community Consultation Published  
Sept 
2013 
Stage 22 
Statutory publicity 
 
Sept - 
Oct 2013 
Stage 23 
Revised Regulation 6 notification and Regulation 9 request 
Sept 
2013  – 
Jan 2014 
Stage 24 
Commencement of statutory s47/42 consultation 
Oct 2013 
Stage 25 
Statutory Consultation concludes 
Nov 2013 
Stage 26 
National Grid Electricity Transmission issue Transmission 
Entry Connection (TEC) offer  
Nov 2013 
Phase 4 Detailed Assessment & Consultation Review 
Stage 27 
Review of statutory consultation responses 
Nov – 
Dec 2013 
Stage 28 
Identification of substation access and substation location 
Nov/Dec 
2013 – 
Jan 2014 
Phase 5 Statutory s42 Consultation and Non-statutory Consultation 
Stage 29 
Targeted s42 consultation for affected landowners following 
slight amendment to project red line boundary 
Jan 2014 
Stage 30 
Non-statutory local community and stakeholder notification 
regarding access arrangements and sub-station location 
Jan 2014 
Stage 31 
Review of consultation responses 
 
March 
2014 
Stage 32 
DCO Application preparation 
March 
2014 
 
2.1.5 
The following section explains how PPL consulted during the pre application 
phase of the Project. 
 
 
6 
 
3 
Consultation Activities and Feedback 
3.1 
Previous Consultation 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.1.1 
During the preparation of the Mid Suffolk District Council Core Strategy 
(adopted 2008) consultation was undertaken by MSDC on the ‘Preferred 
Options’ (21st May – 2nd July 2007) and the ‘Submission Document’ (October 
2007 – November 2007). In 2011, MSDC undertook a focussed review of the 
Core Strategy to encompass evidence and issues that had arisen in preceding 
years.  Subsequently, Core Strategy Policy CS11 was replaced by Policy FC3, 
which allocates the former Eye Airfield as a priority site for the expansion and 
intensification of employment uses. 
3.1.2 
MSDC also consulted on the ‘Eye Airfield Development Framework’ (EADF). 
The EADF has no planning status but at the Environment Policy Panel in 
February 2013 elected members unanimously supported the EADF as a basis 
for the future development of the former Eye Airfield.  On 18th November 2013, 
a Position Statement, which supplements the EADF, was adopted as non-
standard Planning Guidance. The EADF was informed by various stages of 
consultation with local businesses, landowners, stakeholders and residents 
and anticipates energy related development at the former airfield. 
3.1.3 
In recent years, statutory and non-statutory consultees, including council 
members and the local community, have also been consulted on other 
development plan initiatives, as well as two wind turbine projects, both of 
which are now operational. 
3.2 
Non Statutory Consultation & EIA Scoping 
3.2.1 
PPL decided to consult at an early stage of the Project’s development, several 
months in advance of the commencement of the statutory consultation phase. 
Local exhibitions were held in May 2013, attended by approximately 150 
people. Press coverage at the time reflected feedback received by PPL. 
Reporting covered concerns about visual impacts, observations about energy 
policy, the future development of the former Eye Airfield and raised questions 
about the level and extent of potential local benefits. 
3.2.2 
PPL’s decision to engage early was subsequently validated. Specific 
concerns, including those expressed about the potential need for new 
overhead lines and pylons, ultimately influenced PPL’s decision to adopt an 
underground cable option. During this period, PPL was also asked to consider 
other design considerations in respect of stack heights, which PPL 
subsequently took into account as it developed the Project. Feedback also 
revealed a strong preference for the realisation of local benefits, primarily 
socio-economic in nature. These ideas would eventually be developed into a 
coherent suite of measures and commitments made in the Application. 
3.2.3 
During this period, PPL also identified key technical consultees with an interest 
in the Project, and through a process known as EIA ‘scoping’, was able to 
agree its primary methodological approaches to environmental assessment 
 
7 
 
with the SoS. Environmental survey and assessment work was subsequently 
undertaken during 2013 and early 2014.  
 Local Community  
3.2.4 
In May 2013, PPL undertook non-statutory consultation regarding the current 
proposals with key stakeholders (Stage 16, Table 2.1) and the local 
community (Stage 16, Table 2.1).  Non-statutory consultation was also 
undertaken with SCC, MSDC and the Planning Inspectorate on the Statement 
of Community Consultation (SoCC) (Stage 16, Table 2.1). 
3.2.5 
At the commencement of non-statutory consultation, several options were 
under consideration, including: 
 
Three potential generating technologies: Combine Cycle Gas Turbine 
(CCGT), Simple Cycle Gas Turbines (SCGT), and Reciprocating Gas 
Engines (RGE). 
 
Stack heights between 30m and 90m in height. 
 
Four possible gas connections points to connect into the National 
Transmission System (NTS) infrastructure. Five possible gas route 
corridor options which were considered suitable to connect into the four 
points. 
 
Electrical Connection Opportunity Area identified. Options for the 
Electrical Connection within this Opportunity Area comprised a new 400 
kV electricity export cable, either in the form of an underground cable or 
overhead line. 
3.2.6 
At this stage, the viability of Combined Heat and Power (CHP) options was 
also being considered. 
3.2.7 
To ensure the local community had ample opportunity to comment on the 
Project during its development, non-statutory consultation was regarded by 
PPL as having the same significance as statutory consultation within the 
overall pre-application consultation process. 
3.2.8 
The local community was consulted initially at a two day exhibition at Eye 
Community Centre in May 2013 (Stage 16, Table 2.1), in order to raise 
awareness and invite comments on the overall Project. The exhibitions were 
advertised by letters to local community representatives; adverts in the Diss 
Express, Bury Free Press, Eastern Daily Press and East Anglian Daily Times 
newspapers; posters in the local area; press releases in local and national 
media; and radio and local television coverage.  PPL also maintained a Project 
website with news and consultation materials.  
3.2.9 
At the exhibition, brochures were provided and information boards outlining 
details of the Project, the developers (PPL), the need for the development, the 
planning and consultation process, and the indicative programme of activities 
and key milestones. A total of 137 people attended the exhibition, of which 
73% returned a feedback form. The responses provided by the local 
 
8 
 
community were categorised into a number of themes, as shown in Figure 3.1 
below: 
Figure 3.1 – Local Community Non-Statutory Consultation – Master Themes of Respondent Comments 
 
3.2.10 
A summary of local community comments and PPL’s response is set out 
below: 
Impacts – Comments were made on the impacts of the proposal in 
respect of landscape and visual, traffic and access, environmental, 
construction, future development at Eye, community benefits, availability 
of gas, employment, and safety.  PPL stated that the assessment of 
environmental impacts at the time was ongoing; however, the EIA Scoping 
Report was available on the Project website and set out the approach to 
assessing environmental impacts.  PPL would also take into account these 
comments on impacts as it carried out its EIA, the preliminary results of 
which would be published in a Preliminary Environmental Impact Report 
(which ultimately formed part of PPL's statutory consultation).  
Information – Some respondents said that more information was needed 
on the Project.  PPL explained that the exhibitions were intended to 
introduce and enable discussions of aspects of the Project with the local 
community and that they were held at an early stage in the design 
development process when a number of options were still under 
consideration, therefore further design and environmental assessment 
work was to be completed. PPL sought to balance the availability of 
information and a desire to raise awareness and knowledge and gain local 
feedback on the proposals. As PPL developed its consultation plan for 
statutory consultation, PPL took into account comments on the information 
that people wanted to know about in future consultation.   
 
9 
 
Design – Comments were made by respondents on the underground 
versus overhead lines, the scale of development and the stack height. 
PPL stated that as the exhibition was held early in the design process, 
further design work was still to be completed. These comments would go 
on to influence PPL's decision on key aspects of the Project prior to 
statutory consultation.  
Position on the Project – PPL introduced and discussed the Project with 
the local community as part of the proactive approach to consultation. Best 
available information was provided to allow informed decisions to be 
made. A number of respondents were opposed to local development in 
general and two were opposed to the Project itself. Other respondents 
were open to/supportive of the Project.  
Location and site selection – Five comments were made opposing the 
location and siting of the Project, referring to the locality of Eye, the rural 
location, and one to their house. Two comments were also received in 
support of the location and siting and another respondent commented on 
the unattractive appearance of the former Eye Airfield at present. PPL 
explained why it considered the location suitable, highlighting the 
locational advantages of the site and MSDC’s support for energy-related 
use on part of the former Eye Airfield.  
Need and suitability – Comments were made both opposing and 
supporting the suitability of gas as an energy source, as well as on the 
value of renewable energy sources and the need for the development. 
PPL highlighted the growing acknowledgement within Government policy 
and industry that established renewable technologies alone cannot 
provide the security of support that consumers require. 
Key Stakeholders  
3.2.11 
PPL consulted local community representations and stakeholders about the 
Project at a number of meetings (Stage 16, Table 2.1). Consultees included 
MSDC and SCC officers and councillors, the EA, English Heritage, Eye Town 
Council.  PPL also met with the Planning Inspectorate during this period to 
keep them updated on the Project's progress and timeline. The responses of 
key stakeholders were categorised into a number of themes, as shown in 
Figure 3.2 below: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10 
 
Figure 3.2 – Key Stakeholders Non-Statutory Consultation – Master Themes of Respondent Comments 
 
3.2.12 A summary of Key Stakeholder comments and PPL’s responses are set out 
below: 
Impacts – Advice and information was provided by MSDC, SCC, the EA, 
Eye Town Council and Suffolk Association of Local Council’s regarding 
environmental and cumulative impacts. PPL subsequently considered 
these comments within the EIA and in the preparation of the Preliminary 
Environmental Information Report (PEIR), used for statutory consultation 
purposes, as well as the ES (Document References 6.1 and 6.2).   
Consenting Process – the Planning Inspectorate provided advice (which 
was made publically available) regarding the DCO process, SCC queried 
what other permits would be required and Dr Dan Poulter MP queried the 
likely timescales for DCO development. PPL followed the advice received 
from consultees in the preparation of the DCO and responded to queries 
by explaining the DCO process, timescales and process of engagement.  
Consultation – The Planning Inspectorate advised on best practice for 
the consultation process and advised PPL to share draft documents with 
the local authorities. Dr Dan Poulter MP and Eye Town Council queried 
local consultation responses, and David Ruffley MP for Bury St Edmunds 
was suggested as an additional consultee.  SCC and the EA enquired 
about what level of detail would be provided in the PEIR and how it would 
respond to the Scoping Report given the timescales proposed (this 
timescale is a statutory timescale, in which the SoS asks certain 
stakeholders for their views on what an ES should contain.  See further 
below). PPL sought to outline the consultation approach, make 
consultation material accessible, and followed relevant legislation and 
guidance in the carrying out of both statutory and non-statutory 
consultation. In respect of the Scoping Report, PPL would maintain 
 
11 
 
dialogue with the key stakeholders so that the Scoping Report and the 
PEIR would be informed by their comments before publication.  PPL 
highlighted that through engagement with key stakeholders, PPL sought to 
ensure that any Project issues or local information was known prior to the 
receipt of the Scoping Report and PEIR. The PEIR included PPL 
responses to comments received via the Scoping Opinion.    
Design – Comments were made in respect of the electrical connection, 
emission stacks, landscaping, layout and form, movement, water 
resources, safety and gas storage.  PPL responded to queries on the 
height of the stacks.  In response to comments made regarding the layout 
and form of the Project, PPL stated that the Project is aligned with the 
priorities of MSDC’s EADF. PPL also advised that the EIA would include 
an assessment of the traffic and access impacts arising from the Project.  
In response to queries raised by SCC and the EA regarding water 
resources, PPL advised that it would take account of scarcity in its Water 
Quality and Resources Assessment.   It was noted by PPL that gas would 
not be stored on the Project Site.   
Opportunities and Benefits – Queries were raised by multiple consultees 
about how community benefits could be realised and the impact that 
employment opportunities of the Project would have on accommodation 
and transport.  PPL advised that the Project would provide job 
opportunities for skilled and semi-skilled workers at the construction 
phase.  During operation, a number of full time positions would be created 
with others supported in the local community in facility management and 
other lines of work.   
Developer and Delivery – Consultees sought clarification on site 
selection process, the life of the plant and its decommissioning, and who 
would be responsible for the connection between the Project and existing 
infrastructure.  PPL stated that an extensive site selection process had 
preceded the identification of the former Eye Airfield, over several years. 
PPL also highlighted the advantages of the site and MSDC’s support for 
energy-related use on part of the former Eye Airfield. PPL confirmed that 
NGC would own and operate any substation/SEC elements of the Project, 
PPL would retain control of the Cable and the Pipeline. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12 
 
 
3.2.13 This first stage of non-statutory consultation influenced the Project in three 
important respects. 
 
 It enabled PPL to identify and understand the key interests of the 
local community and local stakeholders. This would subsequently 
inform the development of the SoCC and the related statutory 
consultation activities. 
 It served to encourage PPL to subsequently disregard overhead line 
electrical connection options, based upon consistent and vocal local 
opposition. Concerns were primarily founded on anticipated visual 
and landscape impacts. 
 Consultation revealed a strong preference for the realisation of 
‘local’ benefits, primarily socio-economic in nature. These ideas 
would eventually be developed further into coherent measures 
capable of being delivered, and forming part of the Application and a 
suite of proposed heads of terms for a Section 106 legal Agreement. 
 
3.3 
EIA Scoping 
3.3.1 
In accordance with EIA Regulations, an EIA Scoping Report was submitted on 
7th May 2013 to the Planning Inspectorate, who acts on behalf of the SoS 
(Stage 17, Table 2.1). The purpose of the submission was to request a view 
on the scope and content of the EIA via a ‘Scoping Opinion’ and confirm an 
EIA was to be undertaken as part of the Application.  
3.3.2 
The EIA Scoping Report provided an introduction to the Project, including its 
need and benefits, the developer, the consenting regime, and the intended 
scope and structure of the ES (which presents the findings of the EIA). The 
Report detailed the options under consideration at the time, which included: 
potential generating technologies, stack heights, consideration of Combined 
Heat and Power (CHP), gas connection routes and points, and potential 
electrical connection routes.  
3.3.3 
The EIA Scoping consultation was undertaken with statutory consultees in 
parallel to the non-statutory consultation, summarised above. A Scoping 
Opinion was received from the Planning Inspectorate on 26th June 2013.  
3.3.4 
Under Regulation 6 of the EIA Regulations, on 10th September 2013, PPL 
confirmed to the SoS that the Application would include the Power Generation 
Plant, Gas Connection, Cable and the Electrical Connection Compound 
(sealing end compound (SEC) and a substation). 
 
 
13 
 
3.3.5 
The EIA Scoping phase informed the development of the Project in the 
following ways:  
 
 PPL was able to identify key technical consultees with a potential 
interest in the Project. 
 PPL was able to establish its primary methodological approaches to 
environmental assessment. 
 PPL was able to confirm that transboundary effects were unlikely. 
 
 
3.4 
Statement of Community Consultation (SoCC) 
3.4.1 
S47 of the Act requires applicants to consult with the local community and 
outline the consultation strategy in a SoCC.  
3.4.2 
PPL’s early non statutory engagement informed the development of the 
Project’s SoCC. The draft SoCC and related Consultation Plan, set out how 
PPL would consult with the local community under s37 of the Act. The 
documents included key aspects of the approach, including: early proactive 
consultation, the definition of consultation areas, exhibitions at convenient 
times and locations, reaching out to ‘hard to reach’ groups, and publicity of the 
Project and exhibitions. The draft documents were issued to the Planning 
Inspectorate, MSDC and SCC in July 2013 for informal feedback, before PPL 
issued the SoCC to MSDC formally under s47 of the Act.  
3.4.3 
Informed by both non statutory and statutory consultation, PPL was able to 
agree the content and objectives of the SoCC with both MSDC and SCC. As 
the relevant local authorities, MSDC and SCC’s knowledge and contribution 
was invaluable: It enabled PPL to develop a proportionate and targeted 
approach to consultation, informed by detailed local knowledge. 
3.4.4 
The SoCC Notice was published in local newspapers from Thursday 12th 
September 2013. It advised the public of PPL’s planned statutory consultation 
activities. The SoCC development process enabled PPL to: 
 
 
 
Agree a proportionate and appropriate approach to consultation 
with the relevant local authorities, MSDC and SCC, informed by 
a non statutory, then statutory consultation on the SoCC. 
 
Identify a variety of measures to facilitate engagement with the 
local community, including hard to reach groups. 
 
 
14 
 
3.5 
Sections 42, 47 and 48 Statutory Consultation and Publicity 
3.5.1 
For clarity and to avoid confusion, PPL took the approach of conducting a 
single phase of statutory consultation under s42, s47 and s48. Published in 
September 2013, the SoCC notice confirmed where and when the SoCC 
could be inspected by members of the public. Letters were sent to s42 
consultees directly. Consultation notices were published in national and local 
newspapers under s48 of the PA 2008.  
3.5.2 
PPL’s statutory phase of consultation commenced on 3rd October 2013 and 
ended on the 7th November 2013, a period of 35 days. PPL sought to provide 
sufficient clarity to enable consultees to develop an informed view of the 
Project. In order to do so, PPL introduced the key elements of the Project, 
supported by significant quantities of information including a preliminary 
environmental information report (PEIR), and non-technical summary (PEIR 
NTS). PPL facilitated a range of activities, briefings and events – widely 
publicised in accordance with the SoCC. PPL explained what decisions had 
been made to date, and sought feedback on specific Electrical Connection 
and Gas Connection and Power Generation Plant options, whilst inviting 
feedback on the PEIR. 
3.5.3 
The Project had developed during the period following non-statutory 
consultation and several key decisions had been made at the commencement 
of statutory consultation. These were confirmed in the consultation material  
and included: 
 Power Generation Plant operating as a flexible plant, rather than base 
load; 
 Selection of Simple Cycle Gas Turbine (SCGT), operating as a ‘peaking 
plant’ (maximum 1500 hours per year); 
 Stack height to be between 20-30m; 
 CHP provision not viable, therefore not part of the scheme; and 
 Two preferred gas connection route corridors options to connect into 
the National Transmission System (NTS) infrastructure. 
3.5.4 
In order to avoid unwanted visual impacts, and to respond directly to 
representations made during the non statutory consultation phase, PPL 
decided to assess potential Electrical Connection Compound sites within a 
revised ‘opportunity area’ (comprising a smaller area of land than an earlier 
version of the Opportunity Area presented within the Scoping Report) based 
on the development of an underground cable, rather than an overhead line 
solution.  
3.5.5 
PPL subsequently identified two potential locations where the Electrical 
Connection Compound could be sited. The PEIR confirmed that in respect of 
Electrical Connection options, the suitability of sites within the opportunity area 
was considered in light of potential impacts on noise, landscape and visual 
 
15 
 
impact, ecology, water and flood risk, geology and agriculture, and impacts on 
cultural heritage assets and archaeology.   
3.5.6 
Secondly, based on the conditional offer from NGET for a connection to the 
NETS, PPL confirmed that the Electrical Connection Compound needed to be 
sited adjacent to the NETS. 
3.5.7 
In view of the above, PPL presented the following Electrical Connection 
options for statutory consultation purposes in the PEIR: 
 
Electrical Connection Option 1: Comprising the Electrical Connection  
Compound located on agricultural land to the north of The Leys, off Leys 
Lane between The Leys and Goswold Hall, together with a buried 
underground electrical Cable to the Power Generation Plant; and  
 
Electrical Connection Option 2: Comprising the Electrical Connection  
Compound located on agricultural land to the south of ‘The Leys’, north 
of Mellis Road, together with an buried underground electrical Cable to 
the Power Generation Plant. 
3.5.8 
 In accordance with s48 of the Act, notices providing details of the statutory 
consultation events were placed in print media during September 2013.  In 
accordance with Regulation 11 of the EIA Regulations, a copy of the s48 
notice was issued to the consultation bodies and to those persons notified to 
PPL in accordance with Regulation 9 of the EIA Regulations as at September 
2013. PPL did not receive any consultation responses that identified 
themselves as responding to the s48 publicity approach. 
3.5.9 
 Exhibitions were held at six venues across seven dates (a two-day exhibition 
was held at Eye). The PEIR NTS (which set out the preliminary findings of 
the EIA at the time), was made available at the same locations as the SoCC, 
as well as the main PEIR. The Project and exhibitions were publicised via a 
number of different methods including leaflet distribution, local newspaper 
adverts, posters and media coverage. 
3.5.10  PPL received requests from parish councillors and the local community 
during the first two exhibitions at Hoxne and Mellis to hold an additional 
exhibition in Yaxley.  The SoCC acknowledged the potential need for 
additional consultation activities, and thus PPL agreed to hold an additional 
event at Yaxley Village Hall on Monday 21st October 2013.  The additional 
exhibition was advertised via hand delivered letters, a press release, and a 
news bulletin on the PPL website. It was extremely well attended. 
3.5.11  PPL 
contacted 
a 
range 
of 
local 
stakeholders, 
including 
elected 
representatives, local community, business and special interest groups 
inviting them to express their views on the Project.  In all, 332 people 
attended the exhibitions – the majority of which attended the Yaxley and 
Mellis events. Feedback forms were provided, with questions seeking 
feedback regarding the overall Project, the PEIR and the exhibition.  
 
16 
 
3.5.12  PPL received a number of reports that some people did not receive leaflets 
containing information about the Project and consultation process. PPL 
received independent confirmation that 17,000 leaflets were delivered, at a 
‘penetration rate’ of 81%. For a variety of reasons, the SoCC did not 
guarantee that everyone would receive, or indeed read the leaflet. 
Nevertheless, PPL’s other complementary activities ensured that there were 
high levels of participation in the process, evidenced by the significant 
number of responses and high levels of attendance at the exhibitions. SCC 
agreed that PPL had undertaken its leafleting distribution activities in 
accordance with the SoCC.  
3.5.13  In response to the questions posed, a number of key themes were raised, as 
shown in Figure 3.3 below. 
Figure 3.3 – Local Community Statutory Consultation – Master Themes of Respondent Comments 
 
Section 47 Consultee Feedback 
3.5.14  A summary of local community comments and PPL’s response is set out 
below: 
Environmental Impacts – Concerns were raised regarding the impact of 
the development of various aspects, including traffic, transport and 
access, landscape and visual, noise and vibration, air quality, cultural 
heritage and archaeology, ecology, landscaping and screening. PPL took 
these comments into account, which informed the final assessments in the 
ES (Document number 6.1) as well as refinements in the Project (such as 
the access arrangements to the Electrical Connection Compound).  
Consultation Process – Several respondents expressed concern over 
the consultation process and felt it to be inadequate in the information and 
publicity of the consultation provided. However, PPL responded by 
highlighting that they were committed to undertaking and delivering 
 
17 
 
consultation with the local community as set out in the SoCC.  The 
approach to consultation, including publicity, was agreed with MSDC and 
SCC and the number of attendees at the events as well as the responses 
received demonstrated that PPL's publicity methods had penetrated the 
local community.   
Electrical Connection Compound – PPL stated that the selection of the 
location for the Electrical Connection Compound was an iterative process 
informed by consultation, commercial, environmental and technical 
considerations. An Electrical Connection Siting Report detailing the 
process has been prepared and accompanies the Application (Document 
Reference 10.3).  
EIA methodology – In response to queries on the EIA methodology, PPL 
clarified that during the statutory s47 consultation process the preliminary 
findings of the EIA were presented in the PEIR and PEIR NTS, as such 
these were not the final results of the EIA. The final EIA findings are 
presented in the ES that accompanies the Application (Document 
References 6.1 and 6.2). PPL also stated that the scope of the EIA had 
been agreed with statutory consultees via the EIA Scoping process.  
Connection route (Gas/Electric) – PPL responded to queries and 
concerns on the connection routes by highlighting that a number of 
connection options had been considered. The comments received, 
alongside s42 responses, environmental and technical studies, informed 
the selection of the final design within the Application. An Electrical 
Connection Siting Report accompanies the Application which sets out the 
process that led to the identification of the technology and location and the 
decision to underground the Cable (Document Reference 10.3).  
Opportunities and benefits – In response to queries on opportunities 
and benefits the Project would provide, PPL highlighted that an EIA has 
been undertaken which includes a socio-economic assessment, the 
findings of which are presented in the ES. PPL also reiterated the number 
of jobs the Project would provide. PPL stated that it would continue to 
consult with MSDC and SCC on ways to bring wider social and 
environmental benefits to the surrounding area.   
Site Selection – PPL emphasised the extensive site selection process it 
had gone through, investigating around 600 sites in total over the past 
three years, and reiterated the advantages of the Project Site. PPL also 
highlight MSDC’s position with regard to future development of the former 
Eye Airfield and the potential for an Energy Park. PPL also sought to 
ensure that the site layout and positioning of the infrastructure removes or 
minimises any potential impacts, and the ES presents the findings of the 
EIA which assesses the likely significant environmental impacts of the 
Project.  
Need for project – Comments were received questioning the need for a 
gas power station as opposed to renewable energy sources, and also the 
national need for a gas fired power stations. PPL highlighted the growing 
 
18 
 
acknowledgment within Government Policy and industry that established 
renewable technologies cannot provide the security of supply that 
consumers require. PPL also highlighted that gas is the most appropriate 
energy source due to delays to nuclear and the closure of coal fired plant.  
Construction – The EIA considers construction, operational and 
decommissioning phase effects and during the statutory s47 consultation 
process the preliminary findings of the EIA were presented in the PEIR 
and PEIR NTS. The PEIR and PEIR NTS also described the further 
studies and assessments to be undertaken in support of the EIA. The final 
EIA findings are presented in the ES that accompanies the Application, 
including an assessment of traffic and access impacts arising from the 
Project.  
Design and appearance – Comments were received raising concern 
about the potential visual impact of the Project. The Design and Access 
Statement (DAS) (Document Reference 10.2) sets out the rationale and 
final design of the Project. PPL also highlighted that it had sought 
feedback from MSDC and SCC officers throughout the Project evolution to 
ensure that the final scheme is sensitive to the site and surrounds. In 
response to comments, PPL has also prepared an outline Landscape 
Strategy, which is part of the  Application.  
Technology selection – In response to comments on technology, PPL 
emphasised the growing acknowledgement within Government Policy and 
industry that established renewable technologies cannot provide the 
security of supply that consumers require. PPL also clarified that the plant 
would operate as a ‘peaking plant’ operating for a maximum of 1500 hours 
per year. The Project would obtain gas from the National Transmission 
System, which may be derived from a variety of sources. PPL also 
emphasised the evolution of the Project in respect of stack heights. PPL 
clarified that during the non-statutory phase the viability of CHP had not 
been established, but by the statutory stage it had been established that 
CHP was not viable for the Project. A report outlining the viability of CHP 
has been prepared and accompanies the Application (Document 6.2 
Appendix 5.A). 
DCO Process – PPL clarified that throughout the consultation process 
PPL has explained how consultees can engage in the DCO process. In 
addition, PPL facilitated the organisation of a PINS Outreach event, held 
on 22nd January 2014. During this event, the Planning Inspectorate gave a 
presentation to representatives of parish councils, MSDC officers and an 
SCC councillor, providing an overview of the DCO process and explaining 
how parties can engage with the process.  
S42 Consultee Feedback  
3.5.15 Respondent’s comments to s42 statutory consultation were focused on a 
number of key themes, as shown in Figure 3.4 below. 
 
 
19 
 
Figure 3.4 – Prescribed Consultees Statutory Consultation – Master Themes of Respondent Comments 
 
3.5.16 
A summary of prescribed consultee comments and PPL’s response is set 
out below:   
Consultation Process – In response to requests for more information on 
the proposals and further engagement going forward, PPL held a Project 
update session with the SCC, MSDC and the parish councils in early 2014. 
PPL also highlighted that it is committed to continued engagement with the 
local community and key stakeholders following submission of the 
Application, as well as throughout the construction, operational and 
decommissioning phases should a DCO be granted. PPL also emphasised 
that the number of exhibitions and locations were agreed in the SoCC with 
MSDC and SCC.  
Standard Guidance – A number of consultees highlighted the availability of 
standard guidance on a number of matters. PPL noted the standing advice 
provided and has given it due regard where appropriate in formulating the 
Project for the Application.   
Electrical Connection Compound – In response to a request for more 
information regarding the chosen location of the substation element of the 
Electrical Connection Compound, PPL provided an information update to 
the local community and other consultees in February 2014 about the 
Electrical Connection Compound and Access Road. It provided information 
about the selected location and the decision making process behind its 
selection.  
Connection Route (Gas/Electric) – SCC required more information 
regarding the Electrical Connection and Gas Connection Route Corridor 
and other route options. PPL responded by providing an information update 
to SCC, MSDC, the local community and other consultees in February 2014 
about the Electrical Connection Compound and Access Road. PPL has also 
 
20 
 
met with MSDC and SCC officers to explain the decisions around the 
Electrical Connection and Gas Connection.  PPL also clarified the selection 
process behind the Electrical Connection. PPL will continue to communicate 
and engage with stakeholders as the Project progresses to ensure that 
working practices and operational requirements are considered at an 
appropriate time in the process. In response to comments about the effect 
the Project would have on the landscape, PPL stated that an outline 
Landscape Strategy has been prepared in response to consultation 
comments and would be submitted with the Application.  
Community Benefit – PPL highlighted that an EIA has been undertaken 
which includes a socio-economic assessment, the findings of which are 
presented in the ES.  PPL also clarified that it will continue to consult MSDC 
and SCC on ways to bring wider social and environmental benefits to Eye 
and the surrounding area. In this respect, PPL has held discussions with 
MSDC and SCC over a potential Section 106 legal agreement (Document 
10.4).  
Construction – In response to comments from National Grid that 
construction works should not compromise tower foundations or their 
assets, PPL will continue to communicate with stakeholders as the Project 
progresses to ensure that working practices and operational requirements 
are considered at the appropriate time in the process.  PPL is working to 
agree a Statement of Common Ground with National Grid, which will result 
in Protective Provisions being attached to the DCO.  
DCO Process – PPL confirmed that a Construction Environmental 
Management Plan (CEMP) has been prepared taking into account 
consultation comments to manage the effects during construction and an 
outline CEMP will accompany the Application (the intent being that the DCO 
will secure the production of a full CEMP based o the outline CEMP). PPL 
also confirmed to consultees that the EIA considers construction, 
operational and decommissioning phase effects (the latter is similar to 
construction in most instances).  
Technology selection – comments were made on the stack and overhead 
lines, water use and gas turbines. During the development of the Project, a 
number of connection options have been considered and that the selection 
of the electrical connection for the Project has been an iterative process 
informed by technical considerations as well as consultation responses. 
Consultation has informed  the selection of the technology for the Project as 
Simple Cycle Gas Turbine (SCGT), operating as a ‘peaking plant’ 
(maximum 1500 hours per year).  
Permits and consents – Energy Power Resource Limited, the EA, the 
Health and Safety Executive, the Forestry Commission and SCC 
commented on the requirement of a number of permits and consents. PPL 
noted the requirements and has given it due regard where it applies at this 
stage of the process.  
 
21 
 
Need for project – Comments related to the need for a secure, affordable 
and diverse energy supply to meet the nation’s energy demand. Comments 
were made by SCC and MSDC. PPL noted these comments and 
highlighted the growing acknowledgment within Government policy and 
industry that established renewable technologies cannot provide the 
security of supply that consumers require. They also highlight that delays in 
nuclear development and coal fired power station closures mean that gas is 
the most appropriate energy source.  
Design – The EA commented on the Best Available Technology to be used. 
SCC and MSDC commented on the need for good design to be applied to 
all elements of the Project. In response to these comments, the ES explores 
the Best Available Technology requirements and emissions standards of 
the Project and the suitability for a future Environmental Permit.  
Employment Opportunities – The Project would bring a range of benefits 
to the area during both the construction and operational phases, including 
employment opportunities which have been assessed in the socio-
economic assessment of the EIA, which is presented in the ES (Document 
Reference 6.1). PPL will continue to consult MSDC and SCC on ways to 
bring wider social and environmental benefits to the surrounding area.  
3.5.17 
The statutory phase of consultation exercise enabled PPL to: 
 
 
 
Seek the views of the community, prescribed persons, 
local authorities and persons with land interests; 
 
Seek feedback on its commitment to underground the 
Electrical Connection; 
 
Seek feedback on the specific proposals for the Gas 
Connection and Electrical Connection and Power 
Generation Plant options; 
 
Invite comments on the findings of the preliminary 
environmental studies. 
 
3.6 
Targeted S42 Consultation & Information Update  
3.6.1 
 In response to feedback from the local community during the statutory 
consultation, and in order to reduce potential disturbance to Yaxley and Mellis, 
PPL confirmed its intention to develop a new access to the A140. This resulted 
in a minor modification of the redline boundary. Consequently,  between the 
6th February and 6th March 2014 PPL undertook a targeted 28 day period of 
statutory consultation of those s42 consultees with land interests affected by 
the boundary change.  
 
22 
 
3.6.2 
At the same time, PPL produced and distributed an Information Update. The 
purpose of the update was to share details with the local community about the 
proposed Access Road, the A140 Junction and location arrangements for the 
Electricity Connection Compound. The Information Update was produced as a 
consequence of PPL’s review of responses received during the Project’s 
period of statutory consultation, and continued technical and environmental 
studies. PPL’s decision to progress the southern Electrical Connection 
Compound (Option 2) was not a change in the Project. However, given the 
levels of interest expressed during the statutory consultation phase, it was 
considered courteous to issue confirmation of PPL’s decision to the 
community, with reasons why it had selected its preferred option. 
3.6.3 
The Information Update took the form of a published document detailing the 
rationale behind the proposed A140 Access and the selection of the Electrical 
Connection Compound location. A letter was posted to Lord Framlingham (a 
life peer in the House of Lords, formerly an MP for Central Suffolk and North 
Ipswich), Dan Poulter MP, David Ruffley MP and Richard Bacon MP. Email 
notifications were also provided to all Parish Councils within the CCZ, as well 
as local awareness group Common Concern and the Suffolk Preservation 
Society. MSDC Officers and SCC Councillors also received the email 
notification. Letters were also sent to all s42a and s42b consultees for 
information.  
3.6.4 
Letters were hand delivered to households in Mellis, Yaxley, Thrandeston and 
parts of Eye, and posters were displayed, notifying residents of the Information 
Update.  Information was made available to view in five local libraries. During 
the Information Update period, PPL hosted ‘MP style’ drop-in sessions in 
Mellis, Yaxley and Eye on 25th February 2014, which were attended by over 
70 people. 
3.6.5 
A summary of local community comments and PPL’s response is set out 
below: 
Community Benefit – A number of comments were made querying the 
benefit or compensation that the community would receive from the Project.  
Specific comments were made suggesting a historic building fund or 
environmental fund be set up.  PPL advised that it is currently in discussions 
with MSDC and SCC over a Section 106 Agreement, which would include 
measures for socio-economic and educational improvements, enhancing 
connectivity between the proposed development and Eye, and improving 
landscape and visual amenity. 
Connection Route – Some respondents from the local community suggested 
overhead electrical lines and some suggested underground cables.  One 
respondent queried which connection corridor had been selected.  PPL stated 
that that it has considered a number of connection options, and determined 
that the proposed Electrical Connection would be via an underground cable 
from the Power Generation Plant to an Electrical Connection Compound 
adjacent to the existing NETS 400 kV overhead lines to the west of the A140.  
Gas Route Corridor Option 2 has been selected as Option 1 is technically 
 
23 
 
unachievable because of its close proximity to the National Grid Gas 
Compression System. 
Construction – Comments were made in respect of the impact of construction 
on safety and emergencies, and the impact of traffic, dirt and noise.  PPL 
noted that it has had regard to these comments when developing a draft 
CEMP (Document 6.2 Appendix 4.A) and Construction Traffic Management 
Plan (Document 6.2 Appendix 12.D). These documents ensure that 
construction activities are undertaken in accordance with good practice and 
safety guidelines. 
Consultation Process – The majority of comments made related to 
consultation materials and that PPL has failed to disclose sufficient detail of 
the Project to enable consultees to reach an informed decision about 
important elements of the Project.  PPL advised of the stages of the 
consultation process undertaken and the materials published, which have 
included leaflets to advertise the consultation and consultation events where 
people could review exhibition boards and hard copies of the PEIR and PEIR 
NTS. Some comments stated that the consultation process has been 
inadequate and of poor quality.  PPL stated that it has undertaken a wide 
range of activities to carry out both statutory and non-statutory consultation in 
the local community.  Consultation has also been carried out in accordance 
with PPL's SoCC, which was agreed with MSDC and SCC. 
DCO Process – Some comments opposed the Project and its location, whilst 
some stated that the proposed substation and new Access Road would 
encourage further development in this area.  PPL advised that, under the EIA 
Regulations, an applicant has to outline the main alternatives studied, and 
where an application involves compulsory purchase, the application needs to 
show that there are no reasonable alternatives to the scheme being put 
forward. 
Design – A number of comments objected to the removal of access to the 
fishing pond and allotments at the end of Old Norwich Road.  Respondents 
suggested that a barrier on the Access Road set back from the A140 would be 
a preferred option.  PPL stated that the restriction of Old Norwich Road would 
be a temporary measure that would be required during the construction period 
only, and following construction, access via Old Norwich Road would be 
restored.  Some comments also stated that the three way junction with ghost 
island is unsafe and would create an accident black spot – PPL advised that 
the Transport Assessment found that the Project would have no significant 
impact on the A140. 5 comments were made on the inadequacy of 
landscaping and screening.  PPL responded that a draft Landscape Mitigation 
Strategy (Document 10.6) and Outline Landscaping Plans (Document 2.9) 
have been prepared as a result of consultation and would be submitted with 
the Application and a requirement of the DCO would require PPL to agree a 
landscaping plan with the local authority prior to construction.  Some queries 
were raised regarding the minimum achievable stack heights.  PPL responded 
that a minimum stack height of 25m is required for the Power Generation Plant 
in order to achieve adequate dispersion rates of pollutants and meet UK air 
quality objectives. 
 
24 
 
EIA Methodology – A number of comments were made relating to the 
methodology used within the landscape and visual chapter of the EIA.  PPL 
stated that a total of 26 viewpoints have been agreed in consultation with 
SCC, and the potential impacts on Conservation Areas have been assessed 
within the ES (Document Number 6.1).   
Employment Opportunities – The majority of comments made stated that 
employment would not come from the local area as highly skilled individuals 
are required during construction and operation so no local benefit will be seen.  
As a result of consultation responses, PPL is in discussions with   MSDC and 
SCC over a Section 106 Agreement to include proposals for socio-economic 
and educational improvements, such as delivering a local service provider 
engagement scheme to MSDC to ensure that opportunities for local 
organisations to bid for contracts are advertised locally. 
Environmental Impacts – Comments were made in respect of the following 
sub-themes: air quality; cultural, heritage and archaeology; cumulative 
impacts; ecology; residential amenity; health; landscape and visual; landscape 
and screening; lighting; noise and vibration; property prices; public rights of 
way; safety and emergencies; socio-economics; traffic, transport and access; 
and water resources. 
 Air Quality – Some comments raised concerns regarding pollution 
levels.  PPL has taken these comments into account and the ES has 
identified no significant operational impacts at the minimum stack 
height of 25m. 
 Cultural, Heritage and Archaeology – The majority of comments 
advised that there are a number of heritage assets within the 
consultation area which should not be degraded.  PPL has taken 
these comments into account and the ES has determined that there 
would be slight to moderate / effects on the setting of Historic Assets 
within the Study Areas resulting from the construction or operation of 
the Project. 
 Cumulative Impacts – Some consultees commented that there would 
be a significant cumulative impacts as a result of the Project.  PPL has 
taken these comments into account and the ES considers cumulative 
impacts of the Project, including the impact of the Eye Chicken Litter 
Plant, four wind turbines and existing 400 kV overhead lines west of 
the A140. 
 Ecology – Comments received related to the sighting of red kites and 
buzzards and the impacts on trees.  PPL has taken these comments 
into account and the ES concludes that no significant effects on 
protected species or habitats are anticipated.   
 Residential Amenity – Two comments queried the impact of noise and 
light pollution on residential amenity.  PPL has taken these comments 
into account and the ES concludes that no significant impacts are 
 
25 
 
anticipated on any residential properties during construction or 
operational phases of the development. 
 Health – The majority of comments raised concerns regarding the 
proximity to electrical infrastructure.  PPL has taken these comments 
into account and Appendix 15.A of the ES (Document Number 6.1) 
presents an Electro-Magnetic Field (EMF) study for the Project, which 
has been carried out to assess the potential impact of EMFs 
associated with the construction of the Project, specifically the 
Electrical Connection Compound and Cable. The impact assessment 
has found that the EMF field strength for the Project would be the 
same as that which is already present associated with the existing 
400kV Norwich Main to Bramford overhead line. 
 Landscape and Visual – The majority of comments refer to the visual 
impact of both the Electrical Connection Compound site and the 
Power Generation Plant, in particular the stacks of the plant that are 
located on higher ground.  PPL has taken these comments into 
account and the ES has determined that there would be slight to 
moderate effects on the setting of Historic Assets within the Study 
Areas resulting from the construction or operation of the Project.  
Further, in response to comments, PPL’s proposed mitigation in the 
form of landscaping would reduce the significance of visual impacts 
over time.   
 Landscape and screening – Comments suggested that the time it 
takes for trees to grow has not been considered in the screening 
mitigation.  In response to these comments, PPL has ensured that the 
draft Landscape Strategy considers landscape screening mitigation 
measures, and their effectiveness over time. 
 Lighting – Comments stated that there will be an impact from light 
pollution and that this should be mitigated.  In response to these 
comments, PPL has ensured that the Outline Lighting Layout 
(Document 2.10) has been prepared in order to minimise the use of 
artificial lighting during constructing and operation. 
 Noise and vibration – Some respondents wanted to know the noise 
levels of the Power Generation Plant and Electrical Connection 
Compound.  PPL has taken these comments into account and the ES 
(Document Number 6.1) sets out the predicted noise impacts of the 
Power Generation Plant and the Electrical Connection Compound.  
The ES concludes that there would be no significant noise output from 
the Electrical Connection Compound. 
 Property prices – Some comments refer to the potential impact of the 
Project on their properties price.  PPL has taken these comments into 
account and the assessments carried out by PPL have included 
impacts on residential amenity.  
 
 
26 
 
 
 
 Public rights of way – Two comments state that the ancient green 
lane is crossed by the proposals and would need to be diverted.  PPL 
has taken these comments into account and the adoption of the 
southern Electrical Connection Compound avoids the need to 
adversely affect the green lane, access to it would be maintained 
during construction and a diversion would not be required. 
 Socio-economics – Numerous questions were raised in relation to the 
effects on business and tourism.  PPL has taken these comments into 
account and the ES (Document Number 6.1) considers the socio-
economic impacts of the Project, including the anticipated effects on 
business and tourism – none of which are considered likely to be 
significantly adverse. The Project would create high quality, skilled 
jobs and represents a multi-million pound investment into the local 
area. 
 Traffic, transport and access – The majority of comments stated that 
the A140 access is unsuitable and that it would have an impact on 
local traffic.  PPL has taken these comments into account and ES 
(Document Reference 6.1) has found that the Project will have no 
significant impact on the A140. 
 
3.6.6 
Substation ECC – Respondents objected to the location of the Electrical 
Connection Compound on a greenfield site stating that the site is not suitable 
and impacts cannot be effectively mitigated. PPL has taken these comments 
into account and the Electrical Connection Siting Report   demonstrates that 
the selection of the Electrical Connection Compound location has been 
carefully considered and informed by a range of factors, including 
consultation, environmental, technical and commercial factors (Document 
Reference 10.3).   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
27 
 
 
3.6.7 
This parallel s42 and Information Update phase: 
 
 
provided an opportunity for PPL to explain key design 
decisions to the local community, made following the 
statutory consultation; 
 
made information relating to the design and siting of the 
Electrical Connection Compound and the Access Road and 
A140 Junction available; 
 
gave consultees a further opportunity to present their 
comments to PPL; 
 
encouraged PPL to modify its design principles 
 
resulted in PPL committing to producing an Electricity 
Connection Siting Report, explaining its site selection and 
design rationale. 
 
Influenced PPL’s decision to environmentally assess two 
substation technologies – an AIS technology variant and a 
GIS technology variant, although the former is considered 
acceptable. 
 
 
28 
 
4 
Conclusions 
4.1 
Key Outcomes of Statutory Consultation  
4.1.1 
PPL delivered its consultation activities in accordance with its SoCC. 
4.1.2 
Non statutory and statutory phases of consultation informed several important 
aspects of the Project, resulting in significant design interventions and 
mitigation commitments including a new A140 Junction, the adoption of an 
underground Cable solution; measures designed to create local socio-
economic benefits and a comprehensive landscaping strategy.  
4.1.3 
The outcomes enabled the Project to be refined prior to the submission of the 
Application.  
4.2 
Post-DCO Submission 
4.2.1 
Following submission of the Application, PPL are to issue a news bulletin to 
the local community confirming that the Application has been submitted to the 
Planning Inspectorate. The bulletin will confirm decisions made in relation to 
the Project through a review of consultation responses, and environmental and 
technical considerations, such as the selection of the Gas Connection Route 
Corridor Option 2, introduction of the A140 Junction, and Electrical Connection 
Compound site location. The bulletin will also note that, having regard to 
consultation responses and feedback in relation to the potential impact of the 
Electrical Connection Compound, PPL has ensured that there is room for two 
technology variants for the substation within the parameters of the Application 
– both an air insulated substation and a gas insulated substation. The news 
bulletin will be disseminated within the local community in similar manner 
utilised to deliver the Information Update in February 2014.  
4.2.2 
PPL is committed to continued engagement with the local community and key 
stakeholders following submission of the Application, as well as throughout the 
construction, operational and decommissioning phases should a DCO be 
granted.  
4.2.3 
In the early stages of non-statutory consultation, PPL raised the possibility of a 
Community Liaison Group in which a number of respondents expressed an 
interest. Should a DCO be granted, PPL is committed to establishing this 
group to maintain a dialogue with the local community through the period of 
construction and potentially into operation. 
4.2.4 
PPL will maintain on-going engagement with key stakeholders and local 
authorities  
