THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION. If you are in any doubt as to the action you 
should take you are recommended to seek your own financial advice from your stockbroker, solicitor, accountant or other 
professional adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have sold or transferred all of your holding of ordinary shares in Drax Group plc please forward this document and the 
accompanying documents (but not the personalised Form of Proxy), as soon as possible, to the purchaser or the transferee or to 
the person through whom the sale or transfer was effected for transmission to the purchaser or the transferee.
DRAX GROUP PLC 
NOTICE OF THE 
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (AGM)
TO BE HELD AT 12.30PM ON WEDNESDAY 27 APRIL 2022  
AT etc.venues St Paul’s, 200 Aldersgate, London EC1A 4HD
 
For shareholders, a Form of Proxy is enclosed with this document. Whether or not you propose to join the AGM remotely, you are 
requested to complete and submit a Form of Proxy to the Company’s Registrars, Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, 
Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA to arrive by no later than 12.30pm on Monday 25 April 2022.
If you hold shares in CREST you may appoint a proxy by completing and transmitting a CREST proxy instruction to Equiniti Limited 
(CREST participant ID RA19) so that it is received by no later than 12.30pm on Monday 25 April 2022.
Contents and expected timetable  
of principal events 2022
Contents
This document contains:
Page
Part A Letter from the Chair
1
Part B Notice of the Annual General Meeting
3
Part C Explanatory notes to the Notice of the AGM
5
Part D Administrative notes relating to the AGM
8
Part E Definitions
12
Part F Skills and experience of the Board
13
Appendix 1 – Employee Stock Purchase Plan
15
Appendix 2 – Amendments to Long Term Incentive Plan rules
16
Appendix 3 – Information for the Day: User Guide to joining the AGM remotely
17
Expected timetable of principal events 2022
Latest time for receipt of Forms of Proxy and CREST proxy instructions to be valid at the AGM
12.30pm on 25 April
AGM
12.30pm on 27 April
Ordinary shares marked ex-final dividend
28 April
Record date for entitlement to the final dividend
29 April
Dispatch of the final dividend warrants and tax vouchers
12 May
Payment date for the final dividend
13 May
 
 
 
Drax Group plc Notice of Annual General Meeting 2022 
1
Part A 
Letter from the Chair
Directors
Philip Cox CBE (Chair)
Will Gardiner (CEO) 
Andy Skelton (CFO) 
John Baxter CBE 
Nicola Hodson 
Kim Keating
David Nussbaum 
Erika Peterman
Vanessa Simms
17 March 2022 
Dear Shareholder,
Annual General Meeting (AGM) 
I am pleased to enclose the Notice of the AGM of Drax Group plc (the Company or Drax), which will be held at 12.30pm on 
Wednesday 27 April 2022 at etc.venues St Paul’s, 200 Aldersgate, London EC1A 4HD. The Notice of the AGM is set out in Part B on 
pages 3 and 4.
After two years where restrictions have prohibited us from holding a face-to-face AGM, I am very pleased to be able to invite you 
attend the meeting either in person or remotely by logging on to web.lumiagm.com. A user guide detailing the arrangements to join 
and submit questions at the meeting remotely is set out in Appendix 3 on pages 17 and 18. 
We remain vigilant to the continuing changes in response to the Covid-19 pandemic and therefore whilst we hope and plan for a 
face-to-face meeting, we accept this may be subject to change. As in the past, should that change, we would expect to provide 
updated information via RNS announcement, our website and where time permits through notification to shareholders in 
accordance with the usual means for advising you.
Your vote is important to us. All votes will be by poll, which means that each share carries one vote and all votes count, and we 
strongly encourage you to vote in advance or to appoint the Chair as your proxy by submitting your enclosed Form of Proxy by post 
or electronically as further detailed in Part D on pages 8 to 11. 
Explanatory notes
The explanatory notes to the Resolutions are set out in Part C on pages 5 to 7.
Annual Report and Accounts
A copy of the Company’s Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2021 is now available on our website at  
www.drax.com. Our website is one of the means by which we communicate with our shareholders. As well as the Annual Report and 
Accounts, you can find further information including information about our carbon negative ambitions and progress, our approach 
to sustainability, the latest news and press releases, investor presentations and dividend history. You can sign up for news alerts 
about Drax on our website www.drax.com by selecting ‘Subscribe’.
If you have requested to receive a hard copy of the Annual Report and Accounts, this is enclosed. If you no longer wish to receive  
a hard copy, and instead wish to receive communications electronically, please contact our Registrar, Equiniti, on 0371 384 2030 
from within the UK or +44 121 415 7047 from outside the UK.
Registered Office:  
Drax Power Station  
Selby  
North Yorkshire  
YO8 8PH  
Registered in England and Wales  
Number 5562053
2 
Drax Group plc Notice of Annual General Meeting 2022
Action to be taken
Ordinary shareholders
Whether or not you propose to attend the AGM in person or remotely, you are requested to:
(a)  complete and sign the enclosed Form of Proxy in accordance with the instructions printed thereon. Completed Forms of Proxy 
should be returned to Equiniti Limited, Proxy Department, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA as soon 
as possible and in any event so as to be received by Equiniti Limited no later than 12.30pm on Monday 25 April 2022; or
(b)  register the appointment of your proxy electronically at www.sharevote.co.uk. You will need your Voting ID, Task ID and 
Shareholder Reference Number (this is the series of numbers printed on your Form of Proxy). Alternatively, if you have already 
registered with Equiniti’s online portfolio service, Shareview, you can submit your Form of Proxy at www.shareview.co.uk using 
your usual user ID and password. Full instructions are given on both websites and instructions must be received by no later than 
12.30pm on Monday 25 April 2022.
If you hold shares in CREST you may appoint a proxy by completing and transmitting a CREST proxy instruction to Equiniti Limited 
(CREST participant ID RA19) so that it is received by no later than 12.30pm on Monday 25 April 2022.
Voting arrangements
Voting on each of the Resolutions to be put to the AGM will be by poll so that all votes are included whether or not the shareholder is 
able to attend the meeting.
The results of the voting at the meeting will be announced to the London Stock Exchange as soon as practicable following the 
meeting and will also appear on the Company’s website www.drax.com.
The Company has included on the Form of Proxy, and the Form of Direction, a “vote withheld” option in order for shareholders to 
abstain from voting on any particular Resolution. However, an abstention is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the 
calculation of the proportion of votes “For” or “Against” the relevant Resolution.
Recommendation
The Directors of the Company consider that the Resolutions to be put to shareholders at the AGM are in the best interests of the 
Company and its members as a whole.
Accordingly, the Directors unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of all the proposed Resolutions as they intend to do so in 
respect of their own beneficial interests.
Yours sincerely
Philip Cox CBE 
Chair
Letter from the Chair continued
 
 
Drax Group plc Notice of Annual General Meeting 2022 
3
Part B 
Notice of the Annual General Meeting
Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting (AGM) 
of Drax Group plc (the Company) will be held at 12.30pm on 
Wednesday 27 April 2022 at etc.venues St Paul’s, 
200 Aldersgate, London EC1A 4HD.
The shareholders of the Company are asked to consider and, if 
thought fit, pass Resolutions 1 to 16 and Resolutions 19 and 20 
as ordinary Resolutions, and to consider and, if thought fit, pass 
Resolutions 17, 18 and 21 as special Resolutions.
1.  To receive the Annual Report and Accounts of the Company 
for the year ended 31 December 2021, including (i) the 
Directors’ Report; (ii) the strategic report; and (iii) the report 
of the auditor of the Company on those audited accounts 
and the auditable part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
2.  To approve the annual statement to shareholders by the 
Chair of the Remuneration Committee and the Annual 
Report on Remuneration for the year ended 31 December 
2021 set out on pages 130 to 159, of the Annual Report and 
Accounts.
3.  To approve the final dividend of 11.3 pence per share for the 
year ended 31 December 2021.
4.  To elect Kim Keating as a Director of the Company.
5.  To elect Erika Peterman as a Director of the Company.
6.  To re-elect Philip Cox as a Director of the Company.
7.  To re-elect Will Gardiner as a Director of the Company.
8.  To re-elect Andy Skelton as a Director of the Company.
9.  To re-elect John Baxter as a Director of the Company.
10.  To re-elect Nicola Hodson as a Director of the Company.
11.  To re-elect David Nussbaum as a Director of the Company.
12.  To re-elect Vanessa Simms as a Director of the Company.
13.  To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditor of the Company to hold 
office from the conclusion of the 2022 AGM until the 
conclusion of the next meeting at which accounts are laid 
before the Company.
14.  To authorise the Directors to determine the auditor’s 
remuneration.
15.  That in accordance with Sections 366 and 367 of the 
Companies Act 2006 (CA 2006), the Company and all of the 
companies that are or become subsidiaries of the Company 
from time to time during the period for which this Resolution 
is effective are authorised to:
a. make political donations to political parties and/or 
independent election candidates, as defined in Sections 
363 and 364 CA 2006, not exceeding £100,000 in total; 
and/or
b. make political donations to political organisations other 
than political parties, as defined in Sections 363 and 364 
CA 2006, not exceeding £100,000 in total; and/or
c. incur political expenditure, as defined in Section 365 CA 
2006, not exceeding £100,000 in total;
 
 in each case provided that the aggregate amount of any 
such donations and expenditure shall not exceed £125,000.
 
 This authority shall commence on the date of the passing of 
this Resolution and remain in force until the conclusion of 
the 2023 AGM (or, if earlier, until the close of business on 30 
June 2023).
16.  That in substitution for all subsisting authorities, to the extent 
unused, the Directors be and they are hereby generally and 
unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 551 
CA 2006 to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot 
shares in the Company and to grant rights to subscribe for,  
or to convert any security into, shares in the Company:
a. up to an aggregate nominal amount of £15,372,523 (such 
amount to be reduced by the nominal amount of any 
equity securities (as defined in Section 560 CA 2006) 
allotted or granted under paragraph (b) of this 
Resolution in excess of £15,372,523); and
b. comprising equity securities (within the meaning of 
Section 560 CA 2006) up to an aggregate nominal 
amount of £30,745,047 (such amount to be reduced by 
the aggregate nominal amount of any shares allotted or 
rights granted under paragraph (a) of this Resolution) in 
connection with an offer by way of a rights issue:
i. 
to ordinary shareholders in proportion (as nearly as 
may be practicable) to their existing holdings; and
ii. to holders of other equity securities as required by 
the rights of those securities or as the Directors 
otherwise consider necessary, and so that the 
Directors may impose any limits or restrictions and 
make any arrangements which they consider 
necessary or appropriate to deal with treasury shares, 
fractional entitlements or securities represented by 
depositary receipts, record dates, legal, regulatory  
or practical problems in, or under the laws of, any 
territory or the requirements of any regulatory body 
or stock exchange or any other matter.
The authorities conferred on the Directors under paragraphs 
(a) and (b) above shall commence on the date of the passing 
of this Resolution and remain in force until the conclusion of 
the 2023 AGM (or, if earlier, until the close of business on  
30 June 2023), save that under each authority the Company 
may, before such expiry, make an offer or agreement which 
would or might require shares to be allotted or rights to 
subscribe for, or to convert any security into, shares to be 
granted after such expiry and the Directors may allot shares 
or grant rights to subscribe for, or to convert any security 
into, shares (as the case may be) in pursuance of such an 
offer or agreement as if the relevant authority conferred 
hereby had not expired.
17.  That subject to the passing of Resolution 16 above and in 
substitution for all subsisting authorities, to the extent 
unused, the Directors be and they are hereby empowered 
pursuant to Section 570 and Section 573 CA 2006 to allot 
equity securities (within the meaning of Section 560 CA 
2006) for cash either pursuant to the authority conferred  
by Resolution 16 or by way of a sale of treasury shares, as if 
4 
Drax Group plc Notice of Annual General Meeting 2022
Section 561(1) CA 2006 did not apply to any such allotment, 
provided that this power:
a. shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities in 
connection with an offer of equity securities (but in the 
case of the authority granted under paragraph (b) of 
Resolution 16, by way of a rights issue only):
i. 
to ordinary shareholders in proportion (as nearly as 
may be practicable) to their existing holdings; and
ii. to holders of other equity securities as required by 
the rights of those securities or as the Directors 
otherwise consider necessary, and so that the 
Directors may impose any limits or restrictions and 
make any arrangements which they consider 
necessary or appropriate to deal with any treasury 
shares, fractional entitlements or securities 
represented by depositary receipts, record dates, 
legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under 
the laws of, any territory or the requirements of any 
regulatory body or stock exchange or any other 
matter; and
b. in the case of the authority granted under paragraph (a) 
of Resolution 16 and/or in the case of any sale or transfer 
of treasury shares which is treated as an allotment of 
equity securities under Section 560(3) CA 2006, shall  
be limited to the allotment (otherwise than under 
paragraph (a) of this Resolution 17) of equity securities 
up to an aggregate nominal amount of £2,305,878
 
 The powers conferred under paragraphs (a) and (b) above 
shall commence on the date of the passing of this Resolution 
and remain in force until the conclusion of the 2023 AGM (or, 
if earlier, until the close of business on 30 June 2023), save 
that the Company may, before such expiry, make an offer or 
agreement which would or might require equity securities to 
be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot 
equity securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as 
if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
18.  That the Company be and is hereby generally and 
unconditionally authorised for the purposes of Section 701 
CA 2006, to make market purchases (within the meaning of 
Section 693(4) CA 2006) of ordinary shares with nominal 
value of 11 16/29 pence each in the capital of the Company 
(ordinary shares) on such terms and in such manner as the 
Directors of the Company shall from time to time determine, 
provided that:
a. the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares 
hereby authorised to be purchased is 41,306,803;
b. the minimum price (exclusive of expenses) which may be 
paid for an ordinary share is its nominal value; and
c. the maximum price (exclusive of expenses) which may be 
paid for an ordinary share is not more than the higher of:
i. 
an amount equal to 105% of the average of the 
middle market quotations of an ordinary share (as 
derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily 
Official List) for the five business days immediately 
preceding the date on which that ordinary share is 
contracted to be purchased; and
ii. the amount stipulated by Article 5(6) of the Market 
Abuse Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 as onshored 
into UK law on 31 December 2020 by the European 
Union (Withdrawal) Act 2018.
d.  the authority hereby conferred shall commence on the 
date of the passing of this Resolution and remain in 
force until the conclusion of the 2023 AGM (or, if earlier, 
until the close of business on 30 June 2023), unless 
previously revoked, varied or renewed by the Company in 
general meeting; and
e. the Company may at any time prior to the expiry of such 
authority enter into a contract or contracts under which 
a purchase of ordinary shares under such authority will 
or might be completed or executed wholly or partly after 
the expiration of such authority and the Company may 
purchase ordinary shares in pursuance of any such 
contract or contracts as if the authority conferred 
hereby had not expired.
19. That, 
a.  the Drax Group plc 2022 Employee Stock Purchase Plan 
(the ESPP) the principal terms of which are summarised 
in Appendix 1 to this Notice of AGM and the rules of 
which are produced at the AGM and, for the purposes of 
identification, initialled by the Chair, be and is hereby 
approved and that the Directors be authorised to do all 
acts and things which they may consider necessary or 
expedient to carry the ESPP into effect; and
b.  the Directors be and are hereby authorised to establish 
such further plans based on the ESPP as they consider 
necessary or desirable but which have been modified to 
take account of local tax, exchange control or securities 
laws in overseas territories, provided that any shares 
made available under such further plans are treated as 
counting against any limits on individual or overall 
participation in the ESPP. 
20.  That the amendments to the rules of the Drax Group plc 
Long Term Incentive Plan 2020 (the LTIP) summarised in 
Appendix 2 to this Notice of AGM and the amended rules of 
which are produced at the AGM and, for the purposes of 
identification, initialled by the Chair, be and are hereby 
approved and that the Directors be authorised to do all acts 
and things which they may consider necessary or expedient 
to carry the amended LTIP rules into effect. 
21.   That a general meeting of the Company, other than an AGM,  
may be called on not less than 14 clear days’ notice.
By order of the Board
Brett Gladden, 
Group Company Secretary, Drax Group plc, 
Drax Power Station, 
Selby,
North Yorkshire YO8 8PH
17 March 2022
Notice of the Annual General Meeting continued
 
 
Drax Group plc Notice of Annual General Meeting 2022 
5
Resolution 1
To receive and adopt the Company’s Annual Report and 
Accounts
The Directors are required to present to the meeting the Annual 
Report and Accounts for the financial year ended 31 December 
2021. This includes (i) the audited accounts; (ii) the Directors’ 
report; (iii) the Strategic report; and (iv) the report of the auditor 
of the Company on the audited accounts and the auditable part 
of the Directors’ Remuneration Report. A separate Resolution 
seeks approval by the shareholders of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report, which vote is advisory in nature.
Resolution 2
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Resolution 2 seeks shareholder approval for the annual 
statement to shareholders by the Chair of the Remuneration 
Committee and the Annual Report on Remuneration which  
can be found on pages 130 to 159 of the Annual Report and 
Accounts. The Annual Report on Remuneration gives details  
of the implementation of the Company’s existing Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy in terms of the payments and share awards 
made to the Directors in connection with their performance and 
that of the Company during the year ended 31 December 2021. 
This vote is advisory and will not affect the way in which the 
Directors’ Remuneration Policy has been implemented.
The Company’s auditor during the year, Deloitte LLP, has audited 
those parts of the Directors’ Remuneration Report that are 
required to be audited and their report can be found on pages 
169 to 177 of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Resolution 3
To approve the final dividend
Resolution 3 seeks shareholder approval to pay the final dividend 
of 11.3 pence per ordinary share, which is recommended by the 
Directors for payment to those shareholders who are on the 
Register of the Company at 6.30pm on 29 April 2022. If approved 
by shareholders at the AGM, the final dividend will be paid on  
13 May 2022.
Resolutions 4 to 12
To elect, and re-elect, the Directors
The Company’s articles of association provide that any new 
Director appointed by the Board during the year may hold office 
only until the next AGM, when that Director must retire but shall 
be eligible for election as a Director by the shareholders at that 
meeting. Erika Peterman and Kim Keating have joined the Board 
since the last AGM, having both been appointed by the Board  
on 21 October 2021, and are accordingly seeking appointment 
by shareholders.
In accordance with the Company’s articles of association, and in 
line with the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code (the Code), each of the other Directors will retire and offer 
themselves for re-election by shareholders.
The skills and experience for each of the Directors are set out  
in Part F of this Notice (and on pages 97 to 99 of the Annual 
Report and Accounts).
The Board has determined that all of the Non-Executive 
Directors being proposed for election or re-election are 
independent in character and judgement, and there are no 
relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or 
could appear to affect, their independence.
Following the internally conducted evaluations during 2021,  
the Board is satisfied that the performance of each Director 
standing for election or re-election continues to be effective 
and that each Director continues to demonstrate commitment 
to the role.
Resolutions 13 and 14
Re-appointment of auditor and determination of  
their remuneration
The Company must appoint or re-appoint an auditor at every 
general meeting at which accounts are presented and it is 
normal practice for the Company’s Directors, acting through  
the Audit Committee, to be authorised to determine the 
auditor’s remuneration. 
The Board further recommend that Deloitte LLP be appointed 
as auditor of the Company for the year ending 31 December 
2022. Deloitte LLP has advised its willingness to continue in 
office as auditor of the Company.
Resolution 15
Political donations and expenditure
Part 14 of the Companies Act 2006 (CA 2006) contains 
restrictions on companies making political donations or 
incurring political expenditure.
Drax is a politically neutral organisation and did not make any 
political donations in 2021.
It is not the policy of the Company to make donations to political 
parties, and the Directors have no intention of changing that 
policy. However, the CA 2006 defines political donations and 
political expenditure terms very widely. This means that 
activities that form part of the normal relationship between the 
Company and bodies concerned with policy review, law reform 
and other business matters affecting the Company, which 
might not be thought to be political expenditure in the usual 
sense, could require shareholders’ consent under the Act.
In view of the broad wording adopted in the CA 2006, and the 
Board’s wish to avoid any inadvertent infringement of it, it is 
seeking shareholders’ consent for the Company, and any wholly 
owned subsidiary company, to incur total annual expenditure 
for such purposes, provided that the aggregate amount of any 
such donations and expenditure shall not exceed £125,000, in 
order that the Company may continue to engage with regulators 
and policymakers without inadvertently breaching the applicable 
legislation. Further information on how the Company engaged 
with political parties in 2021 can be found on pages 39 and 162 
of our Annual Report and Accounts, and our Political Engagement 
Policy is available on our website at www.drax.com.
It is the intention that the Company will seek to renew this 
authority, if appropriate, at each subsequent AGM.
Part C 
Explanatory notes to the Notice of the AGM
6 
Drax Group plc Notice of Annual General Meeting 2022
Resolution 16
Authority of Directors to allot shares
The authority given to the Directors to allot further shares in the 
capital of the Company requires the prior authorisation of the 
shareholders in general meeting under Section 551 CA 2006. 
Upon the passing of Resolution 16 the Directors will have 
authority (pursuant to paragraph (a) of the Resolution) to allot 
shares up to an aggregate nominal value of £15,372,523, which  
is approximately one-third of the issued ordinary share capital 
as at 1 March 2022 (being the latest practicable date before the 
publication of this Notice). This authority will expire immediately 
following the AGM in 2023 or on 30 June 2023, whichever is  
the earlier.
In addition, in accordance with the Investment Association Share 
Capital Management Guidelines (which set out the expectations 
of institutional investors in relation to, among other things, the 
authority of Directors to allot shares), upon the passing of 
Resolution 16, the Directors will have authority (pursuant to 
paragraph (b) of the Resolution) to allot ordinary shares in 
connection with a rights issue in favour of ordinary shareholders 
up to a maximum nominal value of £30,745,047, as reduced by 
the nominal amount of any shares issued under paragraph (a)  
of Resolution 16.
This amount (before any reduction) represents approximately 
two-thirds of the Company’s issued ordinary share capital as at  
1 March 2022 (being the latest practicable date before the 
publication of this Notice). This authority will also expire 
immediately following the next AGM or on 30 June 2023, 
whichever is the earlier. As a result, if Resolution 16 is passed, 
the Directors could allot shares representing up to two-thirds  
of the Company’s current issued share capital pursuant to a 
rights issue.
The Directors will continue to seek to renew these authorities at 
each AGM, in accordance with current best practice from time 
to time. The Directors have no current plans to exercise this 
authority except in connection with employee share plans.
As at 1 March 2022, being the latest practicable date before 
publication of this Notice, the Company held 13,841,295 equity 
securities in treasury.
Resolution 17
Disapplication of pre-emption rights
If the Directors wish to exercise the authority under Resolution 
16 and offer shares (or sell any shares which the Company may 
purchase and elect to hold as treasury shares) for cash, the CA 
2006 requires that, unless shareholders have given specific 
authority for the waiver of their statutory pre-emption rights, 
the new shares must be offered first to existing shareholders  
in proportion to their existing shareholdings. In certain 
circumstances, it may be in the best interests of the Company  
to allot new shares (or to grant rights over shares) for cash 
without first offering them to existing shareholders in 
proportion to their holdings.
Resolution 17 would authorise the Directors to do this by 
allowing the Directors to allot shares for cash (i) by way of a 
rights issue (subject to certain exclusions), (ii) by way of an open 
offer or other offer of securities (not being a rights issue) in 
favour of existing shareholders in proportion (as nearly as may 
be) to their shareholdings (subject to certain exclusions) and (iii) 
otherwise than under (i) or (ii), up to an aggregate nominal value 
of £2,305,878 which is equivalent to approximately 5% of the 
issued ordinary share capital of the Company on 1 March 2022 
(being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this 
Notice). The Resolution also applies to the sale and re-issue of 
ordinary shares held as treasury shares by the Company.
If approved by the shareholders, the authority contained in 
Resolution 17 will expire on the earlier of the conclusion of the 
next AGM or on 30 June 2023. The Directors intend to renew 
such power at successive AGMs in accordance with current 
best practice.
The Directors have no current plans to exercise this authority 
except in connection with employee share plans (but they 
consider its approval to be appropriate in order to preserve 
maximum flexibility for the future).
In addition, and in line with best practice, the Company has not 
issued more than 7.5% of its issued share capital on a non-pre-
emptive basis over the last three years. In accordance with the 
Pre-Emption Group’s Statement of Principles regarding 
cumulative usage of authorities, the Directors do not intend to 
issue more than 7.5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the 
Company (excluding treasury shares) for cash on a non-pre-
emptive basis in any rolling three-year period without prior 
consultation with shareholders.
As at 1 March 2022, being the latest practicable date before the 
publication of this Notice, the Company held 13,841,295 equity 
securities in treasury.
Resolution 18
To authorise the Company to purchase its own shares
Resolution 18 is to authorise the Company to buy back up to 
41,306,803 ordinary shares. The authority would expire at the 
conclusion of the 2023 AGM or, if earlier, on 30 June 2023. The 
Directors intend to seek renewal of this power at subsequent 
AGMs in accordance with current best practice.
Resolution 18 specifies the maximum number of ordinary shares 
which may be purchased (representing 10% of the Company’s 
issued ordinary share capital as at 1 March 2022) and the 
maximum and minimum prices at which they may be bought, 
exclusive of expenses, reflecting the requirements of the CA 
2006 and the Listing Rules.
The Directors have no present intention of exercising this 
authority other than with a view for use in relation to employee 
share plans or where it is appropriate to conduct buy backs to 
return value to shareholders. The granting of this authority 
should not be taken to imply that any ordinary shares will be 
purchased, other than in relation to the above. Except in relation 
to the above, no purchase of ordinary shares will be made unless 
it is expected that the effect will be to increase earnings per 
share and the Directors consider it to be in the best interests of 
shareholders.
Under the CA 2006, the Company is allowed to hold its own 
shares in treasury following a buy back, instead of having to 
cancel them. This gives the Company the ability to re-issue 
treasury shares quickly and cost-effectively (including pursuant 
to the authority under Resolution 16 above) and provides the 
Explanatory notes to the Notice of the AGM continued
 
 
Drax Group plc Notice of Annual General Meeting 2022 
7
Company with additional flexibility in the management of its 
capital base. The Company currently holds 13,841,295 shares in 
treasury following a buy back programme between April 2018 
and January 2019.
Such shares may be re-sold for cash but all rights attaching to 
them, including voting rights and any right to receive dividends, 
are suspended whilst they are held in treasury. If the Directors 
exercise the authority conferred by Resolution 18, the Company 
will have the option of either holding in treasury or of cancelling 
any of its own shares purchased pursuant to this authority and 
will decide at the time of purchase which option to pursue.
The total number of options to subscribe for, and awards over, 
shares, outstanding at 1 March 2022, being the last practicable 
date before the publication of this Notice was 16,909,931. This 
represents approximately 4.09% of the issued share capital at 
that date. If the Company was to buy back the maximum 
number of ordinary shares permitted pursuant to this 
Resolution then the total number of options to subscribe for 
ordinary shares, outstanding at 1 March 2022, would represent 
approximately 4.55% of the reduced share capital.
Resolutions 19 and 20
To approve the new Drax Group plc 2022 Employee Stock 
Purchase Plan (ESPP) and amend The Drax Group plc Long 
Term Incentive Plan 2020 (LTIP) 
The Group has for many years operated employee share plans 
for employees, which have primarily been used for awards to 
employees in the United Kingdom. Given the expansion of the 
Group’s operations internationally, and in particular its 
acquisition of Pinnacle Renewable Energy, Inc., the Company 
wishes to have greater flexibility to be able to make awards of 
shares (or cash-based equivalent awards) to employees outside 
the United Kingdom. The Board is therefore seeking shareholder 
approval for the establishment of a new all-employee share 
purchase plan (the ESPP) and for amendments to the LTIP.
Resolution 19 seeks shareholder approval for the ESPP, the 
principal terms of which are summarised in Appendix 1 to the 
Notice of AGM. 
A UK Sharesave plan has operated for many years in the UK and 
it is popular with employees and achieves strong participation. 
In order to have the flexibility to offer similar opportunities to 
employees internationally, in particular in the US and Canada, 
the Company is proposing to establish the new ESPP under 
which eligible employees of the Company and certain of its 
subsidiaries are awarded options to purchase ordinary shares of 
the Company with a 15% discount to market value. The ESPP has 
two parts: one part for employees in the US, which is designed 
to qualify under section 423 of the US Internal Revenue Code of 
1986, as amended; and the other part for employees in Canada. 
The ESPP may also be used to make awards to employees of 
subsidiary undertakings, associated undertakings or related 
undertakings of the Company and to provide share-based awards 
in cash where the grant of shares is impracticable or not permitted. 
If passed, Resolution 19 will also enable the Company to add 
subplans to the ESPP or establish further plans based on the 
ESPP to enable the grant of options and awards to employees  
in overseas territories, taking account of local tax, exchange 
control and securities law issues in the relevant jurisdiction.
Resolution 20 seeks shareholder approval to amend the rules of 
the LTIP to take account of the variety of entities with 
employees working for the Group, particularly outside the UK, 
which include limited liability companies, limited partnerships, 
joint ventures and associated entities. The proposed 
amendments to the LTIP rules are summarised in Appendix 2 to 
the Notice of AGM.
The rules of the LTIP currently permit awards to be granted to 
employees of the Company and its subsidiaries. In order to 
provide greater flexibility, the Company is seeking shareholder 
approval to amend the LTIP rules so that share awards (and 
share-based awards in cash) may also be granted to and held by 
employees of subsidiary undertakings, associated undertakings 
and related undertakings of the Company. The Board believes 
that this change will provide an opportunity to offer share-
based incentives to attract, incentivise and retain relevant 
employees. 
Resolution 21
To allow general meetings to be held on 14 clear days’ notice in 
certain circumstances
Resolution 21 is a Resolution to allow the Company to hold 
general meetings (other than AGMs) on 14 clear days’ notice.
The Shareholders’ Rights Regulations state that the notice 
period required for general meetings of the Company is 21 days, 
unless shareholders approve a shorter notice period, which 
cannot, however, be less than 14 clear days. AGMs will continue 
to be held on at least 21 clear days’ notice.
In order to preserve the Company’s ability to call general 
meetings (other than an AGM) on 14 clear days’ notice, 
Resolution 21 seeks such approval. The shorter notice period 
would not be used as a matter of routine for such meetings, but 
only where the flexibility is merited by the business of the 
meeting and is thought to be to the advantage of shareholders 
as a whole.
The CA 2006 requires that, in order to be able to call a general 
meeting on less than 21 clear days’ notice, the Company must 
make a means of electronic voting available to all shareholders 
for that meeting. The Company provides this facility (see 
paragraph 19 of Part D on page 9 of this document for the 
Company’s arrangements for electronic proxy appointments).
8 
Drax Group plc Notice of Annual General Meeting 2022
Part D 
Administrative notes relating to the AGM 
Attendance
1. 
We have made arrangements for shareholders to attend the 
AGM using the Lumi AGM platform. This will allow you to join 
the meeting electronically, watch the presentations, vote 
and ask questions during the meeting. This can be done by 
accessing the AGM website https://web.lumiagm.com. 
Further details on how you can join us live are set out in 
Appendix 3 of this Notice.
2. Pursuant to regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities 
Regulations 2001 (as amended) and for the purposes of 
Section 360B CA 2006, the Company specifies that only 
those shareholders registered on the Register at 6.30pm on 
the day two business days before the date of the meeting 
(the Specified Time) (or if the meeting is adjourned to a time 
more than 48 hours after the Specified Time, by 6.30pm on 
the day which is two business days prior to the time of the 
adjourned meeting) shall be entitled to attend and vote 
thereat in respect of the number of shares registered in their 
name at that time. If the meeting is adjourned to a time not 
more than 48 hours after the Specified Time, that time will 
also apply for the purposes of determining the entitlement 
of members to attend and vote (and for the purposes of 
determining the number of votes they may cast) at the 
adjourned meeting. Changes to the Register after the 
relevant deadline shall be disregarded in determining rights 
to attend and vote.
3. If you have sold or transferred all your shares, this booklet 
and any accompanying documents (but not the 
personalised Form of Proxy or Form of Direction) should be 
passed to the person through whom the sale or transfer was 
made for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
Voting
4. Voting on each of the Resolutions to be put to the AGM will 
be by poll, so that all shares voted are included, whether or 
not the member is able to attend the meeting. The results of 
the voting at the meeting and the number of proxy votes 
cast for and against and the number of votes abstained in 
respect of each of the Resolutions proposed at the meeting 
will be announced to the London Stock Exchange as soon as 
practicable following the meeting and also will be published 
on the Company’s website www.drax.com.
5. Members are reminded of their right under section 360BA 
CA 2006 to request, within thirty days of a general meeting, 
information which enables them to determine that their 
vote on a poll at the general meeting was validly recorded 
and counted by the Company.
Questions at the meeting
6. Questions for the Board can be submitted in advance or at 
the AGM through the Lumi platform. To enable the Board to 
address as many member questions as possible, we would 
request that where possible, questions are submitted in 
advance of the AGM.
7. 
If multiple questions on the same topic are received in 
advance of the AGM, the Chair may choose to provide a 
single answer to address member queries on the same topic.
8. Any member joining the meeting has the right to ask 
questions. The Company must cause to be answered any 
question relating to the business being dealt with at the 
meeting put by a member joining the meeting. However, 
members should note that no answer need be given in the 
following circumstances:
• if to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation  
of the meeting or would involve a disclosure of 
confidential information;
• if the answer has already been given on a website in the 
form of an answer to a question; or
• if it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the 
good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
Appointment of proxies
9. If you are a member of the Company, at the time set out in 
note 2 above, you are entitled to appoint one or more proxies 
to exercise all or any of your rights to join and ask questions 
at the meeting. If a member appoints more than one proxy 
to join the meeting, each proxy must be appointed to 
exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares 
held by that member.
10. If a member wishes to appoint more than one proxy and so 
requires additional proxy forms, the member should contact 
the Company’s Registrars, Equiniti Limited, at Aspect House, 
Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA or by using 
their telephone helpline service on 0371 384 2030 from 
within the UK or +44 121 415 7047 from outside the UK. 
Lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday 
– excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
 
 
Drax Group plc Notice of Annual General Meeting 2022 
9
11. You can only appoint a proxy using the procedures set out in 
these notes and the notes on the Form of Proxy. A Form of 
Proxy is enclosed. To be effective, the Form of Proxy must be 
completed and signed and, together with the power of 
attorney or authority, if any, under which it is signed (or a 
duly certified copy of any such power or authority) must be 
lodged with the Company’s Registrars not later than 
48 hours, excluding non-business days, before the time of 
the meeting or must be lodged using the CREST proxy 
voting services (see note 13 below).
12. In the case of joint holders, where more than one of the joint 
holders purports to appoint a proxy, only the appointment 
submitted by the most senior holder will be accepted. 
Seniority is determined by the order in which the names of 
the joint holders appear in the Register in respect of the joint 
holding (the first-named being deemed the most senior).
13. CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by 
utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service 
may do so for the meeting and any adjournment(s) thereof 
utilising the procedures described in the CREST Manual 
(available via www.euroclear.com). CREST personal 
members or other CREST sponsored members, and those 
CREST members who have appointed a voting service 
provider(s), should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting 
service provider(s), who will be able to take the appropriate 
action on their behalf. In order for a proxy appointment or 
instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the 
appropriate CREST message (a CREST Proxy Instruction) 
must be properly authenticated in accordance with 
Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited’s specifications and must 
contain the information required for such instructions, as 
described in the CREST Manual.
14. The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the 
appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction 
given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be 
valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuer’s 
agent (Equiniti Limited CREST participant ID RA19) by the 
latest time(s) for receipt of proxy appointments specified in 
note 11 above. For this purpose, the time of receipt will be 
taken to be the time (as determined by the timestamp 
applied to the message by the CREST applications Host) 
from which the issuer’s agent is able to retrieve the message 
by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST. 
After this time any change of instructions to proxies 
appointed through CREST should be communicated to the 
appointee through other means. CREST members and, 
where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service 
providers should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited 
does not make available special procedures in CREST for any 
particular messages. Normal system timings and limitations 
will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy 
Instructions. It is the responsibility of the CREST member 
concerned to take (or, if the CREST member is a CREST 
personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a 
voting service provider(s), to procure that his or her CREST 
sponsor or voting service provider(s) take(s)) such action as 
shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted 
by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
15. In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, 
their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are 
referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST 
Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST 
system and timings www.euroclear.com.
16. The Company may treat as invalid a CREST proxy instruction 
in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35(5)(a) of the 
Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 (as amended).
17. A vote withheld is not a vote in law, which means that the 
vote will not be counted in the calculation of votes for or 
against the Resolution. If you either select the 
“discretionary” option or if no voting indication is given, your 
proxy will vote or abstain from voting at his or her discretion. 
Your proxy will vote (or abstain from voting) as he or she 
thinks fit in relation to any other matter which is put before 
the meeting.
18. If you are not a member of the Company but you have been 
nominated by a member of the Company to enjoy 
information rights, you do not have a right to appoint any 
proxies under the procedures set out in this “Appointment of 
proxies” section. Please read the section “Nominated 
persons” below.
Appointment of proxy electronically
19. Alternatively, members may register the appointment of a 
proxy for the meeting electronically by accessing the website 
www.sharevote.co.uk. You will need your Voting ID, Task ID 
and Shareholder Reference Number (this is the series of 
numbers printed on your Form of Proxy). Alternatively, if you 
have already registered with Company’s Registrar’s online 
portfolio service, Shareview, you can submit your Form of 
Proxy at www.shareview.co.uk using your usual user ID and 
password. Full instructions are given on both websites, 
which are operated by the Company’s Registrars.
20. The proxy appointment and any power of attorney or other 
authority under which the proxy appointment is made must 
be received by the Company’s Registrars not less than 48 
hours, excluding non-business days, before the time for 
holding the meeting or adjourned meeting or (in the case of 
a poll taken otherwise than at or on the same day as the 
meeting or adjourned meeting) for the taking of the poll at 
which it is to be used. Please note that any electronic 
communication sent to the Company or to the Company’s 
Registrars that is found to contain a computer virus will not 
be accepted. The use of the internet service in connection 
with the AGM is governed by the Company’s Registrars’ 
conditions of use set out on the Sharevote website,  
www.sharevote.co.uk, and may be read by logging on to that 
site. If you want to appoint more than one proxy electronically, 
please contact the Company’s Registrars on 0371 384 2030 
from within the UK or +44 121 415 7047 from outside the UK. 
Lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday 
– excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
10 Drax Group plc Notice of Annual General Meeting 2022
Website giving information regarding the meeting
21. A copy of this Notice and other information required by 
Section 311A CA 2006 can be found on the Company’s 
website www.drax.com.
Changing proxy instructions
22. To change your proxy instructions simply submit a new 
proxy appointment. You will need to request a new Form of 
Proxy from the Company’s Registrars, Equiniti Limited, by 
contacting them at Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, 
West Sussex BN99 6DA or by using their telephone helpline 
service on 0371 384 2030 from within the UK or +44 121 415 
7047 from outside the UK. Lines are open from 8.30am to 
5.30pm, Monday to Friday – excluding public holidays in 
England and Wales. Note that the cut-off time for receipt of 
Forms of Proxy (see note 20 above) also applies in relation to 
amended instructions; any amended proxy appointment 
received after the relevant cut-off time will be disregarded.
23. If you submit more than one valid proxy appointment in respect 
of a single share, the appointment received last before the 
latest time for the receipt of proxies will take precedence.
Nominated persons
24. Any person receiving a copy of this Notice of Meeting as a 
person nominated by a member to enjoy information rights 
under Section 146 CA 2006 (a Nominated Person) should 
note that the provisions in this Notice concerning the 
appointment of a proxy or proxies to attend the meeting in 
place of a member, do not apply to a Nominated Person as 
only shareholders have the right to appoint a proxy. 
However, a Nominated Person may have a right under an 
agreement between the Nominated Person and the member 
by whom he or she was nominated to be appointed, or to 
have someone else appointed, as a proxy for the meeting.  
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right, 
or does not wish to exercise it, he or she may have a right 
under such an agreement to give instructions to the 
member as to the exercise of voting rights at the meeting.  
If you are a person who has been nominated under Section 
146 CA 2006 to enjoy information rights:
• you may have a right under an agreement between you 
and the member of the Company who has nominated you 
to have information rights (Relevant Member) to be 
appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy 
for the meeting; and
• if you either do not have such a right or if you have such a 
right but do not wish to exercise it, you may have a right 
under an agreement between you and the Relevant 
Member to give instructions to the Relevant Member as to 
the exercise of voting rights. Nominated Persons should 
also remember that their main point of contact in terms of 
their investment in the Company remains the member 
who nominated the Nominated Person to enjoy 
information rights (or, perhaps the custodian or broker 
who administers the investment on their behalf). 
Nominated Persons should continue to contact that 
member, custodian or broker (and not the Company) 
regarding any changes or queries relating to the 
Nominated Person’s personal details and interest in the 
Company (including any administrative matter). The only 
exception to this is where the Company expressly 
requests a response from a Nominated Person.
Issued shares and total voting rights
25. As at 1 March 2022, being the latest practicable date prior to 
the publication of this Notice, the Company’s issued share 
capital comprised 413,068,027 ordinary shares of 11 16/29 
pence each. Each ordinary share carries the right to one 
vote at a general meeting of the Company. The Company 
holds 13,841,295 shares in treasury, therefore the total 
number of voting rights in the Company is 399,226,732.
26. This Notice, together with information about the total 
numbers of shares in the Company in respect of which 
members are entitled to exercise voting rights at the 
meeting as at 1 March 2022, being the latest practicable 
date prior to the publication of this Notice and, if applicable, 
any members’ statements, members’ Resolutions or 
members’ matters of business received by the Company 
after the date of this Notice, will be available on the 
Company’s website www.drax.com.
Website publication of audit concerns
27. Under Section 527 CA 2006, members meeting the 
threshold requirements set out in that Section have the 
right to require the Company to publish on a website a 
statement setting out any matter relating to the audit of the 
Company’s accounts (including the auditor’s report and the 
conduct of the audit) that are to be laid before the meeting; 
or any circumstance connected with an auditor of the 
Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting 
at which annual accounts and reports were laid in 
accordance with Section 437 CA 2006.
28. The Company may not require the members requesting any 
such website publication to pay its expenses in complying 
with Sections 527 or 528 CA 2006. Where the Company is 
required to place a statement on a website under Section 
527 CA 2006, it must forward the statement to the 
Company’s auditor not later than the time when it makes the 
statement available on the website. The business which may 
be dealt with at the meeting includes any statement that 
the Company has been required under Section 527 CA 2006 
to publish on a website.
Administrative notes relating to the AGM continued
 
 
Drax Group plc Notice of Annual General Meeting 2022 
11
Corporate representatives
29. Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more 
corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all 
of its powers as a member provided that it does not do so in 
relation to the same shares.
Electronic address
30. Any electronic address provided either in this Notice or in 
any related Documents (including the Form of Proxy) may 
not be used to communicate with the Company for any 
purposes other than those expressly stated.
Documents available for inspection
31. A copy of each of the Executive Directors’ service contracts 
and the Non-Executive Directors’ appointment letters and 
conditions of appointment will be available for inspection at 
the Company’s registered office. So that appropriate 
arrangements can be made for members wishing to inspect 
documents, we request that members contact the Company 
Secretary by email at companysecretary@drax.com in 
advance of any visit to ensure that access can be arranged.
 
The draft rules of the Drax Group plc 2022 Employee Stock 
Purchase Plan (ESPP) and the amended rules of the Drax 
Group plc Long Term Incentive Plan 2020 (LTIP) will be 
available for inspection on the National Storage Mechanism 
at https://data.fca.org.uk/#/nsm/nationalstoragemechanism 
from the date of sending this document. The draft rules of 
the ESPP and the amended rules of the LTIP will also be on 
display at the place of the AGM for at least 15 minutes before 
the AGM and during the AGM
Members’ right to have a matter of business dealt with 
at the meeting
32. Under Section 338 and 338A CA 2006 members meeting 
the threshold requirements in those Sections have the right 
to require the Company to:
• give, to members of the Company entitled to receive 
notice of the meeting, notice of a Resolution which may 
properly be moved and is intended to be moved at the 
meeting; and/or
• include in the business to be dealt with at the meeting any 
matter (other than a proposed Resolution) which may be 
properly included in the business. A Resolution may 
properly be moved or a matter may properly be included in 
the business unless (a) (in the case of a Resolution only) it 
would, if passed, be ineffective (whether by reason of 
inconsistency with any enactment or the Company’s 
constitution or otherwise), (b) it is defamatory of any 
person, or (c) it is frivolous or vexatious.
33. Such a request may be in hard copy form or in electronic 
form, must identify the Resolution of which notice is to be 
given or the matter to be included in the business, must be 
authorised by the person or persons making it, must be 
received by the Company not later than the date which is six 
clear weeks before the meeting, and (in the case of a matter 
to be included in the business only) must be accompanied 
by a statement setting out the grounds for the request.
Processing your personal data
34. Personal data provided by or on behalf of members in 
connection with the AGM may be processed by the 
Company and any third party to whom it discloses such data 
in connection with the holding of the AGM (including the 
Company’s Registrars) for the purposes of compiling and 
updating the Company’s records in connection with the 
AGM, fulfilling its legal obligations and handling the rights 
exercised by members. The Company shall process such 
personal data in accordance with its privacy policy, a copy of 
which is available at www.drax.com/privacy-notices/ 
site-visitor-privacy-notice/.
General enquiries
35. If you have any queries about voting or about your 
shareholding you can contact Equiniti Limited, who 
maintain the Register as follows:
• by using their telephone helpline service:
• from within the UK on 0371 384 2030; or
• from outside the UK on +44 121 415 7047; or
• by writing to them at Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, 
Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA.
 
The telephone helpline service will be available between 
8.30am and 5.30pm Monday to Friday – excluding public 
holidays in England and Wales.
 
The telephone helpline service will not be able to provide legal, 
financial or personal taxation advice. Calls may be recorded 
and randomly monitored for security and training purposes.
12 
Drax Group plc Notice of Annual General Meeting 2022
The following definitions apply throughout this document and in the accompanying Form of Proxy, unless the context  
requires otherwise:
“Annual General Meeting” or “AGM” or “meeting”
the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held at 12.30pm on 27 April 
2022 (and any adjournment thereof)
“Board” or “Directors”
the Directors of Drax Group plc
“CA 2006”
Companies Act 2006
“Code”
UK Corporate Governance Code 2018
“Company” or “Drax Group” or “Drax”
Drax Group plc
“Company’s Registrars”
Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA
“CREST”
the relevant systems (as defined in the CREST Regulations) in respect of which 
Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited is the Operator (as defined in such regulations)
“CREST Regulations”
the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 (SI 2001 No. 3755)
“Form of Proxy”
the proxy form enclosed with this document for use by shareholders to vote on 
Resolutions to be put to the AGM
“London Stock Exchange”
London Stock Exchange plc
“Official List”
the official list of the UK Listing Authority
“ordinary shares”
ordinary shares with nominal value of 11 16⁄29 pence each in the capital of  
the Company
“Register”
the register of members of the Company
”Resolutions”
the Resolutions set out in the notice convening the AGM
“shareholders” or “members”
holders of ordinary shares
“UK Listing Authority”
the Financial Conduct Authority acting in its capacity as the competent 
authority for the purposes of Part VI of the Financial Services and Markets  
Act 2000
“UK”
the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland
 
Part E 
Definitions 
 
 
Drax Group plc Notice of Annual General Meeting 2022 
13
Part F 
Skills and experience of the Board
Philip Cox CBE 
Chair
Contribution and Experience
Philip is an experienced leader of large businesses, having held 
both executive and non-executive roles, including in the energy 
sector. As Chair, Philip cultivates a culture of openness, 
transparency and honesty in which constructive debate and 
challenge occurs and in which all directors contribute fully.  
His responsibilities at Drax include Board composition and 
succession, Board governance and stakeholder engagement.
He was previously CEO of International Power plc, having 
formerly been CFO. Prior to this he held a senior operational 
position at Invensys plc and was CFO at Siebe plc. As a non-
executive he was previously Chair of Kier Group plc, the Senior 
Independent Director at Wm Morrison Supermarkets plc, Chair 
of Global Power Generation and a member of the boards of 
Talen Energy Corporation, PPL, Meggitt plc and Wincanton plc. 
Philip is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants and 
has an MA from Cambridge University.
Appointment to the Board: January 2015 
Appointment as Chair: April 2015
Will Gardiner 
CEO
Contribution and Experience
Will has a strong track record of building and leading well-
managed companies and creating value. He has been a key 
architect of our purpose and strategy, driving the sustainability 
agenda from the top, including Drax’s response to the climate 
change crisis, and ensuring that we are delivering for our 
stakeholders. He provides leadership of the executive team and 
takes responsibility for important external relationships and 
stakeholder management. Will is also a non-executive board 
member of the Sustainable Biomass Program.
Will joined Drax in 2015 as CFO and was appointed as CEO in 
January 2018. He has a wealth of experience in finance and 
technology, having held CFO and divisional Finance Director 
roles at a number of major companies, including CSR plc 
(acquired by Qualcomm, Inc in 2015) and Sky. He has dual US-UK 
citizenship and has lived and worked in the UK since 1998.
Appointment to the Board: November 2015
Andy Skelton 
CFO
Contribution and Experience
Andy has over 20 years of strong finance and commercial skills, 
alongside substantial experience in the technology sector. Since 
joining Drax three years ago he has driven efficiency and 
operational excellence across the Group to provide a sound 
framework from which we can deliver our purpose and strategy. 
Andy is responsible for financial control and planning, corporate 
finance, investor relations, tax, IT, procurement, strategy, 
mergers and acquisitions, risk, and internal audit. He also 
represents Drax as a board member of the Northern 
Powerhouse Partnership.
Andy was previously CFO at Fidessa Group plc and has held a 
number of senior finance positions at CSR plc, Ericsson and 
Marconi, including two years as CFO of Ericsson Nikola Tesla. 
Andy has a BA in accounting and finance and qualified as a 
chartered accountant in 1994.
Appointment to the Board: January 2019
John Baxter CBE,
Independent Non-Executive Director
Contribution and Experience
John brings to Drax highly valuable engineering, health and 
safety, and energy generation experience, with over 45 years 
working across the nuclear, electricity, oil and gas sectors.
John was previously at BP plc, most recently as Group Head of 
Engineering & Process Safety, prior to which he worked at the 
UK utility Powergen plc as Group Engineering Director, as well 
as roles as a UKAEA Board member and also as a nuclear 
submarine engineer officer. He is a non-executive Director of 
Sellafield Ltd and chairs the Sellafield Board Committee on 
Environment, Health, Safety & Security.
He is a Chartered Engineer, Fellow of both the Royal Academy of 
Engineering and the Royal Society of Edinburgh. John was 
President of both the Institution of Mechanical Engineers and 
The Welding Institute.
Appointment to the Board: April 2019
Nicola Hodson
Independent Non-Executive Director
Contribution and Experience
Nicola brings valuable technology expertise, as well as having 
extensive experience in business and digital transformation, 
sales and IT in leading global companies. As Chair of the 
Remuneration Committee Nicola brings to the role a wide range 
of experience of international business, government 
organisations, and dealing with a variety of stakeholders.
She is currently Vice-President, Global Sales and Marketing, 
Field Transformation at Microsoft, and was Chief Operating 
Officer of Microsoft UK. Previously she had P&L and sales roles 
at Siemens, CSC (now DXC) and EY. Nicola is a Non-Executive 
Director of Beazley plc.
Appointment to the Board: January 2018
14 
Drax Group plc Notice of Annual General Meeting 2022
David Nussbaum
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
Contribution and Experience
David’s extensive experience in international development and 
environmental matters, in addition to his prior experience as 
Finance Director of a UK listed industrial company, is of 
significant value to Drax and contributes to the Board’s 
discussions and understanding in the perspectives of and 
engagement undertaken with stakeholders.
David holds a portfolio of other Board appointments, including 
at the Value Reporting Foundation and the International Budget 
Partnership, and is a member of the Ethical Investment Advisory 
Group of the Church of England, and is Chair of the Advisory 
Council of Transparency International UK. 
His executive career has included being the Chief Executive of 
The Elders, of WWF-UK and of Transparency International. He 
was previously Finance Director and Deputy CEO of Oxfam, and 
Finance Director of Field Group plc. In a non-executive capacity, 
David has been Deputy Chair of Shared Interest Society, Chair of 
Traidcraft plc and a non-executive director of Low Carbon 
Accelerator Limited.
David is a chartered accountant, and has Masters in Theology 
from both Cambridge and Edinburgh universities and a Masters 
in Finance from the London Business School.
Appointment to the Board: August 2017
Vanessa Simms
Independent Non-Executive Director
Contribution and Experience
Vanessa has extensive experience in senior finance roles across 
several different, and capital intensive, industries, including real 
estate, medical devices and telecommunications. 
Her broad and varied experience in strategic capital allocation, 
finance, risk and internal control is invaluable in her role as Chair 
of the Audit Committee.
Vanessa is CFO of Land Securities Group plc, and has worked in 
finance for over 20 years. Prior to her role at Land Securities 
Group plc, Vanessa was CFO of Grainger plc, held a number of 
senior positions within Unite Group plc, including Deputy Chief 
Financial Officer, and was UK finance director at SEGRO plc. 
Vanessa is a Fellow of the Association of Chartered Certified 
Accountants and has an Executive MBA from Ashridge.
Appointment to the Board: June 2018
Kim Keating
Independent Non-Executive Director
Contribution and Experience
Kim is a Professional Engineer with 25 years of broad international 
experience in the oil and gas, nuclear, hydropower, and mining 
sectors. Most recently, Kim was the Chief Operating Officer of 
the Cahill Group, one of Canada’s largest multi-disciplinary 
construction companies with operations across the country.
Prior to joining the Cahill Group in 2013, Kim held a variety of 
progressive leadership roles from engineering design through to 
construction, commissioning, production operations and offshore 
field development with Petro-Canada (now Suncor Energy Inc.). 
Kim is currently a non-executive director of Yamana Gold Inc. 
and Major Drilling International Inc. She has led a range of 
innovative growth initiatives including climate change and 
renewable energy strategies. Kim is a Fellow of the Canadian 
Academy of Engineering, holds a Bachelor of Civil Engineering 
degree and an MBA. She also holds the Canadian Registered 
Safety Professional (CRSP) designation.
Kim is also a founding member of Makwa-Cahill Limited 
Partnership, a nuclear qualified indigenous fabrication 
company. She graduated from the Rotman-Institute of 
Corporate Directors Education Program and was awarded her 
ICD.D designation.
Appointment to the Board: October 2021
Erika Peterman
Independent Non-Executive Director
Contribution and Experience
Erika brings extensive experience gained from more than 25 
years working in global organisations, enabling the delivery of 
change and growth in complex, world-leading businesses. She 
brings broad knowledge serving various parts of the chemicals 
industry, across a range of sectors from plastics, petrochemicals, 
agriculture and pharma. 
Erika is currently Senior Vice President at BASF Corporation 
where she leads the North American Chemical Intermediates 
business. Erika has held a number of management and senior 
executive roles with BASF, covering manufacturing and 
production, engineering, strategy, and commercial business 
management roles. She actively supports BASF’s talent and 
workforce development programmes as well as a range of their 
diversity and inclusion initiatives. 
Erika serves on the University of Houston’s Engineering 
Leadership Advisory Board and chairs the Planning Committee 
as Board Trustee at Chatfield College in Cincinnati, Ohio. She is a 
member of the Executive Leadership Council, a non-profit whose 
mission is to globally accelerate the development of successful 
black executives across the lifecycle of their careers. Erika holds 
a BSc in chemical engineering from the Georgia Institute of 
Technology and an MBA from the University of Houston.
Appointment to the Board: October 2021
Skills and experience of the Board continued
 
 
Drax Group plc Notice of Annual General Meeting 2022 
15
Appendix 1 
Employee Stock Purchase Plan
Resolution 19
To approve the new Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP)
This appendix sets out the principal terms of the Drax Group plc 
2022 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”) which is being put 
to shareholders at the AGM for approval by Resolution 19.
The ESPP is an all-employee stock purchase plan under which 
eligible employees are awarded options over ordinary shares of 
the Company (“ESPP Options”). The ESPP has two parts; one 
part for employees in the US (the “US ESPP”); and the other part 
for employees in Canada (the “Canada ESPP”). The US ESPP is 
designed to qualify under section 423 of the US Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), giving eligible 
US participants certain tax benefits on gains made under the 
ESPP. The Board of Directors of the Company or a duly 
authorised committee (the “Board”) will supervise the operation 
of the ESPP.
Defined terms in this explanation are derived from the rules of 
the ESPP, which members are being asked to approve.
Eligibility and invitations to participate
Generally, all employees of any US or Canadian subsidiary of the 
Company which is designated by the Board as a participating 
company in the ESPP, meeting any relevant service requirement 
specified under the ESPP, will be eligible to participate in the 
ESPP and to receive an ESPP Option. Employees of a subsidiary 
undertaking, associated undertaking or related undertaking or 
entity of the Company designated as a participating employer (a 
“related employer”) may also be offered participation in the ESPP.
Employees who are citizens or residents of a non-US jurisdiction 
may be excluded from participation in the US ESPP if such 
employees’ participation would violate the laws of the applicable 
jurisdiction or if complying with the laws of the applicable 
jurisdiction would cause the US ESPP to violate section 423  
of the Code. The Board may impose additional eligibility 
requirements to the extent permitted by law. From time to time, 
the Company may invite eligible employees to take part in an 
Offering under the ESPP. Invitations and grants of ESPP Options 
may be made at any time, subject to any applicable restrictions 
under relevant legislation or regulations. 
Grant of ESPP Options and individual limits
Where the Company makes offers under the ESPP, ESPP Options 
are granted at the beginning of a specific offering period to 
those employees who have enrolled in the ESPP for that 
Offering Period. The Offering Period cannot exceed 27 months. 
The Board may not grant ESPP Options more than 10 years after 
the date of the approval of the ESPP by shareholders.
The price payable for each share underlying an ESPP Option 
shall be determined by the Board, provided that the purchase 
price is not less than 85 per cent of the fair market value of a 
share on the first day of the Offering Period or on the date at 
the end of the Offering Period on which the shares are 
purchased, whichever is the lower.
Participants enrol in the ESPP by authorising payroll deductions 
from their salary during the relevant Offering Period. For the US 
ESPP, under section 423 of the Code, participants may not be 
granted ESPP Options in any 12-month period over shares worth 
in excess of US$25,000 (measured at the time of grant). For the 
Canada ESPP, participants may not be granted ESPP Options in 
any 12-month period over shares worth in excess of the 
Canadian equivalent of US$25,000 (measured at the time of 
grant). The Company may for any given Offering Period at the 
time of invitation set a lower limit and may on receipt of 
applications for participation, scale back salary deductions. 
Participants are entitled to cease their payroll deductions  
at any time during an Offering Period and may in certain 
circumstances be permitted to change the amount of their 
payroll deductions.
Plan limits
The ESPP may operate over new issue shares, treasury shares or 
shares purchased in the market. The rules of the ESPP provide 
that, in any period of 10 calendar years, not more than 10% of 
the Company’s issued ordinary share capital may be issued 
under the ESPP and under any employees’ share scheme 
operated by the Company. Shares issued out of treasury under 
the ESPP will count towards this limit for so long as this is 
required under institutional shareholder guidelines. Options and 
awards which are renounced or lapse shall be disregarded for 
the purposes of this limit.
In addition, the maximum total number of shares which may be 
used in connection with the ESPP, whatever the source of the 
shares, is 20,000,000 ordinary shares. This figure corresponds 
to approximately 5% of the Company’s issued share capital as  
at 1 March 2022 but the actual number of ordinary shares which 
will be used under the ESPP is expected to be substantially less 
than this number. This number may be subject to adjustment  
in the event of certain changes to the corporate structure of 
the Company.
Exercise of ESPP Options
Provided the participant is still an eligible employee of a 
participating subsidiary or relevant participating related employer 
at the end of an offering period, the participant’s ESPP Option 
may be exercised using the accumulated payroll deductions to 
purchase the maximum whole number of shares possible. 
If a participant ceases to be employed by the Company or a 
participating subsidiary or relevant participating related 
employer of the Company for any reason, their ESPP Options will 
lapse and any accumulated payroll deductions that have not 
been used to buy shares under the ESPP during the offering 
period shall be returned to the participant or, in the case of 
cessation of employment due to death, returned to the personal 
representatives of the participant.
Corporate events
In the event of a change of control, winding-up or merger of the 
Company and certain other corporate events, the Board may 
decide whether the offering period shall be shortened and the 
date of exercise and subsequent purchase of shares will be 
brought forward or ESPP Options shall be cancelled and the 
accumulated payroll deductions returned to the participants. In 
certain circumstances, the ESPP Options may be replaced with 
options of an equivalent value in the relevant acquiring company.
Non-transferability of ESPP Options
The opportunity to be granted an ESPP Option is personal to 
participants and neither the opportunity nor any rights granted 
in relation to it may be transferred, assigned, pledged, charged 
or otherwise disposed of.
16 
Drax Group plc Notice of Annual General Meeting 2022
Resolution 20
To approve amendments to the Drax Group plc Long Term 
Incentive Plan 2020 (LTIP) 
Resolution 20 seeks shareholder approval to amend the rules of 
the LTIP to take account of the variety of entities with 
employees working for the Group, particularly outside the UK, 
which include limited liability companies, limited partnerships, 
joint ventures and associated entities. 
The rules of the LTIP currently permit awards to be granted only 
to employees of the Company and its subsidiaries. In order to 
provide greater flexibility, the Company is seeking shareholder 
approval to amend the LTIP rules so that share awards (and 
share-based awards in cash) may also be granted to and held by 
employees of subsidiary undertakings, associated undertakings 
and related undertakings and entities of the Company. 
In addition, it is proposed that the rules of the LTIP will be 
amended so that participants who remain in employment with 
any such employing entities will be treated as remaining in 
employment with the Group.
Variation of capital
If there is a variation of share capital of the Company, the Board may 
make such adjustments to the number of shares underlying ESPP 
Options and the price payable for each share underlying such ESPP 
Options in such manner as the Board determines appropriate.
Rights attaching to shares
Shares issued and/or transferred under the ESPP will not confer 
any rights on any participant until the relevant ESPP Option has 
been exercised and the participant in question has received the 
underlying shares. Any shares allotted when an ESPP Option is 
exercised will rank equally in all respects and as one class with 
shares then in issue (except for rights arising by reference to a 
record date prior to their issue).
Cash-based awards
The Board may establish a sub-plan to the ESPP to permit the 
grant of cash awards to employees in jurisdictions where the 
Board determines it is not practicable to offer shares on the basis 
that participants will receive a cash payment by reference to a 
number of notional shares. The provisions of the ESPP rules will 
apply to such cash awards subject to consequential modifications.
Amendments
Amendments to the ESPP rules may be made at the discretion 
of the Board. However, the provisions governing eligibility 
requirements, individual or overall limits, the basis for 
determining a participant’s entitlement to shares and the terms 
on which they are acquired and the adjustments that may be 
made following a rights issue or any other variation of capital 
and the limitations on the number of shares that may be issued 
or made available under the ESPP cannot be altered to the 
advantage of participants without prior shareholder approval, 
except for minor amendments to benefit the administration of 
the ESPP, to take account of a change in legislation or to obtain 
or maintain favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory 
treatment for participants or for the Company or any member  
of its Group. 
Amendments may not normally materially adversely affect the 
rights of participants except where participants are notified of 
such amendment and the majority of participants approve  
such amendment.
Overseas plans 
The Board may, at any time, establish further plans based on the 
ESPP for overseas territories but modified to take account of 
local tax, exchange control or securities laws. Any shares made 
available under such further overseas plans must be treated as 
counting against the limits on individual and overall participation 
under the ESPP.
Benefits not pensionable
Any ESPP Options granted, shares purchased or income 
recognised in connection with the ESPP are non-pensionable.
Appendix 2
Amendments to LTIP rules 
Appendix 1 
Employee Stock Purchase Plan 
continued
 
 
Drax Group plc Notice of Annual General Meeting 2022 
17
Electronic meeting
For the Annual General Meeting, Drax Group plc will be enabling 
members to join the meeting electronically, should they wish to 
do so. This can be done by accessing the AGM website, https://
web.lumiagm.com.
Accessing the AGM Website
Lumi AGM can be accessed online using most well-known 
internet browsers such as Edge, Chrome, Firefox and Safari on a 
PC, laptop or internet-enabled device such as a tablet or 
smartphone. If you wish to join the AGM using this method, 
please go to https://web.lumiagm.com on the day.
Logging in
On accessing the AGM website, you will be asked to enter a 
Meeting ID which is 129-877-982.
You will then be prompted to enter your unique Shareholder 
Reference Number (SRN) and PIN which is the first two and last 
two digits of your SRN. These can be found printed on your form 
of proxy. Access to the meeting via the website will be available 
from 11:30am on 27 April 2022.
Broadcast
The meeting will be broadcast with presentation slides. Once 
logged in, and at the commencement of the meeting, you will be 
able to listen to the proceedings of the meeting on your device, 
as well as being able to see the slides of the meeting which will 
include the Resolutions to be put forward to the meeting, these 
slides will progress automatically as the meeting progresses.
Questions
Members joining electronically may ask questions via the website 
by typing and submitting their question in writing.Select the 
messaging icon from within the navigation bar and type your 
question at the top of the screen, once finished, press the ‘send’ 
icon to the right of the message box to submit your question.
Requirements
An active internet connection is required in order to allow you to 
submit questions and listen to the audiocast. It is the user’s 
responsibility to ensure you remain connected for the duration 
of the meeting.
Duly appointed proxies and corporate 
representatives
Please contact the Company’s Registrar before 12:30pm on 
25 April 2022 on 0371 684 2030 or +44(0) 121 415 7047 if you 
are calling from outside the UK for your SRN and PIN.
Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday (excluding 
public holidays in England & Wales).
Appendix 3 – Information for the Day
User Guide to joining the AGM remotely 
18 
Drax Group plc Notice of Annual General Meeting 2022
Meeting ID: 129-877-982
To login you must have your SRN and PIN
1
2
3
Open the Lumi AGM website and you
will be prompted to enter the Meeting ID.
If a shareholder attempts to login to
the website before the meeting is live*,
a pop-up dialogue box will appear.
* 12:30pm on 27 April 2022
After entering the Meeting ID, you will 
be prompted to enter your unique SRN 
and PIN (see “Logging In” on page 17).
When successfully authenticated,  
you will be taken to the Home Screen.
4
5
To view the meeting presentation, expand 
the “Broadcast Panel”, located at the 
bottom of your device. If viewing through  
a browser, it will appear automatically.
This can be minimised by pressing the  
same button.
If you would like to ask a question,  
select the messaging icon.
Type your message within the chat box at 
the bottom of the messaging screen.
Click the send button to submit.
