 
 Commitment to Sustainable Forestry 
 
 
 
Drax is committed to implementing and achieving the Sustainable Forestry Initiative® (SFI) Standard, Forest Stewardship 
Council® (FSC) Chain of Custody and Controlled Wood Standards, and Program for the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC) 
Standard as part of its wood procurement program to broaden the practice of sustainable forestry. This commitment is in line with 
Drax Group Environmental Policy and Sustainability Policy for Biomass which covers all sourcing of biomass within the Group. 
 
Drax Sustainable Forestry Policy is to promote the Principles of Sustainable Forest Management including: encouraging 
sustainable forestry, employing responsible practices, regenerating the forest and maintaining productive capacity, protecting and 
maintaining long-term forest and soil productivity, protecting water resources, protecting special sites and biological diversity, 
complying with legal requirements, managing visual impacts and providing recreational opportunities for the public, 
promoting 
sustainable 
forestry among 
landowners, 
supporting 
forestry 
research, 
training 
and 
education, 
promoting 
community involvement and transparency, continually improving forest practices, and avoiding controversial sources. 
 
Drax will comply with the social, health and safety requirements of the standards. As such, Drax is committed to comply with 
applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations, including social laws such as those covering civil rights, equal employment 
opportunities, anti-discrimination and anti-harassment measures, workers’ compensation, indigenous peoples’ rights, workers’ 
and communities’ right to know, prevailing wages, workers’ right to organize, and occupational health and safety. Drax seeks to 
recognize and respect the rights of Indigenous Peoples’ and traditional forest-related knowledge Drax also promotes forest certification 
with family forest owners and requires wood producers to participate in appropriate logger training programs. 
 
To implement and achieve the SFI Standard Principles, Objectives, Performance Measures and Indicators, Drax has developed 
and adopted programs and plans to guide its wood procurement and fiber sourcing activities. These programs and plans are 
contained in appropriate documents including the SFI Certified Sourcing Requirements document, the Chain of Custody 
manual and other procedures. 
 
Drax is committed to following the SFI Principles for sustainable forestry practices, related to: 
1. Sustainable Forestry 
8. Research in sustainable forest management 
2. Forest Productivity and Health 
9. Training and Education 
3. Protection of Water Resources 
10. Community Involvement and Social Responsibility, and Respect for Indigenous Rights 
4. Protection of Biological Diversity 
11. Transparency 
5. Aesthetics and Recreation 
12. Continual Improvement and 
6. Protection of Special Sites 
13. Responsible Fiber Sourcing 
7. Legal Compliance 
 
 
Drax is committed to annually review the effectiveness of its sustainable forestry programs, systems, and commitments and to 
continual improvement in the practice of sustainable forestry, and to monitor, measure and publicly report progress performance 
in achieving the commitment to sustainable forestry. Drax is committed to implement its best efforts to avoid trading and 
sourcing wood from the following categories: 
 
a) 
Illegally harvested wood; 
b) 
Wood harvested in violation of traditional and civil rights; 
c) 
Wood harvested in forests where high conservation values are threatened by management activities; 
d) 
Wood harvested in forests being converted to plantations or non- forest use; 
e) 
Wood from forests in which genetically modified trees are planted. 
 
This commitment shall be made available to Drax personnel, suppliers, customers, and other interested parties upon request and will be 
posted at each participating site and on our website. 
 
 
 
Matt White EVP North America Pellet Operations 
 
 
Drax All documents on Drax PolicyTech website are under document control. Printed copies are instantly obsolete and are for use only when on- 
line access is not possible. Printed documents older than 30 days should be reprinted or checked against the official online document. All documents 
are Confidential and are for Internal Use Only. 
Sustainability 
Policy-SUS-001 
Revised: 8/8/2023 
Page: 1 of 1 
