Chapter 7
Noise and Vibration
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 7: NOISE AND VIBRATION 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
7-1 
 
CONTENTS 
7. 
Noise and Vibration ........................................................................................... 3 
7.1 Introduction ............................................................................................... 3 
7.2 Changes since the 2014 PEIR .................................................................. 3 
7.3 Legislation, policy and guidance ............................................................... 4 
7.4 Methodology ............................................................................................ 14 
7.5 Baseline Environment ............................................................................. 26 
7.6 Embedded Mitigation ............................................................................... 28 
7.7 Assessment of Effects ............................................................................. 28 
7.8 Mitigation and Monitoring ........................................................................ 36 
7.9 Residual Effects ...................................................................................... 37 
7.10 Cumulative Effects .................................................................................. 39 
7.11 References .............................................................................................. 39 
 
TABLES 
Table 7-1: A Summary of Changes since the 2014 PEIR to the Noise and Vibration 
Assessment ................................................................................................................ 3 
Table 7-2: Planning Practice Guidance ..................................................................... 11 
Table 7-3: Summary of Elements Scoped out of Assessment .................................. 14 
Table 7-4: Summary of Consultation Responses that have Informed the Scope and 
Methodology of the Noise and Vibration Assessment .............................................. 15 
Table 7-5: Noise Sensitive Receptors and Monitoring Locations .............................. 17 
Table 7-6: Sensitivity/Value of Receptors ................................................................. 17 
Table 7-7: Construction Noise SOAEL and LOAEL for Residential Receptors ......... 19 
Table 7-8: Construction Noise Magnitude of Impact criteria for Residential Receptors19 
Table 7-9: Construction Vibration Threshold at Residential Dwellings ...................... 20 
Table 7-10: Transient Vibration Guide Values for Cosmetic Damage ....................... 21 
Table 7-11: Magnitude of Impact – Construction Vibration Building Damage ........... 22 
Table 7-12: Magnitude of Impact for Industrial Noise in the Day .............................. 24 
Table 7-13: Magnitude of Impact for Industrial Noise at Night .................................. 25 
Table 7-14: Classification of Effects ......................................................................... 26 
Table 7-15: Representative Background and Ambient Sound Levels ....................... 26 
Table 7-16: Predicted Construction Sound levels LAeq,T ........................................... 29 
Table 7-17: Predicted Construction Sound levels LAeq,T ........................................... 30 
Table 7-18: Predicted Construction Sound levels LAeq,T ........................................... 30 
Table 7-19: Predicted Construction Sound levels LAeq,T ........................................... 31 
Table 7-20: Predicted Operational Specific Sound levels LAeq,T – Power Generation Plant 33 
Table 7-21: BS 4142 Daytime Excess of Rating Over Background Sound Level ..... 34 
Table 7-22: Changes to Ambient Sound Levels at Night .......................................... 35 
Table 7-23: Worst and Best Predictions of Operational Noise Effects ...................... 36 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 7: NOISE AND VIBRATION 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
7-2 
 
Table 7-24: Noise and Vibration Summary of Effects Arising during Construction Phase 38 
Table 7-25: Noise and Vibration Summary of Effects Arising during Operational Phase 
38 
 
FIGURES 
Figure 7.1: Nosie Receptor Locations and Estimate Sound Levels 
 
 
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 7: NOISE AND VIBRATION 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
7-3 
 
7. 
Noise and Vibration 
7.1 
Introduction 
7.1.1 
This chapter addresses the potential effects of noise and vibration resulting from 
the construction, operation, maintenance, and decommissioning of the Project on 
local NSRs. 
7.1.2 
A detailed description of the Project is provided in Chapter 3: Project and 
Description.  
7.1.3 
Effects during the construction, operation, maintenance, and decommissioning 
periods of the Project are assessed. In particular, the chapter considers potential 
effects on identified NSRs in terms of: 
 
Predicted noise and vibration levels during the site clearance and construction 
works associated with the Project;  
 
Qualitative assessment of changes in road traffic noise levels on the local road 
network during the construction phase;  
 
Predicted noise and vibration resulting from operation of the Project; and 
 
Predicted noise and vibration resulting from decommissioning of the Project 
based upon those that would be experienced during the construction period. 
a) 
Objectives of the assessment 
7.1.4 
The objectives of the assessment are to: 
 
Describe the legislative, planning and technical guidance backgrounds related 
to noise and vibration from industrial projects; 
 
Determine the appropriate noise and vibration assessment method and criteria; 
 
Assess the proposed details of the project against these criteria; 
 
Demonstrate the mitigation measures necessary to achieve the criteria. 
7.2 
Changes since the 2014 PEIR 
7.2.1 
There have been changes to the design as a result of design evolution and 
consultation as detailed in Chapter 3: Project and Site Description. To aid the 
reader, Table 7-1 below outlines the changes to this assessment compared with the 
2014 PIER.  
Table 7-1: A Summary of Changes since the 2014 PEIR to the Noise and Vibration Assessment 
Section 
Changes since the 2014 PEIR 
Section Reference 
Baseline 
No change as survey results were carried over.  
When suitable conditions occur the baseline will be 
re-measured.   As there do not appear to have 
been any significant changes in the sound scape in 
the interim, the updated baseline measurements 
are not anticipated to make any changes to the 
assessment and required mitigation. 
Section 7.5 
Methodology 
New approach taken to assessment of night time Section 7.4 and 7.7 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 7: NOISE AND VIBRATION 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
7-4 
 
Section 
Changes since the 2014 PEIR 
Section Reference 
noise limits based on WHO guidelines. 
Different plant configuration (single unit rather than 
five units).  Details of embedded mitigation 
modified accordingly. 
Section 7.6 
Marginally different assumptions for qualitative 
construction noise assessment.   
Section 7.4 and 7.6 
Significance of 
Effect 
No change. 
Section 7.7, 7.9 and 
7.10 
7.3 
Legislation, policy and guidance  
7.3.1 
This section identifies and describes legislation, policy and guidance of relevance 
to the assessment of the potential noise and vibration impacts associated with the 
removal and replacement of facilities and their subsequent operation. 
7.3.2 
Legislation and policy has been considered on an international, national, regional, 
and local level.  The legislation and guidance following is considered to be relevant 
to the noise and vibration assessment as it has influenced the assessment of the 
sensitivity of receptors and requirements for mitigation or the scope and/or 
methodology of this PEIR. 
a) 
International 
i. 
World Health Organisation 
7.3.3 
The World Health Organisation’s (WHO) ‘Guidelines for Community Noise’ (Ref. 
7.1) recommend external daytime and evening environmental noise limits, and 
internal night-time limits to avoid sleep disturbance. 
7.3.4 
The WHO ‘Night Noise Guidelines for Europe’ (Ref. 7.2) recommend updated 
guidelines on night-time noise limits to avoid sleep disturbance. 
ii. ISO 9613-2:1996 
7.3.5 
ISO 9613-2:1996 ‘Attenuation of Sound during Propagation Outdoors, Part 2: 
General Method of Calculation’ (Ref. 7.3) specifies an engineering method for 
calculating the attenuation of sound during propagation outdoors in order to predict 
the levels of environmental noise at a distance from a variety of sources.   
iii. ISO 4866-2:1996 
7.3.6 
ISO 4866:2010 ‘Mechanical Vibration and Shock – Vibration of Fixed Structures – 
Guidelines for the Measurement of Vibrations and Evaluation of Their Effects on 
Structures’ (Ref. 7.4) establishes the principals for carrying out vibration 
measurement and processing data with regard to evaluating vibration effects on 
structures. 
 
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 7: NOISE AND VIBRATION 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
7-5 
 
b) 
National 
i. 
Environmental Protection Act 1990  
7.3.7 
The Environmental Protection Act 1990 (EPA) Part 3 (Ref. 7.5) states that noise 
(and vibration) emitted from premises (including land) so as to be prejudicial to 
health or a nuisance constitutes a statutory nuisance. 
7.3.8 
Local Authorities are required to investigate any public complaints of noise and if 
they are satisfied that a statutory nuisance exists, or is likely to occur or recur, they 
may serve a noise abatement notice.  A notice is served on the person responsible 
for the nuisance.  It requires either simply the abatement of the nuisance or works 
to abate the nuisance to be carried out, or it prohibits or restricts the activity.  
Contravention of a notice without reasonable excuse is an offence.  Right of appeal 
to the Magistrates Court exists within 21 days of the service of a noise abatement 
notice. 
7.3.9 
In determining if a noise complaint amounts to a statutory nuisance the Local 
Authority can take account of various guidance documents and existing case law; 
no statutory noise limits exist.  Demonstrating the use of ‘Best Practicable Means’ 
(BPM) to minimise noise levels is an accepted defence against a noise abatement 
notice. 
ii. Control of Pollution Act 1974 
7.3.10 Sections 60 and 61 of the Control of Pollution Act 1974 (CoPA) (Ref. 7.6) provide 
the main legislation regarding demolition and construction site noise and vibration. 
If noise complaints are received, a Section 60 notice may be issued by the Local 
Planning Authority with instructions to cease work until specific conditions to reduce 
noise have been adopted.  
7.3.11 Section 61 of the CoPA provides a means for applying for prior consent to carry out 
noise generating activities during construction. Once prior consent has been 
agreed under Section 61, a Section 60 notice cannot be served provided the 
agreed conditions are maintained on-site.  
7.3.12 CoPA requires that BPM (as defined in Section 72 of CoPA) be adopted for 
construction noise on any given site. CoPA makes reference to British Standard 
(BS) 5228 as BPM. 
iii. Environmental Permitting Regulations 2016 
7.3.13 The Environmental Permitting (England and Wales Regulations) 2016 (Ref. 7.7) 
require the application of Best Available Techniques (BAT) to activities performed 
within installations regulated by the legislation in order to manage the impact of 
these operations on the surrounding environment. This, therefore, just applies to 
the operational period, not construction of the Project.  
7.3.14 In terms of noise specifically, the selection of BAT will have to be considered and 
balanced with releases to different environmental media (air, land, and water) and 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 7: NOISE AND VIBRATION 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
7-6 
 
to give due consideration to issues such as usage of energy and raw materials. 
Noise, therefore, cannot be considered in isolation from other impacts on the 
environment. 
7.3.15 The definition of pollution includes ‘emissions which may be harmful to human 
health or the quality of the environment, cause offence to human senses or impair 
or interfere with amenities and other legitimate uses of the environment’ (clause 2). 
BAT is therefore likely to be similar, in practice, to the requirements of the Statutory 
Nuisance legislation which requires the use of BPM to prevent or minimise noise 
nuisance.  In the case of noise, ‘offence of any human senses’ may be judged by 
the likelihood of complaints. However, the lack of complaint should not necessarily 
imply the absence of a noise problem. In some cases it may be possible, and 
desirable, to reduce noise emissions still further at reasonable costs and this may 
therefore represent BAT for the control of noise emissions from an installation. 
Consequently, the aim of BAT should be to ensure that there is no reasonable 
cause for annoyance to persons beyond the installation boundary. 
7.3.16 Guidance regarding Environmental Permitting and noise is available in the 
Environment Agency’s Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control (IPPC) H3 
document ‘Horizontal Guidance for Noise Part 2 - Noise assessment and Control’ 
(Ref. 7.8). However, ‘Horizontal Guidance for Noise Part 1 – Regulation and 
Permitting’ (Ref. 7.9), which provided useful guidance relating to noise limits from 
industrial installations in terms of absolute rating levels and rating levels relative to 
background noise levels (as defined in BS 4142:1997 (now superseded)) was 
withdrawn in February 2016.  Therefore, industry wide noise limits no longer apply. 
iv. National Policy Statements 
7.3.17 The Overarching National Policy Statement for Energy (NPS EN-1) (Ref. 7.10) 
issued by the Department for Energy and Climate Change (as was) sets out 
national policy with respect to energy infrastructure. 
7.3.18 Section 5.11 of NPS EN-1 sets out the requirements for assessing and mitigating 
noise and vibration from nationally significant infrastructure projects NSIPs in the 
energy sector. It also sets out the approach the SoS should adopt when 
considering noise assessments. 
7.3.19 It advises that operational noise from a proposed development and the proximity to 
noise sensitive receptors, quiet areas or sites designated for ecological reasons will 
determine the likely impact of noise. 
7.3.20 Where noise impacts are likely, a noise assessment should be undertaken in line 
with details listed in the NPS EN-1.   
7.3.21 Operational noise and vibration should be assessed using relevant British 
Standards (e.g. BS 4142, BS 6472, BS 8233 and BS 5228) and other guidance, 
including the other NPS’s. 
7.3.22 NPS EN-1 advises the SoS that the project should: 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 7: NOISE AND VIBRATION 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
7-7 
 
“Demonstrate good design through selection of the quietest cost-effective plant 
available; containment of noise within buildings wherever possible; optimisation of 
plant layout to minimise noise emissions; and, where possible, the use of 
landscaping, bunds or noise barriers to reduce noise transmission.” 
7.3.23 The proposal should meet the following aims before the SoS grants consent: 
 
“Avoid significant impacts on health and quality of life from noise, 
 
Mitigate and minimise other adverse impacts on health and quality of life from 
noise, 
 
Where possible, contribute to improvements to health and quality of life through 
the effective management and control of noise.” 
7.3.24 Section 5.11 of NPS EN-1 also sets out advice on mitigation and states: 
“The IPC should consider whether mitigation measures are needed both for 
operational and construction noise over and above any which may form part of the 
project application. In doing so the IPC may wish to impose requirements. Any such 
requirements should take account of the guidance set out in Circular 11/95 (see 
Section 4.1) or any successor to it. 
Mitigation measures may include one or more of the following: 
 
Engineering: reduction of noise at point of generation and containment of noise 
generated; 
 
Lay-out: adequate distance between source and noise-sensitive receptors; 
incorporating good design to minimise noise transmission through screening by 
natural barriers, or other buildings; and 
 
Administrative: restricting activities allowed on the site; specifying acceptable 
noise limits; and taking into account seasonality of wildlife in nearby designated 
sites. 
In certain situations, and only when all other forms of noise mitigation have been 
exhausted, it may be appropriate for the IPC to consider requiring noise mitigation 
through improved sound insulation to dwellings.” 
7.3.25 The National Policy Statement for Gas Supply Infrastructure and Gas and Oil 
Pipelines (EN-4) issued by the Department for Energy and Climate Change (as 
was) sets out national policy with respect to energy infrastructure. 
7.3.26 Section 2.20 of EN-4 advises that: 
“During the pre-construction phase there could be vibration effects from seismic 
surveys. During construction, tasks may include site clearance, soil movement, 
ground excavation, tunnelling, trenching, pipe laying and welding, and ground 
reinstatement. In addition, increased HGV traffic will be generated on local roads 
for the movement of materials. These types of noise and vibration impacts will need 
to be assessed. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 7: NOISE AND VIBRATION 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
7-8 
 
The commissioning of a new pipeline can involve extensive periods of drying after 
hydro-testing, using air compressors, and noise mitigation may be required for this 
type of activity.  
A new gas pipeline may require an above ground installation such as a gas 
compression station on the route of the pipeline to boost transmission line 
pressure. A new oil pipeline may require pumping stations. These may be located 
in quiet rural areas, and therefore the control of noise from these facilities is likely to 
be an important consideration.” 
7.3.27 Section 2.20 of EN-4 also advises on mitigation measures and states: 
“Noise mitigation measures for gas and oil pipelines, in particular their associated 
above-ground installations, include screening or enclosure of compressors and 
pumps. Other measures could include the use of sound attenuators on ventilation 
systems, acoustic lagging on pipework, multi-stage (inherently quiet) control valves, 
gas turbine exhaust silencers, and high efficiency low speed cooler fans, depending 
on the specific issues. Vibration mitigation measures could include the use of non-
impact piling such as augur boring.” 
v. Noise Action Plan for Wales 2013-2018 
7.3.28 The Noise Action Plan for Wales (Ref. 7.11) states in Section 1.2 as regards 
development: 
7.3.29 “The challenge therefore is to take a balanced approach to managing noise which 
considers the needs of individuals as well as the requirements of business and 
industry, so that our quality of life is not reduced in other ways. 
7.3.30 Almost everything that people do creates sound, and noise – unwanted sound – is 
to a certain extent an inevitable by-product of life. Yet for the reasons described in 
more detail in the sections below, and in the interests of a healthy, fair and 
prosperous society, it is important to have a legal and policy framework in place 
that: 
 
Protects people and wildlife from unacceptable or harmful levels of noise 
intrusion; and  
 
Gives everyone access to tranquil places where they can find respite from 
man-made sights and sounds.  
7.3.31 In Wales, sustainable development means enhancing the economic, social and 
environmental wellbeing of people and communities, achieving a better quality of 
life for our own and future generations.  
7.3.32 The Welsh Government’s vision of a sustainable Wales includes:  
 
Healthy, biologically diverse and productive ecosystems that are managed 
sustainably; and  
 
Communities that are safe, sustainable, and attractive places for people to live 
and work, where people have access to services and enjoy good health.” 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 7: NOISE AND VIBRATION 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
7-9 
 
7.3.33 Guidance on the "need to consider noise when planning a new development, be it 
a noise generating or a noise-sensitive" development is set out in Planning Policy 
Wales and Technical Advice Note 11 (TAN):  
vi. Planning Policy Wales (Edition 9, November 2016) 
7.3.34 Planning Policy Wales (PPW) (Ref. 7.12) sets out the land use planning policies of 
the Welsh Government (WG) and is supplemented by 21 topic based Technical 
Advice Notes (TANs).  
 
11.1.11: Formal and informal open green spaces, including parks with 
significant recreational or amenity value, should be protected from 
development, particularly in urban areas where they fulfil multiple purposes, not 
only enhancing the quality of life, but contributing to biodiversity, the 
conservation of nature and landscape, air quality and the protection of 
groundwater.  
 
13.13.1: Noise action plans, drawn up by the Welsh Ministers in relation to 
Wales under the Environmental Noise Directive and its transposing 
Regulations, aim to prevent and reduce environmental noise where necessary 
and preserve environmental noise quality where it is good. They are a planning 
consideration in the use and development of land.  
 
13.15.2: Special consideration is required where a noise-generating 
development is likely to affect a protected species, or is proposed in or near 
statutorily designated areas, including urban quiet areas designated in noise 
action plans. The effect of noise on the enjoyment of other areas of landscape, 
wildlife and historic value should also be taken into account. 
7.3.35 The policy also requires best practice in construction. 
vii. Technical Advice Note (TAN) 11 
7.3.36 Technical Advice Note TAN 11 – Noise (1997) (Ref. 7.13) is a Welsh Government 
document that provides guidance on how the planning system can be used to 
minimise the adverse impact of noise without placing unreasonable restrictions on 
development.  
7.3.37 The document talks about general principles in relation to noise and planning, and 
provides general guidance on both noise sensitive and noise generative 
developments, including draft planning conditions dealing with noise. The main 
detailed guidance provided in TAN 11 is the Noise Exposure Categories for new 
residential developments. 
7.3.38 Some detailed guidance is provided on the assessment of noise from a variety of 
sources, but this guidance generally refers to other documents for methods of 
assessment and criteria.  This guidance has been taken into consideration in this 
assessment  
7.3.39 The documents makes reference to BS 8233, BS 4142, BS 5228 (Ref. 7.14 to Ref. 
7-17). 
 
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 7: NOISE AND VIBRATION 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
7-10 
 
viii. National Planning Policy Framework 
7.3.40 The National Planning Policy Framework (NPPF) was published in March 2012 
(Department for Communities and Local Government (DCLG), 2012a) (Ref. 7.18) 
and details the Government’s planning policies for England and how these are to 
be applied.  As such is not directly applicable in Wales but does offer guidance with 
a relevance to the Project particularly with reference to the evaluation of SOAEL 
and LOAEL levels.  It is a material consideration in planning decisions made by 
local planning authorities in England. In respect of noise, it states: 
“The planning system should contribute to and enhance the natural and local 
environment by: preventing both new and existing development from contributing to 
or being put at unacceptable risk from, or being adversely affected by unacceptable 
levels of soil, air, water or noise pollution or land instability…” (paragraph 109) 
7.3.41 The NPPF supersedes the previous guidance document PPG 24 ‘Planning and 
Noise’ (Ref. 7.12). 
7.3.42 The planning system is required to contribute to and enhance the natural and local 
environment. Consequently, the aim is to prevent both new and existing 
development from contributing to or being put at unacceptable risk from, or being 
adversely affected by unacceptable levels of noise pollution. 
7.3.43 The NPPF states that planning policies and decisions should aim to: 
 
“Avoid noise from giving rise to significant adverse impacts on health and 
quality of life as a result of new development; 
 
Mitigate and reduce to a minimum other adverse impacts on quality of life 
arising from noise from new development, including through the use of 
conditions; 
 
Recognise that development will often create some noise and existing 
businesses wanting to develop in continuance of their business should not 
have unreasonable restrictions put on them because of changes in nearby land 
uses since they were established [subject to the provisions of the 
Environmental Protect Act 1990 and other relevant law]; and 
 
Identify and protect areas of tranquillity which have remained relatively 
undisturbed by noise and are prized for their recreational and amenity value for 
this reason.” (paragraph 123) 
ix. Planning Practice Guidance 
7.3.44 In March 2014, Department for Communities and Local Government (DCLG 
released its Planning Practice Guidance (PPG) web-based resource to support the 
NPPF (Ref. 7.19). The guidance advises that local planning authorities’ should 
consider:   Again this document is only strictly applicable to England but does give 
useful information on the setting of observable adverse effect levels (~OAEL): 
 
“Whether or not a significant adverse effect is occurring or likely to occur; 
 
Whether or not an adverse effect is occurring or likely to occur; and 
 
Whether or not a good standard of amenity can be achieved.” 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 7: NOISE AND VIBRATION 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
7-11 
 
7.3.45 This guidance introduced the additional concepts of NOAEL (No Observed Adverse 
Effect Level), and UAEL (Unacceptable Adverse Effect Level). Full details of the 
PPG on effects are provided in Table 7-2.  
7.3.46 Factors to be considered in determining if noise is a concern are identified including 
the absolute noise level of the source, the existing ambient noise climate, time of 
day, frequency of occurrence, duration, character of the noise and cumulative 
impacts. 
7.3.47 With particular regard to mitigating noise impacts on residential development, the 
guidance highlights those impacts may be partially off-set if residents have access 
to a relatively quiet façade as part of their dwelling or a relatively quiet amenity 
space (private, shared or public). 
Table 7-2: Planning Practice Guidance 
Perception 
Examples of outcomes 
Increasing 
effect level 
Action 
Not 
noticeable 
No effect 
No observed 
effect 
No specific 
measures 
required 
Noticeable 
and not 
intrusive  
Noise can be heard, but does not cause 
any change in behaviour or attitude; can 
slightly affect the acoustic character of the 
area but not such that there is a perceived 
change in the quality of life. 
No observed 
adverse effect 
No specific 
measures 
required 
Lowest Observed Adverse Effect Level 
Noticeable 
and intrusive 
Noise can be heard and causes small 
changes in behaviour and/or attitude (e.g. 
turning up volume of television; speaking 
more loudly; where there is no alternative 
ventilation, having to close windows for 
some of the time because of the noise). 
Potential 
for 
some 
reported 
sleep 
disturbance. Affects the acoustic character 
of the area such that there is a perceived 
change in the quality of life. 
Observed 
adverse effect 
Mitigate and 
reduce to a 
minimum 
Significant Observed Adverse Effect Level 
Noticeable 
and 
disruptive 
The noise causes a material change in 
behaviour and/or attitude (e.g. avoiding 
certain 
activities 
during 
periods 
of 
intrusion; where there is no alternative 
ventilation, having to keep windows closed 
most 
of 
the 
time 
because 
of 
the 
noise).  Potential for sleep disturbance 
resulting in difficulty in getting to sleep, 
premature awakening and difficulty in 
getting back to sleep. Quality of life 
Significant 
observed 
adverse effect 
Avoid 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 7: NOISE AND VIBRATION 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
7-12 
 
Perception 
Examples of outcomes 
Increasing 
effect level 
Action 
diminished due to change in acoustic 
character of the area. 
Noticeable 
and very 
disruptive 
Extensive 
and 
regular 
changes 
in 
behaviour and/ or an inability to mitigate 
effect of noise leading to psychological 
stress or physiological effects (e.g. regular 
sleep 
deprivation/awakening; 
loss 
of 
appetite, significant, medically definable 
harm, e.g. auditory and non-auditory). 
Unacceptable 
adverse effect 
Prevent 
x. British Standard 7445-1:2003 and 7445-2:1991 
7.3.48 BS 7445 ‘Description and measurement of environmental noise’ (Ref. 7.20 and Ref. 
7.21) defines parameters, procedures and instrumentation required for noise 
measurement and analysis. 
xi. British Standard 5228:2009+A1:2014 
7.3.49 BS 5228-1 ‘Code of practice for noise and vibration control on construction and 
open sites. Noise’ (Ref. 7.16) provides a ‘best practice’ guide for noise control, and 
includes Sound Power Level (Lw) data for individual plant as well as a calculation 
method for noise from construction activities. BS 5228-2 ‘Code of practice for noise 
and vibration control on construction and open sites. Vibration’ (Ref. 7.17) provides 
comparable ‘best practice’ for vibration control, including guidance on the human 
response to vibration. 
xii. British Standard 6472:2008 
7.3.50 BS 6472-1 ‘Guide to evaluation of human exposure to vibration in buildings Part 1: 
Vibration sources other than blasting’ (Ref. 7.22) presents recommended frequency 
weighted vibration spectra (for continuous vibration) and vibration dose values 
(VDV) (for intermittent vibration) above which adverse comment is likely to occur in 
residential properties. 
xiii. British Standard 7385:1993 
7.3.51 
BS 7385-2 ‘Evaluation and measurement for vibration in buildings. Guide to 
damage levels from groundborne vibration’ (Ref. 7.23) presents guide values for 
transient and continuous vibration, above which there is a likelihood of cosmetic 
damage. The standard establishes the basic principles for carrying out vibration 
measurements and processing the data, with regard to evaluating vibration effects 
on buildings. 
xiv. British Standard 4142:2014 
7.3.52 BS 4142 ‘Methods for rating and assessing industrial and commercial sound’ (Ref. 
7.15) can be used for assessing the effect of noise of an industrial nature, including 
mechanical services plant noise.  The method compares the difference between 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 7: NOISE AND VIBRATION 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
7-13 
 
‘rating level’ of the industrial noise, with the ‘background level’ at the receptor 
position. 
xv. British Standard 8233:2014 
7.3.53 BS 8233 Guidance on sound insulation and noise reduction for buildings (Ref. 7.14) 
contains guidance on internal noise levels for buildings of various types and used. 
xvi. Calculation of Road Traffic Noise 
7.3.54 Department of Transport (DfT)/Welsh Office Memorandum ‘Calculation of Road 
Traffic Noise’ (Ref. 7.24) describes procedures for traffic noise calculation, and is 
suitable for environmental assessments of schemes where road traffic noise may 
have an effect. 
xvii. Design Manual for Road and Bridges (DMRB) 
7.3.55 The Highways England ‘Design Manual for Road and Bridges (DMRB) Volume 11 
Section 3 Part 7 HD213/11 (Revision 1) Traffic Noise and Vibration’ (Ref. 7.25) 
provides guidance on the appropriate level of assessment to be used when 
assessing the noise and vibration effects arising from all road projects, including 
new construction, improvements and maintenance. The guidance can also be used 
for assessing changes in traffic noise levels as a result of non-road projects such 
as this. 
c) 
Local 
i. 
City and County of Swansea Unitary Development Plan (2008) 
7.3.56 Policy EV40 (Ref. 7.26) on Air, Noise and Light Pollution states that:  
7.3.57 “Development proposals will not be permitted that would cause or result in 
significant harm to health, local amenity, natural heritage, the historic environment 
or landscape character because of significant levels of air, noise or light pollution.” 
ii. Draft Swansea Local Development Plan (July 2017) 
7.3.58 The Draft Swansea Local Development Framework is not yet adopted planning 
policy, but a draft has been submitted for Examination in Public.  Consequently, 
whilst it is a material consideration, it does not yet attract full weight as adopted 
policy. 
7.3.59 Policy 14: Safeguarding the Environment (Ref. 7.27): 
“The County’s environment will be protected from materially harmful 
development and where possible enhanced. Development that would result in 
unacceptable adverse environmental effects will not be permitted, particularly in 
respect of: Air, noise, or light pollution.” 
 
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 7: NOISE AND VIBRATION 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
7-14 
 
7.4 
Methodology 
a) 
Scope of the assessment 
7.4.1 
The scope of this assessment has been determined through a formal 
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) scoping process undertaken to obtain a 
formal Scoping Opinion from the Secretary of State. Comments raised on the EIA 
Scoping Report have been taken into account in the development of the 
assessment methodology and these are detailed where relevant in this chapter.  
Responses to the comments raised in the Scoping Opinion can be found in Table 7-
4. 
7.4.2 
The elements of the project scoped out from this assessment are listed in Table 7-
3. 
Table 7-3: Summary of Elements Scoped out of Assessment 
Element 
Rationale 
A 
detailed 
assessment 
construction traffic 
assessment 
has 
been scoped out 
on the basis of 
<50 HGVs per day 
over 
the 
construction 
Phase. 
DMRB advises that an increase in road traffic flows of 25% (where the 
traffic speed and composition remain consistent) equates to an 
increase in road traffic noise of 1 dB LA. A doubling of traffic flow would 
be required for an increase in 3 dB LA. As there will be less than 25 % 
increase in traffic flows, the impacts will be negligible, and therefore 
not significant. No further assessment is deemed necessary. The 
actual traffic flows associated with construction for the project are 
expected to be below these levels except for a very brief period when 
a maximum of 146 movements may occur per day.  This will affect 
very few receptors for a brief period and will be managed through the 
CEMP to minimise impacts when the exact details of the programme 
and construction options are known.  As a result a detailed 
assessment would add little beneficial information at this stage. 
Operational noise 
and vibration  for 
AGI 
The equipment on the AGI will be restricted to passive pipework with 
no pressure reduction valves, water bath heaters or other potential 
noise sources. 
Operational noise 
and vibration  for 
Electrical 
Connection 
The Electrical Connection will be in the environs of the existing 
substation and will not introduce any new sources.  The Electrical 
Connection will form part the Substation and is not expected to include 
any new noise emitting sources. 
Detailed 
assessment 
of 
construction 
vibration 
In the absence of specific information on likely construction activities 
and plant, a qualitative assessment based upon professional 
judgement has been undertaken at this stage.  Given the significant 
distance to residential receptors, this qualitative judgement made is 
that no significant vibration (medium or high magnitude impacts) is 
expected to result at residential NSRs from construction and therefore 
assessment beyond the qualitative assessment in paras 7.7.20 and 
7.7.21 is scoped out. 
Assessment 
of 
generating 
plant 
operational 
vibration  
No causes of significant vibration associated with the Project are 
anticipated. The primary rotating equipment within the generator set 
will be balanced to a high degree and constantly monitored for any 
changes in the vibration levels it produces.  Therefore, further 
assessment of operational vibration has been scoped out of this 
assessment. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 7: NOISE AND VIBRATION 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
7-15 
 
b) 
Consultation 
7.4.3 
The scope of the assessment has also been informed by ongoing consultation with 
statutory consultees throughout the design and assessment process, including the 
SoS and CCS Environmental Health Department.  The discussions centred on the 
methodologies to be used to assess the noise emissions from the Project in the 
context of the area in which it is located. 
7.4.4 
A summary of the comments raised and responses are detailed in Table 7-4. 
Table 7-4: Summary of Consultation Responses that have Informed the Scope and Methodology of the 
Noise and Vibration Assessment 
Consultee 
Date 
Comment 
Response 
Secretary of 
State (SoS) 
(Scoping 
Report 
paragraph 
3.32) 
August 2014 
The SoS notes the intention 
for 
noise 
measurement 
locations for the baseline 
assessment to be agreed with 
the local EHO but draws 
attention to the comment from 
NRW that the discussion on 
noise surveys also needs to 
be communicated to NRW 
with particular reference to an 
A1 EPR permit which will 
include noise conditions.  
The baseline noise levels 
used in this preliminary 
assessment are taken 
from previous surveys.  
More 
baseline 
measurements 
will 
be 
required in future and 
NRW will be consulted 
before that takes place. 
SoS (Scoping 
Report 
paragraph 
3.33) 
August 2014 
The SoS draws attention to 
the 
comments 
of 
NRW 
regarding the requirements of 
the 
Environmental 
Noise 
Directive, 
and 
the 
Environmental Noise (Wales) 
(Amendment) 
Regulations 
2009, which have introduced 
a ‘Noise Action Plan for 
Wales.’ This covers industrial 
noise sources, impacts on 
designated Quiet Areas and 
the 
impact 
of 
creeping 
background, and should be 
taken into consideration by 
the Applicant.  
The Noise Action Plan for 
Wales has been taken 
into consideration within 
the context of a wide 
range 
of 
available 
guidance.  
SoS (Scoping 
Report 
paragraph 
3.34) 
August 2014 
The SoS recommends that 
information be provided on 
the types of vehicles and 
plant to be used during the 
construction 
phase. 
Noise 
impacts on people should 
specifically be addressed and 
in particular any potential 
noise disturbance at night 
Detailed assessment of 
construction 
vehicle 
noise 
has 
been 
considered and scoped 
out 
due 
to 
the 
insignificant 
expected 
effects.  The reasoning 
behind this is explained 
in more detail in Table 7-
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 7: NOISE AND VIBRATION 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
7-16 
 
Consultee 
Date 
Comment 
Response 
and other unsocial hours 
such as weekends and public 
holidays.  
3 
SoS (Scoping 
Report 
paragraph 
3.35) 
August 2014 
The SoS welcomes that the 
CEMP 
will 
set 
out 
best 
practice methods of limiting 
noise and vibration on site 
during 
construction 
and 
decommissioning.  
Noise mitigation will be 
included in the CEMP. 
SoS (Scoping 
Report 
paragraph 
3.36) 
August 2014 
The SoS recommends that 
the 
noise 
and 
vibration 
assessment takes account of 
traffic 
movements 
along 
access 
routes 
during 
the 
construction phase.  
Assessment 
of 
construction 
vehicle 
noise 
has 
been 
considered and scoped 
out 
due 
to 
the 
insignificant 
expected 
effects. 
SoS (Scoping 
Report 
paragraph 
3.37) 
August 2014 
The noise assessment should 
accurately 
identify 
the 
proximity of the identified 
noise sensitive receptors to 
the proposed development. 
With 
regards 
to 
the 
operational 
noise 
assessment, 
this 
should 
cover all modes of operation 
of the proposed development. 
The applicant’s attention is 
drawn to NRW’s comments in 
these respects. 
The assessment is based 
on the effects at the 
receptors closest to the 
Project Site. 
City and 
County of 
Swansea 
(CCS) 
Consultation 
with Mr Tom 
Price 
(Environmental 
Health Officer) 
on 
20th 
October 2017 
Confirms that the proposed 
approach to assessing Noise 
and Vibration in PEIR is 
acceptable and agrees with 
requirements of scoping 
report. 
The methodology discussed 
was based on BS 4142 for 
the daytime and WHO Night 
Time Noise Guidelines for the 
night. 
 The six NSR locations were 
discussed and agreed as 
appropriate 
The 
assessment 
has 
been completed in line 
with the methodology set 
out in the discussion. 
c) 
Study area 
7.4.5 
The extent of the study area has been defined to include the nearest 
receptors/communities in each direction from the Project Site that may be affected 
during the construction, operational and decommissioning phases of the Project.  
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 7: NOISE AND VIBRATION 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
7-17 
 
Representative NSRs within this study area in all directions from the Project Site 
have been identified for the purposes of assessment, to ensure all effects are 
appropriately considered. 
7.4.6 
Key NSR locations have been selected which are considered to be representative 
of the nearest and potentially most sensitive existing receptors to the Project Site. It 
is considered that if noise and vibration levels are suitably controlled at the key 
receptors identified, then noise and vibration levels would be suitably controlled at 
other sensitive receptors in the surrounding area, including the amenity of local 
footpaths and leisure facilities as the requirements for these will be less onerous.  
Impacts upon ecological receptors are considered in the Chapter 8: Ecology. 
7.4.7 
Those NSRs are listed in Table 7-5 and located in Figure 7.1. 
Table 7-1: Noise Sensitive Receptors and Monitoring Locations 
Noise Sensitive 
Receptor 
Address 
Details (distance from point source) 
NSR1 
Cefn-betingau 
Isolated farm house 500 m east of the Project 
Site 
NSR2 
Feline Wen 
Farm 
Isolated farm house 800 m south east of the 
Project Site 
NSR3 
Llwynhelig 
Isolated farm house 750 m south east the Project 
Site 
NSR4 
Maes-eglwys 
Isolated farm house 700 m south of Project Site 
NSR5 
Lletty Morfil 
Farm 
Isolated farm house 875 m west of Project Site 
NSR6 
Abergelli Farm 
Isolated farm house 600 m north west of the 
Project Site 
d) 
Sensitivity 
7.4.8 
In accordance with the principles of EIA, the sensitivity of existing receptors to 
noise (or vibration) impacts has been defined in Table 7-6. 
Table 7-2: Sensitivity/Value of Receptors 
Sensitivity/ value of 
resource/ receptor 
Description 
Examples of receptor usage 
Very high 
Receptors 
where 
noise or vibration will 
significantly affect the 
function of a receptor 
Auditoria/ studios 
Specialist medical/teaching centres, or 
laboratories 
with 
highly 
sensitive 
equipment 
High 
Receptors 
where 
people or operations 
are 
particularly 
susceptible to noise 
or vibration. 
Residential 
Quiet outdoor areas used for recreation 
Conference facilities 
Schools/ 
educational 
facilities 
in 
the 
daytime 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 7: NOISE AND VIBRATION 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
7-18 
 
Sensitivity/ value of 
resource/ receptor 
Description 
Examples of receptor usage 
Sensitive 
ecological 
receptors known to be 
vulnerable 
to 
the 
effects of noise or 
vibration 
Hospitals/ residential care homes 
Libraries 
Ecologically sensitive areas for example 
Special Protection Areas (SPAs) 
Medium 
Receptors moderately 
sensitive to noise or 
vibration where it may 
cause some 
distraction or 
disturbance 
Offices 
Restaurants/ retail 
Sports grounds when spectator or noise is 
not a normal part of the event and where 
quiet conditions are necessary (e.g. tennis, 
golf) 
Low 
Receptors where 
distraction or 
disturbance of people 
from noise or vibration 
is minimal 
Residences and other buildings not 
occupied during working hours 
Factories and working environments with 
existing high noise levels 
Sports grounds when spectator or noise is 
a normal part of the event 
e) 
Magnitude 
i. 
Assessment of Construction Noise Effects 
7.4.9 
Before the appointment of a construction contractor, site specific details on the 
construction activities, programme and number or type of construction plant are not 
yet available. Therefore, detailed construction noise predictions at specific NSRs 
have not been undertaken. As stated in the scoping report, a qualitative 
assessment will be undertaken, based on review of the indicative worst case 
construction noise predictions which were undertaken for a representative project 
using the calculation methods set out in BS 5228:2009+A1:2014 ‘Code of practice 
for noise and vibration control on construction and open sites' (Ref. 7.16). The 
predictions for each phase of the construction will be adjusted to reflect the 
distances to the actual receptors at the Project Site.  
7.4.10 BS 5228 contains a number of example methodologies for identifying significant 
construction noise effects based on fixed thresholds or noise level changes. Taking 
into account this guidance the threshold values detailed in Table 7-7 have been 
adopted in this PEIR to define the SOAEL (the ‘significant observed adverse effect 
level’, as defined in Section 7.3) and the LOAEL (the ‘lowest observable adverse 
effect level’) for residential receptors. 
 
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 7: NOISE AND VIBRATION 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
7-19 
 
Table 7-7: Construction Noise SOAEL and LOAEL for Residential Receptors 
Time of Day 
SOAEL LAeq,T dB 
(façade) 
LOAEL LAeq,T dB 
(façade) 
Daytime (07:00 – 19:00) and Saturdays (07:00 – 
13:00) 
75 
65 
Evenings (19:00 – 23:00 weekdays) and 
Weekends (13:00 – 23:00 Saturdays and 07:00 – 
23:00 Sundays) 
65 
55 
Night-time (23:00 – 07:00) 
55 
45 
7.4.11 The criterion for the SOAEL at residential receptors corresponds to the threshold 
values for Category C in the BS 5228 example ABC method.  Similarly, the criterion 
for the LOAEL corresponds to the threshold values for Category A in the BS 5228 
example ABC method.  In accordance with the NPPF and NPSE (used here as they 
give more quantitative information then the Welsh national guidance), it is important 
to consider receptors that exceed the LOAEL and ensure adverse effects are 
mitigated and minimised.  
7.4.12 When considering exceedances of the SOAEL and LOAEL, other project-specific 
factors have been taken into account, such as the existing ambient noise levels, 
number of receptors affected and the frequency and duration of the impact. 
7.4.13 Based upon the above, the magnitude of the impact of construction noise on 
residential receptors has been classified in accordance with the descriptions in 
Table 7-8.   
Table 7-8: Construction Noise Magnitude of Impact Criteria for Residential Receptors 
Magnitude 
of  Impact 
Daytime LAeq,T dB 
(façade) 
Evening / Weekend 
LAeq,T dB (façade) 
Night-time LAeq,T 
dB (façade) 
High 
> 80 
> 70 
> 60 
Medium 
>75-80 
>65-70 
>55-60 
Low 
>65-75 
>55-65 
>45-55 
Very Low 
≤ 65 
≤ 55 
≤ 45 
ii. Assessment of Demolition and Construction Vibration Effects 
Effects on Humans – Annoyance 
7.4.14 Vibration due to construction activities has the potential to result in adverse impacts 
at nearby NSRs. The transmission of ground-borne vibration is highly dependent on 
the nature of the intervening ground between the source and receiver and the 
activities being undertaken. BS 5228-2: 2009+A1: 2014 ‘Code of Practice for Noise 
and Vibration Control on Construction and Open Sites - Vibration’ (Ref 7.17) 
provides data on measured levels of vibration for various construction works, with 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 7: NOISE AND VIBRATION 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
7-20 
 
particular emphasis on piling. Impacts are considered for both damage to buildings 
and annoyance to occupiers. 
7.4.15 Table 7-9 details Peak Particle Velocity (PPV) vibration levels and provides a 
semantic scale for the description of demolition and construction vibration effects 
on human receptors, based on guidance contained in BS 5228-2.   
Table 7-9: Construction Vibration threshold at Residential Dwellings 
Peak Particle 
Velocity (PPV) 
level 
Description 
Magnitude 
of impact 
>= 10 mm/s 
Vibration is likely to be intolerable for any more 
than a very brief exposure to this level. 
High 
1.0 to < 
10 mm/s 
It is likely that vibration of this level in residential 
environments will cause complaint, but can be 
tolerated if prior warning and explanation has 
been given to residents. 
Medium 
0.3 to < 
1 mm/s 
Vibration might be just perceptible in residential 
environments. 
Low 
0.14 to < 
0.3 mm/s 
Vibration might be just perceptible in the most 
sensitive 
situations 
for 
most 
vibration 
frequencies associated with construction. At 
lower frequencies, people are less sensitive to 
vibration. 
Very low 
7.4.16 For residential receptors and other high sensitivity receptors, the LOAEL is defined 
as a PPV of 0.3 mm/s (millimetres per second), this being the point at which 
construction vibration is likely to become perceptible. The SOAEL is defined as a 
PPV of 1.0 mm/s, this being the level at which construction vibration can be 
tolerated with prior warning.  
7.4.17 At receptors above the SOAEL, further consideration of whether an effect is 
significant is undertaken using professional judgement, taking account of the 
duration and frequency of the effect, as well as the time of evening/night that the 
effect would be experienced. 
Effects on Buildings 
7.4.18 In addition to human annoyance, building structures may be damaged by high 
levels of vibration. The levels of vibration that may cause building damage are far in 
excess of those that may cause annoyance. Consequently, if vibration levels are 
controlled to those relating to annoyance (i.e. 1.0 mm/s), then it is highly unlikely 
that buildings will be damaged by construction vibration levels. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 7: NOISE AND VIBRATION 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
7-21 
 
7.4.19 The criteria used in this assessment relate to the potential for cosmetic damage, 
not structural damage. The principal concern is generally transient vibration, for 
example due to piling. 
7.4.20 BS 7385-2: 1993 ‘Evaluation and measurement for vibration in buildings – Part 2: 
Guide to damage levels from groundborne vibration’ (Ref. 7.23) provides guidance 
on vibration levels likely to result in cosmetic damage and is referenced in BS 
5228-2: 2009+A1:2014. Guide values for transient vibration, above which cosmetic 
damage could occur, are given in Table 7-10. 
Table 7-10: Transient Vibration Guide Values for Cosmetic Damage 
Type of building 
Peak component particle velocity in 
frequency range of predominant pulse 
4 Hz to 15 Hz 
15 Hz and above 
Reinforced 
or 
framed 
structures Industrial and heavy 
commercial buildings 
50 mm/s at 4 Hz and above 
Unreinforced 
or 
light 
framed 
structures 
Residential 
or 
light 
commercial buildings 
15 mm/s at 4 Hz 
increasing to 
20 mm/s at 15 
Hz 
20 
mm/s 
at 
15 
Hz 
increasing to 50 mm/s at 
40 Hz and above 
NOTE 1: Values referred to are at the base of the building. 
NOTE 2: For un-reinforced or light framed structures and residential or light 
commercial buildings, a maximum displacement of 0.6 mm (zero to peak) is 
not to be exceeded 
7.4.21 BS 7385-2:1993 states that the probability of building damage tends to zero for 
transient vibration levels less than 12.5 mm/s PPV. For continuous vibration, such 
as from vibratory rollers, the threshold is around half this value. 
7.4.22 It is also noted that these values refer to the likelihood of cosmetic damage. ISO 
4866:2010 defines three different categories of building damage: 
 
Cosmetic – formation of hairline cracks in plaster or drywall surfaces and in 
mortar joints of brick/concrete block constructions; 
 
Minor – formation of large cracks or loosening and falling of plaster or drywall 
surfaces or cracks through brick/block; and 
 
Major – damage to structural elements, cracks in support columns, loosening of 
joints, splaying of masonry cracks. 
7.4.23 BS 7385-2:1993 defines that minor damage occurs at a vibration level twice that of 
cosmetic damage and major damage occurs at a vibration twice that of minor 
damage. Therefore, this guidance can be used to define the magnitude of impact 
identified in Table 7-11. 
 
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 7: NOISE AND VIBRATION 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
7-22 
 
Table 7-11: Magnitude of Impact – Construction Vibration Duilding Damage 
Magnitude of impact Damage risk 
Continuous vibration level 
ppv mm/s 
High 
Major 
30 
Medium 
Minor 
15 
Low 
Cosmetic 
6 
Very low 
Negligible 
<6 
iii. Assessment of Operational Noise 
7.4.24 The assessment of operational sound levels has been based upon calculations 
using plant emissions data available at this stage. The data currently available 
includes generating equipment, sound power levels (LW), distance between the 
Power Generation Plant and NSRs and the acoustic screening offered by the 
existing landscape 
7.4.25 Based upon the predicted sound levels, an assessment of potential impact at 
nearby NSRs has been undertaken using the guidance in WHO Night time noise 
guides. 
7.4.26 BS 4142: 2014 ‘Methods for rating and assessing industrial and commercial sound’ 
(Ref. 7.15). 
7.4.27 BS 4142 describes methods for rating and assessing sound of an industrial and/or 
commercial nature. The method compares the rating sound level with the existing 
background sound level.  The standard uses the following definitions to describe 
various aspects of the soundscape of the scenario being assessed: 
 
Background sound level, LA90,T  dB - defined in the Standard as the ‘A-weighted 
sound pressure level that is exceeded by the residual sound for 90% of a given 
time interval, T, measured using time weighting F and quoted to the nearest 
whole number of decibels’. 
 
Specific sound level, Ls = LAeq,Tr  dB – the ‘sound source at the assessment 
location over a given reference time interval, Tr,’. 
 
Rating level, LAr,Tr – the ‘specific sound level plus any adjustment made for the 
characteristic features of the sound’. 
 
Ambient sound level, LAeq,T  dB - defined  in the standard as  ‘the totally 
encompassing sound in a given situation at a given time, usually composed of 
sound from many sources near and far when present. The ambient sound 
comprises the residual sound and the specific sound.’ 
 
Residual sound level, Lr = LAeq,T  –the ‘Ambient Sound remaining at the 
assessment location when the Specific Sound source is suppressed to such a 
degree that it does not contribute to the Ambient Sound’. 
7.4.28 When assessing a new sound source such as the Generating Equipment it is 
important to consider the context of the site and the nature of the existing noise 
sources in the area.  The Substation is part of the background sound environment 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 7: NOISE AND VIBRATION 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
7-23 
 
in the area and the impact of the generators should to be viewed in the context of 
that existing environment.  However, it is also necessary to consider the risks of 
new sources causing the ambient sound levels in the area to ‘creep’ up.   
7.4.29 Whereas the previous version of BS 4142:1997 allowed for a single correction of 
+5 dB to be made to the Specific Noise Level if one or more of the distinguishable, 
impulsive or irregular features were considered to be present, BS 4142:2014 allows 
for corrections to be applied based upon the presence or expected presence of the 
following: 
 
Tonality: up to +6 dB penalty; 
 
Impulsivity: up to +9 dB penalty (this can be summed with tonality penalty); and 
 
Other sound characteristics (neither tonal nor impulsive but still distinctive): + 3 
dB penalty. 
7.4.30 Once any adjustments have been made, the background sound level and the rating 
level are compared.  The standard states that: 
“Typically, the greater the difference, the greater the magnitude of impact.  
A difference of around +10 dB or more is likely to be an indication of a significant 
adverse impact, depending upon the context. 
A difference of around +5 dB is likely to be an indication of an adverse impact, 
depending upon the context. 
The lower the rating level is to the measured background sound level, the less 
likely it is that the specific sound will have an adverse impact or a significant 
adverse impact.  Where the rating level does not exceed the background sound 
level, this is an indication of the specific sound source having a low impact, 
depending upon the context.” (Section 11) 
7.4.31 Importantly, as suggested above, BS 4142:2014 requires that the rating level of the 
noise source under assessment be considered in the context of the environment 
when defining the overall significance of the impact. 
7.4.32 BS 4142:2014 suggests that a one hour assessment period is considered during 
the day and a 15-minute assessment period at night. 
7.4.33 Table 7-12 illustrates the adopted magnitude of impact scale used in this 
assessment based upon the numerical level difference. For BS 4142 assessment 
purposes the SOAEL is set at a rating level above the background sound level of 
+10 dB, and the LOAEL at +5 dB, although it should be remembered that the 
context assessment (including the absolute level of the sound under consideration) 
can vary the overall classification of effects. 
7.4.34 The nature and context of the site mean that BS 4142 would produce an 
inappropriate assessment of operational noise impacts at night.  As a result it was 
agreed in discussion with CCS to base the night time assessment upon the WHO 
document Night Noise Guidelines for Europe (Ref. 7.2). 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 7: NOISE AND VIBRATION 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
7-24 
 
7.4.35 The Night Noise Guidelines for Europe build on the earlier WHO Comity Noise 
Guidelines (Ref. 7.1) and assess the health and sleep effects of noise experienced 
by people at night.  It observes that below the level of 30 dB Lnight, no effects on 
sleep are observed except for a slight increase in the frequency of body 
movements during sleep due to night noise. There is no sufficient evidence that the 
biological effects observed at the level below 40 dB Lnight are harmful to health. 
However, adverse health effects are observed at the level above 40 dB Lnight, such 
as self-reported sleep disturbance, environmental insomnia, and increased use of 
sleeping pills and sedatives. Therefore, 40 dB Lnight is equivalent to the lowest 
observed adverse effect level (LOAEL) and 30 dB Lnight is equivalent to the no 
observable adverse effect level (NOAEL) for night noise.  
7.4.36 It this site the very low background sound levels at some of the receptors mean that 
SOAEL and LOAEL values based on the BS 4142 method, which are based on 
comparison with background sound, fall below the absolute SOAEL and LOAEL 
values in the WHO guidance. Therefore, the WHO values give the more 
appropriate assessment.   
7.4.37 These values apply to the total ambient sound incident on a dwelling not just to the 
contribution from an individual source such as the Project.  For this assessment it 
will therefore be necessary to predict the future ambient sound level by adding 
together the measured residual sound level and the predicted specific sound level.  
7.4.38 The WHO document recommends that for the prevention of subclinical adverse 
health effects related to night noise in the population, it is recommended that the 
population should not be exposed to night noise levels greater than 40 dB of 
Lnight during the part of the night when most people are in bed. The document also 
suggests an interim target (IT) of 55 dB Lnight in the situations where the 
achievement of the NOAEL is not feasible in the short run for various reasons.  
f) 
Significance Criteria 
7.4.39 Table 7-12 below lists the magnitudes of impacts for day time noise based on BS 
4142.  
Table 7-12: Magnitude of Impact for Industrial Noise in the Day 
Daytime 
Magnitude of 
impact 
BS 4142 descriptor 
Excess of rating level 
over  background 
sound level (dB) 
High 
No BS 4142 descriptor for this 
magnitude level 
>15 
Medium 
Indication of a significant adverse 
effect, depending upon context 
 +10 approx. 
Low 
Indication of an adverse effect, 
depending upon context 
+5 approx.  
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 7: NOISE AND VIBRATION 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
7-25 
 
Daytime 
Very low 
Indication of low impact, depending 
upon context 
≤ 0 
7.4.40 Table 7-13 below lists the magnitudes of impacts for night time noise based on the 
WHO guidelines.  
Table 7-13: Magnitude of Impact for Industrial Noise at Night  
Night time  
Magnitude of 
impact 
Descriptor 
Total ambient sound 
level outdoors (dB 
LAeq) 
High 
Based on level considered by WHO 
to be “increasingly dangerous to 
public health” 
>55 
Medium 
Based on level considered by WHO 
to produce observable “adverse 
health effects”  
40<55 
Low 
Based on LOAEL in WHO 
30<40  
Very low 
Based on NOAEL in WHO 
≤ 30 
g) 
Effect definitions 
7.4.41 Effects are classified based on the magnitude of the impact and the sensitivity or 
value of the affected receptor.  The criteria for assigning the magnitude of impacts 
are outlined for the various potential impacts during construction, operation and 
decommissioning, and these are followed by a scale of receptor sensitivity in Table 
7-6 and overall classification of effects matrix in Table 7-14. 
7.4.42 The following terminology has been used in the assessment to define effects: 
 
Adverse – detrimental or negative effects to an environmental resource or 
receptor; 
 
Neutral – effects to an environmental resource or receptor that are neither 
adverse nor beneficial; or 
 
Beneficial – advantageous or positive effect to an environmental resource or 
receptor. 
7.4.43 The effect resulting from each individual potential impact type above is classified 
according to the magnitude of the impact and the sensitivity or value of the affected 
receptor using the matrix presented in Table 7-14 but where necessary also 
considering the context of the acoustic environment. 
 
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 7: NOISE AND VIBRATION 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
7-26 
 
Table 7-14: Classification of Effects 
Sensitivity/ value 
of resource/ 
receptor 
Magnitude of impact 
High 
Medium 
Low 
Very low 
Very high 
Major 
Major 
Moderate 
Minor 
High 
Major 
Moderate 
Minor 
Negligible 
Medium 
Moderate 
Minor 
Negligible 
Negligible 
Low  
Minor 
Negligible 
Negligible 
Negligible 
7.4.44 For the purposes of this assessment, negligible and minor effects are not 
considered to be significant, whereas moderate and major effects are considered to 
be significant. 
7.5 
Baseline Environment 
7.5.1 
This section describes the baseline environmental characteristics for the Project 
and surrounding areas with specific reference to noise and vibration. The baseline 
sound levels presented within this report were measured by Parsons Brinckerhoff in 
August 2014 and presented in their report 287521A of March that year (Ref. 7.28) 
which was an appendix to the 2014 PEIR. The measurements were of limited 
scope at the time and will be updated before the construction of the Project. This 
update will occur at a time of suitable weather conditions. 
7.5.2 
Representative background and ambient sound levels have been taken from the 
Parsons Brinckerhoff report (Ref. 7.28), which was an appendix to the 2014 PEIR.  
Table 7-15 summarises the results for each NSR.  The values are still relevant but 
were limited in scope and are now three years old.  They will therefore be repeated 
prior construction of the Project.   
Table 7-15: Representative Background and Ambient Sound Levels 
NSR 
Observations of 
baseline sound 
environment 
Day time 
background 
sound level 
LAF90 
Day time 
ambient 
sound 
level LAeq 
Night time 
background 
sound level 
LAF90 
Night 
time 
ambient 
sound 
level LAeq 
NSR1  
Animals, farming 
activities and distance 
road traffic during the 
day and the wind in trees 
and distant road traffic at 
night 
41 
49 
25 
28 
NSR2  
Animals, farming 
activities and distance 
road traffic during the 
40 
50 
24 
27 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 7: NOISE AND VIBRATION 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
7-27 
 
NSR 
Observations of 
baseline sound 
environment 
Day time 
background 
sound level 
LAF90 
Day time 
ambient 
sound 
level LAeq 
Night time 
background 
sound level 
LAF90 
Night 
time 
ambient 
sound 
level LAeq 
day and the wind in trees 
and distant road traffic at 
night 
NSR3 
Animals, farming 
activities and distance 
road traffic during the 
day and the wind in trees 
and distant road traffic at 
night 
43 
57 
30 
37 
NSR4 
Animals, farming 
activities and distance 
road traffic during the 
day and the wind in trees 
and distant road traffic at 
night. Also located in 
vicinity of existing 
substation 
40 
51 
37 
47 
NSR5 
Animals, farming 
activities and distance 
road traffic during the 
day and the wind in trees 
and distant road traffic at 
night Also located in 
vicinity of existing 
substation  
39 
42 
27 
40 
NSR6 
Animals and distance 
road traffic during the 
day and the wind in trees 
and distant road traffic at 
night 
40 
41 
25 
28 
7.5.3 
The results show significant differences between the background sound levels 
during the day and at night at NSRs 1,2,3,5 and 6 (12 to 16 dB).  This reflects the 
variation in the principal noise sources such as farming activities and road traffic.  
The difference at NSR 4 was smaller due to more steady contributions from the 
sources in that area, but as a result the level at night at NSR 4 was significantly 
higher than at the other NSRs.   
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 7: NOISE AND VIBRATION 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
7-28 
 
7.5.4 
The night time background sound levels at NSRs 1, 2 and 6 are below 30 dB and 
would therefore be considered low. 
7.5.5 
The ambient sound levels showed a similar pattern with large day/night differences 
at NSRs 1, 2, 3 and 6 and smaller differences at NSRs 4 and 5. 
7.5.6 
The baseline ambient sound level (residual sound level) at NSR 4 already exceeds 
the LOAEL from the WHO guidelines by 7 dB LAeq.  
7.5.7 
In the absence of the Project, future baseline sound levels at NSRs would depend 
largely on traffic flows on surrounding road networks and the future operations at 
other industrial and commercial premises in the area.   
7.6 
Embedded Mitigation 
7.6.1 
As detailed in Chapter 3: Project and Site Description, a number of embedded 
mitigation measures have been identified through the iterative EIA process and 
have been incorporated into the design and construction planning of the Project.   
7.6.2 
As these mitigation measures have been embedded into the design, are legal 
requirements or are standard practices that will be implemented, the assessment of 
likely significant effects assumes that they are in place. 
7.6.3 
The preferred approach for controlling construction noise and vibration is to reduce 
levels at source where possible, but with due regard to practicality. Sometimes a 
greater noise or vibration level may be acceptable if the overall construction time, 
and therefore length of disruption, is reduced. 
7.6.4 
During operation, monitoring is considered appropriate in order to track the success 
of delivery of proposed mitigation.  Ideally this monitoring would be based on 
regular or fixed measurements close to the Project Site boundary to give 
consistency by minimising the impact of weather and extraneous sources.  The 
measured levels at these locations must be calibrated against the levels at the 
receptors as part of the plant commissioning sound test procedure.  Any change in 
Project Site boundary levels can then be related directly to changes at the 
receptors. 
7.7 
Assessment of Effects 
7.7.1 
This section presents the findings of the noise and vibration assessment for the 
construction phase, the operational phase and the decommissioning phase of the 
Project. 
7.7.2 
This section identifies any likely significant effects that are predicted to occur and 
Section 7.8 highlights the additional mitigation and monitoring measures that are 
proposed to reduce or eliminate the identified significant effects if required.  
a) 
Construction  
7.7.3 
This section sets out the preliminary assessment of the potential noise and 
vibration effects on sensitive receptors arising during the construction period.  
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 7: NOISE AND VIBRATION 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
7-29 
 
7.7.4 
Noise levels experienced by local receptors during such works depend upon a 
number of variables, the most significant of which are: 
 
The noise generated by plant or equipment used on-site, generally expressed 
as Sound Power Levels (Lw) or the vibration generated by the plant; 
 
The periods of use of the plant on-site, known as its on-time;  
 
The distance between the noise/vibration source and the receptor; 
 
The noise attenuation due to ground absorption, air absorption and barrier 
effects;  
 
In some instances, the reflection of noise due to the presence of hard surfaces 
such as the sides of buildings; and 
 
The time of day or night the works are undertaken. 
7.7.5 
At this stage, the final construction methods are not confirmed, therefore the worst 
case indicative construction noise levels have been based on information from 
other technically similar projects provided by the client and taken from published 
standards and AECOM archives.   
i. 
Power Generation Plant 
7.7.6 
The Residential NSRs are located at a range of distances in different directions 
around the Project Site, where the Generation Equipment is to be installed. The 
closest residential NSRs are Cefn-betingau, located approximately 500 m to the 
east, and Abergelli Farm located approximately 600 m to the north-west of the 
Generating Equipment Site.   
7.7.7 
The predicted levels are given in Table 7-16 below. 
Table 7-16: Predicted Construction Sound Levels LAeq,T  
 Location 
Power Generation Plant 
Cefn-betingau 
NSR1 
50 
Felin Wen Farm 
NSR2 
46 
Llwynhelig 
NSR3 
46 
Maes-eglwys 
NSR4 
48 
Lletty Morfil Farm 
NSR5 
45 
Abergelli Farm 
NSR6 
48 
7.7.8 
The predicted indicative construction noise levels for the power generation plant 
are below the LOAEL level in Table 7-17.  The sensitivity of all residential receptors 
is High as outlined in Table 7-14 and a magnitude of very low. So the significance of 
effects is predicted to be Negligible at all NSRs, and is therefore considered not 
significant. 
ii. Gas Connection 
7.7.9 
Abergelli farm is located within 60 m of the closest part of the Gas Connection.  
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 7: NOISE AND VIBRATION 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
7-30 
 
7.7.10 The predicted levels are given in Table 7-17 below. 
Table 7-17: Predicted Construction Sound Levels LAeq,T  
 Location 
Gas connection 
Cefn-betingau 
NSR1 
45 
Felin Wen Farm 
NSR2 
42 
Llwynhelig 
NSR3 
43 
Maes-eglwys 
NSR4 
46 
Lletty Morfil Farm 
NSR5 
48 
Abergelli Farm 
NSR6 
66 
7.7.11 The predicted indicative construction noise levels for the Gas Connection were 
below the NOAEL level in Table 7-7, apart from at NSR 6 where a level just 
exceeding the LOAEL during the day time but significantly below the SOAEL is 
predicted.  The sensitivity of all residential receptors is High as outlined in Table 7-
14 and a magnitude of low or very low. So the significance of effects is predicted to 
be Minor or Negligible which is not significant at all NSRs. 
iii. Electrical Connection 
7.7.12 The Residential NSRs 4 and 5 are located close to the Electrical Connection. 
7.7.13 The predicted levels are given in Table 7-18 below. 
Table 7-18: Predicted Construction Sound Levels LAeq,T  
 Location 
Electrical 
substation 
Electrical 
cable 
Electrical 
connection 
Cefn-betingau 
NSR1 
40 
41 
33 
Felin Wen 
Farm 
NSR2 
39 
39 
31 
Llwynhelig 
NSR3 
42 
41 
33 
Maes-eglwys 
NSR4 
48 
48 
40 
Lletty Morfil 
Farm 
NSR5 
58 
54 
46 
Abergelli Farm 
NSR6 
45 
43 
35 
7.7.14 The sensitivity of all residential receptors is High as outlined in Table 7-14 and the 
predicted indicative construction noise levels for the Substation, cable and 
connections were below the LOAEL level in Table 7-7, so the significance of effects 
is predicted to be Negligible for the NSRs during the various construction phases. 
Therefore, this is considered to be not significant. 
 
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 7: NOISE AND VIBRATION 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
7-31 
 
iv. Project Inter-relationship Effects 
7.7.15 The in combination effects of all construction activities taking place simultaneously 
on each of the receptors are summarised in the table below.  
Table 7-19: Predicted Construction Sound Levels LAeq,T  
Location  
Predicted in combination 
construction noise level 
levels LAeq 
Cefn-betingau 
NSR1 
52 
Felin Wen Farm 
NSR2 
49 
Llwynhelig 
NSR3 
49 
Maes-eglwys 
NSR4 
54 
Lletty Morfil Farm 
NSR5 
60 
Abergelli Farm 
NSR6 
66 
7.7.16 The predicted indicative construction noise levels for three components of the 
Project were below the NOAEL level in Table 7-7, apart from at NSR 6.  This was 
due to a very brief period during construction of the Gas Connection, which passes 
within 60 m of that NSR.  As such, the significance of effects is predicted to be 
Negligible for the NSRs during the various construction phases. 
v. General 
7.7.17 It may be necessary for some project critical construction activities, such as 
concrete pours, to take place continuously over day, evening and night periods 
during peak construction times of the Project, although the exact nature of the 
works is unknown. SOAEL and LOAEL threshold values during non-weekday 
daytime periods have been defined in Table 7-7. 
7.7.18 Comparison of the predicted daytime noise levels against the lower limit values for 
evening, weekend and night-time working indicate that there is a potential for 
minor/moderate adverse effects should work be undertaken outside daytime hours, 
which could be considered significant for a localised, temporary period. Therefore, 
construction activities taking place outside normal working hours will be avoided 
where possible.  If they cannot be avoided, these events will be planned, managed 
and mitigated appropriately through the CEMP, so as not to exceed the SOAEL 
threshold values and reduce levels towards the LOAEL (or less) where practical. 
Provided the SOAEL threshold values are not exceeded, construction activities 
outside of normal working hours can be considered as having a Minor Adverse 
effect or less, and therefore not significant.  Potential measures to ensure that 
appropriate mitigation is in place during the works have already been discussed in 
Section 7.5.  
7.7.19 The level of impact at different receptors would be dependent upon a number of 
factors, including distance between the works and receptors, ground conditions, the 
nature and method of works required close to receptors and the specific activities 
being undertaken at any given time. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 7: NOISE AND VIBRATION 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
7-32 
 
7.7.20 There are no residential receptors in close proximity to the Project to be 
significantly affected by construction vibration. However, there is the potential for 
some vibration impacts upon any buildings or structures close to the Project Site. 
Whilst it is considered unlikely that most typical construction working routines would 
generate levels of vibration above which building damage would be expected to be 
sustained (subject to final plant and working requirements).  
7.7.21 Where piling, heavy earthworks, vibratory rollers or other significant vibration 
producing operations are proposed in close proximity to any existing sensitive 
buildings, further consideration would be given to potential impacts, once the 
contractor is appointed and the construction methods requirements are developed.  
It is not possible at this stage to evaluation what the vibration levels produced might 
be.  The vibration limits set out in Section 7.3 would be included as part of the 
CEMP. As the construction of the Project is within the control of the Applicant, any 
identified issues can be effectively managed by the Applicant and their 
contractor(s). Potential measures to ensure that appropriate mitigation is in place 
during the works are described in Section 7.5. 
b) Operation 
7.7.22 The preferred configuration of the Project, including Generating Equipment is yet to 
be confirmed but will be within the Rochdale Envelope employed for the Project.  
Therefore, operational noise modelling has been undertaken for the indicative plant 
configuration outlined in Chapter 3: Project and Site Description in order to give 
a view of the noise levels that could be produced by the Generating Equipment. 
The predictions were undertaken based on all noise sources being located at the 
closest part of the Project Site within the Rochdale envelope parameters to each 
receptor and with no allowances for source directivity or on-site screening.  This 
was to give a worst case within the Rochdale envelope. 
7.7.23 Input LW data was either provided by the potential suppliers or has been taken from 
AECOMs archive of data for similar installations. The sound power level data was 
provided for various source components.  The typical source components included 
the following, although there were some minor differences in the data provided by 
each supplier: 
 
Gas turbine equipment enclosures and buildings 
 
Diffuser enclosure; 
 
Generator enclosure; 
 
Auxiliaries enclosure; 
 
Air duct; 
 
Air intake inlet; 
 
Air intake body; 
 
Stack body upstream silencer; 
 
Stack body downstream silencer; and 
 
Stack outlet. 
7.7.24 Discussions were held with potential suppliers and the AECOM database of noise 
levels for similar projects was examined in order to identify the levels that can be 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 7: NOISE AND VIBRATION 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
7-33 
 
achieved by applying the noise control measures, sound power levels for each of 
the major sources.  Based on that research the following levels were used: 
 
A sound power level of 98 dB LWA from the stack in the direction of the 
receptors; 
 
A total sound power level of 96 dB LWA from the Generating Equipment 
enclosures; and 
 
A sound power level of 90 dB LWA from the fin fan cooler. 
7.7.25 These levels can be achieved by extensive use of the mitigation measures 
described in Chapter 3: Project and Site Description during the detailed design. 
7.7.26 The assessment described sets out the predicted impacts and effects associated 
with operation of the Project the operational assessment scenario which would be 
long-term).  
7.7.27 The following assumptions have been made when undertaking the operational 
noise modelling to give a realistic worst case assessment: 
 
The Project would operate any time during the day or night; 
 
Noise levels provided by manufacturers for all principal noise emitting 
buildings/elements (air inlet filters, electrical buildings, transformers, workshops 
etc.) are understood to be external radiated SWL; 
 
Prediction methodologies were based on ISO 9613:2 assuming downwind 
propagation to each receptor.  This negates effect of any screening by rolling 
ground and means that the sound pressure levels are determined by distance 
and air absorption; and 
 
Corrections for tonality, impulsivity, and intermittency have not been applied on 
the assumption that these potential features would be designed out of the 
Project during the detailed design phase by the selection of appropriate plant, 
building cladding louvres and silencers/attenuators. However, for the daytime 
BS 4142 assessment a +3 dB correction has been applied to the specific noise 
levels predicted from the Project Site on the basis that the noise emissions may 
be distinctive above the residual acoustic environment.  This is considered 
conservative in the context of the prevailing noise environment, which includes 
road traffic, the existing electrical infrastructure and agricultural equipment. 
7.7.28 It is currently understood that the operation of the Generating Equipment would be 
driven by the dynamics of the energy market; as a result the plant could run for 
short or longer periods, at any time of day, up to the maximum allowed under its 
Environmental Permit. 
7.7.29 The predicted free-field operational specific sound levels at the NSRs around the 
Project Site are presented in Table 7-20. 
Table 7-20: Predicted Operational Specific Sound Levels LAeq,T – Power Generation Plant 
Location 
Predicted specific sound levels LAeq 
Cefn-betingau 
NSR1 
35 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 7: NOISE AND VIBRATION 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
7-34 
 
Location 
Predicted specific sound levels LAeq 
Felin Wen Farm 
NSR2 
30 
Llwynhelig 
NSR3 
31 
Maes-eglwys 
NSR4 
32 
Lletty Morfil Farm 
NSR5 
29 
Abergelli Farm 
NSR6 
34 
7.7.30 The nature of the predictions, which allow flexibility of plant location to produce a 
worst case at each receptor mean that exact predictions cannot be made at the site 
boundary line at this time.  However, the calculations used to predict the levels at 
the receptors also indicate that the average level around the site boundary will be 
around 50 dB LA with a maximum level of around 55 dB LA. When final plant 
selections and locations have been set then a more detailed profile of the sound 
levels around the boundary can be predicted.   
7.7.31 The daytime BS 4142 assessments results for receptors NSR1 – NSR6 are 
presented in Table 7-21.  The values are the differences between the range of 
representative background sound level at each NSR and the predicted rating level 
(the specific sound level LAeq,T plus a +3 dB correction for a potentially distinctive 
character).  Positive values in the table indicate an excess of the rating level over 
the background sound level and negative levels indicate that the rating level is 
lower than the background sound level. 
Table 7-21: BS 4142 Daytime Excess of Rating Over Background Sound Level 
Location 
Daytime 
backgrou
nd sound 
level LAF90 
Specific 
sound 
level LAeq 
Rating level LAr 
Excess of BS 4142 
rating level over 
background sound 
level 
Cefn-
betingau 
NSR1 
41 
35 
38 
-3 
Felin Wen 
Farm 
NSR2 
40 
30 
33 
-7 
Llwynhelig 
NSR3 
43 
31 
34 
-9 
Maes-eglwys 
NSR4 
40 
32 
35 
-5 
Letty Morfil 
Farm 
NSR5 
39 
29 
32 
-7 
Abergelli 
Farm 
NSR6 
40 
34 
37 
-3 
Uncertainty: The survey information available to determine the ‘representative’ background sound level values 
was limited.  Further baseline measurements will be undertaken in due course and presented in the ES. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 7: NOISE AND VIBRATION 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
7-35 
 
7.7.32 The night-time WHO based assessment results for NSR1 – NSR6 are presented in 
Table 7-22.  
Table 7-22: Changes to Ambient Sound Levels at Night 
Location 
Baseline ambient 
sound level 
(residual level) 
LAeq 
Predicted Generation 
Equipment sound 
contribution (specific 
sound level) LAeq 
Predicted total 
ambient sound level 
with proposed 
development LAeq 
Cefn-
betingau 
NSR1 
28 
35 
36 
Felin Wen 
Farm 
NSR2 
27 
30 
32 
Llwynhelig 
NSR3 
37 
31 
38 
Maes-eglwys 
NSR4 
47 
32 
47 
Letty Morfil 
Farm 
NSR5 
40 
29 
40 
Abergelli 
Farm 
NSR6 
28 
34 
35 
7.7.33 In accordance with Table 7-12 (magnitude of industrial noise during the day), the 
values in Table 7-21produce very low impact magnitudes at all six NSRs. This 
would result in a negligible significance of effect, and therefore are considered to be 
not significant in accordance with Table 7-6 and Table 7-14. 
7.7.34 In accordance with Table 7-13 (magnitude of industrial noise at night) above, the 
values in Table 7-22 produce low impact magnitudes at NSRs 1, 2, 3, 5 and 6. This 
would result in minor adverse effects in accordance with Table 7-6 and Table 7-14 
and is therefore considered not significant.   
7.7.35 At NSR 4 and NSR 5 the ambient sound levels are unchanged by the addition of 
the sound from the Project. This is due to the high pre-existing ambient levels at 
that location.  Based on the magnitude criteria in Table 7-13 the ambient sound 
level at NSR 4 both before and after inclusion of the Project produces a medium 
impact magnitude and therefore a moderate significance of effect due to the high 
pre-existing ambient levels at that location.  However the predicted total ambient 
sound level at NSR 4 and 5 is unchanged by the additional sound from the Project, 
due to the high pre-existing ambient levels, therefore the impact of the scheme on 
the sound environment is negligible.  The effect of the operation of the Generation 
Equipment is not significant.   
i. 
Rochdale Envelope 
7.7.36 
The noise and vibration assessment has been undertaken with reference to the 
Rochdale Envelope (i.e. the maximum parameters for the Project and in particular 
its main buildings and structures).  It is estimated that the potential variation in 
building locations and dimensions presented in Chapter 3: Project and Site 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 7: NOISE AND VIBRATION 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
7-36 
 
Description could result in a variation in predicted levels at the receptors of ± 1 dB 
at each location. 
Table 7-23: Worst and Best Predictions of Operational Noise Effects 
 Location 
  
Day 
Night 
Best 
Worst 
Best 
Worst 
Cefn-betingau 
NSR1 
Negligible 
Negligible 
Minor 
Minor 
Felin Wen Farm 
NSR2 
Negligible 
Negligible 
Minor 
Minor 
Llwynhelig 
NSR3 
Negligible 
Negligible 
Minor 
Minor 
Maes-eglwys 
NSR4 
Negligible 
Negligible 
Negligible1 
Negligible1 
Letty Morfil Farm 
NSR5 
Negligible 
Negligible 
Negligible2 
Negligible2 
Abergelli Farm 
NSR6 
Negligible 
Negligible 
Minor 
Minor 
1 
The contribution of the Project cannot be assessed at the target ambient sound levels are already 
exceeded by the existing ambient noise sources and the Development noise will not result in any 
change. 
2 
The Project makes no contribution to the ambient sound level therefore the development will not result in 
any change.  
7.7.37 The assessment of operational effects is based on the limits of deviation defined in 
Chapter 3: Project and Site Description, which constrains the design parameters 
of each element of the Project. As for construction, in any event mitigation would be 
integrated into the detailed design, where necessary, in order to achieve the 
appropriate noise levels. 
7.7.38 The qualitative construction noise assessment was based on the worst-case 
assumption of activities occurring at the closest part of the relevant part of the 
Project Site to each receptor for each phase of construction.   
c) 
Decommissioning 
7.7.39 At this stage no information is available on the techniques and programme 
necessary for decommissioning. 
7.7.40 However it is considered that the location, duration and nature of the operations 
associated with decommissioning will be similar to those necessary for 
construction.  Therefore it is considered that the worst case indicative assessments 
presented for the construction would also apply to decommissioning. 
7.8 
Mitigation and Monitoring  
7.8.1 
As a general rule, additional mitigation measures have been proposed where a 
significant effect is predicted to occur.  Embedded mitigation measures, which have 
been incorporated within the design of the Project or are standard practice 
measures that have been committed to are summarised in Chapter 3: Project and 
Site Description. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 7: NOISE AND VIBRATION 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
7-37 
 
a) 
Construction 
7.8.2 
The qualitative assessment predicted that there is the potential for no more than 
minor adverse noise effects at residential NSRs during construction works. 
Therefore, no further specific mitigation or monitoring measures have been 
identified at this stage. If work is required outside normal working hours, additional 
management, controls and mitigation may be required as controlled through the 
CEMP. 
b) 
Operational Noise  
7.8.3 
The noise assessment has demonstrated that noise effects as a result of the 
operation of the Project are not significant, and therefore no further mitigation or 
monitoring is proposed. 
7.9 
Residual Effects 
7.9.1 
The following tables present a summary of effects from the noise and vibration 
assessment.  The table identifies the receptor/s likely to be impacted, the level of 
effect and, where the effect is deemed to be significant. The tables include the 
mitigation proposed and the resulting residual effect.  
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 7: NOISE AND VIBRATION 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
AECOM 
7-38 
 
Table 7-24: Noise and Vibration Summary of Effects Arising during Construction Phase 
Receptor 
Description of Effect 
Classification 
of effect 
Additional Mitigation  
Classification of 
Residual Effect 
Significant / Not 
Significant 
Project 
Abergelli Farm 
(NSR6) 
Construction noise from 
the Project  
Minor adverse 
None 
Minor 
Not significant 
 
Table 7-25: Noise and Vibration Summary of Effects Arising during Operational Phase 
Receptor 
Description of Effect 
Classification of 
Effect 
Additional Mitigation 
Classification of 
Residual Effect 
Significant / Not 
Significant 
Power Generation Plant 
NSR 1-6 
Operation of the 
Generation Equipment 
Minor/Negligible 
No further mitigation 
required 
Minor/Negligible 
Not significant 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 7: NOISE AND VIBRATION 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
AECOM 
7-39 
 
a) 
Project ‘“in combination” Effects 
7.9.2 
The predicted effects of the Project upon receptors to noise and vibration are 
limited to the power generation equipment (GT, ancillaries, cooling 
equipment, transformers etc.), Electrical Connection and Gas Connection 
and as such no significant effects are predicted from the Project.  
7.10 
Cumulative Effects 
7.10.1 No receptors have been identified which could, potentially, experience 
cumulative effects generated by the construction, operational  or 
decommissioning phases of the Project in combination with other schemes 
set out in Chapter 4: Approach to Environmental Impact Assessment. 
7.11 
References 
Ref. 7.1 
World Health Organization (1999) Guidelines for Community Noise 
Ref. 7.2 
World Health Organization (2009) Night Noise Guidelines for Europe 
Ref. 7.3 
International Standards Organization (1996) ISO 9613-2 – Attenuation of 
Sound during Propagation Outdoors, Part 2: General Method of 
Calculation 
Ref. 7.4 
International Standards Organization (2010) ISO 4866:2010 – Vibration 
of Fixed Structures – Guidelines for the Measurement of Vibrations and 
Evaluation of Their Effects on Structures. 
Ref. 7.5 
Her Majesty’s Stationary Office (1990) Environmental Protection Act 
1990. 
Ref. 7.6 
Her Majesty’s Stationary Office (1974) Control of Pollution Act 1974. 
Ref. 7.7 
Her Majesty’s Stationary Office (2016) Environmental Permitting 
(England and Wales) Regulations 2016. 
Ref. 7.8 
Environment Agency (2002a) Integrated Pollution Prevention and 
Control (IPPC) H3 document Horizontal Guidance for Noise Part 2 - 
Noise assessment and Control. 
Ref. 7.9 
Environment Agency (2002b) Integrated Pollution Prevention and 
Control (IPPC) H3 document Horizontal Guidance for Noise Part 1 – 
Regulation and Permitting. 
Ref. 7.10 
Department of Energy & Climate Change (2011) NPS EN-1 Overarching 
National Policy Statement for Energy. 
Ref. 7.11 
Noise Action Plan for Wales 2013-2018. Welsh Government. 
Ref. 7.12 
Planning Policy Wales (Edition 9 November 2016) Welsh Government 
Ref. 7.13 
Technical Advice Note (TAN) 11 Noise, Welsh Government 1997 
Ref. 7.14 
British Standards Institute (2014) BS 8233 – Guidance on sound 
insulation and noise reduction for buildings 
Ref. 7.15 
British Standards Institute (2014) BS 4142 – Methods for rating and 
assessing industrial and commercial sound. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 7: NOISE AND VIBRATION 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
AECOM 
7-40 
 
Ref. 7.16 
British Standards Institute (2014) BS 5228-1:2009+A1:2014 – Code of 
practice for noise and vibration control on construction and open sites. 
Part 1: Noise. 
Ref. 7.17 
British Standards Institute (2014) BS 5228-2:2009+A1:2014 – ‘Code of 
practice for Noise and Vibration control on construction and open sites. 
Part 2: Vibration.’ 
Ref. 7.18 
Department for Communities and Local Government (2012) National 
Planning Policy Framework. 
Ref. 7.19 
Department for Communities and Local Government (DCLG) (2014) 
Planning Practice Guidance. 
Ref. 7.20 
British Standards Institute (2003) BS 7445-1 – Description and 
measurement of environmental noise. Guide to quantities and 
procedures. 
Ref. 7.21 
British Standards Institute (1991) BS 7445-2 – Description and 
measurement of environmental noise. Guide to the acquisition of data 
pertinent to land use. 
Ref. 7.22 
British Standards Institute (2008) BS 6472-1 – Guide to evaluation of 
human exposure to vibration in buildings. Vibration sources other than 
blasting. 
Ref. 7.23 
British Standards Institute (1993) BS 7385-2 – Evaluation and 
measurement for vibration in buildings. Guide to damage levels from 
groundborne vibration. 
Ref. 7.24 
Department of Transport/ Welsh Office (1998) Calculation of Road 
Traffic Noise (CRTN). 
Ref. 7.25 
Highways Agency (2011) Design Manual for Road and Bridges Volume 
11 Section 3 Part 7 HD213/11 (Revision 1) Traffic Noise and Vibration. 
Ref. 7.26 
Swansea Urban Development Plan 2008 
Ref. 7.27 
Draft Swansea Local Development Plan 2010-2025 submitted 28 July 
2017   
Ref. 7.28 
Peter Brett Associates Millbrook Power Project – ES Chapter 7 Noise 
and Vibration 2017 
 
 
 
