 
 
 
[[DMS:5539532v2:11/6/2020 10:20:41 AM 
6 November 2020 
 
DRAX FINCO PLC 
 
NOTICE OF REDEMPTION  
 
To the holders of  
Senior Secured Fixed Rate Notes due 2022 
ISIN Numbers: XS1602280833* (Rule 144A1) and XS1602280676* (Regulation S2) 
Common Codes: 160228083* (Rule 144A1) and 160228067* (Regulation S2) 
 
Drax Finco plc (the “Company”), a public limited company incorporated under the laws of England and 
Wales, gave notice that, in accordance with Sections 3.03 and 13.01 of the indenture dated as of 5 May 
2017 (as heretofore amended, supplemented or otherwise modified, the “Indenture”) among the 
Company, BNY Mellon Corporate Trustee Services Limited, as trustee (the “Trustee”), The Bank of 
New York Mellon, acting through its London Branch, as paying agent (the “Paying Agent”) and 
calculation agent, The Bank of New York Mellon SA/NV, acting through its Luxembourg Branch, as 
registrar and transfer agent, and Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch, acting through its London Branch, 
as security agent, the Company has elected to redeem (subject to satisfaction or waiver of the condition 
described below) (the “Redemption”) all of its outstanding £350,000,000 Senior Secured Fixed Rate 
Notes due 2022 (the “Fixed Rate Notes”) on the Redemption Date (as defined below). The Redemption 
Price (as defined below) will be paid to holders of record as of the Record Date (as defined 
below).  Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined herein have the meanings ascribed to such 
terms in the Indenture.  
1. The redemption date for the Fixed Rate Notes shall be 19 November 2020 (the “Redemption 
Date”). The record date (the “Record Date”) shall be 18 November 2020.  
 
2. The redemption price payment will be made in accordance with paragraph 5 (Optional 
Redemption) of the Fixed Rate Notes.  The redemption price (the “Redemption Price”) will be 
equal to: 
• 
101.0625% of the principal amount of the Fixed Rate Notes to be redeemed, 
plus 
• 
Additional Amounts, if any, and, accrued and unpaid interest from 1 
November 2020 to, but not including, the Redemption Date. 
 
3. The Fixed Rate Notes must be surrendered to the Paying Agent, to collect the Redemption 
Price. Payment of the Redemption Price will be made on or after the Redemption Date upon 
presentation and surrender of the Fixed Rate Notes at the following address: 
The Bank of New York Mellon, London Branch as Paying Agent 
One Canada Square 
London E14 5AL 
4. On the Redemption Date, the Redemption Price will become due and payable upon each 
Fixed Rate Note.  Unless the Company defaults in making the redemption payment, interest 
on the Fixed Rate Notes will cease to accrue on and after the Redemption Date and the only 
remaining right of Holders will be to receive payment of the Redemption Price in respect of 
the redeemed amount. 
 
5. The redemption of the Fixed Rate Notes is being effected pursuant to paragraph 5 (Optional 
Redemption) of the Fixed Rate Notes and in accordance with Article Three of the Indenture.  
 
 
 
 
[[DMS:5539532v2:11/6/2020 10:20:41 AM 
6. If your Fixed Rate Notes have been either lost or destroyed, please notify The Bank of New 
York Mellon, as Paying Agent, promptly. You will then be instructed as to the steps you must 
take in order to receive payment. 
 
The Paying Agent will withhold under the U.S. backup withholding rules the statutorily prescribed rate of 
any payment that is made upon redemption of a Fixed Rate Note unless the Holder, when presenting 
the Fixed Rate Notes, delivers a properly completed IRS Form W-9 or an applicable IRS Form W-8, or 
the Holder otherwise establishes an exemption from such backup withholding. 
*These ISIN and Common Code numbers are included solely for the convenience of the 
holders.  Neither the Trustee, the Company nor the Paying Agent shall be responsible for the 
selection or use of any ISIN or Common Code number, nor is any representation made as to its 
correctness or accuracy on any Fixed Rate Note or as referred to in any redemption notice. 
1 Refers to Fixed Rate Notes issued pursuant to Rule 144A under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended.  
 
2 Refers to Fixed Rate Notes issued pursuant to Regulation S under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended 
 
Enquiries: 
Drax Investor Relations: Mark Strafford 
+44 (0) 7730 763 949 
Media: 
Drax Media: Ali Lewis 
+44 (0) 7712 670 888 
Website: www.drax.com 
 
 
Cautionary Statement 
This release is for information purposes only and does not constitute a prospectus or any offer to sell 
or the solicitation of an offer to buy any security in the United States of America or in any other 
jurisdiction. Securities may not be offered or sold in the United States of America absent registration 
or an exemption from registration under the Securities Act.  
This communication is directed only at persons who (i) have professional experience in matters 
relating to investments falling within Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 
(Financial Promotion) Order 2005 as amended (the “Order”), (ii) are persons falling within Article 
49(2)(a) to (d) (“high net worth companies, unincorporated associations, etc.”) of the Order, (iii) are 
persons who are outside the United Kingdom, or (iv) are persons to whom an invitation or inducement 
to engage in investment activity (within the meaning of section 21 of the Financial Services and 
Markets Act 2000) in connection with the issue or sale of any notes may otherwise lawfully be 
communicated or caused to be communicated (all such persons together being referred to as 
“relevant persons”). 
Any investment activity to which this communication relates will only be available to, and will only be 
engaged in with, relevant persons. Any person who is not a relevant person should not act or rely on 
this document or any of its contents. 
 
 
[[DMS:5539532v2:11/6/2020 10:20:41 AM 
This announcement is not a public offering in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg or an offer of securities 
to the public under Regulation (EU) 2017/1129, and any amendments thereto. 
Manufacturer target market (MiFID II product governance) is eligible counterparties and professional 
clients only (all distribution channels). No PRIIPs key information document (KID) has been prepared 
as the Notes are not available to retail investors in the European Economic Area. 
Forward Looking Statements 
This release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the securities laws of certain 
applicable jurisdictions. These forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-
looking terminology, including, but not limited to, terms such as “aim”, “anticipate”, “assume”, 
“believe”, “continue”, “could”, “estimate”, “expect”, “forecast”, “guidance”, “intend”, “may”, “outlook”, 
“plan”, “predict”, “project”, “should”, “will” or “would” or, in each case, their negative, or other variations 
or comparable terminology. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, all 
statements other than statements of historical facts and include statements regarding Drax’s 
intentions, beliefs or current expectations concerning, among other things, Drax’s future financial 
conditions and performance, results of operations and liquidity, strategy, plans, objectives, prospects, 
growth, goals and targets, future developments in the markets in which Drax participate or are 
seeking to participate, and anticipated regulatory changes in the industry in which Drax operate. By 
their nature, forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other 
factors because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that may or may not occur in the 
future. Readers are cautioned that forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future 
performance and are based on numerous assumptions. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers 
should not rely on forward looking statements as a prediction of actual results. 
END 
 
