 
 
www.isio.com 
Drax Power Group of the 
Electricity Supply Pension 
Scheme 
Implementation Statement 
June 2021 
 
Document classification: Public 
June 2021 
 
© Isio Group Limited/Isio Services Limited 2021. All rights reserved 
Document classification: Public  |  2 
 
Background 
The Department for Work and Pensions (‘DWP’) is increasing regulation to improve 
disclosure of financially material risks. This regulatory change recognises 
Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) factors as financially material and 
pension schemes need to consider how these factors are managed as part of their 
fiduciary duty. The regulatory changes require that schemes detail their policies in 
their statement of investment principles (SIP) and demonstrate adherence to these 
policies in an implementation report. 
Statement of Investment Principles (SIP)  
The Group updated its SIP in to in response to the DWP regulation to cover: 
• Policies for managing financially material considerations including ESG factors 
and climate change. 
• Policies on the stewardship of the investments. 
The SIP can be found online at the following web address: 
https://www.drax.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/09/001-Drax-SIP-Sep-2020-
web-version.pdf 
Changes to the SIP are detailed on page 6. 
Implementation Report 
This implementation report is to provide evidence that the Group continues to 
follow and act on the principles outlined in the SIP. This report details: 
• Actions the Group has taken to manage financially material risks and implement 
the key policies in its SIP. 
• The current policy and approach with regards to ESG and the actions taken with 
managers on managing ESG risks. 
• The extent to which the Group has followed policies on engagement covering 
engagement actions with its fund managers and in turn the engagement activity 
of the fund managers with the companies in the investment mandate. 
• Voting behaviour covering the reporting year up to 31 March 2021 for and on 
behalf of the Group including the most significant votes cast by the Group or on 
its behalf. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Background and 
Implementation 
Statement 
 
© Isio Group Limited/Isio Services Limited 2021. All rights reserved 
Document classification: Public  |  3 
 
 
Summary of key actions undertaken over the Group reporting year 
• 
There were no major strategic changes over the 12 months to 31 March 
2021. During the year, there were a number of actions to rebalance the 
Group’s assets towards their strategic benchmark weights and increase 
the expected return of the portfolio. During Q1 2021 £20.7m was 
disinvested from the Group’s LDI holdings and used to top up the Cardano 
mandate. 
• 
The Group’s absolute return bond holdings are primarily used to meet 
ongoing cashflow requirements. During the year, these holdings were 
topped up to their 3% target allocation in order to ensure sufficient liquidity 
in the portfolio. 
Implementation Statement 
This report demonstrates that Drax Power Group of the Electricity Supply Pension 
Scheme has adhered to its investment principles and its policies for managing 
financially material consideration including ESG factors and climate change. 
 
 
© Isio Group Limited/Isio Services Limited 2021. All rights reserved 
Document classification: Public  |  4 
 
Risk / Policy 
Definition 
Policy 
Actions and details on 
changes to policy 
Interest rates 
and inflation 
The risk of mismatch 
between the value of the 
Group assets and present 
value of liabilities from 
changes in interest rates and 
inflation expectations. 
To hedge c.75% of these 
risks on a gilts +0% basis. 
  
The Group’s hedging 
arrangements are reviewed 
periodically to ensure they 
remain appropriate.  
 
Liquidity 
Difficulties in raising 
sufficient cash when 
required without adversely 
impacting the fair market 
value of the investment.  
  
To maintain a sufficient 
allocation to liquid assets so 
that there is a prudent buffer 
to pay members benefits as 
they fall due (including 
transfer values), and to 
provide collateral to the LDI 
manager. 
The Group holds an 
allocation to the L&G 
Absolute Return Bond Fund 
in order to maintain 
sufficient liquidity to meet 
ongoing cashflow 
requirements. During the 
period, the Fund was topped 
up to its 3% target allocation. 
Market 
Experiencing losses due to 
factors that affect the overall 
performance of the financial 
markets. 
To remain appropriately 
diversified and hedge away 
any unrewarded risks, where 
practicable.  
No changes to policy during 
the period. 
Credit 
Default on payments due as 
part of a financial security 
contract. 
  
To diversify this risk by 
investing in a range of credit 
markets across different 
geographies and sectors. 
To appoint investment 
managers who actively 
manage this risk by seeking 
to invest only in debt 
securities where the yield 
available sufficiently 
compensates the Group for 
the risk of default. 
No changes to policy during 
the period. 
Environmental, 
Social and 
Governance 
Exposure to Environmental, 
Social and Governance 
factors, including but not 
limited to climate change, 
which can impact the 
performance of the Group’s 
investments. 
To appoint managers who 
account for ESG factors as a 
part of their investment 
process. 
The Group Trustees monitor 
the managers in this regard 
on an ongoing basis. 
Further detail provided later 
in this report. 
Managing risks and policy 
actions   
 
© Isio Group Limited/Isio Services Limited 2021. All rights reserved 
Document classification: Public  |  5 
 
Currency 
The potential for adverse 
currency movements to have 
an impact on the Group’s 
investments. 
Hedge the currency risk on 
direct lending assets as 
much as practically possible. 
No changes to policy during 
the period. 
Non-financial 
Any factor that is not 
expected to have a financial 
impact on the Group’s 
investments. 
Non-financial matters are 
not taken into account in the 
selection, retention or 
realisation of investments. 
No changes to policy during 
the period. 
 
 
 
 
 
© Isio Group Limited/Isio Services Limited 2021. All rights reserved 
Document classification: Public  |  6 
 
 
Policies added to the SIP 
 
Date updated: 23 September 2020 
 
How the investment managers are incentivised 
to align their investment strategy and decisions 
with the Group Trustees’ policies. 
• 
The Group Trustees invest in pooled funds 
which are aligned to the strategic objective. It 
is recognised that due to the nature of pooled 
funds, there is not scope for these funds to be 
specifically tailored to the Group Trustees’ 
policies.  
• 
The Group’s mandate with Permira is subject 
to a performance related fee. 
How the investment managers are incentivised 
to make decisions based on assessments of 
medium to long-term financial and non-financial 
performance of an issuer of debt or equity and to 
engage with them to improve performance in the 
medium to long-term. 
• 
The Group Trustees review the investment 
managers’ performance relative to medium 
and long-term objectives as documented in 
the investment management agreements. 
These objectives being medium-long term in 
nature mean that the investment managers 
position their portfolios accordingly.  
• 
The Group Trustees monitor the investment 
managers’ engagement and voting activity on 
an annual basis as part of the annual 
investment meeting. By doing this, it indirectly 
incentivises the investment managers to 
make decisions based on non-financial 
information. 
How the method (and time horizon) of the 
evaluation of investment managers’ performance 
and the remuneration for their services are in line 
with the Group Trustees’ policies. 
• 
The Group Trustees review the performance 
of the Group’s investments on a net of cost 
basis to ensure a true measurement of 
performance versus investment objectives. 
• 
The Group Trustees evaluate performance 
over the time period stated in the investment 
managers’ performance objective, which is 
typically 3 to 5 years. 
• 
Quarterly investment performance reports are 
produced documenting the performance of 
each of the Group’s investment managers.  
• 
Investment manager fees are reviewed 
periodically to make sure that they remain 
competitive. 
Changes to the SIP 
 
© Isio Group Limited/Isio Services Limited 2021. All rights reserved 
Document classification: Public  |  7 
 
The method for monitoring portfolio turnover 
costs incurred by investment managers and how 
they define and monitor targeted portfolio 
turnover or turnover range. 
• 
The investment managers are incentivised to 
minimise costs as they are measured on a net 
of cost basis. 
• 
The Group Trustees monitor portfolio 
turnover costs indirectly as part of its ongoing 
monitoring of the Group’s assets and 
investment managers. 
• 
Where relevant, portfolio turnover costs are 
considered periodically, particularly for the 
Cardano mandate which is expected to be 
more active in its asset allocation and hence 
experience higher turnover over time. The 
mandate also represents a sizeable 
proportion of overall Group assets (37% target 
allocation) whereby excessive turnover can 
have a reasonable impact on the overall 
Group asset return. 
The duration of the Group’s arrangements with 
the investment managers 
• 
The Group Trustees are aware of the duration 
of the Group’s arrangements with each of its 
investment managers (e.g. as part of ongoing 
monitoring). Ultimately, however, the duration 
of each arrangement is determined by its 
suitability and contribution to meeting the 
Group’s overall investment objectives. 
• 
It is also considered in the context of the type 
of fund the Group invests in.  
o 
For open ended funds, the duration 
is flexible, and the Group Trustees 
will from time-to-time consider the 
appropriateness of these 
investments and whether they 
should continue to be held. 
o 
For closed ended funds, or funds 
with a lock-in period, the Group 
Trustees ensure the timeframe of the 
investment or lock-in is in line with 
the Group Trustee’s objectives and 
the Group’s liquidity requirements. 
 
 
 
© Isio Group Limited/Isio Services Limited 2021. All rights reserved 
Document classification: Public  |  8 
 
ESG as a financially material risk 
The SIP describes the Group’s policy regarding ESG as a financially material risk. 
The Group has agreed a more detailed ESG policy which describes how it monitors 
and engages with the investment managers regarding the ESG polices. This page 
details the Group’s ESG policy. 
 
Current Policy  
 
Areas for 
engagement 
Method for monitoring and 
engagement 
Circumstances for 
additional monitoring and 
engagement 
Environmental, 
Social, Corporate 
Governance factors 
and the  
exercising of rights 
• 
The Group Trustees’ investment 
managers provide annual reports 
on how they have engaged with 
issuers regarding social, 
environmental and corporate 
governance issues. 
• 
The Group Trustees receive 
information from their 
investment advisers on the 
investment managers’ 
approaches to engagement. 
• 
The manager has 
not acted in 
accordance with 
their policies and 
frameworks. 
• 
The manager’s 
policies are not in 
line with the Group 
Trustees’ policies in 
this area. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Current ESG policy and 
approach  
 
© Isio Group Limited/Isio Services Limited 2021. All rights reserved 
Document classification: Public  |  9 
 
Areas of assessment 
The below table outlines the areas which the Group’s investment managers are 
assessed on when evaluating their ESG policies and engagements. The Group 
Trustees intend to review the Group’s ESG policies and engagements periodically 
to ensure they remain fit for purpose. 
 
Risk 
Management 
1. Integrating ESG factors, including climate change risk, represents an 
opportunity to increase the effectiveness of the overall risk management of 
the Group. 
2. ESG factors can be financially material and managing these risks forms part 
of the fiduciary duty of the Group Trustees. 
Approach / 
Framework 
3. The Group Trustees should understand how asset managers make ESG 
decisions and will seek to understand how ESG is integrated by each asset 
manager. 
4. ESG factors are relevant to investment decisions in all asset classes. 
5. Managers investing in companies’ debt, as well as equity, have a 
responsibility to engage with management on ESG factors. 
Reporting & 
Monitoring 
6. Ongoing monitoring and reporting of how asset managers manage ESG 
factors is important. 
7. ESG factors are dynamic and continually evolving; therefore the Group 
Trustees will receive training as required to develop their knowledge.  
8. The role of the Group’s asset managers is prevalent in integrating ESG 
factors; the Group Trustees will, alongside the investment advisor, monitor 
ESG in relation to the asset managers’ investment decisions.  
Voting & 
Engagement 
9. The Group Trustees will seek to understand each asset managers’ approach 
to voting and engagement when reviewing the asset managers’ approach. 
10. Engaging is more effective in seeking to initiate change than disinvesting. 
Collaboration 11. Asset managers should sign up and comply with common codes and 
practices such as the UNPRI & Stewardship code. If they do not sign up, they 
should have a valid reason why. 
12. Asset managers should engage with other stakeholders and market 
participants to encourage best practice on various issues such as board 
structure, remuneration, sustainability, risk management and debtholder 
rights. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
© Isio Group Limited/Isio Services Limited 2021. All rights reserved 
Document classification: Public  |  10 
 
Isio engaged with the Group’s investment managers over the year on behalf of the 
Group Trustees to discuss their ESG policies and set actions and priorities. Full 
details of each manager's approach to ESG for each of the Group's underlying 
assets can be found in an Impact Assessment Report. The Trustees have not 
undertaken an Impact Assessment Report at this stage but are reviewing their 
approach to ESG factor monitoring at the annual investment meeting in Q4 2021, 
after which Impact Assessment Reports may form part of their ongoing monitoring. 
As the Group invests in pooled vehicles accessed via fund managers the managers 
provided details on their engagement actions, including a summary of the 
engagements by category for the 12 month period to the end of March 2021. 
 
Fund name 
Engagement 
summary 
Commentary 
Cardano 
Solution 
Fund 12 
Total direct 
engagements: 0 
 
Given the fund of funds structure of the Group’s mandate 
with Cardano, there were no direct engagements between 
Cardano and the underlying portfolio companies over the 
reporting period. Instead Cardano have provided 
engagement data for their external investment managers. 
Cardano engage with all investment managers regularly 
through their manager research team, operational due 
diligence team and as part of the delivery of Implementation 
Statements for their clients.  
 
Examples of significant engagements from the external 
investment managers include: 
 
Crake – In June 2020 Crake held a meeting with the senior 
management of Glencore to discuss the company’s plans 
regarding their exposure to coal. The company commented 
that they had a positive outlook on coal and saw a steady 
demand for it in emerging markets.  However, it was noted 
that coal production was capped and that no new capacity 
was planned, and that if at any point Glencore’s coal 
exposure became an issue with their investor base they 
would consider further limiting their exposure. Recently the 
company provided further assurances that their exposure to 
coal will be declining over the future years as coal mines 
come to the end of their lives. 
 
Amia Capital – In June 2020 Amia Capital led the formation 
of the External Bondholder Committee in relation to their 
debt holdings in a Sub-Saharan sovereign. The Committee 
was comprised of fourteen international financial institutions, 
and formally published a response to a consent solicitation 
request in September 2020 which outlined the focus on 
achieving a restructuring outcome in line with the Principles 
Engagement  
 
© Isio Group Limited/Isio Services Limited 2021. All rights reserved 
Document classification: Public  |  11 
 
for Stable Capital Flows and Fair Debt Restructuring. These 
Principles include governance aspects such as: transparency 
and timely flow of information, open dialogue, good faith 
actions, and fair treatment among creditor losses. 
Permira 
Credit 
Solutions II 
Total 
engagements: 3  
Permira’s position as lenders means that they often rely on 
the equity sponsor to report ESG-related concerns and lead 
ESG improvements. However, Pemira maintain ongoing 
contact with the management teams of their portfolio 
companies and are able to leverage their influence when 
applicable. 
Examples of significant engagements include: 
Paperchase – During the year Permira took ownership of the 
company, thereby increasing their engagement rights in 
comparison to their previous position as a lender. 
Management recognises that sustainability should form a 
key part of Paperchase’s new strategy. Permira have also 
introduced external advisors to support the company on the 
development of its sustainability strategy. This is due to be 
developed further in H2 2021, and Permira plan to continue 
engaging with the company to discuss next steps. 
David Brown – Permira engaged with the company to 
discuss its ESG strategy. An internal team at the company is 
developing this strategy and approach, and an ESG 
committee has been formed which includes senior members 
of the team. The company is also planning to release an 
external ESG report by the end of 2021. Permira intend to 
continue engaging with the company as they develop and 
roll out the strategy. 
Permira 
Credit 
Solutions IV 
Total 
engagements: 0  
Permira’s position as lenders also limits their engagement 
power with respect to the PCS IV Fund.  
Although there were no formal engagements over the period, 
during 2020 and early 2021 Permira issued an ESG-related 
data request to 27 portfolio companies in the PCS IV Fund 
for the first time. Information relating to GHG emissions, 
diversity and ESG policy-related questions were included in 
this request. Going forward, Permira intend to issue an 
annual ESG request to all portfolio companies the PCS IV 
Fund. 
L&G LDI 
Funds 
 
 
 
Total 
engagements: 0 
L&G were not able to provide the requested engagement 
data. However, this is something the manager is looking to 
implement going forwards, and Isio remains in contact with 
L&G surrounding the firm’s engagement reporting.  
L&G’s Investment Stewardship team manage the voting and 
engagement across all funds, leveraging all possible capital 
to maximise effectiveness. The team also regularly engages 
with regulators, governments and other industry participants 
to address long term structural issues, aiming to stay ahead 
of regulatory changes and adopt best practice. 
L&G Active 
Corporate 
Bond All 
Stocks Index 
Fund  
L&G Long 
Lease 
Property 
Fund 
L&G 
Absolute 
Return Bond 
Fund 
 
© Isio Group Limited/Isio Services Limited 2021. All rights reserved 
Document classification: Public  |  12 
 
As the Group invests via fund managers the managers provided details on their 
voting actions including a summary of the activity covering the reporting year up to 
31 March 2021. The managers also provided examples of any significant votes.  
 
Fund 
name 
Voting summary 
Examples of significant votes 
Cardano 
Solution 
Fund 12 
Proposals voted: 0 
 
As Cardano holds no direct 
equity investments, they do not 
have voting rights for the 
underlying portfolio companies. 
Instead, Cardano provided voting 
data and examples of significant 
votes cast for the external 
investment managers they deem 
as being ‘high focus’ in relation 
to ESG (meaning ESG factors 
could materially impact the risk 
and return profile of the 
underlying manager’s strategy). 
Examples of significant votes cast by the external 
investment managers include: 
 
Crake – Crake use third party services as part of their 
approach to voting, and use ISS Proxy Exchange to 
highlight proposed votes at the companies they are 
invested with in which have ESG implications. During the 
period, Crake voted against the approval of an underlying 
portfolio company’s remuneration policy. Their view was 
that the incentive framework did not have enough 
performance conditions and was unnecessarily complex. 
Crake also believed that Executive Directors would be 
eligible to receive excessive payments including a lump 
sum in the event of a change of control. 
 
Egerton – Egerton voted in favour of a shareholder 
proposal for a climate assessment against the 
recommendation of management. Egerton’s view was that 
a vote against management was justified on the grounds of 
ESG considerations. Egerton also noted that they may vote 
against companies that do not publicly disclose their 
carbon and other GHG emissions and do not have a 
credible plan for their reduction. 
 
Full voting data for external managers Cardano have identified as ‘high focus’ is as follows: 
 
Manager 
Potential 
votes 
Proportion of 
votes cast 
Proportion 
of votes cast 
for 
Proportion 
of votes 
cast against 
Proportion 
of votes 
abstained 
AQR 
5,448 
95% 
93% 
7% 
- 
CCAM 
296 
100% 
100% 
- 
- 
Crake 
371 
27% 
94% 
6% 
- 
Egerton Capital 
500 
64% 
94% 
- 
6% 
Invesco GTR 
5,332 
98% 
93% 
6% 
1% 
Sands Capital 
381 
94% 
92% 
5% 
3% 
 
Voting (for equity/multi 
asset funds only) 
 
© Isio Group Limited/Isio Services Limited 2021. All rights reserved 
Document classification: Public  |  13 
 
 
 
www.isio.com 
Isio Services Limited is authorised and regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority FRN 922376. 
Document classification: Public 
The information contained herein is of a general nature and is not intended 
to address the circumstances of any particular individual or entity. Although 
we endeavour to provide accurate and timely information, there can be no 
guarantee that such information is accurate as of the date it is received or 
that it will continue to be accurate in the future. No one should act on such 
information without appropriate professional advice after a thorough 
examination of the particular situation. 
