 
 
  
Abergelli Power Project  
No Significant Effects Report 
 
 
 
Abergelli Power Limited 
December 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 Abergelli Power Station – No Significant Effects Report 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
1-1 
 
 
Document Control 
Document Properties 
Organisation 
AECOM 
Author 
Ursula Jones and Milly Kent 
Approved by (1st checker) 
James Riley 
Approved by (2nd checker) 
Max Wade 
Title 
No Significant Effects Report 
Document Reference 
N/A 
Version History 
Date 
Version 
Status 
Description/Changes 
30/11/2017 
V1.0 
Draft 
First draft  
13/12/2017 
V1.8 
Draft 
Draft incorporating comments 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prepared for: 
Abergelli Power Limited 
 
 
Prepared by: 
 AECOM Limited 
3rd Floor 
Portwall Place 
Portwall Lane 
Bristol 
BS1 6NA 
UK 
 
T: +44 117 901 7000 
aecom.com 
  
 
 
 
© 2016 AECOM Limited. All Rights Reserved.   
This document has been prepared by AECOM Limited (“AECOM”) for sole use of our client (the “Client”) in accordance 
with generally accepted consultancy principles, the budget for fees and the terms of reference agreed between AECOM 
and the Client. Any information provided by third parties and referred to herein has not been checked or verified by 
AECOM, unless otherwise expressly stated in the document. No third party may rely upon this document without the prior 
and express written agreement of AECOM. 
  
 
 Abergelli Power Station – No Significant Effects Report 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
1-2 
 
CONTENTS 
1. 
No Significant Effects Report ............................................................................. 3 
1.1 Introduction ............................................................................................... 3 
1.2 Designated Sites Scoped into HRA Screening .......................................... 8 
1.3 Screening for Likely Significant Effects ................................................... 12 
1.4 Summary of Likely Significant Effects Screening .................................... 19 
1.5 In-Combination Effects ............................................................................ 20 
1.6 Conclusion .............................................................................................. 26 
References ............................................................................................................... 27 
Figure 1.1 Location of Project Site and Natura 2000 Sites ....................................... 28 
Appendix A Air Quality Modelling: Table 1-9, Table 1-10 and Table 1-11 .................. 29 
Appendix B HRA Screening Matrices for the Abergelli Power Project ...................... 32 
 
TABLES 
Table 1-1:  Project Components ................................................................................. 5 
Table 1-2: Parameters for Assessment  ..................................................................... 7 
Table 1-3: Crymlyn Bog SAC and Ramsar ................................................................. 8 
Table 1-4: Carmarthen Bay SAC ................................................................................ 9 
Table 1-5: Burry Inlet SPA and Ramsar .................................................................... 10 
Table 1-6: Potential Effects of Air Quality – NOx Daily and Annual Process Contributions 
and Predicted Environmental Concentrations, and Process Contributions and Predicted 
Environmental Concentrations as a % of the Air Quality Standard ........................... 17 
Table 1-7: Potential Effects of Air Quality – Nitrogen and Nitrogen Acid ................... 18 
Table 1-8: Projects Considered In-Combination ....................................................... 21 
Table 1-9: Process Contributions of NOx ................................................................. 29 
Table 1-10: Process Contributions, Critical Loads and Predicted Environmental 
Concentration of Nitrogen ........................................................................................ 30 
Table 1-11: Process Contributions, Critical Loads and Predicted Environmental 
Concentration of Nitrogen Acid ................................................................................. 31 
 
PLATES 
Plate 1.1: The legislative basis for Appropriate Assessment ...................................... 4 
 
FIGURES 
Figure 1.1 
Locations of Project Site and Natura 2000 Sites 
APPENDICES 
Appendix A Air Quality Modelling: Table 1-9 Process Contributions of NOx; Table 1-10 
Process Contributions, Critical Loads and Predicted Environmental Concentration of 
Nitrogen; Table 1-11 Process Contributions, Critical Loads and Predicted Environmental 
Concentration of Nitrogen Acidity 
Appendix B HRA Screening Matrices for the Abergelli Power Project 
 
 
 Abergelli Power Station – No Significant Effects Report 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
1-3 
 
1. 
No Significant Effects Report 
1.1 
Introduction 
a) Background 
1.1.1 
This report represents a Habitats Regulations Assessment (HRA) Screening 
Document prepared as part of the Environmental Impact Assessment for Abergelli 
Power Station (hereafter referred to as the ‘Project).  
1.1.2 
The report is designed to serve two key functions: 
 
To assist Abergelli Power Limited (APL, hereafter referred to as the Applicant) 
by making it easier to undertake and consult on a Habitat Regulations 
Assessment; and,  
 
To act as a confirmatory checklist that can be used to ensure that the relevant 
information needed for a Habitats Regulations Assessment has been 
undertaken. 
b) The Habitats Directive and Habitat Regulations  
1.1.3 
The need for an assessment of impacts on Natura 2000 sites (the collective name 
for European designated sites, including Special Protection Areas (SPA) and 
Special Areas of Conservation (SAC)) is set out within Article 6 of the Habitats 
Directive, and transposed into UK law by the Habitats Regulations.  The ultimate 
aim of the Habitats Directive 1992 is to “maintain or restore, at favourable 
conservation status, natural habitats and species of wild fauna and flora of 
Community interest” (Article 2(2)).  This aim relates to habitats and species, not the 
European Sites themselves, although the European Sites have a significant role in 
delivering favourable conservation status. 
1.1.4 
It is a requirement of the Habitats Directive 1992 and the Conservation of Habitats 
and Species Regulations 2017 (the 'Habitats Regulations' (Plate 1.1)) that plans 
and projects are subject to ‘Appropriate Assessment’ if it is likely that they will lead 
to significant adverse effects on a Natura 2000 site, either alone or in combination 
with other plans or projects. It is the duty of the competent authority (the Secretary 
of State in relation to the Project) to make the determination as to whether 
significant adverse effects are likely and, if necessary, to then undertake the 
Appropriate Assessment. The promoter of the Project can be asked to supply 
information to inform those assessments and decisions.  
1.1.5 
The Habitats Directive applies the precautionary principle to European Sites. 
Consent should only be granted for plans and projects once the relevant competent 
authority has ascertained either than no likely significant effects will arise or 
(through the Appropriate Assessment) that there will be no adverse effect on the 
integrity of the European Site(s) in question.  Where an appropriate assessment 
has been carried out and results in an assessment of adverse effects on integrity, 
or if uncertainty remains, consent must only be granted if there are no alternative 
 Abergelli Power Station – No Significant Effects Report 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
1-4 
 
solutions and there are imperative reasons of over-riding public interest (IROPI) for 
the development, and compensatory measures have been secured.  
1.1.6 
Throughout this report, the term 'Habitat Regulations Assessment' is used to refer 
to the overall procedure required by the Habitat Regulations, as described above.   
1.1.7 
All the European sites referenced in this document are shown in Figure 1.  
Plate 1.1: The legislative basis for Appropriate Assessment 
 
1.1.8 
Preparation of this report has involved reference to Planning Inspectorate Advice 
Note Ten: Habitat Regulations Assessment relevant to Nationally Significant 
Infrastructure Projects (January 2016).  
1.1.9 
An updated version of Advice Note Ten was released by the Planning Inspectorate 
mid-December (publication dated November 2017).  This No Significant Effects 
Report will be updated in-line with the Advice Note prior to DCO submission.  
1.1.10 PINS Advice Note Ten requires an evaluation of the potential for the Project to 
require other consents which could also require Habitats Regulations Assessment 
by different competent authorities, and a statement as to whether the DCO 
boundary of the project overlaps with devolved administrations or other European 
Economic Area (EEA) States.  
1.1.11 It is confirmed that the DCO boundary of the project does not overlap with areas of 
devolved administrations or with those of other EEA States.  
1.1.12 The following competent authorities will need to conduct an HRA:  
 
the Secretary of State, in relation to the DCO application; and, 
 
Natural Resources Wales (NRW), in relation to the environmental permit 
application.  
 
 
Habitats Directive 1992 
Article 6 (3) states that: 
“Any plan of project not directly connected with or necessary to the 
management of the site but likely to have a significant effect thereon, either 
individually or in combination with other plans or projects, shall be subject to 
appropriate assessment of its implications for the site in view of the site’s 
conservation objectives.” 
 
Conservation of Habitats and Species Regulations 2017 
Regulation 63 states that: 
“A competent authority, before deciding to … give any consent for a plan or 
project which is likely to have a significant effect on a European site … shall 
make an appropriate assessment of the implications for the site in view of that 
sites conservation objectives… The authority shall agree to the plan or project 
only after having ascertained that it not adversely affect the integrity of the 
European site”.
 Abergelli Power Station – No Significant Effects Report 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
1-5 
 
c) Project Description 
1.1.13 The Project Site is approximately 30.66ha and is located near to the village of 
Felindre, Swansea (see Figure 1). The Abergelli Power Project development 
proposals are for a proposed 299MW Open Cycle Gas Turbine (OCGT) power 
station. The Abergelli Power Project comprises the following principal elements:  
 
A new Power Generation Plant;  
 
A new Electrical Connection; and,  
 
A new Gas Connection.  
1.1.14 The Power Generation Plant, Gas Connection and Electrical Connection together 
with their construction access/laydown and future maintenance access/laydown 
requirements are referred to as the Project.  
1.1.15 A detailed description of the Project is provided in Chapter 3 of the Preliminary 
Environmental Information Report (PEIR) (Ref. 1.1). A summary is provided in 
Table 1-1 below.  
Table 1-1:  Project Components 
Project 
Component 
Description 
Consenting Route 
Power 
Generation 
Plant 
An Open Cycle Gas Turbine (OCGT) 
peaking power generating station, 
fuelled by natural gas and capable of 
providing a rated electrical output of 
up to 299 Megawatts (MW). The 
Power Generation Plant comprises: 
 Generating equipment including 
one Gas Turbine Generator with 
one exhaust gas flue stack and 
Balance of Plant (BOP) (together 
referred to as the ‘Generating 
Equipment’) which are located 
within the ‘Generating Equipment 
Site’; 
 An Access Road to the Project 
Site from the B4489 which lies to 
the west, formed by upgrading an 
existing access road between the 
B4489 junction and the Swansea 
North Substation (the Substation) 
and constructing a new section of 
access road from the Substation 
to the Generating Equipment 
Site; and 
 A 
temporary 
construction 
Development 
Consent 
Order 
(DCO) pursuant to the Planning Act 
2008 
 Abergelli Power Station – No Significant Effects Report 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
1-6 
 
Project 
Component 
Description 
Consenting Route 
compound for the storage of 
materials, plant and equipment 
as 
well 
as 
containing 
site 
accommodation 
and 
welfare 
facilities, temporary car parking  
and 
temporary 
fencing 
(the 
Laydown Area. A small area 
within the Laydown Area will be 
retained 
permanently 
(the 
Maintenance Compound). 
 Ecological Mitigation Area – area 
for potential reptile translocation 
and 
ecological 
enhancement. 
Location 
and 
area 
to 
be 
confirmed post-consultation once 
discussions with NRW and CCS 
have been undertaken. Area 
likely to be commensurate with 
the extent of mitigation required 
and within the Order Limits of the 
Project.  
 Permanent parking and drainage 
to include: a site foul, oily water 
and 
surface 
water 
drainage 
system.  
Gas 
Connection 
The Gas Connection will be in the 
form 
of 
a 
new 
above 
ground 
installation (AGI) and underground 
gas 
pipeline 
connection 
(the 
Pipeline). This is to bring natural gas 
to the Generating Equipment from the 
National Transmission System. The 
Pipeline will follow an approximate 
north-south route corridor, between 
the National Transmission System 
south of Rhyd-y-pandy Road and the 
Generating Equipment Site.  
The 
Gas 
Connection 
will 
be 
consented through the Town and 
County Planning Act (TCPA) and is 
not part of the DCO Application. 
Though this Project element is not 
part of the DCO Application, APL is 
likely to seek powers of compulsory 
acquisition over the land required 
for the Gas Connection.  
Electrical 
Connection 
This is an underground electrical 
cable to export power from the 
Generating Equipment to the National 
Grid Electricity Transmission System 
(NETS).  
The Electrical Connection will be 
consented 
through 
Permitted 
Development and is not part of the 
DCO 
Application. 
Though 
this 
Project element is not part of the 
DCO Application, APL is likely to 
seek 
powers 
of 
compulsory 
acquisition over the land required 
 Abergelli Power Station – No Significant Effects Report 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
1-7 
 
Project 
Component 
Description 
Consenting Route 
for the Electrical Connection.  
 
1.1.16 Table 1-2 provides indicative maximum and minimum dimensions for the main plant 
items which will be present at the Generating Equipment Site. 
Table 1-2: Parameters for Assessment  
Building or Structure 
Maximum 
Height (m)1
Minimum 
Height (m) 
Maximum 
Length (m) 
Maximum 
Width (m) 
Gas 
turbine 
generator 
(including 
gas 
turbine, 
generator, air inlet filter house, 
air inlet duct, exhaust diffuser, 
and auxiliaries such as lube oil 
system, air dryers, fuel gas filter 
package, instrument air system, 
compressor washing)   
27 
- 
50 
40 
Exhaust 
gas 
emission 
flue 
stack  
45 
35 
- 
12 
Control room/office/ workshop  
7 
- 
45 
25 
Emergency Generator 
6 
- 
13 
5 
Gas receiving station (including 
compression 
station, 
emergency generator, Joule-
Thompson boilers and other 
auxiliary control cabinets))  
10 
- 
70 
50 
Gatehouse  
4.5 
- 
9 
8 
Demineralised water tank  
5 
- 
5 
5 
Fire water tank  
15 
- 
15 
15 
Above ground installation (AGI)  
3 
- 
85 
35 
Minimum 
offtake 
connection 
(MOC)  
3 
- 
35 
35 
Pipeline 
inspection 
gauge 
facility  
3 
- 
35 
35 
Fin Fan Coolers  
10 
28 
- 
14 
Transformer 
compound 
(including generator step up 
transformer, unit and other 
15 
- 
65 
60 
                                                                                                                     
1 Height is metres above site level of approximately 31.5 m above ordnance datum unless otherwise stated. 
 Abergelli Power Station – No Significant Effects Report 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
1-8 
 
Building or Structure 
Maximum 
Height (m)1
Minimum 
Height (m) 
Maximum 
Length (m) 
Maximum 
Width (m) 
transformers, 
connection 
to 
underground 
cable 
and 
associated equipment.) 
1.1.17 The need and alternatives for the Project are discussed in detail Chapter 5 
Alternatives Considered  of the PEIR (Ref. 1.1).  
1.2 
Designated Sites Scoped into HRA Screening 
1.2.1 
Table 1-3, Table 1-4 and Table 1-5 provide a description of all the Natura 2000 sites 
within 10km of the Power Generation Plant of the Project and which are scoped 
into the HRA Screening.  The tables set out the distance of the relevant Natura 
2000 site from the proposed stack, and justification for inclusion in the HRA 
Screening. Using professional judgement it is considered that Natura 2000 sites 
located more than 10km are at no risk of being affected by the Project, either alone 
or in combination with other projects and plans. This approach is in line with the 
consultation response received from NRW, in which Natura 2000 sites located 
more than 10km from the Project can be dismissed. 
Table 1-3: Crymlyn Bog SAC and Ramsar 
Summary of Designating Features  
Justification for 
Inclusion in HRA 
Screening 
Crymlyn Bog SAC and Ramsar  
6.7km south-east 
Crymlyn Bog, which covers approximately 299ha, comprises floodplain-valley 
mire located within a lowland coastal context and is the most extensive wetland of 
its type in Wales. The mire features a complex mosaic of vegetation types, 
supporting examples of swamp, tall herb fen, fen meadow and carr communities. 
The site supports an exceptionally wide range of rich and poor fen communities, 
some of which bear a close floristic affinity to certain floodplain mires in East 
Anglia. The presence of significant areas of saw sedge (Cladium mariscus) 
swamp is notable in extensive stands of this uncommon vegetation type, 
occurring at only three other sites in Wales. Crymlyn Bog is part of a larger inter-
estuarine complex which includes the adjacent Pant y Sais fen. 
SAC 
Annex I habitats that are a primary reason for selection of 
this site:  
 
Transition mires and quaking bogs; and,  
 
Calcareous fens with Cladium mariscus and species of 
the Caricion davallianae.  
Annex I habitats present as a qualifying feature, but not a 
primary reason for selection of this site: 
 
Alluvial forests with Alnus glutinosa and Fraxinus 
Supports habitats 
sensitive to nitrogen 
and acid deposition. 
 Abergelli Power Station – No Significant Effects Report 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
1-9 
 
Summary of Designating Features  
Justification for 
Inclusion in HRA 
Screening 
excelsior (Alno-Padion, Alnion incanae, Salicion albae). 
Ramsar 
Designated under Ramsar Criterion 1: 
Largest example of valley floodplain topogenous mire in 
South Wales, and one of the largest surviving fens in the 
west of Britain. Very few other sites are known to support a 
comparable complexity and diversity of vegetation.  
Designated under Ramsar Criterion 2: 
Supports a substantial population of the nationally-rare 
slender cotton-grass Eriophorum gracile, and a rich 
invertebrate fauna including many rare and highly localised 
species. 
Designated under Ramsar Criterion 3:  
The site supports 199 vascular plant species including 17 
regionally-uncommon and one nationally rare. 
 
Table 1-4: Carmarthen Bay SAC 
Summary of Designating Features  
Justification for 
Inclusion in HRA 
Screening 
Carmarthen Bay SAC 
7km west 
Carmarthen Bay and Estuary is an example of a large estuarine site covering 
approximately 66,092ha on the south coast of Wales, encompassing the estuaries 
of the Rivers Loughor, Tâf and Tywi (coastal plain estuaries) and the Gwendraeth 
(a bar-built estuary). Carmarthen Bay is also an example of an extensive shallow 
bay which varies considerably in salinity, wave action, tides, and sediment types 
and therefore has a wide, varied range of flora and fauna associated with each of 
the zones. The estuary complex includes the sandbank of Helwick Bank, which is 
a linear shallow subtidal sandbank that is unusual in being highly exposed to 
wave action and tidal action, as well as several other smaller sandbanks in 
relatively shallow waters. The site also includes extensive areas of intertidal 
mudflats and sandflats as well as being a representative of pioneer glass wort 
(Salicornia spp.) saltmarsh which has a full transition sequence to upper salt-
meadow and important sand dune habitats. 
Annex I habitats that are a primary reason for selection of 
this site:  
 
Sandbanks which are slightly covered by sea water all 
the time; 
 
Estuaries; 
 
Mudflats and sandflats not covered by seawater at low 
tide; 
 
Large shallow inlets and bays; 
Supports habitats 
sensitive to nitrogen 
deposition.  
 Abergelli Power Station – No Significant Effects Report 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
1-10 
 
Summary of Designating Features  
Justification for 
Inclusion in HRA 
Screening 
 
Salicornia and other annuals colonizing mud and sand; 
and,  
 
Atlantic 
salt 
meadows 
(Glauco-Puccinellietalia 
maritimae).  
Annex II species that are a primary reason for selection of 
this site: 
 
Twaite shad Alosa fallax 
Annex II species present as a qualifying feature, but not a 
primary reason for site selection:  
 
Sea lamprey Petromyzon marinus; 
 
River lamprey Lampetra fluviatilis;  
 
Allis shad Alosa alosa; and, 
 
Otter.  
 
Table 1-5: Burry Inlet SPA and Ramsar 
Summary of Designating Features  
Justification for 
Inclusion in HRA 
Screening 
Burry Inlet SPA and Ramsar 
8.6km south-west 
Burry Inlet is a large estuarine complex covering approximately 6,628ha and 
located between the Gower Peninsula and Llanelli in South Wales. It includes 
extensive areas of intertidal sand- and mud-flats, together with large sand dune 
systems at the mouth of the estuary. The site contains the largest continuous area 
of saltmarsh in Wales (2,200ha). The estuary experiences wide tidal fluctuations 
(about 8m) which have the consequence of exposing a large extent of intertidal 
sediments on a regular basis. These are mostly sandy, but muddy substrates are 
to be found in more sheltered areas. The Burry Inlet regularly supports large 
numbers of overwintering wildfowl and waders that feed in the saltmarshes and 
on the intertidal areas. 
SPA 
This site qualifies under Article 4.2 of the Birds Directive 
(2009/147/EC) by supporting populations of European 
importance of the following migratory species: 
Over winter:  
 
Oystercatcher 
Haematopus 
ostralegus, 
13,590 
individuals representing at least 1.5% of the wintering 
Europe& Northern/Western Africa population (5 year 
peak mean 1991/2 - 1995/6); and, 
 
Pintail Anas acuta, 1,772 individuals representing at 
least 3.0% of the wintering Northwestern Europe 
Supports habitats 
sensitive to nitrogen 
and acidit 
deposition.  
 Abergelli Power Station – No Significant Effects Report 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
1-11 
 
Summary of Designating Features  
Justification for 
Inclusion in HRA 
Screening 
population (5 year peak mean 1991/2 - 1995/6).  
Assemblage qualification: A wetland of international 
importance. 
The area qualifies under Article 4.2 of the Directive 
(79/409/EEC) by regularly supporting at least 20,000 
waterfowl 
Over winter, the area regularly supports 34,962 individual 
waterfowl (5 year peak mean 1991/2 – 1995/6) including: 
curlew Numenius arquata, black-tailed godwit Limosa 
limosa islandica, dunlin Calidris alpina alpina, knot Calidris 
canutus, shoveler Anas clypeata, shelduck Tadorna 
tadorna, oystercatcher Haematopus ostralegus, pintail 
Anas acuta, whimbrel Numenius phaeopus.  
Ramsar 
Designated under Ramsar Criterion 5: 
Assemblages of international importance. 
Species with peak counts in winter: 
41655 waterfowl (5 year peak mean 1998/99-2002/2003).  
Designated under Ramsar Criterion 6: 
Species/populations occurring at levels of international 
importance. 
Qualifying Species/populations (as identified at 
designation): 
Species with peak counts in spring/autumn: 
 
Common redshank, Tringa totanus totanus, 857 
individuals, representing an average of 0.7% of the GB 
population (5 year peak mean 1998/9 – 2002/3).  
Species with peak counts in winter: 
 
Northern pintail, Anas acuta, NW Europe 2687 
individuals, representing an average of 4.4% of the 
population (5 year peak mean 1998/9 – 2002/3); 
 
Eurasian 
oystercatcher, 
Haematopus 
ostralegus 
ostralegus, Europe & NW Africa – wintering 14861 
individuals, representing an average of 1.4% of the 
population (5 year peak mean 1998/9 – 2002/3); and,  
 
Red knot, Calidris canutus islandica, W & Southern 
Africa (wintering) 3618 individuals, representing an 
average of 1.2% of the GB population (5 year peak 
mean 1998/9 – 2002/3). 
Species/populations identified subsequent to designation 
for possible future consideration under Criterion 6. 
Species with peak counts in winter: 
 Abergelli Power Station – No Significant Effects Report 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
1-12 
 
Summary of Designating Features  
Justification for 
Inclusion in HRA 
Screening 
 
Northern shoveler, Anas clypeata, NW & C Europe 467 
individuals, representing an average of 1.1% of the 
population (5 year peak mean 1998/9 – 2002/3).  
1.3 
Screening for Likely Significant Effects 
a) Identification of Potential Impacts 
1.3.1 
The following potential pathways from all stages of the Project have been 
considered but scoped out due to the embedded mitigation detailed in the 
Preliminary Environmental Information Report (Ref. 1.1) designed to control and 
limit any likely effect, or the distance between the Project Site and the Natura 2000 
sites making the pathway or effect unfeasible:  
 
Noise – As stated in Chapter 7: Noise and Vibration of the PEIR the loudest 
noise during construction of the Project will be 92 dB at source and operation of 
the Project 55 dB at the Project Site boundary. At a distance of over 6 km (for 
the nearest Natura 2000 site) this will reduce to well below existing ambient 
levels and will be inaudible.  There are no Likely Significant Effect (LSE) on 
Natura 2000 sites within 10 km associated with noise;  
 
Vibration – As stated in Chapter 7: Noise and Vibration of the PEIR, in the 
absence of specific information on likely construction activities and plant, a 
qualitative assessment based upon professional judgement has been 
undertaken.  Given the significant distance to residential receptors, this 
qualitative judgement made is that no significant vibration (medium or high 
magnitude impacts) is expected to result at residential NSRs from construction 
and therefore further assessment is scoped out.  Given that the nearest Natura 
2000 site is over 6 km from the nearest residential receptor it can be concluded 
that there will be no LSEs on Natura 2000 sites within 10 km during all stages 
of the Project associated with vibration; 
 
Water pollution – As stated in Chapter 8: Ecology of the PEIR, there is a 
hydrological connection between the Project Site and Carmarthen Bay SAC 
and Burry Inlet SPA and Ramsar via the Afon Llan. Leaving the Project Site the 
Afon Llan flows for approximately 12 km before reaching the Natura 2000 sites.  
The foul water drainage system from the operation of the Project will either 
drain to a septic tank or a package treatment plant within the Project Site but 
outside any area at risk of flooding.  The processed water would then discharge 
on-site or to a nearby watercourse (the Afon Llan, or a watercourse that links to 
the Afon Llan.  Discharges into to Afon Llan or any other watercourses linking 
to the Afon Llan will be controlled via various measures as outlined in the 
embedded mitigation.  The embedded mitigation for construction and operation 
covers drainage and following best practice and guidelines, controlling 
pollution, storage of potential pollutants, and precautionary measures will help 
to limit the likelihood and effects of pollution incidents and/or runoff.  In line with 
the drainage strategy the Project Site drainage will include filter drains / swales 
or oil interceptors as necessary to remove pollutants and all necessary 
treatment will take place within the Project Site before it is discharged to the 
 Abergelli Power Station – No Significant Effects Report 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
1-13 
 
existing watercourses.  There will be no LSEs on any Natura 2000 sites within 
10 km associated with water pollution;  
 
Construction dust and vehicle movements – Fine particulate in the size range 
of PM10 generated by construction activities and vehicle emissions can travel 
up to 1 km from a construction site if not adequately controlled, with larger dust 
particles travelling much shorter distances. The nearest Natura 2000 site is 
over 6 km away from the Project Site and, as such, there will be no LSEs on 
any Natura 2000 sites within 10km associated with dust; 
 
Direct habitat loss or fragmentation – There will be no construction or 
requirement to remove any habitat within any Natura 2000 site, as such there 
will be no LSEs on Natura 2000 sites within 10 km associated with direct 
habitat loss or fragmentation;  
 
Direct disturbance to species – There will be no construction or requirement to 
remove any habitat within any Natura 2000 site, as such there will be no LSEs 
on Natura 2000 site within 10 km associated with direct disturbance to species;  
 
Alteration of management – The Project will not cause the alteration of site 
management actions at any Natura 2000 site within 10 km, as such there will 
be no LSEs on Natura 2000 sites associated with alteration of management;  
 
Increase in lighting – As stated in the Outline Lighting Plan (Ref. 1.2), 
Maintaining a ‘dark site’ and minimising the level of light spill as far as 
reasonably practicable, are the underpinning factors that will be sought in the 
design of the lighting for the Project Site. During the hours of darkness, only 
critical light sources will remain in operation, these include emergency exit 
illumination and site security lighting at a low level. Whilst the site access roads 
shall not be lit to avoid impacting the local environment including wildlife and 
adjacent residents as much as is reasonably practicable. The nearest Natura 
2000 site is over 6 km from the Project Site and as such light spill will not 
measurably increase onto Natura 2000 sites within 10 km. There will be no 
LSEs on Natura 2000 sites within 10 km associated with lighting from the 
Project; and  
 
Spread of invasive species – As stated in the Chapter 8: Ecology of the PEIR 
an invasive species management plan will be used to control the spread of 
invasive species.  There will be no construction within, or requirement to 
access, any Natura 2000 site.  The spread of invasive species into Natura 2000 
sites will not be caused by the Project. There will be no LSEs on Natura 2000 
sites associated with spread of invasive species.  
1.3.2 
The potential pathways by which the Project could impact the qualifying features of 
each Natura 2000 sites are as follows: 
 
Potential changes in air quality from operation of the Project, resulting in effects 
on habitats in Crymlyn Bog SAC and Ramsar, Carmarthen Bay SAC and Bury 
Inlet SPA and Ramsar.  
1.3.3 
Transport related emissions are most relevant to sites within 200m of a major road. 
The Design Manual for Roads and Bridges (DMRB) (Ref. 1.3) identifies 200m as 
the distance beyond which the contribution of traffic emissions to local pollutant 
concentrations is considered to be negligible.  There are no roads within 200m of 
any European site that are forecast to receive anything other than a nominal short 
term change in vehicle flows as a result of this scheme.  Transport related 
emissions have not been considered any further in this report.  
 Abergelli Power Station – No Significant Effects Report 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
1-14 
 
b) Potential Impacts on Air Quality 
1.3.4 
There is the potential for the Abergelli Power Project to result in changes to air 
quality that could subsequently affect the habitats within the Natura 2000 sites 
identified above.  The air quality assessment, Chapter 6 of the Abergelli Power 
Project PEIR, sets out predicted changes in concentrations of emissions associated 
with the construction, operational and decommissioning phases of the 
development.  
1.3.5 
The analysis is summarised in the matrices in Appendix B.  
1.3.6 
There are two measures of particular relevance in this assessment. The first is the 
concentration of oxides of nitrogen (known as NOx) in the atmosphere. The main 
importance is as a source of nitrogen, which is then deposited on adjacent habitats 
either directly (known as dry deposition, including directly onto the plants 
themselves) or washed out in rainfall (known as wet deposition). The deposited 
nitrogen can then have a range of effects, primarily growth stimulation or inhibition2, 
but also biochemical and physiological effects such as changes to chlorophyll 
content. NOx may also have some effects which are un-related to its role in total 
nitrogen intake (such as the acidity of the gas potentially affecting lipid 
biosynthesis) but the evidence for these effects is limited and they do not appear to 
occur until high annual concentrations of NOx are reached. The guideline 
atmospheric concentration of NOx advocated by Government for the protection of 
vegetation is 30 micrograms per cubic metre (µgm-3), known as the Critical Level 
(Ref. 1.4). This is driven by the role of NOx in nitrogen deposition and in particular 
in growth stimulation and inhibition. If the total NOx concentration in a given area is 
below the critical level, it is unlikely that nitrogen deposition will be an issue, unless 
there are other sources of nitrogen (e.g. ammonia). If it is above the critical level 
then local nitrogen deposition from NOx could be an issue and should be 
investigated. 
1.3.7 
The second important metric is a direct determination of the rate of the resulting 
nitrogen deposition. Calculating nitrogen deposition rates has the advantage of 
being habitat specific and, for many habitats, of being directly relatable to 
measurable effects on the ground through scrutiny of published dose-response 
relationships. In contrast, the NOx critical level is entirely generic and cannot be 
related to dose-response relationships. Unlike NOx, the nitrogen deposition rate 
below which current evidence suggests that effects should not arise is different for 
each habitat. The rate (known as the Critical Load) is provided on the UK Air 
Pollution Information System website (www.apis.ac.uk) and is expressed as a 
quantity (kilograms) of nitrogen over a given area (hectare) per year (kgNha-1yr-1). 
More recently, there has also been research compiled3 which investigates nitrogen 
dose-response relationships in a range of habitats.  
                                                                                                                     
2 The addition of nitrogen is a form of fertilization, which can have a negative effect on habitats over time by encouraging more 
competitive plant species that can force out the less competitive species that are more characteristic of such habitats. 
3 Compiled and analysed in Caporn, S., Field, C., Payne, R., Dise, N., Britton, A., Emmett, B., Jones, L., Phoenix, G., S 
Power, S., Sheppard, L. & Stevens, C. 2016. Assessing the effects of small increments of atmospheric nitrogen deposition 
(above the critical load) on semi-natural habitats of conservation importance. Natural England Commissioned Reports, 
Number 210. 
 Abergelli Power Station – No Significant Effects Report 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
1-15 
 
1.3.8 
For completeness, rates of acid deposition were also calculated. Acid deposition 
derives from both sulphur and nitrogen. It is expressed in terms of kiloequivalents 
(keq) per hectare per year. The thresholds against which acid deposition is 
assessed are referred to as the Critical Load Function. The principle is similar to 
that for a nitrogen deposition Critical Load.  
1.3.9 
The LSEs are assessed in relation to aerial pollutant concentrations (NOx only) and 
the resultant change in acid and nitrogen deposition at Natura 2000 sites within 
10km of the proposed stack.  
1.3.10 Table 1-6 presents the process contribution (PCs) from the proposed Project (worst 
case) and the resultant acid and nitrogen deposition rates in comparison to the 
relevant critical loads for each of the Natura 2000 sites identified within 10km of the 
Project Site.  The worst case has been assumed to be the maximum number of 
hours that the plant can operate and a stack height of 35 m.  The Power 
Generation Plant is a peaking site and will therefore only operate during periods of 
high power demand.  It is therefore anticipated that the site will normally operate for 
1,500 hours per year, but may operate for up to a maximum of 2,250 hours per 
year.  The maximum number of hours that the plant can operate will be set out in 
the sites Environmental Permit and this operating period cannot be exceeded.  A 
minimum stack height of 35 m has been proposed by APL for the proposed Project 
and a maximum height of 45 m.  The assessment of impacts at ecological 
receptors has, therefore, used a stack height of 35 m as this represents the worst-
case in terms of dispersion.   
1.3.11 In April 2017 a High Court judgment4 (colloquially known as the Ashdown Forest 
judgment) partially quashed the Lewes District and South Downs National Park 
Joint Core Strategy in England. This was on the basis that the HRA supporting the 
Joint Core Strategy only considered its own contribution in determining whether 
there would be a likely significant air quality effect on Ashdown Forest SPA. The 
judge ruled that the HRA had thus explicitly failed to undertake any form of 
assessment ‘in combination’ and that this was in contravention of the Conservation 
of Habitats and Species Regulations 2010 (now repealed and replaced by the 2017 
Regulations).  Previously, air quality impact assessments enabled likely significant 
effects to be immediately dismissed without further consideration if the contribution 
of the project in question fell below 1% of the critical level (for NOx) or critical load 
(for nitrogen deposition). In that context no assessment ‘in combination’ was 
required. However, in light of the above High Court judgment, this HRA does not 
rely on the use of that 1% threshold to dismiss the need to consider ‘in combination’ 
effects. 
1.3.12 The information in Table 1-6 and 1-7 is based on the air quality modelling provided 
by the Applicant with a stack height of 35m (the worst case as noted above). The 
results of the modelling are set out in Appendix A Table 1-9, Table 1-10 and Table 1-
11 in which the worst case has been provided for each relevant Nature 2000 site 
using the receptor most sensitive to acid and nitrogen for each site.  
                                                                                                                     
4 Wealden District Council v Secretary of State for Communities and Local Government and others, 2017 [EWHC] 351 
http://www.bailii.org/ew/cases/EWHC/Admin/2017/351.html [accessed 26/10/2017] 
 Abergelli Power Station – No Significant Effects Report 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
1-16 
 
1.3.13 In the tables below, nitrogen and acid deposition are rounded up to two decimal 
places to avoid false precision5. As such, the lowest deposition rates are reported 
as ‘< 0.01 kgN/ha/yr’ and represent negligible deposition.  
                                                                                                                     
5 Convention dictates that the number of significant figures used in the presentation of data should be limited to what is warranted by the 
precision of those data. 
Abergelli Power Station – No Significant Effects Report 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
1-17 
 
 
Table 1-6: Potential Effects of Air Quality – NOx Daily and Annual Process Contributions and Predicted Environmental Concentrations, and Process 
Contributions and Predicted Environmental Concentrations as a % of the Air Quality Standard 
Name 
Distance 
from 
stack 
(km) 
Most sensitive 
receptor 
NOx Daily (μg/m3) 
NOx Annual (μg/m3) 
NOx Daily (μg/m3) 
NOx Annual (μg/m3) 
PC 
PC as % 
AQS 
PC 
PC as % 
AQS 
PEC 
PC as % 
AQS 
PEC 
PEC as 
% AQS 
Carmarthen 
Bay and 
Estuaries SAC 
7.2 
Estuaries 
3.70 
5% 
0.01 
0.02% 
27.5 
37% 
11.98 
40% 
Crymlyn Bog 
SAC/Ramsar 
6.8 
Transition mires 
and quaking bogs 
3.62 
5% 
0.00 
0.01% 
35.4 
47% 
15.90 
53% 
Burry Inlet 
SPA and 
Ramsar 
8.9 
Saltmarshes 
3.35 
4% 
0.01 
0.02% 
24.5 
33% 
10.79 
36% 
 
 
 
Abergelli Power Station – No Significant Effects Report 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
1-18 
 
 
Table 1-7: Potential Effects of Air Quality – Nitrogen and Nitrogen Acid 
Name 
Distance 
from 
stack 
(km) 
Most sensitive 
receptor 
Nitrogen 
Nitrogen acid 
Empirical 
Critical 
Load 
Nitrogen (kg 
N/ha/yr) 
Process 
Contributio
n (35m 
stack) (kg 
N/ha/yr) 
Background 
(kg N/ha/yr) 
Empirical 
Critical 
Load 
Nitrogen 
acid (keq 
H+/ha/yr – 
HNO3) 
Process 
Contributio
n (35m 
stack) (keq 
H+/ha/yr – 
HNO3) 
Background 
(keq 
H+/ha/yr – 
HNO3) 
Carmarthen Bay 
and Estuaries 
SAC 
7.2 
Estuaries 
20-30 
<0.01 
15.1 
Not sensitive 
<0.01 
1.33 
Crymlyn Bog 
SAC/Ramsar 
6.8 
Transition mires and 
quaking bogs 
5-10 
<0.01 
11.5 
0.70 
<0.01 
1.06 
Burry Inlet SPA 
and Ramsar 
8.9 
Saltmarshes 
20-30 
<0.01 
15.1 
2.02 
<0.01 
1.33 
  
Abergelli Power Station – No Significant Effects Report 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
1-19 
 
1.4 
Summary of Likely Significant Effects Screening 
1.4.1 
Only NOx has been modelled as an emitted pollutant; no other relevant pollutants 
are expected (such as sulphur dioxide).  Impacts due to emissions of sulphur 
dioxide and, by inference deposition of sulphur, have been scoped out of the 
assessment since natural gas is an inherently low sulphur fuel. However, 
background levels of sulphur deposition are considered in the assessment of 
acidification.  
1.4.2 
For all receptors, the annual (long-term) average and 24hr (short-term) average 
PEC (Predicted Environmental Concentration i.e. the total concentration including 
the Project) for NOx is forecast to be well below the critical level of 30 
micrograms/cubic metre (for long-term NOx) and 75 micrograms/cubic metre (for 
short-term NOx). Since the critical level will not be breached there are no grounds 
to conclude a likely significant effect based on atmospheric concentrations alone.  
a) Nitrogen Disposition 
1.4.3 
Considering the forecast change in nitrogen deposition rates due to the Project, the 
PC is extremely small being less than 0.01kgN/ha/yr in all instances. This is so 
small that it effectively represents no forecast change in nitrogen deposition, 
compared to the baseline.  
1.4.4 
For Carmarthen Bay and Estuaries SAC and Burry Inlet SPA and Ramsar site, 
where the current background levels for nitrogen are within the critical loads for the 
most sensitive receptor at each of the sites, these increases are concluded not to 
have a LSE on either site.  
1.4.5 
For Crymlyn Bog SAC and Ramsar the background level is already in exceedance 
of the critical load for nitrogen for the most sensitive receptor at the site. However, 
the increase arising from the Project is deemed to be so small that it can be 
concluded the increase will not have a LSE on the site.  
1.4.6 
In published data on nitrogen dose-response relationships (Ref. 1.5) it has been 
shown that no habitats studied to date are responsive to such small incremental 
changes in nitrogen deposition.  
1.4.7 
The studies also indicate that the effect of adding a given amount of nitrogen is not 
simple, linear and additive as is often assumed but depends heavily on the existing 
nitrogen deposition. As such the response of vegetation to nitrogen deposition is far 
more subtle that the ‘black and white’ critical load concept suggests. In bog, for 
example, at background deposition rates of 15 – 20kgN/ha/yr an increase of 
3.3kgN/ha/yr would be required to reduce species richness by one species. Note 
that this does not mean any species would be ‘lost’ from the affected area, just that 
one species would occur at a reduced frequency. The study illustrates the fairly 
subtle effect of nitrogen deposition at moderately high background rates.  
Abergelli Power Station – No Significant Effects Report 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
1-20 
 
1.4.8 
Although woodland and fen are not included in the report in terms of deriving dose-
response relationships the report indicates that the same broad pattern of response 
can be applied to fen and woodland habitats (at least at woodland edges which will 
be more exposed to pollutants).  
b) Nitrogen Acid Desposition 
1.4.9 
None of the receptors for Carmarthen Bay and Estuaries SAC are sensitive to 
nitrogen acid deposition.  
1.4.10 For Crymlyn Bog SAC and Ramsar the PC is less than 0.01keqH+/ha/yr and so low 
as to be effectively zero. Although the background level is above the critical load for 
the most sensitive receptor, any increase less than 0.01keqH+/ha/yr will not cause 
a measurable exceedance of the critical load for nitrogen acid at the site. 
1.4.11 For Burry Inlet SPA and Ramsar the PC is less than 0.01keqH+/ha/yr and so low as 
to be effectively zero. Furthermore, the background level is below the critical load 
for the most sensitive receptor, and as such any increase less than 
0.01keqH+/ha/yr will not cause an exceedance of the critical load for nitrogen acid 
at the site.  
1.5 
In-Combination Effects 
1.5.1 
The Conservation of Habitats and Species Regulations 2017 state that when 
considering whether a specific plan or project is likely to have a significant effect on 
a Natura 2000 Site, consideration should be given to the effect of the proposal 
alone and in-combination with other plans and projects. Part of the HRA process is 
to identify the plans, programmes and projects that could have in-combination 
effects. The PINS Advice Note Ten: Habitat Regulations Assessment relevant to 
Nationally Significant Infrastructure Projects (January 2016) states that in 
assessing in-combination effects the following projects should be considered:  
 
Projects that are under construction; 
 
Permitted application(s) not yet implemented; 
 
Submitted application(s) not yet determined; 
 
All refusals subject to appeal procedures not yet determined; 
 
Projects on the National Infrastructure’s programme of projects6; and 
 
Projects identified in the Swansea Unitary Development Plan  and emerging 
development plans (Swansea Deposit Local Development Plan) with 
appropriate weight being given as they move closer to adoption, recognising 
that much information on relevant proposals will be limited and the degree of 
uncertainty which may be present.  
1.5.2 
The projects which have been researched are shown in Table 1-8 below.   
 
 
                                                                                                                     
6 https://infrastructure.planninginspectorate.gov.uk/projects/  
Abergelli Power Station – No Significant Effects Report 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
1-21 
 
Table 1-8: Projects Considered In-Combination 
 
# / Planning 
Application 
Name 
Description 
Under Construction 
1 2006/0773 (varied by 
2009/1520 and 
2011/1143 ) and 
consecutive temporary 
planning permissions 
2007/2513, 2009/0062, 
2009/1585, 2011/1311 
and 2014/0913 (varied 
by 2016/1270 ) 
Felindre Business Park Strategic business park for B1 and B2 uses 
to accommodate emerging industries, high 
tech manufacturing, high level services, 
ancillary uses, associated car parking, 
landscaping and access roads (outline). 
The site has been laid out and is effectively 
a serviced site, however no buildings have 
been constructed. 
Park and ride schemes also operate on 
match days to the Liberty football stadium; 
and for car parking for the Driver and 
Vehicle Licensing Agency (DVLA) site in 
Longview Road, Morriston. 
2 2013/0135  
Abergelli Solar Farm 
Installation of ground mounted array of 
solar panels, inverter substations and 2.4 m 
high fencing on land at Abergelli Farm. This 
development will be located adjacent to the 
Gas Connection. 
3 2013/0865  
Cefn Betingau Phase 
1, Morriston 
Construction of 9MW solar park consisting 
of installation of up to 135,000 pv panels 
and 9 inverter/transformer cabins and a 
single control building 
4 2014/0739   
Gelliwern Isaf solar 
park  
6MWe solar park at Gelliwern Isaf Farm -
installation of a solar PV array, construction 
of a storage room, invertor cabin, a 
substation, switchgear building and fencing 
5 2014/1022   
Brynwhilach Solar Park Construction of 12.69MWe solar park 
consisting of installation of up to 47,000 pv 
panels and 8 inverter/transformer stations, 
2 substations, storage container, new 
access tracks, security fencing/cctv and 
associated equipment and infrastructure 
work. 
6 2007/1250 (varied by 
2017/0325/S73)  
Former J R 
Steelworks, Bryntywod 
Retention of use of land as timber recycling 
centre 
including 
processing 
of 
wood, 
wooden materials, associated plant and 
machinery and previously tipped inert 
material together with on-site storage of 
wood chip material, construction of building 
for the dry storage of recycled wood waste 
and the creation of a 1m high clay bund 
around southern, western and northern 
boundaries of the site without complying 
with conditions 2, 3, 5, 9, 10, 11, 14 and 16 
of planning permission 2007/1250 granted 
11th December. 
Abergelli Power Station – No Significant Effects Report 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
1-22 
 
7 2012/1221  
Mynydd y Gwair Wind 
Farm 
Installation of 16 wind turbines (maximum 
height to blade tip of 127 m with a hub 
height of 80 metres), with a maximum 
generating capacity of 48MWe, associated 
tracks and ancillary infrastructure. 
Permitted but not implemented 
8 2013/0795   
Tyle Coch Mawr Wind 
Farm  
Installation of four 5 kW wind turbines 20.7 
m to tip and associated infrastructure. 
9 2013/1835   
Felindre Business Park Construction of park and ride/share car 
park (approximately 480 spaces) with new 
vehicular access, security office, toilet, 
engineering 
and 
associated 
works, 
including 
lighting, 
fencing, 
drainage 
attenuation and landscaping. 
10 2015/1529 (appeal ref 
4369653)  
Llettyr Morfil Farm 
Construction of a 4.9 MW solar park 
(approx. 8.8 ha) including photovoltaic 
panels, four inverter stations, centre station, 
new 
access 
tracks, 
security 
fencing, 
security 
cameras 
and 
associated 
equipment 
and 
infrastructure 
works. 
Allowed on appeal in June 2016 
11 2015/0308  
Plot 8 Felindre 
Strategic Business 
Park 
Two/three 
storey 
private 
hospital 
development with associated landscaping, 
site roads and car parking 
12 2016/1522  
Griffiths Waste 
Management Site, 
Bryntywod 
Llangyfelach Swansea 
SA5 7LP 
Demolition of existing waste management 
facility 
buildings 
and 
construction 
of 
replacement 
buildings 
and 
associated 
infrastructure 
13 2008/0912  
Former Walters Yard 
Pontlliw Swansea 
Construction 
of 
67 
dwellings 
with 
associated access, roads, parking, open 
space and demolition of existing buildings. 
Approved with S106 in March 2016. 
Submitted but not determined 
14 2011/0345 
Land at Llewellyn 
Road, Penllergaer 
Construction of up to 200 residential units 
with associated access (outline).   
15 2012/0721  
Royal Fern Golf Resort Application to vary Condition 8 of Outline 
Planning Permission 2008/0154 to extend
the period for the submission of the 
reserved matters for a further three years in 
relation to the proposed development of 18 
hole championship and 9 hole par 3 golf 
courses, golf club house including health 
facilities, 
sauna, 
swimming 
pool, 
gymnasium, golf school and academy, 80 
golfing lodges, approximately 135 housing 
plots, 
green 
keepers 
flat, 
associated 
infrastructure, car parking and landscaping 
Abergelli Power Station – No Significant Effects Report 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
1-23 
 
(outline).  
16 2014/0977 
Parc Ceirw, 
Cwmrhydyceirw 
Quarry, Swansea 
Proposed cessation of landfill and other 
operations 
enabled 
by 
residential 
development of circa 300 dwellings, public 
open space and associated highway and 
ancillary works (outline) 
17 2017/1822/OUT 
Land West Of 
Llangyfelach Road 
Tirdeunaw 
Outline 
planning 
application 
(with 
all 
matters reserved apart from strategic 
access junctions) for residential led mixed 
use development, to be developed in 
phases, including up to 1950 dwellings, link 
road, local centre provision of a primary 
school, community facilities, Public Open 
Space including facilities for children, and 
areas of landscaping (including sustainable 
drainage systems), outdoor sports provision 
including 
playing 
pitches, 
associated 
services, infrastructure and engineering 
works including new vehicular access, 
improvements to the existing highway 
network, new roads, footpaths / cycleways, 
and ancillary works. 
18 2016/1478 
Land North Of Garden 
Village Swansea 
Hybrid planning application (with all matters 
reserved apart from strategic access) for 
residential-led mixed use development, to 
be 
developed 
in 
phases, 
including 
approximately 
750 
residential 
units; 
provision of 1 no. Primary school; circa 
280m2 - 370m2 flexible A1-A3 / D1 
floorspace; open space including parks; 
natural and semi natural green space; 
amenity green spaces; facilities for children 
and young people; outdoor sports provision 
including 
playing 
pitches; 
associated 
services, infrastructure and engineering 
works including new vehicular accesses, 
improvement works to the existing highway 
network, new roads, footpaths/cycleways; 
landscaping works (including sustainable 
drainage systems), ecological mitigation 
works and ancillary works. Submitted in 
July 
2016 
and 
currently 
pending 
determination. (The application would be 
referable to Welsh Ministers if the Council 
are minded to approve). 
19 2017/0986/FUL 
Former Civic Centre 
Penllergaer Swansea 
SA4 9GH 
Construction of 80 no. residential units with 
associated access and landscaping 
Identified / Allocated (and not referenced above) 
20 UDP Policy EC1(3)  
Swansea Vale 
Strategic Mixed-Use 
25 ha allocated employment land 
Abergelli Power Station – No Significant Effects Report 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
1-24 
 
Site 
21 UDP Policy EC1(10)  
Land at Bryntywod, 
Felindre (Local 
Employment Site) 
15.8 ha allocated employment land 
22 UDP Policy EC1(12)  
Penllergaer Business 
Park (Local 
Employment Site) 
8.2 ha allocated employment land 
23 UDP Policy HC13  
West of Morriston 
Hospital 
Hospital related activities 
24 LDP Policy SD G  
Northwest of M4 J46, 
Llangyfelach 
Comprehensive mixed use development of 
up to 850 homes during the Plan period, 
incorporating a mix of low-medium and high 
density residential, a new district centre 
with commercial units, primary school, a 
mix of public realm, open space and play 
provision, new community buildings, and a 
strategic business park 
25 LDP Policy SD A  
South of Glanffrwd 
Road, Pontarddulais 
Comprehensive, 
residential 
led, 
development 
of 
up 
to 
720 
homes, 
incorporating a primary school, leisure and 
recreation facilities, public open space and 
appropriate 
community 
facilities, 
employment and commercial uses 
26 LDP Policy SD C  
South of A4240, 
Penllergaer 
Comprehensive, residential led, mixed use 
development of up to 750 homes during the 
Plan period (and up to 1,000 homes 
beyond the Plan period), incorporating 
primary school, leisure and recreation 
facilities, public realm, public open space 
and appropriate community and commercial 
uses 
27 LDP Policy SD E  
North of Clasemont 
Road, Morriston 
Comprehensive, residential led, mixed use 
development of up to 675 homes during the 
Plan period, incorporating primary school, 
leisure and recreation facilities, public 
realm, public open space and appropriate 
community and commercial uses 
28 LDP Policy SI 4   
Morriston Hospital 
Land adjacent to Morrison Hospital is 
safeguarded 
solely 
for 
the 
future 
development 
and 
expansion 
of 
the 
Hospital. Development at this location is 
restricted to healthcare related uses in 
association with the beneficial use of 
Morriston Hospital. Proposals must be 
delivered alongside appropriate new and 
enhanced highway infrastructure that will 
significantly 
improve 
the 
existing 
substandard road access leading to the 
site.  A new access road is proposed as 
part of this proposal (Strategic Transport 
Abergelli Power Station – No Significant Effects Report 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
1-25 
 
Strategy Table 9.2) to resolve road capacity 
issues from the roundabout immediately 
north of M4 J46. 
29 LDP Policies RP7  and 
RP8 , paragraph 
2.14.28 (Preferred 
Locations) 
Former Tip Site, 
Felindre 
Preferred 
areas 
for 
new 
waste 
management facilities include the former 
Tip site at Felindre. The site at Felindre is 
identified specifically for the potential to 
accommodate a Combined Heat and Power 
(CHP) Facility which could provide heat or 
power 
for 
adjacent 
proposed 
developments.   
30 LDP Policy H1.11  
Land at Ramsey Road, 
Clydach 
60 dwellings 
31 LDP Policy H1.21  
Land east of 
Pontarddulais Road, 
Gorseinon 
90 dwellings 
32 LDP Policy H1.26  
Land at Carmel Road 
and Bryntirion Road, 
Pontlliw 
100 dwellings 
33 LDP Policy H1.30  
Land north of Llewellyn 
Road, Penllergaer 
50 dwellings 
34 LDP Policy H1.31  
Land at Bolgoed Road, 
Pontarddulais 
50 dwellings 
 
1.5.3 
Projects with point source emissions have been considered for the in-combination 
assessment where deposition of those emissions may be geographically coincident 
with this Project.  Two projects have been identified to be included in the in-
combination assessment:  
 
2015/1716. Land at Abergelli Farm near Felindre Swansea SA5 7NN. 
Emergency standby electricity generation facility comprising: modern modular 
diesel generator units (up to 14 in total), transformers, diesel storage tanks, 
boundary treatment including acoustic screening, access improvements and 
associated works. 
 
LDP Policies RP7 and RP8, paragraph 2.14.28 (Preferred Locations). Former 
Tip Site, Felindre. Preferred areas for new waste management facilities include 
the former Tip site at Felindre. The site at Felindre is identified specifically for 
the potential to accommodate a Combined Heat and Power (CHP) Facility 
which could provide heat or power for adjacent proposed developments.  
1.5.4 
The planning application for the Land at Abergelli emergency standby electricity 
generation facility was refused on 16 October 2015. The applicant has stated that 
there is no intention of resubmitting the application or to appeal of the decision 
notice (and the time for submitting an appeal has now expired.  
1.5.5 
The Former Tip Site, Felindre Combined Heat and Power (CHP) Facility is a 
preferred location in the Deposit Local Development Plan policy, and is therefore at 
an early stage in the (potential) consenting process. As such no planning 
Abergelli Power Station – No Significant Effects Report 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
1-26 
 
application or background information is available to undertake in-combination air 
quality modelling or assessment.  The Deposit Local Development Plan is currently 
at Examination and as a result only limited weight can be attached to the allocation.  
1.6 
Conclusion 
a) Introduction 
1.6.1 
This section summarises the potential effects of the proposed Project and 
considers whether the requirement to proceed to Stage Two of the HRA process 
(Appropriate Assessment) is triggered in relation to the proposed Project.  
1.6.2 
An Appropriate Assessment is necessary when the screening exercise concludes 
that a project, alone or in combination with other plans or projects, is likely to give 
rise to significant effects on a Natura 2000 site. When required, an Appropriate 
Assessment considers the impact of the project on the integrity of the Natura 2000 
site having regard to the site’s conservation objectives.  
b) Potential Effects 
1.6.3 
There are no LSEs on Natura 2000 sites within 10km of the proposed development 
associated with air quality- nitrogen and nitrogen acid deposition as a result of NOx 
emissions from the proposed Project alone or in-combination with projects.  
1.6.4 
No other impacts arising from the construction, operation or decommissioning of 
the Project have the potential to have an impact on any Natura 2000 sites.  
1.6.5 
Therefore the Appropriate Assessment – Stage Two of the HRA – process is not 
required.  
1.6.6 
The Applicant remains committed to consultation with NRW and will continue to 
discuss the air quality aspects of the proposed development in the period up to 
submission of the DCO application and in the period before Examination. It is the 
Applicant's intention to agree a Statement of Common Ground with NRW covering 
the matters included in this report and it is proposed that further meetings and 
dialogue will take place as necessary between the Applicant and NRW with that 
objective. 
 
 
 Abergelli Power Project No Significant Effects Report 
Prepared for: Abergelli Poer Limtied 
 
AECOM 
1-27 
 
References 
Ref. 1.1 AECOM. (2017). Abergelli Power Project Preliminary Environmental 
Information Report.  
Ref. 1.2 WSP (2017). Abergelli Power Station Outline Lighting Strategy. November 
2017.  
Ref. 1.3 DMRB (2007). Design Manual for Roads and Bridges, Volume 11 
Environmental Assessment, Section 3 Environmental Assessment 
Techniques, Part 1 HA 207/07, Air Quality (May 2007).  
Ref. 1.4 APIS (2017). Critical Loads and Critical Levels - a guide to the data 
provided in APIS, Section 3.3 Critical Levels, Table 1:  Critical levels of air 
pollutants Available at 
http://www.apis.ac.uk/overview/issues/overview_Cloadslevels.htm#_Toc279
788054 [Access on 29/11/2017].  
Ref. 1.5 Caporn, S., Field, C., Payne, R., Dise, N., Britton, A., Emmett, B., Jones, L., 
Phoenix, G., S Power, S., Sheppard, L. & Stevens, C. (2016). Assessing 
the effects of small increments of atmospheric nitrogen deposition (above 
the critical load) on semi-natural habitats of conservation importance. 
Natural England Commissioned Reports, Number 210.  
 Abergelli Power Project No Significant Effects Report 
Prepared for: Abergelli Power Limted 
 
AECOM 
1-28 
 
Figure 1.1 Location of Project Site and Natura 2000 Sites 
^_
Burry Inlet
Crymlyn Bog
Burry Inlet
Carmarthen Bay and Estuaries / Bae Caerfyrddin ac Aberoedd
Crymlyn Bog / Cors Crymlyn
Filename: P:\UKCDF1-IE\Projects\Environmental\Jobs - Potential\2017 Q1\Abergelli Power Station\010 GIS\02_Maps\EC - Ecology\Designations\F1_Natura 2000 sites_v1.mxd
This drawing has been prepared for the use of AECOM's client. It may not be used, modified, reproduced or relied upon by third parties, except as agreed by AECOM or as required by law. AECOM accepts no responsibility, and denies any liability whatsoever, to any party that uses or relies on this drawing without AECOM's express written consent. Do not scale this document. All measurements must be obtained from the stated dimensions.
AECOM Internal Project No:
Drawing Title:
Drawing No:
60542910
NATURA 2000 SITES
005
Scale at A3: 1:90,000
FIGURE 1
1
0
1
2
3
4
5 km
±
Rev:
Project Title:
Client:
LEGEND
ABERGELLI POWER
STATION
AECOM Limited
1 Callaghan Square
Cardiff, CF10 5BT
+44 (0)29 2067 4600 tel
www.aecom.com
Copyright:
© Crown copyright and database rights
 [2017] Ordnance Survey 0100031673
© Local Government Information House 
Limited copyright and database rights
 [2017] 0100031673
Drawn:
GM
Chk'd:
CC
Date:
App'd:
CA
13/12/17
^_
Proposed Stack Location
Project Site Boundary
10km Study Area
Special Area of Protection
Special Area of Conservation
Ramsar
 Abergelli Power Project No Significant Effects Report 
Prepared for: Abergelli Power Limted 
 
AECOM 
1-29 
 
Appendix A Air Quality Modelling: Table 1-9, Table 1-10 and Table 1-11 
Table 1-9: Process Contributions of NOx 
Natura 2000 
Site 
Most 
Sensitive 
Habitat 
Type 
NOx Daily (μg/m3) 
NOx Annual (μg/m3) 
NOx Daily (μg/m3) 
NOx Annual (μg/m3) 
PC 
PC as % 
AQS 
PC 
PC as % 
AQS 
PC 
PC as % 
AQS 
PC 
PC as % 
AQS 
75 μg/m3 
30 μg/m3 
75 μg/m3 
30 μg/m3 
Carmarthen 
Bay and 
Estuaries 
SAC 
Estuaries  
3.70 
5% 
0.01 
0.02% 
27.5 
37% 
11.98 
40% 
Crymlyn Bog 
SAC & 
Ramsar 
Transition 
mires and 
quaking 
bogs  
3.62 
5% 
0.00 
0.01% 
35.4 
47% 
15.90 
53% 
Burry Inlet 
SPA & 
Ramsar 
Saltmarsh; 
Acid 
Grassland 
3.35 
4% 
0.01 
0.02% 
24.5 
33% 
10.79 
36% 
 
 
 
 Abergelli Power Project No Significant Effects Report 
Prepared for: Abergelli Power Limted 
 
AECOM 
1-30 
 
Table 1-10: Process Contributions, Critical Loads and Predicted Environmental Concentration of Nitrogen 
Natura 2000 Site 
Most Sensitive 
Habitat Type 
Process 
Contribution 
CL (kg 
N/ha/yr)
CL (kg 
N/ha/yr) PC as 
% Min 
CL 
PC as % 
Max CL 
N Dep (kg 
N/ha/yr) 
PEC 
PEC 
as % 
Min CL
PEC 
as % 
Max 
CL 
Min CL 
Max CL 
Background Max 
  
  
Carmarthen Bay 
and Estuaries SAC Estuaries  
0.001 
20 
30 
0.00% 
0.00% 
15.1 
15.1 
76% 
50% 
Crymlyn Bog SAC 
& Ramsar 
Transition mires 
and quaking 
bogs 
0.001 
5 
10 
0.01% 
0.01% 
11.5 
11.5 
230% 
115% 
Burry Inlet SPA & 
Ramsar 
Acid Grassland 
0.001 
10 
15 
0.01% 
0.01% 
15.1 
15.1 
151% 
101% 
 
 
 
 Abergelli Power Project No Significant Effects Report 
Prepared for: Abergelli Power Limted 
 
AECOM 
1-31 
 
Table 1-11: Process Contributions, Critical Loads and Predicted Environmental Concentration of Nitrogen Acid 
Natura 2000 Site 
Most 
Sensitive 
Habitat Type 
Process 
Contribution
Critical Load (keq/ha/yr) Max Process 
Contribution
Background
PEC 
CLminN CLmaxN CLmaxS % CLF 
PEC % 
CLF 
Carmarthen Bay 
and Estuaries 
SAC 
Estuaries  
0.0001 
N/A 
N/A 
N/A 
0.00% 
1.33 
1.41 0% 
Crymlyn Bog SAC 
& Ramsar 
Transition 
mires and 
quaking bogs 
0.00004 
0.32 
0.70 
0.37 
0.01% 
1.06 
1.06 153%
Burry Inlet SPA & 
Ramsar 
Acid 
Grassland 
0.0001 
0.44 
2.02 
1.58 
0.00% 
1.33 
1.33 66% 
 
 
 Abergelli Power Project No Significant Effects Report 
Prepared for: Abergelli Power Limted 
 
AECOM 
1-32 
 
Appendix B HRA Screening Matrices for the Abergelli Power Project 
HRA Screening Matrices for Abergelli Power Project 
 
 
Appendix 1 Screening Matrices 
Page 1 
Planning Inspectorate 
Advice Note 10 
Habitats Regulations Assessment 
 
 
 
HRA Screening Matrices for the Abergelli Power Project 
 
 
 
 
HRA Screening Matrices for Abergelli Power Project 
 
 
Appendix 1 Screening Matrices 
Page 2 
Potential Effects 
Potential effects upon the European site(s)* which are considered within the submitted HRA report (AECOM, 2017) are provided 
in the table below. 
Effects considered within the screening matrices 
Designation 
Effects described in 
submission information 
Presented in screening 
matrices as 
Crymlyn Bog SAC and Ramsar 
Carmarthen Bay SAC 
Burry Inlet SPA and Ramsar 
 
Increase in concentration of NOx 
 
Increase in deposition of Nitrogen 
 
Increase in deposition of Acid 
 
Air quality 
                                       
* As defined in Advice Note 10. 
HRA Screening Matrices for Abergelli Power Project 
 
 
Appendix 1 Screening Matrices 
Page 3 
STAGE 1: SCREENING MATRICES 
 
The European sites included within the screening assessment are: 
Crymlyn Bog SAC  
Crymlyn Bog Ramsar 
Carmarthen Bay SAC 
Burry Inlet SPA 
Burry Inlet Ramsar 
Evidence for, or against, likely significant effects on the European site(s) and its qualifying feature(s) is detailed within the 
footnotes to the screening matrices below. 
Matrix Key: 
 
 = Likely significant effect cannot be excluded 
 = Likely significant effect can be excluded 
 
C = construction 
O = operation 
D = decommissioning 
HRA Screening Matrices for Abergelli Power Project 
 
 
Appendix 1 Screening Matrices 
Page 4 
HRA Screening Matrix 1 Carmarthen Bay and Estuaries SAC 
Name of European site and designation: Carmarthen Bay and Estuaries SAC 
EU Code: UK0020020 
Distance to NSIP: 7km 
 
European site 
features 
Likely effects of NSIP 
 
Effect 
Air quality 
In combination effects 
Stage of 
Development  
C 
O 
D 
C 
O 
D 
Estuaries  
 
a 
 
 
b 
 
Sandbanks which 
are slightly 
covered by sea 
water all the time; 
 
a 
 
 
b 
 
Mudflats and 
sandflats not 
covered by 
seawater at low 
tide; 
 
a 
 
 
b 
 
Large shallow 
inlets and bays  
 
a 
 
 
b 
 
Salicornia and 
other annuals 
colonizing mud 
and sand; and,  
 
a 
 
 
b 
 
Atlantic salt 
 
a 
 
 
b 
 
HRA Screening Matrices for Abergelli Power Project 
 
 
Appendix 1 Screening Matrices 
Page 5 
meadows (Glauco-
Puccinellietalia 
maritimae).  
Twaite shad Alosa 
fallax 
 
a 
 
 
b 
 
Sea lamprey 
Petromyzon 
marinus 
 
a 
 
 
b 
 
River lamprey 
Lampetra fluviatilis 
 
a 
 
 
b 
 
Allis shad Alosa 
alosa 
 
a 
 
 
b 
 
Otter Lutra lutra 
 
a 
 
 
b 
 
 
 
 
Evidence supporting conclusions: 
 
a. Table 1-6, Table 1-8, Table 1-9 and Table 1-10 of the No Significant Effects report show the potential effects of NOx, 
nitrogen and nitrogen acidity on the most sensitive receptor of Carmarthen Bay and Estuaries SAC. Section 1.5.2 – 1.5.3 
states that the process contributions are extremely small for nitrogen (<0.01kgN/ha/yr) and the current background levels 
for nitrogen are within the critical loads for the most sensitive receptor at the site the increase is concluded not to have a 
LSE on the site. Section 1.5.8 states that none of the receptors for the site are sensitive to nitrogen acidity deposition.  
b. 
Table 1-7 and Sections 1.6.3 – 1.6.5 provide a summary of the projects and plans provided by the local authority for an in-
combination assessment. One project that was refused planning has point source emissions; the promoter has stated they 
do not intend to resubmit the application or to appeal against the refusal. There is a point source emitter within the Local 
Development Plan; however there is no information on the plan since it is a preferred location only and as such it is not 
possible to obtain air quality data. It is concluded that there are no point source emitters that would contribute to an in-
combination effect with the emissions from the proposed Project.  
HRA Screening Matrices for Abergelli Power Project 
 
 
Appendix 1 Screening Matrices 
Page 6 
HRA Screening Matrix 2 Crymlyn Bog SAC 
Name of European site and designation: Crymlyn Bog SAC 
EU Code:  UK0012885 
Distance to NSIP: 6.7km 
 
European site 
features 
Likely effects of NSIP 
 
Effect 
Air quality 
In combination effects 
Stage of 
Development  
C 
O 
D 
C 
O 
D 
Transition mires 
and quaking bogs 
 
a 
 
 
b 
 
Calcareous fens 
with Cladium 
mariscus and 
species of the 
Caricion 
davallianae 
 
a 
 
 
b 
 
Alluvial forests 
with Alnus 
glutinosa and 
Fraxinus excelsior 
(Alno-Padion, 
Alnion incanae, 
Salicion albae) 
 
a 
 
 
b 
 
 
HRA Screening Matrices for Abergelli Power Project 
 
 
Appendix 1 Screening Matrices 
Page 7 
Evidence supporting conclusions: 
 
a. Table 1-6, Table 1-8, Table 1-9 and Table 1-10 of the No Significant Effects report show the potential effects of NOx, 
nitrogen and nitrogen acidity on the most sensitive receptor of Crymlyn Bog SAC; this is more sensitive than the features 
listed for Crymlyn Bog Ramsar . Section 1.5.4 – 1.5.7 states that the process contributions are extremely small for nitrogen 
(<0.01kgN/ha/yr) and the current background levels for nitrogen are in exceedance of the critical loads for the most 
sensitive receptor at the site the increase is concluded not to have a LSE on the site due to the extremely low level of 
increase. Section 1.5.9 states that the process contribution for nitrogen acidity deposition is zero.  
b. Table 1-7 and Sections 1.6.3 – 1.6.5 provide a summary of the projects and plans provided by the local authority for an in-
combination assessment. One project that was refused planning has point source emissions; the promoter has stated they 
do not intend to resubmit the application or to appeal against the refusal. There is a point source emitter within the Local 
Development Plan; however there is no information on the plan since it is a preferred location only and as such it is not 
possible to obtain air quality data. It is concluded that there are no point source emitters that would contribute to an in-
combination effect with the emissions from the proposed Project.  
HRA Screening Matrices for Abergelli Power Project 
 
 
Appendix 1 Screening Matrices 
Page 8 
 
HRA Screening Matrix 3 Crymlyn Bog Ramsar 
Name of European site and designation: Crymlyn Bog Ramsar 
Ramsar designation has no EU Code, [SAC] EU Code for this site is: UK0020020 
Distance to NSIP: 6.7km 
 
European site 
features 
Likely effects of NSIP 
 
Effect 
Air quality 
In combination effects 
Stage of 
Development  
C 
O 
D 
C 
O 
D 
Topogenous fen 
 
a 
 
 
b 
 
Slender cotton-
grass (Eriophorum 
gracile) 
 
a 
 
 
b 
 
Peatland 
invertebrate 
assemblage, 
including fen raft 
spider (Dolomedes 
plantarius) 
 
a 
 
 
b 
 
Plant species 
assemblage 
 
a 
 
 
b 
 
 
 
 
HRA Screening Matrices for Abergelli Power Project 
 
 
Appendix 1 Screening Matrices 
Page 9 
Evidence supporting conclusions: 
 
a. Table 1-6, Table 1-8, Table 1-9 and Table 1-10 of the No Significant Effects report show the potential effects of NOx, 
nitrogen and nitrogen acidity on the most sensitive receptor of Crymlyn Bog SAC (bog and transition mire); this is more 
sensitive than the features listed for Crymlyn Bog Ramsar. Section 1.5.4 – 1.5.7 states that the process contributions are 
extremely small for nitrogen (<0.01kgN/ha/yr) and the current background levels for nitrogen are in exceedance of the 
critical loads for the most sensitive receptor at the site the increase is concluded not to have a LSE on the site due to the 
extremely low level of increase. Section 1.5.9 states that the process contribution for nitrogen acidity deposition is zero.  
b. Table 1-7 and Sections 1.6.3 – 1.6.5 provide a summary of the projects and plans provided by the local authority for an in-
combination assessment. One project that was refused planning has point source emissions; the promoter has stated they 
do not intend to resubmit the application or to appeal against the refusal. There is a point source emitter within the Local 
Development Plan; however there is no information on the plan since it is a preferred location only and as such it is not 
possible to obtain air quality data. It is concluded that there are no point source emitters that would contribute to an in-
combination effect with the emissions from the proposed Project.  
HRA Screening Matrices for Abergelli Power Project 
 
 
Appendix 1 Screening Matrices 
Page 10 
 
HRA Screening Matrix 4 Burry Inlet SPA 
Name of European site and designation: Burry Inlet SPA 
EU Code:  UK9015011 
Distance to NSIP: 8.6km 
 
European site 
features 
Likely effects of NSIP 
 
Effect 
Air quality 
In combination effects 
Stage of 
Development  
C 
O 
D 
C 
O 
D 
Pioneer, low-mid, 
mid-upper 
saltmarshes 
 
a 
 
 
b 
 
Acid grassland 
 
a 
 
 
b 
 
Calcareous 
grassland (using 
base cation) 
 
a 
 
 
b 
 
Freshwater 
 
a 
 
 
b 
 
 
Evidence supporting conclusions: 
 
a. Table 1-6, Table 1-8, Table 1-9 and Table 1-10 of the No Significant Effects report show the potential effects of NOx, 
nitrogen and nitrogen acidity on the most sensitive receptor of Burry Inlet SPA. Section 1.5.2 – 1.5.3 states that the process 
contributions are extremely small for nitrogen (<0.01kgN/ha/yr) and the current background levels for nitrogen are within 
the critical loads for the most sensitive receptor at the site the increase is concluded not to have a LSE on the site. Section 
HRA Screening Matrices for Abergelli Power Project 
 
 
Appendix 1 Screening Matrices 
Page 11 
1.5.10 states that the process contribution for nitrogen acidity deposition is so low (<0.01keqH+/ha/yr) that it will not cause 
an exceedance of the critical load for nitrogen acidity at the site.  
b. 
Table 1-7 and Sections 1.6.3 – 1.6.5 provide a summary of the projects and plans provided by the local authority for an in-
combination assessment. One project that was refused planning has point source emissions; the promoter has stated they 
do not intend to resubmit the application or to appeal the refusal. There is a point source emitter within the Local 
Development Plan; however there is no information on the plan since it is a preferred location only and as such it is not 
possible to obtain air quality data. It is concluded that there are no point source emitters that would contribute to an in-
combination effect with the emissions from the proposed Project.  
HRA Screening Matrices for Abergelli Power Project 
 
 
Appendix 1 Screening Matrices 
Page 12 
HRA Screening Matrix 5 Burry Inlet Ramsar 
Name of European site and designation: Burry Inlet Ramsar 
Ramsar designation has no EU Code, [SPA] EU Code for this site is:  UK9015011 
Distance to NSIP: 8.6km 
 
European site 
features 
Likely effects of NSIP 
 
Effect 
Air quality 
In combination effects 
Stage of 
Development  
C 
O 
D 
C 
O 
D 
Tidal flats 
 
a 
 
 
b 
 
Salt marshes 
 
a 
 
 
b 
 
Estuarine waters 
 
a 
 
 
b 
 
Sand/shingle 
shore (including 
dune systems) 
 
a 
 
 
b 
 
Rocky shores 
 
a 
 
 
b 
 
 
 
Evidence supporting conclusions: 
 
c. Table 1-6, Table 1-8, Table 1-9 and Table 1-10 of the No Significant Effects report show the potential effects of NOx, 
nitrogen and nitrogen acidity on the most sensitive receptor of Burry Inlet Ramsar. Section 1.5.2 – 1.5.3 states that the 
process contributions are extremely small for nitrogen (<0.01kgN/ha/yr) and the current background levels for nitrogen are 
within the critical loads for the most sensitive receptor at the site the increase is concluded not to have a LSE on the site. 
Section 1.5.10 states that the process contribution for nitrogen acidity deposition is so low (<0.01keqH+/ha/yr) that it will 
not cause an exceedance of the critical load for nitrogen acidity at the site.  
HRA Screening Matrices for Abergelli Power Project 
 
 
Appendix 1 Screening Matrices 
Page 13 
d. 
Table 1-7 and Sections 1.6.3 – 1.6.5 provide a summary of the projects and plans provided by the local authority for an in-
combination assessment. One project that was refused planning has point source emissions; the promoter has stated they 
do not intend to resubmit the application or to appeal against the refusal. There is a point source emitter within the Local 
Development Plan; however there is no information on the plan since it is a preferred location only and as such it is not 
possible to obtain air quality data. It is concluded that there are no point source emitters that would contribute to an in-
combination effect with the emissions from the proposed Project.  
 
