Drax Group 
Environment Policy
At Drax, we take our responsibilities to 
society and the environment seriously.  
We consider that compliance with 
Environmental legislation is the minimum 
acceptable standard for environmental 
management and shall always ensure  
full compliance.  
We will manage, monitor and reduce the 
environmental impacts caused by our 
business through continual improvement 
of our operations, wherever practical.  
This Group Environment Policy sets out 
what we’ll achieve, and each business unit 
will reflect how they will enact this in their 
environmental implementation statements.  
This policy applies to all sites where  
we operate.  
Together, all colleagues share  
responsibility for the prevention of 
environmental incidents and in achieving  
an incident-free performance. 
Page 1 of 2
www.drax.com
DG-ENV-POL-1201        Version 1.2        Implementation Date 01/05/23        Review Date 01/05/24
Signed by Will Gardiner, CEO and Philip Cox, Drax Group Plc Board Chair - May 2023
We care about what matters…
We will strive to continuously improve our 
environmental performance. 
We will pay particular attention to emissions 
to air, discharges to water, disposal of waste 
and the use of natural resources. 
Where our operations have a material environmental 
impact, we will ensure our environmental management 
systems align with the international system standard, 
ISO 14001. 
We’ll create a work setting that promotes the 
importance of everyone’s understanding and 
contribution to environmental stewardship.
We’re a ‘can do’ kind of place…
We’ll make sure we apply systematic ways 
to identify environmental risks, and a 
hierarchy of control to mitigate them. 
We’ll fully comply with all applicable 
environmental requirements, legal and 
otherwise, wherever we conduct business. 
We’ll demonstrate visible leadership, with clear 
accountabilities and responsibilities for environmental 
performance at all levels of the organisation. 
We’ll encourage participation, and always recognise 
and reward positive behaviours.
We see things differently…
We’ll seek out fresh perspectives to 
proactively identify environmental hazards 
and reduce, assess and rethink risks, and 
how we control them. 
We’re always learning, so we can improve the 
effectiveness and efficiency of our environmental 
management systems. 
We’ll assess and mitigate potential environmental 
impacts of organisational and technical changes by a 
structured management process.
We listen carefully…
We’ll consult, and seek participation from, 
colleagues on our environmental risks so 
we can proactively look for ways to improve 
our performance. 
We do what we say we’ll do… 
We’ll make sure our managers understand and 
fulfil their environmental duties. 
Our objectives are risk-based, targeted, 
measurable and timebound, and we’ll integrate 
these into our business and project planning. 
Regular reviews of performance will  
help us identify opportunities for  
continual improvement. 
We’ll communicate regularly with our internal and 
external interested parties and work collaboratively with 
them to develop and share innovative and sustainable 
solutions that help achieve our shared vision.
We’ll provide training and instructions so that everyone 
is able to understand what environmental risks within 
their work setting. 
We’ll make sure everyone has the appropriate skills and 
competence to safely carry out the job that’s expected 
of them.  
We will review our performance with internal and 
external audits.
Page 2 of 2
