Chapter 13
Historic Environment
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 13: HISTORIC ENVIRONMENT 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
13-1 
 
CONTENTS 
13. Historic Environment .......................................................................................... 2 
13.1 Introduction ............................................................................................... 2 
13.2 Changes since the 2014 PEIR .................................................................. 2 
13.3 Legislation, policy and guidance................................................................ 3 
13.4 Methodology .............................................................................................. 9 
13.5 Baseline Environment ............................................................................. 15 
13.6 Embedded Mitigation ............................................................................... 22 
13.7 Assessment of Effects ............................................................................. 22 
13.8 Mitigation and Monitoring ........................................................................ 26 
13.9 Residual Effects ...................................................................................... 27 
13.10 Cumulative Effects ................................................................................. 28 
13.11 Conclusion and Next Steps ................................................................... 29 
13.12 References ............................................................................................ 29 
 
TABLES 
Table 13-1: Summary of consultation responses that have informed the scope and 
methodology of the historic environment assessment .............................................. 10 
Table 13-2: Value/sensitivity of historic assets ......................................................... 12 
Table 13-3: Criteria for magnitude of harm (impact) ................................................. 13 
Table 13-4: Significance of effect ............................................................................. 14 
Table 13-5: Summary of historic assets ................................................................... 16 
Table 13-6: Nature and Significance of the Impact of Construction (Gas Connection) on 
Historic Assets .......................................................................................................... 22 
Table 13-7: Nature and Significance of the Impact of Operation on Historic Assets . 25 
Table 13-8: Historic Environment: summary of construction effects ......................... 28 
 
FIGURES 
Figure 13.1: Historic assets in the 1 km Study Area 
Figure 13.2: Designated historic assets in the 5 km Study Area 
 
APPENDICES 
Appendix 13.1: Gazetteer of historic assets 
 
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 13: HISTORIC ENVIRONMENT 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
13-2 
 
13. 
Historic Environment 
13.1 
Introduction 
13.1.1 This chapter of the PEIR provides an assessment of the effects on the historic 
environment arising from the construction, operation, and decommissioning of the 
Project.  
13.1.2 Historic assets include Scheduled Monuments, Listed Buildings, Registered 
Historic Parks and Gardens, Registered Historic Landscapes, Conservation Areas, 
upstanding archaeological earthworks and buried remains, and historic hedgerows. 
For the ease of presentation in this document, all cultural heritage features are 
referred to as ‘historic assets’. 
13.1.3 A detailed description of Project and Project Site is provided in Chapter 3: Project 
and Site Description. A glossary of terms and list of abbreviations used in this 
chapter is provided at the start of this PEIR.  
a) 
Objectives of the assessment 
13.1.4 The purpose of this chapter is to outline the historic environment resource of the 
Project Site and its environs, to identify potential constraints to the Project, to 
assess the likely significant impacts on historic environment receptors, to formulate 
mitigation measures where a significant impact is identified, and to quantify any 
residual effects. 
13.1.5 The following tasks were undertaken for this assessment: 
 Legislation and policy context review; 
 Consultation with statutory and non-statutory bodies to identify interests and 
concerns regarding cultural heritage; 
 Desk-based study to obtain baseline archaeological and historical data; 
 Site survey to augment desk-based baseline data; 
 Identification of the potential impacts of the Project and assessment of their 
significance; and 
 Formulation of mitigation of potential impacts. 
13.2 
Changes since the 2014 PEIR 
13.2.1 The main updates to this chapter since the 2014 PEIR have been in response to 
the change in stack height (to a maximum of 45 m instead of 40 m) and reduction in 
stacks as outlined in Section 3.2 in Chapter 3: Project and Site Description. 
Updates have also been made to the desk study due to the length of time since the 
previous update and to undertake further consultation to inform and update 
archaeological advisors. These changes have not changed the findings of this 
chapter.  
13.2.2 This assessment has therefore been compiled with further and on-going 
consultation with the archaeological advisors to CCS (the Glamorgan-Gwent 
Archaeological Trust (GGAT) Curatorial Section) and Cadw (the Welsh 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 13: HISTORIC ENVIRONMENT 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
13-3 
 
Government’s Historic Environment Service). Full details of the consultations 
undertaken since 2014 can be found in Section 13.4.4 (b). 
13.3 
Legislation, policy and guidance  
13.3.1 This section identifies and describes legislation, policy and guidance of relevance 
to the assessment of the potential impacts associated with the construction, 
operation and decommissioning of the Project, upon historic assets. 
13.3.2 Legislation and policy has been considered on a national, regional, and local level, 
although no relevant regional-level legislation or policy was identified. The following 
is relevant to the assessment as it has influenced the sensitivity of receptors and 
requirements for mitigation or the scope and/or methodology of the Environmental 
Impact Assessment (EIA). 
a) 
National 
i. 
Overarching National Policy Statement for Energy (NPS EN1; Ref. 13.1) 
13.3.3 Paragraph 5.8.1 of National Policy Statement for Energy (NPS) EN1 states that the 
construction, operation, and decommissioning of energy infrastructure has the 
potential to result in adverse impacts on the historic environment. Paragraph 5.8.2 
defines the historic environment as including all aspects of the environment 
resulting from the interaction between people and places through time, including all 
surviving physical remains of past human activity, whether visible, buried or 
submerged, landscaped and planted or managed flora. Those elements of the 
historic environment that hold value to this and future generations because of their 
historic, archaeological, architectural or artistic interest are called heritage assets. 
The NPS defines a ‘heritage asset’ as any building, monument, site, place, area or 
landscape, or any combination of these. The sum of the heritage interests that a 
‘heritage asset’ holds is referred to as its significance. 
13.3.4 Paragraph 5.8.3 of the NPS discusses ‘Heritage Assets’ that merit designation and 
identifies these as assets falling within the following categories:  
 A World Heritage Site;  
 Scheduled Monument;  
 Protected Wreck Site;  
 Protected Military Remains;  
 Listed Building;  
 Registered Park and Garden;  
 Conservation Area; and  
 Registered Historic Landscape (Wales only). 
13.3.5 Paragraph 5.8.4 of the NPS goes on to highlight that there are heritage assets with 
archaeological interest that are not currently designated as scheduled monuments, 
but are demonstrably of equivalent significance. These include: (i) those that have 
yet to be formally assessed for designation; (ii) those that have been assessed as 
being designatable but the SoS has decided not to designate; and (iii) those that 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 13: HISTORIC ENVIRONMENT 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
13-4 
 
are incapable of being designated by virtue of being outside the scope of the 
Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Areas Act 1979. 
13.3.6 In paragraph 5.8.5, the NPS notes that the absence of designation for such 
heritage assets does not indicate lower significance. If the evidence before the SoS 
indicates that a non-designated heritage asset of the type described in 5.8.4 of the 
NPS may be affected by the proposed development then the heritage asset should 
be considered subject to the same policy considerations as those that apply to 
designated heritage assets. 
13.3.7 Paragraph 5.8.6 dictates that the SoS should also consider the impacts on other 
non-designated heritage assets, as identified either through the development plan-
making process (local listing) or through the SoS’s decision-making process on the 
basis of clear evidence that the assets have a heritage significance that merits 
consideration in its decisions, even though those assets are of lesser value than 
designated assets. 
13.3.8 Paragraph 5.8.8 of the NPS states that, as part of the applicant's assessment, the 
applicant should provide a description of the significance of the heritage assets 
affected by the proposed development and the contribution of their setting to that 
significance. The level of detail should be proportionate to the importance of the 
heritage assets and no more than is sufficient to understand the potential impact of 
the proposal on the heritage asset. As a minimum, the applicant should have 
consulted the relevant Historic Environment Record (HER) and assessed the 
heritage assets themselves, using expertise where necessary according to the 
proposed development's impact. 
13.3.9 Paragraph 5.8.9 of the NPS is concerned with heritage assets with archaeological 
interest and states that the applicant should carry out appropriate desk-based 
assessment and, where such desk-based research is insufficient to properly assess 
the interest, a field evaluation. 
Infrastructure Planning (Decisions) Regulations 2010 
13.3.10 Section 104(2)(c) of the PA 2008 provides that in deciding an application under the 
PA 2008, the SoS must have regard to any "any matters prescribed in relation to 
development of the description to which the application relates". 
13.3.11 Regulation 3 of the Infrastructure Planning (Decisions) Regulations 2010 sets out 
such a prescribed matter. It provides that: 
1) When deciding an application which affects a listed building or its setting, the 
decision-maker must have regard to the desirability of preserving the listed 
building or its setting or any features of special architectural or historic interest 
which it possesses. 
2) When deciding an application relating to a conservation area, the decision-
maker must have regard to the desirability of preserving or enhancing the 
character or appearance of that area. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 13: HISTORIC ENVIRONMENT 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
13-5 
 
3) When deciding an application for development consent which affects or is likely 
to affect a scheduled monument or its setting, the decision-maker must have 
regard to the desirability of preserving the scheduled monument or its setting. 
13.3.12 In carrying out this assessment, APL has had regard to these considerations. 
The Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Areas Act 1979  
13.3.13 The Act (Ref. 13.2) imposes a requirement for Scheduled Monument Consent for 
any works of demolition, repair and alteration that might affect a Scheduled 
Monument. The Act sets out a presumption in favour of preservation in-situ 
concerning sites and monuments of national importance.   
The Planning (Listed Buildings and Conservation Areas) Act 1990 
13.3.14 The Act (Ref. 13.3) sets out the principal statutory provisions which must be 
considered in the determination of any application affecting either listed buildings or 
conservation areas.  
13.3.15 Section 66 of the Act states that, in considering whether to grant planning 
permission for development that affects a listed building or its setting, the local 
planning authority or the Secretary of State shall have special regard to the 
desirability of preserving the building or its setting or any features of special 
architectural or historic interest it possesses. By virtue of Section 1(5) of the Act, a 
listed building includes any object or structure within its curtilage. 
13.3.16 Section 66 applies in relation to a consideration of whether to grant ‘planning 
permission’. ‘Planning permission’ is defined under Section 91(2) of that Act as 
having the same meaning as in the principal Act (which is defined as the Town and 
Country Planning Act 1990 (TCPA 1990)). ‘Planning permission’ is defined under 
the TCPA 1990 as a permission under Part III of that Act. Under Part III of that Act, 
planning permission is required for the carrying out of any development of land 
(Section 57). Section 33(1)(a) of the PA 2008 provides that, to the extent that 
development consent is required for a development, planning permission is not 
required under the TCPA 1990. Therefore, Section 66 does not apply to decisions 
under the PA 2008.   
13.3.17 Section 66 will apply for applications made under the Town and Country Planning 
Act 1990 for the Gas Connection and/or the Electrical Connection.  
13.3.18 Although APL considers that Section 66 does not apply to decisions under the PA 
2008, it has taken into account the principles from the Barnwell Manor Court of 
Appeal case in undertaking this assessment (see Barnwell Manor Wind Energy Ltd 
v E. Northants DC English Heritage, National Trust & SSCLG [2014] EWCA Civ 
137). This is because, pursuant to Section 104(2)(d) of the PA 2008, the Secretary 
of State must have regard to “any other matters which the Secretary of State thinks 
are both important and relevant”. 
13.3.19 In the Barnwell Manor case, the Court of Appeal held that decision makers should 
give 'considerable importance and weight' to the desirability of preserving the 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 13: HISTORIC ENVIRONMENT 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
13-6 
 
setting of listed buildings when carrying out the required balancing exercise 
pursuant to Section 66(1). 
The Hedgerow Regulations 1997 
13.3.20 The Hedgerow Regulations (Ref. 13.4) allow for provisions to be made for, or in 
connection with, the protection of important hedgerows in England or Wales from 
activities that are not necessarily subject to planning consent. The identification of a 
hedgerow as ‘important’ was to be determined in accordance with criteria laid out in 
Hedgerow Regulations 1997.   
13.3.21 The regulations state that a hedgerow is important if it is at least 30 years old and 
meets one of the following criteria: 
 Marking a boundary of a historic parish or township (prior to 1850); 
 Associated with a Scheduled Monument or site on the Sites and Monuments 
Record (now HER) at the relevant date; 
 Marks the boundary of a pre-1600 AD estate or manor, or associated with a 
building of such a manor or estate; 
 Part of a field system pre-dating the Inclosure Act (1845); or 
 Related to a building or feature associated with a system pre-dating the 
Inclosure Act (1845) and that system is substantially complete or part of field 
system where the pattern was identified in 1997 as a key landscape 
characteristic. 
Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2016  
13.3.22 The Act (Ref. 13.5) makes amendments to the Ancient Monuments and 
Archaeological Areas Act 1979 and to the Planning (Listed Buildings and 
Conservation Areas) Act 1990 as they apply to Wales. The Act provides a better 
means of protecting scheduled monuments and listed buildings in Wales, aids in 
the management of the historic environment and imposes a greater degree of 
transparency and responsibility concerning decisions affecting the historic 
environment. It also makes provisions for the compilation of historic place names, a 
historic environment record for each local authority in Wales, and for the 
establishment of the Advisory Panel for the Welsh Historic Environment. 
Planning Policy Wales 2016 
13.3.23 The Welsh Government’s Planning Policy Wales (PPW 2016; Edition 9, November 
2016) (Ref. 13.6) aims to protect the historic environment, including archaeology 
and ancient monuments, listed buildings, conservation areas and historic parks, 
gardens and landscapes. This national policy provides guidance to local planning 
authorities during the determination of planning applications and makes it clear that 
there is no need for local plans to duplicate national policy. 
13.3.24 Chapter 6 of PPW 2016 specifically relates to the protection of the historic 
environment in Wales. The objectives of PPW 2016 are to: 
 Conserve and enhance the historic environment, which is a finite and non-
renewable resource; 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 13: HISTORIC ENVIRONMENT 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
13-7 
 
 Recognise its contribution to economic vitality and culture, civic pride, local 
distinctiveness and the quality of Welsh life, which must be maintained for 
future generations; 
 Base decisions on an understanding of the significance of historic assets and to 
contribute to the recording of these assets and making these publically 
available; and 
 Protect World Heritage Sites, safeguard the character of historic buildings, 
preserve or enhance conservation areas, historic parks and gardens and 
historic landscapes, and to conserve archaeological remains for their role in 
education, leisure and the economy. 
Technical Advice Notice (TAN) 24 (to PPW 2016)  
13.3.25 TAN 24 (Ref. 13.7) is supplement to PPW 2016 which details the advice regarding 
archaeology and the planning process within Wales. The purpose of this TAN is to 
provide technical guidance on how the planning system considers the historic 
environment during development plan preparation, and decision-making on 
planning and Listed Building applications. This TAN provides specific guidance on 
how the following aspects of the historic environment should be considered: World 
Heritage Sites; Scheduled Monuments; archaeological remains; Listed Buildings; 
Conservation Areas; historic parks and gardens; historic landscapes; and historic 
assets of special local interest. 
b) Local 
City and County of Swansea (CCS) Unitary Development Plan (UDP) 
13.3.26 The CCS UDP (as detailed in Chapter 2: Regulatory and Policy Background) 
(Ref. 13.8) was adopted in November 2008 and sets out the key policy relating to 
the historic environment, as follows. 
13.3.27 Policy EV6 states that the Council will seek to protect, preserve and enhance 
Scheduled Monuments and their settings, and also unscheduled archaeological 
sites and monuments and their settings. Applicants are required to submit an 
assessment which enables the historic environment baseline, the development 
impact, and the proposed mitigation to be clearly understood. 
13.3.28 Policy EV9 states that development within or adjacent to a conservation area will 
only be permitted if it would preserve or enhance the character or appearance of 
the conservation area or its setting. 
13.3.29 Policy EV11 states that development that would harm the character or setting of 
registered Historic Parks and Gardens or the character of Historic Landscapes will 
not be permitted. 
13.3.30 Policy EV12 states that character of lanes and public paths that contribute to the 
amenity, natural, and historic qualities of an area will be protected. Development 
proposals that include requirements to set back improvement lines, remove 
hedgerows, and provide new access and visibility splays will be resisted where this 
would result in a loss of character.In rural areas the design of any necessary works 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 13: HISTORIC ENVIRONMENT 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
13-8 
 
should be appropriate to the character of the area and should not detract from the 
landscape or suburbanise the area. 
City and County of Swansea Deposit Local Development Plan 
13.3.31 The City and County of Swansea Deposit Local Development Plan (Ref. 13.8) sets 
out the key policy relating to the historic environment (as discussed in detailed in 
Chapter 2: Regulatory and Policy Background), and  summarised below:. 
13.3.32 Strategic Policy HC1 – Historic and Cultural Environment, states that the County’s 
distinctive historic and cultural environment will be preserved or enhanced by: 
 Requiring high quality design standards in all development proposals to 
respond positively to local character and distinctiveness; 
 Identifying and safeguarding heritage assets, sites and their settings; 
 Supporting heritage and cultural led regeneration schemes; and 
 Safeguarding and promoting use of the Welsh language. 
13.3.33 The above policy therefore seeks to secure the sustainable management, 
preservation and enhancement of the character and appearance of the historic and 
cultural environment, whilst supporting appropriate heritage-led regeneration 
proposals to release the social and economic potential of these assets. 
13.3.34 Strategic Policy HC2 – Preservation or Enhancement of Buildings and Features 
states that the County’s buildings and features of historic importance will be 
preserved or enhanced through the following measures: 
 Proposals for alteration and/or extension to a listed building or its curtilage must 
ensure that the special architectural character or historic interest is preserved; 
 The change of use of a listed building or its curtilage will only be permitted 
where this contributes towards the retention of a building or its sustainable 
reuse without having an adverse effect on its character, special interest or 
structural integrity; 
 Permission will not be granted for the total or substantial demolition of a listed 
building, or an unlisted locally important building that makes a positive 
contribution to the character or appearance of an area, unless there is the 
strongest justification and convincing evidence that the proposal is necessary; 
 Proposals which have a relationship to a listed building or its curtilage must 
ensure that the setting is preserved; 
 Development within or adjacent to a conservation area will only be permitted if 
it would preserve and enhance the character or appearance of the conservation 
area or its setting. New development in such locations must also be of a high 
standard of design, respond to the area’s special characteristics, and pay 
particular regard to: 
 Important views, vistas, street scenes, roofscapes, trees, open spaces, gaps 
and other features that contribute to the character or appearance of the 
conservation area; 
 The retention of historically significant boundaries or other elements that 
contribute to the established form of development; 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 13: HISTORIC ENVIRONMENT 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
13-9 
 
 The relationship to existing buildings and spaces, and grain of development; 
 Scale, height and massing, architectural design, established architectural 
detailing, the use of materials, boundary treatment, and public realm materials; 
and 
 Ensuring that development does not have a significant adverse effect upon 
historic assets of special local interest. 
13.3.35 The policy seeks to ensure that the conservation of the whole built environment is 
taken into consideration in the determination of applications for both listed building 
consent and conservation area consent. It also seeks to ensure that any new 
development accords with the special architectural and historic interest of 
designated conservation areas and their settings. Whilst the character or 
appearance of conservation areas must be a major consideration, it does not 
preclude carefully considered contemporary design. Development proposals will be 
judged for their effect on the character and appearance of conservation areas. It 
must be noted that this is an emerging policy. 
c) 
Best practice guidance documents 
Conservation Principles for the Sustainable Management of the Historic 
Environment in Wales 
13.3.36 These principles (Ref. 13.10) provide the basis upon which Cadw discharges its 
statutory duties, and advises and makes decisions regarding changes made to 
historic assets. Cadw encourages the use of the principles to assess any potential 
impacts on the significance of any historic asset during potential developments. 
The Setting of Historic Assets in Wales  
13.3.37 This document (Ref. 13.11) outlines the definition of the term ‘setting’ and how this 
can contribute to the significance of a historic asset. It also explains the standards 
used to assess the potential impact of a development within the setting of World 
Heritage Sites, ancient monuments (scheduled and unscheduled), listed buildings, 
registered historic parks and gardens, and conservation areas. These principles 
can apply to all types of historic assets regardless of their designation.  
Standard and Guidance for Historic Environment Desk-based Assessments 
13.3.38 This assessment  (Ref. 13.12) complies with the professional guidance laid out by 
the Chartered Institute for Archaeologists Standard and Guidance for Historic 
Environment Desk-based Assessments. 
13.4 
Methodology 
a) 
Scope of the assessment 
13.4.1 The scope of this assessment has been determined through a formal EIA scoping 
process undertaken with the Planning Inspectorate (PINS). Comments raised on 
the EIA Scoping Report have been taken into account in the development of the 
assessment methodology and, where relevant, these are detailed within this 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 13: HISTORIC ENVIRONMENT 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
13-10 
 
chapter. Responses to the comments raised in the EIA Scoping Opinion can be 
found in Appendix 4.1. 
13.4.2 The sources consulted in the course of this assessment are as follows: 
 Cadw (scheduled monuments, listed buildings, registered historic parks and 
gardens, and registered historic landscapes); 
 Historic Environment Record (HER) curated by GGAT (non-designated assets: 
enquiry no. 5654); 
 National Monuments Record (NMR) curated by the Royal Commission on the 
Ancient and Historical Monuments of Wales (RCAHMW) (non-designated 
assets: enquiry no. RC17-0698); 
 Central Register of Air Photography for Wales (CRAPW) (aerial photographs: 
enquiry no. W-AP-PR 17-200); 
 Natural Resources Wales (NRW) (LiDAR); and 
 Published sources, unpublished reports and historic maps. 
b) 
Consultation 
13.4.3 The scope of the assessment has been informed by ongoing consultation with 
statutory consultees throughout the design and assessment process, including: 
 Cadw (designated historic assets, and registered historic parks, gardens and 
landscapes); and 
 Glamorgan-Gwent Archaeological Trust (Curatorial Section) in its capacity as 
the archaeological advisors to CCS. 
13.4.4 A summary of the comments raised and responses are detailed in Table 13-1. 
Table 13-1: Summary of consultation responses that have informed the scope and methodology of the 
historic environment assessment 
Consultee 
Date 
Comment 
Response 
SoS 
Scoping 
Opinion 
(paragraph 
3.91)  
August 
2014 
The SoS recommends the inclusion of aerial 
photographs within search information and 
draws the applicant’s attention to the 
comments of Cadw in this regard.  
Aerial photographs held 
by Central Register of Air 
Photography for Wales 
and LiDAR data held by 
NRW 
was 
used 
in 
searches as advised. 
SoS 
Scoping 
Opinion 
(paragraph 
3.92) 
August 
2014 
The SoS directs the applicant to Cadw’s 
comment regarding the referenced Standard 
and 
Guidance 
for 
Archaeological 
Assessment (2011) being superseded by the 
Standard 
and 
Guidance 
for 
historic 
environment desk-based assessment (2012).  
Current CIfA guidance 
(2017) was used.  
 
SoS 
Scoping 
Opinion 
(paragraph 
August 
2014 
The SoS notes the comments of Cadw in 
regard to the assessment on the setting of 
designated assets, it is recommended that 
photographs from each asset towards the 
development be produced and where an 
The 
current 
guidance 
document, 
Setting 
of 
Historic Assets in Wales 
(Cadw 2017), was used 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 13: HISTORIC ENVIRONMENT 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
13-11 
 
Consultee 
Date 
Comment 
Response 
3.93) 
adverse impact is thought likely to occur a 
photomontage should be produced. 
during this assessment. 
SoS 
Scoping 
Opinion 
(paragraph 
3.94) 
August 
2014 
The SoS directs the applicant to Cadw’s 
comment 
regarding 
the 
reference 
to 
Registered Battlefields; as not applicable in 
Wales this reference should be removed, but 
the ES should include consideration of 
potential impacts to Registered Historic 
Landscapes. 
Registered 
Historic 
Landscapes 
formed 
a 
part 
of 
the 
baseline 
search 
undertaken for 
this 
 
assessment. 
Registered 
battlefields 
were omitted. 
SoS 
Scoping 
Opinion 
(paragraph 
3.95) 
August 
2014 
The SoS recommends that tranquillity be 
added to the list of factors considered 
relevant when assessing impacts on setting. 
Cadw guidance note for 
setting (2017) refers to a 
variety of attributes of 
setting, 
of 
which 
tranquility is one (see 
para 13.4.16).  
c) 
Study area 
13.4.5 This assessment adopts three ‘Study Areas’, as follows: 
 Project Site; 
 1 km Study Area (1 km buffer around the Project Site); and 
 5 km Study Area (5 km buffer around the Project Site). 
13.4.6 A full suite of baseline data for both designated and non-designated assets has 
been gathered for the Project Site and 1 km Study Area (Figure 13.1). This 
provides information about all known assets within the Project Site (i.e. those 
potentially impacted by the development) and the broader context in which they 
exist. These data also provide a potential indication of the date and character of 
any undiscovered archaeology that may be present. The decision to adopt a 1 km 
Study Area is based on professional judgement. 
13.4.7 The 5 km Study Area enables the assessment of effects upon the setting of 
designated historic assets (Figure 13.2). Only data for designated assets has been 
acquired for this study area. The Zone of Theoretical Visibility (ZTV) for the Project 
has been established by Chapter 11: Landscape and Visual Effects (Figure 11.7) 
and has been refined in the field by both the landscape architect and the 
archaeologist undertaking the assessment. The field visits enable the true situation 
on the ground to be appreciated, particularly in terms of the role of tree cover and 
other vertical landscape elements which dictate the availability of long-distance 
views. This has been used to help define the potential visibility from heritage assets 
within the 5 km Study Area used within this chapter. 
13.4.8 In subsequent parts of this chapter, where reference is made to the ‘Study Areas’, 
this applies to all ground within the Project Site, 1 km and 5 km study areas. 
 
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 13: HISTORIC ENVIRONMENT 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
13-12 
 
d) 
Site visit 
13.4.9 The Project Site and the 1 km Study Area were visited on 8th November 2017. The 
purpose of this survey was to assess the character of known historic assets, 
identify any additional visible assets, and to assess possible factors which may 
affect the survival or condition of known or potential assets. Additionally, the 5 km 
Study Area was visited in order to allow an assessment of the potential for impacts 
on the significance of the setting of selected designated historic assets. 
e) 
Sensitivity 
i. 
Sensitivity of historic assets 
13.4.10 This assessment adopts the criteria for value set out in the Design Manual for 
Roads and Bridges (DMRB), Volume 11 Section 3 Part 2, Annex 5 Archaeological 
Remains, Annex 6 Historic Buildings and Annex 7 Historic Landscape (Ref. 13.13), 
Table 13-2). The value of a historic asset reflects its significance and, therefore, its 
sensitivity to change. 
13.4.11 The Cadw document Conservation Principles (Ref. 13. 13.11) offers further 
complementary guidance relating to the assessment of asset value. It states that 
cultural heritage significance is based upon a set of prescribed values: aesthetic; 
communal; historic; and evidential. In order to identify the heritage value of an 
asset, its history, fabric, and character must first be understood. The relative 
significance of the different values then needs to be considered. It will be necessary 
to compare the values of the asset under consideration with others in the locality, 
region or even nationally, depending on its importance. 
Table 13-2: Value/sensitivity of historic assets 
Value/Sensitivity 
Asset type 
Very High 
 Assets described as being of universal international importance, such as 
World Heritage Sites 
 Assets that contribute significantly to acknowledged international 
research objectives 
 Buildings of recognised international importance 
 Historic landscapes of international value, whether designated or not 
 Extremely 
well 
preserved 
historic 
landscapes 
with 
exceptional 
coherence, time-depth or other critical factor(s) 
High 
 Scheduled Monuments with extant remains, or sites and remains of 
comparable quality 
 Assets that contribute significantly to acknowledged national research 
objectives 
 Grade I and Grade II* Listed Buildings 
 Other listed buildings that can be shown to have exceptional qualities in 
their fabric or historical association not adequately reflected in their 
listing grade, including non-designated structures of clear national 
importance 
 Conservation areas containing very important buildings 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 13: HISTORIC ENVIRONMENT 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
13-13 
 
Value/Sensitivity 
Asset type 
 Designated and non-designated historic landscapes of outstanding 
interest of high quality and importance, and of demonstrable national 
value 
Medium 
 Designated or undesignated assets that contribute to regional research 
objectives 
 Grade II Listed Buildings 
 Historic (unlisted) buildings that can be shown to have exceptional 
qualities in their fabric or historic association 
 Conservation areas containing important buildings 
 Historic Townscape or built-up areas with historic integrity in their 
buildings, or built settings (e.g. including street furniture and other 
structures)  
 Designated special historic landscapes and non-designated landscapes 
that would justify special historic landscape designation, landscapes of 
regional value 
Low 
 Sites of low importance 
 Assets compromised by poor preservation and/ or poor survival of 
contextual associations 
 Locally listed buildings 
 Historic (unlisted) buildings of modest quality in their fabric or historical 
association 
 Historic Townscape or built-up areas of limited historic integrity in their 
buildings, or built settings (e.g. including street furniture and other 
structures) 
 Undesignated historic landscapes 
 Historic landscapes with importance to local interest group 
Negligible 
 Assets with very little or no surviving archaeological interest 
 Buildings of no architectural or historical note; buildings of an intrusive 
character 
 Landscapes with little or no significant historical interest 
Unknown 
 Assets the importance of which has not been ascertained 
f) 
Magnitude 
13.4.12 The criteria for magnitude of harm (impact) are set out in Table 13-3. 
Table 13-3: Criteria for magnitude of harm (impact) 
Magnitude of 
harm (impact) 
Description 
High 
 Total loss or significant change in environmental factors;  
 Complete destruction of the site or feature;  
 Change to the site or feature resulting in a fundamental change in ability 
to understand and appreciate the resource and its cultural heritage or 
archaeological value/historical context and setting. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 13: HISTORIC ENVIRONMENT 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
13-14 
 
Magnitude of 
harm (impact) 
Description 
Medium 
 Significant change in environmental factors;  
 Change to the site or feature resulting in an appreciable change in ability 
to understand and appreciate the resource and its cultural heritage or 
archaeological value/historical context and setting. 
Low 
 Change to the site or feature resulting in a small change in our ability to 
understand and appreciate the resource and its cultural heritage or 
archaeological value/historical context and setting. 
Negligible 
 Negligible change or no material changes to the site or feature. No real 
change in our ability to understand and appreciate the resource and its 
cultural heritage or archaeological value/historical context and setting. 
 
g) 
Effect definitions 
13.4.13 Table 13-4 is a matrix that combines asset value with impact magnitude. Effects are 
either positive or negative, and either significant or not significant. For the purposes 
of this assessment, major and moderate impacts are considered to be significant. 
Table 13-4: Significance of effect 
Magnitude 
 
Value and sensitivity of receptor 
Very High 
High 
Medium  
Low 
Negligible 
High 
Major 
Major 
Moderate 
Moderate 
Minor 
Medium 
Major 
Moderate 
Moderate 
Minor 
Negligible 
Low 
Moderate 
Moderate 
Minor 
Negligible 
Negligible 
Negligible 
Minor 
Minor 
Negligible 
Negligible 
Negligible 
h) 
Setting of historic assets 
13.4.14 The principles of historic setting are expressed in a number of planning-related 
documents, including for Wales within Conservation Principles and the Setting of 
Historic Assets in Wales (Ref. 13.10 and Ref. 13.11). The latter also sets out a 
staged approach for the assessment of the impact of change or development within 
the setting of historic assets, as follows:  
 Stage 1: Identify the historic assets that might be affected by a proposed 
change or development; 
 Stage 2: Define and analyse the settings to understand how they contribute to 
the significance of the historic assets and, in particular, the ways in which the 
assets are understood, appreciated and experienced;  
 Stage 3: Evaluate the potential impact of a proposed change or development 
on that significance; and 
 Stage 4: If necessary, consider options to mitigate or improve the potential 
impact of a proposed change or development on that significance. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 13: HISTORIC ENVIRONMENT 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
13-15 
 
13.4.15 Beyond these broad guidelines on process, there is no detailed methodology 
prescribed for the assessment of visual impacts on cultural heritage assets in 
Wales. 
13.4.16 Factors that may contribute to the setting of a historic asset are defined as follow: 
 Functional and physical relationships with other structures/historic assets and 
how these have changed over time; 
 Topographic features that influenced its location;  
 Physical character of the surrounding landscape or townscape, including any 
formal design or land use; 
 The original layout of the historic asset and how this has changed; 
 Potential buried or archaeological elements surrounding the historic asset; 
 Views to, from and across the historic asset or place; 
 Formal or planned vistas; 
 The prominence of the historic asset in views throughout the surrounding area 
 Views associated with the aesthetic, functional or ceremonial purpose of the 
asset; for example, defensive sites, beacons or designed landscapes; 
 Historical, artistic, literary, place name, cultural or scenic associations might all 
contribute to the significance of a historic asset;  
 Other sensory elements — noise or smell associated with the historic asset; 
and 
 Tranquillity, remoteness, ‘wildness’.  
13.4.17 In respect of setting, Cadw guidelines laid out within the Setting of Historic Assets 
in Wales (Ref. 13.11) suggest that impacts be ascribed a positive, neutral or 
negative description with varying degrees of magnitude. Within this assessment, 
the same categories for magnitude of harm are applied as for all other effects 
(Table 13-3). 
13.5 
Baseline Environment 
13.5.1 The following sections describe the archaeological and historical context of the 1 
km and 5 km Study Areas and the known sites within it. Full details are contained in 
the cultural heritage gazetteer: Appendix 13.1, and the assets are shown on 
Figures 13.1 and 13.2. 
13.5.2 In the following discussion, the following asset identity codes (IDs) are used: 
 Five digit IDs with a letter suffix (w) are Primary Record Numbers (PRNs) 
recorded in the GGAT HER; 
 Five or six digit IDs without a letter suffix are National Primary Record Numbers 
(NPRNs) of the NMR;  
 Numbers preceded by the letters ‘LB’ are Listed Buildings;  
 Numbers prefixed by the letters ‘GM’ are Scheduled Ancient Monuments; and 
 Numbers prefixed by the letters ‘AB’ are new assets identified by the present 
assessment. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 13: HISTORIC ENVIRONMENT 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
13-16 
 
13.5.3 Table 13-5 summarises the number of historic assets within the Project Site, and 
within the 1 km and 5 km Study Areas. 
Table 13-5: Summary of historic assets 
Historic Asset 
Project Site 
1 km Study Area 5 km Study Area 
Scheduled Monument 
0 
1 
16 
Listed building (Grade I) 
0 
0 
1 
Listed building (Grade II*) 
0 
1 
6 
Listed Building (Grade II) 
0 
0 
45  
Listed building (all grades) 
0 
1 
52 
Non-designated asset 
0 
28 
N/A 
Conservation area 
0 
0 
2 
Registered Historic Parks and 
Gardens 
0 
0 
3 
Registered historic landscape 
0 
0 
0 
a) Palaeolithic and Mesolithic (1,000,000 – 4000 BC) 
13.5.4 Evidence for human activity during the Palaeolithic period is extremely sparse 
across Wales as a whole, with the principal find-sites being concentrated on the 
Carboniferous Limestone zone of the south-west coast and north-east Wales. The 
known settlement sites in South Wales have been discovered within caves, with no 
open sites yet recognised. The coast of Gower has yielded several very significant 
sites, but there is nothing known closer to the Study Area, nor have any stray finds 
been recovered locally. Although the Mesolithic period is somewhat better 
represented across Wales as a whole, known sites in South East Wales are once 
again concentrated in coastal areas, with few discoveries made in inland locations. 
No Mesolithic sites or finds are known within the Study Areas (Ref. 13.14). 
b) 
Neolithic and Bronze Age (4000 – 700 BC) 
13.5.5 The Neolithic period in Britain is differentiated from the preceding Mesolithic by the 
onset of a series of profound social, technological, and economic changes. The 
period coincides with the first domestication of animals and of cereal cultivation, 
and is accompanied by changes in material culture, including the development of 
ceramics and new lithic typologies. It was also a time when long-distance 
connections developed across Britain, Ireland and mainland Europe, alongside 
mechanisms of long-distance exchange, principally of lithic artefacts (Ref. 13.15 
and Ref. 13.16). From this period the evidence for human activity increases 
significantly across Wales, and it becomes possible to discuss the Study Areas 
specifically, as opposed to merely the broader regional pattern.  
13.5.6 Neolithic communities were the first to leave their mark prominently on the 
landscape through the construction of monuments, which have traditionally 
dominated interpretations of the period. The emergence of monumental 
architecture provides evidence for new forms of social organisation and complexity, 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 13: HISTORIC ENVIRONMENT 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
13-17 
 
including ritualised mortuary activity involving formal burial deposition, ceremonial 
practices and the construction of social and cultural identities. The range of 
monument types present in South Wales is narrower than in areas such as 
Wessex, but its uplands are characterised by numerous, highly visible Neolithic and 
Bronze Age funerary and ritual monuments (Ref. 13.17) – principally but not 
exclusively in the form of cairns. The majority of cairns were funerary monuments, 
although some may have served as memorials or have marked territorial 
boundaries. Very many appear to have been located for dramatic effect, often on 
ridge crests or on the saddle of hills close to well-travelled paths (Ref. 13.18 and 
Ref. 13.19). Others had utilitarian origins, having been formed by field clearance for 
agriculture: however, dating these latter features is difficult and some could 
plausibly relate to more recent times. 
13.5.7 Within the Study Areas there are five cairns of presumed Neolithic to Bronze Age 
date that are designated as Scheduled Monuments. All are shown on Figure 13.2. 
These comprise a ring cairn on Craig Fawr (SM GM380), Pant-y-Ffa Round Cairn 
(SM GM201), Mynydd Pysgodlyn Round Barrow (SM GM202), Garn Goch Round 
Barrow (SM GM199), and a ring cairn on Tor Clawdd (SM GM353). The visual 
interrelationship of such monuments is a well-established concept as a key to 
understanding their positioning within the landscape. A study of a stone alignment 
at Bancbryn, located approximately 3 km north of Tor Clawdd (8 km from Project; 
not illustrated), posits that the inter-visibility between those stones and Hartland 
Point, on the north Devon Coast, is significant. Incorporated into this alignment is 
Tor Clawdd, which is framed to the left side of the Hartland Point (Ref. 13.18). 
13.5.8 There is no evidence for contemporary settlement within the Study Areas. 
c) 
Iron Age (700 BC – AD 43) 
13.5.9 The society that emerged in the Late Bronze Age and Iron Age was markedly 
different from its predecessor. The emergence of the hillfort points to a changing 
emphasis in the settlement pattern and to a radically altered social dynamic.   
13.5.10 Although hillforts are the dominant monument of the period within the modern 
landscape, they are known to have existed in conjunction with wider undefended 
rural settlement, of which traces are mostly ephemeral and easily destroyed by 
cultivation. As Lynch et al. comment, ‘though overshadowed by the hillforts, the 
lightly enclosed or open farmstead must have shared a close relationship with their 
more impressive counterparts’ (Ref. 13.20). Given this situation, it is reasonable to 
assume some level of settlement in the area, although its character and location 
remains unknown. 
13.5.11 A probable Iron Age site is located within the 1 km Study Areas, located 1.5 km to 
the west of the Project Site, as shown in Figure 13.1 and 13.2. This is Scheduled 
Monument GM308, which comprises an oval enclosure measuring c. 90 m x 60 m, 
defined by a wide earthen bank that stands up to 1 m high in places. Its date is 
unproven but its morphology suggests it belongs to the Iron Age, with either a 
defensive and/or settlement function. The monument, now standing within 
woodland, is well preserved and retains considerable archaeological potential. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 13: HISTORIC ENVIRONMENT 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
13-18 
 
d) 
Roman (AD 43 – AD 410) 
13.5.12 The Study Areas are removed from the main framework of Roman forts and roads 
in the region, which developed during the conquest of South Wales between 47 
and 77 AD (Ref. 13.21 and 22). Forts were established at Coelbren, Neath, 
Loughor and Carmarthen, connected by a road network that can, in part, still be 
traced in the modern landscape (Ref. 13.23). The remains of two Roman practice 
camps are known within the 5 km Study Area, 4.6 km south of the Project Site, on 
Mynydd Carn Goch (SM GM269).  
13.5.13 A re-analysis of the rural evidence may challenge the widely held belief that the 
indigenous population was largely untouched by the Romans (Ref. 13.Ref.13.23). 
However, identifiably Roman sites are entirely absent from the 1 km Study Area, 
although a continuity of native occupation must be assumed throughout this period 
and into the immediate post-Roman era. 
e) 
Medieval (AD 410 – AD 1540) 
13.5.14 The early medieval period in South Wales is broadly characterised by the 
emergence of distinct regional kingdoms, and of Christianity, with the possibility of 
some level of Viking depredation (Ref. 13.24). Archaeologically, the period is very 
poorly evidenced, and no settlement sites of this era are known within the Study 
Areas – although it is possible that some Anglo-Norman and medieval Welsh sites 
may have earlier origins. One possible monument belonging to this period is the 
base of a stone cross within Llangyfelach churchyard, 1.7 km south of the Project 
Site (SM GM299). Though not precisely dated, stylistically it would appear to 
belong to the early medieval period. 
13.5.15 Evidence from the later medieval period in South Wales (i.e. after the Norman 
Conquest of the region) is far more abundant. No certain medieval sites are known 
within the Project Site or 1 km Study Area, but Pen y Fedw (PRN 01525w) is 
suggested to have its origins in the 14th century (Ref.13.24), although the evidence 
supporting this assertion is unclear. Assuming some degree of continuity, some of 
the other post-medieval farms in the district could reasonably be assumed to have 
earlier origins.  
13.5.16 Within the 5 km Study Area, the scheduled earthwork known as Cae Castell is 
probably medieval in date and, on the basis of its place-name, quite possibly 
defensive in character (SM GM439). Meanwhile, the tower of the St David’s church, 
Llangyfelach, is the likely standing remains of a former 14th-century church that 
stood within the curtilage of the present churchyard (LB 26236). 
13.5.17 The present-day agricultural field pattern was largely established by the beginning 
of the 18th century, as evidenced by the 2”:1 mile map of Glamorgan and 
Monmouthshire (1812-14; Ref.  13.25). Of particular interest on this map are the 
hedgerows identified in this assessment as AB03 and AB04, both of which are 
within the Project Site. The date at which the field pattern as a whole began to 
develop is not known, but it is possible that some parts may have medieval origins. 
 
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 13: HISTORIC ENVIRONMENT 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
13-19 
 
f) 
Post-medieval (AD 1540 – AD 1901) 
13.5.18 Within the 1 km Study Area, the earliest forms of Post-medieval remains appear to 
be predominately of domestic and agricultural purpose. One example (albeit 
immediately outside the 1 km Study Area) is Cynghordy Fawr (PRN 02750w), 
which is located in the north-east of the Study Area. This building is fairly typical of 
the architectural style of this period, comprising a 17th-century longhouse with a 
courtyard and further ranges including a stable block and granary. 
13.5.19 George Yates’ Map of Glamorgan, dated 1799 (Ref. 13.1924), shows ‘Abergelly 
Fach’ (AB02) as an isolated farm building, disconnected from a north/south aligned 
lane that cuts across the north-western corner of the Project Site. A map of 
Glamorganshire (1812-14, Ref. 13.25) depicts the same farm as comprising two 
north-east/south-west aligned rectangular buildings set within their own grounds, 
and connected to the existing north/south aligned lane via a short driveway. To the 
east of AB02 is the farmstead of ‘Abergelly-fawr’ (AB01), featuring at least two 
buildings and an associated connecting lane to the north. The remaining land is 
shown as an enclosed field system, which includes boundaries AB03 and AB04, 
located immediately north of Abergelly-fach.  
13.5.20 By the time of the surveying of the Llangyfelach Tithe Map of 1838 (Ref. 13.26), 
new field boundaries had been created and the fields made smaller and more 
irregular in shape. Boundaries AB03 and AB04 remained intact, forming the 
southern boundary of three irregular fields to the east of ‘Abergelly fach’ (AB01). 
The field systems depicted on the tithe map can also been seen on OS map of 
1883-1884 (Ref. 13.27). By this time ‘Abergelli-fach’ (AB02) had expanded, 
comprising a farmstead of at least six buildings. The most significant development 
is the establishment of a large plantation in the south-east of the Project Site 
boundary. The subsequent OS edition of 1897 (Ref. 13.29) names the plantation as 
‘Abergelli-fach Plantation’. A quarry (PRN 01349w) is depicted for the first time, and 
is labelled as a ‘gravel pit’ immediately south-west of AB02.  
13.5.21 In the early post-medieval period the population of the larger Swansea area began 
to decline as the administrative centre for the region moved to Cardiff (Ref. 13.29). 
This began its reversal in the early 18th century as the transport of materials for 
use in industry such as coal and metals along the River Tawe became essential. 
The River Tawe was a vital trade route during the 18th and 19th centuries at the 
time when Swansea became renowned as a copper smelting centre with such 
works as the Hafod Copperworks (PRN 05956w) and the Landore Copperworks 
(PRN 01586w). The Swansea’s copper industry rose to prominence in the 18th 
century. Llangyfelach Copperworks (NPRN 34094), established in 1717, was the 
first of the major Swansea copperworks; its site is located beyond the 5 km Study 
Area, at the junction of Cwm Level Road and Neath Road to the north of Landore 
viaduct (Ref. 13.30).  
13.5.22 No copper-working sites are known within the 1 km Study Area, but several sites 
attest to the supporting coal-mining industries which grew up in Swansea’s 
hinterland. Collieries established during this period within the Study Area include 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 13: HISTORIC ENVIRONMENT 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
13-20 
 
Bryn Whilach Colliery (PRN 01340w) and an unnamed colliery at Mawr (PRN 
01345w).  
13.5.23 Industrial transport networks are also evidenced. In 1798, the Swansea Canal was 
opened, serving to increase the industrial capacity of the area, such that at one 
stage in the 19th century, three quarters of the world’s copper ore was being 
transported to Swansea for processing (Ref. 13.31). The century following the 
canal’s construction saw the city’s population grow from approximately 10,000 
people to 95,000 people. Transport routes were established over land not only to 
supply the copperworks with raw materials but also to link the mines and collieries 
with the works and ports. Within the 1 km Study Area these include a tramroad 
(PRN 05950.0w) linking Bryn-whilach and Pen-rhiwfelen coal pits to Clydach Road, 
a mineral railway (PRN 03017.0w) situated within the community of Llangyfelach, 
and now a dismantled railway (PRN 02916.0w) serving Felindre Pit on the east side 
of the Lliw Valley. 
g) 
Modern (1901-present) 
13.5.24 Due to the availability of cheaper copper and coal from overseas, the industrial 
prosperity of the South Wales region began to decline in the early 20th century (Ref. 
13.32). Throughout this period Swansea still remained a centre of industry within 
South Wales, with a population at the time of the outbreak of World War II of 
167,000 people (Ref. 13.33). The Velindre works (PRN 02905w; 0.8 km south of 
the Project Site) was built as part of a post-war development programme begun 
after the Steel Company of Wales was formed in 1947. In 1952 the company 
started work on the construction of a cold reduction and electrolytic tinning plant at 
the site near Llangyfelach. The Velindre works began production in October 1956. 
The main building, the Mill Bay, was of very significant size: 1440 ft long, 100 ft 
wide and 66 ft high. It was closed down in September 1989 and its buildings were 
subsequently demolished. 
13.5.25 One historic asset immediately to the west of the Project Site originates in this 
period: Abergelli Colliery (NPRN 80607). When first shown on the OS map of 1931 
(Ref. 13.34), it comprised a water tank, engine houses, a slant (slanted shaft), and 
a tramway or railway following a course from the slant to a slag heap at the north 
end of the colliery site. The colliery worked the Four Feet and Graigola (also known 
as the Brynwhilach) coal seams and was a registered colliery from 1926 to 1960 
The owner, up to nationalisation, was the Graigola Merthyr Co. Ltd and it was 
worked in association with Clydach Merthyr Colliery located at Craig Cefn Parc, 
approximately 2.5 km north-east of the Project Site (Ref. 13.35). 
13.5.26 Aerial photographs of the area taken in 1970 (Ref. 13.36) show the addition of an 
electrical substation to the south-west of Abergelli Farm. The next significant 
changes to the Project Site are shown on aerial photographs taken in 2008; these 
reflect the construction of the Felindre Gas Compressor Station. The photographs 
show that the works included the installation of a gas pipeline from the road to the 
north of Abergelli farm, traversing the fields to the east and south of the farm, to the 
Substation, which extends over much of the Abergelli fach Plantation. As a part of 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 13: HISTORIC ENVIRONMENT 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
13-21 
 
this development, a section of historic field boundary AB03 was removed for the 
pipeline easement. 
13.5.27 Aerial photographs of 2010 show this complex being extended southwards. By 
2015, much of the land to the east of the farm had been utilised for solar panels 
(Ref. 13.37). 
h) 
Historic landscape characterisation 
13.5.28 The Project Site area lies in Landmap Historic Landscape Aspect Area H27 (Gower 
Supraboscus Agricultural). This is characterised by an irregular fieldscape with 
hedgerows and hedgebanks, reflecting a history of gradual and piecemeal 
enclosure in the valleys and foothills throughout the medieval and post-medieval 
periods. There is some evidence for enclosure in the pre-Norman period, and the 
process continued into the second half of the 19th century. Some unenclosed land 
and woodland remains. Limited industrial activity (mainly mining) also took place 
here in the 19th century and has left residual traces in the landscape. The 
settlement pattern is 
predominantly of dispersed character, but ribbon 
developments occur in areas of former industrial activity. 
i) 
Previous Investigations 
13.5.29 A watching brief was undertaken by Cambrian Archaeological Projects (Ref. 13.38) 
during groundworks associated with the construction of a high pressure gas 
pipeline between Felindre and Brecon. The watching brief was carried out within 
part of the Project Site through the fields to the east of Abergelli Farm. A single pit 
was noted and revealed evidence of in situ burning, which was potentially the 
remains of a hearth or furnace. It measured 1.5 m in diameter and was 0.2 m in 
depth. No date was ascertained for this feature. The site of this feature was located 
to the south of Abergelli farm at NGR SN 65136 01433, approximately 100 m 
outside of the Project Site.   
13.5.30 Archaeological watching briefs undertaken by Cotswold Archaeology during the 
construction of the oil pipeline in the northern extent of the Project Site revealed 
two undated charcoal spreads. Elsewhere, two pits with charcoal and burnt stone 
were exposed, and were associated with a spread of burnt material containing two 
worked, undated, flints. An evaluation at Waun y Garnwen, forming part of the 
same scheme of works, recorded four probable former field boundaries (Ref. 
13.39).  
13.5.31 A geophysical survey in the area immediately to the east of the Project Site was 
undertaken in advance of the installation of a solar energy farm. The works 
identified probable soil-filled features in most of the survey areas, and concluded 
that although some of the anomalies were weak or diffuse, most have potential to 
reflect the remains of archaeological features (Ref. 13.40). 
13.5.32 On the south-east fringe of the 1 km Study Area, a watching brief was undertaken 
by Oxford Archaeology within the grounds of Morriston Hospital prior to the 
development of new parking facilities. A linear field boundary and ornamental 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 13: HISTORIC ENVIRONMENT 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
13-22 
 
features relating to the garden of the former Maes y Gwernen Hall were recorded 
(Ref. 13.40). 
13.6 
Embedded Mitigation 
13.6.1 As detailed in Chapter 3: Project and Site Description, a number of embedded 
mitigation measures have been identified through the iterative EIA process and 
have been incorporated into the design and construction planning of the Project.   
13.6.2 As these mitigation measures have been embedded into the design of the Project, 
are legal requirements or are standard practices that will be implemented, the 
assessment of likely significant effects assumes that they are in place. 
13.7 
Assessment of Effects 
13.7.1 This section presents the findings of the historic environment assessment for the 
construction, operation and decommissioning phases of the Project. 
a) 
Construction 
13.7.2 This section identifies any likely significant effects that are predicted to occur and 
Section 13.8 highlights the additional mitigation and monitoring measures that are 
proposed to reduce or eliminate the identified significant effects. 
13.7.3 All impacts discussed in relation to construction are those of a physical character. 
No impacts on setting are predicted. 
i. 
Power Generation Plant 
13.7.4 Construction of the Power Generation Plant will not have a physical impact on any 
known historic asset. No known historic assets exist within its footprint. 
ii. Gas Connection 
13.7.5 Construction of the Gas Connection will not have a significant physical impact on 
any known historic asset.  
13.7.6 The Gas Pipeline will cross the line of historic boundary AB03, necessitating the 
removal of a portion of this feature for the width of the pipe easement. However, 
only a small percentage of this feature is affected, and was substantially altered 
when the preceding oil pipeline was installed, with little of the original historic fabric 
remaining. 
13.7.7 The easement for the Gas Pipeline will also run parallel to historic boundary AB04, 
which coincides with the western limit of the Project Site boundary. However, a 
Negligible effect is anticipated, since this feature is 25 m from the Gas Pipeline 
centreline, and thus beyond the limits of the pipe easement.  
Table 13-6: Nature and Significance of the Impact of Construction (Gas Connection) on Historic Assets 
Historic Asset Sensitivity 
Magnitude of 
Harm (Impact) 
Significance of 
Effect 
Duration of 
Effect 
AB03 
Low 
Negligible 
Negligible 
Permanent 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 13: HISTORIC ENVIRONMENT 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
13-23 
 
iii. Electrical Connection 
13.7.8 Construction of the Electrical Connection will not have a physical impact on any 
known historic asset. No known historic assets exist within its footprint. 
iv. Unknown Archaeology 
13.7.9 As described above, a number of archaeological interventions have been carried 
out within the 1 km Study Area, and one within the Project Site. The findings of 
these suggest that there is some potential for the discovery of buried 
archaeological remains. However, given the sporadic and isolated nature of these 
recorded features, and their likely character, there is a low probability of 
encountering buried archaeological remains of high value during the construction 
works. 
b) 
Operation  
13.7.10 Impacts upon below-ground archaeological remains will only arise if significant 
ground disturbance is anticipated during the operational phase of the Project. As no 
such activity is envisaged, there will be no further impact upon below ground 
archaeological remains once the Project is operational.  Maintenance activities are 
unlikely to require significant ground disturbance. 
13.7.11 Within this PEIR, the assessment of effects upon the setting of historic assets is 
provisional. It is currently based on: a) the Project ZTV; b) the LVA as presented in 
Chapter 11 of this PEIR; c) viewpoint graphics generated for the PEIR; d) field visits 
to slected monuments. 
13.7.12 To complete and refine this assessment, the analysis will draw upon: a) additional 
viewpoint graphics generated from winter photography (i.e. presenting the scenario 
in which the Project will be most visible); b) photomontages generated from 
heritage-specific viewpoints (i.e. assets for which an effect is predicted); c) wireline 
graphics from other monuments, to confirm that their exclusion from the 
assessment (i.e. on the basis of there being no effect) is correct. 
i. 
Power Generation Plant 
13.7.13 Operation of the Power Generation Plant will not have a physical impact on any 
known historic asset. 
13.7.14 Of the various elements of the Project, only the Power Generation Plant introduces 
any alteration in respect of the settings of historic assets, as follows. 
Conservation Areas 
13.7.15 Of the two conservation areas within the 5 km Study Area, only one lies within the 
ZTV for the Project: Llansamlet Conservation Area (CA027). The ZTV suggests that 
the stack of the Power Generation Plant will be visible from some of the northerly 
parts of the conservation area. However, the landscape between the Project Site 
and the conservation area has been extensively developed, including the Swansea 
Enterprise Park and the M4 motorway. Thus, despite bringing about a minor 
change to north-eastward views from the conservation area, neither its setting, nor 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 13: HISTORIC ENVIRONMENT 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
13-24 
 
those of the listed buildings within it, will be adversely affected by the Power 
Generation Plant. 
Registered Historic Parks and Gardens. 
13.7.16 Of the three Registered Historic Parks and Gardens within the 5 km Study Area, 
only one lies within the ZTV for the Project: Penllergaer Park and Garden (GM054). 
The Project is theoretically visible from within a small area of this registered park. 
However, the park and its constituent elements are well screened by woodland on 
its northern and eastern margins. Moreover, the park and Project Site are 
separated by the M4 motorway and surrounding urban and industrial development. 
As such, the park’s setting will not be adversely affected by the Power Generation 
Plant. 
Scheduled Monuments and listed buildings.  
13.7.17 The ZTV for the Project indicates that it will introduce change to the settings of a 
number of Scheduled Monuments and listed buildings. As described below, 
however, visual change does not necessarily equate to an adverse impact – 
whether because of the limited extent of visibility of the Project, the attributes of 
setting, the existing quality of setting, or a combination of these factors. Several 
assets are discussed below for which no impact will occur, this being done in order 
to demonstrate the reasoning behind the outcome of the assessment.  
13.7.18 Within the settlement of Penllergaer there are four listed buildings from which the 
Project Site will be visible. These relate to Bryn-rhos Farm and are located within a 
single cluster 3.6 km south-west of the Project Site, and are all Grade II-listed 
(LB26496-99). This group of buildings was listed as a little-altered 19th-century 
estate farm group. As such, the primary focus of their setting is their functional 
inter-relationship with each other and adjoining buildings. The setting of this asset 
group will be unaffected by the Power Generation Plant.  
13.7.19 To the north of Penllegaer is the Grade II-listed Penderi Fawr Farmhouse and 
attached cowhouse (LB26257; 2.4 km south-west of the Project Site). This building 
was listed due to it being a good example of a surviving 17th-century farmhouse 
built on the unit system. The setting of the building has already been wholly 
compromised by the construction of the M4 motorway, McDonald’s restaurant and 
the Moto Services less than 100 m away. The Project will not cause any further 
adverse effects to its setting. 
13.7.20 To the south-west of the Project Site (1.2 km) are two connected Grade II Listed 
Buildings: LB19983 (Tredegar Fawr); and LB19984 (Lofted Pigsty at Tredegar 
Fawr). These buildings were listed as being of historical interest due to their 
connection with the locally-important Morris family. The significant factor in the 
setting of these assets lies with their historical associations and their connections to 
each other, which will not be diminished by the Project. Moreover, the outward 
views from these assets have already been substantially affected by the Felindre 
Goods Depot (01229.10w) and the Velindre Works (02905w), as well as the 
construction of the M4 motorway. On all of these grounds, therefore, the Power 
Generation Plant will not alter the setting of these assets. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 13: HISTORIC ENVIRONMENT 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
13-25 
 
13.7.21 To the north of the Project Site (2.9 km) is Scheduled Monument GM202 (Mynydd 
Pysgodlyn Round Barrow). The Project will be visible from this monument, but the 
views from and including this monument will not be significantly changed 
(Viewpoint 6). The Project will be an extremely minor element of the viewshed, in 
which a substantial quantity of modern development is already present. An 
important attribute of the setting of this type of upland prehistoric monument is its 
sense of isolation. And, while the Project will be visible, marginally adding to the 
massing of modern elements to the south, the extent of additional change is very 
small and the intervening distance means that this sense of remoteness is 
maintained. No historic sightlines or visual connections with other monuments will 
be affected. The significance of effect of the Power Generation Plant upon the 
monument’s setting is considered to be Minor adverse (derived from a Negligible 
impact upon a High-value receptor) (Table 13-7), and therefore not significant. 
Table 13-7: Nature and Significance of the Impact of Operation on Historic Assets 
Historic 
Asset 
Sensitivity 
Magnitude of 
Harm (Impact) 
Significance 
of Effect 
Duration of 
Effect 
GM202 
High 
(National) 
Negligible 
Minor Adverse 
Permanent 
13.7.22 There are a number of assets in the settlement of Llangyfelach, 1.8 km south of the 
Project Site. These include: 
 GM229 (Llangyfelach Cross Base);  
 LB 26235, Grade II* (The Church of St David and St Cyfelach); and 
 LB 26236, Grade II* (Tower of the Church of St David). 
13.7.23 The Scheduled Monument and the Grade II* Listed Buildings form a cluster within a 
walled churchyard located near the centre of Llangyfelach. The churchyard is 
situated on high ground with clear views northwards, which presently include the 
Substation and the Felindre Gas Compressor Station. The assets have strong 
functional associations and represent the continual use of land for religious activity 
since the Medieval period. The integrity of the tower (LB26236) and church 
(LB26235) have been retained, despite repairs and modifications in the modern 
period to LB26236. The assets are located within an extensive graveyard, partially 
enclosed by a stone wall and tall mature trees to the west and north (see LVA 
Viewpoint 11). The setting of this group is essentially inward-looking, with little 
reference to the modern urban environment that surrounds it. The Power 
Generation Plant, while visible, will be an extremely minor addition to existing 
views; the modern urban development is dominant, and thus its effect upon these 
assets’ setting is considered neutral. 
ii. Gas Connection 
13.7.24 Operation of the Gas Connection will not have an impact upon on any known 
historic asset. 
 
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 13: HISTORIC ENVIRONMENT 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
13-26 
 
iii. Electrical Connection 
13.7.25 Operation of the Electrical Connection will not have an impact upon on any known 
historic asset. 
iv. Unknown archaeology 
13.7.26 Operation and maintenance of the Project will not have any impact on unknown 
archaeology. 
c) 
Decommissioning 
13.7.27 The removal of the Project will not require the disturbance of previously undisturbed 
ground or the demolition of any standing historic asset. As a consequence, there 
will be no effect on archaeology or cultural heritage during the decommissioning 
phase. 
13.8 
Mitigation and Monitoring  
13.8.1 As a general rule, additional mitigation measures have been proposed where a 
significant effect is predicted to occur. Embedded mitigation measures, which have 
been incorporated within the design of the Project or are standard practice 
measures that have been committed to are summarised in Chapter 3: Project and 
Site Description. Mitigation is inherent within the final design proposals in order to 
prevent or reduce direct and indirect impacts and effects on heritage assets. 
13.8.2 This section describes the proposed additional mitigation measures for the 
archaeology and cultural heritage assessment, beyond that descriped in embedded 
mitigation, Chapter 3: Project and Site Description .  
13.8.3 This section also describes any required monitoring regimes, including monitoring 
of specific receptors/resources, or monitoring the effectiveness of a mitigation 
measure.  The requirements, scope, frequency, and duration of a given monitoring 
regime are set out, as far as possible, in this section. 
a) 
Mitigation 
13.8.4 There is a presumption in favour of preservation in situ of nationally important 
archaeological remains, whether scheduled or not. In some cases, unscheduled 
remains of local and regional importance will be considered worthy of preservation 
in situ. In these cases, the results of the assessment should influence the design of 
the development in order to protect a monument or remains. Proposals for 
enhancement may also be identified. 
13.8.5 Preservation ‘by record’ may also be considered as an option for mitigation. For 
buried archaeology this implies excavation, whilst standing features are recorded 
by a combination of drawn, photographic and written record. Preservation by record 
is normally considered a less satisfactory outcome for cultural heritage, since it 
presupposes loss of, or damage to, the feature in question.   
13.8.6 In respect of setting, Cadw guidelines for mitigating the impact of a development on 
the setting of a historic asset suggest that in the first instance impacts are best 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 13: HISTORIC ENVIRONMENT 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
13-27 
 
mitigated for either by relocation of the development or changes to its design or the 
introduction of screening. Where relocation of the development is not possible, 
good design alone may be capable of reducing the harm. 
i. 
Known historic assets 
13.8.7 The only identified effect on known historic assets is that upon the boundary of 
AB03. Given that this feature is subject to only a limited impact, is of low value and 
the section of boundary in question has already effectively been removed by 
previous development, no additional mitigation is proposed.  
ii. Unknown archaeology 
13.8.8 Previous investigations within the 1 km Study Area suggest that there is potential 
for archaeological features to be present. However, neither the results of this field 
work, nor the findings of the present assessment, point towards the existence of 
significant or high-value archaeological remains within the Project Site. 
13.8.9 In keeping with the other recent projects in the 1 km Study Area, an archaeological 
watching brief will be maintained on construction ground works which is included as 
embedded migiation as set out in Chapter 3: Project and Site Description. This 
will apply to all areas subject to significant disturbance, unless scoped out due to 
existing conditions (e.g. made ground). No additional mitigation will be required. 
13.8.10 In the event that the watching brief reveals archaeological remains, sufficient time 
and resources will be allowed to ensure that these are adequately excavated, 
recorded and removed, and for samples to be taken if appropriate. Provision will 
also be made for post-excavation analysis and, if appropriate, publication of the 
results. 
iii. Effects upon setting 
13.8.11 Due to the scale of the Project, and the fact that it is the Power Generation Plant 
stack which introduces the principal changes to views, no additional mitigation is 
possible. The effects therefore remain as described above. 
b) 
Monitoring 
13.8.12 The watching brief will be subject to monitoring by GGAT. 
13.9 
Residual Effects 
13.9.1 The following tables present a summary of the residual effects identified by the 
archaeology and cultural heritage assessment. 
13.9.2 With the mitigation measures implemented, it is not anticipated that there will be 
any significant residual adverse effects associated with the Power Generation 
Plant, Gas Connection or Electrical Connection relating to archaeology and cultural 
heritage. 
 
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 13: HISTORIC ENVIRONMENT 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
13-28 
 
Table 13-8: Historic Environment: summary of construction effects 
Receptor 
Description of 
Effect 
Classification 
of effect 
Additional 
Mitigation  
Classification 
of Residual 
Effect 
Significant / 
Not 
Significant 
Field 
Boundary 
AB03 
Permanent 
effect caused 
by the partial 
destruction of 
the feature 
Negligible 
None 
Negligible 
Not 
Significant 
 
Table 13-9: Historic Environment: summary of operational effects 
Receptor 
Description of 
Effect 
Classification 
of Effect 
Additional 
Mitigation 
Classification 
of Residual 
Effect 
Significant / 
Not 
Significant 
GM202 
Alteration of 
setting 
Negligible 
None 
Minor Adverse 
Not 
Significant 
a) 
Project ‘“in combination” Effects 
13.9.3 The predicted effects of the Power Generation Plant, Gas Connection and 
Electrical Connection upon known archaeology and cultural heritage are limited to 
those assets listed in Table 13-8 and Table 13-9. No other known assets will be 
affected.The combined effect  upon upon known archaeology and cultural heritage 
from the whole project is therefore Negligible and not significant. 
13.10 Cumulative Effects 
a) Construction and Decomissioning 
i. 
Description of baseline where cumulative impacts expected 
13.10.1 It is considered that there is no potential for cumulative impacts on archaeology and 
cultural heritage receptors arising from construction of the Project in combination 
with other schemes. This is for the following reasons: 
 The direct residual effect of the Project on known archaeological remains is 
negligible, and therefore cannot not contribute in any meaningful way to any 
wider significant, comparable, losses to the cultural heritage resource; and 
 No effects upon the setting of historic assets are predicted. 
ii. Mitigation 
13.10.2 No mitigation is required. 
b) Operation 
i. 
Description of baseline where cumulative effects expected 
13.10.3 It is considered that there is no potential for significant cumulative impacts on 
archaeology and cultural heritage receptors as a result of operation of the Project in 
combination with other schemes. This is for the following reasons: 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 13: HISTORIC ENVIRONMENT 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
13-29 
 
 No physical effects upon known historic assets are predicted; and 
 Effects upon the setting of historic assets are limited to a single Scheduled 
Monument, for which the Project’s effect was classed as minor adverse. This 
monument is not affected by the other identified schemes. 
ii. Mitigation 
13.10.4 No mitigation is required.  
13.11 Conclusion and Next Steps 
13.11.1 Although situated within a landscape that exhibits evidence for human activity since 
late prehistory, the Project Site contains comparatively few known historic assets. 
Little previous study has been undertaken within the Project Site by way of 
archaeological field work. However, the desk-based data, supplemented by 
information from watching briefs on other projects within the 1 km Study Area, 
combine to suggest that this is a true reflection of the situation. The potential for 
significant unknown archaeology existing within the Project Site is considered to be 
low, with the possibility of its discovery being adequately addressed through a 
watching brief.  
13.11.2 As discussed above, the assessment of the Project’s effects on the setting of 
historic assets is at an interim stage. For the DCO Application, this assessment will 
include updated winter photography, wireline graphics and an additional viewpoint 
to confirm these predicted effects and verify the impact assessment conclusions.  
13.11.3 At this PEIR stage, it is concluded that while widely visible within the 5 km Study 
Area adopted for this assessment, the Project will have only a very limited effect on 
the setting of historic assets. A single minor adverse effect is predicted, with no 
other assets affected by the presence of the Project. 
13.12 References 
Ref. 13.1 
Department for Energy and Climate Change. 2011. Overarching sub Policy 
Statement for Energy EN-1. London 
Ref. 13.2 
Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Areas Act. 1979 
Ref. 13.3 
Planning (Listed Buildings and Conservation Areas) Act.1990.  
Ref. 13.4 
The Hedgerow Regulations. 1990 
Ref. 13.5 
Welsh Government. 2016. Historic Environment (Wales) Act.   
Ref. 13.6 
Welsh Government. 2016. Planning Policy Wales (PPW). Chapter 6 The 
Historic Environment.  
Ref. 13.7 
Welsh Government. 2017. Technical Advise Note (TAN) 24: The Historic 
Environment.  
Ref. 13.8 
City and County of Swansea Unitary Development Plan (2008) 
Ref. 13.9 
The City and Council of Swansea Council. 2016. Deposit Local Development 
Plan.  
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 13: HISTORIC ENVIRONMENT 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
13-30 
 
Ref. 13.10 
Cadw. 2011. Conservation Principles for the Sustainable Management of the 
Historic Environment in Wales 
Ref. 13.11 
Cadw. 2017. Setting of Historic Assets in Wales 
Ref. 13.12 
Chartered Institute for Archaeologists. 2017. Standards and guidance for 
historic environment desk-based assessment. Reading.  
Ref. 13.13 
Highways Agency. 2007. Cultural Heritage Section (Volume 11, Section 3, 
Part 2), Design Manual for Road and Bridges. London. 
Ref. 13.14  
F. Lynch, S. Aldhouse-Green & J.L. Davies. Prehistoric Wales. Stroud: 
Sutton, 2000 
Ref. 13.15  
C. Malone. Neolithic Britain and Ireland, Tempus: Stroud, 2001  
Ref. 13.16 
M. Parker Pearson. Bronze Age Britain, London: English Heritage, 1993 
Ref. 13.17 
E. Evans and R. Lewis. The Prehistoric Funerary and Ritual Monument 
Survey of Glamorgan and Gwent: Overviews. GGAT Report 3002/068. 2003 
Ref. 13.18 
F. Lynch. Ring Cairns in Britain and Ireland; their design and purpose, Ulster 
Journal of Archaeology, 1979, 42, 1-19;  
Ref. 13.19 
M. Russell. Monuments of the British Neolithic, Stroud: Tempus, 2002 
Ref. 13.20 
C. J. Arnold & J. K. Davies. Roman and Early Medieval Wales, Stroud: 
Sutton, 2000 
Ref. 13.21 
M. G. Jarrett. The Roman Frontier in Wales, Cardiff: University of Wales 
Press, 1969 
Ref. 13.22 
A. F. Pearson. Roman roads and vici in Southeast Wales: Year 2 report, 
GGAT Report 2002/061, 2002 
Ref. 13.23 
E.P. Dillon. 2003. A Research Framework for the Archaeology of Wales 
Southwest Wales – Roman 
Ref. 13.24 
W. Rees. South Wales and the Border in the Fourteenth Century, Ordnance 
Survey, 1932 
Ref. 13.25 
2”:1 mile maps of Glamorgan & Monmouthshire 1812-14 
Ref. 13.26 
Llangyfelch Tithe Map 1838 
Ref. 13.27 
Ordnance Survey Map, Glamorganshire. 1:10,560. 1883 
Ref. 13.28 
Ordnance Survey Map, Glamorganshire. 1:10,560. 1897 
Ref. 13.29  
I. Soulsby.  The Towns of Medieval Wales. Chichester, Phillimore, 1983 
Ref. 13.30   
S. Hughes & P. Reynold. A Guide to the Industrial Archaeology of the 
Swansea Region. AIA RCAHMW, 1989 
Ref. 13.31 
C. James & A. Sherman. Urban Village, High Street, Swansea: 
archaeological watching brief, GGAT Report no. 2011/051. 2011 
Ref. 13.32  
S. Hughes. Copperopolis: Landscapes of the Early Industrial Period in 
Swansea. Aberystwyth, RCAHMW, 2000 
Ref. 13.33  
J. R. Alban. The Three Night’s Blitz: Select Contemporary Reports relating to 
Swansea’s Air Raids of February 1941. Swansea: Swansea City Council, 
1994 
Ref. 13.34 
Ordnance Survey Map, Glamorganshire. 1:10,560. 1931-51 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 13: HISTORIC ENVIRONMENT 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited  
AECOM 
13-31 
 
Ref. 13.35 
Forum User (Tony). 2008. Mines around Felindre, Swansea. (Online) 
Available 
from 
http://.welshcoalmines.co.uk/forum/read.php?2,20939. 
(Accessed 15 November 2017) 
Ref. 13.36 
Central Register of Air Photography for Wales. Aerial Photographs of the 
study area. Dates between 1945-2014 
Ref. 13.37 
Cotswold Archaeology. South Wales Gas Pipeline Project: Site 0.04, Land 
south of Abergelli Farm, Mawr, Swansea. CA Report No 13262, 2013 
Ref. 13.38 
Cotswolds Archaeology. Milford Haven to Aberdulais Natural Gas Pipeline: 
archaeological fieldwork preliminary report Cotswold Archaeology, 2007 
Ref. 13.39 
Archaeological Services Durham University. Cefn Betingau Solar Park, 
Mawr, Swansea: Geophysical Survey, 2013 
Ref. 13.40 
Oxford Archaeology. Morriston Hospital, Phases 1 and 2: Watching brief 
Report, 2009 
