 
 
 
The Abergelli Power Gas Fired Generating Station 
Order 
 
5.2 Consultation Report Appendices – Volume E 
Appendices 10.A – 11.C  
 
Planning Act 2008 
The Infrastructure Planning  
(Applications: Prescribed Forms and Procedure) Regulations 2009 
 
PINS Reference Number:  
 
EN010069 
Document Reference: 
 
 
5.2 
Regulation Number: 
 
 
5(2)(q) & s37(3)(c) Planning Act 2008 
Author: 
 
 
 
 
Peter Brett Associates LLP 
 
Revision 
 
Date  
 
Description  
 
0 
 
 
May 2018  
 
Submission Version  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Consultation Report Appendices – Volume E 
Appendix 10: Non-Statutory Consultation (Post Phase 2 Statutory Consultation) 
10.A 
Minutes of meeting with CCS (28th March 2018) 
Appendix 11: Phase 2 Consultation Feedback and Response 
11.A 
Phase 2 S47 consultation feedback and APL response 
11.B 
Phase 2 S42 responses verbatim 
 
I 
S42(a) responses 
 
II 
S42(b) responses 
 
III 
S42(d) responses 
11.C 
Phase 2 S42 consultation feedback and APL response 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix 10: Non-Statutory Consultation (Post 
Phase 2 Statutory Consultation) 
 
Appendix 10.A: Phase 2 Minutes of meeting with 
CCS (28th March 2018) 
 
 
Abergelli Power Ltd 
28 March 2018  
 
Swansea City & County Council, Civic Centre, Oystermouth Road, Swansea SA1 3SN  
 
13:00 – 15:00 
 
Attendees  
Kirstin Gardner (Stag Energy) 
Dermot Scanlon (PBA) 
Andrew Ferguson (CCS)  
 
Agenda 
 
1. General Project Update 
a. Programme 
b. PINS - document review 
2. Clarify/confirm cut-off date for cumulative long list  
a. EfW application – any additional info on proposals or timeframes?  
3. Gas & Electrical Connection Consenting Approach  
a. TCPA Red Line Boundary  
b. Screening Request Proforma 
c. Requirements/Conditions  
d. Generation Licence & PD Rights 
e. Application Programme & Fee 
4. DCO Requirements 
5. DCO Adequacy of Consultation & Welsh Language Documents 
6. PPA 
 
 
Meeting Note  
 
1. General Project Update 
• 
Confirmed intention to submit APL DCO Application at end May 2018.  
• 
APL also confirmed that the intention is to submit application for environmental permit 
around same time as DCO application.  
• 
Discussed draft APL DCO documents that have been submitted to PINS for review. 
• 
If helpful, the draft documents are also available for CCS to review. 
2. Cumulative Long List  
• 
Cut-off date for cumulative long list confirmed as 28 Feb 2018 
• 
ACTION: AF to confirm current status of EfW proposal in Swansea area 
3. Gas & Electrical Connection Consenting Approach 
• 
Discussed presentation of red line boundary for Gas and Electrical Connection 
Applications and confirmed that the related Development Consent Order boundaries 
should also be indicated on submitted plans.  
 
 
• 
APL agreed to seek EIA Screening Opinion for Gas and Electrical Connections, and submit 
detailed Screening Request (along with standard Screening Proforma) for Gas and 
Electrical Connections ahead of the submission of TCPA applications.  
• 
APL noted that TCPA applications are likely to be submitted following acceptance of the 
DCO Application.  
• 
APL advised that a generation licence application has been submitted for the Project, as 
such, the Electrical Connection may be consented via permitted development rights.  
• 
APL noted that mitigation proposed in the TCPA applications will align with mitigation 
proposed in the Environmental Statement submitted with the APL DCO Application. As 
such, DCO Requirements and TCPA Conditions should dovetail in order to secure 
mitigation.  
• 
ACTION: AF to advise on likely TCPA Application Fees.  
4. DCO Requirements 
• 
Subsequent meeting or teleconference proposed to discuss DCO Requirements prior to 
APL DCO Application submission. Suggested w/c 23rd April or w/c 8th May.  
• 
ACTION: APL to advise anticipated approximate cost of decommissioning. 
• 
ACTION: APL to send Millbrook Power s106 HoT to AF.  
5. Adequacy of Consultation and Welsh Language Documents 
• 
APL confirmed that prior to submission of the DCO CCS will be contacted to comment on 
Adequacy of Consultation.  
• 
ACTION: APL to confirm list of DCO documents to be provided in both English and Welsh 
Language.  
• 
ACTION: AF to advise approach undertaken with regard to Welsh Language for Local 
Development Plan documentation.  
6. PPA  
• 
APL confirmed the intention to agree a PPA for the DCO Examination period.   
  
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix 11: Phase 2 Consultation Feedback and 
Response 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix 11.A: Phase 2 S47 Consultation Feedback 
and APL Response 
 
Theme
No. of 
Comments
Summary of Comments
Response in APL ES and/or DCO Application
One comment expresses concern over the exhaust gases up to 3 miles
One comment is opposed to the development because of its CO2 producing energy 
source
One comment has concerns over air quality prevailing winds carrying emissions 
towards Morriston Hospital and local housing
One comment has concerns over the air quality issues that come with a gas fired 
power station
One comment is concerned with the effect of the emissions on the health and 
patients of the nearby hospital
One comment expresses concerns about potential air pollution on the local residents
One comment is concerned with the emissions and where they will fall
One comment has concerns over the pollution 
One comment would like further information on the monitoring of emissions at the 
site.
1
One comment expresses concerns over the purpose of the development given the 
UK is committed to reducing emissions by using renewable sources
APL notes this comment about reducing emissions by using 
renewable energy sources. Gas is acknowledged by the 
Government as having an important role to play in the Welsh and 
UK transition to a low carbon economy, whilst at the same time 
supporting the country’s energy security. Gas peaking plants, such 
as the Project, complement renewable sources, which by nature 
are intermittent and therefore unpredictable.  Modern gas fired 
power plants are among the most efficient forms of electricity 
power generation.
2
Two comments have concerns over the long term benefits not being worthwhile and 
insufficient short term benefits
23
Twenty-three comments would like to see the Project bring community benefits 
including supporting:
-skills development 
-supporting local business
-employment and training opportunities 
-education
- a low carbon economy
APL acknowledges these comments and a full air quality impact 
assessment has been undertaken and is presented in Chapter 6 of 
the ES (Document Reference 6.1) which demonstrates that the 
Project will not cause significant air quality effects on human health 
or designated ecological sites.
9
Community Benefits
APL acknowledges these comments about community benefits. As 
detailed in Chapter 14 of the ES (Document Reference 6.1), there 
are considered to be economic benefits arising as a result of the 
Project through increased employment opportunities. 
APL are committed to providing community benefits through the 
development of Science, Technology, Engineering and 
Mathematics (STEM) education, provision of skills and training 
opportunities and supporting a low carbon economy. APL will 
continue to engage with City and County of Swansea Council to 
discuss options for delivering these through the existing Beyond 
Bricks and Mortar Scheme.
Air Quality
Phase 2 S47 Consultation Feedback and APL Response
1
Theme
No. of 
Comments
Summary of Comments
Response in APL ES and/or DCO Application
One comment opposes the Project and stated that more information was needed
One comment suggests further information on the impact of the Project on the local 
community of Felindre 
One comment opposes the Project on the basis of not knowing enough about the 
Project
1
One comment notes that information about the Project is very clear and concise 
APL welcomes this comment about the transparency of the 
consultation and no further actions are considered necessary to 
resolve this comment. 
1
This rural community has endured more than its fair share of large construction 
projects for water, gas, wind and solar installations. They all intermittently turned our 
lanes into 'no-go areas' for other users, and those lanes remain our lifeline to 
essential goods and services. The LNG pipeline project proved to be the most 
damaging because of the protracted ancillary works subsequently deemed 
necessary to be based at Abergelli. Ancillary works have become the recurring 
theme and on-going strategy for this site despite the limited and limiting 
infrastructure. Constructing the planned new road to provide site access could 
simultaneously solve the infrastructure problem. As the road would be permanent 
who knows what might follow, in view of the attempted piece-meal industrialisation of 
our rural environment.
APL notes this comment and, as part of our engagement exercise, 
have drawn from lessons learned and experience in the 
construction of other projects in this locality. One of the 
advantages of the location of the project is that the vast majority of 
our proposed works are restricted to land which is not within the 
adopted highway boundary as well as utilising an existing access 
road.  
Our proposed approach during the construction phase seeks to 
minimise disruption on the local roads through the implementation 
of a Construction Traffic Management Plan in which, for example, 
construction traffic routes and the timing of delivering the small 
number of abnormal loads would be agreed with the relevant 
authorities in advance.  
The operational phase of the Project will not give rise to significant 
levels of traffic. 
One comment opposes the development due to too many industrial sites already in 
Felindre
One comment would like to know if the development will impact future planning 
development of housing/rail/parkway/retail
APL acknowledges these comments. A full environmental 
assessment has been undertaken and information was provided 
during the 2018 public consultation, namely in the 2018 PEIR 
which was free to view publically on the APL website, at five public 
exhibitions, and in four local library locations. Further details are 
available in the Consultation Report (Document Reference 5.1).
3
Consultation
APL notes this comment and clarifies that the likely significant 
cumulative effects associated with the Project are set out in 
Chapter 17 Cumulative Effects. The assessment of intra-effects of 
the Project on shared receptors has concluded that the effects are 
not significant. The assessment of inter-project cumulative effects 
concludes that effects are significant, however as these effects are 
temporary during construction, no further mitigation is required, 
and they do not add to the overall significance of the effects of the 
Project.
2
Cumulative impact
Phase 2 S47 Consultation Feedback and APL Response
2
Theme
No. of 
Comments
Summary of Comments
Response in APL ES and/or DCO Application
1
One comment notes that the height of the stack has been extended 
APL notes this comment. Following the 2014 PEIR, a decision was 
taken to reduce the number of stacks from up to five to one. As a 
result of this design change, the height of the stack was increased 
from 40 m to 45 m, primarily to enable the adequate dispersion of 
emissions to meet legislative air quality targets. Further details are 
in Chapter 3 Project and Site Description of the ES (Document 
Reference 6.1).
1
One comment would like to know more about the impact and aspect database and 
how the station plans to address the LCP Bref
APL acknowledges this comment. Regard is given to the 
LANDMAP Aspects Database in the landscape and visual impact 
assessment. Refer to Chapter 11 of the ES and associated 
appendices (Document Reference 6.1 and 6.2).
APL notes this comment and APL intends to contact NRW shortly 
to discuss the permit application.
The Environmental Permit Application submitted for Project will 
have to demonstrate Best Available Techniques (BAT).
1
One comment is glad to see plans amended to include only one stack
APL notes this comment. Following the 2014 PEIR, there have 
been a number of changes to the project, one of which includes 
reducing the number of stacks from up to five to one. Further 
details are in Chapter 3 Project and Site Description of the ES 
(Document Reference 6.1).
1
One comment relates to the viability, specifically in relation to the prohibitive 
chargeable price for electricity
APL acknowledges this comment.  APL commercial proposals are 
based on a Funding Statement (Document Reference 4.2) which 
supports the application.
1
One comment notes that the revised layout is preferable to the original design 
proposed in 2014
APL notes this comment and considers no other action necessary 
to resolve this comment.
1
One comment is very concerned about the environmental implications and asks APL 
to make significant efforts to mitigate this
APL notes this comment. A full environmental impact assessment 
has been undertaken and the likely significant effects on nine 
environmental topics have been assessed. Embedded mitigation 
for the relevant topics are set out in Chapter 3 Project and Site 
Description, and a mitigation register is presented as an appendix 
to the CEMP (Appendix 3.1, Document Reference 6.2).
Design 
Ecology
Phase 2 S47 Consultation Feedback and APL Response
3
Theme
No. of 
Comments
Summary of Comments
Response in APL ES and/or DCO Application
1
One comment has concerns over wildlife
1
One comment has concerns over the loss of countryside 
Environmental Impact 
Assessment 
1
One comment notes that they are awaiting the full environmental impact report as 
part of the application before commenting
APL acknowledges this comment regarding the full ES, which will 
be publicly available following the submission of the DCO 
application.
Noise 
1
One comment has concerns on health and noise
APL acknowledges this comment. The effects on public health of 
impacts to air quality, noise, groundwater and land contamination 
have been assessed and the findings conclude there will be no 
significant effects Refer to the relevant topic chapters of the ES 
(Document Reference 6.1). The general public will not be exposed 
to any increase in Electrical Magnetic Fields (EMFs) from the 
Electrical Connection and there will be no significant effects arising 
from EMFs (ref to ES Chapter 15 Other Significant Effects, 
Document Reference 6.1).
9
Nine comments are concerned about the visual impact of the Project on the local 
area
APL acknowledges this comment. A detailed assessment has 
been undertaken of the potential impacts of the Project on 
landscape value (ES Chapter 11, Document Reference 6.1). 
Significant adverse effects are limited to the LANDMAP Aspect 
areas at a Project Site level and five of the eighteen viewpoints, 
where the embedded mitigation would not be sufficient to reduce 
these significant adverse effects. Where views of the upper parts 
of the Power Generation Plant and stack are visible in the middle 
distance of views, they would be seen in the context of the existing 
network of pylons and transmission lines as well as the tall 
structures present at the Felindre Gas Compressor Station and 
Substation. Therefore, significant residual effects on the landscape 
and visual resource will be localised and not extensive. 
APL notes this comment. The potential effects on ecology are set 
out in Chapter 8 Ecology. A full ecological assessment has been 
undertaken and the findings are presented in Chapter 8 of the ES, 
which concludes that no residual significant effects due to the 
embedded mitigation inherent within the design, and additional 
mitigation, where required. 
The potential effects on agricultural land are considered in Chapter 
10 Geology, Ground Conditions and Hydrogeology. The Project is 
largely situated on poor quality agricultural land (improved 
grassland classified as Grade 4 agricultural land). As such, the 
significance of effects on the countryside are considered to be 
negligible, therefore not significant. 
The ES Chapters are in Document Reference 6.1.
Ecology
Landscape and Visual 
Impact
Phase 2 S47 Consultation Feedback and APL Response
4
Theme
No. of 
Comments
Summary of Comments
Response in APL ES and/or DCO Application
1
One comment is supportive of the Project and suggests that the visual impact of the 
Project will be less than that of wind turbines
APL notes this comment and considers no other action necessary 
to resolve this comment.
1
One comment notes the Project as a good idea in which the development blends in 
with the environment
APL welcomes this comment and considers no other action 
necessary to resolve this comment.
One comment expresses concern with noise pollution, especially since the emissions 
of the five original stacks have become one. 
One comment expresses concern with the impact of noise levels on property and 
would appreciate further information on the likely impact. 
One comment has concerns over noise pollution
33
APL received a range of other responses from s47 consultees which do not relate to 
any of the main EIA topic themes. These other themes include:
-Twelve comments generally oppose the Project
-Three comments generally support the Project
-Eleven comments are either neutral or undecided
-One comment supports the Project, which is preferable to unreliable wind power
-Three comments recommend the Swansea Bay Tidal Lagoon project instead 
-One comment expresses concern about the need for a gas power plant
-One comment notes future horizon scanning needs to be maintained as the 
development of energy storage will reshape future demand
-Three comments would like to know if the Project will reduce the cost of electricity 
for local and industrial users.
APL acknowledges that the Project has gained support and 
opposition from the local community. Chapters 7 and 9 of the 
Consultation Report (Document Reference 5.1) provide a summary 
of feedback from the local community from the Phase 1 and Phase 
2 consultation respectively.
The Swansea Bay Tidal Lagoon is entirely separate from the APL 
project. Both projects would be able to progress, and the 
advancement of one does not preclude the other. The Project, 
which is a peaking plant, will help to ‘balance out’ the grid at other 
times of peak electricity demand and help to support the grid at 
times when other technologies (e.g. renewable energy sources, 
such as wind and solar farms) cannot generate electricity due to 
their intermittent operation and reliance on weather conditions.
Gas is acknowledged by the Welsh Government as having an 
important role to play in the transition to a low carbon economy, 
whilst at the same time supporting the country’s energy security. 
Gas peaking plants, such as the Project, complement renewable 
sources, which by nature are intermittent and therefore 
unpredictable.  Modern gas fired power plants are among the most 
efficient forms of electricity power generation.
APL notes the comment about scanning the future horizon. 
APL is not an electricity supplier and there will be no direct sales to 
local and industrial consumers. 
1
One comment is supportive of the project and would like to know if the Project will 
reduce the cost of electricity for local consumers
APL welcomes this comment, however, APL is not an electricity 
supplier.
3
Noise 
APL notes this comment. The potential effects of noise emissions 
resulting from the Project are detailed in Chapter 7 Noise and 
Vibration (Document Reference 6.1) of the ES. The detailed 
assessments and modelling undertaken conclude that there are no 
significant effects during the construction and operational phases 
of the Project. 
Other
Phase 2 S47 Consultation Feedback and APL Response
5
Theme
No. of 
Comments
Summary of Comments
Response in APL ES and/or DCO Application
1
One comment is concerned the benefits will be small and transient compared to the 
long lasting and damaging long term effects
APL acknowledges this comment about the costs and benefits of 
the Project. A full environmental assessment has been undertaken 
and there are no long lasting significant environmental effects. 
Please refer to the Environmental Statement (Document Reference 
6.1). There is a considerable national need for this type of project, 
acknowledged at all levels of Government policy. Gas is 
acknowledged by the Government as having an important
role to play in our transition to a low carbon economy, whilst at the 
same time supporting the country’s energy security. In addition, 
gas peaking plants such as the Project would
provide back-up to power generation from renewable sources, 
particularly wind power, which supply an increasingly important 
share of the country’s electricity demand. Modern gas fired power 
plants are among the most efficient forms of electricity power 
generation. The Welsh Government acknowledges that "gas will be 
a key transitional fuel because greenhouse gas emissions from 
gas are significantly less than coal subject to the method of 
extraction" and "in the short term, gas, nuclear and bio-energy will 
provide the energy to compensate for the intermittency in supply 
from renewable resources" (Welsh Government. Energy Wales – 
A Low Carbon Transition, 2012).
1
One comment expresses concerns over the gas industry and the station being 
derelict within 10 years
APL acknowledges this comment. The DCO includes a 
decommissioning requirement that states that within 24 months of 
the power station ceasing to generate electricity a scheme for its 
demolition and removal must be submitted to the relevant planning 
authority.
Phase 2 S47 Consultation Feedback and APL Response
6
Theme
No. of 
Comments
Summary of Comments
Response in APL ES and/or DCO Application
1
One comment has concerns over what safeguards would be in place to 
prevent/minimise damage to properties or humans in the event of an explosion 
APL notes this comment and clarifies that major accidents and 
abnormal operations, including gas leaks, fires and explosions are 
considered in Chapter 15 Other Effects of the ES. The Project has 
been designed to comply with industry safety standards and to 
meet legislative requirements for safe operation. Operational 
maintenance is also described in detail in Chapter 3 Project Site 
and Description (Document Reference 6.1).
1
One comment has concerns over security should an act of terrorism occur
APL notes this comment.  NPS EN-1 states the DECC will identify 
at the pre-application stage, if a Project has any national security 
implications and advise whether consultation with the Centre for 
the Protection of National Infrastructure (CPNI) is required. APL 
has not been notified that the site is of interest to CPNI and is not 
therefore considered to be a target for terrorists.
Site Selection
2
Two comments oppose the site selection for the following reasons:
-location is not suitable for a power station with one of the main hospitals nearby
-Velindre Business park would be a better location for the power station given its 
good connections to the M4 and substation nearby
APL acknowledges these comments. The reasons for the choice of 
project site are clearly set out in Chapter 5 of the PEIR and the 
Chapter 5 of the ES. The site has been chosen following a lengthy 
and extensive search by the project team and the suitability of the 
site is a combination of:
-close proximity to a suitable electrical connection point;
-close proximity to a suitable gas connection point;
-Project site does not include any nationally important 
environmental designations;
-Land available is of an adequate size to accommodate the Power 
Generation Plant, Gas Connection and Electrical Connection;
-Project Site is largely situated on poor quality agricultural land 
(improved grassland classified as Grade 4 agricultural land);
-close proximity to similar industrial developments including the 
Felindre Gas Compressor Station and Substation;
-surrounding network is within an area of net electricity import; and
-close proximity to a well-developed road network to the Project 
Site.
The ES Chapters are in Document Reference 6.1.
Safety
Phase 2 S47 Consultation Feedback and APL Response
7
Theme
No. of 
Comments
Summary of Comments
Response in APL ES and/or DCO Application
1
One comment expresses concern over the short term construction jobs and no 
guarantee the 5 long term jobs will go to locals
APL acknowledges this comment about long terms jobs for locals. 
The socio-economic assessment in ES Chapter 14 estimates that 
the operational phase of the Project will create 10 full time 
equivalent (FTE) direct jobs. Each of the 10 FTE jobs will be highly 
skilled positions that offer permanent employment opportunities for 
25 years. The baseline assessment shows construction and 
manufacturing employment accounts for almost a fifth of all jobs in 
the study area. The study area’s concentration of skilled manual 
workers is also higher than the national average. The Project will 
therefore present an opportunity to develop the skills of the local 
workforce and increase the value of the construction industry.
4
Four comments have concerns over the devaluation of property prices and the area 
becoming a less desirable place to live
In response to concerns about house prices, APL advises that loss 
of property value is not a material consideration in the planning 
process and is therefore not something that is covered in an EIA. 
Evidence would need to be provided to demonstrate that the 
proposed development would have an adverse impact on the 
property value. APL provided additional explanation to explain the 
circumstances in which parties my by entitled to claim 
compensation due to impacts from the proposed development, 
whilst noting that parties should, in any event, seek independent 
legal advice if they believe they are affected by the Project. 
1
The continuity and affordability of such a supply will always be vulnerable to external 
factors such as currency fluctuations or international competition and disputes. It can 
also weigh heavily on balance of payment scales.
APL acknowledges this comment which is a reflection of the state 
of the energy supply industry in the UK generally.
One comment supports the project and the high skilled jobs created
One comment is supportive of the project for helping their business 
APL welcomes this comment. Impacts on local businesses are 
examined in Chapter 14 Socio-economics of the ES (Document 
Reference 6.1).
2
Socio-economics
Phase 2 S47 Consultation Feedback and APL Response
8
Theme
No. of 
Comments
Summary of Comments
Response in APL ES and/or DCO Application
12
Twelve comments express concern that additional traffic generated by the Project 
will have an adverse impact on the local highway network, including nearby 
settlements and Morriston Hospital
APL acknowledges these comments and a full traffic and transport 
assessment has been undertaken and is presented in Chapter 12 
of the ES as well as the Traffic Survey (Appendix 12.1 of the ES). 
These assessments describe impacts on the local road network 
both from the Project in isolation and cumulatively with other 
developments and both during operation and construction of the 
Project. Although some significant effects have been predicted 
during the construction phase of the Project, these effects would 
be temporary. No significant effects have been identified during the 
operation of any components of the Project have been identified.
The ES Chapters and Appendices are in Document Reference 6.1 
and 6.2, respectively.
1
Morriston Hospital has a reported workforce of 3500 at present with approximately 
5500 employed at the nearby DVLA complex. As a substantial number of these 
employees travel via the Junction 46 roundabout the projected  delays  could affect 
very many commuters. In the 2018 Preliminary Assessment you briefly mention that 
'Morriston Hospital has A&E facilitie's. This hardly reflects its status as the Major 
Trauma Centre for the whole of Mid, West and South-West Wales.  Significantly  it is 
the Centre to which emergency vehicles need unhindered passage through the very 
same approach roads, roundabout and junctions where you plan to bring an influx of 
construction traffic. Ambulances are not identified in your Traffic Suveys either 
although they counted HGVs
APL notes this comment. The traffic and transport assessment in 
Chapter 12 of the ES (Document Reference 6.1) has assessed the 
effects on Junction 46 of the M4 and the proposed route to site 
along the B4489 and concludes that effects on the junction during 
construction will be temporary, and not significant. 
APL can confirm that ambulances are considered in the traffic 
survey and are classified as light goods vehicles 
1
One comment agrees with the Project's proposed transport route and is pleased that 
the Rhydypandy Rd route is not being used
APL welcomes this comment about the transport route, and no 
further actions are considered necessary to resolve this comment. 
1
One respondent would like to see the Highways Report the when complete
APL acknowledges this comment. A traffic and transport 
assessment is provided in Chapter 12 of the ES (Document 
Reference 6.2).
1
One comment is concerned about road safety in the community
APL acknowledges this comment about road safety. Accidents and 
safety are being considered in the ES, following receipt of personal 
injury collision (PIC) data from the City and County of Swansea 
Council.  
Transport
Phase 2 S47 Consultation Feedback and APL Response
9
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix 11.B: Phase 2 S42 responses verbatim 
11.B I  S42(a) responses 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Protecting the public and the environment in mining areas 
 
1 
200 Lichfield Lane 
Berry Hill 
Mansfield 
Nottinghamshire 
NG18 4RG 
 
Tel:  
01623 637 119 (Planning Enquiries) 
 
 
Email:  planningconsultation@coal.gov.uk 
 
Web:   www.gov.uk/coalauthority 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the Attention of: Abergelli Power 
 
[By Email: info@abergellipower.co.uk]  
 
16 February 2018 
  
Dear Sir or Madam 
 
PRE-APPLICATION: ABERGELLI POWER LTD 
 
Proposed gas fired power plant; Land Adjacent Felindre Gas Compressor Station At  
Abergelli Fach Farm, Felindre, Swansea, SA5 7NN 
 
Thank you for your consultation letter of 5 January 2018 seeking the views of The Coal 
Authority on the above pre application enquiry. 
 
The Coal Authority is a non-departmental public body sponsored by the Department for 
Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy. As a statutory consultee, The Coal Authority has a 
duty to respond to planning applications and development plans in order to protect the 
public and the environment in mining areas. 
 
Parts of the site fall within the defined Development High Risk Area. 
 
The Coal Authority records indicate that parts of the site have been subject to historic 
recorded underground coal mining at shallow depth and that other parts of the site are 
likely to have been subject to historic unrecorded underground coal mining at shallow 
depth associated with a thick coal outcrop. Our records also indicate that a recorded mine 
entry (adit) is present within the planning boundary and that within the planning boundary 
there have been 4 reported hazards. In addition, 2 reported subsidence claims have been 
made within the planning boundary.  
 
In terms of Chapter 10 of the ES prepared by AECOM (Geology, Ground Conditions and 
Hydrogeology), my personal opinion is that it would be sufficient to accompany any 
subsequent future planning application to meet the requirements of National policy. 
 
In terms of the chapter’s content, the chapter confirms that the physical investigation of 
coal mining legacy features will be required. Consequently, the likely Coal Authority 
recommendation to the LPA would be no objections, subject to the imposition of an 
 
 
 
Protecting the public and the environment in mining areas 
 
2 
appropriate planning condition to secure site investigations and any necessary remedial 
measures.  
 
Please do not hesitate to contact me if you would like to discuss this matter further. 
 
 Yours faithfully 
Chris MacArthur 
 
Chris MacArthur B.Sc.(Hons), DipTP, MRTPI 
Planning Liaison Manager 
 
Disclaimer 
 
The above consultation response is provided by The Coal Authority as a Statutory 
Consultee and is based upon the latest available coal mining data on the date of the 
response, and electronic consultation records held by The Coal Authority since 1 April 
2013.  The comments made are also based upon only the information provided to The 
Coal Authority by the Local Planning Authority and/or has been published on the Council's 
website for consultation purposes in relation to this specific planning application.  The 
views and conclusions contained in this response may be subject to review and 
amendment by The Coal Authority if additional or new data/information (such as a revised 
Coal Mining Risk Assessment) is provided by the Local Planning Authority or the Applicant 
for consultation purposes. 
 
In formulating this response The Coal Authority has taken full account of the professional 
conclusions reached by the competent person who has prepared the Coal Mining Risk 
Assessment or other similar report.  In the event that any future claim for liability arises in 
relation to this development The Coal Authority will take full account of the views, 
conclusions and mitigation previously expressed by the professional advisers for this 
development in relation to ground conditions and the acceptability of development. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Protecting the public and the environment in mining areas 
 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
From:
Jiggins Craig
To:
Abergelli Power
Subject:
Abergelli Power Station
Date:
09 February 2018 21:28:30
Attachments:
CAP393Ed5-ANO2016ExtractsLightingArticles.pdf
CAP168Ed10Feb2014-Extract-LightingofObstacles.pdf
Dear Sir / Madam
 
I have been passed the planning proposal for the construction of a Abergelli power plant at Abergelli
Farm, Felindre. It is unclear as to what the heights of the buildings will be so difficult to see if any of
the buildings will become an en-route obstacle. So with that in mind I have copied certain documents
for information, especially as the height and location of the may impact on both Swansea Airport. As
detailed below, Swansea Airport are to be consulted should there be an impact to the safeguarding
area, in which case lighting of the landmark building may be required;
 
In the UK, the need for aviation obstruction lighting on 'tall' structures depends in the first instance
upon any particular structure's location in relationship to an aerodrome.  If the structure constitutes an
'aerodrome obstruction' it is the aerodrome operator that will review the lighting requirement (part of
the safeguarding process).  For civil aerodromes, they will, in general terms, follow the requirements
of CAP 168 - Licensing of Aerodromes.  This document can be downloaded from the Civil Aviation
CAA website at http://publicapps.caa.co.uk/docs/33/CAP168LicensingofAerodromes.pdf - Chapter 4
refers to obstacles and obstacle lighting (I have included an extract from CAP168).
Away from aerodromes Article 222 of the UK Air Navigation Order applies (CAP 393 published on our
website at:  http://publicapps.caa.co.uk/docs/33/CAP393Ed5Am1_OCT2016.pdf – to get there
quickly, open the document and search for ‘Lights and Lighting’.  Article 222 requires that for en-route
obstructions (i.e. away from aerodromes) lighting only becomes legally mandated for structures of a
height of 150m or more above ground level. 
Typically, structures less than 150m above ground level and away from the immediate vicinity of an
aerodrome are not routinely lit for civil aviation purposes.  However, structures of lesser high might
need aviation obstruction lighting if, by virtue of their location and nature, they are considered a
significant navigational hazard.
Note that if the structure is to be 150m or higher, the lighting specification set out in Article 222
becomes a statutory requirement.  In this latter case, any proposal to seek a lighting specification at
odds with Article 222 should involve the CAA at the earliest convenience (0207 453 6559 /
craig.jiggins@caa.co.uk).
 
I recommend that this proposal should be brought to the attention of the following organisations:
I would recommend that Swansea Airport are advised of this Power Plant, as the distance
to/from the airport is less than 13km and the safeguarding department at the Airport need to
analyse for any impact. (Swansea Airport Ltd - Swansea Airport, Fairwood Common,
Swansea,SA2 7JU., Phone: 01792-204063 (Admin and Airport Ops)
 
Due to the unique nature of operations in respect of altitudes and potentially unusual landing
sites, it would be sensible for you to establish the related viewpoints of local emergency
services Air Support Units through the National Police Air Service (NPAS) organisation via
email npas.obstructions@npas.pnn.police.uk;
 
The proposal should be brought to the attention of the Safeguarding Department within the
MoD's Defence Infrastructure Organisation, email: DIO-safeguarding-statutory@mod.uk, to
ensure that military aircraft safety is taken into consideration;
Due to the unique nature of operations in respect of altitudes and potentially unusual landing
sites, it would be sensible for you to establish the related viewpoints of local emergency
services Air Support Units through the Wales Air Ambulance Charity -
http://www.walesairambulance.com/
Regards
Craig
 
Craig Jiggins
ATM Technical Specialist
Safety and Airspace Regulation Group (SARG) - Airspace Regulation
Civil Aviation Authority
020-7453 6559
www.caa.co.uk
Follow us on Twitter: @UK_CAA
 
Please consider the environment. Think before printing this email
 
**********************************************************************
 
Before Printing consider the environment.
This e-mail and any attachment(s) are for authorised use by the intended recipient(s) only. It may contain proprietary
material, confidential information and/or be subject to legal privilege. If you are not an intended recipient then please
promptly delete this e-mail, as well as any associated attachment(s) and inform the sender. It should not be copied,
disclosed to, retained or used by, any other party. Thank you.
 
We cannot accept any liability for any loss or damage sustained as a result of software viruses. You must carry out such
virus checking as is necessary before opening any attachment to this message.
 
Please note that all e-mail messages sent to the Civil Aviation Authority are subject to monitoring / interception for lawful
business.
 
**********************************************************************
From:
Abergelli Power
To:
Rhona Mitchell; Jonathan Sebbage
Cc:
Dermot Scanlon; Kirstin Gardner; Chris McKerrow
Subject:
FW: Proposed gas fired power plant at land adjacent to the Felindre
Date:
02 February 2018 09:21:10
Hi e-mail received today into info@abergellipower account.
 
I will note on our log.
 
Thanks
Collette
 
Collette King
Stag Energy
 
t:  +44 (0)131 550 3380
f:  +44 (0)131 550 3399
www.stagenergy.com
 
49 York Place
Edinburgh
EH1 3JD
 
The information contained in or attached to this email is intended only for the use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed.
If you are not the intended recipient, or a person responsible for delivering it to the intended recipient, you are not authorised to and
must not disclose, copy, distribute, or retain this message or any part of it. It may contain information which is confidential and/or
covered by legal professional or other privilege (or other rules or laws with similar effect in jurisdictions outside Scotland). The views
expressed in this email are not necessarily the views of Stag Energy Development Company Limited (the “company”), and the
company, its directors, officers or employees make no representation or accept any liability for its accuracy or completeness unless
expressly stated to the contrary.  We do not accept any liability or responsibility for: (1) changes made to this e-mail or any
attachment after it was sent, or (2) viruses transmitted through this e-mail or any attachment.  Stag Energy Development Co. Ltd. 
Registered Office: 49 York Place, Edinburgh, EH1 3JD Registered in Scotland No SC240966
 
From: Pyrah, Danielle [mailto:Danielle.Pyrah@thecrownestate.co.uk] 
Sent: 02 February 2018 09:05 AM
To: Abergelli Power <info@abergellipower.co.uk>
Subject: Proposed gas fired power plant at land adjacent to the Felindre
 
Dear Dermot,
 
Thank you for your letter dated 30.01.2018 relating to the above subject works.
 
We do not believe The Crown Estate Is affected, please could you take us off of your consultation
list.
However, if you disagree and think that we are, please do get in touch.
 
Kind regards,
Danielle
Danielle Pyrah
Team Co-ordinator
 
1 St James's Market, London, SW1Y 4AH
Tel: +44 (0) 20 7851 5266
www.thecrownestate.co.uk 
 
Please think - do you need to print this email?
LEGAL DISCLAIMER - IMPORTANT NOTICE
The information in this message, including any attachments, is intended solely for the use of the person to
whom it is addressed. It may be confidential and subject to legal professional privilege and it should not be
disclosed to or used by anyone else. If you receive this message in error please let the sender know straight
away.
We cannot accept liability resulting from email transmission.
The Crown Estate's head office is at 1 St James's Market London SW1Y 4AH
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
This message has been scanned for viruses by Websense
_
  
 
Developer Services 
PO Box 3146 
Cardiff 
CF30 0EH 
 
Tel:   +44 (0)800 917 2652 
Fax:   +44 (0)2920 740472 
E.mail: developer.services@dwrcymru.com 
Gwasanaethau Datblygu 
Blwch Post 3146 
Caerdydd 
CF30 0EH 
 
Ffôn:  +44 (0)800 917 2652 
Ffacs:  +44 (0)2920 740472 
E.bost: developer.services@dwrcymru.com 
 
     
 
 
 
Welsh Water is owned by Glas Cymru – a ‘not-for-profit’ company. 
Mae Dŵr Cymru yn eiddo i Glas Cymru – cwmni ‘nid-er-elw’. 
 
We welcome correspondence in 
Welsh and English 
 
Dŵr Cymru Cyf, a limited company registered in 
Wales no 2366777. Registered office: Pentwyn Road, 
Nelson, Treharris, Mid Glamorgan CF46 6LY 
 
Rydym yn croesawu gohebiaeth yn y 
Gymraeg neu yn Saesneg 
 
Dŵr Cymru Cyf, cwmni cyfyngedig wedi’i gofrestru yng 
Nghymru rhif 2366777. Swyddfa gofrestredig: Heol Pentwyn 
Nelson, Treharris, Morgannwg Ganol CF46 6LY. 
 
Peter Brett Associates LLP 
3rd Floor 
Randolph House 
4 Charlotte Lane 
Edinburgh 
EH2 4QZ 
 
Date: 30/01/2018 
 
Our Ref: PLA0032089 
Dear Sir 
 
Grid Ref: SN6526801343 265268 201343 
Site: Abergelli Power Station, Land adj to Felindre Gas Compressor Station, Abergelli Farm, Felindre 
Development: Notification under Regs11 of the Infrastructure Planning (Environmental Impact 
Assessment) 
 
We refer to your consultation documents received in accordance with Section 42 of the Planning Act 
2008 process, which precedes your application for a Development Consent Order for a power station at 
Abergelli, Swansea.  
 
Welsh Water have previously commented on the project as part of your DCO consultation process in 
2014 (Ref: OG/NSIP/Abergelli), as well as providing comments to the Planning Inspectorate in response to 
your Scoping Opinion consultation in July 2014, and will continue to actively engage with you in respect 
of the development and any possible impact upon our assets. We acknowledge that the details of the 
proposal are in a preliminary stage and accordingly we are keen to work with you to develop the proposal 
where there are possible impacts upon Welsh Water assets. We therefore trust that our comments and 
discussions on matters relating to the project following the close of this formal consultation stage will be 
taken into account in your submission of the Development Consent Order. 
 
In respect of our previous DCO consultation process in 2014 (Ref: OG/NSIP/Abergelli), we would advise 
that the application site lies in close proximity to the Lower Lliw Reservoir which supplies Felindre Water 
Treatment Works. As previously highlighted, it should be noted that the Lower Lliw is the source to the 
largest Water Treatment Works in Wales, permanently supplying in the region of 700,000 customers. The 
proposed development has the potential to impact upon the water quality within the reservoir, which is 
approximately 1km from the site, and accordingly it was previously advised that an air quality assessment 
would be appropriate to consider possible effects to the reservoir from deposition and affected rainfall. 
As part of your consultation documents, namely the Preliminary Environmental Information Report 
(PEIR), we note that detailed modelling has been undertaken to assess the impact of NOx Concentrations 
and acid/nitrogen deposition on ecological receptors and concludes the effects on air quality are 
considered ‘Negligible’. In addition, having regard to water quality and resources, we note that the 
reservoir and Afon Lliw have been excluded from further assessment as both are upgradient and 
therefore not in direct hydraulic continuity. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
 
Welsh Water is owned by Glas Cymru – a ‘not-for-profit’ company. 
Mae Dŵr Cymru yn eiddo i Glas Cymru – cwmni ‘nid-er-elw’. 
 
We welcome correspondence in 
Welsh and English 
 
Dŵr Cymru Cyf, a limited company registered in 
Wales no 2366777. Registered office: Pentwyn Road, 
Nelson, Treharris, Mid Glamorgan CF46 6LY 
 
Rydym yn croesawu gohebiaeth yn y 
Gymraeg neu yn Saesneg 
 
Dŵr Cymru Cyf, cwmni cyfyngedig wedi’i gofrestru yng 
Nghymru rhif 2366777. Swyddfa gofrestredig: Heol Pentwyn 
Nelson, Treharris, Morgannwg Ganol CF46 6LY. 
 
Whilst we acknowledge further assessments have been carried out of water and air quality, we remind 
that the developer consider the impact upon any DCWW assets and apparatus and our ability to fulfil 
statutory obligations. Our previous DCO consultation response in 2014 (Ref: OG/NSIP/Abergelli) 
confirmed that the application site is crossed by a 36” and 66” strategic watermain and were followed by 
proactive discussions. As part of your latest submission we note that the development has evolved and 
now intends to “consolidate the Generating Equipment Site to the north of the Water Main” albeit it 
appears the consultation documents does not include any detailed layouts at this stage. As such, please 
note, we respectfully reserve the right to comment further on any matters and issues arising from 
ongoing and future consultation. 
 
Notwithstanding this, we trust the above information is helpful at this stage and we look forward to 
continuing our engagement on the project prior and during the submission of an application to the 
Planning Inspectorate. Our response is based on the information provided by your application, should the 
proposal alter during the course of the application process we kindly request that we are re-consulted 
and reserve the right to make new representation. 
 
If you have any queries please contact the undersigned on 0800 917 2652 or via email at 
developer.services@dwrcymru.com 
 
Please quote our reference number in all communications and correspondence. 
 
Yours faithfully,  
 
Sion Jones 
Development Control Officer 
Developer Services 
From:
Correspondence
To:
Abergellipower
Subject:
EHRC-CU10487 Scanlon 20180110 Your letter dated 02 January 2018
Date:
10 January 2018 11:06:31
Attachments:
image001.png
image002.png
image003.png
image004.png
EHRC-CU10487 Scanlon 20180110 ScanOfLetter.pdf
Dear Dermot
Subject: ‘RE: Abergelli Power Station – land adjacent to the
Felindre Gas Compressor Station at Abergelli Farm, Felindra,
Swansea SA5 7NN’
Thank you for your letter dated 02 January 2018 for which I am writing to acknowledge
receipt.
The Commission receives many notices and requests to comment on planning issues. We
do not have the resources to respond to all, and it is not our practice to respond to
consultations on major infrastructure projects. Therefore, we would request you do not
send us further information on this project, unless there is a clear and specific equality and
human rights concern you wish to raise (for example, impact on minority communities
such as BME groups, or on accessibility for disabled people) where we may be able to add
value.
Yours sincerely
EHRC Corporate Correspondence Team
Equality and Human Rights Commission
Email: correspondence@equalityhumanrights.com
Corporate Correspondence Unit | Arndale Centre, Arndale House, Manchester, M4 3AQ
Our vision
We live in a country with a long history of upholding people's rights, valuing
diversity and challenging intolerance. The Commission seeks to maintain and
strengthen this heritage while identifying and tackling areas where there is still
unfair discrimination or where human rights are not being respected.
Legal disclaimer
This email has been originated in the Equality and Human Rights Commission,
which is an information and guidance service and not a legal advice service. If you
require legal advice, please contact a solicitor. This paragraph does not apply to
an individual who is assisted under section 28 Equality Act 2006. This email
message, including any attachments, is from the Equality and Human Rights
Commission and is intended for the addressee only. It may contain information
that is privileged and confidential. If you are not the intended recipient, you must
not copy, distribute or take any action in reliance of it.
Security warning: Please note that this email has been created in the knowledge
that Internet email is not a 100% secure communications medium. We advise that
you understand and accept this lack of security when emailing us.
If this email message has been sent to you in error, please notify us immediately
by replying to this email. The Equality and Human Rights Commission accepts no
responsibility for any changes made to this message after it has been sent by the
original author. This email or any of its attachments may contain data that falls
within the scope of the Data Protection Acts. You must ensure that any handling or
processing of such data by you is fully compliant with the requirements of the Data
Protection Act 1984 and 1998.
The Equality and Human Rights Commission was established by the Equality Act
2006 as the Commission for Equality and Human Rights.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
This message has been scanned for viruses by Websense
_
From:
Abergelli Power
To:
Rhona Mitchell; Jonathan Sebbage
Cc:
Anderson, Catherine; Williams, Natalie; Dermot Scanlon; Kirstin Gardner; Chris McKerrow
Subject:
FW: Your Reference: Section 42 Abergelli Power. Our Reference: PE134301. Plant Not Affected Notice from
ES Pipelines
Date:
05 February 2018 14:10:55
Response received into the info e-mail account.
 
Kind regards
 
Collette
 
Collette King
Stag Energy
 
t:  +44 (0)131 550 3380
f:  +44 (0)131 550 3399
www.stagenergy.com
 
49 York Place
Edinburgh
EH1 3JD
 
The information contained in or attached to this email is intended only for the use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed.
If you are not the intended recipient, or a person responsible for delivering it to the intended recipient, you are not authorised to and
must not disclose, copy, distribute, or retain this message or any part of it. It may contain information which is confidential and/or
covered by legal professional or other privilege (or other rules or laws with similar effect in jurisdictions outside Scotland). The views
expressed in this email are not necessarily the views of Stag Energy Development Company Limited (the “company”), and the
company, its directors, officers or employees make no representation or accept any liability for its accuracy or completeness unless
expressly stated to the contrary.  We do not accept any liability or responsibility for: (1) changes made to this e-mail or any
attachment after it was sent, or (2) viruses transmitted through this e-mail or any attachment.  Stag Energy Development Co. Ltd. 
Registered Office: 49 York Place, Edinburgh, EH1 3JD Registered in Scotland No SC240966
 
 
 
From: ESP Utilities Group Ltd [mailto:donotreply@espug.com] 
Sent: 05 February 2018 01:48 PM
To: Abergelli Power <info@abergellipower.co.uk>
Subject: Your Reference: Section 42 Abergelli Power. Our Reference: PE134301. Plant Not
Affected Notice from ES Pipelines
 
Dermot Scanlon
Peter Brett Associates LLP 
5 February 2018
 
Reference: Section 42 Abergelli Power
 
Dear Sir/Madam,
 
Thank you for your recent plant enquiry at (Section 42 Abergelli Power).
I can confirm that ESP Gas Group Ltd has no gas or electricity apparatus in the
vicinity of this site address and will not be affected by your proposed works.
ESP are continually laying new gas and electricity networks and this notification is
valid for 90 days from the date of this letter. If your proposed works start after this
period of time, please re-submit your enquiry.
Important Notice
Please be advised that any enquiries for ESP Connections Ltd, formerly known as
British Gas Connections Ltd, should be sent directly to us at the address shown
above or alternatively you can email us at: PlantResponses@espipelines.com
 
Yours faithfully,
 
Alan Slee
Operations Manager
 
Bluebird House
Mole Business Park
Leatherhead
KT22 7BA
( 01372 587500 2 01372 377996
http://www.espug.com
The information in this email is confidential and may be legally privileged. It is intended solely for the addressee. Access to this
email by anyone else is unauthorised. If you are not the intended recipient, any disclosure, copying, distribution or any action taken
or omitted to be taken in reliance on it, is prohibited and may be unlawful.
P Please consider the environment before printing this e-mail
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
This message has been scanned for viruses by Websense
_
From:
llangyfelachcommun@btinternet.com
To:
Abergelli Power
Subject:
URGENT: Statutory Consultation - Objections by Llangyfelach Community Council to the Proposed Gas-Fired
Power Station on Abergelli Farm, Velindre, Swansea by Abergelli Power Ltd.
Date:
19 February 2018 10:04:52
Importance:
High
  
Abergelli Power Ltd.  -   Statutory Consultation.
Application to Apply for a Development Consent Order
to authorise the construction, operation & maintenance of
a Gas Fired  Power Station on Abergelli Farm, Velindre,
Swansea.
Dear Sirs,
Re: Statutary Consultation - Objections  by Llangyfelach Community Council to the
Proposed Gas-Fired Power Station on Abergelli Farm, Velindre, Swansea by Abergelli
Power Ltd.
    Further to your Consultations on behalf of Abergelli Power Ltd with Llangyfelach
Community Council on your proposals, under Section 42 Planning Act 2008 to apply for a
Development Control Order (DCO) under Section 37 of the Planning Act 2008 to authorise
the construction, operation & maintenance of a gas-fired power station on farmland
located North of Swansea; the Community Council wish to Object to the Proposals on the
following grounds:-
 
1. The visual impact of the proposed buildings on the site. 
    For example, Swansea Council has informed the Clerk to the Community Council that the
Generating building measures 50m. x 40m.
    with a height of 27m. & the proposed emission stack is to be 9m. to 12m. in diameter &
45 m. high.
 
2. The operation of such a gas fired power station results in various gases being emitted 
       from the proposed stack which will include the major pollutant NOx.  The local
residents 
       are most concerned, as this proposed station has only to meet the less stringent
       Emission Limit Values (ELV’s) in respect of a 1500 hour Derogation power plant (viz.
less 
       stringent ELV’s for SO2 & NOx apply to power plants which operate for less than
      1500 hours per year on a rolling average over a 5 year period).  The effect of pollution 
      during the proposed working hours of this station, especially if any filtration system
was 
      to become defective or break down & result in the passing of such generated gases
etc.  
      via the buildings/stack.  The effect of pollution from such gas emissions could settle on 
      the proposed 850 dwellings (in the Swansea Local Development Plan) to the West of
the 
      proposed power station, to the South, the existing Swansea Strategic Business Park 
      Felindre & to the South & East onto the nearby hamlet of Bryntywod & the 
      settlements of Llangyfelach & Morriston which includes Morriston Hospital, the major 
      trauma unit for South West Wales.
3.  The Community Council feel that that before a Development Control Order is 
     considered for approval & a Natural Resources Wales permit is also considered for 
     approval; that it would be more appropriate that a more efficient gas fired power
     station should be looked at to include the recycling of hot/warm gases generated, from 
     such a station be used to serve the buildings on the site , the nearby Swansea Business 
     Park & the proposed 850 dwelling etc on Strategic Site G in the Swansea Local 
     Development Plan.
 
4.    A Welsh Official recently stated that they owned a substantial area of land, to the 
       West of the proposed exit from this Station onto the road to Felindre, which could be 
       developed for up to 1000 dwellings.  Originally part of this land included the former 
       Felindre Steelworks site (now part of which is the Swansea Strategic Business Park, 
       Felindre & Strategic Site G in the Swansea Local Development Plan).
      At present, Swansea Council & the Welsh Office have a joint venture scheme to market 
      this existing, aforementioned, laid out & serviced Business Park.  The Community
Council 
      are of the opinion, that should the DCO be approved, the size & height, especially of
the 
      stack of this proposed power station would have a substantial & damaging effect on
the 
      marketability of the aforementioned sites.  The Community Council consider the 
      proposed Residential use & existing Business Park to be more appropriate for their
area,
      especially if the Swansea Barrage scheme is given the go-ahead.
 
 
                                                           Yours sincerely,
 
 
                                                             D. Jenkins.
                                  (Clerk to Llangyfelach Community Council).
 
      
 
From:
ROSSI, Sacha
To:
info@abergellipower.co.uk
Cc:
NATS Safeguarding; Rhona Mitchell
Subject:
RE: Abergelli Power Limited (APL) Statutory Consultation
Date:
02 February 2018 18:48:22
Attachments:
image001.png
image002.png
image003.png
image004.gif
image005.png
image006.png
image007.png
image008.png
image009.png
image010.png
image011.png
image012.png
image013.png
image014.png
image015.png
image016.png
image017.png
Dear Sirs,
 
We acknowledge receipt of the Erratum sent by surface mail to our office.
 
NATS operates no infrastructure within 40km of the proposed site, we anticipate no
impact and hence do not expect to raise any objections to the proposal. However, we
will respond to any formal consultation once it is received from the relevant body.
 
Regards
S. Rossi
NATS Safeguarding Office
Sacha Rossi 
ATC Systems Safeguarding Engineer
D: 01489 444 205
E: sacha.rossi@nats.co.uk
4000 Parkway, Whiteley,
Fareham, Hants PO15 7FL
www.nats.co.uk/windfarms
 
 
 
From: ROSSI, Sacha 
Sent: 29 November 2017 11:06
To: 'Rhona Mitchell'
Cc: NATS Safeguarding
Subject: RE: Abergelli Power Limited (APL) Statutory Consultation
 
Thanks Rhona, we’ll wait to receive the formal consultation and will respond then.
 
Regards
Sacha
 
Sacha Rossi 
ATC Systems Safeguarding Engineer
D: 01489 444 205
E: sacha.rossi@nats.co.uk
4000 Parkway, Whiteley,
Fareham, Hants PO15 7FL
www.nats.co.uk/windfarms
 
 
 
From: Rhona Mitchell [mailto:rmitchell@peterbrett.com] 
Sent: 29 November 2017 10:28
To: ROSSI, Sacha
Cc: NATS Safeguarding
Subject: RE: Abergelli Power Limited (APL) Statutory Consultation
 
Hi Sacha,
 
Many thanks indeed. I have updated our records to reflect the new email address.
 
Kind regards,
 
Rhona Mitchell
Assistant Environmental Consultant
For and on behalf of Peter Brett Associates LLP - Edinburgh
 
 
t
01312977029
e
rmitchell@peterbrett.com
w
peterbrett.com
 
 
 
 
 
From: ROSSI, Sacha [mailto:Sacha.Rossi@nats.co.uk] 
Sent: 27 November 2017 12:42
To: Rhona Mitchell <rmitchell@peterbrett.com>
Cc: NATS Safeguarding <NATSSafeguarding@nats.co.uk>
Subject: RE: Abergelli Power Limited (APL) Statutory Consultation
 
Dear Rhona,
 
Thank you for contacting NATS in respect of the proposed DCO. As NATS operates no
infrastructure within 40km of the proposed site, we anticipate no impact and hence do
not expect to raise any objections to the proposal. However, we will respond to any
formal consultation once it is received from the relevant body.
 
As for receiving formal consultation and any relevant documentation, please take note of
our contact details below.
 
NATS LTD
Safeguarding Office
4000 Parkway
Whiteley
Fareham
Hampshire
PO15 7FL
 
': 01489 444 687
*: natssafeguarding@nats.co.uk
:: www.nats.co.uk/windfarms
 
Also, as we have recently made some changes to our mailbox structure, I would be
grateful if you could confirm receipt of this message by deleting previous instances of
our email address (e.g. in outlook email address auto-fill) and re-typing
natssafeguarding@nats.co.uk from scratch to ensure that the correct inbox is picked up.
 
Should you have any queries, you can also email me directly at any time.
 
Thanks and regards
Sacha
NATS Safeguarding Office
 
Sacha Rossi 
ATC Systems Safeguarding Engineer
D: 01489 444 205
E: sacha.rossi@nats.co.uk
4000 Parkway, Whiteley,
Fareham, Hants PO15 7FL
www.nats.co.uk/windfarms
 
 
 
From: Rhona Mitchell [mailto:rmitchell@peterbrett.com] 
Sent: 27 November 2017 10:19
To: gmb-bdn-000913
Subject: Abergelli Power Limited (APL) Statutory Consultation
 
Dear Sir/Madam,
 
We are contacting you on behalf of Abergelli Power Limited (APL).  APL intend to apply for a
Development Consent Order ("DCO") under section 37 of the Planning Act 2008 (“the 2008 Act”) to
authorise the construction, operation and maintenance of a gas-fired power station (“the Project”) on
farmland located north of Swansea (approximate grid reference 265312, 200988). APL are required
to consult NATS on proposals under section 42 of the 2008 Act.
 
APL consulted NATS in 2014, however the Project was put on hold in March 2015. It is now once
again being taken forward and APL will be undertaking a second phase of statutory consultation.
 
Can you please confirm contact details for all future correspondence regarding the consultation. We
will require both an email and postal address for NATS.
 
All responses to this email should be received by close of play Wednesday 29 November 2017.
 
If you have any questions, please feel free to contact me.
 
Kind regards,
 
Rhona Mitchell
Assistant Environmental Consultant
For and on behalf of Peter Brett Associates LLP - Edinburgh
 
 
t
01312977029
e
rmitchell@peterbrett.com
w
peterbrett.com
 
 
 
This email and any attachments are confidential and protected by copyright. If you receive it in
error, please notify us immediately and remove it from your system. Peter Brett Associates LLP
(PBA) is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales. The terms Partner and
Member refer to a member of PBA and a list is open for inspection at its registered office.
Registered no: OC334398. VAT no: GB115143456. Registered office: Caversham Bridge House,
Waterman Place, Reading, RG1 8DN. T: +44 (0) 0118 950 0761, Email info@peterbrett.com.
 
If you are not the intended recipient, please notify our Help Desk at Email
Information.Solutions@nats.co.uk immediately. You should not copy or use this email or
attachment(s) for any purpose nor disclose their contents to any other person. 
NATS computer systems may be monitored and communications carried on them recorded, to
secure the effective operation of the system. 
Please note that neither NATS nor the sender accepts any responsibility for viruses or any
losses caused as a result of viruses and it is your responsibility to scan or otherwise check this
email and any attachments. 
NATS means NATS (En Route) plc (company number: 4129273), NATS (Services) Ltd (company
number 4129270), NATSNAV Ltd (company number: 4164590) or NATS Ltd (company number
3155567) or NATS Holdings Ltd (company number 4138218). All companies are registered in
England and their registered office is at 4000 Parkway, Whiteley, Fareham, Hampshire, PO15
7FL.
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
This message has been scanned for viruses by Websense
_
This email and any attachments are confidential and protected by copyright. If you receive it in
error, please notify us immediately and remove it from your system. Peter Brett Associates LLP
(PBA) is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales. The terms Partner and
Member refer to a member of PBA and a list is open for inspection at its registered office.
Registered no: OC334398. VAT no: GB115143456. Registered office: Caversham Bridge House,
Waterman Place, Reading, RG1 8DN. T: +44 (0) 0118 950 0761, Email info@peterbrett.com.
 
National Grid house 
Warwick Technology Park 
Gallows Hill, Warwick 
CV34 6DA 
 
National Grid is a trading name for: 
National Grid is  a trading name for: 
National Grid Electricity Transmission plc 
National Grid Gas plc 
Registered Office: 1-3 Strand, London WC2N 5EH 
Registered Office: 1-3 Strand, London WC2N 5EH 
Registered in England and Wales, No 2366977 
Registered in England and Wales, No 2006000 
 
  
 
Land and Acquisitions 
Spencer Jefferies 
Development Liaison Officer 
Network management 
Spencer.Jefferies@nationalgrid.com 
Direct tel: +44 (0)7812 651481 
 
SUBMITTED ELECTRONICALLY: 
info@abergellipower.co.uk 
 
 
www.nationalgrid.com 
19 February 2018 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
Dear Sir/Madam 
 
ABERGELLI POWER LIMITED: PROPOSED GAS FIRED POWER PLANT AT LAND 
ADJACENT TO THE FELINDRE GAS COMPRESSOR STATION AT ABERGELLI FARM (THE 
ORDER). 
 
SECTION 42 OF THE PLANNING ACT. 
 
 
This is a response on behalf of National Grid Electricity Transmission PLC (NGET) and National Grid 
Gas PLC (NGG) 
 
I refer to your letter dated 5h January 2018 regarding the Order. NGET and NGG wish to express 
their interest in further consultation while the impacts on our assets are still being assessed. 
 
In respect of existing NGET and NGG infrastructure, both will require appropriate protection for 
retained apparatus including compliance with relevant standards for works proposed within close 
proximity of its apparatus; providing that the order affects NGET & NGG apparatus in any way. 
 
 
 
 
Where the Promoter intends to acquire land, extinguish rights, or interfere with any of 
NGET’s & NGG’s apparatus, both will require appropriate protection and further discussion 
on the impact to its apparatus and rights. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
National Grid house 
Warwick Technology Park 
Gallows Hill, Warwick 
CV34 6DA 
 
National Grid is a trading name for: 
National Grid is  a trading name for: 
National Grid Electricity Transmission plc 
National Grid Gas plc 
Registered Office: 1-3 Strand, London WC2N 5EH 
Registered Office: 1-3 Strand, London WC2N 5EH 
Registered in England and Wales, No 2366977 
Registered in England and Wales, No 2006000 
 
Specific Comments – Electricity Infrastructure: 
 
 
National Grid’s Overhead Line/s is protected by a Deed of Easement/Wayleave Agreement 
which provides full right of access to retain, maintain, repair and inspect our asset 
 
 
Statutory electrical safety clearances must be maintained at all times. Any proposed 
buildings must not be closer than 5.3m to the lowest conductor. National Grid recommends 
that no permanent structures are built directly beneath overhead lines. These distances are 
set out in EN 43 – 8 Technical Specification for “overhead line clearances Issue 3 (2004) 
and also shown in the following National Grid Document:  
http://www2.nationalgrid.com/WorkArea/DownloadAsset.aspx?id=6169  
 
 
If any changes in ground levels are proposed either beneath or in close proximity to our 
existing overhead lines then this would serve to reduce the safety clearances for such 
overhead lines. Safe clearances for existing overhead lines must be maintained in all 
circumstances. 
 
 
The relevant guidance in relation to working safely near to existing overhead lines is 
contained within the Health and Safety Executive’s (www.hse.gov.uk) Guidance Note GS 6 
“Avoidance of Danger from Overhead Electric Lines”  and all relevant site staff should 
make sure that they are both aware of and understand this guidance. 
 
 
Plant, machinery, equipment, buildings or scaffolding should not encroach within 5.3 
metres of any of our high voltage conductors when those conductors are under their worse 
conditions of maximum “sag” and “swing” and overhead line profile (maximum “sag” and 
“swing”) drawings should be obtained using the contact details above. 
 
 
If a landscaping scheme is proposed as part of the proposal, we request that only slow and 
low growing species of trees and shrubs are planted beneath and adjacent to the existing 
overhead line to reduce the risk of growth to a height which compromises statutory safety 
clearances. 
 
 
Drilling or excavation works should not be undertaken if they have the potential to disturb 
or adversely affect the foundations or “pillars of support” of any existing tower.  These 
foundations always extend beyond the base area of the existing tower and foundation 
(“pillar of support”) drawings can be obtained using the contact details above. 
 
 
 
National Grid Electricity Transmission high voltage underground cables are protected by a 
Deed of Grant; Easement; Wayleave Agreement or the provisions of the New Roads and 
Street Works Act. These provisions provide National Grid full right of access to retain, 
maintain, repair and inspect our assets. Hence we require that no permanent / temporary 
structures are to be built over our cables or within the easement strip. Any such proposals 
should be discussed and agreed with National Grid prior to any works taking place.  
 
 
Ground levels above our cables must not be altered in any way. Any alterations to the 
depth of our cables will subsequently alter the rating of the circuit and can compromise the 
reliability, efficiency and safety of our electricity network and requires consultation with 
National Grid prior to any such changes in both level and construction being implemented. 
 
National Grid house 
Warwick Technology Park 
Gallows Hill, Warwick 
CV34 6DA 
 
National Grid is a trading name for: 
National Grid is  a trading name for: 
National Grid Electricity Transmission plc 
National Grid Gas plc 
Registered Office: 1-3 Strand, London WC2N 5EH 
Registered Office: 1-3 Strand, London WC2N 5EH 
Registered in England and Wales, No 2366977 
Registered in England and Wales, No 2006000 
 
Gas Infrastructure 
 
The following points should be taken into consideration: 
 
 
National Grid has a Deed of Grant of Easement for each pipeline, which prevents the 
erection of permanent / temporary buildings, or structures, change to existing ground 
levels, storage of materials etc.  
 
 
Pipeline Crossings: 
 
 
Where existing roads cannot be used, construction traffic should ONLY cross the pipeline 
at previously agreed locations.  
 
 
The pipeline shall be protected, at the crossing points, by temporary rafts constructed at 
ground level. The third party shall review ground conditions, vehicle types and crossing 
frequencies to determine the type and construction of the raft required.  
 
 
The type of raft shall be agreed with National Grid prior to installation. 
 
 
No protective measures including the installation of concrete slab protection shall be 
installed over or near to the National Grid pipeline without the prior permission of National 
Grid.  
 
 
National Grid will need to agree the material, the dimensions and method of installation of 
the proposed protective measure.  
 
 
The method of installation shall be confirmed through the submission of a formal written 
method statement from the contractor to National Grid. 
 
 
Please be aware that written permission is required before any works commence within the 
National Grid easement strip. 
 
 
A National Grid representative shall monitor any works within close proximity to the 
pipeline to comply with National Grid specification T/SP/SSW22. 
 
A Deed of Consent is required for any crossing of the easement 
 
Cables Crossing: 
 
 
Cables may cross the pipeline at perpendicular angle to the pipeline i.e. 90 degrees. 
 
 
A National Grid representative shall supervise any cable crossing of a pipeline. 
 
 
Clearance must be at least 600mm above or below the pipeline. 
 
 
Impact protection slab should be laid between the cable and pipeline if cable crossing is 
above the pipeline. 
 
 
National Grid house 
Warwick Technology Park 
Gallows Hill, Warwick 
CV34 6DA 
 
National Grid is a trading name for: 
National Grid is  a trading name for: 
National Grid Electricity Transmission plc 
National Grid Gas plc 
Registered Office: 1-3 Strand, London WC2N 5EH 
Registered Office: 1-3 Strand, London WC2N 5EH 
Registered in England and Wales, No 2366977 
Registered in England and Wales, No 2006000 
 
 
A Deed of Consent is required for any cable crossing the easement. 
 
 
Where a new service is to cross over the pipeline a clearance distance of 0.6 metres 
between the crown of the pipeline and underside of the service should be maintained. If 
this cannot be achieved the service shall cross below the pipeline with a clearance 
distance of 0.6 metres. 
 
General Notes on Pipeline Safety: 
 
 
You should be aware of the Health and Safety Executives guidance document HS(G) 47 
"Avoiding Danger from Underground Services", and National Grid’s specification for Safe 
Working in the Vicinity of National Grid High Pressure gas pipelines and associated 
installations - requirements for third parties T/SP/SSW22.  
 
National Grid will also need to ensure that our pipelines access is maintained during and 
after construction.  
 
 
Our pipelines are normally buried to a depth cover of 1.1 metres however; actual depth and 
position must be confirmed on site by trial hole investigation under the supervision of a 
National Grid representative. Ground cover above our pipelines should not be reduced or 
increased. 
 
 
If any excavations are planned within 3 metres of National Grid High Pressure Pipeline or, 
within 10 metres of an AGI (Above Ground Installation), or if any embankment or dredging 
works are proposed then the actual position and depth of the pipeline must be established 
on site in the presence of a National Grid representative. A safe working method agreed 
prior to any work taking place in order to minimise the risk of damage and ensure the final 
depth of cover does not affect the integrity of the pipeline. 
 
 
Excavation works may take place unsupervised no closer than 3 metres from the pipeline 
once the actual depth and position has been has been confirmed on site under the 
supervision of a National Grid representative. Similarly, excavation with hand held power 
tools is not permitted within 1.5 metres from our apparatus and the work is undertaken with 
NG supervision and guidance. 
 
 
I hope the above information is useful. If you require any further information please do not hesitate 
to contact me.  
 
 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
 
 
Spencer Jefferies 
Development Liaison Officer, Land and Acquisitions. 
From:
Morgan Barbara
To:
Abergellipower
Subject:
Abergelli Power
Date:
15 February 2018 08:33:00
Abergelli Power Station, land adjacent to the Felindre Gas Compressor Station at Abergelli Farm, Felindre, Swansea SA5 7NN
Notification under Regulation 11 of the Infrastructure Planning (Environmental Impact Assessment) Regulations 2009 (as amended) the “EIA Regulations”).
I refer to your letter dated 2 January 2018 in respect of the Environmental Impact Assessment being undertaken on the Abergelli Power Station for a Development Consent Order in relation to the proposed power generation plant and
associated underground gas pipeline infrastructure and access road. The following outlines Network Rail’s comments:
Network Rail is a statutory undertaker responsible for maintaining and operating the railway infrastructure and associated estate. It owns, operates, maintains and develops the main rail network. Network Rail aims to protect and enhance the
railway infrastructure therefore any proposed development which is in close proximity to the railway line or could potentially affect Network Rail’s specific land interests, will need to be carefully considered.
Please note that Network Rail will seek protection from the exercise of compulsory purchase powers over operational land whether for permanent or temporary purposes.
Any proposals that include the installation of cables under or over the railway, any methods of electricity transmissions across Network Rail’s land, or any access rights, temporary or otherwise will require the necessary property agreements to
be entered into with our Easements and Wayleaves team who can be contacted on easements@wayleaves@networkrail.co.uk.
They physical railway infrastructure must be protected and the development muse ensure that it does not have an adverse effect upon the safety of the railway. This may be through increased usage of a level crossing or rail bridge by
construction traffic associated with the proposed development or disruption to rail services during installation or maintenance of the overhead lines across the railway line. If there is any impact upon rail infrastructure, this must be examined
and addressed within Abergelli Power Limited’s Environmental Statement.
Network Rail would have strong concerns if, during the construction or operation of the power generation plant, abnormal loads would use routes that include Network Rail’s assets (e.g. level crossings, bridges etc) and would advise that
contact is made with Network Rail’s Asset Protection Engineers to confirm if any proposed route is viable. The initial point of contact is assetprotectionwales@networkrail.co.uk. The department will provide all necessary Engineering support
subject to a Basic Asset Protection Agreement.
I would also advise that where damage, injury or delay to the rail network is caused by abnormal loads (related to the development) Abergelli Power Limited or contractors would incur full liability.
Regards,
Barbara Morgan
Town Planning Technician (Western & Wales)
1st Floor Templepoint
Redcliffe Way, Bristol BS1 6NL
Tel: 0117 372 1125 int. 085 80125
Email: townplanningwestern@networkrail.co.uk
www.networkrail.co.uk/property
****************************************************************************************************************************************************************
The content of this email (and any attachment) is confidential. It may also be legally privileged or otherwise protected from disclosure. 
This email should not be used by anyone who is not an original intended recipient, nor may it be copied or disclosed to anyone who is not an original intended recipient.
If you have received this email by mistake please notify us by emailing the sender, and then delete the email and any copies from your system.
Liability cannot be accepted for statements made which are clearly the sender's own and not made on behalf of Network Rail.
Network Rail Infrastructure Limited registered in England and Wales No. 2904587, registered office Network Rail, 2nd Floor, One Eversholt Street, London, NW1 2DN
****************************************************************************************************************************************************************
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
This message has been scanned for viruses by Websense
_
 
www.cyfoethnaturiolcymru.gov.uk  
www.naturalresourceswales.gov.uk 
 
 
Natural Resources Wales, Maes Newydd, Llandarcy, Neath Port Talbot, SA10 6JQ 
 
Croesewir gohebiaeth yn y Gymraeg a'r Saesneg 
Correspondence welcomed in Welsh and English 
 
 
Annwyl / Dear Mr. Scanlon 
 
ABERGELLI POWER LIMITED: PROPOSED GAS FIRED POWER PLANT AT 
LAND ADJACENT TO THE FELINDRE GAS COMPRESSOR STATION AT 
ABERGELLI FARM, FELINDRE, SWANSEA, SA5 7NN 
 
CONSULTATION UNDER SECTION 42 OF THE PLANNING ACT 2008 
 
Thank you for consulting Cyfoeth Naturiol Cymru (CNC)/ Natural Resources Wales 
(NRW) on the above Nationally Significant Infrastructure Project (NSIP) pre-
application, which we received on 5 January 2018. 
 
The letter and accompanying documentation (namely the Preliminary Environmental 
Information Report dated January 2018 (PEIR)), comprises consultation under Section 
42 of the Planning Act 2008 of which we are a prescribed consultee.  We are also the 
‘appropriate nature conservation body’ under the Conservation of Habitats and 
Species Regulations 2017 (as amended) (the Habitats Regulations). 
 
We note the information may be subject to further update and revision and the full 
results of the various technical studies undertaken will be provided in the subsequent 
Development Consent Order (DCO) application. On this basis, we reserve the right to 
make further comments and representations during the formal NSIP process. 
 
The operation of this development gives rise to Combustion Activities under Schedule 
1 Part 2 of the Environmental Permitting (England and Wales) Regulations 2016 and 
we are the determining authority for an Environmental Permit for such activity. The 
Environmental Permit is determined under distinct and separate legislation. At this 
time, no application for an Environmental Permit has been made.  
 
Notwithstanding the above, our comments are made purely on the information 
contained within the submitted PEIR. They are without prejudice to any comments we 
may subsequently wish to make during the pre-examination and examination stages 
of the process as well as in determining any Environmental Permit. 
 
Dermot Scanlon 
Peter Brett Associates LLP 
3rd Floor 
Randolph House 
4 Charlotte Lane 
Edinburgh 
EH2 4QZ 
Ein cyf / Our ref: CAS-51615-R0Z7 
 
 
 
 
Dyddiad / Date: 15 February 2018 
Maes Newydd 
Llandarcy 
Neath Port Talbot 
SA10 6JQ 
 
Ffon / Phone: 0300 065 3358 
E-bost / E-mail: 
swplanning@cyfoethnaturiolcymru.gov.uk 
 
 
 
 
2 
Our detailed comments on the PEIR are provided in the attached Annex I and follow 
the layout of the information as presented in your report. We have set out the issues 
that require further clarification or information.  
 
I hope the above comments are helpful. If you have any queries or require any further 
information, please do not hesitate to contact Hannah Roberts (Development Planning 
Advisor) using the details above. 
 
Yn ddiffuant  / Yours sincerely 
 
Gemma Beynon 
Development Planning Manager, Operations South 
 
Enclosed: Annex 1 – Natural Resources Wales’ Comments 
 
 
 
 
 
3 
ANNEX 1  
Natural Resources Wales’ Comments  
Section 42 consultation by Abergelli Power Limited  
Abergelli Power Project Preliminary Environmental Information Report 
 
1. Chapter 3 – Project Site and Description 
 
1.1. Section 3.7.7 states that “Water courses and ditches will be diverted around the 
Generating Equipment Site, with silt traps, straw bale filters and attenuation pond 
formed for any surface water outlet from the Generating Equipment Site. Water from 
the attenuation ponds will be discharged in a controlled manner to the Afon Llan”. 
Straw bales are also referenced in the various embedded mitigation and management 
plans, and also in the Construction Environmental Management Plan (CEMP) in 
Appendix 3.1. Straw bales may only be effective in reducing run-off velocity, though 
not the quality of that run-off if it contains fine suspended material, and are therefore 
not an effective form of silt control. The use of sedimats or similarly commercially 
available products should be investigated for this development.  
 
1.2. Any mechanical form of treatment for handling contaminated discharges arising 
on site from the construction phase requires an Environmental Permit from NRW, and 
NRW should be contacted for advice. In any event, all discharges to controlled waters 
must be free from polluting matter including suspended sediment. 
 
1.3. Section 3.8.10 states that “Areas surrounding and between the Generating 
Equipment will be levelled and crushed stone placed. Stored topsoil is placed in areas 
free from Generating Equipment, including the temporary site laydown areas.”. It is 
recommended that any stored stockpiles of material e.g. soils, are surrounded at their 
base by silt fencing (dug in as recommended by manufacturer guidelines) to prevent 
contaminated run-off being generated during inclement weather conditions. Similarly, 
the overall quantity of excavated material (solid) from the construction is estimated to 
be approximately 19,000m3. Any stockpiles of this material should also be afforded 
the same protection. 
 
1.4. Section 3.11.3 refers to the requirement of a site foul water drainage system, 
which cannot connect to a public sewer due to the distance of the site. A preference 
for a package treatment plant has been shown, with processed water discharging on 
site or to a nearby watercourse. Once the foul water system and disposal method is 
agreed, we advise you consult with NRW as an EPR permit may be required for the 
discharge. 
Further 
information 
can 
be 
found 
online 
at 
https://naturalresources.wales/permits-and-permissions/water-discharges/?lang=en  
 
1.5. The proposed oily water drainage system referred to in section 3.11.4 should also 
be compliant with the Oil Storage Regulations 2016 and Pollution Prevention 
Guidance 3: Use and design of oil separators in surface water drainage systems.  
 
 
 
4 
1.6. Section 3.11.8 refers to the provision of an attenuation pond for surface water 
drainage with “An emergency overflow will be provided to the attenuation ponds to 
prevent site flooding in the event of an extreme rainfall event.” We advise that as well 
as an emergency overflow, emergency cut-off via a penstock valve should be 
incorporated in the event of having to contain contaminated run-off (e.g. from an 
unforeseen pollution incident or from fire-fighting run-off.) 
 
1.7. Section 3.11.16 states that “The Project will require an Environmental Permit to 
operate as required by the Environmental Permitting Regulations 2016 (as amended), 
and monitoring the performance of the Generating Equipment against the permit 
conditions will be the responsibility of NRW. The performance of the emissions control 
will require monitoring by stack emissions testing throughout operation and the 
Generating Equipment will be ‘fine-tuned' so as to ensure that limits are not exceeded”. 
For clarity, the monitoring will be the responsibility of the EPR permit holder/operator. 
NRW will only be responsible for checking that the monitoring conducted is in 
compliance with the relevant permit conditions. 
 
1.8. Section 3.11.36 refers to hydrological protection measures and we advise that 
these should include the same considerations as advised in section 1.3 above. 
 
1.9. Section 3.11.41 states that “The oil separator will be fitted with an alarm to indicate 
when the oil coalesce requires emptying. All oil separators will be sized to suit the oily 
water catchment area”. It would also be prudent to conduct periodic manual/visual 
checks and maintenance, which should be incorporated into the relevant management 
plan in this respect. 
 
2. Chapter 6 – Air Quality 
 
2.1. No Significant Effects Report (NSER) 
 
2.1.1. Nitrogen oxides (NOx) 
For the Natura 2000 (N2K) sites, we agree that there is no likely significant effect alone 
from the emissions and depositions of NOx. Table 1-6 within the NSER shows that for 
the annual and daily NOx the contributions are below 1% and with the addition of 
background levels, the total NOx is below 70% of the relevant critical levels. We do 
note however, that based on the Wealden Judgement, although the contributions are 
below 1% and may not be significant alone, this does not rule out the requirement of 
an in-combination assessment – this has been highlighted in section 1.3.11 of the 
report (please see section 2.1.3. for further details). 
 
2.1.2. Nitrogen deposition 
 
2.1.2.1. The Nitrogen deposition as shown in (Table 1-7, p1-18) have not been 
displayed as percentage values. The contributions from the development to the N2K 
sites are below 1% of the relevant nitrogen critical load. Further assessment alone is 
 
 
5 
therefore not required, however as above, based on the Wealden Judgment indicated 
an in combination is required (see section 2.1.3). 
 
2.1.3. In Combination Effects 
 
2.1.3.1 A list of plans and projects is presented in Table 1-8 and section 1.5.3 has 
identified two projects that could act in combination with the development. Sections 
1.5.4 and 1.5.5 explain why these projects are not going to act in combination with 
Abergelli. We advise additional information to be added to this section detailing and 
confirming (if appropriate) where projects have changes in traffic emissions, that N2K 
sites are further than the 200m screening distance for road traffic assessments. 
Additionally, for other developments that have emissions, it would be beneficial to 
demonstrate that those developments are beyond their relevant screening distances.  
 
2.1.4. Nant y Crimp SSSI 
 
2.1.4.1. We advise that an assessment of Air Quality impacts (both alone, and 
cumulative effects) on the Sites of Special Scientific Interest (SSSI) within the relevant 
screening distance (2km) is required to be submitted.  
 
2.1.5. Hydrological Connectivity 
 
2.1.5.1. We accept that the pollution control measures contained within the project 
proposals (‘embedded mitigation’) if implemented as designed (and subject to our 
comments in sections 1 and 5 of this letter) should mean that there will be no significant 
impacts on the water environment as a result of pollution from both construction and 
operation of the facility. 
 
2.1.5.2. We note however the proposed inclusion of a package treatment plant to deal 
with foul water drainage may result in an increase in nutrient levels within the receiving 
waters. Increased nutrient levels has the potential to undermine the water quality 
conservation objective for the Carmarthen Bay Special Are of Conservation (SAC) and 
Burry Inlet Special Protection Area (SPA) and Ramsar sites, and while we accept that 
this impact from the development is unlikely to be significant alone, there is the 
potential for in-combination effects with other potential developments or licence 
variations around the estuary. We therefore advise that this should be screened into 
the assessment and sufficient information provided to enable the potential impacts to 
be assessed accordingly. 
 
2.1.5.3. We also advise that tables 1-4 and 1-5 in the NSER should be updated under 
the ‘Justification for inclusion in HRA screening’ column to include hydrological 
connectivity between the development site and the protected sites via the Afon Llan 
and Afon Lliw.   
 
 
 
 
 
6 
3. Chapter 7 – Noise and Vibration 
 
3.1. The following points will need to be addressed as part of the permitting stage. 
Operational sound is discussed in the report in section 7.4.24 onwards. The operator 
has advised that BS4142 is not appropriate to the level of operational sound at night, 
due to low background sound level at night. We note that the lowest L90 was chosen 
to represent the background sound level. We advise that the data presented in the ES 
for background sound level (L90) is not sufficient to be able to present a typical, 
representative sound level and may not be appropriate for permitting.  
 
3.2. The use of BS4142 at night has been omitted and World Health Organisations 
(WHO) Night noise guidelines for Europe has been opted to be used, which the 
guidelines define as the 1 year LAeq over 8 hours. We have however been presented 
with a 10-minute sample. WHO also excludes sound with characteristics which is 
associated with industrial noise. 
 
3.3. We acknowledge the consultants need to undertake additional monitoring which 
should produce a greater detailed data set for the L90 and residual sound, and once 
this has been presented we would consider whether BS4142 is more suitable for night 
time sound.  
 
3.4. All assumptions must be clearly identified in the modelling of the operational 
sound and presented in accordance with the guidelines in the following document - 
https://www.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/52118
9/972_14.pdf  
 
4. Chapter 8 – Ecology 
 
4.1. Dormice 
 
4.1.1.  We welcome the dormice surveys undertaken to inform the application and note 
the results of the surveys.  It appears that dormice are unlikely to be affected by the 
proposals and therefore we have no further comment on this species. 
 
4.2. Great Crested Newts 
 
4.2.1. We welcome the Great Crested Newt (GCN) surveys undertaken to inform the 
application and note the results of those surveys. Accordingly, we have no further 
comment to make. 
 
4.3. Bats 
 
4.3.1. We note the bat surveys that have been undertaken so far and that further bat 
activity surveys are planned for Spring 2018, with the results to be included in the DCO 
submission. 
 
 
7 
 
4.3.2. We welcome figure 7 within Appendix 8.7 entitled ‘Bat Activity - Areas of 
Potential Impact’ which shows where bat flightlines along habitat features may be 
severed by habitat removal and/or lighting.  We consider that these matters should be 
addressed by reinstating the hedgerows and rows of trees in the north of the site, 
following the installation of the proposed gas pipeline. This will ensure that bat 
flightpaths along habitat features are maintained. 
 
4.3.3. In addition to the above, we advise the agreement of a lighting plan that limits 
lighting of the site’s infrastructure and not on the surrounding vegetation, by creating 
dark corridors within the project site. We note that an outline lighting strategy is to be 
submitted as part of the DCO submission (this should cover construction, operational 
and emergency lighting proposals). This should demonstrate the location of the dark 
corridors to continue to allow species to commute and forage across the project site. 
Focus should be on the ancient woodland area to the north/north-east of the 
generating station site, where figure 7 has highlighted an area of potential impacts on 
bats from lighting. In addition to bats, otters are thought to be using the ditches in this 
area, and we note that there are proposals to re-route ditches around this area, which 
may increase activity.  
 
4.3.4. We note that the mine adit and mine shaft is currently being assessed for its 
potential to support bats, and welcome that the results will be included in the final 
submission.  
 
4.4. Otters and Water voles 
 
4.4.1. We welcome the surveys for otters and water voles and note the results. We 
require clarification on the likely impacts of the proposals on the watercourses on site. 
We note that the internal access road has not yet been decided on, with two options 
in place. Further information on the final route of the access route should be submitted, 
along with an assessment of its impacts on the watercourses on site, to include any 
culverting and re-routing of watercourses, and riparian habitat retention/reinstatement. 
Clarification is required of the measures that will be put in place to ensure that these 
species can continue to move along the watercourse.  
 
4.4.2. The lighting impacts to the watercourses (particularly those in the eastern part 
of the site) should be addressed by an agreed lighting plan (please see section 4.3.3. 
above for further detail). 
 
4.5 Habitats 
 
4.5.1. We welcome that an outline Ecological Management Plan and Landscape 
Mitigation Strategy are to be submitted as part of the DCO submission. The PEIR has 
quantified the amount of habitat loss (permanent and temporary) expected as part of 
the development in section 8.7 iii (Habitats), however this has not been demonstrated 
on any plans submitted. We note that the final internal access road has not yet been 
 
 
8 
decided on, and therefore the definitive impacts on habitats has not yet been clarified. 
Upon agreement of the internal infrastructure, a plan should be provided of the current 
habitats, overlaid with the proposed infrastructure, demonstrating the quantity and 
location of habitats to be affected or removed (temporarily or permanently). Table 8-
17 should be updated to reflect any of these changes. 
 
4.5.2. In addition to this, a proposed long-term habitat management plan (HMP) 
detailing retained features, mitigation and enhancement of habitats should be 
provided. This should also detail how these areas will be managed and monitored. 
 
4.5.3. Section 8.7.23 states that “no habitat loss is anticipated for Ancient Woodland 
(area) 6, with regards to the widening of the Access Road.” It also notes that there will 
be a permanent loss of 0.09ha of the Ancient Woodland 2 habitat, due to route of the 
new internal access road. We note however that the route of these roads has not been 
agreed yet, and advise that ancient woodland habitat removal should be avoided 
where possible. Planning Policy Wales (November 2016) Chapter 5 states in section 
5.2.9. that “Ancient and semi-natural woodlands are irreplaceable habitats of high 
biodiversity value which should be protected from development that would result in 
significant damage.” We refer you to the City and County of Swansea’s Local 
Development Plan Policy ‘ER 11 – Trees and Development’ in relation to Ancient 
Woodland. 
 
4.5.4. The areas of marshy grassland on the development site have been identified 
within the ecological surveys as having the appropriate structure and species 
composition to support marsh fritillary butterflies.  While we appreciate that marsh 
fritillaries have not been identified as currently using the site, the development site is 
within the larger meta-population area, which includes Nant Y Crimp SSSI and several 
other areas of suitable habitat and known marsh fritillary records.  We therefore 
recommend that suitable mitigation is included for the temporary and permanent loss 
of marsh grassland habitat that will occur as a result of the development. This could 
include managing the remaining areas of marshy grassland for the benefit of marsh 
fritillaries and restoring the temporary storage areas to marshy grassland once 
construction activities are complete, and can be included in the HMP. 
 
5. Chapter 9 – Water Quality and Resources 
 
5.1. Flood Risk 
 
5.1.1. The majority of the red line boundary of the development lies within zone B, as 
defined by the development advice map referred to under Technical Advice Note 
(TAN) 15 Development and Flood Risk. A small southern section of the site lies within 
zone C2 due to its proximity to the River Llan, however we note that no built 
development is proposed within this area. 
 
5.1.2. We note that this land is proposed for ecological mitigation however no further 
detail has yet been provided on this. We advise that if these proposals include raising 
of land within the flood zone (C2), this may need to be assessed further in terms of 
 
 
9 
flood risk. Additionally, any works on the River Llan may also require a Flood Risk 
Activity Permit from NRW. 
 
5.2. Water Framework Directive 
 
5.2.1. We note the submission of the Water Framework Directive (WFD) screening 
assessment for this project. We agree with its conclusion that the project will not have 
a significant adverse effect on the River Llan waterbody from a WFD perspective, and 
that no further assessments are required. 
 
5.3. General Comments 
 
5.3.1. There are references to surface water attenuation ponds throughout the PEIR. 
There are also references to a fire water tank for storing water if required to tackle a 
fire. We advise that you should consider the proposed surface water attenuation pond 
to be potentially dual use i.e. a sustainable drainage solution, which also doubles as 
green infrastructure, whereby the water could be re-used/recycled for fire-fighting 
purposes in the event of an emergency and negate the need for an additional fire water 
storage tank. If carefully considered at the design stage, then this could provide 
greater capacity for attenuation.   
 
5.3.2. Section 9.7.6 states that “The magnitude of potential impacts to surface water 
receptors will be most significant when working in areas adjacent to a water body or 
drainage channel. If they occur, the impacts will be direct and temporary - water quality 
within the affected water body is expected to improve over time as sediments settle or 
are trapped by vegetation and pollutants such as hydrocarbons, oils and other 
hazardous products are dispersed, diluted and treated by natural processes”. We 
advise that this should not be relied upon as appropriate mitigation in response to any 
adverse impact during construction. 
 
5.3.3. The draft CEMP, Surface Water and Environmental Management Plans 
(appendices 3.1 and 9.1) appear to incorporate matters raised for consideration in 
response to the previous PEIR consultation, and appear to be acceptable. We do note 
however that these documents will be developed further when more specific details of 
the development emerge in the coming stages. 
 
6. Chapter 10 – Geology, Ground Conditions and Hydrogeology 
 
6.1. Pollution prevention measures to protect controlled waters appear to be covered 
in the draft Construction Environmental Management Plan (CEMP) and the CEMP will 
cover the construction and operation of the power plant. Please note that dewatering 
for engineering works is no longer classed as exempt under the Water Resources Act 
1991, and therefore may require an abstraction licence from NRW depending on the 
volume and duration of the dewatering proposed. Further information on this and how 
to 
apply, 
can 
be 
found 
at: 
https://naturalresources.wales/permits-and-
 
 
10 
permissions/water-abstraction-and-impoundment/changes-to-water-abstraction-
licensing-exemptions/?lang=en  
 
6.2. Section 10.5.26 and 10.5.27 refer to the presence of peat located in the north east 
of the Generating Equipment Site and to the north west of Abergelli farm, however no 
further information has been given on the extent of peat or its depth. We note that a 
ground investigation is proposed is to be carried out at the post-consent stage. The 
final design will incorporate suitable mitigation on the basis of these findings to 
minimise disturbance with peat, and a Peat Management Plan (PMP) is proposed. 
Section 10.5.27 states that the PMP will be submitted as part of the final ES in the 
DCO submission. We recommend that information on the location and extent of peat 
is provided upfront as part of the DCO submission. A peat survey should comply of a 
minimum of 1 peat probe per hectare of development area, and 1 peat core per 10 
peat probes. This will show the distribution of peat across the development area so 
that the main areas of deep peat can be avoided by infrastructure, and therefore inform 
the subsequent PMP. 
 
7. Chapter 11 – Landscape and Visual Effects 
 
7.1. We note that photographs and photomontages for the two additional viewpoints 
(Mynydd Gelliwastad and Fairwood Common) that we requested in our email of 11 
December 2017 are in preparation and will be submitted as part of the DCO 
submission. 
 
7.2. We require further information regarding the landscape mitigation and restoration 
proposals to include details of the proposed woodland, hedgerows, grassland and 
attenuation ponds. This is also discussed in (and linked to) section 4.5.1 in this letter. 
We note that section 3.11.55 refers to planting proposals within figures 11.10-11.12, 
however we have only been provided with figure 11.10 at this stage. 
 
7.3. Section 11.6.10 refers to the provision of a Landscape and Ecological 
Management Plan (LEMP), with a minimum 5-year management put forward. We 
advise that the proposed landscape mitigation should be proposed for 25 years, which 
is a standard time length for an LEMP. This will enable long term planning for habitats 
such as woodlands. We advise that the LEMP could be reviewed every 5 years.  
 
7.4.  Further detail on the colour scheme for the development should be provided. We 
note that recessive and matt colours are proposed, however in some of the 
photomontages the stack and buildings appear pale and therefore stand out (however 
we note this might be for the benefit of the photomontages.) Colour can affect visibility 
and therefore may affect assessment results. 
 
7.5. Table 4-2 ‘Items Scoped out of the EIA’ under section 4.3.12 refers to Gower Area 
of Outstanding Natural Beauty (AONB) being scoped out of the EIA.  This was noted 
in section G.1.3. of our previous letter (dated 14 November 2014), however we 
requested a photomontage from Gower (Fairwood Common), which we note is 
 
 
11 
currently in production. We advise the text in table 4-2 is amended to reflect this, if it 
provides supporting evidence on why the Gower AONB has been scoped out. 
  
7.6.  Table 11-2 refers to NRW’s scoping opinion letter dated August 2014 and 
Paragraph 3.66 of the Secretary of State’s Scoping Opinion. The table states that 
“NRW…don’t require the Park Authority (Brecon Beacons National Park (BBNP)) to 
be consulted”. It is not NRW’s role to advise who should be consulted. Our view (as 
stated within our email dated 4 December 2017 to Aecom) was that a viewpoint from 
BBNP wasn’t necessary. 
 
7.7.  We require clarification on the photographic information of all viewpoints including 
distance from the proposal, horizontal angle of view and number of frames in 
panoramas. 
 
7.8.  Please include single frame photographs with a 40-degree horizontal angle of 
view, reproduced at A3 as extracts from panoramas (for example, for panoramas VP 
1 and 18). Panoramas do show context, however single frames at A3 can be held up 
in the field and demonstrate the level of detail seen with the eye. This combination 
provides a more accurate assessment of the visual effects. 
7.9. A.2 Table 1: VVM Viewpoint Information within the ‘Landscape and Visual 
Photomontages’ document states for example that viewpoint (VP) 18 is 450.4m away, 
VP 1 is 1985.1m and VP 14 is 10247.6m. Please can it be confirmed if these distances, 
and all others in the document provided are correct. 
 
7.9.  The location of the development on all photomontages (for example, the red 
outline as shown on VP12) needs to be provided for all viewpoints. This information 
appears to be missing from many viewpoints provided. 
 
8. Environmental Permit 
 
8.1. General Comments 
 
8.1.1. We advise that the proposed power station will require an environmental permit 
under the Environmental Permitting (England and Wales) Regulations 2016 (EPR), 
(as amended), Schedule 1, Part 2, Chapter 1, Section 1.1. Combustion Activities. 
 
8.1.2. Please note a full technical assessment of the supporting documentation will be 
undertaken in the determination stage of the environmental permit application. 
 
8.1.3. We recommend that the applicant twin tracks the planning and permit 
application in order for all information to be considered at the same time, and for NRW 
to provide specific advice for the applicant and other stakeholders. The Section 
‘Environmental Permitting’ of the Planning Inspectorate Advice Note 11 (Annex A – 
Cyfoeth Naturiol Cymru/Natural Resources Wales) states “Permit assessments can 
provide useful information which will inform the Examining authority’s (ExA) 
recommendations to the Secretary of State. Applicants are therefore encouraged to 
 
 
12 
co-ordinate the timing of their environmental permit applications with their DCO 
application in order to facilitate timely decision-making.” 
 
8.1.4. Following the publication of the Large Combustion Plant (LCP) Best Reference 
Document (BREF) in December 2017, the Best Available Techniques (BAT) 
conclusions (BATc) are now in effect and will need to be complied with as well as 
Annex V of the Industrial Emissions Directive (IED). Please note that UK regulators 
are currently in the process of interpreting the recently published LCP BREF and what 
this will mean for the combustion sector. 
 
8.1.5. New plant standards will apply to this proposal in respect of the Industrial 
Emissions Directive (IED) when the applicant applies for an Environmental Permit.  It 
should also be noted that Annex V of the IED as quoted outlines a minimum set of 
standards. 
 
8.2. Air Quality  
 
8.2.1. A detailed technical assessment of the air quality modelling will be undertaken 
by NRW once an EPR application has been duly made. We note that we have 
previously provided comments on the suitability and availability of weather data for the 
locality.  
 
8.2.2. Section 6.3.24 refers to the relevant Emission Limit Values (ELVs) for the 
Generating Equipment being set out in Annex V Part 1 of the IED. We advise that it is 
expected that Annex V Part 2 of the IED will apply to this project.  
 
8.3. Energy Efficiency  
 
8.3.1. The proposal is for an open cycle plant, and as a peaking plant we expect 
energy efficient to form a significant part of the environmental permit application to 
ensure operations have accounted for the aforementioned LCP BATc published last 
year.  
 
8.4. Combined Heat and Power (CHP) Readiness  
 
8.4.1. We require all new combustion power plants (that do not include CHP from the 
outset) to be CHP ready to a sufficient degree, dictated by the likely future technically 
viable opportunities. 
 
8.4.2. Information can be downloaded from the EPR installations guidance page on 
our website entitled CHP assessment template etc.  
https://naturalresources.wales/permits-and-permissions/environmental-
permits/guidance-to-help-you-comply-with-your-environmental-permit/?lang=en 
 
8.4.3. There is also further CHP guidance on the gov.uk website: 
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/combined-heat-and-power 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
                                                            M
Maaee’’rr  CCyynnggoorr  yynn  ccrrooeessaaw
wuu  ggoohheebbiiaaeetthh  yynn  yy  G
Gyym
mrraaeegg  nneeuu’’rr  SSaaeessnneegg..  
TThhee  CCoouunncciill  w
weellccoom
meess  ccoorrrreessppoonnddeennccee  iinn  eeiitthheerr  W
Weellsshh  oorr  EEnngglliisshh..  
  

  ooffffiicceerrss@@ppoonnttlllliiw
w--ttiirrccooeedd..oorrgg..uukk        
  hhttttpp::////w
ww
ww
w..ppoonnttlllliiw
w--ttiirrccooeedd..oorrgg..uukk  
 
O
Ouurr  rreeff//EEiinn  ccyyff::  PPV
VN
N//aacctt  
YYoouurr  rreeff//EEiicchh  ccyyff::  **  
D
Daattee//D
Dyyddddiiaadd::  1188  FFeebbrruuaarryy  22001188 
 
 
Abergelli Power, 
 
info@abergellipower.co.uk  
 
 
BY EMAIL ONLY 
 
 
 
Dear Sir 
 
Pontlliw & Tircoed Community Council 
 
I am writing to set out the views of the Community Council on the proposed power station 
development at Abergelli Farm. 
 
Despite the worsening global warming crisis due to ever-increasing greenhouse gas (GHG) 
pollution, the world is paradoxically experiencing a gas boom and a gas rush. There is a general 
assertion from the power industry that “gas is clean”. 
 
The power plant proposed at Abergelli is an Open Cycle Gas Turbine (OCGT) peaking power 
generating station, fuelled by natural gas and capable of providing a rated electrical output of up 
to 299 Megawatts.  The general conclusions from the Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 6: AIR 
QUALITY report is that the pollution caused by the power plant will have negligible effect (Table 
6-64) on the background levels of NO2 or CO in the surrounding areas affected by the plant 
operation.  This result in itself would seem reassuring other than the fact that it masks the more 
global picture of the quantity of pollutant being exhausted through the stack of the power station 
per operational year. 
 
From the operational data provided in Table 6-7 the NOx and CO gases emitted from the stack 
are stated as having a mass of 31.96g/s and 63.91g/s respectively.  From the provided data on 
plant operation the maximum run time per annum is 2250 hours with an average run time of 
1500 hours over a 5 year rolling period. 
 
 
 
CCyynnggoorr  CCyym
muunneedd  PPoonnttlllliiw
w  &
&  TTiirrccooeedd  CCoom
mm
muunniittyy  CCoouunncciill  
  
 
CClleerrcc                                                                                          M
Mrr..  PP..V
V..  N
Neew
wm
maann                                                            CClleerrkk  
BBllw
wcchh  SS..PP..  663399,,  
  
  
        PP..O
O..  BBooxx  663399,,  
PPoonnttaarrdddduullaaiiss,,                                                                                                                                                                                PPoonnttaarrdduullaaiiss,,  
A
Abbeerrttaaw
wee,,                                                                                                                                                                                              SSw
waannsseeaa,,  
SSA
A44  88W
WTT..                                                                                                                                                                                                SSA
A44  88W
WTT..  
  
  
 
 
  
For a run time of 2250 hours per annum this equates to 258 Tonnes of NOx and 517 Tonnes of 
CO being emitted into the atmosphere via 14 Billion m3 of exhaust gases. Over the longer 
period, considering the first 5 years with an average 1500 hours of operation the pollution is 862 
Tonnes of NOx and 1,725 Tonnes of CO emitted via 47 Billion m3 of gases.  These are vast 
quantities of pollutant being distributed into a largely rural environment and are considered 
unacceptable to the Community Council. 
 
What is not clear from the Air Quality report is what measure has been made of the relatively 
low cloud cover that can dominate the area through the Autumn and Winter periods and the 
prolonged periods of torrential rain to which the area is subjected.  Will this effect ground level 
gas pollutants and ground level acidity?  It must be assumed there will be some effect. 
 
There is concern also by the Community Council that although the wind direction is stated as 
largely south westerly with a majority of pollutant being directed toward the north east of the 
power plant site the wind roses provided also show the wind at times coming from the north east 
toward Tircoed.  Pontlliw is adjacent to Tircoed and has in the past been subject to air pollution 
by the nature that we reside in a depression in the land with hills in and out of the village. 
 
On a more general note, the Community Council is aware that the land adjacent to the site of 
the proposed power station is included in the draft Local Development Plan as a site for a 
proposed residential development of approximately 750 houses. The proposed development of 
a power station adjacent to such a significant housing development is inherently inconsistent 
with a residential development. It is difficult to imagine that anyone would choose to move to a 
new house so close to a power station. The construction of a power station in this location may 
therefore thwart part of the strategic objective as set out in the draft Local Development Plan. 
 
I should be grateful if you would acknowledge safe receipt of this letter. 
 
Yours truly, 
 
 
 
Paul Newman 
Clerk to the Council 
 
Cc Planning Department City and County of Swansea 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CRCE/NSIP Consultations 
 
 
Chilton 
 
 
   Didcot 
 
Oxfordshire   
 
 
 
OX11 0RQ 
 
                                                      www.gov.uk/phe 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
            nsipconsultations@phe.gov.uk 
 
Mr Dermot Scanlon 
Peter Brett Associates LLP 
                         Your Ref: EN20015 
3rd Floor, Randolph House 
                         Our Ref : 42969 
4 Charlotte Lane 
Edinburgh   EH2 4QZ 
 
 
 
1st February 2018 
 
 
Dear Mr Scanlon, 
 
Re: Nationally Significant Infrastructure Projects: Public (S42) Consultation 
Abergelli Power Limited: Proposed gas fired power plant at land adjacent to the 
Felindre Gas Compressor Station at Abergelli Farm, Felindre, Swansea, SA5 7NN 
Thank you for contacting Public Health England (PHE) on 5th January 2018 regarding the 
above consultation. 
PHE which includes PHE’s Centre for Radiation, Chemical and Environmental Hazards 
(Wales) is a prescribed consultee under the Planning Act 2008 and secondary legislation 
made under it1 and may become an interested party in the examination process.2 As with 
other prescribed consultees we will input into the public consultation (S42). We have 
provided guidance on the type and extent of information needed to address public health in 
an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA).  
Our records show that we have previously responded to the following enquiries / 
consultations regarding this proposal: 
1) The request for scoping opinion consultation dated 23rd July 2014, a copy of which 
can be found in the relevant Planning Inspectorate scoping opinion located on the 
National Infrastructure Planning Website 
(https://infrastructure.planninginspectorate.gov.uk/). 
2)  Previous S42 consultation dated 14th November 2014 
                                                           
1 Section 42(a) of the Planning Act 2008 and Schedule 1 of the Infrastructure Planning Applications: Prescribed 
Forms and Procedure regulations 2009 as amended by The Infrastructure Planning (Prescribed Consultees and 
Interested Parties etc.) (Amendment) Regulations 2013 
2 Section 102(1) of the Planning Act 2008. The Infrastructure Planning (Interested Parties) regulations 2010(as 
amended) and the Localism Act 2011 (Infrastructure Planning) (Consequential Amendments) Regulations 2012 
 
 
 
 
 
3)  Correspondence with developer regarding amendment to application boundary 
dated 4th March 2015. 
Summary of PHE comments on the latest Public Consultation (S42). 
We are satisfied that the approach to the Environmental Impact Statement is in line with 
current guidance and good practice.  We would point out however, that where electricity 
generation and/or distribution equipment is identified, in this case for example, the 400 kV 
cable from the generating plant to the substation, an assessment of potential EMF 
exposures should be included. This assessment should be undertaken in line with current 
regulatory requirements, guidance and good practice as set out in the following Voluntary 
Codes of Best Practice: 
 
Compliance with ICNIRP guidelines 
https://www.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file
/37447/1256-code-practice-emf-public-exp-guidelines.pdf 
 
Optimum phasing of high voltage power lines 
https://www.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file
/48309/1255-code-practice-optimum-phasing-power-lines.pdf 
 
Indirect effects of exposure 
https://www.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file
/224766/powerlines_vcop_microshocks.pdf 
Regarding the remaining documentation, the consultation has adequately identified, 
considered and risk assessed the potential for the proposed development to affect Public 
Health in line with the guidance provided in advice note 11. 
 
We hope that our comments are useful but should you wish to discuss any issued raised in 
this letter or have any questions relating to our response please do not hesitate to contact 
us. 
 
Yours sincerely 
 
Ed Huckle 
Principal Environmental Public Health Scientist 
Centre for Radiation, Chemical and Environmental Hazards (Wales) 
Public Health England 
 
 
 
Appendix: PHE recommendations regarding the scoping document 
General approach  
The EIA should give consideration to best practice guidance such as the Government’s 
Good Practice Guide for EIA3. It is important that the EIA identifies and assesses the 
potential public health impacts of the activities at, and emissions from, the installation. 
Assessment should consider the development, operational, and decommissioning phases. 
It is not PHE’s role to undertake these assessments on behalf of promoters as this would 
conflict with PHE’s role as an impartial and independent body. 
We note that the information provided states that there will be three associated development 
projects, but that these will be the subject of separate planning consent applications. We 
recommend that the EIA includes consideration of the impacts of associated development 
and that cumulative impacts are fully accounted for. 
Consideration of alternatives (including alternative sites, choice of process, and the phasing 
of construction) is widely regarded as good practice. Ideally, EIA should start at the stage of 
site and process selection, so that the environmental merits of practicable alternatives can 
be properly considered. Where this is undertaken, the main alternatives considered should 
be outlined in the ES4. 
The following text covers a range of issues that PHE would expect to be addressed by the 
promoter. However this list is not exhaustive and the onus is on the promoter to ensure that 
the relevant public health issues are identified and addressed. PHE’s advice and 
recommendations carry no statutory weight and constitute non-binding guidance. 
Receptors 
The ES should clearly identify the development’s location and the location and distance from 
the development of off-site human receptors that may be affected by emissions from, or 
activities at, the development. Off-site human receptors may include people living in 
residential premises; people working in commercial, and industrial premises and people 
using transport infrastructure (such as roads and railways), recreational areas, and publicly-
accessible land. Consideration should also be given to environmental receptors such as the 
surrounding land, watercourses, surface and groundwater, and drinking water supplies such 
as wells, boreholes and water abstraction points. 
 
                                                           
3 Environmental Impact Assessment: A guide to good practice and procedures - A consultation paper; 2006; Department for Communities 
and Local Government. Available from: 
http://www.communities.gov.uk/archived/publications/planningandbuilding/environmentalimpactassessment  
4 DCLG guidance, 1999 http://www.communities.gov.uk/documents/planningandbuilding/pdf/155958.pdf  
 
 
 
 
 
Impacts arising from construction and decommissioning 
Any assessment of impacts arising from emissions due to construction and 
decommissioning should consider potential impacts on all receptors and describe monitoring 
and mitigation during these phases. Construction and decommissioning will be associated 
with vehicle movements and cumulative impacts should be accounted for. 
We would expect the promoter to follow best practice guidance during all phases from 
construction to decommissioning to ensure appropriate measures are in place to mitigate 
any potential impact on health from emissions (point source, fugitive and traffic-related). An 
effective Construction Environmental Management Plan (CEMP) (and Decommissioning 
Environmental Management Plan (DEMP)) will help provide reassurance that activities are 
well managed. The promoter should ensure that there are robust mechanisms in place to 
respond to any complaints of traffic-related pollution, during construction, operation, and 
decommissioning of the facility. 
Emissions to air and water 
Significant impacts are unlikely to arise from installations which employ Best Available 
Techniques (BAT) and which meet regulatory requirements concerning emission limits and 
design parameters. However, PHE has a number of comments regarding emissions in order 
that the EIA provides a comprehensive assessment of potential impacts. 
When considering a baseline (of existing environmental quality) and in the assessment and 
future monitoring of impacts these: 
 
should include appropriate screening assessments and detailed dispersion modelling 
where this is screened as necessary  
 
should encompass all pollutants which may be emitted by the installation in combination 
with all pollutants arising from associated development and transport, ideally these 
should be considered in a single holistic assessment 
 
should consider the construction, operational, and decommissioning phases 
 
should consider the typical operational emissions and emissions from start-up, shut-
down, abnormal operation and accidents when assessing potential impacts and include 
an assessment of worst-case impacts 
 
should fully account for fugitive emissions 
 
should include appropriate estimates of background levels 
 
should identify cumulative and incremental impacts (i.e. assess cumulative impacts from 
multiple sources), including those arising from associated development, other existing 
and proposed development in the local area, and new vehicle movements associated 
with the proposed development; associated transport emissions should include 
consideration of non-road impacts (i.e. rail, sea, and air) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
should include consideration of local authority, Environment Agency / Natural Resources 
Wales, Defra national network, and any other local site-specific sources of monitoring 
data 
 
should compare predicted environmental concentrations to the applicable standard or 
guideline value for the affected medium (such as UK Air Quality Standards and 
Objectives and Environmental Assessment Levels) 
 If no standard or guideline value exists, the predicted exposure to humans should 
be estimated and compared to an appropriate health-based value (a Tolerable 
Daily Intake or equivalent). Further guidance is provided in Annex 1 
 This should consider all applicable routes of exposure e.g. include consideration 
of aspects such as the deposition of chemicals emitted to air and their uptake via 
ingestion 
 
should identify and consider impacts on residential areas and sensitive receptors (such 
as schools, nursing homes and healthcare facilities) in the area(s) which may be affected 
by emissions, this should include consideration of any new receptors arising from future 
development 
Whilst screening of impacts using qualitative methodologies is common practice (e.g. for 
impacts arising from fugitive emissions such as dust), where it is possible to undertake a 
quantitative assessment of impacts then this should be undertaken. 
PHE’s view is that the EIA should appraise and describe the measures that will be used to 
control both point source and fugitive emissions and demonstrate that standards, guideline 
values or health-based values will not be exceeded due to emissions from the installation, as 
described above. This should include consideration of any emitted pollutants for which there 
are no set emission limits. When assessing the potential impact of a proposed installation on 
environmental quality, predicted environmental concentrations should be compared to the 
permitted concentrations in the affected media; this should include both standards for short 
and long-term exposure.  
Additional points specific to emissions to air 
When considering a baseline (of existing air quality) and in the assessment and future 
monitoring of impacts these: 
 
should include consideration of impacts on existing areas of poor air quality e.g. existing 
or proposed local authority Air Quality Management Areas (AQMAs) 
 
should include modelling using appropriate meteorological data (i.e. come from the 
nearest suitable meteorological station and include a range of years and worst case 
conditions) 
 
should include modelling taking into account local topography 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additional points specific to emissions to water 
When considering a baseline (of existing water quality) and in the assessment and future 
monitoring of impacts these: 
 
should include assessment of potential impacts on human health and not focus solely on 
ecological impacts 
 
should identify and consider all routes by which emissions may lead to population 
exposure (e.g. surface watercourses; recreational waters; sewers; geological routes etc.)  
 
should assess the potential off-site effects of emissions to groundwater (e.g. on aquifers 
used for drinking water) and surface water (used for drinking water abstraction) in terms 
of the potential for population exposure 
 
should include consideration of potential impacts on recreational users (e.g. from fishing, 
canoeing etc) alongside assessment of potential exposure via drinking water 
Land quality 
We would expect the promoter to provide details of any hazardous contamination present on 
site (including ground gas) as part of the site condition report. 
Emissions to and from the ground should be considered in terms of the previous history of 
the site and the potential of the site, once operational, to give rise to issues. Public health 
impacts associated with ground contamination and/or the migration of material off-site 
should be assessed5 and the potential impact on nearby receptors and control and mitigation 
measures should be outlined.  
Relevant areas outlined in the Government’s Good Practice Guide for EIA include: 
 
effects associated with ground contamination that may already exist 
 
effects associated with the potential for polluting substances that are used (during 
construction / operation) to cause new ground contamination issues on a site, for 
example introducing / changing the source of contamination  
 
impacts associated with re-use of soils and waste soils, for example, re-use of site-
sourced materials on-site or offsite, disposal of site-sourced materials offsite, importation 
of materials to the site, etc. 
Waste 
The EIA should demonstrate compliance with the waste hierarchy (e.g. with respect to re-
use, recycling or recovery and disposal). 
                                                           
5 Following the approach outlined in the section above dealing with emissions to air and water i.e. comparing predicted environmental 
concentrations to the applicable standard or guideline value for the affected medium  (such as Soil Guideline Values) 
 
 
 
 
 
For wastes arising from the installation the EIA should consider: 
 
the implications and wider environmental and public health impacts of different waste 
disposal options  
 
disposal route(s) and transport method(s) and how potential impacts on public health will 
be mitigated 
Other aspects 
Within the EIA PHE would expect to see information about how the promoter would respond 
to accidents with potential off-site emissions e.g. flooding or fires, spills, leaks or releases 
off-site. Assessment of accidents should: identify all potential hazards in relation to 
construction, operation and decommissioning; include an assessment of the risks posed; 
and identify risk management measures and contingency actions that will be employed in 
the event of an accident in order to mitigate off-site effects. 
The EIA should include consideration of the COMAH Regulations (Control of Major Accident 
Hazards) and the Major Accident Off-Site Emergency Plan (Management of Waste from 
Extractive Industries) (England and Wales) Regulations 2009: both in terms of their 
applicability to the installation itself, and the installation’s potential to impact on, or be 
impacted by, any nearby installations themselves subject to the these Regulations. 
There is evidence that, in some cases, perception of risk may have a greater impact on 
health than the hazard itself. A 2009 report6, jointly published by Liverpool John Moores 
University and the HPA, examined health risk perception and environmental problems using 
a number of case studies. As a point to consider, the report suggested: “Estimation of 
community anxiety and stress should be included as part of every risk or impact assessment 
of proposed plans that involve a potential environmental hazard. This is true even when the 
physical health risks may be negligible.” PHE supports the inclusion of this information within 
EIAs as good practice. 
Electromagnetic fields (EMF)  
There is a potential health impact associated with the electric and magnetic fields around 
substations and the connecting cables or lines. The following information provides a 
framework for considering the potential health impact. 
In March 2004, the National Radiological Protection Board, NRPB (now part of PHE), 
published advice on limiting public exposure to electromagnetic fields. The advice was 
based on an extensive review of the science and a public consultation on its website, and 
recommended the adoption in the UK of the EMF exposure guidelines published by the 
International Commission on Non-ionizing Radiation Protection (ICNIRP):- 
http://webarchive.nationalarchives.gov.uk/20140629102627/http://www.hpa.org.uk/Publicatio
ns/Radiation/NPRBArchive/DocumentsOfTheNRPB/Absd1502/ 
                                                           
6 Available from: http://www.cph.org.uk/showPublication.aspx?pubid=538  
 
 
 
 
 
The ICNIRP guidelines are based on the avoidance of known adverse effects of exposure to 
electromagnetic fields (EMF) at frequencies up to 300 GHz (gigahertz), which includes static 
magnetic fields and 50 Hz electric and magnetic fields associated with electricity 
transmission.  
PHE notes the current Government policy is that the ICNIRP guidelines are implemented in 
line with the terms of the EU Council Recommendation on limiting exposure of the general 
public (1999/519/EC): 
http://webarchive.nationalarchives.gov.uk/+/www.dh.gov.uk/en/Publichealth/Healthprotection
/DH_4089500 
For static magnetic fields, the latest ICNIRP guidelines (2009) recommend that acute 
exposure of the general public should not exceed 400 mT (millitesla), for any part of the 
body, although the previously recommended value of 40 mT is the value used in the Council 
Recommendation.  However, because of potential indirect adverse effects, ICNIRP 
recognises that practical policies need to be implemented to prevent inadvertent harmful 
exposure of people with implanted electronic medical devices and implants containing 
ferromagnetic materials, and injuries due to flying ferromagnetic objects, and these 
considerations can lead to much lower restrictions, such as 0.5 mT as advised by the 
International Electrotechnical Commission.  
At 50 Hz, the known direct effects include those of induced currents in the body on the 
central nervous system (CNS) and indirect effects include the risk of painful spark discharge 
on contact with metal objects exposed to the field. The ICNIRP guidelines give reference 
levels for public exposure to 50 Hz electric and magnetic fields, and these are respectively 5 
kV m−1 (kilovolts per metre) and 100 μT (microtesla). If people are not exposed to field 
strengths above these levels, direct effects on the CNS should be avoided and indirect 
effects such as the risk of painful spark discharge will be small. The reference levels are not 
in themselves limits but provide guidance for assessing compliance with the basic 
restrictions and reducing the risk of indirect effects. Further clarification on advice on 
exposure guidelines for 50 Hz electric and magnetic fields is provided in the following note 
on the HPA website: 
http://webarchive.nationalarchives.gov.uk/20140714084352/http://www.hpa.org.uk/Topics/R
adiation/UnderstandingRadiation/InformationSheets/info_IcnirpExpGuidelines/ 
The Department of Energy and Climate Change has also published voluntary code of 
practices which set out key principles for complying with the ICNIRP guidelines for the 
industry. 
https://www.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/37447/1256-
code-practice-emf-public-exp-guidelines.pdf 
https://www.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/48309/1255-
code-practice-optimum-phasing-power-lines.pdf 
 
 
 
 
 
There is concern about the possible effects of long-term exposure to electromagnetic fields, 
including possible carcinogenic effects at levels much lower than those given in the ICNIRP 
guidelines. In the NRPB advice issued in 2004, it was concluded that the studies that 
suggest health effects, including those concerning childhood leukaemia, could not be used 
to derive quantitative guidance on restricting exposure. However, the results of these studies 
represented uncertainty in the underlying evidence base, and taken together with people’s 
concerns, provided a basis for providing an additional recommendation for Government to 
consider the need for further precautionary measures, particularly with respect to the 
exposure of children to power frequency magnetic fields.   
The Stakeholder Advisory Group on ELF EMFs (SAGE) was then set up to take this 
recommendation forward, explore the implications for a precautionary approach to extremely 
low frequency electric and magnetic fields (ELF EMFs), and to make practical 
recommendations to Government. In the First Interim Assessment of the Group, 
consideration was given to mitigation options such as the 'corridor option' near power lines, 
and optimal phasing to reduce electric and magnetic fields. A Second Interim Assessment 
addresses electricity distribution systems up to 66 kV. The SAGE reports can be found at the 
following link: 
http://sagedialogue.org.uk/ (go to “Document Index” and Scroll to SAGE/Formal reports with 
recommendations) 
The Agency has given advice to Health Ministers on the First Interim Assessment of SAGE 
regarding precautionary approaches to ELF EMFs and specifically regarding power lines and 
property, wiring and electrical equipment in homes: 
http://webarchive.nationalarchives.gov.uk/20140629102627/http://www.hpa.org.uk/Publicatio
ns/Radiation/HPAResponseStatementsOnRadiationTopics/rpdadvice_sage/ 
The evidence to date suggests that in general there are no adverse effects on the health of 
the population of the UK caused by exposure to ELF EMFs below the guideline levels. The 
scientific evidence, as reviewed by PHE, supports the view that precautionary measures 
should address solely the possible association with childhood leukaemia and not other more 
speculative health effects. The measures should be proportionate in that overall benefits 
outweigh the fiscal and social costs, have a convincing evidence base to show that they will 
be successful in reducing exposure, and be effective in providing reassurance to the public.  
The Government response to the First SAGE Interim Assessment is given in the written 
Ministerial Statement by Gillian Merron, then Minister of State, Department of Health, 
published on 16th October 2009: 
http://www.publications.parliament.uk/pa/cm200809/cmhansrd/cm091016/wmstext/91016m0
001.htm 
http://webarchive.nationalarchives.gov.uk/20130107105354/http://www.dh.gov.uk/en/Publica
tionsandstatistics/Publications/PublicationsPolicyAndGuidance/DH_107124 
 
 
 
 
 
HPA and Government responses to the Second Interim Assessment of SAGE are available 
at the following links: 
http://webarchive.nationalarchives.gov.uk/20140629102627/http://www.hpa.org.uk/Publicatio
ns/Radiation/HPAResponseStatementsOnRadiationTopics/rpdadvice_sage2/ 
http://www.dh.gov.uk/en/Publicationsandstatistics/Publications/PublicationsPolicyAndGuidan
ce/DH_130703 
The above information provides a framework for considering the health impact associated 
with the proposed development, including the direct and indirect effects of the electric and 
magnetic fields as indicated above.  
Liaison with other stakeholders, comments should be sought from: 
 
the local authority for matters relating to noise, odour, vermin and dust nuisance 
 
the local authority regarding any site investigation and subsequent construction (and 
remediation) proposals to ensure that the site could not be determined as ‘contaminated 
land’ under Part 2A of the Environmental Protection Act 
 
the local authority regarding any impacts on existing or proposed Air Quality 
Management Areas 
 
the Food Standards Agency / Food Standards Agency (Wales) for matters relating to the 
impact on human health of pollutants deposited on land used for growing food/ crops 
 
the Environment Agency / Natural Resources Wales for matters relating to flood risk and 
releases with the potential to impact on surface and groundwaters 
 
the Environment Agency / Natural Resources Wales for matters relating to waste 
characterisation and acceptance 
 
the Clinical Commissioning Groups, NHS commissioning  Boards, Health Boards (in 
Wales)  and Local Planning Authority for matters relating to wider public health 
Environmental Permitting  
Amongst other permits and consents, the development will require an environmental permit 
from the Environment Agency / Natural Resources Wales to operate (under the 
Environmental Permitting (England and Wales) Regulations 2010). Therefore the installation 
will need to comply with the requirements of best available techniques (BAT). PHE is a 
consultee for bespoke environmental permit applications and will respond separately to any 
such consultation. 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex 1 
Human health risk assessment (chemical pollutants) 
The points below are cross-cutting and should be considered when undertaking a human 
health risk assessment: 
 
The promoter should consider including Chemical Abstract Service (CAS) numbers 
alongside chemical names, where referenced in the ES 
 
Where available, the most recent United Kingdom standards for the appropriate 
media (e.g. air, water, and/or soil) and health-based guideline values should be used 
when quantifying the risk to human health from chemical pollutants. Where UK 
standards or guideline values are not available, those recommended by the 
European Union or World Health Organisation can be used  
 
When assessing the human health risk of a chemical emitted from a facility or 
operation, the background exposure to the chemical from other sources should be 
taken into account 
 
When quantitatively assessing the health risk of genotoxic and carcinogenic chemical 
pollutants PHE does not favour the use of mathematical models to extrapolate from 
high dose levels used in animal carcinogenicity studies to well below the observed 
region of a dose-response relationship.  When only animal data are available, we 
recommend that the ‘Margin of Exposure’ (MOE) approach7 is used  
 
 
 
                                                           
7  Benford D et al. 2010. Application of the margin of exposure approach to substances in food that are genotoxic and carcinogenic.  Food 
Chem Toxicol 48 Suppl 1: S2-24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
joe.walsh@royalmail.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Neath Police Station 
Gnoll Park Road 
Neath 
SA11 3BW 
 
Tel 07815 953 028 
Michael.Harvey2@south-wales.pnn.police.uk 
 
16th February 2018 
 
Peter Brett Associates LLP 
Edinburgh 
 
Dear Mr Scanlon 
 
Re Abergelli Power Station – Gas Fired Power Station. 
 
I make this response on behalf of Mr Alun Michael, the Police and Crime Commissioner for 
the South Wales Police Force in respect of the above proposed development. 
 
I would have the following observations to make, based on the fact that the development will 
have staff working on site 24 hours every day:- 
 
(i). Perimeter security. 
 
The site should be protected by a security fence that is at least 2.4m high, and manufactured 
of weld mesh or expanded metal. It should meet Secured by Design standards and 
specifications.  
 
(ii). CCTV. 
 
The whole of the site, especially the perimeter and main entrances must be protected by a 
monitored CCTV system. It should be capable of producing quality evidential imagery and 
also be capable of detecting movement around the site whilst providing recognition of 
persons.  
 
The Data Protection Act must be complied with, and signs sited in prominent positions 
informing persons that CCTV is in operation on site.  
 
(iii). Lighting. 
 
Adequate lighting should be installed throughout the site to cover vehicle and pedestrian  
 
 
areas during the hours of darkness. A scheme of work and lux plan should be provided and 
the lighting must complement and enhance any CCTV cameras operating on site. 
 
(iv). Landscaping. 
 
Any trees should have no foliage or branches below 2 metres from the ground, and must not 
interfere with lighting or CCTV. In addition, trees must not be located adjacent to buildings or 
any perimeter security. 
 
(v). Building 
 
Access to the roof of any buildings must be prevented or made difficult. Any features that 
assist climbing must be designed out. Access points to the roofs must be gated, the gates 
having access control fitted to prevent unlawful persons accessing. 
 
(vi). Intruder alarm. 
 
All buildings that are not occupied 24 hours per day or contain critical equipment or items of 
significant value should be protected by a monitored silent intruder alarm system. The system 
installed should meet the relevant British Standards for alarm installations. 
 
(vii). Access control 
 
Both vehicle and pedestrian access onto site must be controlled. Suitable access control 
facilities must be put in place for both vehicles and pedestrians that meet Secured by Design 
standards and specifications. 
 
Access control should also be considered to protect areas where critical equipment or items 
of significant value are located on site. 
 
(viii). Door security. 
 
External entrance doors, and doors protecting areas that contain critical equipment or other 
items of significant value, should meet the security standard LPS1175 SR2 or the equivalent 
standard. 
 
Further more detailed information can be found on the Secured by Design website 
www.securedbydesign.com . 
 
Yours Sincerely 
 
 
Mike Harvey 
 
Designing out Crime Officer 
 
Mae Heddlu De Cymru yn croesawu derbyn gohebiaeth yn Gymraeg a Saesneg. Byddwn yn ateb 
gohebiaeth a dderbynnir yn Gymraeg yn Gymraeg ac ni fydd gohebu yn Gymraeg yn arwain at oedi.  
 
South Wales Police welcome’s receiving correspondence in Welsh and English. Any correspondence 
received in Welsh will be answered in Welsh and corresponding in Welsh will not lead to a delay in 
responding. 
 
Canal & River Trust, Fradley Junction, Alrewas, Burton-upon-Trent, Staffordshire, DE13 7DN 
T 0303 040 4040   E planning@canalrivertrust.org.uk W www.canalrivertrust.org.uk 
 
Patron: HRH The Prince of Wales 
CRT: A charitable company limited by guarantee registered in England & Wales. Company number 7807276  
Registered charity number 1146792  
Registered address First Floor North, Station House, 500 Elder Gate, Milton Keynes, MK9 1BB 
 
 
08 January 2018 
 
Peter Brett Associates  
Caversham Bridge 
Waterman Place 
Reading 
Berkshire 
RG1 8DN 
 
(abergellipower@peterbrett.com) 
 
Dear Mr Scanlon, 
 
NSIP: Abergelli Power Station, land adjacent to Felindre Gas Compressor Station, 
Abergelli Farm  
 
Waterway: Swansea 
 
Thank you for your consultation.  
 
The Canal & River Trust (the Trust) is the guardian of 2000 miles of historic waterways 
across England and Wales. We are among the largest charities in the UK. Our vision is that 
“living waterways transform places and enrich lives”. We are a prescribed consultee in the 
Nationally Significant Infrastructure Project (NSIP) process. 
 
The Trust has reviewed your proposals, and on the basis that they appear unlikely to have 
any impact at all on our waterway we have no comment to make at this time. However, if 
because of consultation your proposals become significantly altered, we ask that you re-
consult us in order that we can re-consider this position.  
 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
Jane Hennell MRTPI 
Area Planner South & South Wales 
 
Jane.hennell@canalrivertrust.org.uk  
 
07747 8977933 
From:
Kumar, Krishnaraj
To:
Abergellipower
Subject:
RE: Land adjacent to the Felindre Gas Compressor Station at Abergelli Farm, Felindre, Swansea, SA5 7NN
Date:
02 February 2018 06:13:01
Attachments:
image001.png
19-01-2018_14-14-45_1.pdf
19-01-2018_14-14-45.pdf
Abergelli Farm.pdf
Special Requirements.pdf
Please note - We have created an electronic response for you in reply to your postal enquiry. For
ALL future plant enquiry requests please email to osm.enquiries@atkinsglobal.com
Please accept this email as confirmation that Vodafone: Fixed does have apparatus within the
vicinity of your proposed works.
Please see attached network information.
Note: Only affected parts are printed and our network is not present in the remaining areas of your proposed
works.
For all future requests please include a 12-digit grid reference and location details within the body
of the actual email.
IMPORTANT - PLEASE READ = Your Next Step?:-
Where apparatus is affected and requires diversion, please send all the scheme related proposals that affects the Vodafone
Network to c3requests@vodafone.com with a request for a 'C3 Budget Estimate'. Please ensure you include a plan showing
proposed works. (A location plan is insufficient for Vodafone to provide a costing). These estimates will be provided by Vodafone
directly, normally within 20 working days from receipt of your request. Please include proof of this C2 response when requesting
a C3 (using the ‘forward’ option). Diversionary works may be necessary if the existing line of the highway/railway or its levels are
altered.
Kind regards
Plant Enquiries Team
T: +44 (0)1454 662881
E: osm.enquiries@atkinsglobal.com
ATKINS working on behalf of Vodafone: Fixed 
This response is made only in respect to electronic communications apparatus forming part of the Vodafone Limited
electronic communications network formerly being part of the electronic communications networks of Cable &
Wireless UK, Energis Communications Limited, Thus Group Holdings Plc and Your Communications Limited.
PLEASE NOTE:
The information given is indicative only. No warranty is made as to its accuracy. This information must not be solely relied upon
in the event of excavation or other works carried out in the vicinity of Vodafone plant. No liability of any kind whatsoever is
accepted by Vodafone, its servants, or agents, for any error or omission in respect of information contained on this information.
The actual position of underground services must be verified and established on site before any mechanical plant is used.
Authorities and contractors will be held liable for the full cost of repairs to Vodafone's apparatus and all claims made against
them by Third parties as a result of any interference or damage.
P Please consider the environment before printing this e-mail
From: National Plant Enquiry's 
Sent: 01 February 2018 15:13
To: National Plant Enquiry's <OSM.enquiries@atkinsglobal.com>
Subject: Land adjacent to the Felindre Gas Compressor Station at Abergelli Farm, Felindre,
Swansea, SA5 7NN
Name of
Requester:
Not given
Name of
Company:
Peter Brett OBO Abergellie Power
Requester
Reference:
Not given
Email Address:
Abergellipower@peterbrett.com
Site Location
Address:
Land adjacent to the Felindre Gas Compressor Station at Abergelli Farm,
Felindre, Swansea, SA5 7NN
Telephone
Number:
01312977010
Nimo Hussein
Utility Coordinator, Utility Solutions
ATKINS
The Hub, 500 Park Avenue, Aztec West, Almondsbury, Bristol, BS32 4RZ
TEL: +44 (0)1454 662881 |
This response is made only in respect to electronic communications apparatus forming part of the Vodafone Limited electronic
communications network formerly being part of the electronic communications networks of Cable & Wireless UK, Energis
Communications Limited, Thus Group Holdings Plc and Your Communications Limited.
ATKINS working on behalf of Vodafone: Fixed 
This email and any attached files are confidential and copyright protected. If you are not the addressee, any dissemination of this
communication is strictly prohibited. Unless otherwise expressly agreed in writing, nothing stated in this communication shall be
legally binding. The ultimate parent company of the Atkins Group is SNC-Lavalin Group Inc. Registered in Québec, Canada No.
059041-0. Registered Office 455 boul. René-Lévesque Ouest, Montréal, Québec, Canada, H2Z 1Z3. A list of Atkins Group companies
registered in the United Kingdom and locations around the world can be found at http://www.atkinsglobal.com/site-services/group-
company-registration-details
Consider the environment. Please don't print this e-mail unless you really need to.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
This message has been scanned for viruses by Websense
_
 
 
  
 
  
 
Sarn Mynach  
CYFFORDD 
LLANDUDNO / 
LLANDUDNO 
JUNCTION  
Conwy  
LL31 9RZ  
 
GovernmentBusinessE&E@wales.gsi.gov.uk  
www.cymru/gov.uk/ 
www.wales.gov.uk    
 
 
Rydym yn croesawu derbyn gohebiaeth yn Gymraeg.  Byddwn yn ateb gohebiaeth a dderbynnir yn Gymraeg yn Gymraeg ac ni fydd 
gohebu yn Gymraeg yn arwain at oedi.  
 
We welcome receiving correspondence in Welsh.  Any correspondence received in Welsh will be answered in Welsh and 
corresponding in Welsh will not lead to a delay in responding. 
 
 
 
 
BY EMAIL – info@abergellipower.co.uk 
 
Dermot Scanlon 
Peter Brett Associates LLP 
For and on behalf of Abergelli Power Limted 
 
15 February 2018 
 
Dear Mr Scanlon 
 
Abergelli Power Limited (APL) – Proposed gas fired power plant at land adjacent to 
the Felindre Gas Compressor Station and Abergelli Farm, Felindre, Swansea, SA5 
7NN 
 
Further to your letter of 5 January 2018, inviting comments, as part of the statutory 
consultation, on the Abergelli Power Ltd (APL) proposals, please find our response 
below. 
 
Decarbonisation & Energy 
  
The Welsh Government has responsibility for environmental pollution and emissions 
reduction policy. The Environment Act Wales sets a long term target of reducing our 
emissions in Wales by 80% by 2050 and requires us to set interim targets and carbon 
budgets. The UK Committee on Climate Change [CCC] the Welsh Government’s 
statutory advisors, have provided their advice on the setting of the targets. Within the 
CCC’s recommended pathway, the level of electricity generation from gas plants must 
reduce substantially in Wales before 2030 and 2050. The impact additional gas capacity 
in Wales would have on the ability to meet our statutory emissions reduction targets 
should be considered within this application. 
   
The CCC’s Climate Change Risk Assessment [CCRA] report summary for Wales 
provides a review of risks which may impact Wales as a result of climate change.  A 
number of these risks have the potential to impact heavily on energy generation and 
infrastructure, as well as business productivity.  APL should review the CCRA carefully in 
the development of their DCO application, consider the implications for the development 
and demonstrate how their project will be resilient in a changing climate. 
  
 
Transport Network Management Division 
 
As Junction 46 is affected with heavy traffic build-up due to an increase of vehicles during 
rush hour and the Hospital shift change,  it would be prudent to suggest to the applicant 
that they should seek to programme their deliveries in their Construction Traffic 
Management Plan, to arrive outside the peak hours on the motorway. 
 
Historic Environment Service (Cadw) 
 
Cadw agrees with the conclusions of the PEIR on the impact of the proposal to the 
historic assets identified within the study area. 
 
Land Nature and Forestry Division - Nature Policy & Land Use 
 
It is noted that the environmental impact assessment is ongoing and comments are 
unable to be made on assessments not yet undertaken or publicised. 
 
The undergrounding of the power-lines is welcome in the long term, however the impact 
of the installation process on wildlife should be fully assessed and compensatory 
provision made where required. 
 
Reference should be made to all protected species issues raised when the nearby gas 
pipeline was laid and Gas Compressor Station built.  The developers should ensure that 
the current proposal has no negative effect in combination with those previous works, 
even when either scheme, viewed in isolation, had or has no significant effect. 
 
If the scheme yields opportunities to enhance biodiversity, the developer should take 
every viable opportunity to progress these, thus contributing to enhancements to 
biodiversity under Section 6 of the Environment (Wales) Act 2016, both in their own right 
and on behalf of the various permitting and infrastructure authorities involved, including 
Welsh Government.    
 
Planning Policy Branch 
 
Please note as a consequence of the Wales Act 2017 (Commencement No. 4) 
Regulations 2017, sections 39 to 42 of the Wales Act 2017 will be fully commenced on 1 
April 2019.  The implication of this is the application for a non-wind onshore generating 
station in Wales under section 37 of the Planning Act 2008 with a capacity of below 
350MW and which has yet to be accepted by the Secretary of State before this date 
cannot proceed as a Nationally Significant Infrastructure Project.  Any application made 
on or after 1 April 2019 will fall to be determined under Town and Country Planning Act 
1990, for which there are different pre-application procedures and submission 
requirements.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Marine Planning Policy 
 
We note this development is near to but not in the Welsh National Marine Plan 
area.  Under the Marine and Coastal Access Act 2009 any development with potential to 
affect the Welsh National Marine Plan area has to take account of the marine plan.  The 
Welsh National Marine Plan is currently under development and we expect it to be 
adopted in 2018/19, so developers may wish to consider the draft plan in developing their 
proposals.  The draft plan is currently undergoing public consultation and can be viewed 
via the following webpage: https://consultations.gov.wales/consultations/draft-welsh-
national-marine-plan 
 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
 
Prys Davies 
Deputy Director – Head of Decarbonisation and Energy 
 
 
From:
Richard Williams1
To:
Abergelli Power
Cc:
Jeff Smale; Paul J Morgan
Subject:
Abergelli Power Limited-Proposed Gas fired plant, Felindre-Without Prejudice
Date:
16 February 2018 12:39:20
Dear Sir,
                 We take this opportunity to acknowledge your letter of introduction dated 2nd
February 2018,  receipt of your consultation pack and letters of 5th January and additional letter
of clarification dated 6th February 2018.
 
We have considered this matter and are of the opinion that sufficient information referenced to
this proposal, in particular any specific gas connections, is not available to facilitate a detailed
response.
 
Accordingly we are requesting that we arrange as soon as we are able a joint site meeting with
you to discuss in further detail. Once this is held we should then be in a position to let you have
our views and any relevant comments.
 
I trust you appreciate our position here and look forward to hearing from you with some
suggested dates.
 
Regards,
Richard.
 
Richard Williams, MRICS.
Estate Surveyor.
07891 829579.
This email transmission and any attachments to it are strictly confidential and are intended
solely for the person or organisation to whom it is addressed. Its contents may contain
legal professional or other privileged information. If you are not the intended recipient,
please notify us immediately and delete it, without retaining it, copying it, disclosing its
contents to anyone or acting upon it. You must ensure that you have appropriate virus
protection before you open or detach any documents from this transmission. We accept no
responsibility for viruses. We may monitor replies to emails for operational or lawful
business reasons. The views or opinions expressed in this email are the author's own and
may not, unless expressly stated to the contrary, reflect the views or opinions of Wales &
West Utilities Limited, its affiliates or subsidiaries. Unless expressly stated to the contrary,
neither Wales & West Utilities Limited, its affiliates or subsidiaries, their respective
directors, officers or employees make any representation about, or accept any liability for,
the accuracy or completeness of such views or opinions. Wales & West Utilities Limited
Registered office: Wales & West House, Spooner Close, Celtic Springs, Coedkernew,
NEWPORT NP10 8FZ Registered in England and Wales No 5046791
 
 
 
  
Appendix 11.B: Phase 2 S42 responses verbatim 
11.B II  S42(b) responses 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Appendix 11.B: Phase 2 S42 responses verbatim 
11.B III  S42(d) responses 
 
 
Page 1 of 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dermot Scanlon 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Our ref:     Abergelli Pipeline 
  
Peter Brett Associates  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Your ref:  
3rd Floor 
Randolph House 
4 Charlotte Lane 
Edinburgh 
EH2 4QZ 
 
 
 
1 February 2018 
 
Dear Dermot, 
 
Re: Abergelli Power Limited:   Proposed gas fired power plant at land adjacent to the 
Felindre Gas Compressor Station at Abergelli Farm, Felindre, Swansea, SA5 7NN 
 
Statutory Consultation under Section 42 of the Planning Act 2008 
 
I write in relation to your letter of 05 January 2018 to Abergelli Solar Limited (ASL). ASL is part of 
the Foresight Solar EIS 4b fund and Foresight act as the Asset Manager of the solar farm. I 
respond accordingly. 
 
The solar farm of ASL is divided in to two main solar fields that each have underground High 
Voltage electricity and communication cables connecting to a Distribution Network Operator 
electricity substation that then exports the electricity to the national grid via a separate HV 
electricity cable. The gas pipeline and Gas Connection Route Corridor of the proposed gas fired 
power plant has the potential to adversely affect both the solar farm assets and the Distribution 
Network Operator assets and acceptable protection, mitigation and restoration measures will be 
necessary to ensure no damage or harm is done to those assets during construction of the 
pipeline and that there are no additional risks to those assets when the pipeline is in operation.  
 
The Aecom Figure 5.2 plan (Gas Connection Options) shows the temporary /construction land-
take area directly adjacent to the eastern solar field and the indicative pipeline route will cross the 
route of the underground cables connecting this solar field to the DNO substation, which are 
located initially alongside the farm track to the solar field and then veer north along farmland.  
 
The Aecom Figure 5.1 plan (Access Route Options) also shows option 1 as utilizing the private 
road that provides access to the solar farm and the DNO substation. 
 
Of fundamental concern would be any risks associated with installing and maintaining the gas 
pipeline in close proximity of the solar farm and associated infrastructure (including the DNO 
substation and export cabling) - which is an operational electrical facility, what safety measures 
will be in place, whether insurance companies will cover the risks and any extra costs and burdens 
that might be imposed on ASL as a result of the installation and operation of the gas pipeline. 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 2 of 2 
 
 
There will be a need for insurance cover and indemnity agreements to ensure the protection of 
the solar assets and we would expect APL to bear ASL’s reasonable costs associated with 
researching, entering into and completing such agreements and meeting any necessary 
requirements (such as additional health and safety measures) and other costs (such as, 
potentially, increased insurance premiums). We would not know the full extent of these 
requirements and additional costs until insurance providers have undertaken their own 
assessments. 
 
Construction Impacts 
 
The solar farm (and I believe also the DNO) needs to have continuous 24-hour access to this 
private road and the farm track to the solar fields, and this includes for HGV’s carrying heavy 
loads that may occasionally be required. The track and road therefore need to be protected from 
damage and any damage to the road and track will need to be made good to an acceptable 
standard. 
 
Particular care will also be required when excavating around the track, both to ensure that the 
solar farm cables are effectively protected (both during and after construction) and to protect 
access to the solar farm.  
 
The field boundaries of the solar farm also comprise hedgerow planting that is a planning 
requirement for the solar farm and these landscape features will need to be protected from 
damage, and if damage does occur to be replaced to British Standards at APL’s cost. In addition 
to this, any new landscape planting required as a result of the proposed works needs to ensure 
that there is no shadowing impact on the panels. There should also be no shadowing caused by 
large items of equipment, materials or machinery associated with the construction project or the 
development itself. 
 
Drainage will also need to be considered to ensure that stockpiling, landform compaction and 
modifications and drainage of hardstandings do not drain towards the solar fields and that 
drainage ditches are properly maintained.   
 
Dust suppression and waste disposal measures in working and storage areas and for trucks 
carrying loose material may be necessary to ensure that windblown dust, soil, packaging and 
detritus are not blown on to on the solar fields and panels as this will affect the performance of 
the panels. 
 
We will wish to attend the event APL is holding this February to gain a better understanding of 
how the proposed work will affect the solar farm and the health and safety measures that will be 
put in place. 
 
I have attached the As-built plans for the solar farm identifying the location of the HV and telecoms 
cables of concern. We will endeavor to assist further should you require more details and look 
forward to working with you in relation to this matter. 
 
Yours faithfully, 
 
Mr. James Jenkison  
Principal Planner 
From:
Llettyr Morfil Farm
To:
Abergelli Power; Chris McKerrow
Subject:
Fwd: Abergelli Power Ltd Gas Fired Power Station
Date:
17 February 2018 10:49:51
Good Morning, 
We write in regards to the consultation process.
 
We wish to express some of our concerns at this initial point and advise that we are
opposed to the intended plans. 
Health and Human amenity : We made a conscious life decision to raise our family and our
animals with minimal pollution / free range and GM free with taking into consideration air
pollution. Whilst the 'effects' stated in the current report  state the site would have a
'negligible' effect, it would have an effect and at the cost of local residents and the future
generation which is a serious cause for concern. Air pollution is the second biggest public
health threat in the UK.
THe report produced does not state the effect on human amenity? Such as finances,
happiness, visual amenity, greenhouse gas, climate control?
Environment : The area has an array of wildlife, which can be seen regularly. We
ourselves have seen, frogs, toads, slow worms, newts, an abundance of wild birds, bats,
badger, foxes. The report states 140 metres of hedge row will be removed along with 2
ponds? I feel this would have a damaging effect on the wild life that resides here, as local
farmers we take our responsibility to the environment and wildlife seriously, cutting our
hedges at a specific time. Assessing the fields and tree's for habitats prior to any work
being carried out. 
Local development : This should not be at the expense of existing residents by
retrospectively damaging our carefully planned long term financial positions. We feel that
the construction and running of the station would have a very damaging impact on local
house prices, tourism and the future of Felindre being a desirable place to live. 
The local area has already been massively impacted by renewable energy, there are
currently a number of Solar farms in the area, also another that has been approved next to
our home which we note is not listed on your future developments plan? A 4000 acre Wind
farm is currently in construction to which has already had a massive impact on locals with
poor traffic management, road closures and animal grazing just being a few things
effected. 
There has also been 2 articles released this week, one for a proposed rail station and
another for a 2000 populated village in the area please comment of potential future plans
for the area to which the station would effect. 
Whilst some plans maybe of a more positive nature there is major concern for our rural
village and rural living. It seems to be common knowledge that once one industrial
infrastructure is built many others follow and this has been the case here in Felindre,
therefore when will this stop?
Fire risk : Fire hazards are abundant, water, gas, electricity all in such close proximity to
each other and local residents? Lightening posses a real threat, I cannot locate comment in
the report regards to the fire risk the site proposes to the area which is also surrounded by
grassland?
Emissions : The idea of the gas station is obviously that it will be cleaner than current
coal? Yet a bit of re-search clearly indicates that a small leak of just 3% leaked from the
infrastructure into the atmosphere then a gas plant would be come a bigger source of
greenhouse gases than a coal one. Leaks are possible in venting, lose rivets, etc. Has this
been  considered? 
Traffic flow : The access road has now been moved, which is a real concern. The traffic
flow especially at certain times of the day is somewhat busy and the  junction for the M4
currently sees daily queues, over hanging trees will also cause an issue for high loads, the
width of llangelfeach road for 2 lorry's passing would not be possible, and the road see
many cyclists, pedestrians and horse Back riders to which increased larges vehicles pose a
real threat to all.
Noise Pollution : The noise pollution from construction and the running of the plant I don't
feel has been fully assessed as yet, whilst we currently have a noise monitor at our
property we look forward to being provided with the results and what the increase in noise
will be. Whilst we note comments that the plant will not be running day in day out, the
running noise will impact  us. Currently the noise is predominantly from wildlife and farm
animals  which was the exception, the noise from a gas planted being constructed and 
running was never in our plans or thoughts when purchasing our home and making our
lifestyle decisions to which we have paid a premium for. 
. 
I would also like to bring to your attention the following articles which are available online
Website Carbonbrief.org article titled Uk government slashes outlook for new gas power
plants.
Website newscientisit article Uk dash for gas fired electricity is riddled with risk.
(19.09.2015)
Website Consultancy.uk article gas fired power plants risk becoming strandad assests
02/08/2017
We look forward to your comments on the above but with the hope that the standard
response of 'the effects being negligable' will not be provided, as this term has somewhat
been over used and is not a reflection on the effects the proposed plans will have on us, our
home and our growing family. 
Kind regards
Mr and Mrs Thomas 
Llettyr Morfil Farm
Felindre
From:
Rhona Mitchell
To:
"Rhona Mitchell"
Subject:
FW: Abergelli Power Project
Date:
02 March 2018 10:53:00
-----Original Message-----
From: Abergelli Power [mailto:info@abergellipower.co.uk]
Sent: 20 February 2018 13:01
To: Rhona Mitchell <rmitchell@peterbrett.com>
Cc: Jonathan Sebbage <jsebbage@peterbrett.com>
Subject: FW: Abergelli Power Project
Hi Rhona
Please see below. I thought this was an s47 response but Kirstin advises me it is an s42 response so am sending
it on to you. I don't think you have seen it before but apologies if you have. I will log our end too.
I have also received an additional exhibition form and two leaflets via the post today so will add them to the
appropriate dropbox folders.
Let me know if you want me to do anything differently?  Shall I just drop you an e-mail when I get any new
forms in so you know they have been added to the dropbox or are you looking at these later on down the line?
Thanks
Collette
Collette King
Stag Energy
 
t:  +44 (0)131 550 3380
f:  +44 (0)131 550 3399
www.stagenergy.com
 
49 York Place
Edinburgh
EH1 3JD
 
The information contained in or attached to this email is intended only for the use of the individual or entity to
which it is addressed. If you are not the intended recipient, or a person responsible for delivering it to the
intended recipient, you are not authorised to and must not disclose, copy, distribute, or retain this message or
any part of it. It may contain information which is confidential and/or covered by legal professional or other
privilege (or other rules or laws with similar effect in jurisdictions outside Scotland). The views expressed in
this email are not necessarily the views of Stag Energy Development Company Limited (the "company"), and
the company, its directors, officers or employees make no representation or accept any liability for its accuracy
or completeness unless expressly stated to the contrary.  We do not accept any liability or responsibility for: (1)
changes made to this e-mail or any attachment after it was sent, or (2) viruses transmitted through this e-mail or
any attachment.  Stag Energy Development Co. Ltd.  Registered Office: 49 York Place, Edinburgh, EH1 3JD
Registered in Scotland No SC240966
-----Original Message-----
From: Alyson Adams [mailto:alysonadams9@icloud.com]
Sent: 13 February 2018 02:13 PM
To: Abergelli Power <info@abergellipower.co.uk>
Subject: Abergelli Power Project
Dear Sir/Madam, we are writing to you with regards to you application for planning to build a gas fired power
station within close proximity to our property, which is the Old Barn, Maeseglwys Farm. We have many
concerns regarding this. Our property is fed by well water and we are worried that our water supply will be
contaminated whilst building and maintaining this powerstation.we think that there is no need to build this on
green belt areas , as this should be built on brown belt land, so that you do not disturb the nature and woodland
area. We are also concerned about dust , vibration and noise from both the building and operating of this
plant.we have velux windows in our property, and sleep with these open on most nights.you like to use the word
minimum, what exactly does this mean, with regards to vapour produced by the proposed stack. This stack
would be visible from our property, and fumes are likely to blow our way.The access route which you wish to
use is also access to many properties, this could cause bad congestion. This road narrows badly in certain parts,
as we travel this way several times a week. Our property is currently up for sale, it is an executive property,and
we are extremely worried about the depreciation in value if we were to have this powerstion next door. A
question was asked at your meeting and to your solicitors as to whether they would purchase a property next to
your proposed gas fired power plant, all of whom said they would not. We wish to make this clear, that we
apposition this planning application on many levels.
Yours Faithfully
Mr and mrs Adams.Sent from my iPad
--------------------------------------------------------------------
This message has been scanned for viruses by Websense
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix 11.C: Phase 2 S42 Consultation Feedback 
and APL Response 
 
Theme
No. of 
Comments
Summary of Comments
Consultee Body
 Response in APL ES and/or DCO Application
Air Quality
1
One comment agrees that in relation to the Natura 2000 sites there is no likely 
significant effect alone from the emissions and depositions of NOx. However, the 
consultee highlights that although the contributions are below 1% and may not be 
significant alone (ref to NSER), this does not rule out the requirement of an in-
combination assessment.
Natural Resources 
Wales
APL welcomes the acceptance of the No Significant Effects Report (NSER) conclusions. APL's response regarding 
NRW comments on in-combination effects is given below.  
Air Quality
1
One comment states that the nitrogen deposition Table 1-7 (Chapter 6) has not been 
displayed as percentage values, and the contributions from the development to the 
Natura 2000 sites are below 1% of the relevant nitrogen critical load. Based on the 
Wealden Judgment, it is considered that an in combination is required.
Natural Resources 
Wales
The table has been updated to present the % change in NOx. APL has assumed that NRW are acknowledging that 
the NSER report screens out in combination effects from the two developments due to stack emissions and that the 
query relates to in combination effects from road traffic emissions.
APL wishes to note that limited to no traffic data is available for any of the strategic sites which are listed in the 
Chapter 17 Cumulative Effects.
Air Quality
1
One comment states that APL has identified two projects that could act in combination 
with the development. Sections 1.5.4 and 1.5.5 explain why these projects are not going 
to act in combination with Abergelli, however the consultee advises that additional 
information should be added to detailing and confirming where projects have changes in 
traffic emissions, that Natura 2000 sites are further than the 200m screening distance 
for road traffic assessments. Additionally, for other developments that have emissions, it 
would be beneficial to demonstrate that those developments are beyond their relevant 
screening distances.  
Natural Resources 
Wales
APL has assumed that NRW is acknowledging that the NSER report screens out in combination effects from the two 
developments due to stack emissions and that the query relates to in combination effects from road traffic 
emissions.  APL wishes to note that limited to no traffic data is available for any of the strategic sites which are listed 
in the Chapter 17 Cumulative Effects, and so clarity on this point would be very much appreciated at the earliest 
opportunity. 
Air Quality
1
One comment advises that an assessment of Air Quality impacts (both alone, and 
cumulative effects) on the Sites of Special Scientific Interest (SSSI) within the relevant 
screening distance (2km) is required to be submitted.
Natural Resources 
Wales
The Nant y Crimp SSSI is more than 2km from the Project Site boundary and as such there are no in-combination 
traffic effects.
Air Quality
2
Two comments relate to dust emissions during the decommissioning phase of the 
Project, and one specifically asks that further reference is included in the ES in relation 
to dust and debris during the decommissioning phases of the Project.
City and County of 
Swansea Council
APL notes this comment and confirms that a Decommissioning Plan as detailed in the 'Decommissioning Strategy' 
requirement in the DCO, Schedule 2 Requirements will be required to be submitted and agreed with City and County 
of Swansea at the appropriate time but prior to any decommissioning works being undertaken.
Air Quality
4
Four comments are concerned about the effect of air emissions from the Project.
Pontlliw & Tircoed 
Community Council/ 
Llangyfelach 
Community Council
The potential effects on air quality are assessed in Chapter 6 of the ES and no significant impacts are anticipated.
Air Quality
2
Two of the comments are concerned that the positioning of the Project will have cause 
health issues for the surrounding properties due to the co2 (sic) emissions, mainly due 
to weather conditions i.e. temperature inversions. 
Response 
anonymised
An assessment of the potential air quality effects of the proposed development is presented in Chapter 6 of the ES.  
The meteorological data used in the air quality assessment has been sourced in consultation with City and County of 
Swansea Council (CCS).  The meteorological data provided by the CCS Environmental Health Officer has been 
selected to ensure that the air quality assessment takes account of the local meteorological conditions, including 
cloud cover, wind speeds, wind directions, precipitation and temperature.  The assessment also includes terrain 
data to ensure that effects such as depression and low lying land are taken into account when predicting 
concentrations of emissions, such as CO2, at nearby receptors.
Air Quality
1
One comment notes that air quality modelling has been undertaken to assess the impact 
of NOx concentrations and acid/nitrogen deposition on ecological receptors and 
concludes the effects on air quality are considered ‘Negligible’. 
Dwr Cymru Welsh 
Water
APL notes this comment and considers no further action are necessary.
Air Quality
1
One comment states a detailed technical assessment of the air quality modelling will be 
undertaken by NRW once an EPR application has been duly made. NRW notes that it 
has previously provided comments on the suitability and availability of weather data for 
the locality.
Natural Resources 
Wales
APL acknowledges this comment. Further details on the EPR application are in Document Reference 5.4 Details of 
Other Consents and Licences Required. 
Phase 2 S42 Consultation Feedback and APL Response
1
Theme
No. of 
Comments
Summary of Comments
Consultee Body
 Response in APL ES and/or DCO Application
Air Quality
2
Two comments question how the Project will interact with localised weather and wind 
conditions and how that will affect ground level gas pollutants and ground level acidity.
Pontlliw & Tircoed 
Community Council
The dispersion modelling for the air quality assessment presented in Chapter 6 of the ES has used meteorological 
data that has been specified by CCS, provided by the CCS Environmental Health Officer to ensure that the 
dispersion modelling takes account of the local meteorological conditions, including cloud cover, wind speeds, wind 
directions, precipitation and temperature.  The dispersion model also includes terrain data to ensure that effects 
such as depression and low lying land are taking into account when predicting concentrations at receptors and 
dispersion from the stack. 
With regards to concerns about ground level gas pollutants and acid levels, the absorption of emissions from the 
plume into rainfall is very limited and does not take place within the short-term or close to the stack as the pollutants 
have to undergo various chemical reactions before they become soluble which takes many days and by that time, 
the pollutants will have travelled many hundreds of kilometres away. However, dry deposition is of more concern as 
it increases the availability of nutrient nitrogen and can increase  acidification which could affect ecological 
receptors. This effect has been considered as part of the ecological assessment in Chapter 8 of the ES.  The impact 
on ecology has been assessed to be negligible.
Air Quality
1
The local residents are concerned as the Project only has to meet the less stringent 
Emission Limit Values (ELV’s) in respect of a 1500 hour derogation power plant (less 
stringent ELV’s for SO2 & NOx apply to power plants which operate for less than 1500 
hours per year on a rolling average over a 5 year period).  
Llangyfelach 
Community Council
The proposed site has been designed to minimise emission to air as far as practicable while achieving its intended 
purpose.  the emissions from the plant will achieve the emission limits set out in the European Industrial Emission 
Directive (IED) which the UK has written into law and forms part of our environmental permitting system over seen 
by NRW in Wales.  These emission limits apply to all power stations across Europe and are designed to ensure that 
emission do not lead to significant environmental harm and take into account transboundary pollution effects on 
neighbouring countries within the EU and outside of Europe.  The IED was preceded by the European Large 
Combustion Plant directive which was also written into UK law.  The Large Combustion Plant directive introduced 
emission limits which had to be achieved by older power generating plants by a certain deadline if they were to 
continue operating.  If the plant could not achieve the limit or if it was not cost effective to achieve these limits then 
the sites had to shut down which has resulted in the closure of a large number of older gas, oil and coal fired power 
stations throughout the UK. 
As well as setting limits for existing power plants the directive also set more stringent emission limits for all new plant 
that were to be built after the regulation came into force based on the state of technology at the time. The Large 
Combustion Plant directive was replaced by the IED which once more included one set of emission limits for existing 
plants or those under construction (Annex V Part 1) and more stringent emission limits for newer plants which are 
granted a permit to operate after the January 2013 or started operating by January 2014. As the 2013/2014 deadline 
has now passed the proposed OCGT plant will have to meet the most stringent emission limits that are set out in the 
IED. The proposed site will therefore achieve the most stringent emission limits that are applicable throughout 
Europe and in practice will operate at below these emission limits to ensure that any fluctuations in operations does 
not lead to an exceedance of the limit.  
If the limit is exceeded, then Natural Resources Wales (NRW) must be notified and if the limit is exceeded on a 
regular basis then NRW may order the site to cease operation (this is regulated under the Environmental Permit).  
The site’s stack height has been optimised to maximise dispersion of pollutants to ensure that local impacts are 
minimised as far as practicable while more regional effects will be managed by the permitting process as applied by 
NRW and determined as part of the DCO process and forms one of the items of consideration as part of the 
National Policy Statements for Energy.
Phase 2 S42 Consultation Feedback and APL Response
2
Theme
No. of 
Comments
Summary of Comments
Consultee Body
 Response in APL ES and/or DCO Application
Air Quality
1
One comment raises concern about air emissions settling on surrounding developments 
(both existing and proposed) .
Llangyfelach 
Community Council
The proposed stack height has been optimised to maximise dispersion of pollutants to ensure that air quality effects 
minimised as far as practicable. For the purposes of the air quality assessment presented in Chapter 6 of the ES, 
receptors have been located at both existing and proposed developments in the area. 
The air quality assessment considers all residential properties in close proximity to the site, as well as receptors at 
illustrative locations in order to cover residential areas further from the site, including one at Llangyfelach and one 
representative of Morriston Hospital.
In addition, at the request of the CCS Environmental Health Officer, a receptor has also been located at the closest 
location on the LDP Strategic Development Site to the west of the Project Site, which includes a proposal for 850 
dwellings. As such, the air quality assessment ensures that the potential effect of the plant on air quality on the 
nearby proposed residential site has been assessed.
Air Quality
2
There are two comments relating to air pollution. One is a more general comment about  
the effects from the Project on human health due to air pollution, the other specifically 
relates to air pollution from gas-fired generating stations in relation to current coal-fired 
generating stations. 
Response 
anonymised
APL notes this comment and clarifies that major accidents and abnormal operations, including gas leaks, fires and 
explosions are considered in Chapter 15 Other Effects in the ES. Operational maintenance is also described in 
detail in Chapter 3 Project Site and Description.
With regards to concerns that the Project is not "cleaner" than current coal APL notes that the emissions from the 
plant will achieve the emission limits set out in the European Industrial Emission Directive (IED) which the UK has 
written into law and forms part of our environmental permitting system over seen by NRW in Wales.  These 
emission limits apply to all power stations across Europe and are designed to ensure that emission do not lead to 
significant environmental harm and take into account transboundary pollution effects on neighbouring countries 
within the EU and outside of Europe.  The IED was preceded by the European Large Combustion Plant directive 
which was also written into UK law.  The Large Combustion Plant directive introduced emission limits which had to 
be achieved by older power generating plants by a certain deadline if they were to continue operating.  If the plant 
could not achieve the limit or if it was not cost effective to achieve these limits then the sites had to shut down which 
has resulted in the closure of a large number of older gas, oil and coal fired power stations throughout the UK. As 
well as setting limits for existing power plants the directive also set more stringent emission limits for all new plant 
that were to be built after the regulation came into force based on the state of technology at the time. The Large 
Combustion Plant directive was replaced by the IED which once more included one set of emission limits for existing 
plants or those under construction (Annex V Part 1) and more stringent emission limits for newer plants which are 
granted a permit to operate after the January 2013 or started operating by January 2014. As the 2013/2014 deadline 
has now passed the proposed OCGT plant will have to meet the most stringent emission limits that are set out in the 
IED. The proposed site will therefore achieve the most stringent emission limits that are applicable throughout 
Europe and in practice will operate at below these emission limits to ensure that any fluctuations in operations does 
not lead to an exceedance of the limit.  
If the limit is exceeded, then Natural Resources Wales (NRW) must be notified and if the limit is exceeded on a 
regular basis then NRW may order the site to cease operation.  The site’s stack height has been optimised to 
maximise dispersion of pollutants to ensure that local impacts are minimised as far as practicable while more 
regional effects will be managed by the permitting process as applied by NRW and determined as part of the DCO 
process and forms one of the items of consideration as part of the National Policy Statements for Energy.
Air Quality/Water
1
One comment notes that the reservoir and Afon Lliw have been excluded from further 
assessment as both are up gradient and therefore not in direct hydraulic continuity.
Dwr Cymru Welsh 
Water
APL notes this comment and considers no further action are necessary.
Cultural Heritage
1
One comment acknowledges and agrees with the conclusions of the PEIR on the impact 
of the proposal to the historic assets identified within the study area.
Welsh Government APL notes this comment and considers no further action are necessary.
Phase 2 S42 Consultation Feedback and APL Response
3
Theme
No. of 
Comments
Summary of Comments
Consultee Body
 Response in APL ES and/or DCO Application
Cultural Heritage
1
One comments agrees that the Chapter 13 adequately covers the effect on all 
designated heritage assets and the Urban Design and Conservation Officer has no 
further comments in this regard.
City and County of 
Swansea Council
APL welcomes this comment and considers that no further action is required to resolve this comment.
Cultural Heritage
1
One comment suggests that there is the risk of unknown heritage being discovered 
during the development and the Glamorgan-Gwent Archaeological Trust (GGAT) should 
advise on the need for a watching brief.
City and County of 
Swansea Council
APL contacted GGAT to invite comment on the need for a watching brief during the construction phase. GGAT 
responded, suggesting that APL undertake a precautionary approach and undertake a watching brief. 
Accordingly, as identified in Chapter 13 Historic Environment of the ES (Document Reference 6.1) and secured by 
the "Archaeology" requirement in Schedule 2 of the DCO, prior to commencement of work a written scheme for the 
investigation of areas of archaeological interest must be approved by CCS. 
Cultural Heritage
1
One comment highlighted that Table 5-5 of Appendix 13.1 (Heritage Gazetteer) 
indicates that Pare Llewelyn is Grade 2 Registered Historic Park and Garden. Following 
clarification with the Urban Design and Conservation Officer, the advise is that the Pare 
Llewelyn is not a Registered Historic Park, and APL may wish to exclude this from the 
Heritage Gazetteer.
City and County of 
Swansea Council
APL has clarified that Parc Llewellyn is included on the GIS dataset for the Cadw register of historic parks and 
gardens (dataset maintained and provided by Cadw). Its Register entry is PGW (Gm) 75(SWA) and is Grade II. We 
have not checked this data against the published copy of the Register, but have no reason to assume this is an 
error. In summary, the Heritage Gazateer presented as an appendix to the ES remains unchanged.
Cultural Heritage
1
Figure 13.1 shows the heritage assets located within 1km of the site boundary. Whilst 
the Listed Buildings at Tredegar Fawr are located just outside of this boundary, they are 
readily visible on the plan and it would be useful to indicate them on this figure to provide 
further context.
City and County of 
Swansea Council
APL acknowledges this and the heritage assets have been added to Figure 13.1.
Cumulative Impact 1
One comment  questions how the Project would impact on proposed development. The 
comment states that there is already heavy development in the local area, including 
renewable energy, with more proposed, potentially including a rail station and village. 
The comment  questions whether the development of the Project will open a gateway for 
further similar industrial development in the local area. 
Response 
anonymised
The list of developments considered by the APL cumulative assessment has been agreed in consultation with the 
City and County of Swansea Council (CCS) and includes developments which are: 
• In the process of being built;
• Permitted application(s) but not yet implemented;
• Submitted application(s) not yet determined;
• Projects on the National Infrastructure’s programme of projects;
• Projects identified in the relevant development plan (and emerging development plants – with appropriate weight 
being given as they move closer to adoption) recognising that information on the relevant proposals will be limited; 
and
• Projects identified in other plans and programmes (as appropriate) which set the framework for future 
DCOs/approvals, where such development is reasonably likely to come forward.
The agreed list can be found in Table 4-6 Projects considered with the cumulative assessment, in Chapter 4 
“Approach to EIA”. 
Future plans for the development of the local area are set out in the CCS Draft Local Development Plan, which is 
currently under examination. These plans include allocation for over 800 homes in the Strategic Development site to 
the west of the B4489, and an area allocated as a potential waste management area to the east of the site. 
Phase 2 S42 Consultation Feedback and APL Response
4
Theme
No. of 
Comments
Summary of Comments
Consultee Body
 Response in APL ES and/or DCO Application
Cumulative Impact 1
As explained in our recent meeting, there are also three other schemes located within 
6km of the site that have recently been submitted (undetermined) that fall within the 
definition of major development as set out in the Town and Country Planning 
(Development Management Procedure) (Wales) Order 2012 (as amended). However, 
two of these are residential developments of fewer than 23 units, each located 
approximately 5.5km away from the site whilst the other proposal is for 1,700m2 of 
commercial space located 4km away from the site. Within this context, it is not 
considered that these proposals would have a cumulative impact on the Project and that 
February 2018 is the cut off date for cumulative impact projects in the EIA.
City and County of 
Swansea Council
A cumulative assessment has been carried out relating to the three schemes as mentioned, where possible. The ES 
(Document Reference 6.1) includes a discussion on cumulative effects in Chapter 17 Cumulative Effects. 
Cumulative Impact 1
Para 17.6.5 states that the Strategic Site at Felindre and other Strategic Sites have 
been scoped out as there are limited details about the scale and nature of the proposed 
developments. This is considered inaccurate. The Strategic Site at Felindre and the 
Strategic Site at Clasemont Road are both identified within the Emerging LDP which 
clarifies what is proposed as part of the development in terms of the number of units and 
supporting infrastructure. Both of these schemes have been subject to Scoping 
Opinions as well providing information on the various topics to be included within such 
an assessment. These sites are for 850 and 600 dwellings respectively and each would 
have a school and local centre.
Junction 46 of the M4 is in very close proximity to each of these sites and, assuming the 
LDP is adopted in its current form, are highly likely to be under construction at the same 
time as this site given their long build out periods over several years. Whilst the LDP is 
currently under Examination and it is appreciated that the LDP may not be adopted in its 
current form, it is considered more robust to include these two proposals within the 
Landscape and Visual Impact and Traffic, Transport and Access Chapters at this stage 
as the LDP should be adopted in Autumn 2018, prior to any DCO consent being made 
for this proposal.
City and County of 
Swansea Council
Both of the strategic sites were identified in the 'long list' as detailed Table 4-6 and located in Figure 4-1. These 
schemes were classed as 'Identified / Allocated' and limited information was available at the time of writing.  There 
are complexities with trying to assume likely effects and mitigation measures associated with the strategic sites that 
would prevent meaningful assessment at this stage.
This Project is considerably progressed at this point, ahead of the nearby potential strategic site allocations. These 
allocated sites would therefore need to account for the Project as committed. 
Cumulative Impact 1
One comment notes the difficulty of assessing the traffic forecasts for the 
decommissioning phase which is accepted, but this reiterates the need for a 
comprehensive Decommissioning Method Statement which considers updated 
environmental information at a later date. However, Paragraph 12.7.30 states that the 
overall impact of the project is likely to be lesser in nature than construction as many 
aspects are likely to be left in situ. Whilst this is appreciated, the traffic on the highway in 
the vicinity of the site (and utilising junction 46 specifically) is expected to have 
increased significantly by the time of decommissioning as the Strategic Business Park 
should have been developed at that time (utilising Link 2) and the Strategic 
Development Area identified in the LOP (assuming it is included in the Adopted Plan) 
would also be fully operational and heavily dependent on the car, based on the existing 
traffic situation.
City and County of 
Swansea Council
APL has included developments that are consented or allocated where there is a reasonable degree of certainty will 
proceed within the next three years. APL may be required to carry out an assessment of the impact of those 
adopted Local Plan allocations which have the potential to impact on the same sections of transport network as well 
as other relevant local sites benefitting from as yet unimplemented planning approval.
In considering the current status of the LDP and the timeline of the Project, APL considers that it is unlikely that 
Felindre and the Project will overlap.  The Swansea LDP is, at the time of writing, at the inspector’s hearing and may 
become formally adopted by the end of summer or autumn. Therefore the official status of all the strategic 
development sites is unallocated. In the case of Felindre, the tender for transport planning services was put out one 
to two years ago and from APL's review we assume that there is no planning application submitted and in the public 
domain. Therefore the site in question is not classed as consented.
The Application is to be submitted in May 2018 and DCO consent is anticipated in Q3 2019. This will lead to the 
commencement of the (less than) two year construction period. The probability of the two sites being in construction 
period at the same time is low. In the worst and unlikely case Felindre construction may start at the end of the 
Project construction period. This would be after peak Project construction traffic, which occurs around 11 months 
from start. The Felindre construction would also be limited to initial preliminary construction activities at that time.
Phase 2 S42 Consultation Feedback and APL Response
5
Theme
No. of 
Comments
Summary of Comments
Consultee Body
 Response in APL ES and/or DCO Application
Cumulative Impact 
(continued)
1 (continued)
Para 12.10.4 considers the cumulative impact of other developments that have been 
submitted for planning permission. 12.10.5 goes on to state why certain projects have 
been excluded from the cumulative impact assessment. Whilst it is appreciated that two 
of the nearby LOP sites are not yet subject to a planning application and few details of 
traffic generation have been provided; it is considered that two strategic sites (Strategic 
Sites G at Felindre and E at Clasemont Road) should be included within the assessment 
given their proximity to the site and Junction 46 of the M4. The LOP is currently at 
Examination and given the scale of both developments (850 units and 600 units 
respectively along with a school and local centre at each site), it is anticipated that they 
will each take several years to develop completely. The LOP will run until 2025 and 
applications on these sites are anticipated shortly in order to provide the requisite 
number of units within the plan period. Given that construction of the Project is 
anticipated to occur in 2020, it is highly likely that these sites would be under 
construction at the same time (assuming the LOP is considered sound, these sites 
remain within the plan and the plan is recommended for adoption) and should therefore 
be considered within the cumulative assessment in terms of construction. Whilst at the 
current time full details of the construction timelines are not available, it is considered 
that the build rates would be similar to the Strategic Site at Llangyfelach 
(2017/1822/0UT) that has been included (as an application has been submitted) and this 
could be used as a basis for a more robust assessment. Link 2 in the TA would also be 
used by construction traffic for the Strategic Site at Felindre and Junction 46 is likely to 
be used by the construction traffic going to the 3 Strategic Sites within the vicinity.
At this stage this Project is considerably progressed, ahead of the nearby potential strategic site allocations. Thus if, 
in the unlikely scenario, the sites were to overlap construction periods for less than a year, Felindre would need to 
account for the Project as committed. This approach would also ensure robust assessments were undertaken in the 
future given that the Project traffic impact will be in the public domain and agreed with CCS, this eliminates the need 
for broad assumptions and follows logical steps. There are complexities with trying to assume development 
quantum, access arrangements and mitigation measures associated with strategic sites that would prevent 
meaningful assessment at this stage.
With regards to the decommissioning, the request for assessments are noted. APL would advise that at present it 
does not have the ability to forecast that far into the future as the growth rate calculators are not that far advanced 
and also have not been updated with LDP allocations or any trends in economic activity or government intervention 
on private car use. APL has confirmed within the assessment that decommission will result in less of a traffic impact 
than construction. Decommissioning will be subject to the 'Decommissioning Strategy' requirement as detailed in the 
DCO, Schedule 2 Requirements.
Design
3
Three comments relate to the decommissioning phase, specifically the design life of the 
Project and state that the 2018 PEIR is unclear how the power plant will be re-powered 
at the end of its anticipated 25 year working life.
City and County of 
Swansea Council
APL can confirm that the ES has been updated to clarify the Project design life. For the purpose of the EIA and in 
order to allow a decommissioning assessment to be presented in the ES, the assessment takes the design life of 
the power generation plant (25 years) as its assumption for the point in time when decommissioning is assessed. 
For the purposes of the assessment, it is assumed that the above ground Generating Equipment would be 
demolished and removed after 25 years and the Generating Equipment Site re-instated to a similar condition as 
before construction. Any decommissioning phase would be likely to be of a similar duration to construction i.e. 22 
months. The detail of future decommissioning will be determined following submission of a decommissioning 
strategy for approval by CCS under the corresponding Requirement in Schedule 2 of the DCO.
Design
1
Vodafone: Fixed does have apparatus within the vicinity of your proposed works. Where 
apparatus is affected and requires diversion, please send all the scheme related 
proposals that affects the Vodafone Network.
Vodafone Limited
APL notes this comment and can confirm that no impacts to Vodafone assets are anticipated as a result of the 
Project. 
Design
1
The Community Council feel that that before a Development Control Order is considered 
for approval and an NRW permit is also considered for approval; that it would be more 
appropriate that a more efficient gas fired power station should be looked at to include 
the recycling of hot/warm gases generated, from such a station be used to serve the 
buildings on the site , the nearby Swansea Business Park & the proposed 850 dwelling 
etc. on Strategic Site G in the Swansea Local Development Plan.
Llangyfelach 
Community Council
APL notes this comment about the recycling of hot gases from the Project, to serve the onsite buildings as well as 
other developments in the local area. The potential for combined heat and power (CHP) opportunities are 
considered in Chapter 5 Alternatives Considered of the ES, which concludes that it is not technically or economically 
feasible with a peaking power station in this location.
The proposed power station is to operate as a peaking plant to address short-term changes in power supply or 
demand.  To achieve this the plant needs to be able to start producing electricity as quickly as possible and 
conversely to shut down as fast as possible to only operate when there is a need.  This type of plant is not 
conducive to the supply of heat to other sites/residential properties which would need regular heating supplies 
throughout the year for industrial use of more heat in winter and none in summer for residential use.  As the peaking 
plant will only operate if there is a need there would be no heat available at some time of the day/year unless the 
OCGT operated at all times which is not economically viable.  
APL notes the comment in relation to the Environmental Permit and can confirm that the DCO and EP applications 
will be twin tracked.   
Phase 2 S42 Consultation Feedback and APL Response
6
Theme
No. of 
Comments
Summary of Comments
Consultee Body
 Response in APL ES and/or DCO Application
Design 
1
One comment notes that it is unlikely that there will be other impacts of the power 
project affecting access to the solar assets under your management. The comment 
further states there is a need for a technical interface discussion and the potential 
protections that may be given to Foresight on the face of the order (Protective 
Provisions). 
Response 
anonymised
APL notes this comment. Consultation regarding the protection of assets is ongoing.  
Draft protective provisions to protect assets from the Project have been sent to the consultee for comment. These 
will be included in the draft DCO (Document Reference 3.1).
Ecology
1
One comment advises that the NSER is updated under the ‘Justification for inclusion in 
HRA screening’ column to include hydrological connectivity between the development 
site and the protected sites via the Afon Llan  and Afon Lliw.  
Natural Resources 
Wales
APL notes this comment. Additional information has been added to the HRA (Document Reference 5.5 ) to discuss 
hydrological connectivity. 
Ecology
1
One comment welcomes the undergrounding of electricity cables, however asks for the 
impact of the installation process on wildlife to be fully assessed and compensatory 
provision made where required. Reference should be made to all protected species 
issues raised when the nearby gas pipeline was laid and Gas Compressor Station built. 
Welsh Government APL notes this comment and confirms that a comprehensive ecological assessment has been undertaken and the 
findings are presented in Chapter 8 Ecology of the ES (Document Reference 6.1) 
Ecology
1
One comment suggests that the Project should progress any opportunities to enhance 
biodiversity to contribute to enhancements to biodiversity under Section 6 of the 
Environment (Wales) Act 2016
Welsh Government APL can confirm that an Outline Landscape and Ecology Mitigation Plan (ES Figure 3.6, Document Reference 6.3) 
and Outline Landscape and Ecology Mitigation Strategy (ES Appendix 3.4, Document Reference 6.2) has been 
submitted with the DCO that includes reinstatement and enhancement measures. 
Ecology
1
One comment welcomes the dormice surveys undertaken to inform the application and 
agrees that dormice are unlikely to be affected by the proposals.
Natural Resources 
Wales
APL welcomes this comment and considers that no further action is required to resolve this comment.
Ecology
1
One comment welcomes the Great Crested Newt surveys undertaken to inform the 
application and note the results of those surveys. No further comments are required.
Natural Resources 
Wales
APL welcomes this comment and considers that no further action is required to resolve this comment.
Ecology
1
One comment welcomes the ‘Bat Activity - Areas of Potential Impact’ figure, and 
considers that these matters should be addressed by reinstating the hedgerows and 
rows of trees in the north of the site, following the installation of the proposed gas 
pipeline to ensure that bat flightpaths along habitat features are maintained.
Natural Resources 
Wales
APL acknowledges the comments provided and confirms that a Landscape & Ecology Mitigation Plan has been 
produced (ES Figure 3.6, Document Reference 6.3) as per discussions in the meeting held on the 6th February 
2018, which shows where hedgerows and trees will be removed and reinstated. APL can confirm that the hedgerows 
and trees removed to facilitate the construction of the gas pipeline will be reinstated, other than on land above the 
gas pipeline.
Ecology
1
One comment advises the agreement of a lighting plan that limits lighting of the site’s 
infrastructure and not on the surrounding vegetation, by creating dark corridors within 
the project site. 
Natural Resources 
Wales
APL notes the comment related to a Lighting Plan and dark corridors. Discussions were held during the meeting 
held on the 06 February 2018. The Outline Landscape & Ecology Mitigation Plan (ES Figure 3.6, Document 
Reference 6.3) provides details of how dark corridors will be designed to allow species to commute and forage 
across the Project  during construction and operation.
Ecology
1
One comment notes the mine adit/shaft currently being assessed for its potential to 
support bats, and welcome that the results will be included in the final submission.
Natural Resources 
Wales
APL can confirm that safety investigations regarding the mine shaft have confirmed the location of the shaft and that 
it has been filled in, hence there is no likelihood of hibernating bats or any suitable bat habitat being present. 
Ecology
1
One comment welcomes the surveys for otters and water voles and advises that further 
information on the final route of the access route should be submitted, along with an 
assessment of its impacts on the watercourses onsite, to include any culverting/re-
routing of watercourses and riparian habitat retention/reinstatement. Clarification is 
required of the measures to ensure that otters/water voles can continue to move along 
the watercourse.
Natural Resources 
Wales
APL welcomes this comment. The Environmental Statement includes the location of the new section of access road 
and an updated assessment of watercourses. The Outline Landscape & Ecology Mitigation Plan (ES Figure 3.6, 
Document Reference 6.3) provides details of any watercourses which are diverted, removed and reinstated as part 
of the construction and operation of the Project, in addition to any mitigation required in relation to otters and water 
voles.
Ecology
1
One comment advises that lighting impacts to the watercourses particularly those in the 
eastern part of the site should be addressed by an agreed lighting plan.
Natural Resources 
Wales
APL confirms that the Outline Landscape & Ecology Mitigation Plan (ES Figure 3.6, Document Reference 6.3) 
provides details of watercourses which are diverted, removed and reinstated as part of the construction and 
operation of the Project, in addition to any mitigation required in relation to otters and water voles (if required).
Phase 2 S42 Consultation Feedback and APL Response
7
Theme
No. of 
Comments
Summary of Comments
Consultee Body
 Response in APL ES and/or DCO Application
Ecology
1
One comment requests that the permanent removal of ancient woodland should be 
avoided where possible. 
Natural Resources 
Wales
APL acknowledges this comment and confirms that the locations of the Generating Equipment Site and the Gas 
Pipeline have been designed to avoid ancient woodland. Furthermore, the final alignment of the new section of 
access road has also been selected to avoid, as much as possible, the area of ancient to the east of the Felindre 
Gas Compressor Station and the Substation. 
Ecology
1
One comment requests that a proposed long-term habitat management plan should be 
provided, detailing retained features, mitigation and enhancement of habitats, including 
detail on how these areas will be managed and monitored.
Natural Resources 
Wales
APL notes this comment and clarifies that the Outline Landscape & Ecology Mitigation Plan (ES Figure 3.6, 
Document Reference 6.3) and Outline Landscape and Ecology Mitigation Strategy (ES Appendix 3.4, Document 
Reference 6.2) outlines features, mitigation and enhancement of habitats, and details how these areas will be 
managed and monitored. 
Ecology
1
One comment is concerned about the removal of a hedgerow and two ponds, further 
suggesting that this would damage the wildlife dependent on the hedgerow and ponds.
Response 
anonymised
A comprehensive suite of ecological surveys has been carried out in support of the Project, all of which are 
published with the ES. In addition to a general habitat survey (Appendix 8.1), the following species specific surveys 
have also been carried out and can be located in Volumes B and C of the ES Technical Appendices (Document 
Reference 6.2) :
• Invertebrate Survey Report 
• Great Crested Newt Survey Report
• Reptile Survey Report
• Breeding Bird Survey Report 
• Bat Surveys
• Dormouse Survey 
• Otter and Water Vole Survey 
• Invasive Plant Species Survey 
• Arboricultural Survey 
Where the construction, operation of maintenance of the Project could affect habitats or species, the ES proposes 
appropriate mitigation – this is discussed in Chapter 8 Ecology. Where habitat is to be removed, reinstatement or 
replacement planting is proposed. This is also the case for the ponds, as two attenuation ponds that are included in 
the Project design – one at the Generating Equipment Site and the other adjacent to the Above Ground Installation 
– which will become green infrastructure features. 
Ecology
1
One comment notes that the survey work undertaken to date is extensive and 
comprehensive, however, there is currently a lack of detail around the total extent of 
habitat loss and the measures to be employed to avoid, mitigate and compensate for the 
unavoidable impacts. The mitigation hierarchy must be clearly presented to allow an 
informed decision to be made regarding the degree of loss and subsequent measures to 
be employed to ameliorate that loss.
City and County of 
Swansea Council
APL notes this comment about the ongoing survey work. Habitat loss calculations have been included in the ES for 
each habitat and designated site. Mitigation and compensation measures have been included in the ES for each 
feature where an effect has been evaluated as being significant. The ES proposes mitigation and compensation 
measures for each feature where the effect has been evaluated as significant. An Outline Landscape and Ecology 
Mitigation Plan (ES Figure 3.6, Document Reference 6.3) and an Outline Landscape and Ecology Mitigation 
Strategy (ES Appendix 3.4, Document Reference 6.2) include details of where mitigation and compensatory habitats 
will be located, and how they will be created and managed. The mitigation hierarchy is clearly presented in ES 
Chapter 8 Ecology. 
Ecology
1
One comment states that numerous bat species have been recorded as foraging and 
commuting across the site and NRW will provide detailed advice in relation to this 
European Protected Species. 
City and County of 
Swansea Council
APL notes this comment regarding NRW providing advice on bats as a European Protected Species. 
Ecology
1
One comment states that important routes appear to exist along the drainage ditches 
that cross the proposed main power generation plant area and therefore it is suggested 
that this be re--routed around the boundary of this working area to maintain the 
commuting route for these species. 
City and County of 
Swansea Council
APL notes this comment and confirms that mitigation with regards to bats considers key commuting and foraging 
routes, and aims to continue to allow species to commute and forage across the Site. The Outline Landscape and 
Ecology Mitigation Plan (ES Figure 3.6, Document Reference 6.3) includes details of dark corridors designed to 
allow species to commute and forage across the Site during construction and operation. 
Ecology
1
One comment notes that there are trees that have been identified as existing and 
potential bat roosts that must be fully considered as part of the application. In addition 
any new trees that might become affected as the scheme progresses must also be 
assessed for their potential to support roosting bats.
City and County of 
Swansea Council
Comments with regards to trees and bat roosts have been noted. Any trees that will be affected by the Project have 
been assessed for their potential to support roosting bats.
Phase 2 S42 Consultation Feedback and APL Response
8
Theme
No. of 
Comments
Summary of Comments
Consultee Body
 Response in APL ES and/or DCO Application
Ecology
1
One comment notes there is still a question mark over the presence of hibernation 
roosts in an identified mine and adit and states that this issue must be resolved.
City and County of 
Swansea Council
APL clarifies that safety investigations regarding the mine shaft have confirmed the location of the shaft and that it 
has been filled in, therefore there is no likelihood of hibernating bats or any suitable bat habitat being present.
Ecology
1
One comments states that a detailed mitigation statement should be compiled to 
demonstrate how bat species will be considered during construction, plant operation and 
the decommissioning phases.
City and County of 
Swansea Council
Mitigation with regards to bats during construction, operation and decommissioning are included in the Chapter 8 
Ecology of the ES (Document Reference 6.1). The Outline Landscape and Ecology Mitigation Plan (ES Figure 3.6, 
Document Reference 6.3) and Landscape and Ecology Mitigation Strategy (ES Appendix 3.4, Document Reference 
6.2). 
Ecology
1
One comment states that lighting will be particularly important for bats and the other 
nocturnal animals that have been identified, and a lighting strategy must be compiled 
that clearly demonstrates how lighting will be minimised and sensitively located in 
relation to the ecological constraints of the site.
City and County of 
Swansea Council
APL notes this comment and confirms that mitigation with regards to bats considers key commuting and foraging 
routes, and aims to continue to allow species to commute and forage across the Site. The Outline Landscape and 
Ecology Mitigation Plan (ES Figure 3.6, Document Reference 6.3) includes a details of dark corridors designed to 
allow species to commute and forage across the Site during construction and operation. Further details are in 
Appendix 3.5 Outline Lighting Strategy (Document Reference 6.2).
Ecology
1
One comment notes there are badger setts present that could be impacted by the 
proposal and NRW will need to comment on whether a licence might be necessary if 
works have the potential to infringe on The Protection of Badgers Act 1992. A detailed 
mitigation statement should be compiled to demonstrate how these species will be 
considered during construction/operation/decommissioning phases.
City and County of 
Swansea Council
APL confirms that details on the requirement for any licences if works have the potential to infringe on The 
Protection of Badgers Act 1992 have been included in the ES. Mitigation with regards to badgers during 
construction, operation and decommissioning are included in the ES (Document Reference 6.2).
Ecology
1
One comment notes that there is potential for otters to use habitats that will be affected 
by the proposal and NRW will provide detailed advice in relation to otter as a European 
Protected Species.  Although current use by water vole has been ruled out they should 
be able to re-colonise the site if they move back. All new water features created as part 
of the scheme should incorporate features to enable them to be used by this species if 
present.
City and County of 
Swansea Council
Comment noted regard NRW providing advice on otter as a European Protected Species. 
Comments regarding water vole being able to recolonise previously used areas of the Site have been noted.  
Of the water features created by the Project, attenuation ponds will become green infrastructure features that are 
suitable water vole habitat. The fire water tank cannot double up as a green infrastructure feature as it is not 
compatible with its function.
Ecology
1
Populations of slow worm and grass snake have been recorded on site and in areas to 
be affected by the works. It is not possible to rule out other species such as Adder as the 
habitat is suitable particularly the wet woodland edge habitat and they have been 
recorded within the 2km record search buffer.
A full and detailed method statement must be produced in respect of these species 
outlining how works will be carried out to avoid killing or injuring these species as 
required by the Wildlife & Countryside Act (1981). Given the amount of suitable 
surrounding habitat the strategy should seek to systematically make the working areas 
unsuitable for them and effectively "push" them into safeguarded adjacent receptor 
areas in the first instance. Some work may be required in the receptor areas before any 
works begin to increase the carrying capacity ready to receive the additional numbers of 
reptiles. As they will not be able to use the site in the same way as they currently do a 
certain amount of mitigation will be required to make up this short fall in the form of 
habitat improvement and targeted management. Some mitigation should take the form 
of creating suitable boundary habitats around working areas allowing reptiles to 
recolonise the site to some degree post construction.
City and County of 
Swansea Council
APL notes this comment about reptiles. A Reptile Mitigation Strategy has been provided in the Outline Landscape 
and Ecology Mitigation Strategy (ES Appendix 3.4, Document Reference 6.2). This will be secured via 
corresponding requirement in schedule 2 of the DCO.
Phase 2 S42 Consultation Feedback and APL Response
9
Theme
No. of 
Comments
Summary of Comments
Consultee Body
 Response in APL ES and/or DCO Application
Ecology
1
These are numerous on the site and there is a substantial risk of spread and 
contamination without appropriate preventative measures being in place. Of particular 
concern is the presence of floating pennywort in one of the ponds scheduled for 
removal. Given the amount of ground works and movement of soils, digging of new 
ditches and ponds that will be required there is a significant risk of spread. A detailed 
and thorough plan must be produced for its eradication on site and to prevent it from 
spreading to others. The same goes for the other species identified as present.
A detailed mitigation statement should be compiled to demonstrate how these species 
will be considered during construction works (could be incorporated into the CEMP), 
during plant operation and during the decommissioning phase.
City and County of 
Swansea Council
APL notes this comment about invasive and non-native species. An invasive species plan has been submitted in the 
Outline Landscape and Ecology Mitigation Strategy (ES Appendix 3.4, Document Reference 6.2). 
Ecology
1
It is currently unclear exactly how much SINC and Section 7 habitat will be lost to the 
proposal. Whilst the 2018 PEIR sets out some figures for habitat loss these are based 
on the main power generation plant and does not consider other loss that may occur 
during associated works such as access routes construction, electrical cable installation, 
drainage, AGI construction etc. All these elements must be fully considered to allow a 
thorough mitigation package to be determined.
Some loss has been identified as a temporary loss that can be reinstated once 
construction works are complete but this is not necessarily an easy thing to achieve, 
some habitat is easier that others but it must be carefully thought about and planned for 
it to be successful. Based on the current level of information it is not possible to 
determine if this strategy is feasible for example; is there sufficient receptor and storage 
areas for the temporarily removed habitat without harming existing habitat? How much 
will require new planting? More detail on how the temporary loss will be managed will be 
needed to properly determine the impacts of the scheme.
Where long term loss of habitat will occur compensation will be necessary. Although not 
detailed in the submitted literature it is understood from verbal communication that the 
"tear drop" or southernmost part of the development boundary is being considered as an 
offsetting area. This area is already assessed as marshy grassland and therefore has 
value in its own right. It is acknowledged that improvements could be made to this area 
to partially offset some loss but based on current information is considered insufficient 
on its own. The most suitable areas for offsetting are those of low ecological value such 
as improved grassland which is present in the surrounding area. As a standard, twice 
the amount of area should be sought in compensation as that which has been lost.
City and County of 
Swansea Council
APL acknowledges the comments provided and confirms that an Outline Landscape & Ecological Mitigation Plan 
(ES Figure 3.6, Document Reference 6.3) has been produced (as per discussions in the joint CCS/NRW Project 
meeting on the 6th February 2018), which presents an overview of landscape and ecological mitigation. This 
includes details about habitat loss, reinstatement, replanting and enhancement. The Mitigation Plan also provides 
information about proposed planting and habitat management for the "teardrop" area to the southwest of the 
Generating Equipment Site.  The Outline Landscape and Ecological Mitigation Plan is supported by the Outline 
Landscape and Ecology Mitigation Strategy (ES Appendix 3.4, Document Reference 6.2). The mitigation proposed 
in the Mitigation Plan and Mitigation Strategy are as discussed during a site visit on 19th March 2018, attended by 
both NRW and CCS. 
Ecology
1
The Wildlife Protection Plan should build upon the principles of the submitted Outline 
CEMP and include the following as a minimum:
• Risk assessment of potentially damaging construction activities. Identification of 
"biodiversity protection zones".
• Practical measures (both physical measures and sensitive working practices) to avoid 
or reduce impacts during construction (including species and habitat specific method 
statements*).
• The location and timing of sensitive works to avoid harm to biodiversity features.
• The times during construction when specialist ecologists need to be present on site
• Details of lighting during construction phase
• Details of any additional survey that will be necessary prior to the start of works
City and County of 
Swansea Council
APL notes this comment. These measures are covered by the Outline Landscape and Ecology Mitigation Strategy 
and Outline Landscape and Ecology Mitigation Plan (ES Figure 3.6, Document Reference 6.3) (ES Appendix 3.4, 
Document Reference 6.2) submitted with the ES, and secured via the corresponding requirement(s) in schedule 2 of 
the DCO.  
Phase 2 S42 Consultation Feedback and APL Response
10
Theme
No. of 
Comments
Summary of Comments
Consultee Body
 Response in APL ES and/or DCO Application
Ecology
1
One comment notes that in Para 8.7.40 that the impact of construction noise has been 
considered on the nearest bat roost, however, it is queried whether the impact of the 
operation of the Project would impact on bats given that Figures 5.1 and 5.3 of Appendix 
8.7 (Bat Activity Transect and Roost Survey Report) indicate that bats utilise the gallops 
which traverse the Project site. If this impact does not need to be considered, it would be 
useful to clarify why this element has not been considered further as it appears as an 
omission at the current time.
City and County of 
Swansea Council
APL notes this comment and confirms that effects from noise on commuting and foraging bats has been considered 
in Chapter 8 Ecology (Document Reference 6.1).
Ecology
1
Once the details of the mitigation hierarchy have been established, then a long term 
management plan should be produced to secure the mitigation and compensation areas 
and maximise the benefits through appropriate management and monitoring. It should 
include the following:
a) Description and evaluation of features to be managed.
b) Ecological trends and constraints on site that might influence management.
c) Aims and objectives of management e.g. to restore and enhance existing habitats, 
ensure successful establishment of new habitats etc.
d) Appropriate management options for achieving aims and objectives.
e) Prescriptions for management actions to include but not be limited to; a scheme for 
reptile receptor enhancement
f) Preparation of a work schedule (including an annual work plan capable of being rolled 
forward over a five-year period).
g) Details of the body or organization responsible for implementation of the plan.
h) On-going monitoring and remedial measures.
City and County of 
Swansea Council
APL notes this comment and confirms that the mitigation hierarchy has been integrated into the plant design, for 
example through access road routing. 
Ecology
1
Para 8.8.43 states that the detailed decommissioning....would be subject to a separate 
assessment and planning application at that time. Firstly, it is understood that the 
demolition of the Project would be included within any DCO granted so this statement is 
incorrect and secondly, it reiterates the general point that a full assessment of the 
environmental impact of the decommissioning will be required at a later date.
City and County of 
Swansea Council
APL notes these comments and clarifies that a Decommissioning Strategy will be required to be submitted and 
agreed with City and County of Swansea at the appropriate time but prior to any decommissioning works being 
undertaken, this will be secured via the 'Decommissioning Strategy' requirement in Schedule 2 of the draft DCO to 
be submitted with the APL DCO Application.  
For the purpose of the EIA and in order to allow a decommissioning assessment to be presented in the ES, the 
assessment takes the design life of the power generation plant (25 years) as its assumption for the point in time 
when decommissioning is assessed. For the purposes of the assessment, it is assumed that the above ground 
Generating Equipment would be demolished and removed after 25 years and the Generating Equipment Site re-
instated to a similar condition as before construction. Any decommissioning phase would be likely to be of a similar 
duration to construction i.e. 22 months. 
Ecology
1
It is appreciated that the additional mitigation measures will be required and that these 
have not been confirmed at this stage as they are subject to discussion with NRW and 
the Council's Ecologist (and some surveys are still on-going). Full details should however 
be provided with the DCO application.
City and County of 
Swansea Council
APL acknowledges this comment and considers no further action is necessary to resolve this comment.
Ecology
1
The submitted Arboricultural Report was undertaken in 2014 when the Project site was 
larger and the proposal was different. Section 3.3.5 highlights that certain works are 
required to trees along an internal access road (G3 and G4) which were required to 
enable construction of the gas connection. It is unclear whether the recommendations 
remain the same given that the scheme has subsequently changed. It would be useful 
for the applicant to update/ clarify the full extent of the tree works within the 
Environmental Statement to identify what is proposed as part of the DCO application.
City and County of 
Swansea Council
The scheme changes will be reflected in the Outline Landscape and Ecological Mitigation Strategy (ES Appendix 
3.4, Document Reference 6.2) which will refer to the Arboricultural Survey Report. 
Phase 2 S42 Consultation Feedback and APL Response
11
Theme
No. of 
Comments
Summary of Comments
Consultee Body
 Response in APL ES and/or DCO Application
Ecology
1
One comment raises concerns about developing the Project on Green Belt land, in 
particular to prevent disturbing the nature and woodland area. 
Response 
anonymised
APL notes this comment. The Abergelli Project is not located in a green belt area. Instead, both the Unitary 
Development Plan and the Local Development Plan (currently under examination) identify the land as a potential 
area of mineral extraction for either “Coal Resources” or “Sand and Gravel/Aggregates”.
Potential effects to ecology as a result of the development are considered by the Environmental Impact Assessment 
(EIA) undertaken in support of the Project and reported in the ES. A comprehensive suite of ecological surveys have 
been carried out, including bat, dormice and reptile surveys – these reports are provided as appendices to the ES, 
and the assessment of impacts and proposed mitigation measures are presented in Chapter 8 of the ES (Document 
Reference 6.1).
Ecology 
1
Fen habitats support a large amount of plants and animals some can contain over 500 
different species of plants and more than half the U.K. Species of dragon flies, and 
several thousands of other insect's species such as aquatic species. These would be 
lost if this development was to go ahead.
Response 
anonymised
APL notes this comment. Chapter 8 of the ES assesses the impact of the Project on ecology, including habitats and 
wildlife. The chapter proposed mitigation measures which includes reinstatement of habitats impacted by the 
development, as well as enhancement measures to ensure that there is a net gain of habitat. The ES also includes 
an Outline Landscape and Ecology Mitigation Strategy (ES Appendix 3.4, Document Reference 6.2), as well as an 
Outline Landscape and Ecology Mitigation Plan (ES Figure 3.6, Document Reference 6.3) that clearly set out where 
reinstatement planting and enhancement are proposed.
Ecology 
1
The easterly edge of the proposed development there is an established wildlife pond. 50 
years ago there were twice as many ponds in the countryside than there are today. 
There destruction has meant a huge decline in wild life in plants. 
Response 
anonymised
APL notes this comment. The ES includes an Outline Landscape and Ecology Mitigation Plan (ES Figure 3.6, 
Document Reference 6.3) that sets out where reinstatement and replacement habitats are located, including at least 
two attention ponds which will become green infrastructure features to mitigate the loss of wildlife ponds within the 
Project Boundary.
Ecology 
1
The northern edge for the proposed development, there is a long established badger 
sett. This set has been there a minimum of 120 years to my knowledge. As you will be 
aware it is illegal, to disturb or destroy a badger sett, under the badger act 1992. The 
proposed site is crossed over with runs to their feeding grounds.
Response 
anonymised
APL notes this comment. An ecological survey, including a badger survey, has been undertaken and the findings 
are in Chapter 8 of the ES. The Outline Landscape and Ecology Mitigation Strategy (ES Appendix 3.4, Document 
Reference 6.2) and Outline CEMP (ES Appendix 3.1, Document Reference 6.2) provide details on the additional 
mitigation measures to be implemented during the construction phase of the Project.
Electrical 
Connection
1
In respect of existing NGET and NGG infrastructure, both will require appropriate 
protection for retained apparatus including compliance with relevant standards for works 
proposed within close proximity of its apparatus; providing that the order affects NGET & 
NGG apparatus in any way.
National Grid
APL acknowledges these comments and confirms that all works will adhere to National Grid advice and best 
practice. Protective provisions have been proposed in the Draft DCO for the protection of National Grid apparatus. 
Electrical 
Connection
1
Statutory electrical safety clearances must be maintained at all times. Any proposed 
buildings must not be closer than 5.3m to the lowest conductor. National Grid 
recommends that no permanent structures are built directly beneath overhead lines
National Grid
APL acknowledges these comments and confirms that all works will adhere to National Grid advice and best 
practice. Protective provisions have been proposed in the Draft DCO for the protection of National Grid apparatus. 
Electrical 
Connection
1
If any changes in ground levels are proposed either beneath or in close proximity to our 
existing overhead lines then this would serve to reduce the safety clearances for such 
overhead lines. Safe clearances for existing overhead lines must be maintained in all 
circumstances.
National Grid
APL acknowledges these comments and confirms that all works will adhere to National Grid advice and best 
practice.
Electrical 
Connection
1
Plant, machinery, equipment, buildings or scaffolding should not encroach within 5.3 
metres of any of our high voltage conductors when those conductors are under their 
worse conditions of maximum “sag” and “swing”
National Grid
APL acknowledges these comments and confirms that all works will adhere to National Grid advice and best 
practice.
Electrical 
Connection
1
National Grid requests that only slow and low growing species of trees and shrubs are 
planted beneath and adjacent to the existing overhead line to reduce the risk of growth 
to a height which compromises statutory safety clearances.
National Grid
APL acknowledges these comments and confirms that all works will adhere to National Grid advice and best 
practice.
Electrical 
Connection
1
Drilling or excavation works should not be undertaken if they have the potential to 
disturb adversely affect the foundations or “pillars of support” of any existing tower.
National Grid
APL acknowledges these comments and confirms that all works will adhere to National Grid advice and best 
practice.
Phase 2 S42 Consultation Feedback and APL Response
12
Theme
No. of 
Comments
Summary of Comments
Consultee Body
 Response in APL ES and/or DCO Application
Electrical 
Connection
1
Ground levels above our cables must not be altered in any way. Any alterations to the 
depth of our cables will subsequently alter the rating of the circuit and can compromise 
the reliability, efficiency and safety of our electricity network and requires consultation 
with National Grid prior to any such changes in both level and construction being 
implemented. 
National Grid
APL acknowledges these comments and confirms that all works will adhere to National Grid advice and best 
practice.
Electrical 
Connection
1
Cables may cross the pipeline at perpendicular angle to the pipeline i.e. 90 degrees.
A National Grid representative shall supervise any cable crossing of a pipeline.
Clearance must be at least 600mm above or below the pipeline.
Impact protection slab should be laid between the cable and pipeline if cable crossing is 
above the pipeline. A Deed of Consent is required for any cable crossing the easement.
Where a new service is to cross over the pipeline a clearance distance of 0.6 metres 
between the crown of the pipeline and underside of the service should be maintained. If 
this cannot be achieved the service shall cross below the pipeline with a clearance 
distance of 0.6 metres.
National Grid
APL acknowledges these comments and confirms that all works will adhere to National Grid advice and best 
practice.
Electrical 
Connection
1
National Grid will need to ensure that our pipelines access is maintained during and after 
construction.
Our pipelines are normally buried to a depth cover of 1.1 metres however; actual depth 
and position must be confirmed on site by trial hole investigation under the supervision 
of a National Grid representative. Ground cover above our pipelines should not be 
reduced or increased.
If any excavations are planned within 3 metres of National Grid High Pressure Pipeline 
or, within 10 metres of an AGI (Above Ground Installation), or if any embankment or 
dredging works are proposed then the actual position and depth of the pipeline must be 
established on site in the presence of a National Grid representative. A safe working 
method agreed prior to any work taking place in order to minimise the risk of damage 
and ensure the final depth of cover does not affect the integrity of the pipeline.
Excavation works may take place unsupervised no closer than 3 metres from the 
pipeline once the actual depth and position has been has been confirmed on site under 
the supervision of a National Grid representative. Similarly, excavation with hand held 
power tools is not permitted within 1.5 metres from our apparatus and the work is 
undertaken with NG supervision and guidance.
National Grid
APL acknowledges these comments and confirms that all works will adhere to National Grid advice and best 
practice.
Electrical 
Connection/Gas 
connection
2
Two comments state that they have no gas or electricity apparatus in the vicinity of this 
site address and will not be affected by your proposed works. 
ESP Utilities/SGN
APL acknowledges this comment and considers that no further action is required to resolve this comment.
Electrical 
Connection/Gas 
connection
1
One comment states that sufficient information, in particular any specific gas 
connections, is not available to facilitate a detailed response. 
Wales and West 
Utilities Limited
APL notes this comment and clarifies that consultation with Wales and West Utilities is ongoing.
Draft protective provisions to protect Wales and West Utilities assets from the Project have been sent to Wales and 
West Utilities for comment. These are included in the draft DCO (Document Reference 3.1). 
Phase 2 S42 Consultation Feedback and APL Response
13
Theme
No. of 
Comments
Summary of Comments
Consultee Body
 Response in APL ES and/or DCO Application
Environmental 
Impact 
Assessment 
4
Four comments refer to the proposed embedded mitigation during the decommissioning 
phases of the project  to mitigate any adverse environmental effects and states that a 
Demolition Environmental Management Plan would be required to fully assess the 
decommissioning requirements at that stage, in line with relevant legislation and policy 
at that time.
City and County of 
Swansea Council
APL notes this comment and clarifies that the potential effects of the decommissioning phase are considered and 
assessed within the Environmental Statement in the relevant topic chapters. 
For the purpose of the EIA and in order to allow a decommissioning assessment to be presented in the ES, the 
assessment takes the design life of the power generation plant (25 years) as its assumption for the point in time 
when decommissioning is assessed. For the purposes of the assessment, it is assumed that the above ground 
Generating Equipment would be demolished and removed after 25 years and the Generating Equipment Site re-
instated to a similar condition as before construction. Any decommissioning phase would be likely to be of a similar 
duration to construction i.e. 22 months. 
A Decommissioning Strategy will be required to be submitted and agreed with City and County of Swansea at the 
appropriate time but prior to any decommissioning works being undertaken, this will be secured via the 
'Decommissioning Strategy' requirement in Schedule 2 of the draft DCO to be submitted with the APL DCO 
Application.  
Environmental 
Impact 
Assessment 
1
It is noted that the environmental impact assessment is ongoing and comments are 
unable to be made on assessments not yet undertaken or publicised.
Welsh Government APL notes this comment.
Gas Connection
1
The following is stated for Gas pipelines:
-Where existing roads cannot be used, construction traffic should ONLY cross the 
pipeline at previously agreed locations.
-The pipeline shall be protected, at the crossing points, by temporary rafts constructed at 
ground level. -The third party shall review ground conditions, vehicle types and crossing 
frequencies to determine the type and construction of the raft required.
-The type of raft shall be agreed with National Grid prior to installation.
-No protective measures including the installation of concrete slab protection shall be 
installed over or near to the National Grid pipeline without the prior permission of 
National Grid.
-National Grid will need to agree the material, the dimensions and method of installation 
of the proposed protective measure.
-The method of installation shall be confirmed through the submission of a formal written 
method statement from the contractor to National Grid.
-Please be aware that written permission is required before any works commence within 
the National Grid easement strip.
National Grid
APL acknowledges these comments and confirms that all works will adhere to National Grid advice and best 
practice.
Gas Connection
1
The gas pipeline and Gas Connection Route Corridor of the proposed gas fired power 
plant has the potential to adversely affect both the solar farm assets and the Distribution 
Network Operator assets and acceptable protection, mitigation and restoration 
measures will be necessary to ensure no damage or harm is done to those assets 
during construction of the pipeline and that there are no additional risks to those assets 
when the pipeline is in operation.
Response 
anonymised
APL notes this comment. Consultation regarding the protection of assets is ongoing.  
Draft protective provisions to protect assets from the Project have been sent to the consultee for comment. These 
will be included in the draft DCO (Document Reference 3.1).
Phase 2 S42 Consultation Feedback and APL Response
14
Theme
No. of 
Comments
Summary of Comments
Consultee Body
 Response in APL ES and/or DCO Application
Gas Connection
1
Para 10.7.16 2018 PEIR refers to the sand and gravel reserves within the vicinity of the 
gas connection. It is unclear whether the significance of the magnitude of the impact 
would change given that, unlike the Power Generation Plant, the gas pipeline is 
expected to be left in situ (see para 10.7.50 of the CCS s42 response) and therefore this 
sterilisation would be permanent as opposed to just for the duration of the project as 
indicated in this paragraph.
Para 9.7.61 2018 PEIR states that the reinstatement of the power generation plant to the 
existing characteristics would bring back the drainage benefits of the existing 'greenfield' 
characteristics. However, it is considered that the soil would be heavily compacted as a 
result of the development of the Project and details to overcome soil compaction as a 
result of the development would be required at the decommissioning stage.
City and County of 
Swansea Council
APL notes this comment. Para 11.7.16 (formerly 10.7.16) does indicate that the sterilisation of the sand and gravel 
reserves would be permanent however the significance of effects is only considered to be minor as the area 
sterilised by the pipeline compared to the overall size of the reserves is relatively small and there is minimal 
economic use of the reserves.  Table 11.14 (formerly Table 10.14) will be amended to include an additional row 
relating to the gas pipeline and electrical connection being left in situ following decommissioning permanently 
sterilising a thin strip of land. Given the low economic value of the reserves and the relatively small area affected  
the significance of effect is considered to be minor adverse. 
APL notes this comment and confirms the issue will be appropriately at the decommissioning stage.
General
1
One comment notes that the 2018 PEIR clearly explains the technical differences 
between the project as indicated currently and the previous 2014 PEIR. The consultee 
suggests that an annotated diagram of the proposed site layout that relates to the 
individual elements identified in the Parameters of Assessment indicated in table 3-3 
would be useful.
City and County of 
Swansea Council
APL welcomes your positive comments on the 2018 PEIR NTS and clarifies that an annotated diagram will be 
presented within the ES and ES NTS as described in Table 3-3. 
General
1
One comment suggests that the height of the fin fan coolers in Table 3-3 refers are 
incorrect.
City and County of 
Swansea Council
APL can confirm that the fin fan cooler parameters were given in error and this is amended in the ES. 
General
1
One comment questions whether a bond will be put aside for decommissioning the 
Project, and emphasises the cost to developers of decommissioning power plants.
City and County of 
Swansea Council
APL can confirm that there is no intention to provide a bond for decommissioning at this stage. This is not normally 
required for this type of project.
Phase 2 S42 Consultation Feedback and APL Response
15
Theme
No. of 
Comments
Summary of Comments
Consultee Body
 Response in APL ES and/or DCO Application
General
1
In terms of the Non-Technical Summary, I would advise that this document strikes a 
good balance between the level of information contained within it whilst also ensuring 
that the document is user-friendly. The NTS provides a significant amount of useful 
information in easy to understand language whilst also clarifying what has been covered 
in each topic area and giving an indication of the significance of these effects. It is 
appreciated that it is a difficult task to reconcile providing a summary of the 
environmental information without going into the detail contained within the 2018 PEIR in 
an easy access format but it is hoped that the final NTS follows the same approach to 
enable all participants to understand the environmental issues that have been 
considered and their significance overall in EIA terms. The list of abbreviations at the 
start is particularly useful given the amount of acronyms used throughout the document.
One point to note is the use of the term "major development" on P46 of the NTS. There 
is a statutory definition of major development contained within the Town and Country 
Planning (Development Management Procedure) (Wales) Order 2012 (as amended). 
This definition provides for schemes of 10 or more dwellings and commercial 
developments creating over 1,000m2 of floor space amongst other criteria. Within this 
context, the term major development is misleading as it was agreed that larger, more 
strategic scale developments would be considered (i.e. 40+ dwellings or more) within the 
5km area. These larger schemes are considered to have more potential for a cumulative 
impact given their scale/ characteristics than smaller developments.
An indicative site layout of the Project site itself would also prove beneficial in the NTS 
along with a plan referring to the different pieces of infrastructure on site.
City and County of 
Swansea Council
APL welcomes the positive comments on the NTS. The term 'major development' will be amended within the NTS to 
a non-statutory definition. 
Ground Conditions 
and Agricultural
1
One comment advises APL to note that dewatering for engineering works is no longer 
classed as exempt under the Water Resources Act 1991 and therefore may require an 
abstraction licence from NRW depending on the volume and duration of the dewatering 
proposed. 
Natural Resources 
Wales
APL acknowledges this comment and no actions are required.
Ground Conditions 
and Agricultural
1
One comment notes that pollution prevention measures to protect controlled waters are 
covered in the draft CEMP, including the construction and operation phases of the 
Project.
Natural Resources 
Wales
APL acknowledges this comment and no actions are required.
Ground Conditions 
and Agricultural
1
The loss of agricultural land that has been in production for hundreds of years should not 
be allowed unless food production and the development can be managed alongside 
each other. Such as land based solar panels and sheep production this development will 
mean the total loss of production permanently.
Response 
anonymised
APL notes this comment. As explained in Chapter 10 Geology, Ground Conditions and Hydrogeology (Document 
Reference 6.1), the agricultural land classification for the land within and surrounding the Project site is Grade 4 
poor quality agricultural land “with severe limitations which significantly restricts the range of crops and/or level of 
yields, mainly suited to grass with occasional arable crops.” Chapter 10 assesses the impact of the Project on 
agricultural land to be negligible, with only a relatively small area of the Project Site permanently sterilised by the 
development with the rest reinstated following construction. 
Ground Conditions 
and Agricultural
1
One comment states that mechanical treatment for handling contaminated discharges 
from the construction phase requires an Environmental Permit from NRW, and all 
discharges to controlled waters must be free from polluting matter including suspended 
sediment.
Natural Resources 
Wales
APL acknowledges this comment and can confirm that an Environmental Permit will be obtained as appropriate. 
Ground Conditions 
and Agricultural
1
One comment recommends that any stored stockpiles of material e.g. soils, are 
surrounded at their base by silt fencing to prevent contaminated run-off being generated 
during inclement weather conditions. 
Natural Resources 
Wales
APL is in agreement and can confirm that ES Chapter 3 Project and Site Description of the Environmental 
Statement has been amended accordingly. 
Phase 2 S42 Consultation Feedback and APL Response
16
Theme
No. of 
Comments
Summary of Comments
Consultee Body
 Response in APL ES and/or DCO Application
Ground Conditions 
and Agricultural
1
One comment notes that the final design will incorporate suitable mitigation on the basis 
of intrusive investigation findings to minimise disturbance with peat, and a Peat 
Management Plan is proposed. NRW recommends:
-information on the location and extent of peat is provided upfront as part of the DCO 
submission
-a peat survey should comply of a minimum, of 1 peat probe per hectare of development 
area and 1 pear probe per 10 peat probes 
-the above will show the distribution of peak across the development area so that the 
main areas of peat can be avoided by infrastructure.
Natural Resources 
Wales
APL notes this comment and confirms that an additional desk study of peat resources including NATMAP 
Soilscapes dataset (Cranfield University) and soil maps have been undertaken to better understand the location and 
spatial extent of the peat deposits. The results of this assessment have been included in the ES chapter. It is 
understood that a peat survey is recommended, this will be undertaken during ground investigations. If following the 
peat survey a reasonable amount of peat is found, a Peat Management Plan will be agreed in consultation with CCS 
and NRW. This will be secured via the corresponding requirement in schedule 2 of the DCO. 
Ground Conditions 
and Agricultural
1
Parts of the site fall within the defined Development High Risk Area. The Coal Authority 
records indicate that parts of the site have been subject to historic recorded 
underground coal mining at shallow depth and that other parts of the site are likely to 
have been subject to historic unrecorded underground coal mining at shallow depth 
associated with a thick coal outcrop.
The Coal Authority
APL notes these comments from the Coal Authority.
Ground Conditions 
and Agricultural
1
Consequently, the likely Coal Authority recommendation to the LPA would be no 
objections, subject to the imposition of an appropriate planning condition to secure site 
investigations and any necessary remedial measures. 
The Coal Authority
APL notes these comments from the Coal Authority.
Health
1
The report produced does not state the effect on human amenity? Such as finances, 
happiness, visual amenity, greenhouse gas, climate control?
Response 
anonymised
Landscape and visual effects are addressed in the 2018 PEIR Chapter 11 “Landscape and Visual”. 
 
Air Quality effects are addressed in the 2018 PEIR Chapter 6 “Air Quality”. 
 
Climate Change concerns are addressed in the 2018 PEIR Chapter 15 “Other Effects Considered”. 
 
Amenity will be discussed in the Planning Statement submitted with the DCO application. 
Health
1
We are satisfied that the approach to the Environmental Impact Statement is in line with 
current guidance and good practice. We would point out however, that where electricity 
generation and/or distribution equipment is identified, in this case for example, the 400 
kV cable from the generating plant to the substation, an assessment of potential EMF 
exposures should be included. 
Public Health 
England 
APL notes this comment and confirms that an EMF Report is included as Appendix 15.1 to the ES (Document 
Reference 6.2).
Landscape and 
Visual Impact
1
One comment is concerned about the visual impact of the potential vapour from the 
stack.
Response 
anonymised
A plume consisting mainly of water vapour may be visible from the stack of the power station but only under certain 
atmospheric conditions (cold and dry with high pressure); this is not ‘smoke’. The emissions from the stack will be 
strictly limited by Natural Resources Wales (NRW) as part of an operational environmental permit and will not have 
any significant effect on people or the environment.
Landscape and 
Visual Impact
1
One comment has concern about the visual impact of the proposed buildings on the site, 
particularly the height and diameter of the stack
Llangyfelach 
Community Council
APL notes this comment. Significant residual effects on the landscape and visual resource are localised and not 
extensive. The visual change from Llangyfelach Churchyard (Viewpoint 11) has been assessed as not significant 
(refer to the Photomontages in Document Reference 7.1).
Phase 2 S42 Consultation Feedback and APL Response
17
Theme
No. of 
Comments
Summary of Comments
Consultee Body
 Response in APL ES and/or DCO Application
Landscape and 
Visual Impact
1
Further to our recent meeting, it was suggested that additional information is added to 
the submitted photomontages to clarify exactly what is being indicated in each drawing 
and clearly point out where the Project site is in some of the viewpoints (especially the 
longer distance views where the site would be partially visible). Whilst the impact is 
Major Adverse from views 16 and 17, it is not readily apparent where the equipment and 
stack are in each viewpoint. Currently, the red outline of the Project infrastructure is not 
clear and is not used in all montages. As discussed, wireframes should be added to 
indicate landform and the outline of the infrastructure should be indicated on all 
montages, especially where the project would be visible. It is also appreciated that the 
winter shots to be added would further aid interpretation.
Further to this, the inclusion of two pylon heights (Para 11.5.7) within close proximity to 
the site are welcomed as this will help gain a better appreciation of the scale of the 
project relative to the existing infrastructure in the area. However, it would be useful if 
these two pylons are marked on a plan (I would suggest Figure 3.1 - Existing Site 
Levels) along with  their topographical datum points and this cross-referenced on the 
relative photomontages (such as view 9 where a pylon towers above the stack 
comparatively). This would enable readers to cross-reference the photomontages with 
these points and enable easier comparison/ verification.
City and County of 
Swansea Council
All comments noted and all VVMs will be updated as requested.
Landscape and 
Visual Impact
1
It was previously queried whether viewpoints from neighbouring Authorities to the east 
and west could be provided, but having viewed closer viewpoints and your clarification 
on the limited intervisibility due to intervening land form and the distances involved, it is 
agreed that these are not required and wouldn't add additional benefit to the process.
City and County of 
Swansea Council
APL welcomes this comment and no further actions are required.
Landscape and 
Visual Impact
1
One comment requests that a photomontage from Gower (Fairwood Common) is 
produced and advises that Table 4-2 is amended to reflect this, if it provides supporting 
evidence on why the Gower AONB has been scoped out.
Natural Resources 
Wales
APL confirms that Table 4-2 has been updated with a cross-reference to the Fairwood Common viewpoint 
assessment and associated VVM. 
Landscape and 
Visual Impact
1
The field boundaries of the solar farm also comprise hedgerow planting that is a 
planning requirement for the solar farm and these landscape features will need to be 
protected from damage, and if damage does occur to be replaced to British Standards at 
APL’s cost. In addition to this, any new landscape planting required as a result of the 
proposed works needs to ensure that there is no shadowing impact on the panels. There 
should also be no shadowing caused by large items of equipment, materials or 
machinery associated with the construction project or the development itself.
Response 
anonymised
APL notes this comment and ongoing consultation is being undertaken regarding the protection of assets. 
Draft protective provisions to protect assets from the Project have been sent to the consultee for comment. These 
will be included in the draft DCO (Document Reference 3.1). 
Landscape and 
Visual Impact
1
One comment notes that photographs and photomontages for the two additional 
viewpoints (Mynydd Gelliwastad and Fairwood Common) that NRW requested are in 
preparation and will be submitted as part of the DCO submission.
Natural Resources 
Wales
APL notes this comment and considers no further action to be necessary.
Landscape and 
Visual Impact
1
One comment requires further information on landscape mitigation and restoration 
proposals to include details of the proposed woodland, hedgerows, grassland and 
attenuation ponds. NRW notes that Section 3.11.55 refers to planting proposals within 
Figures 11.10-11.12, however NRW has only been provided with Figure 11.10 at this 
stage.
Natural Resources 
Wales
APL notes this comment. An integrated Outline Landscape & Ecology Mitigation Plan (ES Figure 3.6, Document 
Reference 6.3) has been prepared showing the proposed species mixes and habitat types for the mitigation habitat 
restoration and planting proposals. The plan also includes drainage proposals including the attenuation pond, 
thereby showing an integrated approach to the mitigation associated with landscape, ecology and drainage. 
Phase 2 S42 Consultation Feedback and APL Response
18
Theme
No. of 
Comments
Summary of Comments
Consultee Body
 Response in APL ES and/or DCO Application
Landscape and 
Visual Impact
1
One comment requests that further detail on the colour scheme for the development 
should be provided. We note that recessive and matt colours are proposed, however in 
some of the photomontages the stack and buildings appear pale and therefore stand out 
(however we note this might be for the benefit of the photomontages.) Colour can affect 
visibility and therefore may affect assessment results.
One comment notes colour can affect visibility and therefore may affect LVIA 
assessment results.
Natural Resources 
Wales
APL acknowledges this comment and confirms that colours of the final scheme will be subject to detail design and 
those used on the VVMs are for illustrative purposes, however, for the purposes of the assessment, it has been 
assumed that colours will be matt and recessive.
Landscape and 
Visual Impact
1
One comment states that it is not NRW’s role to advise who should be consulted. 
NRW's view (as stated within our email dated 4 December 2017 to Aecom) was that a 
viewpoint from BBNP wasn’t necessary. 
Natural Resources 
Wales
APL confirms that the ES wording has been updated to reflect that NRW do not consider a viewpoint in the BBNP 
necessary. 
Landscape and 
Visual Impact
1
One comment asks for clarity on the photographic information of all viewpoints including 
distance from the proposal, horizontal angle of view and number of frames in 
panoramas.
Natural Resources 
Wales
APL notes this comment and confirms that all VVMs have been updated to provide information including distance 
from the proposal, horizontal angle of view and number of frames in the panoramas. 
Landscape and 
Visual Impact
1
One comment requests that single frame photographs with a 40-degree horizontal angle 
of view, reproduced at A3 as extracts from panoramas which are more user friendly 
onsite.
Natural Resources 
Wales
APL notes this comment. Single frame images are provided in Document Reference 6.3.
Landscape and 
Visual Impact
1
One comment asks APL to confirm if the distances in the Landscape and Visual 
Photomontages document are correct. 
Natural Resources 
Wales
APL notes this comment and confirms that all distances between the viewpoint and a fixed point within the Project 
Site have been verified for the final submission. 
Landscape and 
Visual Impact
1
One comment states that the location of the development on all photomontages needs 
to be provided for all viewpoints and information appears to be missing from many 
viewpoints provided.
Natural Resources 
Wales
APL notes this comment and clarifies that wirelines will be provided for each set of viewpoint VVMs.
Landscape and 
Visual Impact
1
One comment advises that the proposed landscape mitigation should be proposed for 
25 years, which is a standard time length for an LEMP and that the LEMP could be 
reviewed every 5 years.
Natural Resources 
Wales
APL notes this comment and confirms that the LEMP refers to a 25 year management plan outlining the 
management operations required, with a mechanism calling for a review every 5 years. 
No Comment
1
One comment reflects that no infrastructure is within 40km of the proposed site, and as 
such the consultee does not expect to raise any objections to the proposal. However, we 
will respond to any formal consultation once it is received from the relevant body.
NATS En-Route 
(NERL) 
Safeguarding
APL acknowledges this comment and considers that no further action is required to resolve this comment.
No Comment
3
Three comments note the proposals and request that no further information is sent, 
unless there are significant changes to the proposed development
The Crown 
Estate/The Equality 
and Human Rights 
Commission/The 
Canal and River 
Trust 
APL acknowledges this comment and considers that no further action is required to resolve this comment.
No Comment
1
One consultee has no objections and provides no further other comments.
Neath Port Talbot 
County Borough 
Council
APL acknowledges that Neath Port Talbot County Borough Council has no objections and no further action is
required.
Phase 2 S42 Consultation Feedback and APL Response
19
Theme
No. of 
Comments
Summary of Comments
Consultee Body
 Response in APL ES and/or DCO Application
Noise
2
Two comments are concerned about the effect of noise (including vibration) emissions 
from the Project on their home.
Response 
anonymised
Detailed baseline sound monitoring was undertaken between 15 and 22 February 2018.  The results included a full 
range of relevant weather conditions which have been used to update the noise assessment in the ES.  Robust 
representative baseline ambient and background sound levels have been derived from the results by filtering for 
appropriate weather conditions and statistical analysis of filtered data. The results show some changes from the 
data used in the 2018 PEIR.  This is to be expected at the data used in the 2018 PEIR was based on very limited 
measurements in 2014 which were subject to the influence of both short duration sound source effects and 
inappropriate wind directions for some of the receptors.  The most notable changes are that the detailed survey 
resulted in higher representative background sound levels at NSRs 1 and 6 and lower ambient levels at NSR 4.  As 
a result the assessments are now clearer in terms of their low impacts. The BS 4142 night time assessment based 
on the results of the detailed survey demonstrate an impact better than low adverse at all receptors.  A night time 
BS 4142 assessment is therefore in the ES alongside the WHO assessment.
ES Chapter 7 'Noise and Vibration' confirms that operational noise effects at the property in question are negligible 
and not significant.
Noise
1
One comments advises that the data presented in the ES for background sound level 
(L90) is not sufficient to be able to present a typical, representative sound level and may 
not be appropriate for permitting.
Natural Resources 
Wales
APL notes this comment. Detailed baseline sound monitoring was undertaken between 15 and 22 February 2018. 
The results included a full range of relevant weather conditions and have been used to update the assessment for 
the ES. 
The data presented in the ES for the background sound level (L90) is therefore considered to be appropriate for 
permitting. 
Noise
1
One comment queries the assessment criteria used for the noise assessment and 
makes the following statements: 
- use of BS4142 at night has been omitted and WHO night noise guidelines for Europe 
has been opted to be used, which the guidelines define as the 1 year LAeq over 8 hours. 
- NRW states that it has been presented with a 10-minute sample. 
- WHO excludes sound with characteristics which is associated with industrial noise.
- NRW acknowledges APL's need to undertake additional monitoring which should 
produce a greater detailed data set for the L90 and residual sound, and once this has 
been presented they would consider whether BS4142 is more suitable for night time 
sound.
Natural Resources 
Wales
APL notes this comment. As discussed with NRW following the s42 consultation, detailed baseline sound monitoring 
was undertaken between 15 and 22 February 2018.  The results included a full range of relevant weather conditions, 
which have been used to update the noise assessment in the ES.  Robust representative baseline ambient and 
background sound levels have been derived from the results by filtering for appropriate weather conditions and 
statistical analysis of filtered data. The results show some changes from the data used in the 2018 PEIR.  This is to 
be expected at the data used in the 2018 PEIR was based on very limited measurements in 2013 which were 
subject to the influence of both short duration sound source effects and inappropriate wind directions for some of the 
receptors.  The most notable changes are that the detailed survey resulted in higher representative background 
sound levels at NSRs 1 and 6 and lower ambient levels at NSR 4.  As a result the assessments are now clearer in 
terms of their low impacts. The BS 4142 night time assessment based on the results of the detailed survey 
demonstrate an impact better than low adverse at all receptors.  A night time BS 4142 assessment is therefore in 
the ES alongside the WHO assessment. The lower residual levels (baseline ambient) measured at NSR4 also mean 
that the complex situation regarding the WHO assessment at that location, where the residual noise already 
exceeded the WHO criterion but the power station noise did not result in any increase, no longer applies. 
Phase 2 S42 Consultation Feedback and APL Response
20
Theme
No. of 
Comments
Summary of Comments
Consultee Body
 Response in APL ES and/or DCO Application
Noise
1
The noise pollution from construction and the running of the plant I don't feel has been 
fully assessed as yet, whilst we currently have a noise monitor at our property we look 
forward to being provided with the results and what the increase in noise will be. Whilst 
we note comments that the plant will not be running day in day out, the running noise will 
impact us. 
Response 
anonymised
As noted above, detailed baseline sound monitoring was undertaken between 15 and 22 February 2018.  The 
results included a full range of relevant weather conditions which have been used to update the noise assessment in 
the ES.  Robust representative baseline ambient and background sound levels have been derived from the results 
by filtering for appropriate weather conditions and statistical analysis of filtered data. The results show some 
changes from the data used in the 2018 PEIR.  This is to be expected at the data used in the 2018 PEIR was based 
on very limited measurements in 2013 which were subject to the influence of both short duration sound source 
effects and inappropriate wind directions for some of the receptors.  The most notable changes are that the detailed 
survey resulted in higher representative background sound levels at NSRs 1 and 6 and lower ambient levels at NSR 
4.  As a result the assessments are now clearer in terms of their low impacts. The BS 4142 night time assessment 
based on the results of the detailed survey demonstrate an impact better than low adverse at all receptors.  A night 
time BS 4142 assessment is therefore in the ES alongside the WHO assessment.
ES Chapter 7 'Noise and Vibration' confirms that operational noise effects at the property in question are negligible 
and not significant. 
Noise
1
One comment states that the Local Authority will be interested to see tonal information in 
relation to potential operation at night given that the predicted ambient sound levels are 
above the baseline ambient sound level.
City and County of 
Swansea Council
The exact nature of the character of the power station sound at each receptor is not known although observations of 
similar sites confirm that the intention for there to be no major tonal or impulsive characteristics is achievable.  The 
noise will not be significantly different in character from other sources contributing to the existing background and 
ambient sound.  However a correction of +3 dB has been added to allow for minor noticeable characterises. 
Noise
1
Section 3.7.1. refers to operating hours during construction but advises that a) these are 
subject to change with agreement with CCS, and b) these hours will not apply to 
commissioning and testing of the project. Firstly, details need to be put in place to notify 
local residents of any agreed changes to ensure that they are aware of the extended 
timings and their anticipated durations to reduce enquiries and complaints to the 
Council. Secondly, if certain activities are not to be subject to these timeframes, full 
definitions of what works fall within "commissioning" and "testing" are required within the 
CEMP to avoid ambiguity and complaints at a later date.
City and County of 
Swansea Council
We note your comment on construction working hours, and understand this is in agreement with CCS. The CEMP 
has been updated to include details on notices to residents, APL community liaison groups and forums. Definitions 
and clarity have also been added to the CEMP on 'commissioning' and 'testing' .
Permits and 
Consents
1
Following the publication of the Large Combustion Plant (LCP) Best Reference 
Document (BREF) in December 2017, the Best Available Techniques (BAT) conclusions 
(BATc) are now in effect and will need to be complied with as well as Annex V of the 
Industrial Emissions Directive (IED). 
Natural Resources 
Wales
APL notes this comment and APL intends to contact NRW shortly to discuss the permit application. 
Permits and 
Consents
1
There will be a need for insurance cover and indemnity agreements to ensure the 
protection of the solar assets and we would expect APL to bear ASL’s reasonable costs 
associated with researching, entering into and completing such agreements and meeting 
any necessary requirements (such as additional health and safety measures) and other 
costs (such as, potentially, increased insurance premiums). 
Response 
anonymised
APL notes this comment and can confirm that consultation regarding the protection of assets is ongoing. 
Draft protective provisions have been prepared and sent to the consultee for comment. These are included in the 
draft DCO (Document Reference 3.1). 
Permits and 
Consents
1
We advise that the proposed power station will require an environmental permit under 
the Environmental Permitting (England and Wales) Regulations 2016 (EPR).
We recommend that the applicant twin tracks the planning and permit application in 
order for all information to be considered at the same time, and for NRW to provide 
specific advice for the applicant and other stakeholders. 
Natural Resources 
Wales
APL notes this comment and can confirm that APL will twin track the DCO Application and permit application.
Permits and 
Consents
1
The proposal is for an open cycle plant, and as a peaking plant we expect energy 
efficiency to form a significant part of the environmental permit application to ensure 
operations have accounted for the aforementioned LCP BATc published last year.
Natural Resources 
Wales
APL notes this comment. Potential adverse effects will be controlled by adopting best available techniques (BAT) 
and this will be determined through the Environmental Permit application
Phase 2 S42 Consultation Feedback and APL Response
21
Theme
No. of 
Comments
Summary of Comments
Consultee Body
 Response in APL ES and/or DCO Application
Permits and 
Consents
1
One comment clarifies that the monitoring will be the responsibility of the EPR permit 
holder/operator. NRW will only be responsible for checking that the monitoring 
conducted is in compliance with the relevant permit conditions.
Natural Resources 
Wales
APL acknowledges the comment and Chapter 3 Project and Site Description has been amended accordingly.
Permits and 
consents
1
A detailed technical assessment of the air quality modelling will be undertaken by NRW 
once an EPR application has been duly made. We note that we have previously 
provided comments on the suitability and availability of weather data for the locality.
Section 6.3.24 refers to the relevant Emission Limit Values (ELVs) for the Generating 
Equipment being set out in Annex V Part 1 of the IED. We advise that it is expected that 
Annex V Part 2 of the IED will apply to this project.
Natural Resources 
Wales
APL acknowledges these comments and considers no further work to be necessary.
Policy
1
We require all new combustion power plants (that do not include CHP from the outset) to 
be CHP ready to a sufficient degree, dictated by the likely future technically viable 
opportunities.
Natural Resources 
Wales
APL notes this comment. The potential for CHP opportunities is considered in Chapter 5 Alternatives Considered of 
the ES.
Policy
1
Reference is made in para 2.10.32 to Swansea being located within the South East 
Wales Capital region in the Wales Spatial Plan. It should be noted that Swansea is 
located in the Swansea Bay Waterfront and Western Valleys Region.
In addition, para 2.10.23 will need to be updated as the LDP Examination Hearings have 
now commenced. They are likely to have been completed by the time that the full 
Environmental Statement is completed.
City and County of 
Swansea Council
APL notes this comment and paragraph 2.10.32 has been updated. APL notes that the LDP examination hearings 
are underway and it is envisaged that the published Environmental Statement will report the status of the hearings 
as current at the time.
Policy
1
On a more general note, the Community Council is aware that the land adjacent to the 
site of the proposed power station is included in the draft Local Development Plan as a 
site for a proposed residential development of approximately 750 houses. The proposed 
development of a power station adjacent to such a significant housing development is 
inherently inconsistent with a residential development.
Pontlliw & Tircoed 
Community Council
The Project is located adjacent to an existing electricity substation and is set within an area of existing energy-
related infrastructure (substation and overhead power lines).  There is an existing belt of trees which acts to 
separate and provide a visual barrier from the existing and proposed infrastructure to any proposed residential 
development.
It is noted that the draft Local Development Plan sets out aspirations for this area which include waste management 
facilities, employment as well as residential development.
Policy 
1
Within the CCC’s recommended pathway, the level of electricity generation from gas 
plants must reduce substantially in Wales before 2030 and 2050. The impact additional 
gas capacity in Wales would have on the ability to meet our statutory emissions 
reduction targets should be considered within this application
Welsh Government APL notes this comment. The Project has the ability to meet statutory emissions reduction targets. The Project is a 
new Power Generation Plant in the form of an Open Cycle Gas Turbine (OCGT) peaking power generating station, 
which is designed to operate intermittently, to provide support in plugging the gaps created by intermittent 
renewables, and boosting the overall security of supply. Paragraph 3.6.1 of the Overarching National Policy 
Statement for Energy (EN-1) recognises the ‘vital role’ that fossil fuel power stations play in providing electricity 
supplies, and states that ‘they will continue to play an important role in our energy mix as the UK makes the 
transition to a low carbon economy.’ 
Policy 
1
The CCC’s Climate Change Risk Assessment (CCRA) report summary for Wales 
provides a review of risks which may impact Wales as a result of climate change. A 
number of these risks have the potential to impact heavily on energy generation and 
infrastructure, as well as business productivity. APL should review the CCRA carefully in 
the development of their DCO application
Welsh Government APL notes this comment about Climate Change Risk Assessment and clarifies that climate change is factored into 
the EIA and considered throughout the Environmental Statement in various topic chapters. Climate resilience has  
been built into the Project design to reduce effects from climate change, namely ecology, air quality and flood risk. 
Chapter 15 Other Effects of the ES summarises how these three topics associate with climate change, with further 
details in Chapter 6 Air Quality, Chapter 8 Ecology, and Chapter 9 Water Quality and Resources. 
Policy 
1
Application for a non-wind onshore generating station in Wales under section 37 of the 
Planning Act 2008 with a capacity of below 350MW and which has yet to be accepted by 
the Secretary of State before this date cannot proceed as a Nationally Significant 
Infrastructure Project. Any application made on or after 1 April 2019 will fall to be 
determined under Town and Country Planning Act 1990, for which there are different pre-
application procedures and submission requirements.
Welsh Government APL acknowledges this comment and, as the Application is to be accepted prior to 1 April 2019, considers that no 
further action is required to resolve this comment. 
Policy 
1
We note this development is near to but not in the Welsh National Marine Plan area. 
Under the Marine and Coastal Access Act 2009 any development with potential to affect 
the Welsh National Marine Plan area has to take account of the marine plan.
Welsh Government APL acknowledges this comment and considers that no further action is required to resolve this comment. 
Phase 2 S42 Consultation Feedback and APL Response
22
Theme
No. of 
Comments
Summary of Comments
Consultee Body
 Response in APL ES and/or DCO Application
Safety 
1
Our records also indicate that a recorded mine entry (adit) is present within the planning 
boundary and that within the planning boundary there have been 4 reported hazards. In 
addition, 2 reported subsidence claims have been made within the planning boundary. 
The Coal Authority
APL notes these comments from the Coal Authority.
APL clarifies that safety investigations regarding the mine shaft have confirmed the location of the shaft and that it 
has been filled in.
Safety 
1
One comment notes that by necessity the proposal will be in close proximity to a number 
of Major Accident Hazard Pipelines located mainly to the north of the proposed site. In 
addition,  the proposed project site boundary appears to impinge on land ascribed to the 
Felindre Gas Compressor Station which already has a 3-zone map for land-use planning 
purposes. 
Health and Safety 
Executive 
APL acknowledges this comment. The Project’s vulnerability to risk of major accidents and disasters is considered 
in Chapter 15 Other Effects. No further action is required to resolve this comment.
Safety 
1
Should the project progress, we would expect notification under the Pipelines Safety 
Regulations and, depending upon whom the pipeline operator is, a Gas Safety 
(Management) Regulations safety case may be required.
Health and Safety 
Executive 
APL acknowledges this comment.
Safety 
1
The developer is advised to consider whether storage of hazardous substances is 
involved and, if so, whether Hazardous Substances Consent would be required.
Health and Safety 
Executive 
APL confirms that there are no proposals to store any hazardous substances at the Project Site.
Safety 
1
The presence on, over or above land of certain hazardous substances, at or above set 
threshold quantities (Controlled Quantities), may require Hazardous Substances 
Consent (HSC) under the Planning (Hazardous Substances) Act 1990 as amended. The 
substances, alone or when aggregated with others, for which HSC is required, and the 
associated Controlled Quantities, are set out in The Planning (Hazardous Substances) 
Regulations 1992 as amended by The Planning (Hazardous Substances) (Amendment) 
(England) Regulations 2009 and 2010.
Health and Safety 
Executive 
APL confirms that there are no proposals to store any hazardous substances at the Project Site.
Safety 
1
Hazardous Substances Consent would be required if the site is intending to store or use 
any of the Named Hazardous Substances or Categories of Substances and 
Preparations at or above the controlled quantities set out in schedule 1 of these 
Regulations.
Health and Safety 
Executive 
APL confirms that there are no proposals to store any hazardous substances at the Project Site.
Safety 
1
The proposed Abergelli Power Project development does not impinge on the separation 
distances of any explosives licensed site in the vicinity of the application.
Health and Safety 
Executive 
APL notes this comment. 
Safety 
1
In respect of waste management, the applicant should take account of and adhere to 
relevant health and safety requirements. Particular attention should be paid in respect of 
risks created from historical landfill sites.
Health and Safety 
Executive 
APL notes this comment. Waste management is discussed in the Outline CEMP ES Appendix 3.1 (Document 
Reference 6.2).
Safety 
1
The site should be protected by a security fence that is at least 2.4m high, and 
manufactured of weld mesh or expanded metal. It should meet Secured by Design 
standards and specifications. 
South Wales Police
APL notes these comments and confirms that all issues raised by South Wales Police will be considered during the 
design of security arrangements
Safety 
1
The whole of the site, especially the perimeter and main entrances must be protected by 
a monitored CCTV system. It should be capable of producing quality evidential imagery 
and also be capable of detecting movement around the site whilst providing recognition 
of persons. 
South Wales Police
APL notes these comments and confirms that all issues raised by South Wales Police will be considered during the 
design of security arrangements
Safety 
1
Adequate lighting should be installed throughout the site to cover vehicle and pedestrian 
areas during the hours of darkness. A scheme of work and lux plan should be provided 
and the lighting must complement and enhance any CCTV cameras operating on site.
South Wales Police
APL notes these comments and confirms that all issues raised by South Wales Police will be considered during the 
design of security arrangements
Safety 
1
Access to the roof of any buildings must be prevented or made difficult. Any features 
that assist climbing must be designed out. Access points to the roofs must be gated, the 
gates having access control fitted to prevent unlawful persons accessing.
South Wales Police
APL notes these comments and confirms that all issues raised by South Wales Police will be considered during the 
design of security arrangements
Safety 
1
All buildings that are not occupied 24 hours per day or contain critical equipment or 
items of significant value should be protected by a monitored silent intruder alarm 
system. The system installed should meet the relevant British Standards for alarm 
installations.
South Wales Police
APL notes these comments and confirms that all issues raised by South Wales Police will be considered during the 
design of security arrangements
Phase 2 S42 Consultation Feedback and APL Response
23
Theme
No. of 
Comments
Summary of Comments
Consultee Body
 Response in APL ES and/or DCO Application
Safety 
1
Both vehicle and pedestrian access onto site must be controlled. Suitable access control 
facilities must be put in place for both vehicles and pedestrians that meet Secured by 
Design standards and specifications.
South Wales Police
APL notes these comments and confirms that all issues raised by South Wales Police will be considered during the 
design of security arrangements
Safety 
1
External entrance doors, and doors protecting areas that contain critical equipment or 
other items of significant value, should meet the security standard LPS1175 SR2 or the 
equivalent standard.
South Wales Police
APL notes these comments and confirms that all issues raised by South Wales Police will be considered during the 
design of security arrangements
Safety 
1
Any trees should have no foliage or branches below 2 metres from the ground, and must 
not interfere with lighting or CCTV. In addition, trees must not be located adjacent to 
buildings or any perimeter security.
South Wales Police
APL notes these comments and confirms that all issues raised by South Wales Police will be considered during the 
design of security arrangements
Safety 
1
Swansea Airport are to be consulted should there be an impact to the safeguarding 
area, in which case lighting of the landmark building may be required
Civil Aviation 
Authority
APL acknowledges these comments on landmark lighting. CCS safeguard zone mapping has been examined and it 
has been confirmed that the Project is located outside of the relevant safeguarding zone for Swansea Airport. 
Nevertheless, as a courtesy, details about the Project were shared with Swansea Airport for information purposes.
Safety 
1
If the structure constitutes an 'aerodrome obstruction' it is the aerodrome operator that 
will review the lighting requirement (part of the safeguarding process). 
Civil Aviation 
Authority
APL acknowledges these comments on aviation obstruction lighting.
Safety 
1
In the UK, the need for aviation obstruction lighting on 'tall' structures depends in the first 
instance upon any particular structure's location in relationship to an aerodrome.  If the 
structure constitutes an 'aerodrome obstruction' it is the aerodrome operator that will 
review the lighting requirement (part of the safeguarding process).  For civil aerodromes, 
they will, in general terms, follow the requirements of CAP 168 - Licensing of 
Aerodromes. Chapter 4 refers to obstacles and obstacle lighting (I have included an 
extract from CAP168).  
Article 222 of the UK Air Navigation Order applies.  Article 222 requires that for en-route 
obstructions (i.e. away from aerodromes) lighting only becomes legally mandated for 
structures of a height of 150m or more above ground level.  
Typically, structures less than 150m above ground level and away from the immediate 
vicinity of an aerodrome are not routinely lit for civil aviation purposes.  However, 
structures of lesser high might need aviation obstruction lighting if, by virtue of their 
location and nature, they are considered a significant navigational hazard.
Note that if the structure is to be 150m or higher, the lighting specification set out in 
Article 222 becomes a statutory requirement.  In this latter case, any proposal to seek a 
lighting specification at odds with Article 222 should involve the CAA.
Civil Aviation 
Authority
APL acknowledges these comments on aviation obstruction lighting. 
Safety 
1
Due to the unique nature of operations in respect of altitudes and potentially unusual 
landing sites, it would be sensible for you to establish the related viewpoints of local 
emergency services Air Support Units through the National Police Air Service (NPAS) 
organisation
Civil Aviation 
Authority
APL acknowledges this comment.  As recommended by the CAA, APL shared information about the Project with 
both the National Police Air Service (NPAS) and Wales Air Ambulance.
Safety 
1
The proposal should be brought to the attention of the Safeguarding Department within 
the MoD's Defence Infrastructure Organisation
Civil Aviation 
Authority
APL notes this comment and confirms that the MoD has been consulted.
Safety 
1
Fire hazards are abundant, water, gas, electricity all in such close proximity to each 
other and local residents? Lightening posses a real threat, I cannot locate comment in 
the report regards to the fire risk the site proposes to the area which is also surrounded 
by grassland
Response 
anonymised
APL notes this comment and clarifies that major accidents and abnormal operations, including gas leaks, fires and 
explosions are considered in Chapter 15 Other Effects in the ES. Operational maintenance is also described in 
detail in Chapter 3 Project Site and Description (Document Reference 6.1).
APL also notes that gas-fired power stations in the UK have an excellent safety record, and we do not consider 
there to be any issues of concern with our site and the neighbouring energy facilities. Drax Power Station, Abergelli 
Power owner’s existing power plant, has a better-than-average safety record among other coal, gas and biomass 
power stations.
Phase 2 S42 Consultation Feedback and APL Response
24
Theme
No. of 
Comments
Summary of Comments
Consultee Body
 Response in APL ES and/or DCO Application
Safety 
1
Mid and West Wales Fire and Rescue Service expects APL to contact again with a view 
of holding some dialogue on the following:
-Impact of construction traffic on the local road network which may affect the ability of 
the Fire and Rescue Service to service the local community
-The security arrangements for the site and whether it will be considered to be of critical 
national infrastructure status
-The proximity to the M4 motorway and other local receptors and the impact of fire or 
release from the site. A downwind cordon of up to 800m may be required
-The provision of fire fighting equipment and other relevant fixed firefighting installations
-The type and coverage of gas monitoring equipment
-Staffing requirements and human presence on the site
-The means by which the site will be accessed out of hours, on weekends and public 
holidays
-Availability of water for firefighting and release mitigation and the details of any hydrant 
system that will be installed during construction and following commission
-Assurance that the road network provided to serve the site will be sufficient to 
accommodate fire and rescue service vehicles of up to 26 tonnes and 8m in length
-AGI - except that a similar arrangement to those indicated will be applied
-Arrangements will be made to ensure that any water run-off from the site can be 
directed in such a way as to not affect any vulnerable receptors
Mid and West 
Wales Fire and 
Rescue 
APL notes this comment and will engage with the Fire and Reuse Service to close out these points until the detailed 
design stage.
Site Selection
1
We are not in principally objecting to this development as we will always need an 
electrical generation. It is the location we are objecting to. When there is a far more 
suitable site approximately 800meters to the North West which could be classed as a 
brown field site because of its industrial past i.e. coal mining and recent land fill. A 
second alternative site lies approximately 400m to the west alongside the existing 
development of the gas pumping station.
Response 
anonymised
APL notes this comment about site selection. The suggested site approximately 400 m west of the proposed 
Generating Equipment Site would not be suitable due to the National Transmission System gas pipelines that enter 
Felindre Gas Compressor Station on the western side of the National Grid compound. Figure 3.4 of the ES 
(Document Reference 6.3) shows the existing utilities (including underground gas pipelines, overhead and 
underground electricity cables and telecommunication lines) within the Project Site area. The proposed site for the 
Abergelli Power Project has been carefully considered and selected after an extensive site selection process. The 
Project Site was considered suitable for the following main reasons: 
- It is in close proximity to a suitable electrical connection point;
- It is in close proximity to a suitable gas connection point;
- The Project Site does not include any nationally important environmental designations;
- The land available is of an adequate size to accommodate the Power Generation Plant, Gas Connection and 
Electrical Connection;
- The Project site is largely situated on poor quality agricultural land (improved grassland classified as Grade 4 
agricultural land);
- It is in close proximity to similar industrial developments including the Felindre Gas Compressor Station and 
Swansea North Substation;
- The surrounding network is within an area of net electricity import; and
- It is in close proximity to a well-developed road network to the Project Site. 
Socio-economics
1
The Community Council are of the opinion, that should the DCO be approved, the size & 
height, especially of the stack of this proposed power station would have a substantial & 
damaging effect on the marketability of the aforementioned sites.  The Community 
Council consider the proposed Residential use & existing Business Park to be more 
appropriate for their area, especially if the Swansea Barrage scheme is given the go-
ahead. 
Llangyfelach 
Community Council
APL notes this comment and has worked, through the design and assessment process, to minimise intrusion by 
reducing the footprint of the Project and limiting the number of stacks to one. APL also proposes that the electrical 
connection to the nearby substation is underground rather than a more traditional overhead line connection.  It is 
considered that a project of this nature, situated close to significant existing energy-related infrastructure (including 
the substation and overhead powerlines), which assist in achieving these design efficiencies, is appropriately 
designed and located.
Phase 2 S42 Consultation Feedback and APL Response
25
Theme
No. of 
Comments
Summary of Comments
Consultee Body
 Response in APL ES and/or DCO Application
Socio-economics
1
This should not be at the expense of existing residents by retrospectively damaging our 
carefully planned long term financial positions. We feel that the construction and running 
of the station would have a very damaging impact on local house prices, tourism and the 
future of Felindre being a desirable place to live. 
Response 
anonymised
APL notes this comment. ES Chapter 14 "Socio-economics" discusses likely effects on tourism and business as a 
result of the Project. As explained, a tourism business survey was carried out during November and December in 
2014. This has not been repeated for this assessment as baseline assessment shows the visitor economy has not 
materially changed since 2014.  The 2014 business survey findings are therefore considered to remain valid for this 
assessment. In terms of impact, the vast majority of respondents felt that the Project would have no impact on 
business performance. Some businesses felt that they would benefit at the construction phase through related 
demand for accommodation, food and drink, and other services.  Only one respondent predicted an adverse impact 
on business performance based mainly on perceived adverse visual impact.
In response to concerns about house prices, APL advises that loss of  property value is not a material consideration 
in the planning process and is therefore not something that is covered in an EIA. Evidence would need to be 
provided to demonstrate that the proposed development would have an adverse impact on the property value. APL 
provided additional explanation to explain the circumstances in which parties my by entitled to claim compensation 
due to impacts from the proposed development, whilst noting that parties should, in any event, seek independent 
legal advice if they believe they are affected by the Project. 
Socio-economics
1
Para 14.8.35 relates to Construction and Decommissioning and states that the adoption 
of the embedded mitigation in the CEMP would ensure no tourism/ recreation receptors 
are affected significantly during construction (no reference to decommissioning).
City and County of 
Swansea Council
Text has been amended at ES Para. 14.8.35 and at other sections in tourism and recreation impact analysis to 
clarify the position. A Decommissioning Plan  as detailed in 'Decommissioning Strategy', paragraph 18 (1) Schedule 
2 of the DCO Requirements will be required to be submitted and agreed with City and County of Swansea at the 
appropriate time but prior to any decommissioning works being undertaken.                                     
                                                                                                                                                                                                   
Socio-economics
1
Table 14.30 (Cumulative Projects) provides the construction cost of various different 
projects, but it is not clear how these have been valued given that the site at Llewelyn 
Road (for up to 200 homes) has been valued at £23.4m whilst the site at Pare Ceirw (for 
up to 300 homes) is valued at £5.9m and the Strategic Sites at Llangyfelach (up to 1,950 
dwellings) and Garden Village (650) are only £16.4m and £11.8m respectively.
City and County of 
Swansea Council
Table 14.30 (Cumulative Projects) has been amended. Another column has been added to clarify the total 
construction value of each project (where possible) and annual construction cost. Annual construction cost has been 
derived using build period information (where programme information is available). If not available, unit-based 
construction cost information has been used which is deemed to be the worst case scenario.
Socio-economics
1
Our property is currently up for sale, it is an executive property, and we are extremely 
worried about the depreciation in value if we were to have this power station next door. 
Response 
anonymised
APL notes this comment. Loss of  property value is not a material consideration in the planning process and is 
therefore not something that is covered in an EIA. Evidence would need to be provided to demonstrate that the 
proposed development would have an adverse impact on the property value.
APL provided additional explanation to explain the circumstances in which parties my by entitled to claim 
compensation due to impacts from the proposed development, whilst noting that parties should, in any event, seek 
independent legal advice if they believe they are affected by the Project. 
Transport
1
The access route which you wish to use is also access to many properties, this could 
cause bad congestion. This road narrows badly in certain parts, as we travel this way 
several times a week. 
Response 
anonymised
The proposed Access Road has been selected following previous consultation in 2014 and 2015. In 2014, two 
potential access routes were considered to reach the Generating Equipment Site as discussed in Chapter 5 
“Alternatives” of the ES. Feedback from the local authority, local highways authority and local residents indicated 
that the preference would be to avoid use of the Rhyd-y-Pandy Road and instead route via the B4489. Therefore, 
the chosen route to site is from Junction 46 of the M4, north along the B4489, then along the existing access to the 
National Grid compound which houses the Felindre Gas Compressor Station and Swansea North Substation. The 
selected access route will result in a lower adverse impact on traffic by using a shorter, more direct route and would 
avoid the roads leading to Morriston Hospital. 
ES Chapter 12 Traffic and Transport considers the impacts of traffic generating by the Project. The assessment 
states that there will be some temporary adverse effects in relation to increased HGV movements during the 
construction period. A Construction Traffic Management Plan is submitted as Appendix 3.3 to the ES Document 
Reference 6.2) setting out measures to manage construction traffic and minimise adverse impacts. The traffic and 
transport assessment concludes that there will be no adverse effects during operation of the Project. 
Phase 2 S42 Consultation Feedback and APL Response
26
Theme
No. of 
Comments
Summary of Comments
Consultee Body
 Response in APL ES and/or DCO Application
Transport
1
Any proposals that include the installation of cables under or over the railway, any 
methods of electricity transmissions across Network Rail’s land, or any access rights, 
temporary or otherwise will require the necessary property agreements to be entered 
into with our Easements and Wayleaves team
Network Rail
APL notes this comment and considers that no further action is necessary. 
Transport
1
If there is any impact upon rail infrastructure, this must be examined and addressed 
within Abergelli Power Limited’s Environmental Statement.
Network Rail
APL notes this comment. The Network Rail Asset Protection Team have  been consulted and confirmed that they 
have no objections to the proposed route.
Transport
1
Network Rail would have strong concerns if, during the construction or operation of the 
power generation plant, abnormal loads would use routes that include Network Rail’s 
assets (e.g. level crossings, bridges etc.) and would advise that contact is made with 
Network Rail’s Asset Protection Engineers
Network Rail
APL notes this comment. The Network Rail Asset Protection Team have  been consulted and confirmed that they 
have no objections to the proposed route.
Transport
1
The solar farm (and I believe also the DNO) needs to have continuous 24-hour access 
to this private road and the farm track to the solar fields, and this includes for HGV’s 
carrying heavy loads that may occasionally be required. The track and road therefore 
need to be protected from damage and any damage to the road and track will need to be 
made good to an acceptable standard. 
Particular care will also be required when excavating around the track, both to ensure 
that the solar farm cables are effectively protected (both during and after construction) 
and to protect access to the solar farm.
Response 
anonymised
APL notes this comment and can confirm that consultation regarding the protection of assets is ongoing. 
Draft protective provisions have been prepared and sent to the consultee for comment. These are included in the 
draft DCO (Document Reference 3.1). 
Transport
1
As Junction 46 is affected with heavy traffic build-up due to an increase of vehicles 
during rush hour and the Hospital shift change, it would be prudent to suggest to the 
applicant that they should seek to programme their deliveries in their Construction 
Traffic Management Plan, to arrive outside the peak hours on the motorway.
Welsh Government APL notes this comment and can clarify that the Construction Travel Management Plan (CTMP) (Appendix 3.3, 
Document Reference 6.2) will seek to minimise deliveries at peak hours. Abnormal loads will be delivered outside 
peak hours. 
Transport
1
Royal Mail operations are highly sensitive to any changes in the capacity of Junction 46 
of the M4 Motorway.
Royal Mail
APL confirms that the transport assessment considers the impact on major road users. A draft Construction Traffic 
Management Plan (CTMP) is contained in Appendix 3.3 and Outline Construction Environmental Management Plan 
(CEMP) has been submitted (Appendix 3.1 in Document Reference 6.2).
Transport
1
Whilst it is noted that a CTMP will be prepared and submitted with the DCO application, 
the documents do not acknowledge the need to ensure that major road users such as 
Royal Mail are not disrupted though full advance consultation by the applicant at the 
appropriate time in the development process. Royal Mail wish to be consulted on the 
future submissions. 
Royal Mail
APL confirms that the transport assessment considers the impact on major road users. A draft Construction Traffic 
Management Plan (CTMP) is contained in Appendix 3.3 and Outline Construction Environmental Management Plan 
(CEMP) has been submitted (Appendix 3.1 in Document Reference 6.2).
Transport
1
The access road has now been moved, which is a real concern. The traffic flow 
especially at certain times of the day is somewhat busy and the  junction for the M4 
currently sees daily queues, over hanging trees will also cause an issue for high loads, 
the width of Llangyfelach road for 2 lorry's passing would not be possible, and the road 
see many cyclists, pedestrians and horse Back riders to which increased large vehicles 
pose a real threat to all.
Response 
anonymised
APL notes this comment about traffic flows and access road.  The Access Road has not been moved. The proposed 
Access Road has been selected following previous consultation in 2014 and 2015. In 2014, two potential access 
routes were considered to reach the Generating Equipment Site as discussed in Chapter 5 “Alternatives” of the ES. 
Feedback from the local authority, local highways authority and local residents indicated that the preference would 
be to avoid use of the Rhyd-y-Pandy Road and instead route via the B4489. Therefore, the chosen route to site is 
from Junction 46 of the M4, north along the B4489, then along the existing access to the National Grid compound 
which houses the Felindre Gas Compressor Station and Swansea North Substation. The selected access route will 
result in a lower adverse impact on traffic by using a
shorter, more direct route and would avoid the roads leading to Morriston Hospital. 
ES Chapter 12 Traffic considers the impacts of traffic generating by the Project. The assessment confirms that there 
will be some temporary adverse effects in relation to increased HGV movements during the construction period. An 
Outline CTMP (ES Appendix 3.3, Document Reference 6.2) provides measures to manage construction traffic and 
minimise adverse impacts. The traffic and transport assessment concludes that there will be no adverse effects 
during operation of the Project. 
Transport
1
Table 16.1 (List of Adverse Residual Impacts) refers incorrectly to Link 1 in the Traffic, 
Transport and Access discipline rather than Link 2 (p.16-7).
City and County of 
Swansea Council
APL confirms that this error has been rectified in the final ES.
Phase 2 S42 Consultation Feedback and APL Response
27
Theme
No. of 
Comments
Summary of Comments
Consultee Body
 Response in APL ES and/or DCO Application
Waste
1
Dust suppression and waste disposal measures in working and storage areas and for 
trucks carrying loose material may be necessary to ensure that windblown dust, soil, 
packaging and detritus are not blown on to on the solar fields and panels as this will 
affect the performance of the panels.
Response 
anonymised
APL notes this comment regarding dust and waste. The Construction Environmental Management Plan (Appendix 
3.1, Document Reference 6.2)  provides details on dust protection measures and waste management to be 
implemented during the construction phase. 
Water Quality
1
One comment states refers to hydrological protection measures and advises that any 
stored stockpiles of material e.g. soils, are surrounded at their base by silt fencing to 
prevent contaminated run-off being generated during inclement weather conditions.
Natural Resources 
Wales
APL acknowledges this and Chapter 3 Project and Site Description of the Environmental Statement has been 
amended.
Water Quality
1
One comment suggests that it would be prudent to conduct periodic manual/visual 
checks and maintenance, which should be incorporated into the relevant management 
plan in respect of oil separators
Natural Resources 
Wales
APL acknowledges this and Chapter 3 Project and Site Description of the Environmental Statement has been 
amended.
Water Quality
1
One comment has concerns about contamination of a nearby by water supply during the 
construction and maintenance phases of the development.
Response 
anonymised
Measures will be in place during the construction and operation of the Abergelli Project to ensure that silt and other 
deposits do not contaminate private water supplies. 
Chapter 3, section 3.11 discusses embedded mitigation measures in relation to drainage. The Outline Construction 
Environment Management Plan (ES Appendix 3.1) includes Sections 4.4 Water Management Plan which sets out 
construction practices to safeguard water resources and quality, and 4.5 Pollution Prevention Management Plan 
which sets out measures to minimise the risk of pollution to ground and surface water.
Water Quality
1
One comment advises that air quality assessment should be appropriate to consider 
possible effects to the Lower Lliw Reservoir from deposition and affected rainfall.
Dwr Cymru Welsh 
Water
APL notes the comment. The potential impact on the Lower Lliw Reservoir has been assessed in Chapter 9 (Water 
Quality and Resources).
Water Quality
1
One comment states that the Project intends to “consolidate the Generating Equipment 
Site to the north of the Water Main”, and it appears that the consultation documents 
does not include any detailed layouts at this stage.
Dwr Cymru Welsh 
Water
APL notes this comment. The DCO Application submission includes Figure 2.6 Indicative Site Layout which shows 
that the Generating Equipment is located north of the water main. 
Water Quality
1
One comment suggests that straw bales are not an effective form of silt control. The use 
of sediments or similarly commercially available products should be investigated for this 
development.
Natural Resources 
Wales
APL notes this comment and Chapter 3 Project and Site Description of the Environmental Statement has been 
amended accordingly.
Water Quality
1
Comment suggests that once the foul water system and disposal method is agreed, the 
consultee advises that APL consults NRW as an EPR permit may be required for the 
discharge. 
Natural Resources 
Wales
APL will contact NRW to discuss the agreed foul water system and disposal method and the requirement for an 
Environmental Permit.
Water Quality
1
One comment states that the proposed oily water drainage system should also be 
compliant with the Oil Storage Regulations 2016 and Pollution Prevention Guidance 3: 
Use and design of oil separators in surface water drainage systems.
Natural Resources 
Wales
APL notes the comment and Chapter 3 Project and Site Description of the Environmental Statement has been 
amended accordingly. 
Water Quality
1
One comment advises that emergency cut-off via a penstock valve should be 
incorporated in the event of having to contain contaminated run-off, as well as the 
proposed emergency overflow.
Natural Resources 
Wales
APL notes this comment, which will be confirmed during detailed design. The priority for the emergency overflow will 
be to safeguard the Generating Equipment Site. 
Water Quality
1
One comment suggests that it would be prudent to conduct periodic manual/visual 
checks and maintenance, which should be incorporated into the relevant management 
plan in this respect.
Natural Resources 
Wales
APL notes the comment. Operation and maintenance is discussed in Section 3.9 of Chapter 3 of the ES (Document 
Reference 6.1).
Water Quality
1
One comment notes that this land is proposed for ecological mitigation however no 
further detail has yet been provided on this.  NRW advises that  if these proposals 
include raising of land within the flood zone (C2), further flood risk assessment may be 
required and any works on the River Llan may also require a Flood Risk Activity Permit 
from NRW.
Natural Resources 
Wales
APL notes the comment. Acknowledged. APL can confirm that there will be no built equipment in this area and that 
the area known locally as the "teardrop" will be primarily and only for Ecological Mitigation. As such no Flood Risk 
Activity Permit will be required. 
Water Quality
1
One comment notes the submission of the Water Framework Directive (WFD) screening 
assessment for this project. and agrees with its conclusion that the project will not have 
a significant adverse effect on the River Llan waterbody from a WFD perspective, and 
that no further assessments are required.
Natural Resources 
Wales
APL notes this comment and agrees that no further action is required.
Phase 2 S42 Consultation Feedback and APL Response
28
Theme
No. of 
Comments
Summary of Comments
Consultee Body
 Response in APL ES and/or DCO Application
Water Quality
1
One comment suggests that the APL should consider the proposed surface water 
attenuation pond(s) to be potentially dual use, i.e. a sustainable drainage solution, which 
also doubles as green infrastructure, whereby the water could be reused/recycled for fire-
fighting purposes in the event of an emergency and negate the need for an additional 
fire water storage tank.
Natural Resources 
Wales
APL notes the comment and clarifies that green infrastructure attenuation pond(s) would not suitable to double up as 
fire water storage due the health and safety implications and would not conform to industrial standards or 
regulations. 
Water Quality
1
One comment advises that a statement about the water quality improving overtime as 
sediments settle  and pollutants are dispersed/diluted/treated by natural processes is not 
relied upon, as appropriate mitigation in response to any adverse impact during 
construction.
Natural Resources 
Wales
APL clarified that Para 9.7.6 of the 2018 PEIR, as stated, is not the primary mitigation to be employed, and is used 
only for reference to described what would happen without mitigation as detailed in the CEMP.
Water Quality
1
One comment is satisfied that the draft CEMP, Surface Water and Environmental 
Management Plans incorporate matters raised for consideration in response to the 
previous 2018 PEIR consultation. NRW notes that that these documents will be 
developed further when more specific details of the development emerge in the coming 
stages.
Natural Resources 
Wales
APL acknowledges this comment and confirms that this will be part of detailed design. 
Water Quality
1
The Drainage Strategy and Flood Consequences Assessment (FCA) are broadly 
acceptable. In regards to section 1.1.7 of the FCA, this is correct, the lifetime of the 
development is taken to be 25 years which takes us to early 2050's and therefore 
complies with Table 7-1 for peak river flows. Table 7-2 further expands this by looking at 
peak rainfall intensity where the anticipated change by the 2050's is 20%, again this is 
an acceptable approach and complies with the latest guidance available on surface 
water design parameters. It is noted that the 20% figure is based on figures which run to 
2069 (based on 7.2.2 and 7.3.2 of the FCA) which would comprise a 47 year lifetime for 
the development (assuming it is completed in 2022).
 
However, it is noted that the Power Station could be re-powered on more than one 
occasion and the WG Policy Clarification Letter - Guidance on Climate Change 
Allowance for Planning Purposes (CL-03-16) - indicates that a lifetime of 75 years should 
be assumed for non-residential development. It is therefore considered that an 
allowance of 30% should be added on for climate change pursuant to this guidance. 
Given that the overall lifetime of the development is not known, it would be considered 
prudent to plan for the future to ensure any attenuation is appropriately sized.
In section 8.3.4 the report indicates that the site surface water drainage system will be 
designed to prevent flooding of the project-t site for events up to and including 1 in 30 
year and maintain existing runoff rates for events from 1 in 30 year up to and including 1 
in 100 year including an appropriate allowance for climate change, this is an acceptable 
approach. To enable such an approach, sufficient information will be needed showing 
where and how surface water will be stored across the site to maintain existing run-off 
rates while not placing both the site itself and adjacent third party land at risk.
City and County of 
Swansea Council
The ES has been updated to clarify that the operational life of the Power Station is 25 years only. From previous 
correspondence with CCS (18/10/2017)  and this consultation response it is understood that the assessment 
undertaken using the 20% climate change allowances is acceptable for an operational life of 25 years. It is therefore 
considered there are no requirements to update the climate change allowance for this application.   
Plans of the proposed surface water drainage network are detailed in the DCO Application, in compliance with runoff 
capacity requirements set out in the Drainage Strategy (Appendix 9.1 of Document Reference 6.2) and secured by 
'Surface and foul water drainage' requirement in Schedule 2 of the DCO to be submitted with the APL DCO 
Application. 
Detailed plans of the proposed watercourse crossings are supplied as part of the DCO application to validate the 
conclusions of the FCA (Appendix 9.1).
An assessment for the requirement of trash screens will be carried out for access road crossings during the detailed 
design phase of the project, and a written surface and foul water drainage plan have been submitted to and 
approved by CCS as secured by 'Surface and foul water drainage', requirement. 
As noted in ES Chapter 9, the run off rate calculations have been updated using the FEH2013 rainfall parameters 
and the attenuation storage requirements for the Project Site will be confirmed. 
Phase 2 S42 Consultation Feedback and APL Response
29
Theme
No. of 
Comments
Summary of Comments
Consultee Body
 Response in APL ES and/or DCO Application
Water Quality
1
Continued...
We understand from previous discussions and the FCA/DS document that several on 
site streams will be altered to enable the development and it's access, detailed plans will 
be needed showing the diversionary routes, gradients, cross sections, any retaining 
structures and crossings supported by appropriate levels of assessment to demonstrate 
that the changes will not affect third party land or the development itself.
Section 8.2.20 mentions that for access roads twin culvert arrangements and/or trash 
screens are implemented, we recommend that a robust assessment is carried out on the 
need for trash screens as in our experience they cause more issues that they solve.
In regards to run-off rates, the approach used is acceptable i.e. IOH124, but when it 
comes to assessment of the chosen system we would be looking for FEH2013 rainfall 
parameters to be used in preference to FSR or earlier versions of FEH in line with the 
latest NRW guidance from 2016.
City and County of 
Swansea Council
Water Quality 
1
One comment advises that further information should be provided on the in-combination 
effect of foul water drainage from the Project and other potential developments. 
Natural Resources 
Wales
APL acknowledges this comment and provided clarification regarding foul water drainage. Namely, there will be a 
maximum of 2 toilets on site with approximately 3 shifts of 5 workers in a 24 hour period. As there is no main 
drainage available to the Project, preference is to install a Package Treatment Plant (as described in Chapter 3 of 
the ES (Document Reference 6.1). Therefore the discharge from the Project site during operation will be negligible 
and highly unlikely to cause significant effects to a Natura 2000 site. During construction temporary package 
treatment or mobile provision of toilets will be utilised, and therefore the conclusions within the NSER remain valid.  
Water Quality and 
Ground Conditions
1
One comment accepts that the pollution control measures contained within the project 
proposals, if implemented as designed should mean that there will be no significant 
impacts on the water environment as a result of pollution from both construction and 
operation of the facility.
Natural Resources 
Wales
APL notes this comment and agrees that no further action is required.
Water Quality and 
Ground Conditions
1
Drainage will also need to be considered to ensure that stockpiling, landform compaction 
and modifications and drainage of hardstandings do not drain towards the solar fields 
and that drainage ditches are properly maintained.
Response 
anonymised
APL acknowledges this comment regarding earthworks and drainage ditches.
Phase 2 S42 Consultation Feedback and APL Response
30
