Modern Slavery Statement  
2020
Drax Group plc
Modern Slavery Statement 2020
2
Introduction
We believe in doing the right thing
In this, our fifth Modern Slavery Statement, we outline the 
progress we’ve made in 2020 and our planned improvements 
for 2021. 
We’re making this Statement for the financial year ending 
December 2020 and according to the requirements of section 
54, part 6, of the Modern Slavery Act 2015.  
Due to the Government's ongoing review of slavery reporting 
rules, we may need to extend our reporting period to 31 March 
2021. 
This Statement applies to all companies within the Drax Group 
(“Drax”) that are required to publish a Statement, as listed in the 
‘statement approval’ section. 
Drax Biomass
Drax Energy
Drax Group
Haven Power
Opus Energy 
Visit Cruachan
For further information on Drax and our earlier  
Modern Slavery Statements, please see our websites: 
Modern Slavery Statement 2020
3
Modern Slavery Statement 2020
Modern Slavery Statement 2020
4
5
Our integrated flexible and renewable value chain.
Organisational structure
Customers
Our Customers business is principally focused 
on renewable electricity sales to industrial and 
corporate customers. The business also offers  
 
 
non-generation system support and energy 
management services in addition to providing 
a route to market for many smaller embedded 
renewable generators.
EBITDA
£(39)m
(2019: £17m)
Pellet production
Our pellets provide a sustainable, low-carbon fuel 
source that can be safely and efficiently delivered 
through our global supply chian and used by 
Drax's Generation business to make flexible, 
renewable electricity for the UK.
 
 
Based in North America this business aims to 
increase capacity from 1.5Mt to 5Mt and reduce 
production costs by 2027 to support a long-term 
future for sustainable biomass.
EBITDA
£52m
(2019: £32m)
Pellets produced
1.5mt
(2019: 1.4mt)
Production cost
$153/t
(2019: $161/t)
Generation
Our multi-site, multi-technology portfolio of 
flexible, low-carbon and renewable UK power 
assets provides power and system support 
services to the electricity grid. 
This portfolio provides long-term earnings 
stability and opportunities to optimise returns 
from the transition to a low-carbon economy.
 
Drax is the UK largest single source of renewable 
electricity and is developing an option for carbon 
negative electricity using bioenergy carbon 
capture and storage (BECCS).
The Group also has options for system support 
gas assets and a long-term option for the 
potential of pump storage.
EBITDA
£446m
(2019: £408m)
% renewable
77%
(2019: 79%)
System support and optimisation
£118m
(2019: £120m)
Our UK and US biomass production assets include:
Our UK power generation assets include:
Our UK energy supply businesses include:
Drax operates an integrated value chain across three core areas of  
activity in the US and the UK: 
• Biomass production
• Power generation and system support services
• Business to Business (B2B) energy supply and management solutions
Safety, sustainability and operational excellence underpin all our activities.
Daldowie Fuel Plant, UK
Daldowie Fuel Plant processes sludge from a wastewater 
treatment plant and converts it into dry, low-odour fuel 
pellets. Daldowie can convert 1,000 tonnes of sludge into 
 
23.5 tonnes of biomass pellets for use as a sustainable fuel 
source. This safely disposes large volumes of sludge that 
might otherwise end up in landfill. 
Drax Power Station
Drax Power Station is the biggest renewable generator in 
the UK. It supplies 11% of the UK’s renewable power and 
generates enough power to keep the lights on in more than 
6 million homes.
Cruachan Power Station
Cruachan Power Station is one of only four pumped hydro 
storage stations in the UK and has a capacity of 440 MW – 
enough to power more than 90,000 homes.
Haven Power
Haven Power supplies and manages electricity for large 
industrial and commercial customers, as well as smaller 
businesses. Haven Power supplies renewable electricity as 
standard, and at no extra cost to customers.
Opus Energy
Opus Energy supplies electricity and gas to businesses 
and has partnerships with over 2,000 independent UK 
renewable energy generators. This provides a market for 
power from renewable energy sources such as wind, solar, 
hydro and anaerobic digestion.
Hydro-electric power stations
Lanark consists of two hydropower stations – at Bonnington and at Stonebyres – and has a total capacity of 17 MW. 
Galloway comprises six power stations (Drumjohn, Kendoon, Carsfad, Earlstoun, Glenlee and Tongland), eight dams and a 
series of tunnels, aqueducts and pipelines that help to control the flow of the water - and has a total capacity of 109 MW.
Drax Biomass, US
Drax Biomass International manufactures compressed wood 
pellets produced from sustainably managed working forests 
(in Louisiana, Mississippi and Arkansas) that supply fuel to 
Drax Power Station. 
Headquartered in Monroe, Louisiana, the company owns 
and operates three wood pellet manufacturing plants: 
Amite BioEnergy in Gloster, Mississippi; Morehouse 
BioEnergy near Bastrop, Louisiana; and LaSalle BioEnergy, 
near Urania, Louisiana.
A port facility in Baton Rouge, Louisiana manages the 
shipping of the compressed wood pellets.
(reflecting the negative 
impact of COVID-19 with 
a £(60)m impact.)
Modern Slavery Statement 2020
Modern Slavery Statement 2020
6
7
Our  
anti-modern  
slavery  
programme
Governance
Employment 
practices
Supplier contracts
Policies and 
procedures
Risk  
assessment
Speak up culture
Training
Due diligence
Working together
Modern Slavery Statement 2020
Modern Slavery Statement 2020
8
9
Our Modern Slavery 
Working Group (MSWG) 
is responsible for the 
development and delivery 
of our anti-modern slavery 
programme and provides 
a quarterly report on its 
activity to our Ethics 
and Business Conduct 
Committee (EBCC). 
Our EBCC, a sub-committee of our  
Executive Committee, oversees our 
programme. It provides an annual report  
on its decisions and activity to our Audit 
Committee, which comprises executive and 
non-executive directors.
The EBCC:
• Has approved a protocol and remediation 
plan, based on guidance from the Home 
Office, that we must follow if we discover 
modern slavery in our business or  
supply chain
Governance
“The MSWG continued 
its work to deliver Drax’s 
ongoing improvement 
programme, as reported 
throughout this statement”
• Is responsible for making sure Drax takes 
appropriate steps to investigate and 
remediate the risk of modern slavery,  
both within our own business and our  
supply chain
No cases of modern slavery have been 
escalated to the EBCC to date. We continue to 
work with our colleagues and suppliers to raise 
awareness and promote transparency in our 
supply chains.
Progress in 2020:
• The EBCC, in addition to the Executive 
Committee and Board, approved a new Drax 
Code of Conduct (‘Drax Code’) and Supplier 
Code of Conduct (‘Supplier Code’)
• The MSWG continued its work to deliver 
Drax’s ongoing improvement programme,  
as reported  throughout this statement
• The EBCC  approved a detailed remediation 
plan (to be used should modern slavery be 
discovered in Drax’s supply chain) 
• Drax’s Employee Forums were engaged to 
establish the effectiveness of Drax's anti-
modern slavery programme
In 2021, we plan to:
• Increase the frequency of our 
communication on the topic of modern 
slavery, following feedback from our 
Employee Forums
• Research suitable ‘in-country’ Non-
Governmental Organisations (NGOs) and/
or other partners to support Drax should an 
issue occur that requires the EBCC approved 
remediation plan to be put into action
Modern Slavery Statement 2020
Modern Slavery Statement 2020
10
11
Risk assessment
We’re committed to 
identifying and addressing 
modern slavery that could 
be connected to both our 
business and supply chain.
Due to the controls and practices we’ve 
adopted (as described in the ‘Employment 
Practices’ section below), we believe the risk of 
modern slavery in our own business is very low.
Our wider supply chain is varied and complex, 
meaning the risk of modern slavery is higher. 
We have almost 4,000 suppliers across 
our procurement activities and engage 
with many different industries, including 
forestry, manufacturing, freight and logistics, 
engineering, construction, IT, and site services.
The Global Slavery Index, which is incorporated 
into our due diligence platform, continues 
to contribute to the risk assessment of 
potential suppliers. If the assessment returns 
a medium or higher risk result, then we issue a 
supplementary questionnaire for completion. 
This includes questions on underage workers, 
employee rights and freedoms, use of foreign 
and migrant workers, due diligence processes, 
policies, and procedures. 
In 2020, we started collaborating with supply 
chain sustainability experts ELEVATE. Our work  
leverages ELEVATE’s supply chain intelligence 
platform and datasets, and geographic, 
commodity and biomass research. Identifying 
local industry risk trends in this way helps to 
inform our risk mitigation activities.
Supply chain mapping
The following graphic provides statistics on our 
2020 fuel supply procurement activity. Of those 
countries listed, we consider Latvia, Estonia, 
Lithuania, Russia, Ukraine, and Belarus (sub tier 
1) to be higher risk for modern slavery. We carry 
out additional due diligence on these supply 
chains as described above.
2020 fuel procurement by country:
Biomass procurement  
by country 2020
63%
United States
4.7 million tonnes
17%
Canada
1.2 million tonnes
9%
Latvia
0.7 million tonnes
2%
Portugal
0.1 million tonnes
2%
Brazil
0.1 million tonnes 
1% 
Belarus 
0.1 million tonnes
1%
Russia
<0.1 million tonnes 
Coal procurement 
Drax will end commercial coal generation at 
Drax Power Station by March 2021. To this end, 
we didn’t receive any international coal in 2020 
and had only two deliveries of domestic coal 
(Scotland) totaling <3kt.
1%
Estonia
<0.1 million tonnes 
1%
Lithuania
<0.1 million tonnes 
1%
UK
<0.1 million tonnes 
1%
Ukraine
<0.1 million tonnes
<=0.2%
Other European (Poland, 
Finland, Sweden, Spain, 
Norway, Italy)
<0.1 million tonnes 
 
Progress in 2020:
• Completed an annual risk assessment, in line 
with Home Office guidance, and reported it to 
the EBCC
• Updated the Group-wide modern slavery risk 
register. Like the risk assessment, the register 
was subject to the EBCC's review
• Issued the modern slavery questionnaire 
to appropriate third parties and assessed 
responses, following up as required
• Progressed work to map the supply chain of 
our top categories of non-fuel spend
• Enhanced our risk assessment toolkit by 
purchasing and implementing a new third 
party system, ELEVATE
• Researched additional tools that could further 
strengthen our risk assessment processes 
• Started to introduce our new Supplier Code 
into onboarding and contracting processes
 
In 2021, we plan to:
• Continue to introduce our new Supplier Code 
into onboarding and contracting processes for 
new agreements, or at the point of renewal for 
existing agreements
• Continue work to map the supply chain of our 
top categories of non-fuel spend
• Further strengthen our country risk assessment 
process by engaging a third-party expert
• Implement additional tools to strengthen  
the risk assessment process, as the EBCC 
deems appropriate
Non-fuel supply:
The following graphic provides statistics on 
our 2020 non-fuel procurement activity, by 
percentage of spend and geography, on our tier 
1 supply.  It shows that 92% of our spend is with 
tier 1 suppliers based in the UK. 
92%
UK
1.2%
USA
1%
Germany
1%
Japan
Top 6 tier 1 countries of  
origin based on spend
% of 2020 non-fuel supply  
spend by country
0.7%
Czech Republic
0.6%
Switzerland
In 2020, our Procurement team, as part of our 
supplier category management processes, 
continued a project to map our non-fuel supply 
chain. The team carried out an initial trial on our 
‘metering’ category (for our second generation 
of smart meters), using the ELEVATE platform 
to support the risk assessment process. We’ll 
continue this work across our top categories of 
non-fuel spend in 2021.
In the meantime, our policy is to carry out 
risk-based due diligence on all suppliers before 
entering a contract. We also endeavour to 
include obligations within these agreements 
for suppliers to cascade our standards to sub-
contractors. We’ve started to introduce our 
new Supplier Code into our onboarding and 
contracting processes.
Modern Slavery Statement 2020
Modern Slavery Statement 2020
12
13
Due diligence
We’re committed to 
conducting business with 
honesty and integrity, and in 
accordance with applicable 
laws and regulations.
Country and supplier approval
Our due diligence system automatically 
calculates the geographic risk of potential 
suppliers, based on several system-hosted 
indices. In relation to modern slavery, these 
include the Global Slavery Index.
The EBCC must approve higher risk countries 
before business can be conducted there. The 
EBCC can consider blanket country approvals, 
or specific contract approvals, depending on 
the consolidated commercial interest in that 
country. The EBCC will also consider the level 
of risk identified with that commercial interest 
and/or the associated supply chain.
Due diligence checks are carried out on 
suppliers and, where appropriate, their 
associated persons and supply chain. Should 
we identify concerns during the process, we 
may procure enhanced due diligence from a 
specialist service provider before escalation to 
the EBCC. The EBCC (or Executive Committee) 
will decide whether to appoint the supplier.
We’ve established a due diligence platform 
which all our business units use, both in the UK 
and the US. We use the platform to perform  
initial due diligence and continually monitor 
suppliers. Designated colleagues across our 
business units review the monitoring alerts (in 
conjunction with a standard company-wide 
process) and, if appropriate, escalate to the 
Group Business Ethics team.
Modern slavery instances
In 2020, our due diligence processes identified 
no instances of modern slavery. 
Progress in 2020:
• Evaluated the appropriateness of our due 
diligence approach for trial volumes of 
potential new fuels, including benchmarking 
with another UN Global Compact Modern 
Slavery Working Group member
• Carried out an end-to-end review of Drax 
Group's due diligence processes and 
presented the findings to the EBCC (‘2020 
Due Diligence Review’)
• Reviewed the Modern Slavery statements of 
our key freight partners to establish where 
collaboration might have the most value
• Continued to operate our due diligence 
processes throughout the pandemic 
to make sure we could investigate any 
concerns emerging because of COVID-19
In 2021, we plan to:
• Further strengthen the human rights 
content of our biomass supplier audits 
• Explore additional tools/systems that 
may enhance Drax’s due diligence toolkit 
regarding human rights 
• Implement the recommendations identified 
as part of the 2020 Due Diligence Review
• Seek to collaborate with select freight 
partners on their due diligence programmes 
and modern slavery initiatives
Modern Slavery Statement 2020
Modern Slavery Statement 2020
14
15
Policies and 
procedures
We expect colleagues to 
work with our values in 
mind and to follow our 
documentation framework, 
which includes our codes, 
policies and procedures.
In 2020, we developed two Codes of Conduct. 
The Board approved the Drax Code in 
September and it was deployed as a mandatory 
read to all colleagues and non-permanent 
workers (c. 3,100 people) in October. The Board 
approved the Supplier Code in October and a 
working group will facilitate its implementation.  
 
We provide online access to both documents at 
www.drax.com. 
Drax Code
Supplier Code
Modern Slavery Statement 2020
Modern Slavery Statement 2020
16
17
These mandatory, principles-
based documents form part of 
our Documentation Framework.  
They set out the values and 
behaviours we expect from 
our people and from those we 
conduct business with.
The Drax Code is supplemented by policies, 
procedures, and guidance that provide further 
information on the obligations applicable to 
Drax and how we ensure compliance with 
them. All our written materials are readily 
available to colleagues via our Group intranet. 
Should a colleague fail to meet the standards 
expected by the business, Drax commits  
to fully investigate the matter in line with  
the relevant terms of employment and 
disciplinary procedures. 
Progress in 2020:
• Continued a Group Policy Project to make 
sure our mandatory policies are up to date 
and published on a single platform
• Separated the content of our Corporate 
Crime policy into its constituent parts, 
creating a specific policy on Human Rights
• Reviewed our Due Diligence Guide as part of 
the 2020 Due Diligence Review 
In 2021, we plan to:
• Continue with the implementation of our 
Supplier Code for new agreements, or at the 
point of renewal for existing agreements
• Develop refresher eLearning content on our 
Drax Code
Modern Slavery Statement 2020
Modern Slavery Statement 2020
18
19
Employment 
practices
We do not tolerate any 
form of human trafficking, 
forced or bonded labour or 
the exploitation of children 
or vulnerable persons 
in our own business or 
our supply chains. We’re 
committed to tackling this 
abhorrent crime.
We strive to be an inclusive workplace and 
value diversity, with policies and practices in 
place to encourage this. We currently employ 
over 3,000 people across the UK and the US. 
Our HR strategy centers around valuing 
people and focusing on talent, raising business 
performance, building capability through our 
people, and developing a high performing 
organisation. Our colleagues are at the heart 
of our success and are key enablers of our 
business strategy and our ethical culture.
It's paramount that we have a safe and healthy 
work environment for all our colleagues. That's 
why we provide different kinds of support and 
have a range of relevant policies in place. These 
include policies designed to enable wellbeing 
and to accommodate different work and 
lifestyle preferences. We also have policies that 
encourage colleagues to raise grievances or 
concerns, and that support a diverse, inclusive, 
and ethical workplace.
Drax is committed to maintaining high 
standards in its employment practices and  
to giving colleagues employment security. 
A high proportion of our colleagues are on 
permanent contracts.
The risk of modern slavery taking place within 
our business is much lower than it is through 
our supply chain. Even so, our recruitment 
procedures incorporate several steps designed 
to eliminate such risks, including:
• Carrying out “right to work” checks and 
making sure the agencies we use to  
supply non-permanent workers carry out 
equivalent checks
• Performing pre-employment checks to verify 
the identity of prospective colleagues and to 
make sure they’re over 16 years of age
• Completing disclosure and barring service 
checks for specific roles to enable us to 
make safer recruitment decisions 
• Making sure an employment contract is in 
place before starting employment at Drax
• Paying all our UK based colleagues at least 
the real Living Wage
We respect our colleagues’ rights in areas 
such as freedom of association and collective 
bargaining. Overall, approximately 22% of 
the workforce across Drax is covered by a 
collective bargaining agreement. For the rest 
of the workforce, Employee Forums are in 
place, enabling a two-way dialogue between 
the senior leadership team and colleagues. We 
maintain healthy relationships with our trade 
union partners, attending monthly meetings to 
discuss potential issues (e.g. employment terms 
and conditions, learning and development, 
business change) that may affect members. We 
also undertake annual negotiations on pay and 
conditions of employment.
We communicate with colleagues both formally 
and informally, including through posters, 
leaflets, our intranet, a quarterly newsletter, and 
open forum meetings involving members of the 
senior leadership team. Each week, the CEO 
takes questions from across Drax on a wide 
range of topics and we share his responses with 
all colleagues.
Modern Slavery Statement 2020
Modern Slavery Statement 2020
20
21
We communicate with employees 
both formally and informally, including 
through posters, leaflets, our intranet, 
a quarterly newsletter, and open 
forum meetings involving members of 
the senior leadership team.
Progress in 2020:
• Harmonised and deployed our Group  
policies on Dignity at Work and Diversity and 
Inclusion
• Offered more choice about when, where, 
and how people work by introducing a 
Formal Flexible Working policy and Informal 
Flexible Working Guidelines
• Reviewed the wages of our UK based 
colleagues and adjusted any below the real 
Living Wage; all colleagues directly employed 
by Drax in the UK are now on at least the 
real Living Wage
• Engaged a provider of non-permanent 
workers that will also only pay the real Living 
Wage or above
• Collected diversity data, as part of our  
annual ‘MyVoice’ engagement survey, for  
the first time
In 2021, we plan to:
• Identify other suppliers to Drax that may pay 
below the real Living Wage and, with each 
one, agree milestones for introducing the 
real Living Wage 
• Continue to collect diversity data as  
part of our 2021 ‘My Voice’ survey, and 
provide comparable statistics (i.e. between 
2020 and 2021) in our 2021 Modern  
Slavery Statement
Our response to COVID-19
In 2020, we implemented various initiatives for colleagues, customers, and communities because of the 
COVID-19 pandemic, including: 
• Investing over £200,000 in a UK-wide 
‘Laptops for Learners’ initiative, providing 
c.850 laptops to 50 schools and colleges 
near our sites to enable students to access 
lessons from home during lockdown
• Donating $30,000 to help families and 
businesses in the parishes around our pellet 
mills in Louisiana and Mississippi in the US 
(areas that experienced the impact of both 
COVID-19 and tornadoes in 2020)
• Putting together a package to support care 
homes, including the supply of free energy 
for two months to 170 independent care 
homes local to our sites across the UK
• Donating £150,000 to the specialist debt 
charity, Business Debtline
• Supporting colleagues to continue to 
work from home. This included providing 
more suitable IT equipment, introducing 
collaboration and virtual working tools and 
setting out clear and simple guidelines on 
working together virtually
• Providing guidance to colleagues on how 
best to work from home to ensure safety, 
confidentiality, and protection of others 
personal information 
• Setting out and maintaining COVID-19 
measures that uphold our principle of 
‘Keeping Everyone Safe’
• Introducing a COVID-19 Absence policy 
– periods of sickness absence linked to 
COVID-19 (taken in line with Government 
advice) does not lead to any loss of pay  
or count towards sickness entitlement ,  
nor impact a colleague’s eligibility for an 
annual bonus 
• Introducing two weeks’ emergency paid 
leave for childcare support following the 
2020 school closures
• Introducing Mental Health First Aiders 
across the business and providing 
development for all managers on Mental 
Health Awareness
• Introducing a Winter Wellbeing programme 
of articles, support, ideas, and challenges to 
keep people healthy and well over winter 
• Encouraging colleagues to engage in 
community and charity activities - promoting 
‘Give As You Earn’ and virtual volunteering 
opportunities to support local charities and 
communities where the pandemic’s impact 
has been most severe
Modern Slavery Statement 2020
Modern Slavery Statement 2020
22
23
Supplier contracts
In October 2020, our 
Board approved a new 
Supplier Code, which will 
replace our Corporate 
Responsibility Statement 
in appropriate contracts 
going forward.
It will also be built into the tendering processes 
for our non-fuel procurement activities. A 
working group formed in Q4 2020 will facilitate 
its implementation in 2021. 
The Supplier Code expects suppliers to make 
sure  their own suppliers operate in line with 
the standards set out in the Code (where 
involved in activities on behalf of Drax). It also 
provides the details of the Speak Up service 
that Drax has put in place for use by colleagues, 
non-permanent workers, and suppliers alike. 
So, all groups are able to anonymously report 
modern slavery or other concerns about Drax’s 
supply chain (in multiple languages).
Progress in 2020:
• Actively worked with and supported our 
suppliers, through COVID-19. To reduce the 
potential impact on working capital, we set 
up regular calls to make sure there were 
no late payment issues . Where possible, 
we supported contract extensions to 
facilitate the recovery of revenue lost during 
lockdown at a later date
• Developed and published a new  
Supplier Code 
• Formed an internal working group to 
manage the implementation of the Supplier 
Code into Drax processes and contractual 
documentation
In 2021, we plan to:
• Complete the deployment of the  
Supplier Code
• Consider adding further detail on our non-
fuel procurement activities to the Ethics and 
Integrity section of our website
Modern Slavery Statement 2020
Modern Slavery Statement 2020
24
25
Awareness  
and training 
In 2020, we built on the 
modern slavery awareness 
and training that we’d 
previously provided. Our 
key deliverables are below.
Progress in 2020:
• Issued the new Drax Code (including 
principle level detail on modern slavery) as 
a mandatory read to all colleagues and non-
permanent workers (c. 3,100 people) via our 
Learning Management System
 
– The internal version of the Drax Code 
includes several embedded eLearning 
videos for reference by colleagues, 
including one on human rights covering the 
tell-tale signs of modern slavery
• Issued a Business Ethics eLearning module 
to our Board and Executive Committee, with 
a dedicated section on modern slavery 
• Replaced our former 'Doing the right thing' 
content with the Drax Code for all new 
starters, as part of our induction programme
• Issued an article on our 2019 Modern 
Slavery Statement on our Group intranet
• Contributed an article on modern slavery in 
the winter 2020 edition of the Drax internal 
employee magazine, ‘Connected’
• Conducted an employee survey, via our 
Employee Forums, to assess the effectiveness 
of our modern slavery programme, including 
our associated training
In 2021, we plan to:
• Adapt the eLearning issued to the Board and 
Executive Committee in 2020 and deploy to 
Drax’s wider leadership team (c.230 people)
• Issue a ‘Code at a Glance’ e-Leaflet to 
colleagues to remind them of the principles 
set out in the Drax Code and of how to 
speak up
• Develop refresher eLearning on the Drax 
Code content
• Feed the insight gathered from the 
Employee Forums into the development of 
future training materials
• Develop (internally) a detailed learning 
module on modern slavery and deploy 
to those teams deemed ‘at higher risk’ of 
encountering modern slavery, to replace the 
third-party material we’ve used previously
Screenshot of 
human rights 
embedded video 
from the Drax Code.
Modern Slavery Statement 2020
Modern Slavery Statement 2020
26
27
“Speak up” 
culture 
We encourage all those 
connected with Drax 
to challenge unethical 
behaviour and promote a 
speak up culture. 
Within Drax, individuals can raise concerns 
directly via their manager, the Group Business 
Ethics team, or the Company Secretary (as 
Whistleblowing Officer for Drax). Alternatively, 
an independently operated and confidential 
speak up helpline and web portal are available.
Third parties to Drax can also raise their 
concerns via the Group Business Ethics team, 
the Whistleblowing Officer or the external 
speak up service.
The external reporting service enables reporters 
to raise concerns relating to Drax anonymously, 
should they wish. The service forwards any 
issues raised to the Group Business Ethics 
team and/or the Whistleblowing Officer (in 
accordance with the reporter’s anonymity 
preference) who acknowledge, triage, and 
investigate as appropriate. The Group Business 
Ethics team/Whistleblowing Officer report 
concerns raised, the status of any investigation 
and any recommended remediation measures 
to the EBCC, the Board and, where appropriate, 
the relevant authorities.
It is against our values to punish (or otherwise 
retaliate against) anyone expressing  
genuine concern. 
No concerns relating to modern slavery  
were raised through our reporting processes  
in 2020.
Progress in 2020:
• Strengthened our Speak Up programme by;
 
– Updating our Speak Up (whistleblowing) 
policy, which was approved by our Board in 
February
 
– Featuring our approach to speaking up 
and available reporting channels in the 
Drax Code and Supplier Code (including 
encouraging our suppliers to put in place a 
similar facility)
 
– Developing speak up guidance for both 
colleagues and managers
 
– Updating the external speak up service, 
moving to a single provider across Drax 
and opening access to non-permanent 
workers and third parties
 
– Reporting directly to the Board on speak 
up matters
In 2021, we plan to:
•  Continue our Speak Up awareness  
raising campaign
• Strengthen and standardise our 
investigation processes for speak  
up concerns
Modern Slavery Statement 2020
Modern Slavery Statement 2020
28
29
Working together
We seek to work in 
partnership with others 
to strengthen our 
learning and approach.
Sustainable Biomass Program (SBP)
In 2013, Drax co-founded the SBP together 
with six other energy companies. The SBP 
is a certification system designed for woody 
biomass, mostly in the form of wood pellets 
and wood chips, used in industrial, large-
scale energy production.
SBP proactively encourages the adoption 
of standards and due diligence processes 
that include the promotion of human 
rights. For suppliers to be approved under 
the certification scheme, they must satisfy 
multiple requirements, including those 
relating to modern slavery due diligence. 
There's more information on the  
SBP website.
UN Global Compact
In 2018, we became participants in the 
UN Global Compact (UNGC) – a voluntary 
corporate sustainability initiative that 
encourages businesses worldwide to adopt 
sustainable and socially responsible practices. 
Further information on the UNGC can be 
found on its website.
In addition to our general participation, 
we’re members of both the UNGC’s Advisory 
Group (which governs the UK Network) and 
its Modern Slavery Working Group. Such 
involvement enables us to collaborate  
with, and benchmark our activities against,  
our peers.
Our Annual Report for financial year end 
2020 will contain the details required for our 
“UNGC Communication on Progress”. These 
details include the actions we’ve taken to 
demonstrate our commitment to all 10 of 
the UNGC principles and to the Sustainable 
Development Goals we’re actively progressing. 
Modern Slavery registries
In 2020, we engaged with the Modern Slavery 
Registry and TISCreport.com to improve 
the transparency of our Modern Slavery 
Statement reporting. 
Following the government’s response to the 
‘Transparency in Supply Chains’ consultation 
in September 2020, we’re committed to 
making sure our reporting meets the updated 
requirements. We’ll also ensure our future 
Statements are added to the central registry, 
once available.
Stakeholder engagement
Like many businesses, we have a diverse group 
of stakeholders who are affected by our global 
activities. These include our shareholders, 
investors, colleagues, non-permanent 
workers, contractors, customers, suppliers, 
communities and local authorities, government, 
regulators and policymakers, schools and 
colleges, academics, think tanks, non-
governmental organisations (NGOs), network 
operators, trade and industry associations. 
We conduct an ongoing mapping exercise 
to assess how the stakeholder landscape is 
developing and to make sure we’re recognising, 
and responding to, the expectations of a broad 
range of stakeholders across our businesses.
Progress in 2020:
• Participated in the UNGC Modern Slavery 
Working Group meetings
• Participated in the UNGC peer Modern 
Slavery Statement review
• Attended Slave Free Alliance Utilities 
Working Group meetings, to better 
understand their activities and how  
they might improve Drax’s modern  
slavery programme
• Engaged with Traffik Analysis Hub to better 
understand their offering and how  
it might compliment Drax’s risk assessment 
toolkit
In 2021, we plan to:
• Continue our work with the UN Global 
Compact
• Explore other potential partnerships and add 
associated services to our toolkit, as required
COMMUNITIES 
AND LOCAL 
AUTHORITIES
CUSTOMERS
THINK TANKS 
AND ACADEMICS
SUPPLIERS AND 
CONTRACTORS
GOVERNMENT 
AND 
REGULATORS
NON- 
GOVERNMENTAL 
ORGANISATIONS
SHAREHOLDERS 
AND INVESTORS
SCHOOLS
REGULATOR 
AND NETWORK 
BUSINESSES
EMPLOYEES
PROVIDERS  
OF CAPITAL
TRADE AND 
INDUSTRY 
ASSOCIATIONS
Modern Slavery Statement 2020
Modern Slavery Statement 2020
30
31
KPIs and looking ahead
We’re committed to continual 
improvement and aim to 
strengthen our anti-modern 
slavery programme every year.
KPI
Progress
Employee training levels
Building on our training programme from previous 
years, in 2020: 
• All colleagues and non-permanent workers 
received our new Drax Code, as a mandatory read, 
via our Learning Management System (c.3,100 
people). New starters receive it during induction
• We developed a video detailing the tell-tale signs of 
modern slavery and embedded it within the Drax 
Code, for reference by all colleagues any time they 
need it
• Our Board and Executive Committee received 
Business Ethics eLearning (including specific 
content on modern slavery)
• We published several Group-wide articles on 
modern slavery over the course of the year
Identify and use opportunities for 
collaboration to verify and resolve  
risk issues
Participation in the UN Global Compact (including 
membership of its Modern Slavery working group) 
continued throughout 2020.
We also engaged with Slave Free Alliance 
and Traffik Analysis Hub to explore 
potential collaboration opportunities. 
Take steps to upskill our  
high-risk suppliers
Our Biomass Sustainability Compliance 
team has continued its programme to 
promote modern slavery awareness when 
conducting biomass supplier meetings.
Strengthen our supply chain auditing and 
verification
The Biomass Sustainability Compliance team 
continues to  engage with the Sustainable Biomass 
Programme (SBP).
Investigate reports of modern slavery and 
take remedial action, as needed
Not applicable, due to zero reports in 2020.
Maintain up to date due diligence 
information on supply chains that are high 
risk for modern slavery
We issue a modern slavery questionnaire where 
relevant and follow up where required.
Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)
We have internal KPIs that measure the effectiveness of our anti-modern slavery programme. We 
consult the EBCC on progress and performance
Modern Slavery Statement 2020
Modern Slavery Statement 2020
32
33
Programme element
Initiatives
Governance
• Deliver more regular communications on the topic of modern slavery
• Research suitable NGO/other partners to support Drax should we need 
to use the EBCC-approved remediation plan 
Risk assessment
•  Introduce our new Supplier Code into our onboarding and contracting 
processes 
• Reflect any updates to the Global Slavery Index in our due diligence 
platform, as required
• Continue our work to map the supply chain of our top categories of 
non-fuel spend
• Further strengthen our Country Risk Assessment processes by 
engaging a third-party expert
• Implement additional tools to strengthen our risk assessment process, 
as deemed necessary
Due diligence
• Further strengthen the human rights content of our supplier audits 
• Explore other tools/systems that could enhance Drax’s due diligence 
toolkit
• Implement the recommendations identified in the 2020 Due Diligence 
Review
• Seek to collaborate with some of our key freight partners on their due 
diligence programmes and modern slavery initiatives
Policies and 
procedures
• Continue with the implementation of our Supplier Code
Planned initiatives consolidation for 2021
As described throughout this Statement, we’ll explore how to strengthen our activities to promote 
human rights and eradicate modern slavery during 2021. This will include:
Programme element
Initiatives
Employment practices
• Identify other suppliers to Drax that may pay below the real Living 
Wage and work with them to identify realistic milestones for its 
implementation 
• Collect diversity data as part of our 2021 survey and provide 
comparable statistics in our 2021 Statement
Supplier contracts
• Finalise the deployment of the Supplier Code
• Consider adding more detailed non-fuel procurement content to the 
Ethics and Integrity section of our website
Training
• Adapt the eLearning issued to the Board and Executive Committee in 
2020 and deploy to Drax’s wider leadership team
• Develop refresher learning content on the Drax Code
• Feed the insight gathered from the employee survey into the 
development of future training materials
• Develop (internally) a detailed learning module on modern slavery and 
deploy to those teams deemed ‘at higher risk’ of encountering modern 
slavery, to replace the third-party material used previously
Speak Up culture
• Continue our awareness-raising campaign
• Strengthen and standardise our investigation processes for  
speak up concerns
Working together
• Continue our work with the UN Global Compact
• Explore other potential partnerships and add associated services to 
our toolkit as required once we’ve completed a full analysis 
Modern Slavery Statement 2020
Modern Slavery Statement 2020
34
35
Statement approval
We’re committed to doing the right thing. We believe this approach, and the measures 
we’re taking, demonstrate how effectively we’re identifying and addressing any modern 
slavery that could be connected to our business and supply chain.
The Drax board of directors has approved this statement for our financial year ending 31 
December 2020. We’ve completed it according to the requirements of section 54, part 
6 of the Modern Slavery Act 2015. It applies to all companies within the Drax Group that 
are required to have a Modern Slavery Statement, including:
•
Drax Biomass Inc.
•
Drax Corporate Limited
•
Drax Generation Enterprise Limited
•
Drax Group Holdings Limited
•
Drax Group plc
•
Drax Power Limited
•
Drax Smart Generation Holdco Limited
•
Drax Smart Sourcing Holdco Limited
•
Drax Smart Supply Holdco Limited
•
Haven Power Limited
•
Opus Energy (Corporate) Limited
•
Opus Energy Group Limited
•
Opus Energy Limited
•
Opus Energy Renewables Limited
•
Opus Gas Supply Limited
This statement was signed by:
Dwight Daniel Willard Gardiner  
(known as Will Gardiner)
Chief Executive Officer Drax Group plc
on 23 February 2021
