Zero, 
Then Negative
The Congressional Blueprint  
for Scaling Carbon Removal
MAY 2021
2 
Zero, Then Negative   •   Executive Summary
ABOUT CARBON180
Carbon180 is a new breed of 
climate-focused NGO on a mission to 
fundamentally rethink carbon.
2
CONTRIBUTORS  (Alphabetical)
Giana Amador 
Erin Burns
Maya Glicksman 
Courtni Holness
Rory P. Jacobson 
Ugbaad Kosar 
Chris Neidl
Lucia D. Simonelli, PhD 
Tim Steeves, PhD 
Vanessa Suarez 
Meron Tesfaye, PhD
GET IN TOUCH
To learn more about any of the recommendations in this report,  
email policy@carbon180.org.
3 
Zero, Then Negative   •   Executive Summary
Section One
Executive Summary
4 
Zero, Then Negative   •   Executive Summary
Executive Summary
The carbon removal field has undergone incredible transformation in the last five 
years. What began as a highly niche and neglected set of climate solutions has 
since become a core component of climate action, with growing recognition from 
an ever-broader coalition of one simple fact: We simply cannot meet our global 
climate goals without carbon removal. To solve the climate crisis, we must push 
past zero and get to negative. Building upon recent progress, Congress has a 
singular opportunity to catalyze the next wave of transformation for carbon 
removal.
Despite its promise and urgency, carbon removal solutions lag significantly behind 
other vital approaches such as electric vehicles and renewable energy. The rapid 
pace of change over the last few years has opened a rare window to double down 
on our momentum and, with targeted and ambitious investments from the federal 
government today, far outpace that growth in the coming decades. To do this, we 
must come together around transformational policies that can address current 
barriers to full-scale carbon removal.
Current barriers to full-scale carbon removal
1.   High costs for 
nascent carbon 
removal 
technologies, 
compounded by 
insufficient 
research, 
development, and 
demonstration 
(RD&D) funding
2.   Low demand  
for removal, 
associated 
products, and 
co-benefits, 
keeping private 
sector capital 
sidelined
3.   Inadequate 
regulations 
ensuring the safe, 
sustainable, and 
equitable 
deployment of 
carbon removal 
projects 
4.   Insufficient 
infrastructure  
to transport  
and store CO2 
and deploy 
nature-based 
restoration 
solutions
5.   Unclear 
guidelines on 
carbon 
monitoring, 
reporting, and 
verification for 
land-based 
approaches
5 
Zero, Then Negative   •   Executive Summary
LAND-BASED APPROACHES
Land-based carbon removal 
approaches, many of which are 
relatively inexpensive and already 
being deployed, can provide myriad 
environmental and economic 
co-benefits. With an integrated 
approach to assessing and 
deploying these solutions, Congress 
can build a durable carbon removal 
economy that advances 
environmental justice (EJ), optimizes 
carbon removal deployment, and 
supports safe and dignified job 
creation. 
1.  Increase and expand RD&D at 
the Department of Agriculture 
(USDA) to scale soil carbon 
storage across US agricultural 
systems 
2.  Adjust the federal crop insurance 
program to encourage the 
adoption of conservation 
practices
3.  Expand financial and technical 
assistance to drive adoption of 
soil carbon practices 
4.  Pilot a federal land link program 
at USDA to promote soil carbon 
storage and support socially 
disadvantaged producers 
5.  Expand public forests by 
improving US Forest Service 
(USFS) programs
6.  Establish dedicated funding at 
the Department of the Interior 
(DOI) and USDA to protect and 
restore existing public forests 
7.  Establish dedicated funding 
streams to conserve and restore 
private forest lands 
8.  Establish a Civilian Climate Corps 
to address climate change and 
provide employment 
opportunities for US communities
9.  Expand the Agricultural 
Conservation Easement 
Program-Wetlands Reserve 
Easements (ACEP-WRE) and 
Conservation Reserve Program 
(CRP) to bolster wetland 
conservation 
10.  Expand the Forest Inventory and 
Analysis (FIA) program to improve 
centralized forest carbon data 
activities 
11.  Invest in innovation grants and 
life cycle assessments (LCAs) to 
advance durable emerging wood 
technologies
12.  Invest in social science research 
to identify and reduce barriers to 
participating in USDA assistance 
programs 
13.  Expand research and 
governance for marine-based 
carbon removal through federal 
program creation and 
international cooperation
This report outlines the key actions Congress should take over the next one to  
three years to rapidly develop and deploy carbon removal. The recommendations  
in this report focus on how we can realize carbon removal’s full potential as a  
critical climate solution and also deliver on its environmental, economic, and  
social co-benefits. With the tools at its disposal — RD&D, deployment incentives, 
infrastructure, and regulations — the federal government is poised to reinvent the US 
economy, drive forward a new industry, and put our climate and communities first.
6 
Zero, Then Negative   •   Executive Summary
TECH-BASED APPROACHES
Technologies that pull carbon out 
of the atmosphere have the 
potential to remove gigatons of 
CO2, create hundreds of thousands 
of jobs, and contribute significantly 
to economic growth. Through the 
passage of forward-thinking and 
comprehensive legislation, 
Congress has the capacity to 
propel these solutions to realize 
climate goals and lead the creation 
of a vibrant market.
1.  Utilize federal procurement to 
drive the deployment of direct 
air capture (DAC), bioenergy 
with carbon capture and 
storage (BECCS), and 
carbontech 
2.  Develop comprehensive 
demonstration and deployment 
strategies within the 
Department of Energy (DOE) to 
complement research and 
development (R&D) efforts 
3.  Establish a federal DAC siting 
research initiative to support 
equitable and safe deployment
4.  Create a DAC market, policy, 
and people innovation prize
5.  Enhance and expand the 45Q 
tax credit for DAC
6.  Create an investment tax credit 
for DAC
7.  Invest in DAC-to-fuel pathways
8.  Pre-permit geologic storage on 
federal land 
9.  Update the Class VI 
underground injection well 
permitting process to enable 
more rapid development of 
geologic carbon storage 
10.  Create a pipeline development 
task force to site pipelines 
connecting CO2 sources to 
storage facilities 
11.  Create an RD&D program for 
enhanced CO2 mineralization
CROSS-SOLUTION APPROACHES
Carbon removal solutions have 
traditionally been developed and 
deployed in silos, but with a host of 
opportunities and challenges 
across the industry, it is crucial to 
develop policy that utilizes 
expertise across federal agencies.
1.  Expand and pass the CREATE 
Act to ensure a comprehensive, 
cross-agency carbon removal 
strategy
2.  Codify the Interagency Working 
Group on Environmental Justice 
(EJ IWG) and strengthen 
requirements for the integration 
of EJ across federal agencies
3.  Create an interdisciplinary 
roadmap for BECCS deployment 
options
4.  Include biomass-based carbon 
removal products in the Value-
Added Producer Grant program 
7 
Zero, Then Negative   •   Executive Summary
Section Two
Introduction
8 
Zero, Then Negative   •   Introduction
Introduction
The carbon removal field has undergone incredible transformation in the last five 
years. What began as a highly niche and neglected set of climate solutions has since 
become a core component of climate action, with growing recognition from an 
ever-broader coalition of one simple fact: We simply cannot meet our global climate 
goals without carbon removal. To solve the climate crisis, we must push past zero and 
get to negative. Building upon recent progress, Congress has a singular opportunity to 
catalyze the next wave of transformation for carbon removal.
With 2020’s omnibus bill, Congress passed the most 
substantial climate bill in a decade and delivered historic 
wins for carbon removal — including the first-ever federal 
program dedicated to carbon removal research and 
development, extended tax credits for new projects, and 
hundreds of millions of dollars in federal appropriations. The 
first four months of the 117th Congress have produced a 
string of bipartisan and bicameral bills, such as the SCALE 
and REPLANT Acts, which promise to accelerate the 
deployment of land- and tech-based solutions, and the 
Biden administration has spotlighted carbon removal in its 
plans to jumpstart climate action.
For communities across the country, the steps taken on the 
Hill translate to far more than tons of CO2 pulled out of the 
atmosphere. The carbon sequestered by agricultural 
operations represents a previously untapped source of 
revenue and productivity, while the growth of new carbon-
negative industries means a surge in high-quality jobs for 
workers and stronger, more competitive local economies. In the business world, 
capturing and storing CO2 has become an area of immense interest to high-profile 
entrepreneurs and the linchpin of corporate strategies to eliminate emissions from 
operations and supply chains. The recent net-zero and net-negative commitments 
from Stripe, Shopify, Microsoft, and others underscore an ambition made possible by 
combining strong policy with solutions that can directly remove CO2 from the air.
Carbon removal brings a fresh perspective to climate change, and this focus on 
economic opportunity and community resilience has given it a uniquely bipartisan and 
cross-sector appeal. In a short period of time, the promise of a carbon-removing future 
has brought together unlikely collaborators from across party lines and industries, 
coalitions that will be strategic to the success of long-term climate action.
Despite its promise and urgency, carbon removal solutions lag significantly behind 
other vital approaches such as electric vehicles and renewable energy. The rapid pace 
“Carbon removal  
brings a fresh perspective 
to climate change,  
and this focus on 
economic opportunity 
and community resilience 
has given it a uniquely 
bipartisan and  
cross-sector appeal.”
9 
Zero, Then Negative   •   Introduction
of change over the last few years has opened a rare window to double down on our 
momentum and, with targeted and ambitious investments from the federal 
government today, far outpace that growth in the coming decades. To do this, we 
must come together around transformational policies that can address current 
barriers to full-scale carbon removal.
This report outlines the key actions Congress should take over the next one to three 
years to rapidly develop and deploy carbon removal. The recommendations in this 
report focus on how we can realize carbon removal’s full potential as a critical 
climate solution and also deliver on its environmental, economic, and social co-
benefits. With the tools at its disposal — RD&D, deployment incentives, 
infrastructure, and regulations — the federal government is poised to reinvent the US 
economy, drive forward a new industry, and put our climate and communities first.
Current barriers to full-scale carbon removal
1.   High costs for 
nascent carbon 
removal 
technologies, 
compounded by 
insufficient 
research, 
development, and 
demonstration 
(RD&D) funding
2.   Low demand  
for removal, 
associated 
products, and 
co-benefits, 
keeping private 
sector capital 
sidelined
3.   Inadequate 
regulations 
ensuring the safe, 
sustainable, and 
equitable 
deployment of 
carbon removal 
projects 
4.   Insufficient 
infrastructure  
to transport  
and store CO2 
and deploy 
nature-based 
restoration 
solutions
5.   Unclear 
guidelines on 
carbon 
monitoring, 
reporting, and 
verification for 
land-based 
approaches
10 
Zero, Then Negative   •   Executive Summary
Section Three
Recommendations
INTO THE WOODS
Land-Based Approaches
Land-based carbon removal pathways harness the power of plants and nature 
— such as forests, wetlands, agricultural fields, and grasslands — to mitigate climate 
change. Forests are natural carbon removal machines and present the largest 
opportunity to remove and store carbon dioxide. Agricultural systems also have 
significant and largely untapped carbon removal potential — farmers and ranchers 
can implement several land management practices, such as cover crops and 
conservation tillage, to help increase soil carbon storage. Land-based carbon 
removal approaches can provide myriad environmental and economic  
co-benefits — including improved water quality, increased biodiversity, and better 
crop yields — all of which can help agriculture producers, forest landowners, and 
their local economies. 
Many land-based carbon removal solutions are relatively inexpensive and being 
deployed today. There is a growing number of private and public sector initiatives 
that support wide-scale deployment of land-based carbon removal. However, novel 
policies that 1) improve monitoring, reporting, and verification of carbon in land-
based systems, 2) provide equitable financial and technical assistance to land 
managers and communities, 3) and consider the impacts of climate change on 
ecosystems are necessary to sustainably scale up carbon removal solutions. The 
federal government must play a pivotal role in addressing these barriers to help 
accelerate the adoption of carbon-minded practices and provide long-term 
revenue streams for rural and urban communities. 
An integrated approach to assessing and deploying land-based carbon removal 
solutions is incredibly important — there are significant environmental, economic, 
and social implications to consider. This section will include recommendations that 
strive to buoy carbon removal programs with other co-benefits such as public 
health, job creation, and ecological integrity. Underlying these efforts is a focus on 
equity and justice and a concerted effort to redress harms that have excluded 
economically and socially disadvantaged landowners, producers, and communities 
from carbon removal solutions and their many benefits. 
Congress can build a prosperous and durable carbon removal economy that 
advances environmental justice (EJ), optimizes carbon removal deployment, and 
supports safe and dignified job creation. Innovative incentives, increased federal 
research and development (R&D), and improved assistance programs driven by 
American leadership and ingenuity are essential to address the climate crisis.
11 
Zero, Then Negative   •   Land-Based Approaches
Increase and expand RD&D at the  
Department of Agriculture (USDA) to scale soil 
carbon storage across US agricultural systems
While many practices that promote soil carbon storage, such as reduced 
tillage and cover cropping, are already deployed across farms in the US, 
research is still needed to better assess the effectiveness of the suite of 
carbon removal agricultural practices across geographies, climates, and 
operation types. In addition, as farmers, private companies, and 
governments look to monetize carbon storage, there is a need to 
improve techniques to monitor and verify carbon storage, better 
understand the economic and social benefits and barriers to adopting 
these practices, and develop the next generation of agriculture 
solutions. 
There are several offices within USDA that lead scientific and economic 
research on agricultural soil carbon storage, including the Economic 
Research Service (ERS), Agricultural Research Service (ARS), and National 
Institute of Food and Agriculture (NIFA). Outside USDA, several 
departments also have related research, including the National Science 
Foundation (NSF), Department of Energy (DOE), and Department of the 
Interior (DOI). However, these efforts have historically been siloed, 
underfunded, and too heavily focused on specific subsets of the US 
agriculture industry.  
Moving forward, additional policy action is needed to: 
•   Centralize and coordinate existing work
•   Expand foundational research around soil carbon sequestration 
•   Find new technology breakthroughs
•   Understand the economic and social science research that can help 
inform adoption of soil carbon storage practices across different 
geographies and contexts and aid in developing better policy design
Recommendation: Increase, expand, and centralize 
RD&D on soil carbon across federal agencies 
Direct USDA to create an interagency research program focused on soil 
BY GIANA AMADOR &  
VANESSA SUAREZ
1.
1 . A
12 
Zero, Then Negative   •   Land-Based Approaches
13 
Zero, Then Negative   •   Land-Based Approaches
carbon, led by USDA in collaboration with DOE, DOI, the National 
Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), and NSF. This program 
should be funded at $1 billion in total over five years, gradually ramping 
up as capacity improves. This funding should go toward foundational 
research around soil carbon science, technologically enhanced crop 
varieties and soil amendments, improving data networks and 
integration, developing new tools, methodologies, and protocols for soil 
carbon monitoring, reporting, and verification (MRV), and economic and 
social science research. 
Leadership and coordination will be a critical component of the success 
of this research, especially to ensure that findings are rapidly shared and 
transferred to the real world. USDA should explicitly include soil carbon 
storage within its Departmental Strategic Plan and prioritize soil carbon 
in appropriate existing programs across the department. The under 
secretary for Research, Education, and Economics (REE) should serve as 
the lead coordinator for all of these research activities to reduce 
redundancies, evaluate effectiveness, and collaborate across other 
agencies. USDA should prepare progress reports for Congress at one-, 
three-, and five-year increments.
RELATED RESOURCES
–  Leading with Soil, Carbon180
–  Soil Carbon Storage Fact Sheet, Carbon180
Adjust the federal crop insurance program  
to encourage the adoption of conservation  
practices
Over 290 million acres are covered under the USDA’s Federal Crop 
Insurance Corporation (FCIC), including more than 80% of the acres 
planted with major US field crops.1 Crop insurance is an important pillar 
of the agricultural system, and it inevitably plays an influential role in the 
types of crops and practices farmers adopt. The premiums are 
supported partially by farmers but largely by the government.
Today, there are a few main issues with the federal crop insurance 
program. First, this program currently disincentives the use of 
conservation practices that may store carbon in soils. In addition, there 
has been a lack of consistency between the practices pre-approved as 
“good farming practices” under the FCIC and those endorsed by the 
Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS).2 
Second, these same practices that store carbon in agricultural soils have 
1.   Economic Research Service. (2020). 
Government Programs & Risk: Major 
Risk Management Programs. US 
Department of Agriculture. https://
www.ers.usda.gov/topics/farm-
practices-management/risk-
management/government-programs-
risk/#:~:text=More%20than%20
290%20million%20acres,planted%20
in%20the%20United%20States
2.   Amador, G., Burns, E., Kosar, U., Suarez, 
V., & Zelikova, J. (2020). Leading with 
Soil. Carbon180. https://static1.
squarespace.com/static/5b9362d89 
d5abb8c51d474f8/t/5eaa30d12c3a76
7e64c3845b/1588211922979/
LeadingWithSoil_Final+Text.pdf
BY GIANA AMADOR &  
VANESSA SUAREZ
2.
14 
Zero, Then Negative   •   Land-Based Approaches
also demonstrated the ability to increase resilience and reduce 
indemnification in the face of worsening climate change. A recent paper 
found that relatively small increases not only reduced average liabilities 
under severe drought by 36%, but also increased on-farm yield under 
these conditions.3 The current crop insurance structure doesn’t take 
these resilience and financial benefits into account. 
Investing in farmer resilience and reducing crop insurance indemnities 
(which are currently on the rise) will be critical as the frequency of 
drought, floods, and extreme weather impact the agriculture economy.4 
If improved, the FCIC can be an important lever for promoting soil 
carbon storage on farms and ranches across the US. 
Recommendation: Adjust the federal crop 
insurance program to account for increasing 
climate impacts and encourage the adoption of 
conservation practices 
Congress should direct USDA to revamp the FCIC, aiming to provide a 
level playing field for conservation practices and to fully incorporate the 
resilience benefits of these practices. 
Specifically, premium rates for farms that undertake particular risk-
reducing and soil carbon-bolstering conservation practices should be 
lowered. Congress can ask subprograms within USDA to share with the 
Risk Management Agency (RMA) county-level data on conservation 
practices and their associated resilience benefits. RMA should then 
conduct a review of this research to determine which practices have the 
greatest ability to reduce indemnification and in which geographies, 
incorporating this data into their actuarial tables. RMA should also be 
directed to disseminate these results to private FCIC insurers to facilitate 
reduced premiums for farms that adopt these practices. This adjustment 
would serve the dual benefit of reducing indemnification costs on 
agricultural yields and American taxpayers, while also sequestering 
carbon dioxide and mitigating climate change.
In addition, all NRCS-approved conservation practices should be 
established as “good farming practices” under the FCIC. Finally, 
Congress could also explore developing a “carbon crops” incentive within 
the program, similar to the one used for organic practice coverage.5
SIMILAR POLICIES
Iowa crop insurance pilot program for planting cover crops 
The Iowa Department of Agriculture and Land Stewardship (IDALS) launched a 
pilot program to reduce crop insurance premiums for farmers who plant cover 
crops in their systems.
3.  Anusewicz, J. (2021, March 22). The Dirt 
on Crop Insurance. Yale School of the 
Environment. https://environment.yale.
edu/news/article/the-dirt-on-crop-
insurance-/
4.  Smith, P., Adams, J., Beerling, D.J., et 
al. (2019). Land-Management Options 
for Greenhouse Gas Removal and Their 
Impacts on Ecosystem Services and the 
Sustainable Development Goals. 
Annual Review of Environment and 
Resources, (44), 255-286. https://doi.
org/10.1146/annurev-environ-101718- 
033129
5.  Risk Management Agency. (2019). 
Organic Farming Practices [Fact sheet]. 
US Department of Agriculture. https://
www.rma.usda.gov/Fact-Sheets/
National-Fact-Sheets/Organic-
Farming-Practices
2 . A
RELATED RESOURCES
–  Leading with Soil, Carbon180
–  Transition Book: Priorities for Administrative Action on Carbon  
Removal in 2021+, Carbon180
–  Farm Bill Primer: Federal Crop Insurance, Congressional  
Research Service
 –  Iowa Crop Insurance Discount for Cover Crops, Iowa Farm Bureau
Expand financial and technical assistance to 
drive adoption of soil carbon practices 
Despite growing interest in soil carbon storage in many states, 
insufficient technical and financial assistance, among other barriers, 
significantly hinders the implementation of these agricultural practices. 
As a result, current adoption continues to fall short of a scale relevant for 
addressing climate change. The federal government already has several 
conservation programs that support agricultural producers in 
maintaining carbon-rich, healthy soils. These programs are significantly 
oversubscribed, especially as interest in soil carbon and soil health grows. 
The federal government should increase funding for these programs to 
allow more farmers and ranchers to receive financial support to adopt 
new conservation practices that bolster soil health. Landowners and 
15 
Zero, Then Negative   •   Land-Based Approaches
BY GIANA AMADOR
3.
SCIENCE
Practices need to be 
linked with soil 
health and soil 
carbon outcomes in 
an accessible and 
reproducible way. 
New financial 
incentives and 
tweaks to existing 
incentives can 
reduce barriers to 
adoption and 
encourage durable 
carbon storage.
INCENTIVES
Technical assistance 
and education 
resources are critical 
for farmers and 
ranchers to implement 
new practices and 
capitalize on the value 
of soil health.
EDUCATION
Despite significant 
interest, three core 
barriers continue 
to impede the 
scale of soil carbon 
storage:
extension agents are already familiar with NRCS programs, and the 
programmatic infrastructure for their expansion already exists. A 
significant increase in funding for carbon removal practices in these 
programs could meaningfully stimulate the economy and increase 
agricultural productivity.
Recommendation: Bolster the Environmental 
Quality Incentives Program (EQIP)  
and Conservation Stewardship Program (CSP) 
Increase funding for EQIP by $975 million per year for the next five years. 
Congress should also consider establishing a special initiative under EQIP 
for carbon sequestration, similar to the existing Organic Initiative. It 
could also expand advance payments for costs associated with 
planning, design, materials, equipment, installation, labor, 
management, maintenance, or training typically reserved for 
disadvantaged or new farmers.
Increase funding for CSP by $480 million per year for the next five years. 
To create continuity between programs, reduce administrative burdens 
for producers, and support the maintenance of carbon storage on 
working lands, Congress could authorize an “automatic graduation” 
option that allows EQIP producers to automatically become eligible for 
CSP.
To provide support for the duration of time required to yield full benefits 
for producers, EQIP and CSP should provide cost-share contracts on 
longer timelines, for a minimum of three years (but potentially longer in 
dryland ecosystems or with forestry approaches). In addition, USDA 
should give priority to applications: 
1.   with an explicit focus on carbon storage or the inclusion of practices 
with higher carbon storage potential (including agroforestry and 
forestry practices), and
2.   from historically underrepresented groups in the agriculture and 
forestry industries, including first-time farmers, farmers of color, 
Indigenous land managers, tribes, and young farmers.
Recommendation: Expand the  
Conservation Innovation Grant (CIG) soil 
health demonstration trials 
Congress should increase funding to expand the CIG soil health 
demonstration trials by $100 million per year to establish a minimum of 
16 
Zero, Then Negative   •   Land-Based Approaches
3 . A
3 . B
80 soil health demonstration trials. These trials should cover the full 
geographic and operational diversity of US agriculture. 
These demonstration trials should aim to fill knowledge gaps around 
certain underexplored practices (especially grazing and soil 
amendments). New analysis is likely needed to assess existing 
demonstration projects — including those done by the Long-Term 
Agroecosystem Research (LTAR) Network and the soil health 
demonstration trials funded in the 2018 Farm Bill — and identify high-
priority gaps. The USDA Climate Hubs may be well positioned to carry 
out this analysis and make recommendations for where to focus new 
funding. These trials should also be done in partnership with the USDA’s 
Economic Research Service (ERS) and focus on answering key economic 
questions about the cost of implementation, financial outcomes, 
potential yield increases, and on-farm and on-ranch soil health benefits 
from implementation.
RELATED RESOURCES
–  Leading with Soil, Carbon180
– Rooted in Resilience, Carbon180
Pilot a federal land link program at USDA to 
promote soil carbon storage and support socially 
disadvantaged producers
Land link services began in the early 1990s as a way to connect 
landowners who did not have successors to land seekers, with the aim of 
extending the reach and networks of owners and seekers, and 
facilitating introductions between them.6 The need for land link services 
continues to grow due to various reasons, including the rising cost of 
entry to farming as a profession, the declining number of young people 
getting into farming, the growing consolidation of small and medium 
farms into larger ones, and land use changes.7
In addition to addressing the above issues, land link programs have the 
potential to provide targeted farming, ranching, and land ownership 
opportunities and support for beginning and socially disadvantaged 
agricultural producers, including Black, Indigenous, and People of Color 
(BIPOC), low-income, and immigrant producers.8, 9, 10 By doing so, land 
link programs can address the unequal participation and access to 
agriculture and agricultural support, as well as redress previous 
inequities, such as the monumental land loss experienced by Black 
17 
Zero, Then Negative   •   Land-Based Approaches
BY VANESSA SUAREZ
4.
6.  Valliant, J., Ruhf, K., Gibson, K., Brooks, 
J. R., & Farmer, J. (2019). Fostering 
farm transfers from farm owners to 
unrelated, new farmers: A qualitative 
assessment of farm link services. Land 
Use Policy, 86, 438-447. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.landusepol.2019.05.004 
7.   Valliant, J., Ruhf, K., Gibson, K., Brooks, 
J. R., & Farmer, J. (2019). Fostering 
farm transfers from farm owners to 
unrelated, new farmers: A qualitative 
assessment of farm link services. Land 
Use Policy, 86, 438-447. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.landusepol.2019.05.004
8.   Valliant, J., Ruhf, K., Gibson, K., Brooks, 
J. R., & Farmer. (2019). Fostering farm 
transfers from farm owners to 
unrelated, new farmers: A qualitative 
assessment of farm link services. Land 
Use Policy, 86, 438-447. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.landusepol.2019.05.004
9.   National Young Farmers Coalition. 
(2020). USDA Programs. https://www.
youngfarmers.org/usda-programs/
10.  Tan, R. (2020, January 20). New to the 
country, veterans of the land. The 
Washington Post. https://www.
washingtonpost.com/local/
maryland-news/new-to-the-country-
veterans-of-the-land/2020/01/21/
ee61c13e-3250-11ea-91fd-
82d4e04a3fac_story.html
producers across the US over the past century.11 Land link programs could 
also support maintenance of soil carbon storage in farms and 
agricultural systems by helping landowners pass their land to land 
seekers planning to implement and manage similar conservation 
practices, as well as assist new producers who want to shift the 
operations of an existing farm.12
Currently, there exists no comprehensive federal land link program within 
USDA. Most land link programs operate at the state or local level, and 
are run by community-based organizations, nonprofits, state agencies, 
and similar entities.13, 14 These programs often suffer from having more 
participation from land seekers than current land owners and operators, 
and they generally are not comprehensive in providing vital technical 
and financial support systems for producers, nor is there standardization 
in “best practices” across programs.15, 16 Establishing a comprehensive 
program at the national level could provide listings of land sellers and 
land seekers across the land, facilitate successful land transitions, and 
provide technical and financial support and capacity-building for 
socially disadvantaged and beginning producers. 
Recommendation: Establish a pilot federal land 
link program
USDA should establish a pilot federal land link program to be 
administered by the Farm Service Agency (FSA) that targets the transfer 
of both farm and ranch land. The program’s purpose should be to 
connect retiring producers who have implemented conservation 
practices (including soil carbon storage practices) on their land and 
non-operator landowners who are looking to sell their land with land 
seekers who desire to continue implementing and maintaining 
conservation practices. The program should also support new producers 
seeking to shift the operations of an existing agricultural operation to be 
more sustainable. The program should include listing, linking, and 
matching between producers and land seekers, and it should offer 
facilitation, technical support, document preparation, educational 
opportunities, and transaction, financing, and loan navigation 
assistance to both parties.17 The program should also coordinate closely 
with state and local USDA offices, including FSA offices, to ensure 
comprehensive implementation and support of these services, and to 
foster regional producer networks. Coordination with local USDA offices 
should also seek to provide technical, educational, and cooperative 
assistance opportunities relating to conservation practice 
implementation for the new landowners. The pilot program should 
target the Midwest, Central Plains, West Coast, and Southeast regions.    
The land link program should target and prioritize BIPOC, immigrant, 
beginning, and young producers and other historically socially 
18 
Zero, Then Negative   •   Land-Based Approaches
11.  Castro, A., & Willingham, Z. (2019). 
Progressive Governance Can Turn the 
Tide for Black Farmers. Center for 
American Progress. https://www.
americanprogress.org/issues/
economy/reports/2019/04/03 
/467892/progressive-governance- 
can-turn-tide-black-farmers/
12.  Mulligan, J., Ellison, G., Gasper, R., & 
Rudee, A. (2018). Carbon removal in 
forests and farms in the United States. 
World Resources Institute. https://files.
wri.org/s3fs-public/carbon-removal-
forests-farms-united-states_0.pdf
13.  Beginning Farmers. (2017). Finding 
land to farm. https://www.
beginningfarmers.org/finding-land-
to-farm/
14.  National Young Farmers Coalition. 
(2019). Land Link Directory. https://
www.youngfarmers.org/wp-content/
uploads/2019/10/Land-Link-
Directory-2019.pdf
15.  Valliant, J., Ruhf, K., Gibson, K., Brooks, 
J. R., & Farmer, J. (2019). Fostering 
farm transfers from farm owners to 
unrelated, new farmers: A qualitative 
assessment of farm link services. Land 
Use Policy, 86, 438-447. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.landusepol.2019.05.004
16.  Ruhf, K. (2019). Developing and 
strengthening farm link programs. 
Land for Good. https://landforgood.
org/wp-content/uploads/LFG-Farm-
Link-Guide-Developing-and-
Strengthening-Farm-Link-Programs.
pdf
17.  Valliant, J., Ruhf, K., Gibson, K., Brooks, 
J. R., & Farmer, J. (2019). Fostering 
farm transfers from farm owners to 
unrelated, new farmers: A qualitative 
assessment of farm link services. Land 
Use Policy, 86, 438-447. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.landusepol.2019.05.004
4 . A
disadvantaged groups. Similarly, land link prioritization should be given 
to lands located within BIPOC and low-income communities, where 
regenerative agriculture and conservation practices could have 
demonstrable community and environmental health benefits. The FSA 
should utilize existing assistance mechanisms, including customer service 
and farm loans, as well as provide educational opportunities to best 
support socially disadvantaged producers in the land link process, 
including preferential enrollment and loan rates.
The transfer of working land often takes several years, so impact can 
best be assessed if the program is reviewed about five years after it is 
established. Medium-term metrics should be monitored to evaluate the 
program’s efficacy in connecting landowners and seekers and capacity 
building for socially disadvantaged and beginning producers. After 
evaluation, the FSA should release recommendations on scaling and 
improving the program. 
RELATED RESOURCES
–  Developing and Strengthening Farm Link Programs, Land for Good 
–  Farmers Seeking Land, USDA 
Expand public forests by improving US Forest 
Service (USFS) programs
Forests play an important role in addressing climate change as massive 
carbon sinks that naturally sequester carbon dioxide. The expansion of 
forests can increase these carbon stocks; reforestation efforts have been 
identified as the single largest land-based pathway to increasing carbon 
removal in the US.18 However, it is incredibly important that expanding 
public forests does not translate to ad-hoc, mass tree planting, but is 
instead a science-driven and collaborative effort funded at multiple 
stages. This includes support for high-quality seed collection and nursery 
production, strategic planting with safeguards that protect existing 
carbon-rich and biodiverse lands, and post-planting monitoring.19 
Investment in all stages of holistic tree planting can improve long-term 
health and productivity of forests.
There is growing bipartisan support for large-scale tree-planting 
initiatives through legislative efforts such as the REPLANT Act.20 
Reforestation on public lands is ready to be deployed today; USFS has a 
strong grasp on reforestation best practices across geographies. 
However, financial streams for reforestation on federal lands and 
technical assistance to support tree planting on community and urban 
19 
Zero, Then Negative   •   Land-Based Approaches
BY UGBAAD KOSAR & 
VANESSA SUAREZ
5.
18.   Fargione, J., Bassett, S., Boucher, T., 
Bridgham, S., Conant, R., Cook-Patton, 
S., et al. (2018). Natural climate 
solutions for the United States. Science 
Advances. 4(11), Article eaat1869. 
https://advances.sciencemag.org/
content/4/11/eaat1869
19.  Kosar, U., & G. Amador. (2020). Rooted 
in Resilience. Carbon180. https://
static1.squarespace.com/static/5b9 
362d89d5abb8c51d474f8/t/5f87b42
903dc081162f7caf1/1602729008631/
RootedInResilience+WhitePaper+Web.
pdf
20.  REPLANT Act, S. 866, 117th Congress. 
(2021). https://www.congress.gov/
bill/117th-congress/senate-bill/866/
text?r=1&s=1
lands are currently insufficient. Reforestation efforts can be catalyzed by 
providing grants, expanding existing programs, and establishing a 
Civilian Climate Corps.
Recommendation: Eliminate the cap on the  
Reforestation Trust Fund
USFS should eliminate the cap on the Reforestation Trust Fund to make 
more funds available for reforestation efforts. The Reforestation Trust 
Fund receives funds from tariffs on imported wood products. While 
removing the cap would not increase tariffs, it would unlock more than 
$90 million in additional funds.21
Recommendation: Establish a reforestation grant 
matching program
USFS should establish a grant matching program for reforestation 
projects on federal lands. This program should be made available for 
states, tribes, and NGOs to implement projects. 
Recommendation: Increase funding for the Urban 
and Community Forestry program
USFS should increase funding for the Urban and Community Forestry 
program, providing an additional $150 million per year over 10 years. The 
20 
Zero, Then Negative   •   Land-Based Approaches
Forest carbon 
sequestration
Forest carbon losses via 
fire, logging and 
processing, soil erosion, 
and decomposition
Soil respiration 
returns carbon to 
the atmosphere 
through oxidation
Carbon returns to the 
atmosphere through 
respiration and 
decomposition
Root associative fungi exchange 
minerals for sugars with tree, building 
carbon biomass deep in soil
Trees and vegitation 
fix atmospheric 
carbon through 
photosynthesis
Above ground 
carbon: 
Branches, trunk, 
foliage
Soil organic 
carbon:  
Litter, roots, soil 
macro-organisms, 
fungi, bacteria
Litter adds carbon 
to soil and helps 
retain moisture 
and nutrients
Image adapted from Minnesota Board of Water and Soil Resources
5 . A
5 . B
5 . C
21.  Daley, J. (2020, July 29). How to Grow 
More Trees and Jobs in National 
Forests. Medium. https://
americanforests.medium.com/
how-to-grow-more-trees-and-jobs-in-
national-forests-97bfa6a4cc33t
increases in funding should support the establishment of a matching 
grant program to plant urban forests, prioritizing underserved 
communities with low tree canopy coverage, paired with technical 
assistance provided under the Urban and Community Forestry program’s 
focus areas.22
Recommendation: Establish the Civilian  
Climate Corps 
Read more about this recommendation on page 25.
Establish dedicated funding at DOI and USDA to 
protect and restore existing public forests
There are substantial amounts of carbon stored in America’s forests, 
sequestering approximately 12% of US annual emissions.23 The National 
Forest System spans 193 million acres, encompassing a quarter of all US 
forests; another 140 million acres of public forest are community forests 
in cities and towns.24, 25 The carbon stored in these systems is at risk of 
being released back into the atmosphere because of competing land 
use priorities, frequent natural disasters, and pest and disease 
outbreaks. In 2020, more than 40% of US forests were at risk from pest 
and disease invasion, and wildfires released about 200 million tons of 
CO2.26, 27  Climate change is directly linked to worsening wildfires and 
outbreaks, which increase tree mortality and release more CO2 into the 
atmosphere, further perpetuating this cycle. Rapid development along 
the wildland-urban interface (WUI) increases the likelihood of human-
caused wildfires, putting lives and homes at risk.
A significant portion of existing forest carbon stocks can be found in 
old-growth forests on federal lands.28 There is also a backlog of forest 
restoration projects that needs to be addressed to rehabilitate forest 
ecosystems damaged by natural disasters. Avoided forest conversion, 
proforestation, and forest restoration are relatively low-cost pathways 
that are shovel-ready for deployment. These efforts can protect 
watersheds, help combat invasive species, minimize risk to nearby 
communities and firefighters, create jobs, and could save millions of 
dollars over the long term from avoided wildfires and outbreaks.
21 
Zero, Then Negative   •   Land-Based Approaches
22.  US Forest Service. (2020). Urban and 
Community Forestry Program. US 
Department of Agriculture.  https://
www.fs.usda.gov/managing-land/
urban-forests/ucf
23.  Hoover, K., & Riddle, A. (2020). US 
Forest Carbon Data: In Brief. 
Congressional Research Service. 
https://fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/R46313.
pdf
24.  Hoover, K., & Riddle, A. (2019). 
National Forest System Management: 
Overview, Appropriations, and Issues 
for Congress. Congressional Research 
Service. https://crsreports.congress.
gov/product/pdf/R/R43872 
25.  US Forest Service. (2020). Urban and 
Community Forestry Program. US 
Department of Agriculture. https://
www.fs.usda.gov/managing-land/
urban-forests/ucf 
26.  Fei, S., Morin, R. S., Oswalt, C. M., & 
Liebhold, A. M. (2019). Biomass losses 
resulting from insect and disease 
invasions in US forests. Proceedings of 
the National Academy of Sciences. 
116(35), 17371-17376. https://doi.
org/10.1073/pnas.1820601116
27.   Lombrana, L., & Rathi, A. (2020, 
September 16). California Fires Are 
Emitting Record Amounts of Carbon 
Dioxide. Bloomberg Green. https://
www.bloomberg.com/news/
articles/2020-09-16/california-fires-
are-emitting-record-amounts-of-
carbon-dioxide
28.  Moomaw, W. R., Masino, S. A., & 
Faison, E. K. (2019). Intact Forests in 
the United States: Proforestation 
Mitigates Climate Change and Serves 
the Greatest Good. Frontiers in Forests 
and Global Change, 2(27). https://doi.
org/10.3389/ffgc.2019.00027
BY UGBAAD KOSAR & 
VANESSA SUAREZ
6.
5 . C
Recommendation: Invest in holistic forest 
restoration on federal lands that protects 
existing carbon stocks and increases ecological 
resilience
•   Provide an additional $20 million per year over five years for the Forest 
Health Management Program on Cooperative Lands to improve and 
protect the health of federal forests. Technical assistance and 
outreach from this program should prioritize providing direct 
assistance to federal forest land managers on biological evaluations, 
site visits, and training.
•   Provide an additional $40 million per year over five years for the 
Collaborative Forest Landscape Restoration Program (CFLRP). This 
program leverages local resources that provide jobs and sustain rural 
economies. Projects that participate in CFLRP should target high-
priority activities that fall within the WUI and have demonstrable 
carbon storage benefits. 
•   Provide an additional $80 million per year over the next five years for 
the Vegetation and Watershed Management program to fund forest 
restoration projects, targeting those with demonstrable carbon 
sequestration and resilience benefits.
•   Expand capacity of nurseries and seed extractories to meet growing 
reforestation efforts. A new study highlights seed nursery capacity 
must be more than doubled to reforest over 66 million acres of 
available land by 2040.29 Nursery infrastructure can be expanded by 
removing the cap on the Reforestation Trust Fund or leveraging USDA 
Rural Development business loan guarantees.
READ MORE
Read more about removing the cap on the Reforestation Trust Fund  
on page 20. 
Recommendation: Invest in responsible,  
science-driven wildfire management and  
post-fire rehabilitation to reduce wildfire impact  
and support natural regeneration efforts of 
federal forests
•   Provide an additional $100 million per year over five years for the USDA 
Hazardous Fuels program and an additional $60 million per year over 
five years for the DOI Hazardous Fuels Management program. 
22 
Zero, Then Negative   •   Land-Based Approaches
GLOSSARY
Wildland-urban 
interface (WUI) 
A zone of transition where 
buildings, homes, and other 
developments meet or 
intermingle with undeveloped 
wildland vegetation.
Proforestation 
Growing an existing forest 
intact to reach its full 
ecological potential.
6 . A
6 . B
29.  Fargione, J., et al. (2021). Challenges 
to the Reforestation Pipeline in the 
United States. Frontiers in Forests and 
Global Change. https://www.
frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/
ffgc.2021.629198/full
Congress should direct USDA and DOI to ensure that any thinning or 
silvicultural practices aimed at minimizing fuel loads are targeting 
highest priority regions (such as WUIs) and are applied sustainably, 
aiming to optimize carbon storage and maintain ecological integrity. 
USDA and DOI programs should aim to remove small-diameter 
branches and underbrush, avoiding the removal of mature trees or 
those found in backcountry regions whenever possible. 
•   Provide an additional $10 million per year over five years for the USDA 
Burned Area Emergency Response program. In addition to increased 
funding, this program should be expanded to incorporate longer-term 
(a minimum of five years) post-fire rehabilitation activities on federal 
lands, modeled after the DOI’s Burned Area Rehabilitation program. 
•   The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) should establish 
a community wildfire defense grant program to improve community 
resilience and land-use planning along the WUI. Grants should 
prioritize state, local, or tribal governments that can support low-
income communities in fire-prone areas. USFS should develop and 
publish a map depicting at-risk communities.
Recommendation: Strengthen forest  
conservation efforts to protect existing carbon 
stocks on public lands
USDA and DOI should establish a national forest carbon reserve that 
aims to identify, protect, and restore carbon-rich forest ecosystems. This 
reserve can extend protections for high-priority, primary forests that can 
both protect existing carbon stores and keep ecological integrity of 
forest ecosystems intact.
SIMILAR POLICIES 
Wildfire Disaster Funding Act of 2017 
Ensures that wildfires are funded as natural disasters and protects agencies’ 
fire prevention budgets by putting a freeze on the rising budget costs of the 
10-year average.
Wildfire Defense Act of 2020 
Would set aside $1 billion each year to pay for better infrastructure, land-use, 
and evacuation route planning in fire-prone communities.
RELATED RESOURCE 
Forest Carbon Reserve, Sierra Club
23 
Zero, Then Negative   •   Land-Based Approaches
6 . C
GLOSSARY
Silvicultural practices 
Any practices involving the 
growing or cultivation of trees.
Establish dedicated funding streams to conserve 
and restore private forest lands 
Forests cover one-third of US lands, and nearly two-thirds of those 
forests are privately owned.30 Most opportunities to protect and restore 
carbon stocks in US trees are on private lands.31 However, this 
opportunity remains largely untapped and underexplored. There is 
increasing pressure to develop private forestland and inadequate 
federal assistance options for private forestland owners interested in 
remaining engaged and financially incentivized to protect and 
sustainably manage their forestlands.
Improving financial and technical assistance can help retain existing 
private forestland and incentivize management practices that store 
carbon. Reforestation and restoration are shovel-ready, low-cost carbon 
removal solutions that present significant opportunities to remove  
and store carbon dioxide today.32 There are also significant social, 
economic, and environmental co-benefits to conserving and restoring 
private forestlands for both owners and surrounding communities. 
Despite this, existing programs are not sufficient to address  
both the demand and needs of private forest landowners under a 
changing climate. 
Recommendation: Establish dedicated funding 
streams to better address the financial burden 
on private forest landowners to conserve and 
restore trees
•   Increase EQIP funding streams dedicated to expand forest 
management practices covering invasive species treatment, 
agroforestry expansion, tree planting and monitoring, and other 
practices. NRCS should also cover more upfront costs required to 
prepare lands for tree restoration activities. 
•   Increase the enrollment acreage threshold by 15 million acres to 
expand eligibility for the Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) 
program. This would allow for the inclusion of forestation practices on 
historically forested lands that are now classified as unproductive or 
abandoned farmland.
•   Direct Congress to guarantee dedicated funding streams to support 
the Forest Legacy Program (currently funded by the Land and Water 
Conservation Fund) and the Healthy Forests Reserve Program 
(discretionary funding administered by NRCS). Both of these programs 
24 
Zero, Then Negative   •   Land-Based Approaches
BY UGBAAD KOSAR
7.
7 . A
30.  Alvares, M. (2018). The State of 
America’s Forests. US Endowment for 
Forestry and Communities. https://
www.arcgis.com/apps/Cascade/
index.wappid=d80a4 
ffed7e044219bbd973a77bea8e6 
31.  Mulligan, J., Rudee, A., Lebling, K., 
Levin, K., Anderson, J., & Christensen, 
B. (2020, January). Carbonshot: 
Federal Policy Options for Carbon 
Removal in the United States. World 
Resources Institute. https://www.wri.
org/publication/carbonshot-federal-
policy-options-for-carbon-removal-in-
the-united-states 
32.  Mulligan, J., Rudee, A., Lebling, K., 
Levin, K., Anderson, J., & Christensen, 
B. (2020, January). Carbonshot: 
Federal Policy Options for Carbon 
Removal in the United States. World 
Resources Institute. https://www.wri.
org/publication/carbonshot-federal-
policy-options-for-carbon-removal-in-
the-united-states
are significantly under-resourced but provide critical financial support 
to landowners looking to conserve and protect their forestlands.
•   Establish a federal subsidy for forest restoration through a practice-
based tax credit. 
RELATED RESOURCES
–  Achieving the Mid-Century Strategy Goals for Deep Decarbonization in 
Agriculture and Forestry, The Nicholas Institute for Environmental Policy 
Solutions 
–  Natural Carbon Solutions in US Farms and Forests: Building a Policy Agenda 
for Congressional Action, Bipartisan Policy Center
Establish a Civilian Climate Corps to address 
climate change and provide employment  
opportunities for US communities
The Civilian Conservation Corps (CCC) was a voluntary public work relief 
program established as part of Roosevelt’s New Deal programs. The CCC 
was a cross-agency effort, including the National Park Service (NPS), 
USDA, USFS, and DOI. Program activities encompassed firefighting, tree 
planting, and roads construction and maintenance. Over the course of 
the program, more than 3 billion trees were planted, and trails and 
shelters were constructed in more than 800 parks.33
The COVID-19 pandemic and subsequent economic fallout resulted in 
similar impacts seen during the Great Depression, including significant 
food, housing, and unemployment hardships across the US. In April 2020, 
the unemployment rate jumped to a level not seen since the 1930s — 
and still stood at 6.7% in December 2020.34 In addition to these 
hardships, record wildfires, hurricanes, and other natural disasters 
exacerbated by climate change have devastated all parts of the US, 
releasing unprecedented amounts of carbon dioxide into the 
atmosphere.35 BIPOC and low-income communities have borne 
disproportionate burdens of both COVID-19 and climate change. 
Building on the recent executive order released by President Biden and 
previous legislative efforts, the CCC from the New Deal era should be 
re-established as the Civilian Climate Corps with updated priorities, 
roles, responsibilities, and project components to promote community 
resilience, preparedness, and leadership.36
25 
Zero, Then Negative   •   Land-Based Approaches
BY UGBAAD KOSAR & 
VANESSA SUAREZ
8.
33.  History. (2019). Civilian Conservation 
Corps. https://www.history.com/
topics/great-depression/civilian-
conservation-corps
34.  Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. 
(2021, April 22). Tracking the COVID-19 
Recession’s Effects on Food, Housing, 
and Employment Hardships. https://
www.cbpp.org/research/poverty-
and-inequality/tracking-the-covid-
19-recessions-effects-on-food-
housing-and
35.  National Centers for Environmental 
Information. (2021). Billion-Dollar 
Weather and Climate Disasters. 
National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration. https://www.ncdc.
noaa.gov/billions/ 
36.  The White House (2021, January 27). 
President Biden Takes Executive 
Actions to Tackle the Climate Crisis at 
Home and Abroad, Create Jobs, and 
Restore Scientific Integrity Across 
Federal Government [Fact sheet]. 
https://www.whitehouse.gov/
briefing-room/statements-
releases/2021/01/27/fact-sheet-
president-biden-takes-executive-
actions-to-tackle-the-climate-crisis-
at-home-and-abroad-create-jobs-
and-restore-scientific-integrity-
across-federal-government/
Recommendation: Establish the Civilian  
Climate Corps 
USDA and DOI should establish the Civilian Climate Corps as a cross-
agency program, with additional program coordination with the 
Department of Labor, the National Ocean and Atmospheric 
Administration (NOAA), Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), and 
other federal agencies relevant to land-based carbon removal solutions.
The Civilian Climate Corps program’s priority areas should strive to 
address climate change by: 
•  conserving and restoring public lands and watersheds,  
•  bolstering reforestation and post-planting monitoring efforts,
•  increasing wetland restoration efforts, 
•  improving community resilience, 
•  increasing soil carbon storage on farms and ranches, 
•  promoting urban agriculture and urban forestry, 
•  protecting biodiversity, and
•  improving access to recreational opportunities on public lands.
USDA and DOI should ensure recruitment efforts, program design, and 
implementation to address the needs of BIPOC and low-income 
communities. In doing so, the program should provide well-paying union 
jobs that meet strong labor standards. The Corps can also provide robust 
vocational opportunities in communities, partnering with local 
community-based organizations, nonprofits, community colleges, and 
related organizations whenever possible.
RELATED RESOURCES
– Biden’s Civilian Climate Corps, Grist
–  Grant Program Highlights, Corporation for National and Community Service
Expand the Agricultural Conservation Easement 
Program-Wetlands Reserve Easements (ACEP-
WRE) and CRP to bolster wetland conservation
Wetlands can be a powerful climate tool, acting as natural carbon sinks 
that can store carbon for hundreds to thousands of years. US wetlands 
alone store nearly 34 billion tons of carbon, primarily in deep soils.37 
26 
Zero, Then Negative   •   Land-Based Approaches
8 . A
BY MAYA GLICKSMAN & 
VANESSA SUAREZ
9.
37.   Kolka, R., Trettin, C., Tang, W., Krauss, 
K., Bansal, S., Drexler, J., Wickland, K., 
Chimner, R., Hogan, D., Pindilli, E. J., 
Benscoter, B., Tangen, B., Kane, E., 
Bridgham, S., & Richardson, C. (2018). 
Second State of the Carbon Cycle 
Report: Terrestrial Wetlands). US 
Global Change Research Program. 
Chapter 13, 507-567. https://doi.
org/10.7930/SOCCR2.2018. 
However, when natural wetlands are converted to other land uses or are 
subjected to disturbances, they release the stored carbon back into the 
atmosphere.38 Protecting and restoring natural wetlands in the US pose 
a large opportunity to scale up land-based carbon removal.
In addition to enhancing natural carbon removal, wetland conservation 
can provide myriad co-benefits for coastal communities. Wetlands can 
mitigate natural hazards (e.g., protection from powerful waves), restore 
fisheries, enhance biodiversity, bolster community climate resilience, 
increase community adaptive capabilities to natural disasters (e.g., 
floods, droughts, and storm runoff), improve local water quality, and 
provide new job and economic opportunities.39, 40
Past policies have focused on net wetland acreage alone, incentivizing 
creation of new wetlands to “offset” losses elsewhere, rather than 
conserving and restoring natural wetlands.41 Based on acreage numbers 
alone, net wetland loss has slowed dramatically in recent decades. 
However, these numbers fail to account for losses in carbon stocks, 
ecological integrity, and ecosystem services when natural wetlands are 
destroyed. If expanded and improved, the ACEP-WRE and CRP could 
significantly increase the US land carbon sink by protecting and 
restoring wetlands.
Recommendation: Improve and expand  
ACEP-WRE
In fiscal year (FY) 2019, ACEP-WRE enrolled only 9% of the lands it 
received applications for, leaving approximately 372,000 acres 
unfunded.42 NRCS should increase program funding to $100 million per 
year over four years to increase enrollment and expand services. Rather 
than focusing solely on acreage as past policies have, NRCS should 
provide expanded technical assistance to landowners to create long-
term conservation plans that explicitly promote carbon storage and 
resiliency benefits. The program should prioritize enrollment of lands 
with high carbon sequestration potential and significant climate 
resilience benefits for coastal communities. 
Recommendation: Improve and expand CRP
Under the current Farm Bill, the CRP provides funds for wetland 
protection and restoration, but the majority of the program’s funds are 
spent on upland habitats.43 The FSA should increase the acreage 
enrollment cap from 27.5 million to 32 million acres and increase funding 
for the program overall by an additional $800 million per year. The FSA 
should prioritize enrollment of lands with high carbon sequestration and 
climate resilience potential and prioritize planting native species to 
bolster natural carbon accumulation.
38.  Minnesota Board of Water and Soil 
Resources. (n.d.). Carbon 
Sequestration in Wetlands. http://
bwsr.state.mn.us/carbon-sequestr 
ation-wetlands#:~:text=All%20
wetlands%20sequester%20
carbon%20from,instances%2C%20
over%20thousands%20of%20years
39.  State of Washington Department of 
Ecology. (n.d.). Wetlands & climate 
change. https://ecology.wa.gov/
Water-Shorelines/Wetlands/
Tools-resources/Wetlands-climate-
change#:~:text=Wetlands%20
can%20reduce%20the%20
effects,species%20move%20to%20
better%20areas
40.  US Environmental Protection Agency. 
(2015). Connectivity of Streams and 
Wetlands To Downstream Waters: A 
Review and Synthesis of the Scientific 
Evidence (Final Report). https://cfpub.
epa.gov/ncea/risk/recordisplay.
cfm?deid=296414
41.  Dahl, T. E. (2011). Status and Trends of 
Wetlands in the Conterminous United 
States 2004 to 2009. US Department 
of the Interior, US Fish and Wildlife 
Service. https://www.fws.gov/
wetlands/Documents/Status-and-
Trends-of-Wetlands-in-the-
Conterminous-United-States-2004-
to-2009.pdf
42.  Stubbs, M. (2020). Agricultural 
Conservation: A Guide to Programs. 
Congressional Research Service. 
https://fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/R40763.
pdf
43.  Sibbing, J. M. (2004). Nowhere Near 
No Net Loss. National Wildlife 
Federation. https://www.nwf.org/~/
media/PDFs/Wildlife/Nowhere_
Near_No-Net-Loss.pdf
9 . A
9 . B
GLOSSARY
Upland habitats 
High, dry, non-wetland 
habitats.
27 
Zero, Then Negative   •   Land-Based Approaches
RELATED RESOURCES
– Wetlands: An Overview of Issues, Congressional Research Service
–  Wetlands In a Changing Climate: Science, Policy and Management,  
Mark Brinson Review
Expand the Forest Inventory and Analysis 
(FIA) program to improve centralized forest 
carbon data activities
The FIA program, housed within USFS, is the primary data source on the 
status, conditions, and trends of US forests and forest resources.44 This 
data is essential in revising land management plans under the National 
Forest Management Act (NFMA). Currently, the FIA cannot keep up with 
demand. 
Standard FIA plots are too spread out in many regions to meet analysis 
needs, and many regional offices must intensify data sampling if 
resources allow. Current FIA plot remeasurement is also too infrequent 
— occurring every five years, at most — to document drastic changes 
that occur from year to year, including disturbances such as wildfires, 
insect and disease outbreaks, and extreme weather events. The 
complexity of the database and supporting tools makes it challenging 
for non-expert users to access data beyond that included in standard 
reports. 
To accurately compare the carbon impacts of different forest 
management practices and improve land management planning under 
a changing climate, the FIA must strengthen data collection, analysis, 
and reporting capacity.
Recommendation: Expand the FIA plot network
FIA must intensify baseline sampling resolution based on regional needs 
to provide data that is both complete and useful to local land managers. 
This expansion is necessary to fill massive gaps in current FIA data.
Recommendation: Accelerate data collection and 
enhance data quality
FIA should require plot remeasurement every three years to account for 
and accurately represent short-term disturbances and ecological 
28 
Zero, Then Negative   •   Land-Based Approaches
BY MAYA GLICKSMAN & 
UGBAAD KOSAR
10.
10 . A
44.   US Forest Service. (n.d.). Forest 
Inventory and Analysis National 
Program: FIA Contributions to 
National and Global Reporting. US 
Department of Agriculture, US Forest 
Service. https://www.fia.fs.fed.us/
program-features/NationalGlobal_
Reporting/
10 . B
changes. FIA should also utilize advanced aboveground and 
belowground monitoring tools, including lidar, to improve data quality 
and models while reducing ground sampling costs. 
Recommendation: Improve accessibility of  
FIA data
Many land and natural resource managers must partner with data 
scientists (e.g., USFS R&D scientists) to obtain and use FIA data.45 FIA 
should create new comprehensive support tools for navigating 
databases, creating custom analysis reports, and interpreting data to 
make this information accessible to those without technical data 
expertise.
RELATED RESOURCES
–  Carbon Removal in Forests and Farms in the United States,  
World Resources Institute 
–  Using Forest Inventory and Analysis Data to Support National Forest 
Management: Regional Case Studies, Journal of Forestry
Invest in innovation grants and life cycle  
assessments (LCAs) to advance durable  
emerging wood technologies 
Conventional building materials (e.g., concrete and steel) are emissions-
intensive products. The production of cement, a key ingredient in 
conventional concrete, accounts for about 8% of total global CO2 
emissions annually.46 Substituting a portion of these materials with 
emerging wood technologies, such as cross-laminated timber, can both 
avoid emissions associated with the production of traditional building 
materials and also store carbon long term. However, more RD&D is 
needed to understand the definitive role of innovative wood technology 
as a climate mitigation tool. 
Future incentives for wood products must be tied to robust 
environmental safeguards and LCAs that require sustainable forest 
management practices. Investing in RD&D of burgeoning and innovative 
wood technologies can play an important role in incentivizing 
landowners to invest in and maintain private forests and create 
29 
Zero, Then Negative   •   Land-Based Approaches
10 . C
45.  Hoover, C., Bush, R., Palmer, M., & 
Treasure, E. (2020). Using Forest 
Inventory and Analysis Data to 
Support National Forest 
Management: Regional Case Studies. 
Journal of Forestry, 118(3), 313–323. 
https://doi.org/10.1093/jofore/fvz073
46.  Lehne, J., & Preston, F. (2018, June). 
Making Concrete Change: Innovation 
in Low-Carbon Cement and Concrete. 
Chatham House, The Royal Institute 
of International Affairs. https://www.
chathamhouse.org/2018/06/
making-concrete-change-innovation-
low-carbon-cement-and-concrete
BY MAYA GLICKSMAN & 
UGBAAD KOSAR
11.
diversified economic opportunities in rural areas. The 2018 Farm Bill 
established a research, development, education, and technical 
assistance program, including a competitive Wood Innovation Grant 
program, to facilitate the use of wood products for building and 
construction. Although this program is a strong first step, the federal 
government must continue to expand RD&D efforts to understand the 
carbon benefits, substitution potential, and life cycle impacts of 
emerging wood products.
Recommendation: Provide an additional  
$10 million over the next five years for USFS 
Wood Innovation Grants 
Wood Innovation Grants fund projects exploring wood as a construction 
material in commercial buildings to stimulate and ultimately expand 
wood markets. Congress should direct USDA to enhance coordination 
with compatible programs at DOI and DOE to identify opportunities to 
advance sustainable wood product innovation. USFS should prioritize 
projects to demonstrate real-world durability of innovative wood 
products as building materials to address concerns among construction 
professionals. Projects should also work to identify best maintenance 
practices to ensure that emerging wood building materials are long-
lasting, resilient, and safe.
Recommendation: USFS should collaborate with 
EPA to develop and conduct LCAs of engineered 
wood products 
USFS should draw from the EPA’s National Risk Management Research 
Laboratory (NRMRL) guidelines for LCAs and develop guidelines specific 
to emerging wood technologies.47 Many cradle-to-gate LCAs exist for 
various wood products,48 but USFS and EPA should prioritize full cradle-
to-grave assessments. Cradle-to-grave LCAs should integrate analyses 
of net greenhouse gas (GHG) balances, required land, and social, 
economic, and ecosystem costs, as well as how innovative wood 
products compare with incumbent building materials.49 LCAs should 
explore how different forest management practices impact life cycle 
carbon emissions of wood products and whether or how these products 
can be reclaimed at the end of life. Careful evaluation of permanence, 
additionality, and leakage concerns should also be included.
30 
Zero, Then Negative   •   Land-Based Approaches
47.  Scientific Applications International 
Corporation. (2006). Life Cycle 
Assessment: Principles and Practice. 
National Risk Management Research 
Laboratory, Office of Research and 
Development, US Environmental 
Protection Agency. https://nepis.epa.
gov/Exe/ZyPDF.cgi/P1000L86.
PDF?Dockey=P1000L86.PDF
48.  Consortium for Research on 
Renewable Industrial Materials. 
(2021). Library of LCAs on Wood 
Products. https://corrim.org/
lcas-on-wood-products-library/
49.  National Academies of Sciences, 
Engineering, and Medicine. (2019). 
Negative Emissions Technologies and 
Reliable Sequestration: A Research 
Agenda. Washington, DC: The 
National Academies Press. https://
www.nap.edu/read/25259/
chapter/5#126
GLOSSARY
Cross-laminated timber 
A type of prefabricated solid 
wood panel, which consists 
of several layers of dimension 
lumber stacked crosswise at 
right angles.
Cradle-to-gate life cycle 
assessments (LCAs) 
Analyses that incorporate 
the impacts of any processes 
between extraction of a 
resource and production of a 
finished product. 
Cradle-to-grave life cycle 
assessments (LCAs) 
Analyses that extend beyond 
cradle-to-gate analyses, 
incorporating the impacts of 
any processes from extraction 
of resources to the production, 
use, and disposal of a finished 
product.
11 . A
11 . B
RELATED RESOURCES
– LCA as an assessment tool, CDR Primer
–  Negative Emissions Technologies and Reliable Sequestration: A Research 
Agenda, National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine
Invest in social science research to identify  
and reduce barriers to participating in USDA 
assistance programs
Incentive and assistance programs are instrumental tools to help scale 
up soil and forest carbon storage. Increasing program participation is 
critical to support land managers looking to adopt practices that store 
carbon. In particular, identifying the unique barriers that underserved 
forest landowners and agriculture producers face in accessing USDA 
programs can help address their disproportionately low participation 
rates.50 A lack of research about the unique values, interests, and 
barriers of underserved forest landowners and farmers leaves a critical 
knowledge gap for making forest and agriculture assistance programs 
accessible and inclusive.
Robust economic and social science research can provide the baseline 
information needed to understand the economic, social, and cultural 
factors that affect land managers’ decision-making, paving the way for 
equitable and accessible policy design.
Recommendation: Invest in social science  
research to increase program enrollment
USFS research stations should receive an additional $3 million per year 
over five years to administer new research projects regionally. To 
understand barriers faced by agriculture producers, ERS should receive 
an additional $5 million per year over five years to address the below 
research areas, taking into consideration the diversity of agricultural 
operations across the US.
Research in respective agencies should collect qualitative and 
quantitative data along with landowner recommendations for 
improvement in the following focus areas: 
•   Administrative barriers include paperwork, online interfaces, and 
general accessibility of the program enrollment process.
31 
Zero, Then Negative   •   Land-Based Approaches
BY MAYA GLICKSMAN & 
UGBAAD KOSAR
12.
50.  Butler, S. M., Schelhas, J. & Butler, B. 
J. (2019). Minority Family Forest 
Owners in the United States. Journal 
of Forestry, 118(1), 70–85. https://doi.
org/10.1093/jofore/fvz060
12 . A
•   Cost analysis can quantify variation in the cost of implementing 
carbon-minded management practices that may affect adoption and 
inform future incentive design. Costs may vary by region, social 
landscape, and management practice.
•   Technical assistance barriers and needs may vary by region, social 
landscape, and management practices. Studies should examine how 
landowners perceive the types, effectiveness, and accessibility of 
technical assistance offered.
•   Social, behavioral, and cultural factors may affect participation, land 
ownership, and management strategies along regional or 
demographic lines. Such factors may include social norms, perception 
of risk, and environmental consciousness, among others.
•   Barriers specific to underserved land managers may contribute to 
historically low participation in forestry and agriculture assistance 
programs within these communities. Studies should offer unrestricted, 
open-ended space for landowners to share their experiences, 
thoughts, and recommendations candidly.
•   Regional trends show how a variety of factors influence participation 
at-large. All research should include detailed spatial analysis to guide 
region-specific improvements to assistance programs.
RELATED RESOURCES
–  Carbon Removal in Forests and Farms in the United States,  
World Resources Institute 
– Minority Family Forest Owners in US, Journal of Forestry
Expand research and governance for  
marine-based carbon removal through federal 
program creation and international cooperation 
Oceans play a key role in the climate system, acting as massive heat 
and carbon sinks and naturally capturing carbon and storing it on a 
medium- to long-term basis.51 Climate change has already begun to 
have adverse effects on oceans and marine environments. Through 
increased concentrations of carbon in the ocean, marine ecosystems are 
32 
Zero, Then Negative   •   Land-Based Approaches
BY VANESSA SUAREZ
13.
51.  Carnegie Climate Governance 
Initiative. (2019). Governing Marine 
Carbon Dioxide Removal and Solar 
Radiation Modification. https://www.
c2g2.net/wp-content/uploads/c2g_
evidencebrief_marine.pdf
experiencing ocean acidification, ocean warming, and  
deoxygenation.52, 53 Marine carbon removal, which enhances the ocean’s 
uptake and storage of carbon, is an important piece of the carbon 
removal portfolio and can aid in addressing the impacts of climate on 
ocean ecosystems.54 
At scale, marine-based carbon removal can sequester billions of tons of 
carbon dioxide due to the sheer size of oceans, the absence of land-use 
complications, and the wide variety of approaches.55 This portfolio of 
solutions spans ocean fertilization, micro- and macro-algae cultivation, 
coastal blue carbon, up- and down-welling, ocean alkalinization, and 
seawater carbon extraction.56, 57 In addition to enhancing natural carbon 
removal, marine approaches can provide myriad co-benefits, including 
reducing ocean acidification, improving fishery yields, producing 
feedstocks for a variety of products, and increasing biodiversity.58, 59 
However, many of these technologies and practices are not 
technologically ready, and they will require large investments in RD&D to 
advance and equitably commercialize the leading approaches.60, 61  
Moreover, marine carbon removal will require appropriate governance 
frameworks at the national and international levels, as oceans are 
considered global commons.62, 63 Policy support is necessary to advance 
RD&D efforts, establish a new program dedicated to marine carbon 
removal, and foster and support international collaboration.
Recommendation: Bolster RD&D efforts to  
spur dedicated support for marine carbon  
removal innovation 
Congress should authorize a new cross-agency program, led by NOAA, in 
collaboration with DOE, the Department of Defense (DOD), and NSF, 
dedicated to marine carbon removal methods. The program should take 
inventory of the various marine carbon removal approaches and their 
differing readiness levels, carbon removal potentials, potential adverse 
impacts, potential co-benefits, and key needs for advancement. The 
program should be funded at $2 billion over the next 10 years.64
Recommendation: Establish and promote  
appropriate national and international  
governance frameworks 
The cross-agency marine carbon removal program led by NOAA should 
establish robust frameworks for public engagement and support, and 
ensure inclusion of the public in decision-making surrounding research, 
development, and demonstration of marine carbon removal 
33 
Zero, Then Negative   •   Land-Based Approaches
52.  Energy Futures Initiative. (2020). 
Uncharted Waters: Expanding the Options 
for Carbon Dioxide Removal in Coastal and 
Ocean Environments. https://static1.squa 
respace.com/static/58ec123cb3db2bd 
94e057628/t/6011a63f65321405af5468
1f/16117 69420810/Uncharted+Waters.pdf
53.  Lebling, K., & Northrop, E. (2020). 
Leveraging the Ocean’s Carbon Removal 
Potential. World Resources Institute. 
https://www.wri.org/blog/2020/10/
ocean-carbon-dioxide-sequestration
54.  Carnegie Climate Governance Initiative. 
(2019). Governing Marine Carbon Dioxide 
Removal and Solar Radiation 
Modification. https://www.c2g2.net/
wp-content/uploads/c2g_evidencebrief_
marine.pdf
55.  Energy Futures Initiative. (2020). 
Uncharted Waters: Expanding the Options 
for Carbon Dioxide Removal in Coastal and 
Ocean Environments. https://static1.squa 
respace.com/static/58ec123cb3db2bd 
94e057628/t/6011a63f65321405af5468
1f/16117 69420810/Uncharted+Waters.pdf
56.  Energy Futures Initiative. (2020). 
Uncharted Waters: Expanding the Options 
for Carbon Dioxide Removal in Coastal and 
Ocean Environments. https://static1.squa 
respace.com/static/58ec123cb3db2bd 
94e057628/t/6011a63f65321405af5468
1f/16117 69420810/Uncharted+Waters.pdf
57.  Carnegie Climate Governance Initiative. 
(2019). Governing Marine Carbon Dioxide 
Removal and Solar Radiation Modification. 
https://www.c2g2.net/wp-content/
uploads/c2g_evidencebrief_marine.pdf
58.  Energy Futures Initiative. (2020). 
Uncharted Waters: Expanding the Options 
for Carbon Dioxide Removal in Coastal and 
Ocean Environments. https://static1.squa 
respace.com/static/58ec123cb3db2bd 
94e057628/t/6011a63f65321405af5468
1f/16117 69420810/Uncharted+Waters.pdf
59.  Lebling, K., & Northrop, E. (2020). 
Leveraging the Ocean’s Carbon Removal 
Potential. World Resources Institute. 
https://www.wri.org/blog/2020/10/
ocean-carbon-dioxide-sequestration
60.  Carnegie Climate Governance Initiative. 
(2019). Governing Marine Carbon Dioxide 
Removal and Solar Radiation 
Modification. https://www.c2g2.net/
wp-content/uploads/c2g_evidencebrief_
marine.pdf
61.  Energy Futures Initiative. (2020).  
Uncharted Waters: Expanding the Options 
for Carbon Dioxide Removal in Coastal and 
Ocean Environments. https://static1.squa 
respace.com/static/58ec123cb3db2bd 
94e057628/t/6011a63f65321405af5468
1f/16117 69420810/Uncharted+Waters.pdf
62.  Lebling, K., & Northrop, E. (2020). 
Leveraging the Ocean’s Carbon Removal 
Potential. World Resources Institute. 
https://www.wri.org/blog/2020/10/
ocean-carbon-dioxide-sequestration
13 . A
13 . B
approaches. Specifically, the program should actively seek community 
engagement and acceptance from coastal communities, including 
fishing, low-income, and BIPOC communities. The program should also 
ensure the best and most up-to-date scientific data is available, 
promote scientific coordination and collaboration, and incorporate 
scientific findings into decision-making processes. Lastly, the program 
should establish an advisory board with membership from the groups 
and communities mentioned above. 
The US should also lead in the development and creation of new 
international agreements that meaningfully incorporate marine carbon 
removal. These agreements should do their best to promote 
environmental safeguards; transparency; robust accounting and 
reporting methods; mechanisms for technology, monetary, and 
information transfer between Global North and Global South countries; 
meaningful participation from Global South countries; cooperative 
RD&D efforts; frameworks for ethical responsibility in technology 
implementation; and robust methodologies for public and stakeholder 
engagement. 
RELATED RESOURCES
–  Governing Marine CDR and SRM, C2G
–  Leveraging the Ocean’s Carbon Removal Potential, World Resources Institute
–  Uncharted Waters, Energy Futures Initiative
34 
Zero, Then Negative   •   Land-Based Approaches
63.  Carnegie Climate Governance Initiative. 
(2019). Governing Marine Carbon Dioxide 
Removal and Solar Radiation Modification. 
https://www.c2g2.net/wp-content/
uploads/c2g_evidencebrief_marine.pdf
64.  Energy Futures Initiative. (2020). 
Uncharted Waters: Expanding the Options 
for Carbon Dioxide Removal in Coastal and 
Ocean Environments. https://static1.squa 
respace.com/static/58ec123cb3db2bd 
94e057628/t/6011a63f65321405af5468
1f/16117 69420810/Uncharted+Waters.pdf
35 
Zero, Then Negative   •   Tech-Based Approaches
TECH ON DECK
Tech-Based Approaches
The deployment of innovative technologies that pull CO2 from the atmosphere, 
paired with utilization or storage, will play a critical role in reaching mid-century 
emissions targets.65 While the portfolio of tech-based carbon removal can include 
an array of promising technologies, this section focuses on policies relevant to direct 
air capture (DAC)66 and applications for the captured carbon. 
DAC technologies have significant potential for scale-up; projections indicate that 
they could remove as much as 5 gigatons of CO2 by 205067 with a relatively small 
land use footprint,68 create hundreds of thousands of jobs,69 and contribute 
significantly to economic growth.70 At present, one of the major barriers to scaling 
these technologies is cost; since CO2 is relatively dilute in the air, the separation 
process is energy-intensive and expensive. However, a recent surge of federal 
funding for RD&D has begun to change things, driving significant private sector 
interest and investment in these technologies. Additional federal support to 
develop and deploy these solutions can capitalize on this momentum to drive down 
technology costs and launch these emerging technologies beyond the 
demonstration phase. 
Equitable, durable, and timely scale-up of carbon removal technologies will require 
a holistic strategy for deployment that includes social, environmental, and labor 
considerations. The economic and employment opportunities associated with these 
technologies can support historically disadvantaged communities and transitioning 
industries, but only with the appropriate policies in place. To this end, 
recommendations in this section include broadening the scope of federal RD&D, 
encouraging infrastructure development, enhancing and modifying relevant 
regulations, and emphasizing public engagement and community-led initiatives. 
Through the passage of forward-thinking and comprehensive legislation promoting 
carbon removal technologies and their deployment, Congress has the unique 
capacity to propel these solutions in a direction that both enables the realization of 
climate goals and leads to the creation of a vibrant market that will benefit society, 
the environment, and the economy far into the future.
65.  National Academies of Science, 
Engineering, and Medicine. (2019) 
Negative Emissions Technologies and 
Reliable Sequestration: A Research 
Agenda. Washington, DC: The 
National Academies Press. https://
www.nap.edu/catalog/25259/
negative-emissions-technologies-
and-reliable-sequestration-a-
research-agenda
66.  Carbon180. (2020). Direct Air Capture. 
https://static1.squarespace.com/
static/5b9362d89d5abb8c51d474f8/ 
t/602b5c61fcd7254f1bd13f9f/ 
1613454437930/Carbon180+Ed+ 
Packet+DAC.pdf
67.  Larsen, J., Herndon, W., Grant, M., & 
Marsters, J. (2019). Capturing 
Leadership: Policies for the US To 
Advance Direct Air Capture 
Technology. Rhodium Group. https://
rhg.com/research/capturing-
leadership-policies-for-the-us-to-
advance-direct-air-capture-
technology/
68.  Energy Futures Initiative. (2019). 
Clearing the Air. https://
energyfuturesinitiative.org/
efi-reports#:~:text=%E2%80%9C 
Clearing%20the%20Air%3A%20A%20 
Federal,carbon%20dioxide%20
removal%20(CDR).
69.  Larsen, J., Herndon, W., & Hiltbrand, 
G. (2020). Capturing New Jobs. 
Rhodium Group. https://rhg.com/
wp-content/uploads/2020/06/
Capturing-New-Jobs-Employment-
Opportunities-from-DAC-Scale- 
Up.pdf
70.  Larsen, J., Herndon, W., & Hiltbrand, 
G. (2020). Capturing Business. 
Rhodium Group. https://rhg.com/
wp-content/uploads/2020/06/
Capturing-New-Business-Market-
Opportunities-from-DAC-Scale-Up.
pdf
36 
Zero, Then Negative   •   Tech-Based Approaches
Utilize federal procurement to drive the  
deployment of DAC, bioenergy with carbon  
capture and storage (BECCS), and carbontech
In 2019, the federal government was responsible for emitting a total of 
83 million tons CO2-equivalent from both standard and non-standard 
operations.71 During the same year, the US government spent more than 
$568 billion on products and services.72 Using this purchasing power to 
procure carbon removal services and related products, Congress can set 
federal agencies on the path to reach net-negative by 2050 and build 
strong early markets for nascent technologies.
The benefits of federal procurement of carbon removal and related 
products extend beyond reducing the carbon footprint of the US 
government. Market penetration of renewables such as solar and wind is 
in part attributed to the purchasing power of the federal government.73 
A Congressional mandate would provide marketplace certainty for 
carbon removal and promote the emergence of diverse technologies 
BY COURTNI HOLNESS, 
LUCIA SIMONELLI, PHD, 
TIM STEEVES, PHD, & 
MERON TESFAYE, PHD
1.
Greenhouse gas  
emissions  
of the US federal  
government  
(FY2019)
Heat and Electricity  33.4%
Fuel and Mobile Emission  63.8%
Fugitive Emission  2.5 %
Industrial Processes  0.3%
SOURCE:  
US Department of Energy. (2019). Comprehensive Annual Energy Data and Sustainability Perfor-
mance. Retrieved from https://ctsedwweb.ee.doe.gov/Annual/Report/ComprehensiveGreenhouse-
GasGHGInventoriesByAgencyAndFiscalYear.aspx
71.  US Department of Energy. (2019). 
Comprehensive Annual Energy Data 
and Sustainability Performance. 
Retrieved from https://ctsedwweb.
ee.doe.gov/Annual/Report/
ComprehensiveGreenhouseGasGHGIn-
ventoriesByAgencyAndFiscalYear.aspx
72.  US Government Accountability Office. 
(2020, May 26). A Snapshot of 
Government-wide Contracting for FY 
2019 (infographic). https://blog.gao.
gov/2020/05/26/a-snapshot-of-gov-
ernment-wide-contract-
ing-for-fy-2019-infographic/
73.  Kutak Rock LLP and Scully Capital Ser-
vices. (2018). Examination of Federal 
Financial Assistance in the Renewable 
Energy Market. US Department of 
Energy, Office of Nuclear Energy. 
https://www.energy.gov/ne/
downloads/report-examination-fed-
eral-financial-assistance-renew-
able-energy-market
37 
Zero, Then Negative   •   Tech-Based Approaches
and businesses as carbon removal continues to develop and mature.74 
Use of the federal government’s purchasing power for sustainable 
products has broad public support and can serve to drive momentum in 
fighting climate change.75 A long-term federal procurement strategy 
can also create a framework for carbon removal deployment that 
includes parameters such as preservation of environmental integrity, 
protection of frontline communities, public engagement, and labor 
justice. 
The federal government should take the following actions to launch 
federal procurement of carbon removal and carbontech to support 
building early and strong markets for low-carbon pathways.
Recommendation: Adopt a federal  
net-negative goal 
As part of the larger goal of global decarbonization, the US federal 
government should commit to achieving net-negative emissions by 
2030, establishing and tracking separate targets for emissions 
reductions and carbon removal efforts. A plan to do so should be 
mandated by Congress and subsequently developed and finalized by 
federal agencies. Meeting negative emissions targets will necessitate 
accelerating renewable energy purchasing, continuing energy efficiency 
improvements, and procuring carbon removal solutions to tackle hard-
to-abate and historical emissions by federal agencies. Congress can 
achieve the latter by procuring carbon removal directly, purchasing 
carbon-negative fuels, and building materials as described below. 
Recommendation: Procure high-quality carbon 
removal offsets 
In line with net-zero emissions efforts, Congress can require the US 
government to purchase an amount of carbon removal equivalent to a 
target percentage of annual emissions. Only carbon removal that is 
verifiable, additional, and permanent must be considered for purchase. 
A procurement program similar to the Federal Energy Management 
Program (FEMP) can be established within the newly authorized carbon 
removal program at DOE, to help agencies with offset procurement 
strategies for DAC and BECCS. Initial purchases could be made through 
both competitive and noncompetitive procurement processes. In the 
early years, to spur market diversity and penetration, non-competitive 
procurement targets can be set for DAC and high-cost BECCS; a model 
similar to the former Energy Research and Development Administration 
(ERDA) Block Buy program for solar could be beneficial in order to 
pre-negotiate contracts based on removal targets before initiating the 
formal procurement process.76 Federal procurement of DAC offsets 
74.  Larsen, J., Herndon, W., Grant, M., & 
Marsters, J. (2019). Capturing 
Leadership: Policies for the US To 
Advance Direct Air Capture 
Technology. Rhodium Group. https://
rhg.com/research/capturing-leader-
ship-policies-for-the-us-to-advance-
direct-air-capture-technology/
75.  Data for Progress. (2020). Voters 
Support Using the Government’s 
Procurement Power to Take on Climate 
Change. Retrieved from https://www.
filesforprogress.org/datasets/2021/1/
dfp_green_procurement.pdf
76.   Nemet, G. F. (2019). How Solar 
Became Cheap: A model for 
low-carbon innovation. Routledge.
GLOSSARY
Bioenergy with carbon 
capture and storage (BECCS) 
A form of energy production 
that utilizes plant biomass to 
create electricity, hydrogen, 
heat, and/or liquid fuel. 
This process simultaneously 
captures and sequesters some 
portion of the carbon from the 
biomass for storage.
1 . A
1 . B
38 
Zero, Then Negative   •   Tech-Based Approaches
should aim to ramp up to at least 9 million tons of CO2 by 2030. 
Additional procurement can be awarded to competitive carbon removal 
offsets for carbon-negative energy via BECCS. 
Recommendation: Procure low-carbon and  
carbon-negative fuels 
The largest portion of emissions from the federal government originate 
from fuels and mobile emissions largely from non-standard operations 
(such as emergency response, relief operations, and combat and law 
enforcement activities). These emissions could be tackled through 
various carbon removal and low-carbon fuel procurement options, and 
DAC-to-fuels specifically could provide a low-carbon alternative to 
conventional fuel. Congress could anticipate the need for procurement of 
these synthetic fuels by establishing a minimum carbon intensity 
requirement for all fuels purchased by federal agencies. Existing federal 
procurement regulation already stipulates that procurement of 
alternative fuels has to be less than or equal to emissions from an 
equivalent conventional fuel.77 In addition, low-carbon fuel standards in 
California and Oregon are driving down the cost of low-carbon intensity 
fuels across the nation.78 The federal government can leverage existing 
structures and marketplaces to further drive down emissions associated 
with the transportation sector. Congress can also instruct specific federal 
agencies responsible for high emissions such as DOD, DOE, and USDA to 
set production volume and price targets and make matching funds 
available for purchase of carbon-negative fuels via DAC and BECCS.79  
READ MORE
Read more about DAC-to-fuels on page 48.
Recommendation: Procure low-carbon and  
carbon-negative building materials for public 
projects through a competitive bidding process 
Governments are often the largest buyers of building materials. In the 
US, DOD is the primary agency purchasing construction materials and 
transportation equipment, and the General Services Administration 
(GSA) issues procurements for about 44 construction projects a year.80 
Building materials such as cement, iron, and steel have high GHG 
intensities and account for a large share of global GHG emissions, but 
they are not typically a part of procurement programs. At the same 
time, new companies are innovating around low-carbon and carbon-
1 . C
1 . D
77.  Procurement and acquisition of 
alternative fuels. 42 U.S.C. § 17142 
(2013). 
78.  Fuels Institute. (2020). Impact of 
Transportation-Related Environmental 
Initiatives. https://www.fuelsinstitute.
org/CMSPages/GetFile.aspx-
?guid=1d06a94b-0ce2-4d3d-9f75-
bdff8ab77f84
79.  Environmental and Energy Study 
Institute. (2014, September 26). 
Government Agencies Award Annual 
Contracts for 100 Million Gallons of 
Drop-In Biofuels. https://www.eesi.
org/articles/view/government-agen-
cies-award-annual-contracts-for-100-
million-gallons-of-drop-
80.  Krupnick, A. (2020, November). Green 
Public Procurement for Natural Gas, 
Cement, and Steel. Resources for the 
Future. https://media.rff.org/
documents/RFF_WP_20-17_Green_
Public_Procurement_for_Natural_
Gas_Cement_and_Steel.pdf  
GLOSSARY
DAC-to-fuels 
Synthetic fuels produced by 
using the CO2 obtained from 
direct air capture (DAC).
39 
Zero, Then Negative   •   Tech-Based Approaches
negative building materials made from CO2 from DAC, BECCS or 
traditional carbon capture and storage (CCS). 
Congress should direct agencies to procure low-carbon and carbon-
negative building materials for public projects through a competitive 
bidding process. Top performers, or those with low global warming 
potential (GWP), would earn discounts applied to their price, allowing 
them to be more competitive and provide better value. These procuring 
agencies should also create an industry-wide standard for measuring 
efficiency, emissions intensity, and embodied carbon and require reliable 
CO2 footprint labeling. Industry-wide standards increase communication 
about the life cycle environmental impact of products in a transparent 
and comparable manner. Finally, procuring agencies should coordinate 
and establish target dates for achieving net-zero carbon emissions in 
building materials production. Addressing embodied carbon provides an 
opportunity to reduce the carbon footprint of building materials 
production and accelerate the development of a market for building 
materials with low embodied carbon in the US.
SIMILAR POLICY
The Low Embodied Carbon Concrete Leadership Act 
Passed in NY and NJ, this legislation establishes a climate impact procurement 
standard for state construction projects and aims to drive carbon reduction 
through market-based incentives. Read more in Paving the Way for  
Low-Carbon Concrete.
RELATED RESOURCES
–  Paving the Way for Low-Carbon Concrete: Recommendations for a Federal 
Procurement Strategy, Carbon180
–  Green Public Procurement for Natural Gas, Cement, and Steel,  
Resources for the Future 
Develop comprehensive demonstration  
and deployment strategies within DOE to  
complement R&D efforts 
While there is growing support for carbon removal innovation, it is 
essential that early stage R&D be met with forward-thinking policies to 
ensure durable and equitable deployment at the necessary scale.81 
Building on the momentum of the Energy Act of 2020 and other recent 
boosts to federal R&D for technological carbon removal, especially DAC, 
Congress should anticipate the need for bold and comprehensive 
demonstration and deployment strategies as technologies mature. 
BY GIANA AMADOR,  
ERIN BURNS, & 
LUCIA SIMONELLI, PHD
2.
GLOSSARY
Bioenergy with carbon 
capture and storage (BECCS) 
A form of energy production 
that utilizes plant biomass to 
create electricity, hydrogen, 
heat, and/or liquid fuel. 
This process simultaneously 
captures and sequesters some 
portion of the carbon from the 
biomass for storage.
Global warming potential 
(GWP) 
A ratio of how much energy 
the atmospheric emission of 1 
ton of a gas will absorb over a 
given period of time (typically 
100 years), relative to the 
emissions of 1 ton of carbon 
dioxide.
ON THE MARKET TODAY
Companies such as 
CarbonCure and Solidia use 
CO2 during the curing process, 
where it improves the strength 
of the material and lowers 
carbon intensity.
81.  Data For Progress. (2020). A 
Progressive Climate Innovation 
Agenda. https://www.filesforprogress.
org/memos/climate-innovation-agen-
da-report.pdf
40 
Zero, Then Negative   •   Tech-Based Approaches
Planning ahead for the demonstration and deployment phase of 
technologies arising from federal R&D will ensure that the proper 
structures are in place for the creation of a healthy market. In the 
context of technological carbon removal, DOE should incorporate 
metrics into demonstration projects that include environmental, social, 
and labor justice, and that lead to a more diverse deployment 
landscape that favors small businesses and entrepreneurs.
Technological carbon removal funding has primarily gone through DOE, 
and specifically to the Office of Fossil Energy, but building a resilient 
future for these technologies will require robust coordination both within 
the government — between offices, programs, and agencies — as well as 
internationally. Congress has an opportunity to lead in charting this path 
forward.
Recommendation: Prioritize community-driven 
initiatives and inclusion of public engagement 
and EJ considerations in demonstration project 
selection processes
Congress should direct DOE to prioritize community-driven initiatives 
when evaluating proposals for demonstration project awards. In 
addition, the directive should include establishing coordination between 
the Carbon Removal Program, staff offices such as the Office of Legacy 
Management,82 EPA, and NSF to determine the appropriate metrics to 
ensure that EJ83 is a key consideration in the selection process. These 
metrics should include preservation of environmental integrity as well as 
protection of frontline communities. Robust public engagement 
strategies should also be considered during selection processes, 
including language justice initiatives when applicable. This work can be 
done in partnership with the new deputy director for energy justice and 
deputy assistant secretary for public engagement. 
READ MORE
Read more about siting DAC facilities on page 42.
Recommendation: Increase funding for the  
Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) and 
Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) 
programs with directives to prioritize carbon 
removal proposals 
To diversify the portfolio of small businesses and startups engaging in 
2 . A
2 . B
82.  Office of Legacy Management. 
Community Engagement Initiatives. 
US Department of Energy. https://
www.energy.gov/lm/community-en-
gagement-initiatives
83.  Office of Legacy Management. What 
Is Environmental Justice? US 
Department of Energy. https://www.
energy.gov/lm/services/environmen-
tal-justice/what-environmental-jus-
tice#:~:text=Environmental%20
justice%20is%20the%20
fair,laws%2C%20regulations%2C%20
and%20policies
41 
Zero, Then Negative   •   Tech-Based Approaches
carbon removal, Congress should increase DOE R&D funding specifically 
for the SBIR and STTR84 carbon removal awards. Across the SBIR and 
STTR programs, Congress should explore ways for DOE to lower the 
barriers for small businesses and early entrepreneurs in accessing 
support.
Recommendation: Establish a new Loan  
Programs Office subprogram for carbon  
removal solutions
Congress should establish a new Loan Guarantee Program under DOE’s 
Loan Program Office to support demonstration and deployment for 
projects in early stages of development. This program should expand 
beyond DAC and BECCS to also support enhanced mineralization, ocean 
capture, and carbon utilization. Such a program would be housed in the 
Title 17 Innovative Energy Loan Guarantee Program and financed in a 
structure similar to the Advanced Fossil Energy and Renewable Energy & 
Efficient Energy Loan Guarantees. Across the loan program office, 
Congress should explore ways for DOE to lower the barriers for small 
businesses and early entrepreneurs in accessing loan program funding.
Recommendation: Emphasize integration of  
carbon removal technology into a broad range  
of sectors
Congress should direct DOE to emphasize novel applications of carbon 
removal technologies such as integration into industrial processes. For 
example, it should promote the accelerated development of DAC 
applications for cement through research, development, demonstration, 
and deployment (RDD&D) funding.85 This directive should include 
applications of small-scale technologies that remove less than 1,000 
metric tons of CO2 per year.
Recommendation: Include technological carbon 
removal in formal international coordination 
and collaboration
Congress should direct DOE to explore the inclusion of technological 
carbon removal into existing international collaborative frameworks such 
as the Fossil Energy Bilateral Agreements,86 the Carbon Sequestration 
Leadership Forum,87 and Mission Innovation.88
2 . C
2 . D
2 . E
84.  Office of Science. Small Business Inno-
vation Research and Small Business 
Technology Transfer programs office.  
US Department of Energy. https://
www.energy.gov/science/sbir/
small-business-innovation-re-
search-and-small-business-technolo-
gy-transfer
85.  Talati, S., Merchant, N., & Neidl, C.  
(2020). Paving the Way for 
Low-Carbon Concrete: Recommenda-
tions for a Federal Procurement 
Strategy. Carbon180. https://
carbon180.org/s/Paving-the-Way-for-
Low-Carbon-Concrete
86.  US Department of Energy. Fossil 
Energy Bilateral Agreements. https://
fossil.energy.gov/international/
International_Partners/Internation-
al_Partners.html
87.  Carbon Sequestration Leadership 
Forum. https://www.cslforum.org/cslf/
88.  US Department of Energy. Mission 
Innovation. https://www.energy.gov/
mission-innovation/mission-innova-
tion-doe
42 
Zero, Then Negative   •   Tech-Based Approaches
REINVESTING FOSSIL FUEL SUBSIDIES
A recent Biden executive order includes a call to end federal fossil fuels 
subsidies. Should Congress codify this order, almost $20 billion annually could 
be reinvested into environmental justice and decarbonization initiatives, 
including carbon removal projects.
RELATED RESOURCES
–  Paving the Way for Low-Carbon Concrete: Recommendations for a Federal 
Procurement Strategy, Carbon180
–  A Progressive Climate Innovation Agenda, Data for Progress
–  Community Engagement Initiatives, DOE Office of Legacy Management 
–  Environmental Justice Initiatives, DOE Office of Legacy Management
–  SBIR/STTR Programs Office, DOE Office of Science
Establish a federal DAC siting research initiative 
to support equitable and safe deployment 
Early DAC deployments will need to minimize stress on water, land, and 
energy resources while providing long-term and high-paying jobs, 
among other community benefits. In some instances, DAC facilities may 
be sizable industrial facilities (up to 2 km2 per 1 million tons CO2 
removed), and at the global scale could remove gigatons of CO2 from 
ambient air.89 Research on how to site DAC facilities in a just, equitable, 
and economical manner will be necessary for near-term pilot and 
commercial facilities to ensure that the infrastructure has climate 
benefits and ensure safety. Siting studies can also improve the quality, 
timeliness, and public acceptance of projects.
The Carbon Dioxide Removal Primer, and numerous other recent efforts, 
includes an ongoing effort to map locations optimal for siting carbon 
removal solutions.90, 91, 92 However, there is still not a mapping resource 
that integrates social and EJ considerations with energy sources and 
sequestration potential.
The US federal government has the capability to perform domestic DAC 
siting research with interagency resources, authority over federal lands, 
and expertise in broader infrastructure and resource considerations, as 
well as social, environmental, and economic justice. Federal reporting 
can provide a baseline of information for DAC developers to commence 
projects within the US. The federal government manages roughly 28% of 
land in the US for the purposes of preservation, recreation, and 
development of natural resources — some of which could be suitable for 
DAC construction.93 Federal lands that have been degraded, present few 
BY COURTNI HOLNESS
3.
89.  Lebling, K., McQueen, N., Pisciotta, M. 
& Wilcox, J. (2021). Direct Air Capture: 
Resource Considerations and Costs for 
Carbon Removal. World Resources 
Institute. https://www.wri.org/
blog/2021/01/direct-air-capture-defi-
nition-cost-considerations
90.  Pilorgé, H., Kolosz, B., Wu, G., C., 
&Freeman, J. (2021). “Global Mapping 
of CDR Opportunities.” CDR Primer. 
https://cdrprimer.org/read/chapter-3 
91.  McQueen, N., Psarras, P., Pilorgé, H., et 
al. (2020). Cost Analysis of Direct Air 
Capture and Sequestration Coupled to 
Low-Carbon Thermal Energy in the 
United States. Environmental Science 
& Technology, 54(12), 7542-7551. 
https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.
est.0c00476
92.  Williams, J. H., Jones, R. A., Haley, B., 
Kwok, G., Hargreaves, J., Farbes, J., & 
Torn, M. S. (2021). Carbon-Neutral 
Pathways for the United States. AGU 
Advances, 2(1), e2020AV000284. 
https://doi.org/10.1029/2020AV000 
284
93.  Congressional Research Service. 
(2020). Federal Land Ownership: 
Overview and Data. https://fas.org/
sgp/crs/misc/R42346.pdf 
43 
Zero, Then Negative   •   Tech-Based Approaches
ecological disruptions, and are far removed from communities may be 
suitable for DAC siting research. 
Recommendation: Direct DOE, the US Army 
Corps of Engineers, Council on Environmental 
Quality, EPA, DOI, National Institute of Stan-
dards and Technology, and NSF to create a DAC 
siting research and reporting task force 
Task this new entity with 1) conducting studies to assess optimal 
locations for DAC, 2) preparing a formal report on assessment findings, 
and 3) creating a database with information and guidelines for 
developers and the government to reference. This report should be 
made available no later than two years after the creation of the task 
force. This task force may be developed in a manner parallel to the 
previous Interagency Task Force on Carbon Capture and Storage, but it 
would focus on the specific resource and social considerations 
associated with DAC.
Recommendation: Conduct DAC siting  
assessments
DAC siting studies should identify optimal sites for deployment, with 
consideration of co-location with low-carbon energy sources and 
geologic storage, ecological impacts, natural resource protection, 
community consultation, and potential co-benefits. The studies should 
be conducted on local or regional scales to contextualize existing global 
studies and create more accurate and granular data for local land in the 
US. Siting studies should also include frequent and robust public 
engagement to identify 1) communities open to information and 
discussion of DAC facilities, 2) risk perception and mitigation, and 3) the 
equitable distribution of potential benefits from DAC deployment.
DAC developers will likely require permits to achieve regulatory 
compliance with environmental laws such as the Safe Drinking Water Act 
(SDWA), National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), Clean Water Act 
(CWA), and the Clean Air Act (CAA).94 The federal government may offer 
categorical exclusions for projects by pre-screening DAC sites under 
environmental laws and predefining those projects as benign when 
appropriate. Screening can establish a streamlined regulatory process 
by predetermining if DAC construction would have any adverse 
environmental or social impacts, with respect to criteria such as 
available energy, storage capacity, water consumption, and ecological 
harms. The process would not allow circumvention of procedures, but 
rather increase efficiency by permitting sites with relatively limited risk. 
3 . A
3 . B
94.  Hester, T. (2018). Legal Pathways to 
Negative Emissions Technologies and 
Direct Air Capture of Greenhouse 
Gases. Environmental Law Reporter, 
48(5),10413-10432.
44 
Zero, Then Negative   •   Tech-Based Approaches
Pre-screening during the siting stage of projects is likely to save time 
and help determine if a project will need to make a full environmental 
impact statement. 
Recommendation: Publish DAC siting report and 
database
The task force should present and publish the findings from the siting 
studies in a formal report and create a database to organize the studies’ 
information and status of all projects. The database shall also include a 
public input interface to increase accessibility and transparency of the 
full project cycle and allow for public commenting periods.
The database shall serve as a tool for managing, tracking, and 
accelerating appropriate DAC projects in the US with the potential to 
envelop other carbon removal solutions. The database should also 
include 1) site maps with geologic and environmental characteristics, 2) 
public participation comments and considerations, 3) answers to related 
EJ questions on whether development may exacerbate or redress any 
existing disproportionate impacts to minority and low-income 
communities, and 4) public health and environmental threats or 
concerns. 
RELATED RESOURCE
– Global Mapping of CDR Opportunities, CDR Primer
Create a DAC market, policy, and people  
innovation prize
Prize competitions for novel solutions and products have long been used 
to foster innovation by both private philanthropies and the public sector 
alike. By combining financial incentives with open and transparent 
selection and eligibility criteria, well-structured and widely promoted 
prize competitions can both catalyze breakthroughs and foster new 
forms of collaboration in high-impact ways that markets alone often 
cannot. 
The transformative potential of prizes can play a critical role in 
accelerating carbon removal innovation. In the Energy Act of 2020, 
Congress authorized two DAC-specific innovation prizes that would 
support multiple demonstration and commercial scale deployments. The 
recent announcement of the $100 million carbon removal XPRIZE, 
funded by Elon Musk, further confirms that this idea is gaining traction. 
BY CHRIS NEIDL & 
LUCIA SIMONELLI, PHD
4.
3 . A
45 
Zero, Then Negative   •   Tech-Based Approaches
The substantial technical and cost barriers to scaling DAC are 
particularly well suited to this type of intervention. 
However, the constraints surrounding DAC deployment transcend 
technological challenges. Reaching gigaton capacity will require 
creative strategies to promote both durable and equitable markets. This 
necessitates new approaches to implementing public policy and 
regulation by leveraging and cultivating public, private, and human 
resources, and building meaningful public engagement, participation, 
and ownership. State, municipal, and tribal governments, other public 
sector agencies, civil society organizations, academic institutions, and 
the private sector all have a role to play in discovering, implementing, 
and replicating the conditions necessary to ensure a future in which DAC 
is widespread, sustainable, equitable, and locally anchored. 
We propose a federal DAC market, policy, and people innovation prize 
competition that aims to rapidly foster policy and commercial innovation 
at the state and municipal scale, on the ground, where DAC 
infrastructure will ultimately be realized.
Recommendation: Create and fund a DAC  
market, policy and people innovation prize
Congress should authorize a DAC market, policy, and people innovation 
prize competition within the DOE Carbon Removal Program. This prize 
builds on the need for technological development (covered by the 
existing prizes) by including provisions to encourage innovation around 
building markets and creating policies: 
•   focusing on locally based (state, tribal, and municipal), novel models 
for DAC project development, deployment strategies, financing 
options, and incentivization policies,
•   soliciting ideas for innovative ideas to create local or regional markets 
for DAC technologies,
•   prioritizing public engagement and community-based initiatives,
•   building multi-stakeholder visioning and planning into processes, 
ensuring bottom-up innovation and equity,
•   emphasizing regional equity when creating awards, and
•   ensuring broad eligibility, including and prioritizing public, private, and 
institutional coalitions. 
RELATED RESOURCE
–  “And the winner is…” Capturing the promise of philanthropic prizes,  
McKinsey & Company report
4 . A
46 
Zero, Then Negative   •   Tech-Based Approaches
Enhance and expand the 45Q tax credit for DAC
In 2018, the 45Q tax credit was updated to include DAC for the first 
time, which has arguably been the single most significant federal 
incentive for engineered carbon removal. In fact, as a result of this and 
other state level incentives, we’ve seen the first-ever megaton scale 
plant announced.95 While this is an enormous victory, the current credit 
level was developed for point source carbon capture, a far more mature 
technology, and will not be sufficient to deploy DAC at the levels and in 
the timeframe needed to meet climate goals. Updates to 45Q that take 
into account the unique needs of DAC are the next critical step. 
At the time of the 2018 45Q tax credit updates, DAC was even more 
nascent and a climate solution new to most policymakers. Getting it 
included in 45Q was a major achievement. Since then, interest in and 
support for the technology has skyrocketed, and there have been more 
detailed analyses of what policies are needed to scale DAC, including 
further updates to 45Q. In response to the 2018 amendments to the 
45Q credit, significant economic research has been done on the 
capacity of the credit to drive economically viable DAC projects. Most 
notably, the Rhodium Group published an analysis that estimated the 
cost gap (for a facility to break even) with the current 45Q credit values 
on a per-ton basis.96 
Recommendation: Update and expand the 45Q 
tax credit to support DAC deployment
•   The value of the credit should be raised from the current level of $50 
per ton in 2026 to $180 per ton upon enactment for saline storage, 
and the value for carbontech should be raised from $35 per ton to 
$130 per ton. The current values were set for point source carbon 
capture and enhanced oil recovery — both significantly more 
commercially mature than DAC and carbontech. 
•   Minimum annual capture thresholds for qualified facilities should be 
eliminated. Current DAC pilot projects operate at the scale of several 
thousand tons per year, yielding a significant finance and 
infrastructure gap to achieving the current 100,000-ton threshold. 
Moreover, the elimination capture thresholds would enable all DAC 
technologies to compete equally, while enabling greater and more 
rapid learnings and cost reductions with less project finance risk. 
•   The commence construction deadline should be extended to at least 
2030 to enable a pipeline of projects that will benefit from near-term 
deployment experience. 
BY ERIN BURNS & 
RORY JACOBSON
5.
95.  Geman, B. (2020, August 19). 
Occidental Petroleum teams with 
private equity firm to deploy carbon 
capture tech in US. Axios. https://
www.axios.com/occidental-petro-
leum-carbon-capture-rusheen-
ca90b907-aa84-4d03-848e-
46b964da285a.html 
96.   Larsen, J., Herdon, W., Grant, M., & 
Marsters, P. (2019). Capturing 
Leadership Policies for the US to 
Advance Direct Air Capture 
Technology. Rhodium Group. https://
rhg.com/research/capturing-leader-
ship-policies-for-the-us-to-advance-
direct-air-capture-technology/
5 . A
47 
Zero, Then Negative   •   Tech-Based Approaches
Federal policy support and  
solar deployment
Cumulative solar capacity, GW (LHS);  
Cumulative tax support,  
$2017 billions (RHS)
Deployment
Tax Support 
SOURCE:  
Larsen, J., Herdon, W., Grant, M., & Marsters, P. (2019). Capturing 
Leadership Policies for the US to Advance Direct Air Capture 
Technology. Rhodium Group. https://rhg.com/research/ 
capturing-leadership-policies-for-the-us-to-advance-direct- 
air-capture-technology/
$30
$25
$20
$15
$10
$5
$0
30
25
20
15
10
5
0
2006
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
2017
•   Direct pay should be enacted. Providing direct pay would allow project 
developers to more easily and effectively cash the 45Q credit. 
•   A checks and balances system between EPA and the Internal Revenue 
Service should be implemented, such that 45Q credits are only 
awarded to projects that demonstrate validated and confirmed 
compliance with EPA Class VI underground injection control (UIC) 
protocols. 
Many of these recommendations, including eliminating thresholds, direct 
pay, and extending the commence construction deadline could also spur 
more point source carbon capture projects and receive wide support 
from CCS advocates. Importantly, increasing the value for 45Q for point 
source industrial projects, particularly those where deployment costs are 
far higher than $50 per ton, could help reduce emissions in hard-to-
decarbonize sectors such as steel.  
RELATED RESOURCES
–  Capturing Leadership: Policies for the US to Advance Direct Air Capture 
Technology, Rhodium Group
Create an investment tax credit for DAC
Investment tax credits (ITC) have been one of the most powerful forces 
in scaling renewable energy in the US; the solar ITC in particular played 
a fundamental role in launching and sustaining a strong deployment 
trajectory, creating a solid foundation for growing private sector interest 
and investment.97 
BY ERIN BURNS,  
RORY JACOBSON, & 
LUCIA SIMONELLI, PHD
6.
97.   National Academy of Engineering and 
National Research Council. (2010). The 
Power of Renewables: Opportunities 
and Challenges for China and the 
United States. Washington, DC: The 
National Academies Press. https://doi.
org/10.17226/12987
48 
Zero, Then Negative   •   Tech-Based Approaches
Investment tax credits can be invaluable to emerging technologies such 
as DAC that have not yet reached economies of scale or reaped the 
benefits of learning by doing. The few deployment incentives for DAC 
within the US are currently not of sufficient value to attract the 
investment necessary to finance multiple commercial facilities. To this 
end, we propose an ITC for DAC that 1) would cover a significant portion 
of the upfront capital costs, 2) could be stacked with the performance-
based tax credit, 45Q, in the case of permanent, geologic storage,  
3) does not require a minimum capture capacity for eligibility, and  
4) remains applicable for a long enough period to create market 
certainty and ensure that we reach an adequate level of cost reduction.
Recommendation: Create an ITC for DAC
This ITC for DAC should include the following specifications: 
•   Secures deductions of at least 40% of capital costs in order to 
significantly offset the investment necessary to finance DAC plants. 
This percentage is higher than the solar ITC, reflecting the difference 
in maturity of the markets for carbon and energy.
•   Ensures stackability with other policies such as 45Q when paired with 
permanent, geologic storage. This pathway in particular ensures 
permanent carbon removal and cannot benefit from utilization 
markets.
•   Has no minimum capture threshold so as to align with the current 
state of the technology, increase diversity of technologies and market 
players, and ensure that DAC can benefit from niche market 
applications.
•   Does not expire or ramp down until DAC deployment capacity in the 
US reaches at least the equivalent of 1% of 2021 absolute US emissions.
RELATED RESOURCE
–  The Power of Renewables, National Academy of Engineering and National 
Research Council
Invest in DAC-to-fuel pathways
Transportation is responsible for more than a quarter of US emissions.98 
It is predicted that energy demand for transport will increase in the 
coming decades, including for the hardest-to-decarbonize sectors such 
as aviation, shipping, and long-haul trucking.99 While innovation 
BY ERIN BURNS & 
LUCIA SIMONELLI, PHD
7.
6 . A
98.    US Environmental Protection Agency. 
(2019). Sources of Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions. https://www.epa.gov/
ghgemissions/sources-green-
house-gas-emissions
99.  The Royal Society. (2019). Sustainable 
synthetic carbon based fuels for 
transport: Policy briefing. https://
royalsociety.org/-/media/policy/
projects/synthetic-fuels/synthetic-fu-
els-briefing.pdf
49 
Zero, Then Negative   •   Tech-Based Approaches
continues in the direction of increased efficiency, improvements to 
energy storage, and development of electric and hybrid vehicles, 
low-carbon fuels will be essential to meet mid-century climate goals.
Fuels synthesized from CO2 obtained from DAC can be lower carbon 
intensity than conventional diesel and some biofuels;100 are drop-in 
compatible with refineries, infrastructure, and engines;101 are cleaner 
burning — meaning no sulfur and low particulate matter; have virtually 
unlimited feedstock; and require less water and land use than most 
biofuels. In addition, they provide an opportunity to produce fuels 
on-site, which is especially beneficial in the context of national security.
Improvements to the fuel synthesis process are being actively 
developed,102 but synthetic fuels, especially jet fuels, remain significantly 
more expensive than their fossil fuel-based counterparts. While there is 
some movement in the private and public sectors, robust federal policy 
incentives, regulation, and funding for RD&D103 are imperative.
Recommendation:  
Ensure robust funding for RD&D in existing 
utilization programs
Building on the momentum of the SEA FUEL Act, the USE IT Act, and the 
newly reauthorized Carbon Utilization Program in the Energy Act of 
2020, continued funding for RD&D of synthesizing fuels, especially 
aviation fuels,104 from captured CO2 is necessary to improve processes 
and catalysts used for the reactions in order to increase efficiency and 
ultimately drive down cost.
100.  Liu, C. M., Sandhu, N., McCoy, S. T., & 
Bergerson, J. (2020). A life cycle 
assessment of greenhouse gas 
emissions from direct air capture and 
Fischer–Tropsch fuel production. 
Sustainable Energy & Fuels, 6. 
https://pubs.rsc.org/en/Content/
ArticleLanding/2020/SE/
C9SE00479C#!divAbstract
101.  Carbon Engineering. Air to Fuels. 
https://carbonengineering.com/
air-to-fuels/
102.  Yao, B., Xiao, T., et al. (2020). 
Transforming carbon dioxide into jet 
fuel using an organic combus-
tion-synthesized Fe-Mn-K catalyst. 
Nature Communications, 11, Article 
6395. https://www.nature.com/
articles/s41467-020-20214-z
103.  National Academies of Science, 
Engineering, and Medicine. Gaseous 
Carbon Waste Streams Utilization. 
Chapter 11. (2019). https://www.nap.
edu/catalog/25232/gaseous-car-
bon-waste-streams-utilization-sta-
tus-and-research-needs
Forecast global 
energy demand  
for transport fuels
Trucks
Marine
Aviation 
SOURCE:  
The Royal Society. (2019). 
Sustainable synthetic carbon based 
fuels for transport: Policy briefing. 
https://royalsociety.org/-/media/
policy/projects/synthetic-fuels/
synthetic-fuels-briefing.pdf
Demand (million tonnes of fuel per year)
2,000
1,800
1,600
1,400
1,200
1,000
800
600
400
200
0
2010
2015
2025
2035
2020
2030
2040
CURRENT INITIATIVES
Examples of initiatives 
underway to use recycled  
CO2 in the production of 
aviation fuels: 
–  Lanzatech and Virgin 
Atlantic 
– Opus 12 and the US Air Force 
–  Carbon Engineering and 
Aerion Supersonic
7 . A
50 
Zero, Then Negative   •   Tech-Based Approaches
Recommendation:  
Mandate federal  
procurement  
of DAC-to-fuels
While efforts to fully electrify the federal 
fleet should be prioritized, it will take 
many years to realize this goal. In the 
interim, Congress should direct agencies 
to purchase synthetic, low-carbon fuels; 
according to an analysis by Rhodium 
Group,105 DOD could ramp up 
competitive procurement of DAC-based 
fuels from 95 million gallons in 2023 to 
850 million gallons in 2030.
READ MORE
Read more about federal procurement 
strategies on page 36.
Recommendation:  
Establish DAC-to-fuels  
pathways through  
modification of the  
Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) or the creation 
of a federal Low Carbon Fuel Standard (LCFS)
Congress should restructure the RFS to include DAC-to-fuel eligibility, 
directing EPA to approve a pathway for these fuels.
Although ambitious, one of the most effective strategies for incentivizing 
the use of DAC-to-fuel would be for Congress to implement a federal 
version of California’s LCFS. One additional benefit of this direction is 
that credits could be established for other forms of carbon removal such 
as DAC to carbon storage and stacked with other incentives such as the 
45Q tax credit.
7 . B
7 . B
104.  Scheelhaase, J., Maertens, S., & 
Grimme, W. (2019). Synthetic fuels in 
aviation – Current barriers and 
potential political measures. 
Transportation Research Procedia, 
43. https://www.sciencedirect.com/
science/article/pii/
S2352146519305824
105.  Larsen, J., Herndon, W., Grant, M., & 
Marsters, P. (2019). Capturing Leader-
ship: Policies for the US to Advance 
Direct Air Capture Technology. 
Rhodium Group. https://rhg.com/
research/capturing-leadership-poli-
cies-for-the-us-to-advance-direct-
air-capture-technology/ 
Expanded RFS policy support and 
cost of DAC-to-fuels estimates
30-year levelized $2018/gallon
Expanded Policy Support
Current Policy Support
Average Product Revenue
Median Break Even Cost 
SOURCE:  
Larsen, J., Herdon, W., Grant, M., & Marsters, P. (2019). Capturing 
Leadership Policies for the US to Advance Direct Air Capture Technology. 
Rhodium Group. https://rhg.com/research/capturing-leadership-policies-
for-the-us-to-advance-direct-air-capture-technology/
$9
$8
$7
$6
$5
$4
$3
$2
$1
$0
FIRST PLANT
$5.15
$7.68
NINTH PLANT
$4.24
$1.78
$0.49
$0.33
$2.95
$3.04
51 
Zero, Then Negative   •   Tech-Based Approaches
Pre-permit geologic storage on federal land 
Geologic saline storage refers to permanently storing CO2 from the 
atmosphere underground and is the final step in many carbon capture 
and carbon removal systems. Developers of carbon removal solutions like 
DAC need technical assistance to locate suitable geologic storage 
reservoirs and build CO2 injection well infrastructure. It is critical to 
identify and assess different geologic storage resources so that 
developers have access to safe and permanent CO2 storage. Pre-
permitting Class VI wells on federal lands can help bolster support for 
carbon removal and allow developers a more structured path to storing 
carbon dioxide. By 2018, DOI had permitted and leased 12.8 million 
acres with 96,000 wells for oil and gas leasing, which has been crucial 
for the scaling of natural gas and crude extraction.106 Cooperation 
among several departments and agencies could facilitate a similar 
process for the purpose of carbon dioxide removal.
The US has billions of tons of deep saline storage widespread in both 
onshore and offshore formations, yet there are only two active Class VI 
wells in use today.107 Federal R&D efforts over the past decade have 
shifted from small demonstrations to understanding the technical and 
commercial viability of large commercial-scale projects.108 R&D efforts 
can be amplified with increased agency capacity to assess, report, and 
prepare Class VI well infrastructure. DOE, EPA, USDA, and DOI have the 
resources and expertise to pre-permit Class VI wells on federal lands to 
accelerate the deployment of large-scale carbon removal solutions like 
DAC and keep the US on track to meet climate goals.
READ MORE
Read more about Class VI improvements on page 53.  
The 117th Congress has introduced a few bills to support geologic 
sequestration. S. 799/H.R. 1992, the SCALE Act, would increase the 
capacity of EPA to review and grant geologic sequestration permits, and 
extend those powers to states, fund cost-share for CO2 transport 
infrastructure, and provide grants for state and local governments to 
procure CO2 utilization products for infrastructure projects. H.R. 1512, the 
CLEAN Future Act, increases funding for geologic storage by increasing 
the authorization for activities related to permitting Class VI wells and 
providing grants for states to establish their own geologic storage 
permitting programs.  
BY COURTNI HOLNESS & 
TIM STEEVES, PHD
8.
106.  US Bureau of Land Management. 
(n.d.). About the BLM Oil and Gas 
Program. US Department of Interior. 
https://www.blm.gov/programs/
energy-and-minerals/oil-and-gas/
about
107.  National Energy Technology 
Laboratory. (2014, November). CO2 
Storage Resource Methodology. US 
Department of Energy. https://www.
netl.doe.gov/node/5964 
108.  Congressional Research Service. 
(2020, February 21). Carbon 
Sequestration Legislation in the 116th 
Congress. https://crsreports.
congress.gov/product/pdf/IF/IF11345
52 
Zero, Then Negative   •   Tech-Based Approaches
FY 2021 appropriations also continued support for geologic 
sequestration by allocating $3 million to the UIC Class VI well program to 
expand EPA’s expertise and capacity to ensure safe and secure geologic 
storage of CO2. 
Recommendation: Direct DOE, EPA, US  
Geological Survey (USGS), USDA, and DOI to 
collaborate and fund an interagency program to 
support the pre-permitting of Class VI UIC 
wells on federal lands  
The pre-permitting process should assess the social, environmental,  
and economic impacts of injecting CO2 into deep saline storage 
reservoirs across the US. The federal government should perform 
environmental impact assessments for sites with deep saline storage 
that 1) are or able to be co-located with low-carbon energy and carbon 
removal solutions such as DAC, 2) include community and tribal 
government consultation, 3) address and monitor the ecological and 
environmental impacts of injecting CO2 below the surface, 4) pre-screen 
for relevant environmental laws including SDWA, NEPA, Endangered 
Species Act, and CWA, and 5) comply with the appropriate EPA 
guidance for the UIC program for safe and durable storage of CO2 in 
saline formations (Class VI Permit).
READ MORE
Read more about siting DAC facilities on page 42.  
Recommendation: DOI should pre-permit and 
lease federal land for permanent, saline geologic 
carbon storage to help project developers  
effectively navigate current inefficiencies in  
the Class VI UIC program, while maintaining 
environmental and public health standards 
The pre-permitting assessments should be comprehensive and result in 
the creation of a database that includes assessment information such as 
1) site maps with geologic and environmental characteristics, 2) public 
participation comments and considerations, and 3) answers to related 
EJ questions about whether sites may exacerbate any existing 
disproportionate impacts to minority and low-income communities. DOI 
should work with EPA to ensure permits are processed expediently and in 
compliance with UIC regulations, prioritizing sites near retired oil and 
8 . A
8 . B
53 
Zero, Then Negative   •   Tech-Based Approaches
gas industries to facilitate new employment opportunities. Finally, EPA 
and DOI should work closely with the Internal Revenue Service to ensure 
that projects eligible for 45Q tax credit comply with all EPA provisions 
before credits are provided. 
RELATED RESOURCE
–  Geologic Carbon Storage, Carbon180 
–  Geologic Storage Is Permanent: An FAQ with Bruce Hill, Clean Air Task Force
–  Storing CO2: Planning Tomorrow’s Net-Zero Infrastructure,  
Clean Air Task Force
–  Injection and Geologic Sequestration of Carbon Dioxide: Federal Role and 
Issues for Congress, Congressional Research Service 
Update the Class VI underground injection  
well permitting process to enable more rapid 
development of geologic carbon storage 
Carbon removal at scale requires not only methods for capturing CO2  
but also storing it. Geologic formations in the US have the capacity to 
store an estimated 3,000 Gt of CO2, which is more than enough to  
meet our needs — but there remain barriers to accessing this storage 
potential.109
Geologic storage of CO2 is facilitated by underground injection wells that 
pump CO2 deep underground, where it is permanently stored.  
EPA permits injection wells for geologic storage (Class VI), but only six 
permits have ever been issued, four of which expired before the project 
could begin.
To access the massive potential of geologic storage — and concurrently 
accelerate technological carbon removal solutions — we need to 
improve the permitting process for Class VI wells.
Recommendation: Increase funding for the EPA’s 
UIC program and direct funds directly to Class 
VI permitting 
Due to the speed at which Class VI wells will need to be built and 
brought online, expansion of permitting capacity is an urgent goal. In 
addition to near-term appropriations to the UIC program for Class VI 
BY TIM STEEVES, PHD
9.
GLOSSARY
Class VI wells 
Class VI wells are used to inject 
CO2 into deep rock formations, 
resulting in long-term geologic 
carbon storage. The Class 
VI well program facilitates 
safe geologic storage and 
protects underground sources 
of drinking water. Class VI 
wells face a different set of 
regulations than those used for 
oil and gas-related injection 
(Class II wells).
109.  US Geological Survey Geologic 
Carbon Dioxide Storage Resources 
Assessment Team. (2013). National 
Assessment of Geologic Carbon 
Dioxide Storage Resource — Results. 
US Geological Survey. https://pubs.
usgs.gov/circ/1386/
9 . A
54 
Zero, Then Negative   •   Tech-Based Approaches
permitting capacity, additional funds should be specifically 
appropriated to build human capital over the next several years. 
Technical expertise and computer model licensing is a large part of the 
analysis required for class VI permitting, and technical talent for this 
work will need to be recruited and cultivated. At least $10 million per 
year should be put toward this specific goal over the next 10 years.
Recommendation: Review permitting procedure 
and amend the process to allow for more rapid 
permitting
Currently, applications for Class VI are so intensive and cumbersome that 
they are a bottleneck for project development. Preparing and reviewing 
applications is time-consuming. To ameliorate this, Congress should 
mandate a review and refresh of the standard permitting process that 
allows for both rapid (less than six months) turnaround on applications, 
while still exercising an abundance of caution for natural resources and 
prioritizing the health and safety of frontline communities. Pre-
permitting sites on federal land in collaboration with DOE RD&D projects 
can also enable rapid deployment of projects.
READ MORE
Read more about pre-permitting geologic storage on page 51.  
Recommendation: Direct some of the additional 
funds for the UIC permitting program to review 
and process state primacy applications
Additional agility may be accessed by allowing more state governments 
to issue permits. Wyoming and North Dakota have already been 
granted this ability, which is referred to as primacy. Primacy for this 
process allows states that have already retained talent and resources for 
geologic permitting in their regulatory structure to utilize those 
resources for Class VI permitting. These primacy applications are 
intensive and have taken years for EPA to review, and additional funding 
for the UIC program can be used to increase the capacity for primacy 
application review. Increasing federal funding for these state programs 
via grants is another way to increase overall capacity for Class VI 
permitting.
9 . B
9 . C
55 
Zero, Then Negative   •   Tech-Based Approaches
RELATED RESOURCE
–  Injection and Geologic Sequestration of Carbon Dioxide: Federal Role and 
Issues for Congress, Congressional Research Service
Create a pipeline development task force  
to site pipelines connecting CO2 sources to  
storage facilities
In many proposed carbon capture and carbon removal projects, the 
facilities that perform capture and storage, respectively, are located 
directly next to one another, or co-located (e.g., establishing a DAC plant 
on the same site as a geologic storage well). However, in practice it may 
be more common that these sites are separated by distances that will 
require transportation infrastructure. This is a product of the energy and 
land use requirements associated with DAC technologies and the current 
placement of many emitting facilities compatible with CCS retrofits.
In some cases, relatively small volumes of CO2 can be transported 
economically by train or truck, but eventually the scale of carbon 
removal will require a more robust transportation system in the form of 
pipelines. Thousands of miles of CO2 pipelines are already in use 
supporting enhanced oil recovery (EOR) and other applications.110 Some 
of these existing pipelines and new ones built specifically to connect 
carbon removal and CCS projects could be utilized to effectively network 
pilot and demonstration plants to appropriate geological sequestration 
sites. (Many small DAC projects are being routed to one larger geological 
storage site via pipeline.)
Furthermore, decarbonizing other heavy emissions industries such as 
concrete or steel does not allow for co-location unless the industrial site 
is already on a suitable site for another form of storage. A strategically 
placed pipeline will allow for many different decarbonization projects to 
funnel into several larger geological storage sites.
Recommendation: Establish a CO2 transport 
pipeline task force at the federal level
Create an interagency task force (including DOE, EPA, DOI, and others) in 
collaboration with industry, civil society stakeholders, and current carbon 
removal and CCS efforts to assess where pipelines might be ideally sited, 
how public participation would function, and to understand the 
BY TIM STEEVES, PHD
10.
10 . A
110.  Dooley, J. J., Dahowski, R. T. & 
Davidson, C. L. (2008). Comparing 
Existing Pipeline Networks with the 
Potential Scale of Future US CO2 
Pipeline Networks. Pacific Northwest 
National Laboratory.  https://www.
pnnl.gov/main/publications/
external/technical_reports/
PNNL-17381.pdf 
56 
Zero, Then Negative   •   Tech-Based Approaches
economic and labor impacts of a large-scale pipeline network. 
Connection to proposed RD&D will enable scale-up by integrating 
multiple smaller sites into one storage facility. This task force should 
prioritize current and proposed geological storage sites and DAC 
facilities.
RELATED RESOURCES
–  Infrastructure to Enable Deployment of Carbon Capture, Utilization, and 
Storage in the United States, Proceedings of the National Academy of 
Sciences
–  Review of the CO2 Pipeline Infrastructure in the US, DOE Office of Fossil Energy
Create an RD&D program for enhanced CO2 
mineralization 
CO2 storage achieved via mineralization is long term, and engineers can 
enhance the rate of mineralization reactions for carbon removal 
applications in climate change mitigation.111  
Mineralization may be enhanced in three ways: 1) ex situ, which involves 
extracting and grinding minerals for reaction with CO2 at the surface, 2) 
in situ, where CO2 is injected below the surface into reactive rocks, and 3) 
surficial, which uses mine tailings and alkaline industrial wastes for 
ambient weathering, since these materials are already present at the 
surface.112 Additionally, solid industrial alkaline wastes require resources 
to be treated and managed, and mineralization can aid this process 
and serve dual purposes. Methods to enhance mineralization are 
gaining popularity as an alternative in places where there is no long-
term reservoir for CO2. 
Ex-situ methods are the most expensive and time-intensive, and they 
can be carbon neutral or carbon negative depending on the CO2 source. 
In-situ methods require a relatively short timeframe to achieve 
mineralization — potentially making it a more straightforward approach 
to socialize. Surficial mineralization methods can be carbon neutral or 
carbon negative depending on each system framework. Increased RD&D 
support is needed to understand the different enhancement pathways’ 
1) applications for geologic storage, industrial waste feedstocks, soil 
amendments, and other developing applications, and 2) social, 
environmental, and economic impacts.
For example, CarbFix has been innovating geologic carbon storage 
through in-situ mineralization since 2007 and recently launched 
CarbFix2, designed to make the methodology economically viable and 
BY COURTNI HOLNESS
11.
111.  Dipple, G., Kelemen, P., & Woodall, C. 
M. (2021). “The Building Blocks of CDR 
Systems.” CDR Primer. https://
cdrprimer.org/read/chapter-2#sec-2-1
112.  Dipple, G., Kelemen, P., & Woodall, C. 
M. (2021). “The Building Blocks of CDR 
Systems.” CDR Primer. https://
cdrprimer.org/read/chapter-2#sec-2-1
57 
Zero, Then Negative   •   Tech-Based Approaches
integrated into carbon capture and sequestration (CCS) technologies.113 
De Beers Group has a program called CarbonVault to research surficial 
mineralization methods.114 Similarly, Project Vesta is piloting enhanced 
weathering in coastal regions to assess the safety, effectiveness, and 
other implications of adding olivine to beaches for mineralization 
purposes. The costs of mineralization can be reduced by selling 
carbonate products for use in the construction industry.115 CarbonCure, a 
low-carbon concrete company, innovated a carbon removal technology 
that integrates CO2 mineralization infrastructure and permanently 
embeds CO2 into their concrete.116
Recommendation: Authorize and fund a  
new RD&D program for early and mid-stage 
enhanced CO2 mineralization for geologic  
storage, industrial waste feedstocks, soil  
amendments, and other nascent applications 
The federal government has access to national laboratories and the 
financial resources to lead RD&D efforts for enhanced CO2 
mineralization. The program should be funded at $70 million per year 
over 10 years, with the proposed CO2 mineralization RD&D agenda 
responsibilities as follows:
Direct DOE’s Office of Fossil Energy to:
•   coordinate with NSF Directorate for Geosciences (GEO) and carry out 
pilot studies of in situ-enhanced CO2 mineralization,
•   coordinate with EPA Office of Research and Development (ORD), 
USGS, and relevant national laboratories to carry out pilot studies of 
ex situ-enhanced CO2 mineralization,
•   coordinate with DOI USGS for resource assessments involving mapping 
and assessing geologic resources, mine tailings, and other alkaline 
industrial wastes for mineralization, and
•   develop a public database for carbon mineralization to track projects 
and data. With regard to the second point, USGS, EPA, and the Office 
of Fossil Energy should also coordinate with USDA agencies, including 
the Agricultural Research Service (ARS) and National Institute of Food 
and Agriculture (NIFA), to perform or fund intramural and extramural 
research on enhanced mineralizing applications in croplands. 
113.  Carbfix. (2021). Carbfix 2.  https://
www.carbfix.com/carbfix2 
114.  De Beers Group. (n.d.). CarbonVault. 
https://www.debeersgroup.com/
sustainability-and-ethics/
protecting-the-natural-world/
carbon-vault 
115.  Dipple, G., Kelemen, P., & Woodall, C. 
M. (2021). “The Building Blocks of CDR 
Systems.” CDR Primer. https://
cdrprimer.org/read/chapter-2#sec-2-1 
116   CarbonCure. (2021). About. https://
www.carboncure.com/about/ 
GLOSSARY
CO2 mineralization 
A process that occurs naturally 
in the environment when 
CO2 from the atmosphere 
reacts with rocks and forms 
inert minerals that pose little 
groundwater contamination 
risk.
Carbonate products 
Products made from CO2 
that has been converted into 
solid mineral form. These 
products can augment and/or 
substitute traditional concrete 
components such as cement 
and aggregates.
11 . A
58 
Zero, Then Negative   •   Tech-Based Approaches
Recommendation: Direct EPA ORD  
and DOI USGS to conduct studies identifying  
environmental impacts of mineral additions to 
terrestrial, coastal, and marine environments 
and disturbing piles of mine tailings  
Potential environmental risks associated with carbon mineralization 
include large water requirements, water contamination risk from mining 
activities, local air pollution, management of waste rocks, and heavy 
metal pollution in soils.117 Other environmental concerns include the 
disruption and distribution of piles of mine tailings, which can affect local 
environments and biodiversity. Further research is needed to identify 
parameters and measurement capabilities, and standards for 
environmentally acceptable disruption.
Recommendation: Direct NSF GEO and DOI 
USGS to conduct studies identifying social  
impacts of an expanded mining industry for the 
purpose of enhanced CO2 mineralization 
Some environmental concerns include dispersing mine tailings on 
coastlines or shallow seafloors, seismic activity due to injecting CO2, and 
expanding the mining industry for the purpose of carbon removal. 
Further research is needed to identify and measure social factors and to 
determine a threshold for social acceptance.
RELATED RESOURCES
–  Clearing The Air: A Federal RD&D Initiative and Management Plan for Carbon 
Dioxide Removal Technologies, Energy Futures Initiative
–  Mineralization Technology for Carbon Capture, Utilization, and Storage, 
Frontiers in Energy Research   
–  Negative Emissions Technologies and Reliable Sequestration: A Research 
Agenda, National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine
11 . B
11 . C
117.  EFI and EJM Associates. (2019). 
Clearing the Air. Energy Futures 
Initiative. https://www.dropbox.
com/s/2y36ngfrcbpv37f/EFI%20
Clearing%20the%20Air%20Full%20
Report.pdf?dl=0 
GLOSSARY
CO2 mineralization 
A process that occurs naturally 
in the environment when 
CO2 from the atmosphere 
reacts with rocks and forms 
inert minerals that pose little 
groundwater contamination 
risk.
59 
Zero, Then Negative   •   Cross-Solution Approaches
COME TOGETHER
Cross-Solution 
Approaches
The diversity of carbon removal solutions — spanning the energy, forestry, 
agriculture, and mining sectors — provides both obstacles and opportunities. No 
one solution can solve the challenges presented by the climate crisis; alongside 
emissions reductions, we must aim to develop and deploy these solutions in 
tandem. At the same time, each solution has a series of co-benefits that can drive 
healthy, resilient, and economically thriving communities across the US. From 
formerly fossil-centered communities in West Virginia to farmers adapting to 
climate change in California, carbon removal can provide us with an opportunity to 
actively create the low-carbon future we need. 
Historically, carbon removal solutions have been developed in siloes. This has slowed 
progress and prevented the field from creatively finding synergies around solution 
development and deployment. Perhaps surprisingly, the myriad carbon removal 
solutions face a number of similar challenges, including:
•  need for innovation to improve technological certainty and decrease costs,
•  insufficient infrastructure to deploy solutions at scale, and
•  few robust markets that would drive equitable deployment.
Because of these common obstacles, the field would benefit from policy action that 
unites these solutions under a single umbrella and encourages consistency and 
collaboration across federal investments in carbon removal. Additionally, some 
carbon removal solutions like bioenergy with carbon capture and storage (BECCS) 
straddle the land and tech sectors, making it even more critical to develop federal 
policy that takes into consideration how to best develop these solutions utilizing 
expertise across federal agencies.
60 
Zero, Then Negative   •   Cross-Solution Approaches
Expand and pass the CREATE Act to  
ensure a comprehensive, cross-agency carbon 
removal strategy
Carbon removal solutions are technical and varied, and it is imperative 
that the diversity of the carbon removal portfolio be reflected in formal 
coordination across federal agencies. At present, federal carbon removal 
projects have been initiated in disjoint programs, but their growth and 
success depends on the implementation of a more comprehensive 
strategy. The Energy Act of 2020 established a much needed Carbon 
Removal Program within DOE with coordination from other agencies 
including USDA, but the breadth of carbon removal solutions requires an 
even broader governance structure. 
The introduction of the bipartisan CREATE Act heralded a shift toward a 
more holistic vision for the government’s role in carbon removal. This 
legislation includes the creation of a large-scale carbon management 
committee, a federal carbon removal initiative, and working groups 
tasked with the development of various categories of carbon removal 
solutions. 
While the CREATE Act in its current form provides the potential for the 
most comprehensive policy for federal carbon removal to date, it does 
not include provisions for EJ or international coordination — 
considerations that are crucial for the development of a durable and 
equitable carbon removal future. To lay the foundation for a robust and 
effective federal carbon removal strategy, Congress should prioritize 
passage of an expanded CREATE Act. 
Recommendation: Prioritize passing an  
expanded CREATE Act that includes the  
following provisions and modifications
•   Expand the executive committee to include one senior official from 
each of the following agences: DOI, EPA, Department of Commerce, 
and NSF.
BY GIANA AMADOR & 
LUCIA SIMONELLI, PHD
1.
1  . A
61 
Zero, Then Negative   •   Cross-Solution Approaches
•   Additions to section (b) (2) under duties of committee should include a 
governance subsection:
(G) incorporating appropriate governance structures and metrics,
(i)  engaging a comprehensive array of stakeholders across all 
carbon removal solutions,
(ii)  ensuring that public participation is prioritized through all 
phases of carbon removal development and deployment, and
(iii)  evaluating federal carbon removal initiatives across the 
portfolio using the metrics developed by the EJ working group.
•   Establish a working group for EJ to identify metrics for environmental, 
social, and labor considerations across the carbon removal portfolio. 
These metrics should include preservation of environmental integrity, 
protection of frontline communities, and transition opportunities for 
fossil fuel workers.
Recommendation: Establish a working group for 
international coordination
The working group for international coordination should be tasked with 
coordinating carbon removal technology transfer, collaborating with 
other countries to facilitate equitable and durable carbon removal 
development and deployment, especially in the Global South, and 
creating a framework for formal collaboration in cross-solution carbon 
removal development, similar to Mission Innovation or the Carbon 
Sequestration Leadership Forum.
RELATED RESOURCES
– IC3 Innovation Action Plan on Carbon Capture, Mission Innovation
– Policy Group, Carbon Sequestration Leadership Forum
Codify the Interagency Working Group on  
Environmental Justice (EJ IWG) and strengthen 
requirements for the integration of EJ across 
federal agencies
A whole-of-government approach is critical to address the scope, scale, 
and urgency of the impending climate crisis. However, equity and justice 
must underpin all efforts to ensure that nobody is left behind. 
BY UGBAAD KOSAR &  
VANESSA SUAREZ
2.
1  . B
62 
Zero, Then Negative   •   Cross-Solution Approaches
In 1994, the EJ IWG was established to coordinate and advance EJ  
principles across the government. Each federal agency within the EJ 
IWG has a strategy to integrate EJ into programmatic efforts; however, 
these strategies are outdated and insufficient, and they must expand in 
scope and reach. An equitable and sustainable scale-up of carbon 
removal will require a stronger effort to advance EJ priorities into all 
federal programs and activities, especially those that impact carbon 
removal RDD&D.
Recommendation: Codify and expand the EJ IWG 
to improve the integration of EJ principles in all 
federal activities 
The working group should be housed in EPA and ensure representation 
from every federal agency. The scope of the EJ IWG should include:
•   strengthening the coordination across federal agencies and advising 
agencies in identifying and addressing any disproportionate burdens 
or environmental impacts of federal policies or programs on 
underserved communities,
•   promoting meaningful involvement and due process in decision-
making and the development, implementation, and enforcement of 
new and existing environmental laws,
•   coordinating with and providing technical assistance to frontline 
communities to bolster self-determination of EJ communities, and
•   identifying areas to improve direct public engagement by federal 
agencies with frontline communities.
The EJ IWG should submit a report to Congress no later than two years 
after establishing detailed outcomes and findings of the task force.  
SIMILAR POLICIES
Bill Clinton’s Executive Order 12898 
Directs federal agencies to identify and address the disproportionate 
public and environmental health impacts their actions may have on 
socially disadvantaged communities, develop an EJ strategy, and promote 
nondiscrimination in federal programs. 
Joe Biden’s Executive Order 14008 
Directs federal agencies to incorporate EJ into their programs, policies, and 
activities, establishes a White House Environmental Justice Interagency 
Council, creates a Justice40 Initiative, and orders development of a Climate 
and Justice Screening Tool. 
2  . A
CURRENT INITIATIVES
The Justice40 Initiative 
A government-wide effort 
established through a Biden 
executive order, the Justice40 
Initiative would deliver 40% 
of the overall benefits of 
relevant federal investments to 
disadvantaged communities. 
This is an important step 
in promoting distributive 
justice and should consider 
investments for carbon 
removal projects.
63 
Zero, Then Negative   •   Cross-Solution Approaches
Grijalva-McEachin/Ruiz-Booker Environmental Justice for All Act 
Would establish several EJ requirements, advisory bodies, and programs to 
address the disproportionate adverse human health or environmental effects of 
federal laws or programs on communities of color, low-income communities, or 
tribal and Indigenous communities.
RELATED RESOURCES
–  Cumulative Environmental Impacts: Science and Policy to Protect 
Communities, Annual Review of Public Health
–  Federal Agency EJ Strategies & Annual Implementation Progress Reports, 
EPA
Create an interdisciplinary roadmap for BECCS 
deployment options
Estimates around the capacity for BECCS to contribute to global climate 
change mitigation vary widely. For example, integrated assessment 
model (IAM) scenarios propose US annual carbon removal from BECCS to 
be as high as 1 gigaton of CO2 by 2050, while the World Resources 
Institute estimates this number to be only 0.3 gigatons or less.118, 119 This 
variability reflects uncertainty around sustainable biomass production, 
scale of deployment, impact on land use change and food prices, ability 
of electricity generation from biomass to compete with renewables, and 
potential impacts of large-scale BECCS on community economic and 
social wellbeing. BECCS and biomass-based carbon removal possess 
significant potential for combating climate change, as they offer 
low-cost carbon removal, revenue streams for farmers, and the potential 
for displacing fossil fuels in various energy and industry sectors. However, 
concerns around sustainable biomass sources and lack of infrastructure 
and effective governance structures continue to hinder the potential 
benefits. BECCS deployment can have implications on food, water, 
energy, biodiversity, economy, and social systems in the US. As a result, 
the role it plays in US climate mitigation efforts should be assessed in an 
integrated manner that takes the cross-cutting impact of BECCS into 
account. 
BY MERON TESFAYE, PHD
3.
118.   Peters, G., & Geden, O. (2017). 
Catalysing a political shift from low 
to negative carbon. Nature Climate 
Change 7, 619–621. https://doi.
org/10.1038/nclimate3369
119.  Mulligan, J., Rudee, A., Lebling, K., 
Levin, K., Anderson, J., & Christensen, 
B. (2020). CarbonShot: Federal Policy 
Options for Carbon Removal in the 
United States. World Resources 
Institute. https://www.wri.org/
publication/carbonshot-federal-poli-
cy-options-for-carbon-removal-in-
the-united-states
64 
Zero, Then Negative   •   Cross-Solution Approaches
Recommendation: Develop a deployment  
roadmap for BECCS that ensures climate and 
social good 
Congress should direct DOE’s Bioenergy Technology Office (BETO) to 
develop a roadmap that lays out opportunities and risks associated with 
deployment scenarios for BECCS and biomass-based carbon removal in 
the US, in partnership with DOE’s Office of Fossil Energy and USDA. BETO 
should assemble an interdisciplinary team to advise Congress on policy 
and US investment options including:
•   realizable carbon removal pathways for biomass resources in the US, 
prioritizing waste biomass or biomass with minimal environmental 
impacts, 
•   improvement of life cycle assessment tools and standards of practice 
for biomass carbon removal, 
•   role of biomass in energy, transportation, hard-to-abate and biomass 
utilization sectors, 
•   job and revenue potential associated with different deployment 
scenarios, 
•   impact of international biomass-carbon marketplace on US, and
•   socioeconomic consequences and EJ considerations for different 
deployment scenarios and multi-decade national goals.
RELATED RESOURCE
–  2020 Roadmap: Biomass Carbon Removal and Storage,  
Innovation for Cool Earth Forum
Include biomass-based carbon removal products 
in the Value-Added Producer Grant program
According to the 2016 Billion-Ton report, agricultural waste and residues 
such as stalks, husks, cobs, and other biomass accounts for more than 
30% of all dry biomass feedstock available in the US.120 While some 
residues should be left on the ground to protect against soil erosion and 
loss of soil carbon, a large quantity of biomass remains underutilized in 
leaves and stalks after harvest. Current practice of crop residue disposal 
(leaving excess residue on the field and burning it in open air) can result 
in increased greenhouse gas emissions and local air pollution.121 Farmers 
and agricultural producers can reap climate and financial benefits by 
BY MERON TESFAYE, PHD
4.
GLOSSARY
Bioenergy with carbon 
capture and storage (BECCS) 
A form of energy production 
that utilizes plant biomass to 
create electricity, hydrogen, 
heat, and/or liquid fuel. 
This process simultaneously 
captures and sequesters some 
portion of the carbon from the 
biomass for storage.
3  . A
120.  Langholtz, M. H., Stokes, B. J., & 
Eaton, L. M. (2016). 2016 Billion-Ton 
report: Advancing Domestic 
Resources for a Thriving Bioeconomy, 
Volume 1. US Department of Energy. 
https://www.energy.gov/eere/
bioenergy/downloads/2016-bil-
lion-ton-report-advancing-domes-
tic-resources-thriving-bioeconomy
121.  Tripathi, N., Hills, C. D., Singh, R. S. & 
Atkinson, C. J.l. (2019). Biomass waste 
utilisation in low-carbon products: 
harnessing a major potential 
resource. npj Climate and Atmospher-
ic Science, 2(35). https://doi.
org/10.1038/s41612-019-0093-5
65 
Zero, Then Negative   •   Cross-Solution Approaches
producing high-value products that also have significant carbon removal 
benefits using ag crop residue. 
Small, individualized, modular pyrolysis units can be used on farms to 
produce bio-oil and biochar.122 Biochar can be used as a soil amendment 
to improve crop yield, soil fertility, and nutrient and water-holding 
capacity, while serving as a carbon sequestration sink. Other carbon-
negative higher-value products such as compost, consumer products, 
energy storage products, adsorbents, and catalysts can be derived from 
biochar. Bio-oil can be utilized to provide energy and substitute fossil 
fuel sources or store CO2 below ground via direct bio-oil injection and 
disposal.123 These routes can provide revenue streams for agricultural 
producers through value-added products. Inclusion of bio-oil and 
biochar for carbon-negative products in the Value-Added Producer 
Grant program can stimulate distributed utility of biomass for carbon 
removal, lower the cost of pyrolysis units, and provide direct 
environmental and financial benefit to agricultural producers.
Recommendation: Modify the Value-Added  
Producer Grant program to enable modular 
carbon removal
Congress should direct USDA to modify the Value-Added Producer Grant 
program to include biomass-based carbon-negative products such as 
bio-oil and biochar and expand working capital expense eligibility to 
include conversion technologies. For sustainable production and 
maximal environmental benefit, USDA should limit projects to producers 
that utilize crop residue and other on-farm waste. Along with regular 
financial performance reports received from grant recipients, USDA 
should facilitate life cycle assessments of these products for producers 
and require periodic carbon reporting and transparency to collect data 
as well as develop a standard of practice and certification process in the 
near future.
122.  Wu, P., Ata-Ul-Karim, S. T., Singh, B. P., 
et al. (2019). A scientometric review of 
biochar research in the past 20 years 
(1998–2018). Biochar, 1(1), 23-43. 
https://doi.org/10.1007/s42773-019-
00002-9
123.  Sandalow, D., Aines, R., Friedmann, 
J., McCormick, C., & Sanchez, D. 
(2020). Biomass Carbon Removal and 
Storage (BiCRS) Roadmap. 
Innovation for Cool Earth Forum. 
https://www.icef-forum.org/
roadmap/
GLOSSARY
Pyrolysis 
Breakdown of biomass (plants, 
residue, or organic material) 
under moderate to high 
temperature and anaerobic 
conditions to produce heat, 
bio-oil, gas, and biochar.
Bio-oil 
Liquid fuel produced from the 
breakdown of biomass through 
pyrolysis.
Biochar 
A long-lived, carbon-rich 
charcoal-like product used 
as soil additive and produced 
from the breakdown of 
biomass through pyrolysis.
4 . A
66 
Zero, Then Negative   •   Executive Summary
To get in touch about the  
recommendations in this report, 
email policy@carbon180.org.
