Drax Power Group of the Electricity Supply Pension Scheme 
Statement of Investment Principles (“SIP”) 
Purpose of this Statement 
This SIP has been prepared by the Group Trustees acting on behalf of the members of the 
Drax Power Group (“the Group”) of the Electricity Supply Pension Scheme (“ESPS”). This 
statement sets out the principles governing the Group Trustees’ decisions to invest the assets 
of the Group.  
The Group’s investment objectives and strategy were derived from the Group Trustees’ 
Investment Beliefs, set out in Appendix A. The beliefs have been taken into account at all 
stages of planning, implementation and monitoring of the investment strategy. 
The Group Trustees have also taken the Myners’ Principles into consideration when making 
decisions about the Group’s investment arrangements. 
Details on the Group’s investment arrangements are set out in the Investment Implementation 
Document (“IID”). 
Investment objectives 
The Group Trustees invest the assets of the Group with the aim of ensuring that all members’ 
accrued benefits can be paid. The Group’s funding target is specified in the Statement of 
Funding Principles. The Group funding position will be reviewed on an ongoing basis to 
assess the position relative to the funding target and whether the investment arrangements 
remain appropriate to the Group’s circumstances. 
The Group’s present investment objective is to achieve a return of around 2.1% per annum 
above the return on UK Government bonds.  
The Group’s current investment strategy is invested according to the following broad asset 
allocation: 
Asset Class 
Proportion 
(%) 
Expected Return (relative 
to fixed interest gilts)(1) % 
Cardano Return Seeking Mandate 
37.0 
3.5 
Direct Lending 
10.0 
4.0 
Absolute Return Bonds 
3.0 
1.5 
Long Lease Property 
10.0 
2.5 
Liability Driven Investment (LDI)(2) 
40.0 
0.2 
Total 
100.0 
2.1 
(1) 
10 year assumptions as at 30 September 2018 (net of management fees). 
(2) 
Includes an allocation to corporate bonds expected to be c.7% of Group assets. 
Investment strategy 
The Group’s investment strategy was derived following careful consideration of the nature 
and duration of the Group’s liabilities, the risks of investing in the various asset classes, the 
implications of the strategy (under various scenarios) for the level of contributions required to 
fund the Group, and also the strength of the sponsoring company’s covenant. The Group 
Trustees considered the merits of a range of asset classes, including various “alternative 
assets”. 
The Group Trustees recognise that the investment strategy is subject to risk, in particular the 
risk of a mismatch between the performance of the assets and the calculated value of the 
liabilities. This risk is monitored by regularly assessing the funding position and the 
characteristics of the assets and liabilities. The risk is managed by investing in assets which 
are expected to perform in excess of the liabilities over the long term, and also by investing in 
a suitably diversified portfolio of assets with the aim of minimising (as far as possible) 
volatility relative to the liabilities.  
The Group Trustees have also considered a number of other risks set out in Appendix B. 
The assets of the Group consist predominantly of investments which are traded on regulated 
markets. 
Investment Management Arrangements 
The Group Trustees have appointed several investment managers to manage the assets of the 
Group as listed in the IID. The investment managers are regulated under the Financial 
Services and Markets Act 2000. 
All decisions about the day-to-day management of the assets have been delegated to the 
investment managers via a written agreement. The delegation includes decisions about: 
- 
Realisation of investments; 
- 
Social, environmental, ethical and governance considerations in selection, retention 
and realisation of investments; 
- 
The exercise of rights (including voting rights) attaching to the investments. 
The Group Trustees take investment managers’ policies into account when selecting and 
monitoring managers. The Group Trustees also take into account the performance targets the 
investment managers are evaluated on. The investment managers are expected to exercise 
their powers of investment with a view to giving effect to the principles contained within this 
statement, so far as reasonably practicable. 
The investment managers’ remuneration is based upon a percentage value of the assets under 
management. The fees have been negotiated to be competitive and are reviewed on an 
ongoing basis. The Group’s mandates for the Direct Lending funds are also subject to a 
performance related fee element. 
As the Group’s assets are invested in pooled vehicles, the custody of the holdings is arranged 
by the investment manager. 
Investment Manager Monitoring and Engagement  
The Group Trustees monitor and engage with the Group’s investment managers and other 
stakeholders on a variety of issues. Below is a summary of the areas covered and how the 
Group Trustees seek to engage on these matters with investment managers. 
Areas for 
engagement 
Method for monitoring and engagement  
Circumstances for additional 
monitoring and engagement 
Performance, 
Strategy and 
Risk 
•
The Group Trustees receive a
quarterly performance reports
which details information on the
underlying investments’
performance, strategy and overall
risks, which are considered at the
relevant Trustee meeting.
•
The Group’s investment managers
are invited, in person, to present
to the Group Trustees on their
performance, strategy and risk
exposures on an annual basis or
more frequently if issues arise.
•
There are significant
changes made to the
investment strategy.
•
The risk levels within
the assets managed
by the investment
managers have
increased to a level
above and beyond the
Group Trustees’
expectations.
•
Underperformance vs
the performance
objective over the
period that this
objective applies.
Environmental, 
Social, 
Corporate 
Governance 
factors and the  
exercising of 
rights 
•
The Group Trustees’ investment
managers provide annual reports
on how they have engaged with
issuers regarding social,
environmental and corporate
governance issues.
•
The Group Trustees receive
information from their investment
advisers on the investment
managers’ approaches to
engagement.
•
The manager has not
acted in accordance
with their policies
and frameworks.
•
The manager’s
policies are not in
line with the Group
Trustees’ policies in
this area.
Through the engagement described above, the Group Trustees will work with the investment 
managers to improve their alignment with the above policies. Where sufficient improvement 
is not observed, the Group Trustees may review the relevant investment manager’s 
appointment.  
Employer-related investments 
The policy of the Group Trustees is not to hold any employer-related investments as defined 
in the Pensions Act 1995 and the Occupational Pension Schemes (Investment) Regulations 
2005 except where the Group invests in collective investment schemes that may hold 
employer-related investments. In this case, the total exposure to employer-related investments 
will not exceed 5% of the Group’s total value. The Group Trustees will monitor this on an 
ongoing basis to ensure compliance. 
Direct investments 
Direct investments, as defined by the Pensions Act 1995, are products purchased without 
delegation to an investment manager through a written contract. When selecting and 
reviewing any direct investments, the Group Trustees will obtain appropriate written advice 
from their investment advisers. 
Governance 
The Group Trustees make all major strategic decisions including, but not limited to, the 
Group’s asset allocation and the appointment and termination of investment managers. 
When making such decisions, and when appropriate, the Group Trustees take proper written 
advice. The Group’s investment advisers, Isio Group Limited, are qualified by their ability in 
and practical experience of financial matters, and have the appropriate knowledge and 
experience. The investment adviser’s remuneration may be a fixed fee or based on time 
worked, as negotiated by the Group Trustees in the interests of obtaining best value for the 
Group. 
Compliance 
This Statement has been prepared in compliance with the Pensions Act 1995, the Pensions 
Act 2004, and the Occupational Pension Schemes (Investment) Regulations 2005. Before 
preparing or subsequently revising this Statement, the Group Trustees consulted the 
sponsoring company and took appropriate written advice. The Statement is reviewed at least 
every three years, and without delay after any significant change in the investment 
arrangements. 
Date:……………………………………. 
23 September 2020 
Appendix A – Investment Beliefs 
1. Investment strategy is the most important decision and should be based on clear 
objectives 
Our long term goal is to generate returns required to fund our members’ current and future 
pensions. 
Clear objectives are at the heart of our investment strategy. Risk tolerance, return requirement 
and time frame are our central considerations. 
Our strategy should aim to achieve the objectives with a high degree of confidence across a 
range of possible economic scenarios. 
2 There’s more to robust portfolio construction than diversification alone  
Excessive diversification can introduce inefficiency, cost and fail to protect our portfolio in a 
downturn. 
Pay-off profile of assets: We tailor the expected payoff profile of the Group’s investments 
around our required objectives. 
Excess liquidity of our Group: We utilise excess liquidity in order to access any illiquidity 
premium (when illiquidity is rewarded), taking into consideration known cash flow 
requirements and the need for flexibility. 
True diversification: We optimise true diversification of underlying risk drivers. 
3  We aim to select the most appropriate opportunities in the market  
A strategy that buys the right asset, at a fair price, will serve us better than buying the wrong 
asset at a cheap price. 
We consider the most appropriate potential market opportunities in order to help us achieve 
our long-term objective. 
4 A long term mind-set can be used to enhance returns 
As a long term investor we pursue incremental growth that rewards adherence to our strategic 
plan, rather pursuing short term opportunities rewarding speculation.  
We will mitigate or manage risks that we are not rewarded for. 
Returns are more predictable over a longer time period, as risk is diversified across different 
economic cycles. 
5 Excessive costs will erode performance 
An appealing investment opportunity can be wholly undermined by too high a cost base. 
Passive management, where viable, is considered the default approach. 
Active management is employed where value-add can be expected with confidence. 
6 Good governance improves our decision making 
We continuously strive to enhance our knowledge of the investment opportunities and risks 
facing our Group. 
We monitor the performance of our strategy and investment managers to improve our 
decision making. 
7 Our investment process reflects our beliefs on responsibly investing. 
We recognise that positive ESG factors can have a positive influence on the long term 
stability and returns of investments. However, mandates are selected with the purpose of 
maximising the chance of achieving the return objectives as set out in their mandates, which 
in combination aim to optimise the chance of achieving the Group’s overall strategic 
objective.   
The extent to which ESG and ethical considerations are taken into account in these decisions 
is delegated to the investment managers, acting within the guidelines and objectives set by 
the Group Trustees where practically possible.  
 
Appendix B – Risks 
A non-exhaustive list of risks and financially material considerations that the Group Trustees 
have considered and sought to manage is shown below.  
The Group Trustees adopt an integrated risk management approach. The three key risks 
associated within this framework and how they are managed are stated below: 
Risks 
Definition 
Policy 
Investment 
The risk that the Group’s 
position deteriorates due to 
the assets underperforming.  
• Selecting an investment objective 
that is achievable and is 
consistent with the Group’s 
funding basis and the sponsoring 
company’s covenant strength. 
• Investing in a diversified 
portfolio of assets. 
Funding 
The extent to which there 
are insufficient Group assets 
available to cover ongoing 
and future liability cash 
flows. 
• Funding risk is considered as part 
of the investment strategy review 
and the actuarial valuation.  
• The Group Trustees will agree an 
appropriate basis in conjunction 
with the investment strategy to 
ensure an appropriate journey 
plan is agreed to manage funding 
risk over time.  
Covenant 
The risk that the sponsoring 
company becomes unable to 
continue providing the 
required financial support to 
the Group. 
• When developing the Group’s 
investment and funding 
objectives, the Group Trustees 
take account of the strength of 
the covenant ensuring the level of 
risk the Group is exposed to is at 
an appropriate level for the 
covenant to support.  
 
The Group is exposed to a number of underlying risks relating to the Group’s investment 
strategy, these are summarised below: 
Risk 
Definition 
Policy 
Interest rates 
and inflation 
The risk of mismatch 
between the value of the 
Group assets and present 
value of liabilities from 
changes in interest rates and 
inflation expectations. 
To hedge c.75% of these risks on a gilts 
+0% basis.  
Liquidity 
Difficulties in raising 
sufficient cash when 
required without adversely 
impacting the fair market 
value of the investment.  
 
To maintain a sufficient allocation to 
liquid assets so that there is a prudent 
buffer to pay members benefits as they 
fall due (including transfer values), and 
to provide collateral to the LDI manager. 
Market  
 
Experiencing losses due to 
factors that affect the overall 
performance of the financial 
markets. 
To remain appropriately diversified and 
hedge away any unrewarded risks, where 
practicable.  
 
Credit 
Default on payments due as 
part of a financial security 
contract. 
 
To diversify this risk by investing in a 
range of credit markets across different 
geographies and sectors. 
To appoint investment managers who 
actively manage this risk by seeking to 
invest only in debt securities where the 
yield available sufficiently compensates 
the Group for the risk of default. 
Environmental, 
Social and 
Governance 
Exposure to Environmental, 
Social and Governance 
factors, including but not 
limited to climate change, 
which can impact the 
performance of the Group’s 
investments. 
To appoint managers who account for 
ESG factors as part of their investment 
process.  
 
The Group Trustees monitor the mangers 
in this regard on an ongoing basis.  
Currency 
The potential for adverse 
currency movements to 
have an impact on the 
Group’s investments. 
Hedge the currency risk on direct 
lending assets as much as practically 
possible.  
 
Non-financial 
Any factor that is not 
expected to have a financial 
impact on the Group’s 
investments. 
Non-financial matters are not taken into 
account in the selection, retention or 
realisation of investments. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix C  
The Group Trustees have the following policies in relation to the investment management 
arrangements for the Group: 
How the investment managers 
are incentivised to align their 
investment strategy and 
decisions with the Group 
Trustees’ policies. 
• The Group Trustees invest in pooled funds 
which are aligned to the strategic objective. It is 
recognised that due to the nature of pooled 
funds, there is not scope for these funds to be 
specifically tailored to the Group Trustees’ 
policies.  
• The Group’s mandate with Permira is subject to 
a performance related fee. 
How the investment managers 
are incentivised to make 
decisions based on 
assessments of medium to 
long-term financial and non-
financial performance of an 
issuer of debt or equity and to 
engage with them to improve 
performance in the medium to 
long-term. 
• The Group Trustees review the investment 
managers’ performance relative to medium and 
long-term objectives as documented in the 
investment management agreements. These 
objectives being medium-long term in nature 
mean that the investment managers position their 
portfolios accordingly.  
• The Group Trustees monitor the investment 
managers’ engagement and voting activity on an 
annual basis as part of the annual investment 
meeting. By doing this, it indirectly incentivises 
the investment managers to make decisions 
based on non-financial information.  
How the method (and time 
horizon) of the evaluation of 
investment managers’ 
performance and the 
remuneration for their 
services are in line with the 
Group Trustees’ policies. 
• The Group Trustees review the performance of 
the Group’s investments on a net of cost basis to 
ensure a true measurement of performance 
versus investment objectives. 
• The Group Trustees evaluate performance over 
the time period stated in the investment 
managers’ performance objective, which is 
typically 3 to 5 years. 
• Quarterly investment performance reports are 
produced documenting the performance of each 
of the Group’s investment managers.  
• Investment manager fees are reviewed 
periodically to make sure that they remain 
competitive. 
The method for monitoring 
portfolio turnover costs 
incurred by investment 
managers and how they define 
and monitor targeted 
portfolio turnover or turnover 
range. 
• The investment managers are incentivised to 
minimise costs as they are measured on a net of 
cost basis. 
• The Group Trustees monitor portfolio turnover 
costs indirectly as part of its ongoing monitoring 
of the Group’s assets and investment managers. 
• Where relevant, portfolio turnover costs are 
considered periodically, particularly for the 
Cardano mandate which is expected to be more 
active in its asset allocation and hence 
experience higher turnover over time. The 
mandate also represents a sizeable proportion of 
overall Group assets (37% target allocation) 
whereby excessive turnover can have a 
reasonable impact on the overall Group asset 
return.  
The duration of the Group’s 
arrangements with the 
investment managers. 
• The Group Trustees are aware of the duration of 
the Group’s arrangements with each of its 
investment managers (e.g. as part of ongoing 
monitoring). Ultimately, however, the duration 
of each arrangement is determined by its 
suitability and contribution to meeting the 
Group’s overall investment objectives. 
• It is also considered in the context of the type of 
fund the Group invests in.  
o For open ended funds, the duration is 
flexible, and the Group Trustees will 
from time-to-time consider the 
appropriateness of these investments and 
whether they should continue to be held. 
o For closed ended funds, or funds with a 
lock-in period, the Group Trustees ensure 
the timeframe of the investment or lock-
in is in line with the Group Trustee’s 
objectives and the Group’s liquidity 
requirements. 
 
