Drax 2019 Defined Benefit Pension Scheme 
Statement of Investment Principles 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Statement of Investment Principles 
Drax 2019 Defined Benefit Pension Scheme 
September 2020 
Drax 2019 Defined Benefit Pension Scheme 
Statement of Investment Principles 
2 
 
 
1. INTRODUCTION 
This document constitutes the Statement of Investment Principles (the 'SIP') 
required under Section 35 of the Pensions Act 1995 (the 'Act') for the Drax 
Corporate Limited Pension Scheme (the `Scheme'). It describes the investment 
policy, guidelines and procedures being pursued by the Trustees of the Scheme. 
This SIP has also been prepared to reflect the requirements of The Occupational 
Pension Schemes (Investment) Regulations 2005. 
In accordance with the Act, the Trustees confirm that, before preparing the SIP, it 
has obtained and considered written advice from its appointed Investment 
Adviser, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (“PwC”) and has consulted with Drax 
Corporate Limited (the statutory sponsor of the Scheme). 
The Trustees believe PwC to be qualified by its ability and practical experience of 
financial matters and to have appropriate knowledge and experience of the 
investment arrangements that the Scheme requires. 
The Trustees are responsible for the investment of the Scheme's assets and 
arranging the administration of the Scheme. Where the Trustees are required to 
make an investment decision, the Trustees first receive and consider advice from 
PwC, to ensure that it has fully considered the implications of the decision(s) 
being taken. 
In accordance with the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (`FSMA'), the 
Trustees are responsible for setting a general investment policy, but has 
delegated the day-to-day investment of the Scheme's assets to the Investment 
Manager. 
The Investment Manager listed in Appendix A is authorised and regulated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (`FSA') and provides the expertise necessary to 
manage the investments of the Scheme. 
Declaration 
The Trustees confirm that this SIP reflects the investment strategy for the 
Scheme. The Trustees acknowledge that it is their responsibility, with guidance 
from their Investment Adviser, to ensure the assets of the Scheme are invested in 
accordance with these principles. 
 
 
 
Drax 2019 Defined Benefit Pension Scheme 
Statement of Investment Principles 
3 
 
 
 
 
2. SCHEME GOVERNANCE 
The Trustees are responsible for the governance and investment of the Scheme's 
assets. In addition, the Joint Governance Group (“JGG”) will assist with the 
Governance of the Scheme. 
The remit of the JGG covers: 
● Understanding and quantifying the main investment risks; 
● Producing a plan for implementing agreed ideas; 
● Establishing monitoring, reporting and intervention as the performance of 
the strategy is realised; 
● Establishing future working arrangements for the identification, 
assessment and implementation of new opportunities; 
● Documenting the vision and strategy; and 
● Establishing a governance control framework that protects members’ 
benefits. 
The JGG will meet at least quarterly with where necessary monthly calls between 
meetings. Membership of the JGG will comprise: 
● The Trustees; 
● A dedicated representation from the Company; 
● The Trustees’ appointed investment adviser; 
● The Company’s appointed investment adviser. 
The Trustees consider the governance structure set out in this SIP to be 
appropriate for the Scheme as it allows the Trustees to make the important 
decisions on investment policy, whilst delegating the day-to-day aspects of 
investment management to the Investment Manager as and where appropriate. 
The responsibilities of each of the parties involved in the Scheme's governance 
are detailed in Appendix B. 
Drax 2019 Defined Benefit Pension Scheme 
Statement of Investment Principles 
4 
 
 
3. INVESTMENT OBJECTIVES 
The overall objective of the Trustees is to meet the benefit payments promised to 
members as they fall due. 
The Trustees and Company have agreed a number of key long-term objectives 
which are set out in more detail in the Journey Plan but include: 
1. Ensuring that all benefits due to members under the rules of the 
Scheme can be paid and that there is clear communication on the level 
of security provided by the Company; 
2. Achieving the necessary expected return and risk targets; 
3. Reaching a fully funded scheme on a prudent self-sufficiency basis over 
the next decade. 
4. Ensuring the investment strategy remains appropriate to achieve the 
agreed funding objectives within the agreed timescales, with a level of 
risk that is acceptable to both the Trustees and Company; 
5. Ensuring the suitability of the investments and ESG policies following 
the result of each actuarial valuation, investment review, or as 
required by legislation, in consultation with the advisers; 
6. Maintaining accurate Scheme records and good governance. 
The Trustees aim to meet the long-term objectives via the following measures: 
● Ensuring the strategic asset allocation for the Scheme considers the 
liability profile and the Statutory Funding Objective; 
● Monitoring the Investment Manager to ensure that they comply with the 
investment guidelines set for them and that there is a reasonable 
expectation that they can meet their performance objectives going 
forward; and 
● Working with the JGG to consider opportunities to either reduce risk or 
enhance the return through the implementation of medium-term tactical 
asset allocation decisions. 
Drax 2019 Defined Benefit Pension Scheme 
Statement of Investment Principles 
5 
 
 
4. INVESTMENT STRATEGY 
 
4.1 General Policies 
The Trustees are in the process of reviewing new investment strategies, including 
a liability matching investment strategy in the form of interest rate swaptions. The 
Scheme assets consist of the proceeds of the bulk transfer from the Scottish 
Power Pension Scheme. The bulk transfer was settled in May 2020. 
4.2 Asset Allocation 
The Trustees’ approach to asset allocation is to allocate 100% of Scheme’s assets 
into a short-duration gilt fund on a temporary basis. Details of the asset allocation 
as at the date of this SIP are set out at Appendix C. 
4.3 Return Objective 
A return on investments is required which, over the long term, is expected to be 
consistent with the Trustees’ goal of meeting the Statutory Funding Objective. 
Given the nature of the temporary investment being made, the long-term 
expected return is in line with short duration gilts. It is not expected that the 
Trustees will hold the short-duration gilt fund in isolation for a period of over six 
months. 
Drax 2019 Defined Benefit Pension Scheme 
Statement of Investment Principles 
6 
 
 
5. STRATEGY IMPLEMENTATION 
The investment is managed by one external investment manager. The investment 
manager is Legal & General Investment Management (“Legal & General”). More 
details are set out in Appendix B. 
5.1 Mandates and Performance Targets 
The Trustees have received advice on the appropriateness of the investment 
manager, benchmark and risk tolerances from the Investment Adviser and 
believes the investment to be suitable on a temporary basis to meet the Scheme's 
investment objectives. 
5.2 Suitability 
The Trustees have taken advice from the Scheme's Investment Adviser to ensure 
that the assets held by the Scheme and the proposed strategy is suitable given its 
liability profile, the Trustees’ objectives, regulatory guidance and specifications in 
the Trust Deed. The Trustees recognise that the investment does not have 
suitable liability matching properties and is not expected to generate excess 
return relative to the gilt market to meet the liabilities of the Scheme. Therefore, 
the investment is made on a temporary basis whilst the strategic asset allocation 
is considered. 
Drax 2019 Defined Benefit Pension Scheme 
Statement of Investment Principles 
7 
 
 
6. MONITORING 
6.1 Investment Management 
 Trustees: 
The Trustees will monitor the performance of the Investment Manager against the 
agreed benchmark. 
The Trustees, in conjunction with advice from their investment advisor, will 
regularly review the activities of the Investment Manager to ensure they continue 
to perform in a competent manner and have the appropriate knowledge and 
experience to manage the assets of the Scheme. 
 Investment Adviser: 
The Trustees have appointed PwC to provide periodic reporting on the 
performance of the Scheme’s assets, and any developments with the underlying 
investment manager which could have an adverse impact on future returns and 
other ongoing strategy and implementation advice as is required. 
 Investment Manager: 
Relationship with investment manager  
The Trustees have investment management agreements in place with the 
investment manager, which set out the contractual relationship between the 
parties and govern key aspects, such as how the Trustees remunerate the 
investment manager, how the Trustees monitor the performance of the 
investment manager, the inception of the arrangements with the investment 
manager, and exit terms.  
Incentivising investment managers  
The Trustees will monitor the performance of the Scheme’s investment manager 
against their agreed objectives, ESG policies and the financial requirements of 
the Scheme as a whole. The Trustees regularly review the activities of the 
investment manager and assess their ability to:  
 Perform their functions competently  
 Have appropriate knowledge and experience to manage the 
assets of the Scheme  
 Have considered the need for diversification and sufficient 
liquidity  
 Have considered the suitability of each investment according to 
their stated objectives (including ESG)  
Where an investment manager consistently fails to meet benchmark 
performance and shows lack of alignment with the Scheme’s objectives, the 
Drax 2019 Defined Benefit Pension Scheme 
Statement of Investment Principles 
8 
 
 
Trustees may consider ending their relationship with the investment manager. 
This, along with the fees paid to investment manager, forms the incentivisation 
to managers to meet the requirements of the investment mandates.  
Conflicts of interest  
It is the responsibility of the investment manager to report internal conflicts of 
interest. Managers may for example separate their debt and equity teams and 
constrain themselves not to buy securities of their firm. However, there may be 
circumstances where the manager cannot fully align their strategy and decisions 
to the (potentially conflicting) policies of all their pooled fund investors.  
Assessing medium to long-term performance of investments  
The Trustees monitor how the investment manager makes decisions based on 
the medium to long-term financial and non-financial performance of investee 
companies. Where the Trustees have concerns they will raise this with the 
investment manager.  
Monitoring performance and remuneration  
The Trustees monitor the performance of their investment manager on a 
quarterly basis.  
When assessing the performance of an investment manager, the Trustees 
consider:  
• The investment manager’s financial performance against stated benchmarks 
and the rest of the market, both in terms of individual performance and their 
wider role in helping the Scheme meet its long-term objectives.  
• Qualitative factors such as the service provided by the investment manager, 
including the quality of reporting.  
Where the Trustees believe that an investment manager has performed poorly 
for a material period, they will carry out a formal review and look to replace the 
manager where necessary. 
Monitoring portfolio turnover and costs  
The Trustees will ensure that fees paid to the investment manager are 
consistent with the levels typically available in the industry and the nature of 
services provided.  
The Trustees recognise that portfolio turnover and associated transaction costs 
are a necessary part of investment management and that the impact of portfolio 
turnover costs is reflected in performance figures provided by the investment 
manager.  
The Trustees do not believe in setting a portfolio turnover target – being the 
frequency with which assets are expected to be bought and sold – because they 
Drax 2019 Defined Benefit Pension Scheme 
Statement of Investment Principles 
9 
 
 
believe that the investment manager has sufficient expertise to make judgement 
on the appropriate portfolio turnover. Some portfolio turnover is also inevitable 
as part of rebalancing processes in say index-tracking funds within actively 
managed mandates.  
The Trustee monitors the costs incurred by the investment manager in buying 
and selling investments. The investment manager incorporates portfolio 
turnover and resulting transaction costs as appropriate in their reporting.  
Duration of arrangements with Investment Managers  
The duration of the Trustee’s arrangements with investment managers will vary 
depending on the investment strategy and asset allocation of the relevant 
portfolio. 
Appendix C provides a breakdown of investment manager fee and further 
information on the arrangements with the manager. These fees are based on a 
fixed annual management charge and/or a fee based on the size of the assets 
managed unless stated. 
The investment manager will: 
1. Select securities and undertake transactions in specific investments within 
each asset class to achieve the stated objective. 
2. Provide the Trustees with sufficient information periodically to facilitate the 
review of its activities, including: 
a. A report of the strategy followed during the quarter 
b. The rationale behind past and future strategy 
c. A full valuation of the assets and performance summary 
d. A transaction report and cash reconciliation. 
e. How ESG factors have been incorporated into investment decisions i.e. 
evidence the manager is adhering to their stated ESG policies. 
3. Informing the Trustees immediately of: 
a. Any changes to the management of the underlying investment strategy  
b. Any serious breach of internal operation procedures  
c. Any material change in the knowledge and experience of those involved in 
managing the Scheme’s investments, including changes to key investment 
personnel  
d. Any breach of investment restrictions agreed within the stated client 
service agreement or fund prospectus.  
 
Drax 2019 Defined Benefit Pension Scheme 
Statement of Investment Principles 
10 
 
 
 
6.2 Statement of Investment Principles (SIP) 
The Trustees will review this SIP on a regular basis or following any changes to 
the investment strategy and modify it after consultation with the Investment 
Adviser and the Principal Employer. There will be no obligation to change this SIP 
or any adviser relationship as part of such a regular review. Following any 
changes to the investment strategy this SIP will require updating to reflect the 
revised investment strategy. 
6.3 Trustees 
The Trustees maintain a record of all decisions taken, together with the rationale 
in each case. 
Drax 2019 Defined Benefit Pension Scheme 
Statement of Investment Principles 
11 
 
 
7. RISKS 
The Trustees recognise that there are a number of risks involved with the current 
investment strategy. 
The Trustees will monitor and review the Investment Manager’s performance on a 
regular basis. The responsibilities of the Trustees, Investment Adviser and 
Scheme Actuary are set out in Appendix B. 
The Trustees recognise that the following are some of the risks involved in the 
investment of assets of the Scheme: 
● Cashflow risk 
The risk of a shortfall of liquid assets relative to the immediate liabilities. The 
Trustees and its adviser will manage the Scheme's cash flows, taking into 
account the timing of future payments. 
● Financial mismatching risk 
The risk of a significant difference in the sensitivity of asset and liability values to 
changes in financial factors, in particular long-term inflation expectations and 
long-term interest rates. The Trustees will mitigate these risks by monitoring the 
key characteristics and setting appropriate hedging strategies. 
● Demographic risk 
Demographic factors include the uncertainty surrounding mortality projections 
such as future improvements in mortality experience. The Trustees recognise that 
there is currently no readily-tradable instrument to hedge this type of risk and that 
this risk may not be fully mitigated. The Trustees will measure liabilities using 
mortality assumptions recommended by the Scheme Actuary. 
● Manager risk 
The failure by the Investment Manager to achieve the rate of investment return 
assumed by the Trustees. This issue has been considered by the Trustees on the 
initial appointment of the Investment Manager and thereafter will be considered 
as part of the investment review procedures the Trustees put in place. 
● Concentration risk 
The risk that the performance of any single asset class or single investment that 
constituted a significant proportion of the assets would disproportionately 
influence the Trustees’ ability to meet the objectives. The Trustees in due course 
will modify their investment strategy to seek the outperformance required to meet 
future liability payments, and will ,therefore, look to diversify the investment 
strategy. 
● Transition risk 
Drax 2019 Defined Benefit Pension Scheme 
Statement of Investment Principles 
12 
 
 
The risk of incurring inappropriate costs in relation to the transition of assets. The 
Trustees will mitigate this risk by using its Investment Advisor to help it implement 
transitions of assets effectively and efficiently. 
● Custody risk 
The Scheme’s assets are invested in a pooled fund, with limited control or 
oversight of the custody arrangements for the underlying investment. The 
Trustees expect the investment manager to monitor the custody arrangement for 
the pooled fund it invests in. From time to time, the Trustees will seek 
confirmation from the investment manager that they are undertaking an 
appropriate level of monitoring of the custodial arrangement. 
● ESG risk 
Investment managers are expected to manage portfolios that adhere to stated policies 
concerning the suitability of any investments based on a consideration of ESG factors. 
The Trustees monitor manager adherence to these stated policies to ensure they remain 
aligned with those of the pension scheme.  
The Trustees will keep these risks under regular review. 
Drax 2019 Defined Benefit Pension Scheme 
Statement of Investment Principles 
13 
 
 
8. ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE CONSIDERATIONS 
The Trustees take into account financially material considerations, including those 
arising from Environmental, Social and Governance (‘ESG’) factors, through the 
selection and ongoing monitoring of the investment manager employed to 
manage Scheme assets. 
 
The Trustees have delegated overall stewardship of the Scheme’s underlying 
investments to the investment manager, including the exercise of the rights 
(including voting rights) attaching to the Scheme’s investments and 
engagement with investee companies on their performance, strategy, capital 
structure, management of actual or potential conflicts of interest, and social, 
environmental and corporate governance risks. The Trustees may also as part 
of the asset allocation process, select investment managers to invest 
specifically in corporate debt or equity, or give diversified mandates where 
managers are able to invest in both debt and equity or investee companies. . 
 
The Trustees will review the managers’ stewardship policies and voting 
behaviours periodically to check that they are consistent with delivering an 
appropriate level of long term return for the Scheme. 
 
 
These arrangements are periodically reviewed and the ESG activities of the 
manager are considered where the Trustees see fit. The Trustees, with help from 
their investment adviser, will seek to engage with the manager relating to their 
ESG policies and approach. 
 
Where the Trustees do not believe a manager’s approach to ESG matters is 
consistent with their goals to deliver an appropriate level of long-term returns for 
the Scheme and the manager has failed to respond to efforts to engage them, the 
Trustees may seek to switch the manager with a suitable replacement. 
 
Currently the Trustees do not take into account non-financial matters such as 
member views. However, the Trustees may take such matters into account 
where they believe it would be prudent to do so. Where the Trustees do take into 
account non-financial matters, they will inform the Scheme’s employer of their 
decision to do so, the nature of the non-financial matters taken into account and 
provide any other information which they feel is appropriate in respect of such a 
decision. 
Drax 2019 Defined Benefit Pension Scheme 
Statement of Investment Principles 
14 
 
 
9. OTHER MATTERS 
9.1 Statutory Funding Objective 
The Trustees will obtain and consider proper advice on the question of whether 
the investments and investment strategy are satisfactory having regard to both 
the investment objectives and the requirements to meet the Statutory Funding 
Objective. The funding position is reviewed periodically by the Scheme Actuary, 
with a full actuarial valuation at least every three years. 
The Trustees will consider with the Investment Adviser and the Scheme Actuary 
whether the results of these actuarial valuations suggest that any change to 
investment strategy is necessary to ensure continued compliance with the 
Statutory Funding Objective. 
9.2 Corporate Governance 
The Scheme's investments are implemented via pooled investment funds, in 
which the Scheme's investments are pooled with those of other investors. As 
such, direct control of the process of engaging with the companies that issue 
these securities, whether for corporate governance purposes, social, ethical or 
environmental factors, is delegated to the investment manager of each pooled 
investment fund. As such, the Trustees do not have a formal corporate 
governance policy. However, the extent to which these factors are taken into 
account in the selection, retention and realisation of investments is considered by 
the Trustees and their Investment Adviser as part of the process of selecting 
investment managers and specific funds in which to invest. 
9.3 Realisation of Assets 
The assets are held in a pooled fund, which can be realised easily if the Trustees 
so requires. 
Where it is necessary to make payments out from the Scheme, in the first 
instance payments will be taken from any residual cash holding within the 
portfolio. Where there is insufficient residual cash, cash will be raised by the sale 
of investments of the Scheme. The policy for meeting cash realisation will be 
reviewed on a regular basis by the Trustees. 
9.4 Custody 
Details of the custodians used by the Investment Manager who provides services 
to the Scheme are set out in the agreement between the Investment Manager 
and the Trustees. 
9.5 Conflicts of Interest 
The Trustees will ensure that any conflicts of interest are managed at all times in 
the best interests of the Scheme. 
Drax 2019 Defined Benefit Pension Scheme 
Statement of Investment Principles 
15 
 
 
 Appendix A – Details of Scheme Advisors 
 
 Scheme Actuary: 
Aon 
 
 Investment Adviser: 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (“PwC”) 
 
 Investment Manager: 
   Legal & General Investment Management (“LGIM”) 
Drax 2019 Defined Benefit Pension Scheme 
Statement of Investment Principles 
16 
 
 
Appendix B – Responsibilities of each Party Involved in the Scheme 
 Investment Advisor 
The Investment Advisor will be responsible for, amongst other things: 
● Monitoring the performance of the Investment Manager relative to their 
respective benchmarks and targets as well as the asset mix versus the agreed 
asset allocation; 
● Reporting to the Trustees on the performance of the Investment Manager and 
the Scheme as a whole, highlighting any developments within each 
organisation that could impact future performance; 
● Undertaking reviews of the Scheme’s investment arrangements including 
review of the asset allocation policy, ESG policy, the current investment 
managers, and advice on the selection of new managers, as appropriate.  
● Assisting the Trustees with the annual review and update of this Statement; 
● Periodically reviewing the overall investment strategy to ensure that it remains 
appropriate to meet the Scheme’s long term funding objective; 
● Keeping the Trustees notified of any developments within investment markets 
or legislation that may be of interest/relevance to the Scheme. 
 Scheme Actuary 
The Scheme Actuary will be responsible for, amongst other things: 
● Performing the triennial (or more frequently as required) valuations and 
advising on the appropriate contribution levels. 
● Commenting on the appropriateness of the investment strategy relative to the 
liabilities of the Scheme at the triennial valuation. 
● Advising the Trustees and the Investment Advisor of any changes to 
contribution levels and funding level. 
● Proper accounting, preparation of the annual report, administration of the 
annual audit and other financial reporting as required. 
Drax 2019 Defined Benefit Pension Scheme 
Statement of Investment Principles 
17 
 
 
 Appendix C – Investment Strategy Asset Allocation 
The temporary asset allocation of the Scheme is set out below. 
The investment objective for the portfolio is to ensure high liquidity of the underlying 
fund. The long-term expected return is in line with short duration gilts. 
The investment was made in May 2020. 
Fee: 
0.100% p.a. of the first £5m, plus  
0.075% p.a. of the next £5m, plus  
0.050% p.a. of the next £20m, plus 
0.030% p.a. of the balance above £30m. 
The benchmark for the Scheme is given in the table below: 
 
 
Asset Class 
Investment 
Manager 
Fund 
Target 
Allocation (%) 
Benchmark 
 
Short-duration 
gilts 
Legal & General 
Investment 
Management 
 
0-5 year Gilts Index Fund 
 
100 
FTSE Actuaries 
UK Conventional 
Gilts up to 5 
Years Index 
 
