 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
The Progress Power  
(Gas Fired Power Station) Order 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons     
 
Planning Act 2008 
The Infrastructure Planning (Applications: Prescribed Forms and Procedure) Regulations 2009 
 
PINS Reference Number:  
 
EN010060 
Document Reference: 
 
 
4.1 
Regulation Number: 
 
 
r5(2)(h) 
Author:  
 
 
 
Pinsent Masons LLP 
 
Revision  
Date 
 
 
Description 
 
 
0 
 
March 2014 
 
Submission version 
1 
 
July 2014 
 
Examination version 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
1 
CONTENTS   
GLOSSARY  
1 
SUMMARY 
5 
2 
INTRODUCTION 
17 
3 
POWERS OF COMPULSORY PURCHASE UNDER THE PLANNING ACT 
2008 
20 
4 
SCHEME DETAILS 
22 
5 
LOCATION AND DESCRIPTION OF THE ORDER LAND 
24 
6 
NEED FOR THE COMPULSORY ACQUISITION OF LAND AND RIGHTS 
35 
7 
JUSTIFICATION FOR THE USE OF 
POWERS OF COMPULSORY 
ACQUISITION 
101 
8 
SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS 
113 
9 
HUMAN RIGHTS 
115 
10 
FURTHER INFORMATION 
117 
11 
CONCLUSIONS 
118 
SCHEDULE 1 - LIST OF APPLICATION DOCUMENTS 
120 
 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
2 
GLOSSARY  
A140 Junction: means the new junction from the A140 (Work No. 7 in the draft 
Order); 
A140 Junction Site: means the site of the A140 Junction (shown as Work No. 
7 on the Works Plans); 
Above Ground Installation (AGI): means the above ground installation 
incorporating the minimum offtake and the PIG trap launching facility (Work No. 
3A in the draft Order) together with a new site vehicular access (Work No. 3B in 
the draft Order); 
Access Road: means the access road from the A140 Junction to the Electrical 
Connection Compound following the Electrical Connection Route Corridor  
(Work No. 7 in the draft Order); 
Access Road Route: means the route of the Access Road (shown as Work 
No. 7 on the Works Plans); 
Act: means the Planning Act 2008; 
AGI Site: means the site of the AGI (shown as Work No. 3A and Work No. 3B 
on the Works Plans); 
APFP 
Regulations: 
means 
the 
Infrastructure 
Planning 
(Applications: 
Prescribed Forms and Procedure) Regulations 2009; 
Application: means the application for a DCO made to the Secretary of State 
under section 37 of the Act in respect of the Project, required pursuant to 
section 31 of the Act because the Project constitutes a Nationally Significant 
Infrastructure Project under section 14(1)(a) and section 15 of the Act by virtue 
of being an onshore generating station in England or Wales of 50 MWe capacity 
or more; 
Cable: means the cable circuit connecting the Electrical Connection Compound 
and the Power Generation Plant (Work No. 6 in the draft Order);   
CEMP: means a Construction Environmental Management Plan;  
DCO: means a development consent order made by the Secretary of State 
pursuant to the Act to authorise a nationally significant infrastructure project; 
Developer: means PPL; 
Electrical Connection: means the Cable, the Electrical Connection 
Compound, the Access Road and the A140 Junction;  
Electrical Connection Compound: means the substation and the sealing end 
compound (Work No. 5 in the draft Order);  
Electrical Connection Compound Site: means the site of the Electrical 
Connection Compound (shown as Work No. 5 on the Works Plans);  
Electrical Connection Route Corridor: means the corridor in which the Cable 
is to be located (shown as Work No. 6 on the Works Plans); 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
3 
Electrical Connection Site: means the site of the Electrical Connection (shown 
as Works No. 5, 6 and 7 on the Works Plans); 
Gas Connection: means the Pipeline and the AGI; 
Gas Connection Route Corridor: means the corridor in which the Pipeline is 
located (shown as Work No. 4 on the Works Plans); 
Gas Connection Site: means the site of the Gas Connection (shown as Works 
No. 3A, 3B and 4 on the Works Plans); 
Guidance: means the Department of Communities and Local Government 
guidance, 'Planning Act 2008: Guidance related to procedures for the 
compulsory acquisition of land' (September 2013); 
Land Plans: means the plans showing the land which is to be the subject of 
compulsory acquisition and submitted with the Application at Document 
Reference 2.6; 
MOC: means a minimum offtake connection; 
MSDC: Mid Suffolk District Council;  
MWe: means Megawatts electrical; 
NGET: means National Grid Electricity Transmission plc; 
NPS EN-1: means the Overarching National Policy Statement for Energy (EN-
1);  
NPS EN-2: means the National Policy Statement for Fossil Fuel Electricity 
Generating Infrastructure (EN-2);  
NPS EN-4: means the National Policy Statement for Gas Supply Infrastructure 
and Gas and Oil Pipelines (EN-4);   
NPS EN-5: means the National Policy Statement for Electricity Networks 
Infrastructure (EN-5);  
NTS: means National Gas Transmission System; 
Order: means The Progress Power (Gas Fired Power Station) Order, being the 
development consent order made by the Secretary of State authorising the 
Project, a draft of which is submitted with the Application at Document 
Reference 3.1;  
Order Land: means the land shown on the Land Plans which is within the 
Order Limits and which is to be the subject of compulsory acquisition; 
Order Limits: means the limits shown on the Works Plans within which the 
Project may be carried out; 
PIG: means Pipeline Inspection Gauge; 
Pipeline: means the gas pipeline (Work No. 4 in the draft Order); 
Power Generation Plant: means a SCGT gas fired „peaking‟ power generating 
plant capable of providing up to 299 MWe together with the maintenance area 
(Works No. 1 and 2 in the draft Order); 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
4 
Power Generation Plant Site: means the site of the Power Generation Plant 
(shown as Works No. 1A, 1B, 1C, 1D and 2 on the Works Plans);  
PPL: a special purpose vehicle which has been set up to develop the proposed 
Project and has been established by WPL;  
Project: means the Power Generation Plant, Electrical Connection and Gas 
Connection located on the Project Site; 
Project Site: means the entire area covered by the Project corresponding to 
the Order Limits of the draft Order;  
SCGT: means simple cycle gas turbine;  
Works Plans: means the plans showing the Work Nos. referred to in the draft 
Order and submitted with the Application at Document Reference 2.7; and 
WPL: means Watt Power Limited, established to develop flexible gas fired 
generation assets to support the UK Government drive to a low carbon 
economy.      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
5 
1. 
SUMMARY   
1.1 
This Statement of Reasons relates to the Application by PPL to the 
Secretary of State under the Planning Act 2008 for powers to construct, 
operate and maintain:   
1.1.1 
the Power Generation Plant on land at the former Eye Airfield 
located in Eye, Mid Suffolk;  
1.1.2 
the Pipeline with an Above Ground Installation (together the 
"Gas Connection") to provide fuel to the Power Generation 
Plant;  
1.1.3 
the Cable connecting the Electrical Connection Compound and 
the Power Generation Plant; and  
1.1.4 
the Electrical Connection Compound, comprising the substation 
and sealing end compound;  
1.2 
The Application also seeks consent for the Access Road and the A140 
Junction works.   
1.3 
In this Statement, the term "Electrical Connection" encompasses the 
Cable, the Electrical Connection Compound, the Access Road and the 
A140 Junction.    
1.4 
The Power Generation Plant, the Gas Connection and the Electrical 
Connection are together described in this Statement as the "Project". 
1.5 
This Statement explains why it is necessary, proportionate and 
justifiable for the Application to contain compulsory acquisition powers, 
and why there is a compelling case in the public interest for PPL to be 
granted these powers.   
1.6 
The matters addressed in this Statement are summarised in this 
section.  References to numbered sections or paragraphs are to 
sections or paragraphs of this Statement.  
Powers of Compulsory Purchase under the Planning Act 2008 
(Section 3) 
1.7 
Section 120 of the Act provides that an order granting development 
consent may make provision relating to, or to matters ancillary to, the 
development for which consent is granted.  Schedule 5 to the Act lists 
the matters ancillary to the development, which includes the acquisition 
of land, compulsorily or by agreement, and the creation, suspension or 
extinguishment of, or interference with, interests in or rights over land, 
compulsorily or by agreement.  
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
6 
1.8 
Section 122 of the Act provides that an order granting development 
consent may include provision authorising the compulsory acquisition of 
land only if the Secretary of State, in respect of the Application, is 
satisfied that (of relevance to the Project) the land is required for the 
development to which the DCO relates and the land is required to 
facilitate or is incidental to that development.   
1.9 
Further, it is also necessary for the Secretary of State to be satisfied, in 
relation to the Application, that there is a compelling case in the public 
interest for the inclusion of powers of compulsory acquisition in the 
Order.   
Scheme Details (Section 4)   
1.10 
PPL is seeking to develop a gas fired power station, together with the 
integral Gas Connection and Cable, at the former Eye Airfield located in 
Eye, Mid Suffolk.   
1.11 
The Power Generation Plant would be a SCGT gas fired „peaking‟ 
power generating plant. To generate up to 299 MWe, between 1 and 5 
Gas Turbine Generators would be used, either each with its own 
emission flue stack or one stack for a pair of turbines, each stack to be 
between 25m and 30m in height.  The location of the Power Generation 
Plant is shown on the Power Generation Plant Land Plan (Sheet 1, 
Document Reference 2.6) and the various components that comprise 
the Power Generation Plant are shown on Figure 2 of the Works Plans 
(Document Reference 2.7).   
1.12 
To function, the Power Generation Plant requires an electrical 
connection.  The integral Cable, being an approximate length of 1.6km, 
would connect the Power Generation Plant to the Electrical Connection 
Compound.   
1.13 
The Electrical Connection Compound would consist of a substation and 
a sealing end compound on agricultural land to the south of „The Leys‟, 
north of Mellis Road.  The sealing end compound would be 
approximately 45m X 22m located on the west side of the existing 
overhead line. The substation would be located on the east side of the 
existing overhead line.  A substation can either be an air insulated 
substation (AIS) or a gas insulated substation (GIS).  PPL considers 
that the substation with AIS technology is appropriate and acceptable in 
the location of the Electrical Connection Compound. The substation 
with AIS technology would be 150 m X 150 m.  In the event that it is 
considered that the substation should be of a GIS design, then the 
substation would be 80m x 100 m.  Both technology choices would be 
sited within the parameters of Work No. 5 (see Schedule 1 to the draft 
Order and Sheet 2 of 2 of Figure 1, Works Plan (Document References 
3.1 and 2.7 respectively).     
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
7 
1.14 
Permanent access to both the Cable and the Electrical Connection 
Compound would be required for construction and subsequent 
maintenance of the Electrical Connection Compound. This would be 
provided via a new permanent Access Road to be constructed along 
the route of the Cable between the A140 and the Electrical Connection 
Compound. The A140 Junction would comprise a new three way 
highway junction (T-Junction) with „Give Way‟ signals onto the A140.  
The track itself would be a single lane surfaced road with passing 
places. The Access Road and the A140 Junction are shown on Sheets 
1 and 2 of Figure 1, Works Plans (Document Reference 2.7) as Work 
No. 7.     
1.15 
A key part of the Power Generation Plant is its fuel.  The Gas 
Connection would be a new underground gas pipeline, approximately 
1.7km in length, to bring natural gas to the Power Generation Plant from 
the existing high pressure gas NTS located off Potash Lane (shown on 
Sheet 1 of Figure 1, Works Plans (Document Reference 2.7) as Work 
Nos. 3 and 4.     
1.16 
The proposed Power Generation Plant, Gas Connection and Electrical 
Connection are referred to as the Project.  The Project comprises works 
that are classed as the nationally significant infrastructure project and 
works that are classed as associated development under the Act.  
1.17 
The Power Generation Plant, Gas Connection and Cable constitute the 
nationally significant infrastructure project elements of the Project.   
1.18 
The Electrical Connection Compound, Access Road and the A140 
Junction constitute the associated development elements of the Project.  
Location and Description of the Order Land (Section 5)       
1.19 
The Power Generation Plant Site is located on land at the former Eye 
Airfield located in Eye, Mid Suffolk. The entire Project lies within the 
administrative boundaries of: 
(a) 
in respect of the lower-tier district council, Mid Suffolk District 
Council; and  
(b) 
in respect of the upper-tier county council, Suffolk County 
Council.  
1.20 
The Order Limits covers an area of approximately 28.96ha.    
1.21 
The area required by the Power Generation Plant extends to 8.67ha 
and is part of agricultural land forming part of White House Farm and is 
located within the former Eye Airfield.   
1.22 
The Gas Connection would extend to 8.23ha in total (part of the Gas 
Connection is included within the Power Generation Plant Site).  The 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
8 
Gas Connection Route Corridor would begin at the MOC within the AGI 
located to the south of the airfield, north of Castleton Way and east of 
Potash Lane.  The Gas Connection Route Corridor would cross Potash 
Lane heading west and around the perimeter of the agricultural field.  
To the north of White House Farm, the Gas Connection Route Corridor 
traverses east, south of the Speed Deck Factory, then turning north up 
Potash Lane before crossing the runway and continuing north into the 
south west corner of the Power Generation Plant Site.      
1.23 
The Electrical Connection comprises the Cable, which would extend to 
5.89ha (part of the Cable is included in the Power Generation Plant 
Site). The Cable would exit the south western edge of the Power 
Generation Plant Site and head south down Potash Lane (the former 
Eye Airfield main runway) before turning west, to the south of the Speed 
Deck factory and crossing the northern edge of the agricultural field 
towards the A140. At the A140, the Cable would pass under the A140 
and Old Norwich Road before heading in a westerly direction across the 
agricultural land towards the 400 kV line.  On the west of Old Norwich 
Road, the Cable would cross the agricultural fields in a near perfect 
east – west orientation.  To the west of these fields, the Cable would 
pass under Leys Lane and continue west, running parallel to an existing 
hedge line until it meets the Electrical Connection Compound Site. 
1.24 
The Electrical Connection also comprises the Electrical Connection 
Compound, which would extend to 7.08ha (being the extent of Work 
No. 5 on the Works Plan (Sheet 2 of Figure 1, Document Reference 
2.7) and identified on the Electrical Connection Land Plan (Sheet 4, 
Document Reference 2.6)).    
1.25 
The Electrical Connection also comprises the Access Road and the 
A140 Junction, the location of which is identified on the A140 Junction 
Land Plan (Sheet 5, Document Reference 2.6).     
1.26 
PPL is seeking compulsory purchase powers to secure certain lands, 
new rights and interests within the Order Limits to facilitate the Project.      
1.27 
The land over which compulsory purchase powers are sought in respect 
of the freehold is shown edged red and shaded pink on the Land Plans 
(Sheets 1, 2, 4 and 5, Document Reference 2.6). This land is described 
in more detail, together with the reason for the acquisition, in Table 1, at 
paragraph 6.3.1. Article 17 of the draft Order is relied upon in respect of 
this land.   
1.28 
The land over which rights are being compulsorily sought is shown 
edged red and shaded blue on the Land Plans (Sheets 2, 3, 4 and 5, 
Document Reference 2.6). This land is described in more detail, 
together with the reason for the acquisition of the right, in Table 2, at 
paragraph 6.4.2. Article 20 of the draft Order is relied upon in respect of 
these rights.   
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
9 
1.29 
The land over which temporary use is sought is shown (for ease of 
understanding) edged red and shaded yellow on the Land Plans 
(Sheets 2, 3, 4 and 5, Document Reference 2.6). This land is described 
in more detail, together with the reason for the use being sought, in 
Table 3, at paragraph 6.5.2.  Articles 15, 26 and 27 of the draft Order 
are relied upon in respect of this land and as such, no compulsory 
acquisition of rights is sought.        
1.30 
Pursuant to Article 21 of the draft Order: 
1.30.1 all private rights over land subject to compulsory 
acquisition under the draft Order are to be 
extinguished;  
1.30.2 all private rights over land subject to the compulsory 
acquisition of rights under the draft Order are to be 
suspended and unenforceable or, where so notified 
by PPL, extinguished in so far as in either case their 
continuance would be inconsistent with the exercise 
of that right;  
1.30.3 all private rights over land of which PPL takes 
temporary possession under the draft Order are to 
be suspended and unenforceable for so long as 
PPL remains in possession of the land and so far 
their continuance would be inconsistent with the 
exercise of the temporary possession of that land.   
1.31 
Article 18 of the draft Order is based on Section 237 of the Town and 
Country Planning Act 1990 and gives PPL the authority to carry out or 
use the authorised development and do anything else authorised by the 
draft Order notwithstanding that it involves the interference with an 
interest or right (meaning any easement, liberty, privilege, right or 
advantage annexed to land and adversely affecting other land including 
any natural right to support) or a breach of a restrictive covenant.  In 
this case, the interest, right or restrictive covenant would be overridden.   
1.32 
Table 4, at paragraph 6.6.2, identifies those plots where rights may be 
suspended or extinguished under Article 22 and where interests, rights 
and restrictive covenants may need to be overridden under Article 18, 
together with the reason for such suspension, extinguishment or 
overriding.  
1.33 
The Project will also interfere with the following publically adopted 
highways (PPL is in active discussions with the Highways Authority in 
this regard): 
1.33.1 A140 affected by the Cable and A140 Junction works;  
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
10 
1.33.2 Old Norwich Road affected by the Cable and A140 Junction 
works; and  
1.33.3 Leys Lane affected by the Cable.  
1.34 
PPL is not seeking formal rights of acquisition or new rights over the 
highways but is relying on Articles 8, 9, 10, 11, 25 and 26 of the draft 
Order in relation to street works to enter onto them and to lay and 
maintain apparatus in them, to construct means of access and to create 
temporary prohibitions and restrictions of the use of such streets to 
carry out such works.    Any interference with rights, restrictions etc over 
the Order land arising from the exercise of any articles in the Order 
which provide statutory access to and/or use land within the Order limits 
are captured in Part 3 of the Book of Reference. 
Need for Compulsory Acquisition of Land and Rights (Section 6.2) 
1.35 
PPL has completed an option agreement for that part of the Order 
Limits on which: 
1.35.1 the Power Generation Plant is to be located (Plot 1_MS shown 
on the Power Generation Plant Land Plan, Sheet 1, Document 
Reference 2.6);  
1.35.2 part of the Gas Connection is to be located (Plots 1_GR, 2_GR, 
3_GR and 4_GR shown on the Gas Connection Land Plan, 
Sheet 2, Document Reference 2.6); and  
1.35.3 part of the Electrical Connection Route Corridor is to be located 
(Plots 1_ER, 2_ER, 3_ER and part of 4_ER shown on the 
Electrical Connection Land Plans, Sheet 3, Document 
Reference 2.6).      
However, PPL is including this land within the Order Land in order to 
ensure that certain easements and other private rights identified as 
affecting that land are extinguished so as to facilitate the construction 
and operation of the Project without hindrance (see sections 1.2, 1.3, 
2.2, 2.3, 3.2 and 3.3 of the Book of Reference (Document Reference 
4.3)).  In addition, there may be unknown rights, restrictions, easements 
or servitudes affecting that land which also need to be overridden, 
removed and/or extinguished in order to facilitate the construction and 
operation of the Project without hindrance.      
1.36 
PPL has been seeking to acquire the remaining land, temporary use of 
land and rights (shown edged red and shaded pink, yellow and blue 
respectively on the Gas Connection Land Plan, Electrical Connection 
Land Plans, and the A140 Junction Land Plan (Sheets 2, 3, 4 and 5, 
Document Reference 2.6) by private treaty, in order to ensure 
implementation of the Project. However, it has not yet been possible to 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
11 
acquire all of the land, the temporary use of land and the rights required 
by private treaty.  In addition, PPL requires certain matters to be 
suspended, overridden or extinguished within the Order Land so as to 
ensure there are no impediments to the construction, operation and 
maintenance of the Project. 
1.37 
In the absence of powers of compulsory acquisition, the Order Land 
may not be assembled, uncertainty will continue to prevail and PPL 
considers that its objectives and Government policy objectives would 
not be achieved. 
1.38 
PPL's justification for seeking compulsory purchase powers, in 
accordance with the provisions of the Act, is to secure land, the 
temporary use of land, the rights and other interests required to enable 
PPL to construct, operate and maintain the Project within a reasonable 
commercial timeframe. The inclusion of powers of compulsory 
acquisition in the draft Order is sought in order to ensure that this can 
be achieved.  The land and rights together with the land required for 
temporary use is no more than that is required to facilitate the Project, 
its construction and future maintenance.  The necessary powers, 
together with powers to suspend, override and extinguish rights and 
other interests in or over land, are contained in Part 3 and Part 5 of the 
draft Order which accompanies the Application.  
1.39 
In summary, the draft DCO contains the following powers which may 
constitute an interference with land and/or rights over land and as such 
are captured in Part 3 of the Book of Reference (Document Reference 
4.3):   
1.39.1 Article 8 - Power to alter layout, etc., of streets; 
1.39.2 Article 9 – Street works;  
1.39.3 Article 10 – Construction and maintenance of new or altered 
means of access;  
1.39.4 Article 11 – Temporary prohibition or restriction of use of 
streets;  
1.39.5 Article 12 – Access to works; 
1.39.6 Article 13 – Agreements with street authorities; 
1.39.7 Article 15 – Authority to survey and investigate the land;  
1.39.8 Article 17 – Compulsory acquisition of land;  
1.39.9 Article 18 – Statutory authority to override easements and other 
rights;  
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
12 
1.39.10 Article 20 – Compulsory acquisition of rights;  
1.39.11 Article 21 – Private Rights;  
1.39.12 Article 23 – Acquisition of subsoil;  
1.39.13 Article 24 – Acquisition of part of certain properties;  
1.39.14 Article 25 – Rights under or over streets;  
1.39.15 Article 26 – Temporary use of land for carrying out the 
authorised development; 
1.39.16 Article 27 – Temporary use of land for maintaining the 
authorised development;  
1.39.17 Article 28 – Statutory Undertakers;  
1.39.18 Article 29 – Apparatus and rights of statutory undertakers in 
streets subject to temporary prohibition or restriction; 
1.39.19 Article 30 – Recovery of costs of new connections; 
1.39.20 Article 31 – Felling or lopping of trees. 
Alternatives to Compulsory Acquisition (Section 6.7)   
1.40 
As part of a detailed feasibility assessment, PPL looked at a range of 
sites around the UK to support power generation plants of this nature. 
This search for potential power generation plant sites across the UK 
was focused on areas that were capable of meeting PPL‟s strategic 
project development criteria.  
1.41 
In terms of technical constraints, the size of the site (i.e. large enough to 
support a power generation plant of up to 299 MW and integral 
infrastructure) and the proximity of a site to appropriate gas and 
electrical connection points were both key considerations.  
1.42 
From an environmental perspective, the site must have due regard to 
close sensitive receptors, the current make up of the surrounding area, 
previous site uses and land quality and proximity to sensitive ecological 
habitats.  
1.43 
Based on these factors, the Project Site was considered suitable for the 
siting of the Power Generation Plant.  
1.44 
The Scoping Report prepared by the PPL to scope the contents of the 
Environmental Statement (Appendix 3A to Document Reference 6.2), 
identified seven potential Gas Connection options to connect the Power 
Generation Plant to Feeder 5 on the NTS.   
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
13 
1.45 
Further analysis from additional studies has determined that five of 
these route corridor options were not feasible.   
1.46 
Following consultation, the shortest route was considered favourable 
due to its most direct and therefore less disruptive route.  This option 
was found to be technically unachievable due to its close proximity to 
the gas compressor station.  The preferred option for the Gas 
Connection Route Corridor, therefore, was the option that connects to 
the NTS at the south of the former Eye Airfield.  
1.47 
An Electrical Connection Siting Report undertaken by PPL (Document 
Reference 10.3) considered the potential connection options to the 
National Electricity Transmission System and the local distribution 
system. This found that the area to the west of the A140 between Mellis 
Road and Goswold Hall would be suitable for a new electrical 
connection compound. Two preliminary areas for the siting of the 
Electrical Connection Compound, north (Option 1) and south (Option 2) 
of Goswold Hall, were identified and the Siting Report identified that 
both options present technically feasible options for the siting of the 
Electrical Connection Compound.  
1.48 
In view of the availability of mitigation for landscape and visual impacts, 
and the greater number of potentially adverse effects associated with 
Option 1, and the absence of other differentiating factors, Option 2 was 
taken forward.  The Electrical Connection Siting Report (Document 
Reference 10.3) contains more detail on the assessment undertaken by 
PPL.     
Justification for the Use of Powers of Compulsory Acquisition 
(Section 7)   
1.49 
The urgent need for electricity generation, including gas fired generating  
stations and unabated flexible gas and peaking plants, is provided in 
NPS EN-1, the Gas Generation Strategy (DECC, 2012) and the 
National Infrastructure Plan (HM Treasury, 2013). The Project would 
contribute materially to meeting this need. 
1.50 
Due regard has been paid to all relevant and important considerations. 
These include the findings of community and statutory consultation 
processes which, as documented in the Consultation Report (Document 
Reference 5.1), have influenced considerations as to the design and 
siting of the various components of the Project. Local economic 
development and environmental policy designations have been 
considered in the design, siting and mitigation proposals within the 
Project.   
1.51 
The Project is in line with the relevant National Policy Statements, being 
NPS EN-1, NPS EN-2, NPS EN-4, and NPS EN-5.  Considerations as 
to siting, Habitats and Species Regulations, alternatives, good design, 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
14 
consideration of Combined Heat and Power, grid connection, safety, 
health, nuisance and security have been given due regard as 
demonstrated in the Environmental Statement (Document Reference 
6.1) and its appendices (Document Reference 6.2), the Design and 
Access Statement and its appended Design Principles Statement 
(Document Reference 10.2), the Planning Statement (Document 
Reference 10.1) and the Grid Connection Statement (Document 
Reference 9.1). The Environmental Statement has also assessed all 
relevant likely significant environmental effects and has proposed 
appropriate mitigation wherever feasible. This is to be secured through 
compliance with various submitted documents and further approvals 
such as under the proposed requirements attached to the draft Order 
(see Schedule 2 to the draft Order, Document Reference 3.1).   
1.52 
It is considered that there are no relevant adverse impacts or 
disbenefits sufficient to outweigh the likely benefits of the Project 
including the improvements to the appearance and condition of the 
Power Generation Plant Site, the local and regional economic benefits, 
and the considerable public benefit to meeting the national need for 
flexible gas generation. 
1.53 
It is considered that there are no international obligations that would be 
breached if the Order were made in the terms proposed. There are 
considered to be no likely significant effects in respect of sites 
designated under the Habitats Directive nor species protected 
thereunder as set out in the no likely significant effects report submitted 
with the Application (Document Reference 5.7).  
1.54 
In conclusion and in line with the factors set out in Section 104 of the 
Act there is a compelling case in the public interest for the Order to be 
made in the terms proposed and in the absence of sufficient indications 
to the contrary.   
Special Considerations (Section 8) 
Statutory Undertakers Land   
1.55 
The Order Land includes an overhead electricity line (owned and 
operated by NGET).  Whilst the Project would eventually connect into 
this line, PPL, in constructing the Project, would not affect the overhead 
line (PPL is in discussions with NGET over any Protective Provisions 
NGET may require to be included in the Order).   
1.56 
The Order Land also contains equipment and apparatus owned by UK 
Power Networks (Operations) Limited.  It is not anticipated that the 
Project would affect this equipment and apparatus and PPL has written 
to UK Power Networks (Operations) Limited to ask if they require any 
protective provisions to be included in the draft Order. PPL is also 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
15 
liaising with Anglian Water over protective provisions that they may wish 
to see included in the draft Order. 
Other consents 
1.57 
Other consents are required in order for the Project to be constructed 
and subsequently operate.  The Consents Management Document 
(Document Reference 5.6) sets out the additional consents required 
and when they will be applied for.  Some of these additional consents 
are identified below:   
1.57.1 As required under Section 6 of the Electricity Act 1989, PPL will 
submit an application for a Generation Licence to the Gas and 
Electricity Markets Authority prior to any operational activities 
taking place. 
1.57.2 PPL entered into a Bilateral Connection Agreement and 
Construction Agreement with NGET on 12 November 2013 to 
connect the Power Generation Plant to the National Electricity 
Transmission System.  
1.57.3 As required by the Environmental Permitting (England and 
Wales) Regulations 2010 as amended, PPL will submit an 
application for an Environmental Permit, required to operate the 
Project, to the Environment Agency.  PPL has been in 
discussions 
with 
the 
Environment 
Agency 
about 
an 
Environmental Permit and supplied the Environment Agency 
with detailed information in relation to the same. PPL is seeking 
to produce a Statement of Common Ground with the 
Environment Agency before any examination of the Order.   
1.57.4 No European Protected Species have been identified to date.  
Discussions with Natural England will be commenced in the 
event that any European Protected Species are identified in 
further protected species surveys. 
1.57.5 A consent under the Land Drainage Act 1991, as amended by 
the Flood and Water Management Act 2010 (ordinary water 
course consent), will be required in relation to the Project.  An 
application for an Ordinary Watercourse Consent will be 
submitted two months prior to commencement of the works. 
1.57.6 The Greenhouse Gas Emissions Trading Scheme Regulations 
2005 require any operator that carries out a 'regulated activity' 
to have a permit. Regulated activities include combustion that 
uses large amounts of energy or generate large amounts of 
CO2, perfluorocarbons or nitrous oxide (NO2) (under Annex 1 of 
Directive 2009/29/EC) and so will capture the Project unless an 
exemption applies. 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
16 
Human Rights (Section 9)    
1.58 
The draft Order has the potential to infringe the human rights of persons 
who own property or have rights in the land proposed to be acquired 
pursuant to the draft Order.   
1.59 
PPL considers that there would be very significant public benefit arising 
from the making of the draft Order for the Project.  That benefit can only 
be realised if the Order includes compulsory purchase powers.   
1.60 
PPL considers that there is a compelling case in the public interest for 
the exercise of such powers of compulsory acquisition.  PPL considers 
that it would, therefore, be appropriate and proportionate for the 
Secretary of State to make the Order, including the grant of compulsory 
acquisition powers.   
Further Information (Section 10) 
1.61 
Owners and occupiers of property affected by the draft Order who wish 
to negotiate a sale or discuss matters of compensation should contact 
Susannah Harvey of Progress Power Limited (Tel - 0131 550 3380, 
email - sharvey@stagenergy.com).   
1.62 
Provision is made by statute with regard to compensation for the 
compulsory acquisition of land and the depreciation value of properties. 
Helpful information is given in the series of booklets published by the 
Department 
for 
Communities 
and 
Local 
Government 
entitled 
"Compulsory Purchase and Compensation".  Copies of these booklets 
are obtainable, free of charge, from: 
https://www.gov.uk/government/collections/compulsory-purchase-
system-guidance    
 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
17 
2. 
INTRODUCTION     
2.1 
This Statement of Reasons relates to an Application (the "Application") 
by Progress Power Limited ("PPL") to the Secretary of State under the 
Planning Act 2008 for powers to construct, operate and maintain: 
2.1.1 
a thermal generating station (the "Power Generation Plant") 
on land at the former Eye Airfield located in Eye, Mid Suffolk;  
2.1.2 
an underground gas pipeline ("Pipeline") with an Above Ground 
Installation ("AGI") (together the "Gas Connection") to provide 
fuel to the Power Generation Plant;  
2.1.3 
an underground cable circuit (the "Cable") connecting the 
Electrical Connection Compound and the Power Generation 
Plant; and 
2.1.4 
a substation and sealing end compound (the "Electrical 
Connection Compound").    
2.2 
The Application also seeks consent for an access road to the Electrical 
Connection Compound (the "Access Road") and works enabling the 
Access Road to link into the A140 (the "A140 Junction"). 
2.3 
In this Statement, the term "Electrical Connection" encompasses the 
Cable, the Electrical Connection Compound, the Access Road and the 
A140 Junction.    
2.4 
The Power Generation Plant, the Gas Connection and the Electrical 
Connection are together described in this Statement as the "Project". 
2.5 
The Power Generation Plant would be located on the former Eye 
Airfield within the administrative area of Mid Suffolk District Council in 
the County of Suffolk and would operate as a Simple Cycle Gas Turbine 
("SCGT") peaking plant designed to provide an electrical output of up to 
299 Megawatts electrical ("MWe"). As a peaking plant, the Power 
Generation Plant would be required to operate when there is a surge in 
demand for electricity associated with a particular event or where there 
is a sudden drop in power being generated from other plants that are 
designed to be constantly operational (e.g. a sudden outage). The 
Power Generation Plant would also help to „balance out‟ the grid at 
times when other technologies (such as wind and solar farms) cannot 
generate electricity due to their intermittent operation and reliance on 
weather conditions.  The Power Generation Plant would operate for up 
to 1500 hours per year, responding to changes in power demand.         
2.6 
The Power Generation Plant would be fuelled by natural gas, supplied 
to the Power Generation Plant by the Pipeline (an approximate length of 
1.7km) connecting the Power Generation Plant to the existing National 
Transmission System ("NTS") in the vicinity of the Project Site.  An AGI 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
18 
containing gas regulating equipment would be required to connect the 
Pipeline to the NTS and would be located via a new access road off 
Potash Lane.  
2.7 
In order to export electricity generated by the Power Generation Plant to 
the National Grid, the Cable (approximate length of 1.6km) would 
connect the Power Generation Plant to the Electrical Connection 
Compound comprising of a new substation and sealing end compound 
located on agricultural land to the south of „The Leys‟, north of Mellis 
Road.  The Electrical Connection Compound would require the Access 
Road and the A140 Junction for operational maintenance purposes.     
2.8 
This Statement has been produced pursuant to Regulation 5(2)(h) of 
the Infrastructure Planning (Applications: Prescribed Forms and 
Procedure) Regulations 2009 (the "APFP Regulations") and the 
Department of Communities and Local Government guidance, 'Planning 
Act 2008: Guidance related to procedures for the compulsory 
acquisition of land' (September 2013) (the "Guidance"). 
2.9 
The Project, comprising an electricity generating plant with an average 
gross electrical output in excess of 50 MWe, falls within the definition of 
a "nationally significant infrastructure project" under section 15(2)(c) of 
the Planning Act 2008 (the "Act"). It is, therefore, necessary for PPL to 
apply to the Secretary of State for development consent to construct, 
operate and maintain the Project under Section 31 of the Act.   
2.10 
This Statement forms part of the suite of documents accompanying the 
Application submitted in accordance with Section 55 of the Act and 
Regulation 5 of the APFP Regulations. The Application seeks the 
making of the proposed Progress Power (Gas Fired Power Station) 
Order, which would confer the powers required. 
 
2.11 
The Statement is one of a number of documents required to support the 
Application submitted to the Secretary of State, listed in Schedule 1 to 
this Statement, and should be read together with those documents. This 
statement has been prepared in accordance with Regulation 5(2)(h) of 
the APFP Regulations and explains why it is necessary to acquire land, 
acquire and/or create rights in, on and over land, to extinguish or 
suspend rights in, on and over land and to temporarily use land for the 
purposes of the Project, if necessary by compulsion.   
2.12 
The Application is necessary so that PPL has the requisite powers to 
construct, operate and maintain the Project which is a nationally 
significant infrastructure project for which there is a pressing national 
need. The Project itself has been the subject of an extensive 
consultation exercise. It is in line with national and local policy in 
respect of planning and electricity generation. PPL has contracts in 
place to acquire a substantial part of the land required for the Project.  A 
contract has been signed to enable PPL to acquire the Power 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
19 
Generation Plant Site, the land and rights for the majority of the Gas 
Connection Site and the land and rights for a substantial part of the 
Electrical Connection Route Corridor to the east of the A140.  
Negotiations with regard to the purchase of land, the acquisition of 
and/or creation of easement rights and any other rights and interests 
required for the remaining parts of the Gas Connection Site, for the 
remaining parts of the Electrical Connection Route Corridor, for the 
Electrical Connection Compound Site, for the Access and the A140 
Junction are in progress. The Tables in Section 6 sets out the current 
negotiation status.    
2.13 
Although negotiations for the purchase of land, rights and interests are 
ongoing in respect of the remaining parts of the Gas Connection Site, 
for the remaining parts of the Electrical Connection Route Corridor, for 
the Electrical Connection Compound Site, for the Access and the A140 
Junction, it is necessary for PPL to seek compulsory purchase powers 
to secure such land, rights and interests and to ensure that any third 
party interests or encumbrances affecting such land, rights and 
interests are acquired or overridden pursuant to the Development 
Consent Order ("DCO"), thereby ensuring that the Project can be 
constructed, operated and maintained in accordance with the powers 
sought under the draft Progress Power (Gas Fired Power Station) Order 
("Order").     
2.14 
Whilst PPL has secured a contract to enable PPL to acquire the Power 
Generation Plant Site, the land and rights for the majority of the Gas 
Connection Site and the land and rights for a substantial part of the 
Electrical Connection Route Corridor to the east of the A140, PPL is 
seeking compulsory purchase powers over this land (see Power 
Generation Plant Land Plan, Gas Connection Land Plan and Electrical 
Connection Land Plans, Sheets 1 to 4, Document Reference 2.6) to 
ensure that certain easements and other private rights identified  as 
affecting that land are extinguished so as to facilitate the construction 
and operation of the Project without hindrance (see sections 1.2, 1.3, 
2.2, 2.3, 3.2 and 3.3 of the Book of Reference (Document Reference 
4.3)).  In addition, there may be unknown rights, restrictions, easements 
or servitudes affecting that land which also need to be over-ridden, 
removed and/or extinguished in order to facilitate the construction and 
operation of the Project without hindrance.       
2.15 
PPL considers that there is a compelling case in the public interest, in 
accordance with section 122 of the Act, for the making of the Order and 
the inclusion of powers of compulsory acquisition to enable the Project 
to be constructed, operated and maintained.         
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
20 
3. 
POWERS OF COMPULSORY PURCHASE UNDER THE PLANNING 
ACT 2008   
3.1 
Powers 
3.1.1 
Section 120 of the Act provides that an order granting 
development consent may make provision relating to, or to 
matters ancillary to, the development for which consent is 
granted.  Schedule 5 to the Act lists the matters ancillary to the 
development.  These include: 
(a) 
the acquisition of land, compulsorily or by agreement 
(paragraph 1); 
(b) 
the creation, suspension or extinguishment of, or 
interference with, interests in or rights over land, 
compulsorily or by agreement (paragraph 2); 
(c) 
the abrogation or modification of agreements relating to 
land (paragraph 3); 
(d) 
the payment of compensation (paragraph 36). 
3.1.2 
Section 122 of the Act provides that an order granting 
development consent may include provision authorising the 
compulsory acquisition of land only if the Secretary of State, in 
respect of the Application, is satisfied that: 
(a) 
the land is required for the development to which the 
DCO relates; 
(b) 
the land is required to facilitate or is incidental to that 
development; or  
(c) 
the land is replacement land for commons, open 
spaces, etc.1  
3.1.3 
Further, it is also necessary for the Secretary of State to be 
satisfied, in relation to the Application, that there is a compelling 
case in the public interest for the inclusion of powers of 
compulsory acquisition in the DCO. This is required by section 
122(3) of the Act.   
3.2 
Powers of compulsory acquisition in the Order for the Project   
3.2.1 
Under environmental impact assessment legislation there is no 
general requirement to consider alternatives, only a requirement 
to outline the main alternatives studied by the applicant and an 
                                                      
1 The provision referred to in this sub-paragraph is not relevant in respect of the Project.  
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
21 
indication of the main reason for the applicant's choice.  
Furthermore, National Policy Statement EN-1 ("NPS EN-1") 
advises at paragraph 4.4.1 that "from a policy perspective this 
NPS does not contain any general requirement to consider 
alternatives or to establish whether the proposed project 
represents the best option." However, NPS EN-1 makes it clear 
at paragraph 4.4.3 that where there is a policy or legal 
requirement to consider alternatives the applicant should 
describe the alternatives considered in compliance with these 
requirements.   
3.2.2 
As explained in Sections 6 and 7 of this Statement, PPL has 
given careful consideration to the suitability of the Order Limits 
for the Project.  The Design and Access Statement (Document 
Reference 10.2 considers the alternatives in the design of the 
Project and the Environmental Statement (Document Reference 
6.1) sets out the main alternatives studied by PPL.  Alternatives 
are also further discussed in Section 6.7 below.     
3.2.3 
Having finalised the location for the Project, PPL completed an 
option agreement for that part of the Order Limits on which: 
(a) 
the Power Generation Plant is to be located (Plot 1_MS 
shown on the Power Generation Plant Land Plan, Sheet 
1, Document Reference 2.6);  
(b) 
part of the Gas Connection is to be located (Plots 
1_GR, 2_GR, 3_GR and 4_GR shown on the Gas 
Connection Land Plan, Sheet 2, Document Reference 
2.6); and  
(c) 
part of the Electrical Connection Route Corridor is to be 
located (Plots 1_ER, 2_ER, 3_ER and part of 4_ER 
shown on the Electrical Connection Land Plans, Sheet 
3, Document Reference 2.6).    
However, PPL is including this land within the Order Land in 
order to ensure that certain easements and other private rights 
identified as affecting that land are extinguished so as to 
facilitate the construction and operation of the Project without 
hindrance (see sections 1.2, 1.3, 2.2, 2.3, 3.2 and 3.3 of the 
Book of Reference (Document Reference 4.3)).  In addition, 
there may be unknown rights, restrictions, easements or 
servitudes affecting that land which also need to be over-ridden, 
removed and/or extinguished in order to facilitate the 
construction and operation of the Project without hindrance.     
3.2.4 
In addition, PPL requires the remaining land, legal interests and 
new rights as shown on the Land Plans to construct and 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
22 
operate the Project, being the remaining parts of the Gas 
Connection Site, the remaining parts of the Electrical 
Connection 
Route 
Corridor, 
the 
Electrical 
Connection 
Compound Site, the Access and the A140 Junction (see the 
Land Plans, Sheets 1 to 5, Document Reference 2.6), in a 
reasonable timeframe to enable the Project to be constructed 
and contribute to the need for energy supply.      
3.2.5 
Whilst land, rights and interests will be secured by agreement 
wherever possible, and negotiations continue with all identified 
owners, it is essential that compulsory purchase powers are 
available to PPL to enable the Project to be constructed at the 
earliest opportunity.   
3.2.6 
Powers are also sought to enable the use of the Order Limits for 
the purposes of the Project and to ensure that any, for example, 
rights, restrictions, easements or servitudes are over-ridden, 
removed and/or extinguished.     
3.2.7 
This Statement sets out the information relevant to the 
considerations listed above.        
4. 
SCHEME DETAILS        
4.1 
PPL is seeking to develop a gas fired power station, together with the 
integral Gas Connection and Cable, at the former Eye Airfield located in 
Eye, Mid Suffolk.  PPL is the Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) which has 
been set up to develop the Project and has been established by Watt 
Power Limited ("WPL").  WPL has been established to develop flexible 
gas fired generation assets to support the UK Government drive to a 
low carbon economy.      
4.2 
It is intended that the Power Generation Plant would operate within the 
framework being established by government under the Capacity 
Market. This is a key part of the government‟s Electricity Market Reform 
and seeks to ensure that the UK has enough reliable electricity capacity 
to meet current and future electricity demand. Operation under the 
Capacity Market is subject to bidding into a competitive auction and it 
would be necessary for a DCO to be made in order to participate in this 
auction. Accordingly the design of the scheme and the terms of the draft 
Order have paid regard to the need for a competitive bid. However, 
participating in, or being successful in, the Capacity Market is not a pre-
requisite for PPL to construct and operate the Project.     
4.3 
A brief description of the elements that comprise the Project is set out 
below. More detail on these elements can be found in Section 4 of the 
Environmental Statement (Document Reference 6.1).   
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
23 
4.4 
The Power Generation Plant would be a Simple Cycle Gas Turbine 
("SCGT") gas fired „peaking‟ power generating plant. To generate up to 
299 MWe, between 1 and 5 Gas Turbine Generators would be used, 
either each with its own emission flue stack or one stack for a pair of 
turbines, each stack to be between 25m and 30m in height.  The Power 
Generation Plant would further be composed of a banking compound; a 
gas receiving installation; a black start generator; water tanks and 
support buildings and structures. The location of the Power Generation 
Plant is shown on the Power Generation Plant Land Plan (Sheet 1, 
Document Reference 2.6) and the various components that comprise 
the Power Generation Plant are shown on Figure 2 of the Works Plans 
(Document Reference 2.7).     
4.5 
To function, the Power Generation Plant requires an electrical 
connection to export the electricity generated to the national electricity 
transmission system.  The integral Cable would connect the Power 
Generation Plant to the Electrical Connection Compound, in summary: 
4.5.1 
the Cable would commence in the banking compound (within 
the Power Generation Plant) and exit the western edge of the 
Power Generation Plant Site and head south down Potash 
Lane (the former Eye Airfield Main Runway) before turning 
west, to the south of the Speed Deck factory and crossing the 
northern edge of the agricultural field towards the A140. At the 
A140, the Cable would pass under the road before heading in a 
westerly direction across agricultural land towards the 400 kV 
overhead line;  
4.5.2 
on the west of the A140, the Cable would cross agricultural 
fields in a near perfect east – west orientation.  To the west of 
these fields, the Cable would pass under Leys Lane and 
continue west, running parallel to an existing hedge line until it 
meets the Electrical Connection Compound Site;    
4.5.3 
the total length of the Cable would be approximately 1.6km.     
4.6 
The Electrical Connection Compound would consist of a substation and 
a sealing end compound on agricultural land to the south of „The Leys‟, 
north of Mellis Road.  The sealing end compound would be 
approximately 45m X 22m located on the west side of the existing 
overhead line. The substation would be located on the east side of the 
existing overhead line.  A substation can either be an air insulated 
substation (AIS) or a gas insulated substation (GIS).  PPL considers 
that the substation with AIS technology is appropriate and acceptable in 
the location of the Electrical Connection Compound. The substation 
with AIS technology would be 150 m X 150 m.  In the event that it is 
considered that the substation should be of a GIS design, then the 
substation would be 80m x 100 m.  Both technology choices would be 
sited within the parameters of Work No. 5 (see Schedule 1 to the draft 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
24 
Order and Sheet 2 of 2 of Figure 1, Works Plan (Document References 
3.1 and 2.7 respectively).     
4.7 
The Electrical Connection Compound would be constructed, owned and 
operated by NGET.   
4.8 
Permanent access to both the Cable and the Electrical Connection 
Compound would be required for construction and subsequent 
maintenance of the Electrical Connection Compound. This would be 
provided via a new permanent Access Road to be constructed along 
the route of the Cable between the A140 and the Electrical Connection 
Compound. The A140 Junction would comprise a new three way 
highway junction (T-Junction) with „Give Way‟ signals onto the A140.  
The track itself would be a single lane surfaced road with passing 
places. The Access Road and the A140 Junction are shown on Sheets 
1 and 2 of Figure 1, Works Plans (Document Reference 2.7) as Work 
No. 7.       
4.9 
A key part of the Power Generation Plant is its fuel.  The Gas 
Connection would be a new underground gas pipeline connection to 
bring natural gas to the Power Generation Plant from the existing high 
pressure gas NTS located off Potash Lane.  The Gas Connection would 
be composed of an AGI comprising of a PIG Trap Facility alongside a 
MOC, and an approximate 1.7km (taken from the indicative centreline 
of Work No. 4) gas pipeline laid to the gas receiving installation in the 
Power Generation Plant (as shown on Sheet 1 of Figure 1, Works 
Plans, Document Reference 2.7).      
4.10 
The MOC would be constructed, owned and operated by National Grid 
Gas while the PIG Trap Facility would be constructed, owned and 
operated by PPL. 
4.11 
The proposed Power Generation Plant, Gas Connection and Electrical 
Connection are referred to as the Project.  The Project comprises works 
that are classed as the nationally significant infrastructure project and 
works that are classed as associated development under the Act.  
4.12 
The Power Generation Plant, Gas Connection and Cable constitute the 
nationally significant infrastructure project elements of the Project.   
4.13 
The Electrical Connection Compound, Access Road and the A140 
Junction constitute the associated development elements of the Project.       
5. 
LOCATION AND DESCRIPTION OF THE ORDER LAND     
5.1 
Description of the Order Limits   
5.1.1 
The site required to facilitate the Project is located on land at 
the former Eye Airfield located in Eye, Mid Suffolk. This section 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
25 
describes the Order Limits together with key features and 
characteristics of the surrounding landscape.   
5.1.2 
The entire Project lies within the administrative boundaries of: 
(a) 
in respect of the lower-tier district council, Mid Suffolk 
District Council;  
(b) 
in respect of the upper-tier county council, Suffolk 
County Council.  
5.1.3 
The MSDC area includes Stowmarket Urban District, Gipping 
Rural District, Hartismere Rural District and Thedwastre Rural 
District. These areas comprise a mixture of urban, semi-urban 
and rural communities, with the nearest population centre being 
Eye 1km to the south of the Power Generation Plant Site 
(population approximately 1,800). 
5.1.4 
Discussions and consultations on a range of matters have been 
held with both Councils since May 2013 as documented in the 
Consultation Report (Document Reference 5.1). 
5.1.5 
The Order Limits covers an area of approximately 28.96ha and 
comprises part of agricultural land forming parts of White House 
Farm, Red House Farm and Vine Farm; parts of disused 
runway complex at Eye Airfield, private road known as Potash 
Lane, private access track serving Yaxley Lake and part of 
public adopted highways known as the A140, Old Norwich 
Road and Leys Lane.  The Order Limits comprises the Power 
Generation Plant Site, the Gas Connection Site and the 
Electrical Connection Site.  
Power Generation Plant Site  
5.1.6 
The area required by the Power Generation Plant extends to 
8.67ha and is part of agricultural land forming part of White 
House Farm.  This comprises of Plot 1_MS as shown on the 
Power Generation Land Plan (Sheet 1, Document Reference 
2.6).   
5.1.7 
The approximate Grid Reference of the Power Generation Plant 
Site is 613239 275109 and the elevation is approximately 48m 
AOD.  
5.1.8 
The Power Generation Plant Site is a 8.67ha plot of land 
located within the former Eye Airfield. The former Eye Airfield 
accommodates several industrial parks, including: Brome 
Industrial Estate (to the north), Eye Airfield Industrial Estate (to 
the north-east), Mid Suffolk Business Park (to the east) and 
Oaksmere Business Park (to the west). The Power Generation 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
26 
Plant Site is located within a larger triangular area directly to the 
east of the former „main runway‟ and north of the former SW-NE 
runway.  
5.1.9 
The Power Generation Plant Site and immediate surrounding 
area is characterised by the remnants of the airfield, including 
the runway and the access roads. Buildings that once formed 
part of the airfield have been replaced by units accommodating 
various industrial activities including a power generation facility 
(the 12.7 MW Eye Chicken Litter Power Plant) and a National 
Grid Gas Compressor Station. Additionally, there are four large 
(130m high) wind turbines located on the former airfield. Two 
turbines to the west of Potash Lane operated by Triodos 
Renewables and two more to the south of the Power 
Generation Plant Site at Baldwin Farm.  
5.1.10 The Power Generation Plant Site is comprised of agricultural 
land surrounded by a belt of trees and earth bund to the east, 
over which lies the National Grid Compressor Station.  The 
Power Generation Plant Site is classed as Previously 
Developed Land within policy FC3 of the adopted Core Strategy 
(Mid Suffolk Local Development Framework, adopted 2008, 
reviewed in 2012).   
5.1.11 The Power Generation Plant Site is accessed from a private 
road to the south, Potash Lane, which in turn connects to 
Castleton Way, via the former main runway. Castleton Way 
provides connectivity to either the B1077 to the east and the 
A140 to the west. The A140 is the main road between Norwich 
and Ipswich (each some 30km away) and provides onward 
connectivity to the A14, about 20km to the south. The A140 
runs approximately 360m north from the site boundary at its 
closest point. The closest point of the B1077 to the site is 
approximately 460m east.  
5.1.12 The Power Generation Plant Site is in Flood Zone one and 
therefore has a low probability of flooding.   
Gas Connection Site  
5.1.13 The Gas Connection would extend to 8.23ha in total (part of the 
Gas Connection is included within the Power Generation Plant 
Site).  The Gas Connection Route Corridor would begin at the 
MOC within the AGI located to the south of the airfield, north of 
Castleton Way and east of Potash Lane.  The Gas Connection 
Route Corridor would cross Potash Lane heading west and 
around the perimeter of the agricultural field.  To the north of 
White House Farm, the Gas Connection Route Corridor 
traverses east, south of the Speed Deck Factory, then turning 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
27 
north up Potash Lane before crossing the runway and 
continuing north into the south west corner of the Power 
Generation Plant Site.     
5.1.14 The Gas Connection Route Corridor would connect to the AGI, 
to be located off Potash Lane at Grid Ref. TM 129 742.   
5.1.15 Access to the AGI for maintenance / repair would be via a new 
access created off Potash Lane.   
5.1.16 No new access points would be created to access the gas 
pipeline. In the unlikely event that there were issues with the 
operation of the gas pipeline, the route would be accessed on 
foot through existing open fields / alongside Potash Lane. 
5.1.17 The Gas Connection Route Corridor is in Flood Zone one and 
therefore has a low probability of flooding. 
5.1.18 The AGI is in Flood Zone one and therefore has a low 
probability of flooding. 
Electrical Connection   
5.1.19 The Electrical Connection comprises the Cable, which would 
extend to 5.89ha (part of the Cable is included in the Power 
Generation Plant Site) and is approximately 1.6km in length.  
5.1.20 The Cable would exit the south western edge of the Power 
Generation Plant Site and head south down Potash Lane (the 
former Eye Airfield Main Runway) before turning west, to the 
south of the Speed Deck factory and crossing the northern 
edge of the agricultural field towards the A140. At the A140, the 
Cable would pass under the A140 and Old Norwich Road 
before heading in a westerly direction across the agricultural 
land towards the 400 kV line. 
5.1.21 On the west of Old Norwich Road, the Cable would cross the 
agricultural fields in a near perfect east – west orientation.  To 
the west of these fields, the Cable would pass under Leys Lane 
and continue west, running parallel to an existing hedge line 
until it meets the Electrical Connection Compound Site. 
5.1.22 The Electrical Connection Route Corridor is in Flood Zone one 
and therefore has a low probability of flooding. 
5.1.23 The Electrical Connection also comprises the Electrical 
Connection Compound, which would extend to 7.08ha (being 
the extent of Work No. 5 on the Works Plan (Sheet 2 of Figure 
1, Document Reference 2.7).       
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
28 
5.1.24 The approximate Grid Reference of the Electrical Connection 
Compound Site is TM 116 748 and the elevation is 
approximately 45m AOD  
5.1.25 The Electrical Connection Compound would consist of a 
substation and a sealing end compound on agricultural land to 
the south of „The Leys‟, north of Mellis Road.  The sealing end 
compound would be approximately 45m X 22m located on the 
west side of the existing overhead line. The substation would be 
located on the east side of the existing overhead line.  A 
substation can either be an air insulated substation (AIS) or a 
gas insulated substation (GIS).  PPL considers that the 
substation with AIS technology is appropriate and acceptable in 
the location of the Electrical Connection Compound. The 
substation with AIS technology would be 150m X 150m.  In the 
event that it is considered that the substation should be of a 
GIS design, then the Substation would be 80m x 100m.  Both 
technology choices would be sited within the parameters of 
Work No. 5 (see Schedule 1 to the draft Order and Sheet 2 of 
Figure 1, Works Plans (Document References 3.1 and 2.7 
respectively).   
5.1.26 The Electrical Connection Compound is in Flood Zone one and 
therefore has a low probability of flooding. 
5.1.27 The Electrical Connection Compound would be located 
adjacent to an existing pylon and overhead high voltage 
transmission line to the south of The Leys, near Yaxley. It would 
be set within agricultural land in a diagonal arrangement to the 
small-scale rectangular field pattern. Topsoil stripped from the 
site would be used to raise ground levels in the surrounding 
planting areas. 
5.1.28 Extensive mitigation planting containing the same locally native 
species of trees and shrubs as hedgerows nearby, would 
reduce views of the Electrical Connection Compound from 
nearby residential properties and Private Right of Ways.  
5.1.29 The Electrical Connection also comprises the Access Road and 
the A140 Junction.  Permanent access to both the Cable and 
the Electrical Connection Compound would be required for 
construction and subsequent maintenance of the Electrical 
Connection Compound. This would be provided via a new 
permanent Access Road to be constructed along the route of 
the Cable between the A140 and the Electrical Connection 
Compound. The A140 Junction would comprise a new three 
way highway junction (T-Junction) with „Give Way‟ signals onto 
the A140.  The Access Road itself would be a single lane road 
with passing places. The Access Road and the A140 Junction 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
29 
are shown on the Works Plan (Figure 1) (Document Reference 
2.7) as Work No. 7.    
5.2 
Description of the Order Land                
5.2.1 
PPL is seeking compulsory purchase powers to secure certain 
lands, new rights and interests within the Order Limits to 
facilitate the Project.      
5.2.2 
The land over which compulsory purchase powers are sought in 
respect of the freehold is shown edged red and shaded pink on 
the Land Plans (Sheets 1, 2, 4 and 5, Document Reference 
2.6). This land is described in more detail, together with the 
reason for the acquisition, in Table 1, at paragraph 6.3.1. Article 
17 of the draft Order is relied upon in respect of this land.   
5.2.3 
The land over which rights are being compulsory sought is 
shown edged red and shaded blue on the Land Plans (Sheets 
2, 3, 4 and 5, Document Reference 2.6). This land is described 
in more detail, together with the reason for the acquisition of the 
rights, in Table 2, at paragraph 6.4.2. Article 20 of the draft 
Order is relied upon in respect of these rights.  
5.2.4 
The land over which temporary use is sought is shown (for ease 
of understanding) edged red and shaded yellow on the Land 
Plans (Sheets 2, 3, 4 and 5, Document Reference 2.6). This 
land is described in more detail, together with the reason for the 
use being sought, in Table 3, at paragraph 6.5.2.  Articles 15, 
26 and 27 of the draft Order are relied upon in respect of this 
land and as such no compulsory acquisition of rights is sought.     
5.2.5 
It can be seen from the Electrical Connection Land Plan (Sheet 
4, Document Reference 2.6) and the A140 Junction Land Plan 
(Sheet 5, Document Reference 2.6) that the new rights being 
compulsorily acquired in respect of Plot 9_ER and the 
temporary use of land in respect of Plot 3_JW overlap.  This is 
because the new right is in respect of the construction, 
installation, use and maintenance of an underground cable, 
whilst the temporary use is in respect of the above ground as a 
construction compound.   
5.3 
Private rights, interests, other rights and restrictive covenants 
affecting the Order Land 
5.3.1 
Pursuant to Article 21 of the draft Order: 
(a) 
all private rights over land subject to compulsory 
acquisition under the draft Order are to be extinguished;  
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
30 
(b) 
all private rights over land subject to the compulsory 
acquisition of rights under the draft Order are to be 
suspended and unenforceable or, where so notified by 
PPL, extinguished in so far as in either case their 
continuance would be inconsistent with the exercise of 
that right;  
(c) 
all private rights over land of which PPL takes 
temporary possession under the draft Order are to be 
suspended and unenforceable for so long as PPL 
remains in possession of the land and so far their 
continuance would be inconsistent with the exercise of 
the temporary possession of that land.   
5.3.2 
Article 18 of the draft Order is based on Section 237 of the 
Town and Country Planning Act 1990 and gives PPL the 
authority to carry out or use the authorised development and do 
anything else authorised by the draft Order notwithstanding that 
it involves the interference with an interest or right (meaning any 
easement, liberty, privilege, right or advantage annexed to land 
and adversely affecting other land including any natural right to 
support) or a breach of a restrictive covenant.  In this case, the 
interest, right or restrictive covenant would be overridden.   
5.3.3 
Table 4, at paragraph 6.6.2, identifies those plots where rights 
may be suspended or extinguished under Article 22 and where 
interests, rights and restrictive covenants may need to be 
overridden under Article 18, together with the reason for such 
suspension, extinguishment or overriding.  
Private rights to be extinguished (under Articles 21(1) and 28 the 
draft Order) and interests, other rights and restrictive covenants to 
be overridden under Article 18 the draft Order 
5.3.4 
Plot 1_MS (as shown on the Power Generation Plant Land 
Plan (Sheet 1, Document Reference 2.6)): the covenants, 
restrictions, easements and all other rights (except those for the 
benefit of UK Power Networks (Operations) Limited, which PPL 
has requested protective provisions regarding) detailed in the 
fourth column of the table at section 1.3 of the Book of the 
Reference (being Part 3 of the Book of Reference in respect of 
the Power Generation Plant (Document Reference 4.3)) are to 
be overridden or extinguished as provided for in Articles 18, 
21(1) and 28 of the draft Order.  In this respect, as stated in 
paragraphs 5.3.17 and 5.3.18 below, steps will be taken to 
remove or reposition the apparatus of utilities where the 
services affected require reinstatement so that the applicable 
utility services can be reinstated, maintained and operated. 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
31 
5.3.5 
Plot 7_GR (as shown on the Gas Connection Land Plan 
(Sheet 2, 
Document 
Reference 
2.6): 
the 
covenants, 
restrictions, easements and all other rights (except those for the 
benefit of National Grid Gas plc which PPL is in the process of 
agreeing protective provisions regarding) detailed in the fourth 
column of the table at section 2.3 of the Book of the Reference 
(being Part 3 of the Book of Reference in respect of the Gas 
Connection (Document Reference 4.3)) are to be overridden or 
extinguished as provided for in Articles 18, 21(1) and 28 of the 
draft Order.  In this respect, as stated in paragraphs 5.3.17 and 
5.3.18 below, steps will be taken to remove or reposition the 
apparatus of utilities where the services affected require 
reinstatement so that the applicable utility services can be 
reinstated, maintained and operated.  
5.3.6 
Plots 14_ER, 17_ER and 19_ER (as shown on the Electrical 
Connection Land Plan (Sheet 4, Document Reference 2.6)): 
the covenants, restrictions, easements and all other rights 
(except those for the benefit of National Grid Electricity 
Transmission plc which PPL is in the process of agreeing 
protective provisions regarding) detailed in the fourth column of 
the table at section 3.3 of the Book of the Reference (being Part 
3 of the Book of Reference in respect of the Electrical 
Connection (Document Reference 4.3)) are to be overridden or 
extinguished as provided for in Articles 18, 21(1) and 28 of the 
draft Order.  In this respect, as stated in paragraphs 5.3.17 and 
5.3.18 below, steps will be taken to remove or reposition the 
apparatus of utilities where the services affected require 
reinstatement so that the applicable utility services can be 
reinstated, maintained and operated. 
5.3.7 
Plot 16_ER (as shown on the Electrical Connection Land 
Plan (Sheet 4, Document Reference 2.6)): the covenants, 
restrictions, easements and all other rights detailed in the fourth 
column of the table at section 3.3 of the Book of the Reference 
(being Part 3 of the Book of Reference in respect of the 
Electrical Connection (Document Reference 4.3)) are to be 
overridden or extinguished as provided for in Articles 18, 21(1) 
and 28 of the draft Order.  In this respect, as stated in 
paragraphs 5.3.17 and 5.3.18 below, steps will be taken to 
remove or reposition the apparatus of utilities where the 
services affected require reinstatement so that the applicable 
utility services can be reinstated, maintained and operated. 
5.3.8 
Plots 1_JW and 2_JW (as shown on the A140 Junction 
Land Plan (Sheet 5, Document Reference 2.6)): the 
covenants, restrictions, easements and all other rights detailed 
in the fourth column of the table at section 4.3 of the Book of 
the Reference (being Part 3 of the Book of Reference in respect 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
32 
of the A140 Junction (Document Reference 4.3)) are to be 
overridden or extinguished as provided for in Articles 18, 21(1) 
and 28 of the draft Order.  In this respect, as stated in 
paragraphs 5.3.17 and 5.3.18 below, steps will be taken to 
remove or reposition the apparatus of utilities where the 
services affected require reinstatement so that the applicable 
utility services can be reinstated, maintained and operated. 
Private rights to be suspended or extinguished (under Articles 
21(2) and (4) and Article 28) and interests, other rights and 
restrictive covenants to be overridden under Article 18 the draft 
Order) 
5.3.9 
Plots 1a_GR, 2_GR and 2a_GR (as shown on the Gas 
Connection Land Plan (Sheet 2, Document Reference 2.6)) 
and Plots 1a_ER, 2_ER and 2a_ER (as shown on the 
Electrical Connection Land Plan (Sheet 3, Document 
Reference 2.6)): the covenants, restrictions, easements and all 
other rights (except those for the benefit of UK Power Networks 
(Operations) Limited which PPL has requested protective 
provisions regarding) as detailed in the fourth column of the 
table at section 2.3 and the table at section 3.3 of the Book of 
the Reference (being Part 3 of the Book of Reference in respect 
of the Gas Connection and the Electrical Connection 
respectively (Document Reference 4.3)) are to be overridden, 
suspended or extinguished as provided for in Articles 18, 21(2), 
21(4) and 28 of the draft Order.  In this respect, as stated in 
paragraphs 5.3.17 and 5.3.18 below, steps will be taken to 
remove or reposition the apparatus of utilities where the 
services affected require reinstatement so that the applicable 
utility services can be reinstated, maintained and operated.   
5.3.10 Plots 3_GR, 3a_GR, 6_GR and 6a_GR (as shown on the Gas 
Connection Land Plan (Sheet 2, Document Reference 2.6)) 
and Plots 3_ER and 3a_ER (as shown on the Electrical 
Connection Land Plan (Sheet 3, Document Reference 2.6)): 
the covenants, restrictions, easements and all other rights 
(except in the case of plots 6_GR and 6a_GR the right to pass 
and repass with or without vehicles over a 6m strip located at 
the western edge of the disused runway complex (Potash Lane) 
from Castleton Way for the benefit of units within Oaksmere 
Business Park, the freeholder of Eye Industrial Estate and units 
adjoining Plot 1_MS) as detailed in the fourth column of the 
table at section 2.3 and the table at section 3.3 of the Book of 
the Reference (being Part 3 of the Book of Reference in respect 
of the Gas Connection and the Electrical Connection 
respectively (Document Reference 4.3)) are to be overridden, 
suspended or extinguished as provided for in Articles 18, 21(2), 
21(4) and 28 of the draft Order.  In this respect, as stated in 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
33 
paragraphs 5.3.17 and 5.3.18 below, steps will be taken to 
remove or reposition the apparatus of utilities where the 
services affected require reinstatement so that the applicable 
utility services can be reinstated, maintained and operated.   
5.3.11 Plots 1_GR, 2b_GR, 4_GR, 4a_GR, and 7a_GR (as shown 
on the Gas Connection Land Plan (Sheet 2, Document 
Reference 2.6)) and Plots 1_ER, 2b_ER, 4_ER, 4a_ER, 
4b_ER, 4c_ER, 5_ER and 6_ER (as shown on the Electrical 
Connection Land Plan (Sheet 3, Document Reference 2.6)): 
the covenants, restrictions, easements and all other rights 
(except those for the benefit of National Grid Gas plc which PPL 
is in the process of agreeing protective provisions regarding) as 
detailed in the fourth column of the table at section 2.3 and the 
table at section 3.3 of the Book of the Reference (being Part 3 
of the Book of Reference in respect of the Gas Connection and 
the Electrical Connection respectively (Document Reference 
4.3)) are to be overridden, suspended or extinguished as 
provided for in Articles 18, 21(2), 21(4) and 28 of the draft 
Order.  In this respect, as stated in paragraphs 5.3.17 and 
5.3.18 below, steps will be taken to remove or reposition the 
apparatus of utilities where the services affected require 
reinstatement so that the applicable utility services can be 
reinstated, maintained and operated.   
5.3.12 Plot 18_ER (as shown on the Electrical Connection Land 
Plan (Sheet 3, Document Reference 2.6)): the covenants, 
restrictions, easements and all other rights (except those for the 
benefit of National Grid Electricity Transmission plc which PPL 
is in the process of agreeing protective provisions regarding) 
detailed in the fourth column of the table at section 3.3 of the 
Book of the Reference (being Part 3 of the Book of Reference 
in respect of the Electrical Connection (Document Reference 
4.3)) are to be overridden, suspended or extinguished as 
provided for in Articles 18, 21(2), 21(4) and 28 of the draft 
Order.  In this respect, as stated in paragraphs 5.3.17 and 
5.3.18 below, steps will be taken to remove or reposition the 
apparatus of utilities where the services affected require 
reinstatement so that the applicable utility services can be 
reinstated, maintained and operated.   
MATTERS 
AFFECTING 
THE 
ORDER 
LAND 
AND 
BEING 
INTERFERED WITH BY THE PROJECT         
Public Highways   
5.3.13 Within the Order Land, there are the following publically 
adopted highways which will be affected the Project:   
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
34 
(a) 
A140 affected by the Cable and A140 Junction works 
as shown on the Electrical Connection Land Plan and 
the A140 Junction Land Plan (Sheets 3 and 5 
respectively, Document Reference 2.6);  
(b) 
Old Norwich Road affected by the Cable and A140 
Junction works as shown on the Electrical Connection 
Land Plan and the A140 Junction Land Plan (Sheets 3 
and 5 respectively, Document Reference 2.6); and  
(c) 
Leys Lane affected by the Cable as shown on the 
Electrical Connection Land Plan (Sheet 3 and 4, 
Document Reference 2.6).  
5.3.14 In respect of these public highways, PPL is not seeking formal 
rights of acquisition or new rights over the highways but is 
relying on Articles 8, 9, 10, 11, 25 and 26 of the draft Order (any 
interference with rights, restrictions etc over the Order land 
arising from the exercise of any articles in the Order which 
provide statutory to access and/.or use land within the Order 
limits are captured in Part 3 of the Book of Reference) in 
relation to street works to enter onto them and to lay and 
maintain apparatus in them, to construct means of access and 
to create temporary prohibitions and restrictions of the use of 
such streets to carry out such works.  The  reference on the 
Electrical Connection Land Plan (Sheets 3 and 4, Document 
Reference 2.6) to new rights being acquired across these public 
highways is to new rights being acquired below the public 
highway should there be a need to install the Cable below the 
publically adopted layer of the highway.  
5.3.15 Access to all premises adjoining public highways affected by 
the Project will be maintained at all times during the execution 
and operation of the works and will not be materially affected by 
the operation of the Project.  
Private rights of way 
5.3.16 Save in respect of plots 3_GR, 3_ER, 3a_GR and 3a_ER, PPL 
is not seeking to suspend or extinguish any rights of access to 
units within Oaksmere Business Park, the freeholder of Eye 
Industrial Estate and the units adjoining Plot 1_MS. In this 
respect, access to all premises from private rights of way will be 
maintained at all times during the execution and operation of 
the works and will not be materially affected by the operation of 
the Project. With regard to plots 3_GR, 3_ER, 3a_GR and 
3a_ER, PPL may need to suspend access across these plots 
during construction but is seeking rights to allow vehicles to 
pass and re-pass across plots 2_GR, 2_ER, 2b_GR and 2b_ER 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
35 
in order to ensure uninterrupted access to the users of this 
private road. 
Utility Rights 
 
5.3.17 Where the rights of utilities, in relation to their apparatus, are 
interfered with steps will be taken to remove or reposition their 
apparatus so that utility services can be reinstated, maintained 
and operated.  Articles 28 and 29 of the draft Order will be 
relied upon in this respect.   
5.3.18 Where private rights of utilities are interfered with, steps will be 
taken either to ensure that the utility continues to function or the 
apparatus is removed or repositioned so that the utility can be 
reinstated, maintained and operated.   
5.3.19 PPL has contacted National Grid, UK Power Networks and 
Anglian Water to discuss protective provisions and is actively 
negotiating the same with National Grid. 
6. 
NEED FOR THE COMPULSORY ACQUISITION OF LAND AND 
RIGHTS               
6.1 
The matters to which the Secretary of State must have regard  
6.1.1 
Under Section 122 of the Act, a DCO which includes 
compulsory acquisition powers may be granted only if the 
conditions in Sections 122(2) and 122(3) of the Act are met.  
The conditions to be met are: 
(a) 
at Section 122(2), that the land is required for the 
development to which the DCO relates or is required to 
facilitate or is incidental to the development (see 
paragraphs 6.2, 6.3, 6.4, 6.5 and 6.6  below); and  
(b) 
at Section 122(3), there is a compelling case in the 
public interest for inclusion of powers of compulsory 
acquisition in the DCO.  The Secretary of State must be 
persuaded that the public benefits from the compulsory 
acquisitions will outweigh the private loss suffered by 
those whose land is to be acquired (see paragraphs 
6.2, 6.3, 6.4, 6.5 and 6.6 and Section 7 below).  
6.1.2 
In respect of the Section 122(2) condition, the Guidance (at 
paragraph 11) states that applicants should be able to 
demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Secretary of State that the 
land in question is needed for the development for which 
consent is sought.  The Guidance goes on to say that the 
Secretary of State will need to be satisfied that the land to be 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
36 
acquired is no more than is reasonably required for the 
purposes of the development.  
6.1.3 
In respect of the Section 122(3) condition, the Guidance (at 
paragraph 13) states that the Secretary of State will need to be 
persuaded that there is compelling evidence that the public 
benefits that would be derived from the compulsory acquisition 
will outweigh the private loss that would be suffered by those 
whose land is to be acquired. At paragraph 14, the Guidance 
states that in determining where the balance of public interest 
lies, the Secretary of State will weigh up the public benefits that 
a scheme will bring against any private loss to those affected by 
compulsory acquisition.   
6.1.4 
Further, paragraphs 8 to 10 of the Guidance also sets out a 
number of general considerations that the applicant must 
demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Secretary of State when 
justifying an order authorising compulsory acquisition.  These 
are as follows: 
(a) 
that 
all 
reasonable 
alternatives 
to 
compulsory 
acquisition (including modifications to the Project) have 
been explored (see paragraph 6.7 below); 
(b) 
that the proposed interference with the rights of those 
with an interest in the land is for a legitimate purpose 
and is necessary and proportionate (see paragraphs 
6.3, 6.4, 6.5 and 6.6 below); 
(c) 
that PPL has a clear idea of how it intends to use the 
land which it is proposed to acquire (see paragraphs 
6.3, 6.4, 6.5 and 6.6  below);  
(d) 
that there is a reasonable prospect of the requisite 
funds for the acquisition becoming available (see the 
Funding Statement (Document Reference 4.2); and  
(e) 
that the purposes for which compulsory acquisition of 
land powers are included in the DCO are legitimate and 
are sufficient to justify interfering with the human rights 
of those with an interest in the land affected (see 
paragraphs 6.3, 6.4, 6.5 and 6.6 and Section 7 below).   
6.1.5 
This statement sets out the factors that PPL considers 
demonstrate that the conditions in Section 122 of the Act, and 
the considerations set out in the Guidance, are satisfied.    
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
37 
6.2 
Need for Compulsory Acquisition of Land and Rights (Sections 
122(2) and (3) of the Act)        
6.2.1 
As stated above at paragraph 3.2.3, PPL completed an option 
agreement for that part of the Order Limits on which: 
(a) 
the Power Generation Plant is to be located (Plot 1_MS 
shown on the Power Generation Plant Land Plan, Sheet 
1, Document Reference 2.6);  
(b) 
part of the Gas Connection is to be located (Plots 
1_GR, 2_GR, 3_GR and 4_GR shown on the Gas 
Connection Land Plan, Sheet 2, Document Reference 
2.6); and  
(c) 
part of the Electrical Connection Route Corridor is to be 
located (Plots 1_ER, 2_ER, 3_ER and part of 4_ER 
shown on the Electrical Connection Land Plans, Sheet 
3, Document Reference 2.6).   
However, PPL is including this land within the Order Land in 
order to ensure that certain easements and other private rights 
identified as affecting that land are extinguished so as to 
facilitate the construction and operation of the Project without 
hindrance (see sections 1.2, 1.3, 2.2, 2.3, 3.2 and 3.3 of the 
Book of Reference (Document Reference 4.3)).    In addition, 
there may be unknown rights, restrictions, easements or 
servitudes affecting that land which also need to be overridden, 
removed and/or extinguished in order to facilitate the 
construction and operation of the Project without hindrance.       
6.2.2 
In addition, to ensure that the Project can be facilitated, and the 
Government's policy in relation to the timely provision of new 
generating capacity is met within a reasonable timescale, PPL 
requires the acquisition of a number of property interests in third 
party ownership and the grant of powers to facilitate acquisition 
and/or creation of new rights and interests and to suspend or 
extinguish rights and other interests in or over land.  
6.2.3 
PPL has been seeking to acquire the remaining land, temporary 
use of land and rights (shown edged red and shaded pink, 
yellow and blue respectively on the Gas Connection Land Plan, 
Electrical Connection Land Plans, and the A140 Junction Land 
Plan (Sheets 2, 3, 4 and 5, Document Reference 2.6) by private 
treaty, in order to ensure implementation of the Project. 
However, it has not yet been possible to acquire all of the land, 
the temporary use of land and the rights required by private 
treaty.  In addition, PPL requires certain matters to be 
suspended, overridden or extinguished within the Order Land 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
38 
so as to ensure there are no impediments to the construction, 
operation and maintenance of the Project. 
6.2.4 
In the absence of powers of compulsory acquisition, the Order 
Land may not be assembled, uncertainty will continue to prevail 
and PPL considers that its objectives and Government policy 
objectives would not be achieved. 
6.2.5 
Whilst seeking compulsory purchase powers, PPL will also 
endeavour to purchase the land, the temporary use of land, the 
rights and other interests, as well as secure the removal of 
matters affecting the Order Land that may impede the Project, 
by agreement wherever possible. This approach of making the 
application for powers of compulsory acquisition in the 
Application 
for 
the 
DCO 
and, 
in 
parallel, 
conducting 
negotiations to acquire land by agreement, accords with 
paragraph 26 of the Guidance. 
6.2.6 
PPL's justification for seeking compulsory purchase powers, in 
accordance with the provisions of the Act, is to secure land, the 
temporary use of land, the rights and other interests required to 
enable PPL to construct, operate and maintain the Project 
within a reasonable commercial timeframe. The inclusion of 
powers of compulsory acquisition in the draft Order is sought in 
order to ensure that this can be achieved.  The land and rights 
together with the land required for temporary use is no more 
than that is required to facilitate the Project, its construction and 
future maintenance.  The necessary powers, together with 
powers to suspend, override and extinguish rights and other 
interests in or over land, are contained in Part 3 and Part 5 of 
the draft Order which accompanies the Application.  
6.3 
Compulsory Acquisition of freehold   
6.3.1 
The intended purpose for which land is subject to proposed 
powers of compulsory acquisition in Article 17 of the draft Order 
is summarised in Table 1. This is described by reference to the 
Work Nos. set out in Schedule 1 to the draft Order and shown 
on the Works Plans (Document Reference 2.7) and by plot 
number as referenced in the Book of Reference and Land Plans 
(Sheets 1, 2, 4 and 5, Document References 4.3 and 2.6 
respectively). Table 1 should be read together with those 
documents.      
Table 12 
                                                      
2 With reference to Tables 1 - 4, the purpose of the 'Reasons for Acquisitions' column is not to identify the right(s) to be 
acquired.  These rights are already listed in the Book of Reference (Document Reference 4.3).  The intended purpose of 
this column is to provide the reasoning behind the acquisition of those rights, as well as referencing the relevant works 
packages relating to each numbered plot.  For a full description of the rights, please refer to the Book of Reference.   
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
39 
Plot 
No. 
Work 
No.3 
Reason for Acquisition 
Status of Negotiation 
1_MS 
1A 
Agricultural land forming 
part of White House Farm 
situated to the east of Eye 
Industrial Park and west of 
the National Grid Gas 
compound, Eye for the 
purpose of: 
1. up to 5 Gas Turbine 
Generators 
with 
a 
combined 
nominal 
gross electrical output 
of 50 - 299 MWe; and 
2. up to 5 exhaust gas 
emission flue stacks.  
An 
option 
agreement 
to 
purchase the land was signed 
on 19 April 2013 giving rights to 
PPL to acquire the freehold of 
plot 1_MS. 
1_MS 
1B 
Agricultural land forming 
part of White House Farm 
situated to the east of Eye 
Industrial Park and west of 
the National Grid Gas 
compound, Eye for the 
purpose of: 
1. an administration 
building;  
2. a store; 
3. a control 
room/office/workshop; 
4. telemetry apparatus; 
5. black start diesel 
generator; 
6. a raw/ fire water tank 
and demineralised 
water storage tank; and 
7. a natural gas receiving 
station and gas 
treatment compound 
An 
option 
agreement 
to 
purchase the land was signed 
on 19 April 2013 giving rights to 
PPL to acquire the freehold of 
plot 1_MS. 
                                                      
3 Reference to a Work Number means either the Work is within the Plot or the Plot is required in order to construct, 
operate and/or maintain the Work.  This applies to Tables 1, 2, 3 and 4.   
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
40 
Table 12 
Plot 
No. 
Work 
No.3 
Reason for Acquisition 
Status of Negotiation 
containing a PIG 
receiving facility; 
isolation valves, 
metering, heating, 
filtering, compression, 
pressure regulation 
equipment; electricity 
supply kiosk; and 
control and 
instrumentation kiosks.  
1_MS 
1C 
Agricultural land forming 
part of White House Farm 
situated to the east of Eye 
Industrial Park and west of 
the National Grid Gas 
compound, Eye for the 
purpose of: 
1. a switchyard / banking 
compound containing 
up to seven 
transformers, 
switchgear building and 
other plant required to 
manage the 
transmission of 
electricity.  
An 
option 
agreement 
to 
purchase the land was signed 
on 19 April 2013 giving rights to 
PPL to acquire the freehold of 
plot 1_MS. 
1_MS 
1D 
Agricultural land forming 
part of White House Farm 
situated to the east of Eye 
Industrial Park and west of 
the National Grid Gas 
compound, Eye for the 
purpose of: 
1. security infrastructure, 
including cameras, 
perimeter fencing and a 
gatehouse; 
2. site lighting 
infrastructure, including 
An 
option 
agreement 
to 
purchase the land was signed 
on 19 April 2013 giving rights to 
PPL to acquire the freehold of 
plot 1_MS. 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
41 
Table 12 
Plot 
No. 
Work 
No.3 
Reason for Acquisition 
Status of Negotiation 
perimeter lighting 
columns; 
3. internal roadways, car 
parking, pedestrian 
network, cycle parking, 
hardstanding and water 
treatment trailers; 
4. site drainage, 
attenuation pond and 
waste management 
infrastructure; 
5. electricity, water, 
wastewater and 
telecommunications and 
other services; 
6. landscaping including 
tree planting, fencing 
and other boundary 
treatments and 
ecological mitigation;  
7. high voltage and low 
voltage cabling, 
equipment and controls 
and associated 
telemetry and electrical 
protection auxiliary 
cabling; 
8. underground gas 
pipeline connection, 
associated telemetry 
and cathodic protection 
test / transformer 
rectifier unit; 
9. other ancillary 
equipment; and 
10. new means of accesses 
from Potash Lane 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
42 
Table 12 
Plot 
No. 
Work 
No.3 
Reason for Acquisition 
Status of Negotiation 
including permanent 
road surface, gates and 
fencing. 
1_MS 
2 
Agricultural land forming 
part of White House Farm 
situated to the east of Eye 
Industrial Park and west of 
the National Grid Gas 
compound, Eye for the 
purpose of: 
1. a maintenance 
compound including 
new hardstanding; 
2. landscaping including 
tree planting, fencing 
and other boundary 
treatments; and 
3. site drainage.  
An 
option 
agreement 
to 
purchase the land was signed 
on 19 April 2013 giving rights to 
PPL to acquire the freehold of 
plot 1_MS. 
1_MS 
4 
Agricultural land forming 
part of White House Farm 
situated to the east of Eye 
Industrial Park and west of 
the National Grid Gas 
compound, Eye for the 
purpose of: 
1. a new underground gas 
pipeline connection and 
telemetry cabling, 
approximately 1.7km in 
length connecting the 
natural gas receiving 
station and gas 
treatment compound in 
Work No. 1B to Work 
No. 3A; 
2. pipeline field marker 
posts and cathodic 
protection test/ 
An 
option 
agreement 
to 
purchase the land was signed 
on 19 April 2013 giving rights to 
PPL to acquire the freehold of 
plot 1_MS. 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
43 
Table 12 
Plot 
No. 
Work 
No.3 
Reason for Acquisition 
Status of Negotiation 
transformer rectifier 
unit; 
3. below ground drainage 
works; 
4. tree and hedge 
removal; and 
5. landscaping including 
tree planting, fencing 
and other boundary 
treatments and 
ecological mitigation.  
1_MS 
6 
Agricultural land forming 
part of White House Farm 
situated to the east of Eye 
Industrial Park and west of 
the National Grid Gas 
compound, Eye for the 
purpose of: 
1. an underground 400kV 
electrical cable circuit 
and associated 
telemetry and electrical 
protection auxiliary 
cabling, approximately 
1.6km in length; and 
2. joint bays in relation to 
Work No. 6a.  
An 
option 
agreement 
to 
purchase the land was signed 
on 19 April 2013 giving rights to 
PPL to acquire the freehold of 
plot 1_MS. 
7_GR 
3A 
Part of agricultural land 
forming part of White House 
Farm 
situated 
north 
of 
Castleton Way and to the 
east of the access road 
leading from Castleton Way 
to 
the 
disused 
runway 
complex at Eye Airfield, Eye 
for the purpose of: 
1. an 
above 
ground 
A fully termed offer to acquire 
the land was made by PPL to 
the owner on 21 March 2014.  
The 
landowner‟s 
agent 
responded in detailed terms on 
11th 
June 
2014 
and 
PPL 
responded on 2nd July 2014. 
Where clarification to the PPL 
proposal has been sought it is 
expected that agreement to the 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
44 
Table 12 
Plot 
No. 
Work 
No.3 
Reason for Acquisition 
Status of Negotiation 
installation 
(consisting 
of a minimum offtake 
connection compound) 
containing a minimum 
offtake 
connection 
comprising 
remotely 
operable valves, control 
and 
instrumentation 
kiosks 
and 
electrical 
supply kiosks; and a 
PIG facility, comprising 
a PIG launching facility, 
emergency 
control 
valves, isolation valves, 
control 
and 
instrumentation kiosks, 
and electricity supply 
kiosks;  
2. security 
infrastructure, 
including 
cameras, 
lighting 
(including 
perimeter 
lighting 
columns) and perimeter 
fencing; 
3. site drainage and waste 
management 
infrastructure; 
4. electricity 
and 
telecommunications 
connections and other 
services; 
5. below ground sacrificial 
anode pit; 
6. landscaping 
including 
tree planting, fencing 
and 
other 
boundary 
treatments 
and 
ecological 
mitigation; 
and 
terms will be reached early this 
summer. 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
45 
Table 12 
Plot 
No. 
Work 
No.3 
Reason for Acquisition 
Status of Negotiation 
7. other 
ancillary 
equipment.  
7_GR 
3B 
Part of agricultural land 
forming part of White House 
Farm 
situated 
north 
of 
Castleton Way and to the 
east of the access road 
leading from Castleton Way 
to 
the 
disused 
runway 
complex at Eye Airfield, Eye 
for the purpose of: 
1. a new means of access 
between Potash Lane 
and numbered work 3A, 
including 
permanent 
road 
surface, 
gates, 
fencing, drainage and 
landscaping.  
A fully termed offer to acquire 
the land was made by PPL to 
the owner on 21 March 2014.  
The 
landowner‟s 
agent 
responded in detailed terms on 
11th 
June 
2014 
and 
PPL 
responded on 2nd July 2014. 
Where clarification to the PPL 
proposal has been sought it is 
expected that agreement to the 
terms will be reached early this 
summer. 
7_GR 
4 
Part of agricultural land 
forming part of White House 
Farm 
situated 
north 
of 
Castleton Way and to the 
east of the access road 
leading from Castleton Way 
to 
the 
disused 
runway 
complex at Eye Airfield, Eye 
for the purpose of: 
1. a new underground gas 
pipeline connection and 
telemetry 
cabling, 
approximately 1.7km in 
length connecting the 
natural gas receiving 
station 
and 
gas 
treatment compound in 
Work No. 1B to Work 
No. 3A; 
2. pipeline 
field 
marker 
posts 
and 
cathodic 
A fully termed offer to acquire 
the land was made by PPL to 
the owner on 21 March 2014.  
The 
landowner‟s 
agent 
responded in detailed terms on 
11th 
June 
2014 
and 
PPL 
responded on 2nd July 2014. 
Where clarification to the PPL 
proposal has been sought it is 
expected that agreement to the 
terms will be reached early this 
summer. 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
46 
Table 12 
Plot 
No. 
Work 
No.3 
Reason for Acquisition 
Status of Negotiation 
protection 
test/ 
transformer 
rectifier 
unit; 
3. below ground drainage 
works; 
4. tree 
and 
hedge 
removal; and 
5. landscaping 
including 
tree planting, fencing 
and 
other 
boundary 
treatments 
and 
ecological mitigation.  
14_ER 5a, 
5c, 
5d, 
5e 
and 
5f 
Part of agricultural land 
forming part of Vine Farm 
situated to the north of Vine 
Farm, west of Leys Lane 
and south of The Leys, Eye 
for the purpose of: 
1. 400kV substation; 
2. underground 
high 
voltage electrical cables 
and 
associated 
telemetry and electrical 
protection 
auxiliary 
cabling; 
3. security 
infrastructure 
including 
perimeter 
fencing 
with 
gates, 
security cameras and 
site lighting; 
4. landscaping 
including 
bunds, 
tree 
planting, 
fencing 
and 
other 
boundary 
treatments 
and 
ecological 
mitigation; and  
Discussions and a meeting with 
the owners took place in March 
2014 and a fully termed offer 
was made on 21 March 2014.  
An 
initial 
and 
increased 
undertaking 
to 
owner‟s 
solicitor‟s costs has been given 
most recently on 9th June 2014. 
Initial questions were sent from 
the owner‟s solicitors on 22nd 
May 2014 and a full response 
made on 9th June 2014. A full 
set of comments on the terms 
of the offer is expected shortly. 
Discussions are ongoing. 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
47 
Table 12 
Plot 
No. 
Work 
No.3 
Reason for Acquisition 
Status of Negotiation 
5. internal roadways, car 
parking, 
pedestrian 
network 
and 
hardstanding 
for 
planned maintenance.  
15_ER 5a, 
5c, 
5d, 
5e 
and 
5f 
Part of agricultural land 
forming part of Red House 
Farm situated to the north of 
Vine Farm, west of Leys 
Lane and south of The 
Leys, Eye for the purpose 
of: 
1. 400kV substation; 
2. 
underground 
high 
voltage electrical cables 
and 
associated 
telemetry and electrical 
protection 
auxiliary 
cabling; 
3. security 
infrastructure 
including 
perimeter 
fencing 
with 
gates, 
security cameras and 
site lighting; 
4. landscaping 
including 
bunds, 
tree 
planting, 
fencing 
and 
other 
boundary 
treatments 
and 
ecological 
mitigation; and  
5. internal roadways, car 
parking, 
pedestrian 
network 
and 
hardstanding 
for 
planned maintenance.  
Discussions and a meeting with 
the owners took place in March 
2014 and a fully termed offer 
was made on 21 March 2014.  
An undertaking for the costs of 
the 
owner‟s 
agents 
and 
solicitors was given in March 
and initial comments on behalf 
of the owners are expected 
shortly. 
16_ER 5a, 
5c, 
5d, 
Part of agricultural land 
forming part of Vine Farm 
situated to the north of Vine 
Discussions and a meeting with 
the owners took place in March 
2014 and a fully termed offer 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
48 
Table 12 
Plot 
No. 
Work 
No.3 
Reason for Acquisition 
Status of Negotiation 
5e 
and 
5f 
Farm, west of Leys Lane 
and south of The Leys, Eye 
for the purpose of: 
1. 400kV substation; 
2. underground 
high 
voltage electrical cables 
and 
associated 
telemetry and electrical 
protection 
auxiliary 
cabling; 
3. security 
infrastructure 
including 
perimeter 
fencing 
with 
gates, 
security cameras and 
site lighting; 
4. landscaping 
including 
bunds, 
tree 
planting, 
fencing 
and 
other 
boundary 
treatments 
and 
ecological 
mitigation; and  
5. internal roadways, car 
parking, 
pedestrian 
network 
and 
hardstanding 
for 
planned maintenance.  
was made on 21 March 2014.  
An 
initial 
and 
increased 
undertaking 
to 
owner‟s 
solicitor‟s costs has been given 
most recently on 9th June 2014. 
Initial questions were sent from 
the owner‟s solicitors on 22nd 
May 2014 and a full response 
made on 9th June 2014. A full 
set of comments on the terms 
of the offer is expected shortly.    
Discussions are ongoing. 
17_ER 5a, 
5c, 
5d, 
5e 
and 
5f 
Part of agricultural land 
forming part of Vine Farm 
situated to the north of Vine 
Farm, west of Leys Lane 
and south of The Leys, Eye 
for the purpose of: 
1. 400kV substation; 
2. underground 
high 
voltage electrical cables 
and 
associated 
telemetry and electrical 
Discussions and a meeting with 
the owners took place in March 
2014 and a fully termed offer 
was made on 21 March 2014.  
An 
initial 
and 
increased 
undertaking 
to 
owner‟s 
solicitor‟s costs has been given 
most recently on 9th June 2014. 
Initial questions were sent from 
the owner‟s solicitors on 22nd 
May 2014 and a full response 
made on 9th June 2014. A full 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
49 
Table 12 
Plot 
No. 
Work 
No.3 
Reason for Acquisition 
Status of Negotiation 
protection 
auxiliary 
cabling; 
3. security 
infrastructure 
including 
perimeter 
fencing 
with 
gates, 
security cameras and 
site lighting; 
4. landscaping 
including 
bunds, 
tree 
planting, 
fencing 
and 
other 
boundary 
treatments 
and 
ecological 
mitigation; and  
5. internal roadways, car 
parking, 
pedestrian 
network 
and 
hardstanding 
for 
planned maintenance.  
set of comments on the terms 
of the offer is expected shortly.   
Discussions are ongoing. 
19_ER 5b, 
5c, 
5d 
and 
5e 
Part of agricultural land 
forming part of Vine Farm 
situated north of Vine Farm, 
west of Leys Lane and 
south west of The Leys, Eye 
for the purpose of: 
1. 400kV 
cable 
sealing 
end compound; 
2. underground 
high 
voltage electrical cables 
and 
associated 
telemetry and electrical 
protection 
auxiliary 
cabling; 
3. security 
infrastructure 
including 
perimeter 
fencing 
with 
gates, 
security cameras and 
site lighting; and 
Discussions and a meeting with 
the owners took place in March 
2014 and a fully termed offer 
was made on 21 March 2014.  
An 
initial 
and 
increased 
undertaking 
to 
owner‟s 
solicitor‟s costs has been given 
most recently on 9th June 2014. 
Initial questions were sent from 
the owner‟s solicitors on 22nd 
May 2014 and a full response 
made on 9th June 2014. A full 
set of comments on the terms 
of the offer is expected shortly 
Discussions are ongoing. 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
50 
Table 12 
Plot 
No. 
Work 
No.3 
Reason for Acquisition 
Status of Negotiation 
4. landscaping 
including 
bunds, 
tree 
planting, 
fencing 
and 
other 
boundary 
treatments 
and 
ecological 
mitigation.  
1_JW 
7 
Land forming part of White 
House Farm between the 
A140 
and 
Old 
Norwich 
Road situated to the north of 
White House Farm, Eye for 
the purpose of: 
1. new means of access 
between Work No. 5 
and the A140 including 
road widening, new 
turning lane, signing 
and road markings 
works, permanent road 
surface, gates, fencing, 
drainage, infilling, 
landscaping and tree 
and hedge removal and 
other incidental works.  
A fully termed offer to acquire 
the land was made by PPL to 
the owner on 21 March 2014. 
The 
landowner‟s 
agent 
responded in detailed terms on 
11th 
June 
2014 
and 
PPL 
responded on 2nd July 2014. 
Where clarification to the PPL 
proposal has been sought it is 
expected that agreement to the 
terms will be reached early this 
summer 
2_JW 
7 
Land forming part of White 
House Farm between the 
A140 
and 
Old 
Norwich 
Road situated to the north of 
White House Farm, Eye for 
the purpose of: 
1. new means of access 
between Work No. 5 
and the A140 including 
road 
widening, 
new 
turning 
lane, 
signing 
and 
road 
markings 
works, permanent road 
surface, gates, fencing, 
drainage, 
infilling, 
A fully termed offer to acquire 
the land was made by PPL to 
the owner on 21 March 2014.  
The 
landowner‟s 
agent 
responded in detailed terms on 
11th 
June 
2014 
and 
PPL 
responded on 2nd July 2014. 
Where clarification to the PPL 
proposal has been sought it is 
expected that agreement to the 
terms will be reached early this 
summer. 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
51 
Table 12 
Plot 
No. 
Work 
No.3 
Reason for Acquisition 
Status of Negotiation 
landscaping and tree 
and hedge removal and 
other incidental works.  
 
6.4 
Compulsory Acquisition of / Creation of New Rights         
6.4.1 
A number of rights are sought to facilitate PPL and all persons 
authorised on its behalf to construct, use and maintain at all 
times both, during and post construction periods, the Gas 
Connection and Electrical Connection (such rights are 
described in the Book of Reference in Sections 2 and 3 
(Document Reference 4.3). Routes have been chosen to avoid 
adverse impacts on land not owned by PPL. 
6.4.2 
The intended purpose for which new rights are sought under 
Article 20 of the draft Order, is summarised in Table 2 (the table 
also highlights where a temporary use of the land may be 
required to facilitate the works associated with the new right 
being acquired).  This is described by reference to the Work 
Nos. set out in Schedule 1 to the draft Order and shown on the 
Works Plan (Document Reference 2.7) and by plot number as 
referenced in the Book of Reference and Land Plans (Sheets 2, 
3, 4 and 5, Document References 4.3 and 2.6 respectively) 
Table 2 should be read together with those documents. 
TABLE 2 
Plot 
No. 
Work 
No. 
Reason for Acquisition 
Status of Negotiation 
1_GR 
4 
Part of public footpath 
numbered W-583/009/0 
situated to the east of 
Oaksmere Business Park, 
Eye  for:    
1. the right to: 
a. construct, install, 
use and maintain a 
new underground 
gas pipeline 
connection and 
An 
option 
agreement 
to 
purchase the land was signed 
on 19 April 2013 giving rights to 
PPL to acquire inter alia the 
right to an easement over 
1_GR. 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
52 
TABLE 2 
Plot 
No. 
Work 
No. 
Reason for Acquisition 
Status of Negotiation 
telemetry cabling, 
approximately 
1.7km in length 
connecting the 
natural gas 
receiving station 
and gas treatment 
compound in Work 
No. 1B to Work No. 
3A; 
b. construct, install, 
use and maintain 
pipeline field marker 
posts and cathodic 
protection test/ 
transformer rectifier 
unit; 
c. construct, install, 
use and maintain 
below ground 
drainage works; 
d. carry out tree and 
hedge removal; and 
e. carry out and 
maintain 
landscaping 
including tree 
planting, fencing 
and other boundary 
treatments and 
ecological 
mitigation.  
2. the temporary use for 
the purpose of 
constructing and 
installing the above. 
2_GR 
4 
Land forming part of the 
disused runway complex at 
Eye Airfield situated to the 
An 
option 
agreement 
to 
purchase the land was signed 
on 19 April 2013 giving rights to 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
53 
TABLE 2 
Plot 
No. 
Work 
No. 
Reason for Acquisition 
Status of Negotiation 
east of Oaksmere Business 
Park, Eye  for: 
1. the right to: 
a. construct, install, 
use and maintain a 
new underground 
gas pipeline 
connection and 
telemetry cabling, 
approximately 
1.7km in length 
connecting the 
natural gas 
receiving station 
and gas treatment 
compound in Work 
No. 1B to Work No. 
3A; 
b. construct, install, 
use and maintain 
pipeline field marker 
posts and cathodic 
protection test/ 
transformer rectifier 
unit; 
c. construct, install, 
use and maintain 
below ground 
drainage works; 
d. carry out tree and 
hedge removal; and 
e. carry out and 
maintain 
landscaping 
including tree 
planting, fencing 
and other boundary 
treatments and 
ecological 
PPL to acquire inter alia the 
right to an easement over 
2_GR. 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
54 
TABLE 2 
Plot 
No. 
Work 
No. 
Reason for Acquisition 
Status of Negotiation 
mitigation.  
2. the temporary use 
(including the passing 
and re-passing of 
vehicles) for the 
purpose of constructing 
and installing the above. 
3_GR 
4 
Land forming part of the 
private access road known 
as Potash Lane situated to 
the east of Oaksmere 
Business Park, Eye for: 
1. the right to: 
a. construct, install, 
use and maintain a 
new underground 
gas pipeline 
connection and 
telemetry cabling, 
approximately 
1.7km in length 
connecting the 
natural gas 
receiving station 
and gas treatment 
compound in Work 
No. 1B to Work No. 
3A; 
b. construct, install, 
use and maintain 
pipeline field marker 
posts and cathodic 
protection test/ 
transformer rectifier 
unit; 
c. construct, install, 
use and maintain 
below ground 
An 
option 
agreement 
to 
purchase the land was signed 
on 19 April 2013 giving rights to 
PPL to acquire inter alia the 
right to an easement over 
3_GR. 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
55 
TABLE 2 
Plot 
No. 
Work 
No. 
Reason for Acquisition 
Status of Negotiation 
drainage works; 
d. carry out tree and 
hedge removal; and 
e. carry out and 
maintain 
landscaping 
including tree 
planting, fencing 
and other boundary 
treatments and 
ecological 
mitigation.    
2. the temporary use 
(including the passing 
and re-passing of 
vehicles) for the 
purpose of constructing 
and installing the above. 
4_GR 
4 
Part of agricultural land, part 
of wooded area and part of 
an access track forming part 
of White House Farm 
situated to the south of 
Oaksmere Business Park, 
east of the A140 and north 
of Castleton Way, Eye  for: 
1. the right to: 
a. construct, install, 
use and maintain a 
new underground 
gas pipeline 
connection and 
telemetry cabling, 
approximately 
1.7km in length 
connecting the 
natural gas 
receiving station 
and gas treatment 
An 
option 
agreement 
to 
purchase the land was signed 
on 19 April 2013 giving rights to 
PPL to acquire inter alia the 
right to an easement over 
4_GR. 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
56 
TABLE 2 
Plot 
No. 
Work 
No. 
Reason for Acquisition 
Status of Negotiation 
compound in Work 
No. 1B to Work No. 
3A; 
b. construct, install, 
use and maintain 
pipeline field marker 
posts and cathodic 
protection test/ 
transformer rectifier 
unit; 
c. construct, install, 
use and maintain 
below ground 
drainage works; 
d. carry out tree and 
hedge removal; and 
e. carry out and 
maintain 
landscaping 
including tree 
planting, fencing 
and other boundary 
treatments and 
ecological 
mitigation.  
2. the temporary use for 
the purpose of 
constructing and 
installing the above. 
5_GR 
4 
Part of agricultural land, part 
of wooded area and part of 
an access track forming part 
of White House Farm 
situated to the south of 
Oaksmere Business Park, 
east of the A140 and north 
of Castleton Way, Eye for: 
A fully termed offer to acquire 
the necessary rights in the 
subsoil was made by PPL to the 
owner on 21 March 2014.  
The 
landowner‟s 
agent 
responded in detailed terms on 
11th 
June 
2014 
and 
PPL 
responded on 2nd July 2014. 
Where clarification to the PPL 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
57 
TABLE 2 
Plot 
No. 
Work 
No. 
Reason for Acquisition 
Status of Negotiation 
1. the right to: 
a. construct, install, 
use and maintain a 
new underground 
gas pipeline 
connection and 
telemetry cabling, 
approximately 
1.7km in length 
connecting the 
natural gas 
receiving station 
and gas treatment 
compound in Work 
No. 1B to Work No. 
3A; 
b. construct, install, 
use and maintain 
pipeline field marker 
posts and cathodic 
protection test/ 
transformer rectifier 
unit; 
c. construct, install, 
use and maintain 
below ground 
drainage works; 
d. carry out tree and 
hedge removal; and 
e. carry out and 
maintain 
landscaping 
including tree 
planting, fencing 
and other boundary 
treatments and 
ecological 
mitigation.  
2. the temporary use for 
proposal has been sought it is 
expected that agreement to the 
terms will be reached early this 
summer. 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
58 
TABLE 2 
Plot 
No. 
Work 
No. 
Reason for Acquisition 
Status of Negotiation 
the purpose of 
constructing and 
installing the above. 
6_GR 
3B 
Land forming part of the 
private access road known 
as Potash Lane leading 
from Castleton Way to the 
disused runway complex at 
Eye Airfield, Eye for: 
1. the right to a new 
means of access 
between Potash Lane 
and numbered work 3A, 
including permanent 
road surface, gates, 
fencing, drainage and 
landscaping; and 
2. the temporary use for 
the purpose of 
constructing and 
installing the above. 
A fully termed offer to acquire 
the necessary rights in the 
subsoil was made by PPL to the 
owner on 21 March 2014.  
The 
landowner‟s 
agent 
responded in detailed terms on 
11th 
June 
2014 
and 
PPL 
responded on 2nd July 2014. 
Where clarification to the PPL 
proposal has been sought it is 
expected that agreement to the 
terms will be reached early this 
summer. 
6_GR 
4 
Land forming part of the 
private access road known 
as Potash Lane leading 
from Castleton Way to the 
disused runway complex at 
Eye Airfield, Eye for: 
1. the right to: 
a. construct, install, 
use and maintain a 
new underground 
gas pipeline 
connection and 
telemetry cabling, 
approximately 
1.7km in length 
connecting the 
natural gas 
receiving station 
A fully termed offer to acquire 
the necessary rights in the 
subsoil was made by PPL to the 
owner on 21 March 2014.  
The 
landowner‟s 
agent 
responded in detailed terms on 
11th 
June 
2014 
and 
PPL 
responded on 2nd July 2014. 
Where clarification to the PPL 
proposal has been sought it is 
expected that agreement to the 
terms will be reached early this 
summer. 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
59 
TABLE 2 
Plot 
No. 
Work 
No. 
Reason for Acquisition 
Status of Negotiation 
and gas treatment 
compound in Work 
No. 1B to Work No. 
3A; and 
b. construct, install, 
use and maintain 
pipeline field marker 
posts and cathodic 
protection test/ 
transformer rectifier 
unit; 
c. construct, install, 
use and maintain 
below ground 
drainage works; 
d. carry out tree and 
hedge removal; and 
e. carry out and 
maintain 
landscaping 
including tree 
planting, fencing 
and other boundary 
treatments and 
ecological 
mitigation.  
2. the temporary use for 
the purpose of 
constructing and 
installing the above. 
1_ER 
6 
Part of public footpath 
numbered W-583/009/0 
situated to the east of 
Oaksmere Business Park 
and to the south west of the 
National Grid Gas 
compound, Eye for: 
1. the right to construct, 
An 
option 
agreement 
to 
purchase the land was signed 
on 19 April 2013 giving rights to 
PPL to acquire inter alia the 
right to an easement over 
1_ER. 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
60 
TABLE 2 
Plot 
No. 
Work 
No. 
Reason for Acquisition 
Status of Negotiation 
install, use and maintain 
an underground 400kV 
electrical cable circuit 
and associated 
telemetry and electrical 
protection auxiliary 
cabling, approximately 
1.6km in length joint 
bays in relation to Work 
No. 6a;  
2. the temporary use for 
the purpose of 
constructing and 
installing the above. 
2_ER 
6 
Land forming part of the 
disused runway complex at 
Eye Airfield situated to the 
east of Oaksmere Business 
Park and to the south west 
of the National Grid Gas 
compound, Eye for the 
purpose of: 
1. the right to construct, 
install, use and maintain 
an underground 400kV 
electrical cable circuit 
and associated 
telemetry and electrical 
protection auxiliary 
cabling, approximately 
1.6km in length joint 
bays in relation to Work 
No. 6a; and 
2. the temporary use 
(including the passing 
and re-passing of 
vehicles) for the 
purpose of constructing 
and installing the above. 
An 
option 
agreement 
to 
purchase the land was signed 
on 19 April 2013 giving rights to 
PPL to acquire inter alia the 
right to an easement over 
2_ER.. 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
61 
TABLE 2 
Plot 
No. 
Work 
No. 
Reason for Acquisition 
Status of Negotiation 
3_ER 
6 
Land forming part of the 
private access road known 
as Potash Lane situated to 
the east of Oaksmere 
Business Park, Eye for: 
1. the right to construct, 
install, use and maintain 
an underground 400kV 
electrical cable circuit 
and associated 
telemetry and electrical 
protection auxiliary 
cabling, approximately 
1.6km in length joint 
bays in relation to Work 
No. 6a; and 
2. the temporary use for 
the purpose of 
constructing and 
installing the above. 
An 
option 
agreement 
to 
purchase the land was signed 
on 19 April 2013 giving rights to 
PPL to acquire inter alia the 
right to an easement over 
3_ER. 
4_ER 
6 
Part of agricultural land and 
part of access track situated 
to the south of Oaksmere 
Business Park and south of 
White House Farm 
buildings, Eye for: 
1. the right to construct, 
install, use and maintain 
an underground 400kV 
electrical cable circuit 
and associated 
telemetry and electrical 
protection auxiliary 
cabling, approximately 
1.6km in length joint 
bays in relation to Work 
No. 6a; and 
2. the temporary use for 
the purpose of 
In respect of part of this plot, an 
option agreement to purchase 
the land was signed on 19 April 
2013 giving rights to PPL to 
acquire the freehold of the 
Power Generation Plant Site. 
In respect of the remaining part 
of this plot, a fully termed offer 
to acquire the necessary rights 
in the subsoil was made by PPL 
to the owner on 21 March 2014. 
Discussions are ongoing. 
The 
landowner‟s 
agent 
responded in detailed terms on 
11th 
June 
2014 
and 
PPL 
responded on 2nd July 2014. 
Where clarification to the PPL 
proposal has been sought it is 
expected that agreement to the 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
62 
TABLE 2 
Plot 
No. 
Work 
No. 
Reason for Acquisition 
Status of Negotiation 
constructing and 
installing the above. 
terms will be reached early this 
summer. 
5_ER 
6 
Land forming part of public 
adopted highway known as 
the A140 situated to the 
north of White House Farm, 
Eye for: 
1. the right to construct, 
install, use and maintain 
an underground 400kV 
electrical cable circuit 
and associated 
telemetry and electrical 
protection auxiliary 
cabling, approximately 
1.6km in length joint 
bays in relation to Work 
No. 6a; and 
2. the temporary use for 
the purpose of 
constructing and 
installing the above. 
A fully termed offer to acquire 
the necessary rights in the 
subsoil was made by PPL to the 
owner on 21 March 2014.  
The 
landowner‟s 
agent 
responded in detailed terms on 
11th 
June 
2014 
and 
PPL 
responded on 2nd July 2014. 
Where clarification to the PPL 
proposal has been sought it is 
expected that agreement to the 
terms will be reached early this 
summer. 
6_ER 
6 
Land forming part of White 
House Farm situated 
between the A140 and Old 
Norwich Road and north of 
White House Farm, Eye for: 
1. the right to construct, 
install, use and maintain 
an underground 400kV 
electrical cable circuit 
and associated 
telemetry and electrical 
protection auxiliary 
cabling, approximately 
1.6km in length joint 
bays in relation to Work 
No. 6a; and 
2. the temporary use for 
A fully termed offer to acquire 
the necessary rights in the 
subsoil was made by PPL to the 
owner on 21 March 2014.. 
The 
landowner‟s 
agent 
responded in detailed terms on 
11th 
June 
2014 
and 
PPL 
responded on 2nd July 2014. 
Where clarification to the PPL 
proposal has been sought it is 
expected that agreement to the 
terms will be reached early this 
summer. 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
63 
TABLE 2 
Plot 
No. 
Work 
No. 
Reason for Acquisition 
Status of Negotiation 
the purpose of 
constructing and 
installing the above. 
7_ER 
6 
Land forming part of the 
eastern half width of public 
adopted highway known as 
Old Norwich Road situated 
to the north of White House 
Farm, Eye for: 
1. the right to construct, 
install, use and maintain 
an underground 400kV 
electrical cable circuit 
and associated 
telemetry and electrical 
protection auxiliary 
cabling, approximately 
1.6km in length joint 
bays in relation to Work 
No. 6a; and 
2. the temporary use for 
the purpose of 
constructing and 
installing the above. 
A fully termed offer to acquire 
the necessary rights in the 
subsoil was made by PPL to the 
owner on 21 March 2014.  
The 
landowner‟s 
agent 
responded in detailed terms on 
11th 
June 
2014 
and 
PPL 
responded on 2nd July 2014. 
Where clarification to the PPL 
proposal has been sought it is 
expected that agreement to the 
terms will be reached early this 
summer. 
8_ER 
6 
Land forming part of the 
western half width of public 
adopted highway known as 
Old Norwich Road situated 
to the north of White House 
Farm, Eye for: 
1. the right to construct, 
install, use and maintain 
an underground 400kV 
electrical cable circuit 
and associated 
telemetry and electrical 
protection auxiliary 
cabling, approximately 
1.6km in length joint 
Discussions and a meeting with 
the owners took place in March 
2014 and a fully termed offer to 
acquire the necessary rights in 
the subsoil was made by PPL to 
the owner on 21 March 2014.  
An undertaking for the costs of 
the 
owner‟s 
agents 
and 
solicitors was given in March 
and initial comments on behalf 
of the owners are expected 
shortly. 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
64 
TABLE 2 
Plot 
No. 
Work 
No. 
Reason for Acquisition 
Status of Negotiation 
bays in relation to Work 
No. 6a; and 
2. the temporary use for 
the purpose of 
constructing and 
installing the above. 
9_ER 
6 
Part of agricultural land 
forming part of Red House 
Farm situated to the west of 
Old Norwich Road and 
south west of Yaxley Lake, 
Eye for: 
1. the right to construct, 
install, use and maintain 
an underground 400kV 
electrical cable circuit 
and associated 
telemetry and electrical 
protection auxiliary 
cabling, approximately 
1.6km in length joint 
bays in relation to Work 
No. 6a; and 
2. the temporary use for 
the purpose of 
constructing and 
installing the above. 
Discussions and a meeting with 
the owners took place in March 
2014 and a fully termed offer to 
acquire the necessary rights in 
the subsoil was made by PPL to 
the owner on 21 March 2014.  
An undertaking for the costs of 
the 
owner‟s 
agents 
and 
solicitors was given in March 
and initial comments on behalf 
of the owners are expected 
shortly. 
10_ER 6 
Part of agricultural land 
forming part of Red House 
Farm situated to the west of 
Yaxley Lake and east of 
Leys Lane, Eye for: 
1. the right to construct, 
install, use and maintain 
an underground 400kV 
electrical cable circuit 
and associated 
telemetry and electrical 
protection auxiliary 
Discussions and a meeting with 
the owners took place in March 
2014 and a fully termed offer to 
acquire the necessary rights in 
the subsoil was made by PPL to 
the owner on 21 March 2014.  
An undertaking for the costs of 
the 
owner‟s 
agents 
and 
solicitors was given in March 
and initial comments on behalf 
of the owners are expected 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
65 
TABLE 2 
Plot 
No. 
Work 
No. 
Reason for Acquisition 
Status of Negotiation 
cabling, approximately 
1.6km in length joint 
bays in relation to Work 
No. 6a; and 
2. the temporary use for 
the purpose of 
constructing and 
installing the above. 
shortly. 
10_ER 7 
Part of agricultural land 
forming part of Red House 
Farm situated to the west of 
Yaxley Lake and east of 
Leys Lane, Eye for: 
1.  the right to construct, 
install, use and maintain 
a new means of access 
between Work No. 5 
and the A140 including 
road widening, new 
turning lane, signing 
and road markings 
works, permanent road 
surface, gates, fencing, 
drainage, infilling, 
landscaping and tree 
and hedge removal and 
other incidental works; 
and 
2.  the temporary use for 
the purpose of 
constructing and 
installing the above. 
Discussions and a meeting with 
the owners took place in March 
2014 and a fully termed offer to 
acquire the necessary rights in 
the subsoil was made by PPL to 
the owner on 21 March 2014. 
An undertaking for the costs of 
the 
owner‟s 
agents 
and 
solicitors was given in March 
and initial comments on behalf 
of the owners are expected 
shortly. 
11_ER 6 
Land forming part of the 
eastern half width of public 
adopted highway known as 
Leys Lane, Eye for: 
1. the right to construct, 
Discussions and a meeting with 
the owners took place in March 
2014 and a fully termed offer to 
acquire the necessary rights in 
the subsoil was made by PPL to 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
66 
TABLE 2 
Plot 
No. 
Work 
No. 
Reason for Acquisition 
Status of Negotiation 
install, use and maintain 
an underground 400kV 
electrical cable circuit 
and associated 
telemetry and electrical 
protection auxiliary 
cabling, approximately 
1.6km in length joint 
bays in relation to Work 
No. 6a; and 
2. the temporary use for 
the purpose of 
constructing and 
installing the above. 
the owner on 21 March 2014.  
An undertaking for the costs of 
the 
owner‟s 
agents 
and 
solicitors was given in March 
and initial comments on behalf 
of the owners are expected 
shortly. 
11_ER 7 
Land forming part of the 
eastern half width of public 
adopted highway known as 
Leys Lane, Eye for: 
1.  the right to construct, 
install, use and maintain 
a new means of access 
between Work No. 5 
and the A140 including 
road widening, new 
turning lane, signing 
and road markings 
works, permanent road 
surface, gates, fencing, 
drainage, infilling, 
landscaping and tree 
and hedge removal and 
other incidental works; 
and 
2.  the temporary use for 
the purpose of 
constructing and 
installing the above. 
Discussions and a meeting with 
the owners took place in March 
2014 and a fully termed offer to 
acquire the necessary rights in 
the subsoil was made by PPL to 
the owner on 21 March 2014.  
An undertaking for the costs of 
the 
owner‟s 
agents 
and 
solicitors was given in March 
and initial comments on behalf 
of the owners are expected 
shortly. 
12_ER 6 
Land forming part of the 
western half width of public 
Discussions and a meeting with 
the owners took place in March 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
67 
TABLE 2 
Plot 
No. 
Work 
No. 
Reason for Acquisition 
Status of Negotiation 
adopted highway known as 
Leys Lane, Eye for: 
1. the right to construct, 
install, use and maintain 
an underground 400kV 
electrical cable circuit 
and associated 
telemetry and electrical 
protection auxiliary 
cabling, approximately 
1.6km in length joint 
bays in relation to Work 
No. 6a; and 
2. the temporary use for 
the purpose of 
constructing and 
installing the above. 
2014 and a fully termed offer to 
acquire the necessary rights in 
the subsoil was made by PPL to 
the owner on 21 March 2014. 
An 
initial 
and 
increased 
undertaking 
to 
owner‟s 
solicitor‟s costs has been given 
most recently on 9th June 2014. 
Initial questions were sent from 
the owner‟s solicitors on 22nd 
May 2014 and a full response 
made on 9th June 2014. A full 
set of comments on the terms 
of the offer is expected shortly. 
Discussions are ongoing.   
12_ER 7 
Land forming part of the 
western half width of public 
adopted highway known as 
Leys Lane, Eye for: 
1.  the right to construct, 
install, use and maintain 
a new means of access 
between Work No. 5 
and the A140 including 
road widening, new 
turning lane, signing 
and road markings 
works, permanent road 
surface, gates, fencing, 
drainage, infilling, 
landscaping and tree 
and hedge removal and 
other incidental works; 
and 
2.  the temporary use for 
the purpose of 
constructing and 
Discussions and a meeting with 
the owners took place in March 
2014 and a fully termed offer to 
acquire the necessary rights in 
the subsoil was made by PPL to 
the owner on 21 March 2014.  
An 
initial 
and 
increased 
undertaking 
to 
owner‟s 
solicitor‟s costs has been given 
most recently on 9th June 2014. 
Initial questions were sent from 
the owner‟s solicitors on 22nd 
May 2014 and a full response 
made on 9th June 2014. A full 
set of comments on the terms 
of the offer is expected shortly. 
Discussions are ongoing.   
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
68 
TABLE 2 
Plot 
No. 
Work 
No. 
Reason for Acquisition 
Status of Negotiation 
installing the above. 
13_ER 6 
Part of agricultural land 
forming part of Vine Farm 
situated to the north of Vine 
Farm and west of Leys 
Lane, Eye for: 
1. the right to construct, 
install, use and maintain 
an underground 400kV 
electrical cable circuit 
and associated 
telemetry and electrical 
protection auxiliary 
cabling, approximately 
1.6km in length joint 
bays in relation to Work 
No. 6a; and 
2. the temporary use for 
the purpose of 
constructing and 
installing the above. 
Discussions and a meeting with 
the owners took place in March 
2014 and a fully termed offer to 
acquire the necessary rights in 
the subsoil was made by PPL to 
the owner on 21 March 2014.  
An 
initial 
and 
increased 
undertaking 
to 
owner‟s 
solicitor‟s costs has been given 
most recently on 9th June 2014. 
Initial questions were sent from 
the owner‟s solicitors on 22nd 
May 2014 and a full response 
made on 9th June 2014. A full 
set of comments on the terms 
of the offer is expected shortly. 
Discussions are ongoing.    
13_ER 7 
Part of agricultural land 
forming part of Vine Farm 
situated to the north of Vine 
Farm and west of Leys 
Lane, Eye for: 
1.  the right to construct, 
install, use and maintain 
a new means of access 
between Work No. 5 
and the A140 including 
road widening, new 
turning lane, signing 
and road markings 
works, permanent road 
surface, gates, fencing, 
drainage, infilling, 
landscaping and tree 
and hedge removal and 
Discussions and a meeting with 
the owners took place in March 
2014 and a fully termed offer to 
acquire the necessary rights in 
the subsoil was made by PPL to 
the owner on 21 March 2014.  
An 
initial 
and 
increased 
undertaking 
to 
owner‟s 
solicitor‟s costs has been given 
most recently on 9th June 2014. 
Initial questions were sent from 
the owner‟s solicitors on 22nd 
May 2014 and a full response 
made on 9th June 2014. A full 
set of comments on the terms 
of the offer is expected shortly. 
Discussions are ongoing.    
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
69 
TABLE 2 
Plot 
No. 
Work 
No. 
Reason for Acquisition 
Status of Negotiation 
other incidental works; 
and 
2.  the temporary use for 
the purpose of 
constructing and 
installing the above. 
18_ER 5c 
Part of agricultural land and 
overhead transmission lines 
forming part of Vine Farm 
situated north of Vine Farm, 
west of Leys Lane and 
south west of The Leys, Eye 
for: 
1. the right to construct, 
install, use and maintain 
underground high 
voltage electrical cables 
and associated 
telemetry and electrical 
protection auxiliary 
cabling; and 
2. the temporary use for 
the purpose of 
constructing and 
installing the above. 
Discussions and a meeting with 
the owners took place in March 
2014 and a fully termed offer to 
acquire the necessary rights in 
the subsoil was made by PPL to 
the owner on 21 March 2014.  
An 
initial 
and 
increased 
undertaking 
to 
owner‟s 
solicitor‟s costs has been given 
most recently on 9th June 2014. 
Initial questions were sent from 
the owner‟s solicitors on 22nd 
May 2014 and a full response 
made on 9th June 2014. A full 
set of comments on the terms 
of the offer is expected shortly 
Discussions are ongoing.    
4_JW 
7 
Part of agricultural land and 
pond forming part of Red 
House Farm situated to the 
south of the access road 
from Old Norwich Road to 
Yaxley Lake, Eye  for: 
1.  the right to construct, 
install, use and maintain 
a new means of access 
between Work No. 5 
and the A140 including 
road widening, new 
turning lane, signing 
and road markings 
Discussions and a meeting with 
the owners took place in March 
2014 and a fully termed offer to 
acquire the necessary rights in 
the subsoil was made by PPL to 
the owner on 21 March 2014. 
 An undertaking for the costs of 
the 
owner‟s 
agents 
and 
solicitors was given in March 
and initial comments on behalf 
of the owners are expected 
shortly.  
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
70 
TABLE 2 
Plot 
No. 
Work 
No. 
Reason for Acquisition 
Status of Negotiation 
works, permanent road 
surface, gates, fencing, 
drainage, infilling, 
landscaping and tree 
and hedge removal and 
other incidental works; 
and 
2.  the temporary use for 
the purpose of 
constructing and 
installing the above. 
5_JW 
7 
Part of land, access road 
and car park entrance 
serving Yaxley Lake 
situated to the south of the 
access road from Old 
Norwich Road to Yaxley 
Lake, Eye  for: 
1.  the right to construct, 
install, use and maintain 
a new means of access 
between Work No. 5 
and the A140 including 
road widening, new 
turning lane, signing 
and road markings 
works, permanent road 
surface, gates, fencing, 
drainage, infilling, 
landscaping and tree 
and hedge removal and 
other incidental works; 
and 
2.  the temporary use for 
the purpose of 
constructing and 
installing the above. 
Discussions and a meeting with 
the owners took place in March 
2014 and a fully termed offer to 
acquire the necessary rights in 
the subsoil was made by PPL to 
the owner on 21 March 2014.  
An undertaking for the costs of 
the 
owner‟s 
agents 
and 
solicitors was given in March 
and initial comments on behalf 
of the owners are expected 
shortly. 
6_JW 
7 
Part of agricultural land 
forming part of Red House 
Discussions and a meeting with 
the owners took place in March 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
71 
TABLE 2 
Plot 
No. 
Work 
No. 
Reason for Acquisition 
Status of Negotiation 
Farm situated to the west of 
Old Norwich Road and 
south and south west of 
Yaxley Lake, Eye for: 
1.  the right to construct, 
install, use and maintain 
a new means of access 
between Work No. 5 
and the A140 including 
road widening, new 
turning lane, signing 
and road markings 
works, permanent road 
surface, gates, fencing, 
drainage, infilling, 
landscaping and tree 
and hedge removal and 
other incidental works; 
and 
2.  the temporary use for 
the purpose of 
constructing and 
installing the above. 
2014 and a fully termed offer to 
acquire the necessary rights in 
the subsoil was made by PPL to 
the owner on 21 March 2014.  
An undertaking for the costs of 
the 
owner‟s 
agents 
and 
solicitors was given in March 
and initial comments on behalf 
of the owners are expected 
shortly 
 
6.5 
Temporary possession of land pursuant to the draft Order      
6.5.1 
Temporary use of land is required in order to facilitate PPL and 
all persons authorised on its behalf during the construction 
period of the Project (Table 2 above also contains references to 
temporary use of land where this is being secured by way of 
compulsory acquisition of rights).   
6.5.2 
The intended purpose for which temporary use is sought in 
particular under Articles 26 and 27 of the draft Order, is set out 
in Table 3 in respect of the "yellow" land shown on the Land 
Plans (Sheets 2, 3, 4 and 5 of Document Reference 2.6).  This 
is described by reference to the Work Nos. set out in Schedule 
1 to the draft Order and shown on the Works Plan (Document 
Reference 2.7) and by plot number as referenced in the Book of 
Reference and Land Plans (Sheets 2, 3, 4 and 5, Document 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
72 
References 4.3 and 2.6 respectively).  Table 3 should be read 
together with those documents.  
6.5.3 
In addition to the "yellow" land shown in Table 3 (which aligns 
with Schedule 8 of the draft Order), temporary use of other 
Order Land may be required prior to any compulsory acquisition 
of that land or rights in that land. This is reflected in article 
26(1)(a)(ii) of the draft Order. 
 
TABLE 3 
Plot 
No. 
Work 
No. 
Reason for Acquisition 
Status of Negotiation 
1a_GR 
4 
Part of public footpath 
numbered W-583/009/0 
situated to the east of 
Oaksmere Business Park, 
Eye for the temporary use 
of land to: 
1. construct and install a 
new underground gas 
pipeline connection and 
telemetry cabling, 
approximately 1.7km in 
length connecting the 
natural gas receiving 
station and gas 
treatment compound in 
Work No. 1B to Work 
No. 3A; 
2. construct and install 
pipeline field marker 
posts and cathodic 
protection test/ 
transformer rectifier unit; 
3. construct and install 
below ground drainage 
works; 
4. carry out tree and hedge 
removal; and 
5. carry out landscaping 
including tree planting, 
A fully termed offer to acquire 
the necessary rights was made 
by PPL to the owner on 21 
March 2014. Discussions are 
ongoing. 
The landowner‟s agent 
responded in detailed terms on 
11th June 2014 and PPL 
responded on 2nd July 2014. 
Where clarification to the PPL 
proposal has been sought it is 
expected that agreement to the 
terms will be reached early this 
summer. 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
73 
TABLE 3 
Plot 
No. 
Work 
No. 
Reason for Acquisition 
Status of Negotiation 
fencing and other 
boundary treatments and 
ecological mitigation. 
2a_GR 
4 
Land forming part of the 
disused runway complex at 
Eye Airfield situated to the 
east of Oaksmere Business 
Park, Eye for the temporary 
use of land to: 
1. construct and install a 
new underground gas 
pipeline connection and 
telemetry cabling, 
approximately 1.7km in 
length connecting the 
natural gas receiving 
station and gas 
treatment compound in 
Work No. 1B to Work 
No. 3A; 
2. construct and install 
pipeline field marker 
posts and cathodic 
protection test/ 
transformer rectifier unit; 
3. construct and install 
below ground drainage 
works; 
4. carry out tree and hedge 
removal; and 
5. carry out landscaping 
including tree planting, 
fencing and other 
boundary treatments and 
ecological mitigation. 
A fully termed offer to acquire 
the necessary rights was made 
by PPL to the owner on 21 
March 2014.  
The landowner‟s agent 
responded in detailed terms on 
11th June 2014 and PPL 
responded on 2nd July 2014. 
Where clarification to the PPL 
proposal has been sought it is 
expected that agreement to the 
terms will be reached early this 
summer. 
2b_GR 
4 
Land forming part of the 
disused runway complex at 
Eye Airfield situated to the 
A fully termed offer to acquire 
the necessary rights was made 
by PPL to the owner on 21 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
74 
TABLE 3 
Plot 
No. 
Work 
No. 
Reason for Acquisition 
Status of Negotiation 
south east of Oaksmere 
Business Park, Eye for the 
temporary use (including 
the passing and re-passing 
of vehicles) of land to: 
1. construct and install a 
new underground gas 
pipeline connection and 
telemetry cabling, 
approximately 1.7km in 
length connecting the 
natural gas receiving 
station and gas 
treatment compound in 
Work No. 1B to Work 
No. 3A; 
2. construct and install 
pipeline field marker 
posts and cathodic 
protection test/ 
transformer rectifier unit; 
3. construct and install 
below ground drainage 
works; 
4. carry out tree and hedge 
removal; and 
5. carry out landscaping 
including tree planting, 
fencing and other 
boundary treatments and 
ecological mitigation. 
March 2014.  
The landowner‟s agent 
responded in detailed terms on 
11th June 2014 and PPL 
responded on 2nd July 2014. 
Where clarification to the PPL 
proposal has been sought it is 
expected that agreement to the 
terms will be reached early this 
summer. 
3a_GR 
4 
Land forming part of the 
private access road known 
as Potash Lane situated to 
the south east of Oaksmere 
Business Park, Eye for the 
temporary use of land to:  
1. construct and install a 
A fully termed offer to acquire 
the necessary rights was made 
by PPL to the owner on 21 
March 2014.  
The landowner‟s agent 
responded in detailed terms on 
11th June 2014 and PPL 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
75 
TABLE 3 
Plot 
No. 
Work 
No. 
Reason for Acquisition 
Status of Negotiation 
new underground gas 
pipeline connection and 
telemetry cabling, 
approximately 1.7km in 
length connecting the 
natural gas receiving 
station and gas 
treatment compound in 
Work No. 1B to Work 
No. 3A; 
2. construct and install 
pipeline field marker 
posts and cathodic 
protection test/ 
transformer rectifier unit; 
3. construct and install 
below ground drainage 
works; 
4. carry out tree and hedge 
removal; and 
5. carry out landscaping 
including tree planting, 
fencing and other 
boundary treatments and 
ecological mitigation. 
responded on 2nd July 2014. 
Where clarification to the PPL 
proposal has been sought it is 
expected that agreement to the 
terms will be reached early this 
summer. 
4a_GR 
4 
Part of agricultural land, 
part of wooded area and 
part of an access track 
forming part of White 
House Farm situated to the 
south of Oaksmere 
Business Park, east of the 
A140 and north of 
Castleton Way, Eye for the 
temporary use of land to: 
1. construct and install a 
new underground gas 
pipeline connection and 
telemetry cabling, 
A fully termed offer to acquire 
the necessary rights was made 
by PPL to the owner on 21 
March 2014.  
The landowner‟s agent 
responded in detailed terms on 
11th June 2014 and PPL 
responded on 2nd July 2014. 
Where clarification to the PPL 
proposal has been sought it is 
expected that agreement to the 
terms will be reached early this 
summer. 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
76 
TABLE 3 
Plot 
No. 
Work 
No. 
Reason for Acquisition 
Status of Negotiation 
approximately 1.7km in 
length connecting the 
natural gas receiving 
station and gas 
treatment compound in 
Work No. 1B to Work 
No. 3A; 
2. construct and install 
pipeline field marker 
posts and cathodic 
protection test/ 
transformer rectifier unit; 
3. construct and install 
below ground drainage 
works; 
4. carry out tree and hedge 
removal; and 
5. carry out landscaping 
including tree planting, 
fencing and other 
boundary treatments and 
ecological mitigation. 
6a_GR 
4 
Land forming part of the 
private access road known 
as Potash Lane leading 
from Castleton Way to the 
disused runway complex at 
Eye Airfield, Eye for the 
temporary use of land to: 
1. construct and install a 
new underground gas 
pipeline connection and 
telemetry cabling, 
approximately 1.7km in 
length connecting the 
natural gas receiving 
station and gas 
treatment compound in 
Work No. 1B to Work 
A fully termed offer to acquire 
the necessary rights was made 
by PPL to the owner on 21 
March 2014.  
The landowner‟s agent 
responded in detailed terms on 
11th June 2014 and PPL 
responded on 2nd July 2014. 
Where clarification to the PPL 
proposal has been sought it is 
expected that agreement to the 
terms will be reached early this 
summer. 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
77 
TABLE 3 
Plot 
No. 
Work 
No. 
Reason for Acquisition 
Status of Negotiation 
No. 3A; 
2. construct and install 
pipeline field marker 
posts and cathodic 
protection test/ 
transformer rectifier unit; 
3. construct and install 
below ground drainage 
works; 
4. carry out tree and hedge 
removal; and 
5. carry out landscaping 
including tree planting, 
fencing and other 
boundary treatments and 
ecological mitigation. 
7a_GR 
4 
Part of agricultural land 
forming part of White 
House Farm situated north 
of Castleton Way and to the 
east of the access road 
leading from Castleton Way 
to the disused runway 
complex at Eye Airfield, 
Eye for the temporary use 
of land to: 
1. construct and install a 
new underground gas 
pipeline connection and 
telemetry cabling, 
approximately 1.7km in 
length connecting the 
natural gas receiving 
station and gas 
treatment compound in 
Work No. 1B to Work 
No. 3A; 
2. construct and install 
A fully termed offer to acquire 
the necessary rights was made 
by PPL to the owner on 21 
March 2014.  
The landowner‟s agent 
responded in detailed terms on 
11th June 2014 and PPL 
responded on 2nd July 2014. 
Where clarification to the PPL 
proposal has been sought it is 
expected that agreement to the 
terms will be reached early this 
summer. 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
78 
TABLE 3 
Plot 
No. 
Work 
No. 
Reason for Acquisition 
Status of Negotiation 
pipeline field marker 
posts and cathodic 
protection test/ 
transformer rectifier unit; 
3. construct and install 
below ground drainage 
works; 
4. carry out tree and hedge 
removal; and 
5. carry out landscaping 
including tree planting, 
fencing and other 
boundary treatments and 
ecological mitigation. 
1a_ER 
6 
Part of public footpath 
numbered W-583/009/0 
situated to the east of 
Oaksmere Business Park 
and to the south west of the 
National Grid Gas 
compound, Eye for the 
temporary use of land to: 
1. construct and install an 
underground 400kV 
electrical cable circuit 
and associated telemetry 
and electrical protection 
auxiliary cabling, 
approximately 1.6km in 
length and joint bays in 
relation to Work No. 6a.  
A fully termed offer to acquire 
the necessary rights was made 
by PPL to the owner on 21 
March 2014.  
The landowner‟s agent 
responded in detailed terms on 
11th June 2014 and PPL 
responded on 2nd July 2014. 
Where clarification to the PPL 
proposal has been sought it is 
expected that agreement to the 
terms will be reached early this 
summer. 
2a_ER 
6 
Land forming part of the 
disused runway complex at 
Eye Airfield situated to the 
east of Oaksmere Business 
Park and to the south west 
of the National Grid Gas 
compound, Eye for the 
A fully termed offer to acquire 
the necessary rights was made 
by PPL to the owner on 21 
March 2014.  
The landowner‟s agent 
responded in detailed terms on 
11th June 2014 and PPL 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
79 
TABLE 3 
Plot 
No. 
Work 
No. 
Reason for Acquisition 
Status of Negotiation 
temporary use of land to: 
1. construct and install an 
underground 400kV 
electrical cable circuit 
and associated telemetry 
and electrical protection 
auxiliary cabling, 
approximately 1.6km in 
length and joint bays in 
relation to Work No. 6a.  
responded on 2nd July 2014. 
Where clarification to the PPL 
proposal has been sought it is 
expected that agreement to the 
terms will be reached early this 
summer. 
2b_ER 
6 
Land forming part of the 
disused runway complex at 
Eye Airfield situated to the 
south east of Oaksmere 
Business Park and to the 
south west of the National 
Grid Gas compound, Eye 
for the temporary use 
(including the passing and 
re-passing of vehicles) of 
land to: 
1. construct and install an 
underground 400kV 
electrical cable circuit 
and associated telemetry 
and electrical protection 
auxiliary cabling, 
approximately 1.6km in 
length and joint bays in 
relation to Work No. 6a.  
A fully termed offer to acquire 
the necessary rights was made 
by PPL to the owner on 21 
March 2014.  
The landowner‟s agent 
responded in detailed terms on 
11th June 2014 and PPL 
responded on 2nd July 2014. 
Where clarification to the PPL 
proposal has been sought it is 
expected that agreement to the 
terms will be reached early this 
summer. 
3a_ER 
6 
Land forming part of the 
private access road known 
as Potash Lane situated to 
the south east of Oaksmere 
Business Park, Eye for the 
temporary use of land to: 
1. construct and install an 
underground 400kV 
electrical cable circuit 
A fully termed offer to acquire 
the necessary rights was made 
by PPL to the owner on 21 
March 2014.  
The landowner‟s agent 
responded in detailed terms on 
11th June 2014 and PPL 
responded on 2nd July 2014. 
Where clarification to the PPL 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
80 
TABLE 3 
Plot 
No. 
Work 
No. 
Reason for Acquisition 
Status of Negotiation 
and associated telemetry 
and electrical protection 
auxiliary cabling, 
approximately 1.6km in 
length and joint bays in 
relation to Work No. 6a.  
proposal has been sought it is 
expected that agreement to the 
terms will be reached early this 
summer. 
4a_ER 
6 
Part of agricultural land and 
access track situated to the 
south of Oaksmere 
Business Park and White 
House Farm buildings, Eye 
for the temporary use of 
land to: 
1. construct and install an 
underground 400kV 
electrical cable circuit 
and associated telemetry 
and electrical protection 
auxiliary cabling, 
approximately 1.6km in 
length and joint bays in 
relation to Work No. 6a.  
A fully termed offer to acquire 
the necessary rights was made 
by PPL to the owner on 21 
March 2014.  
The landowner‟s agent 
responded in detailed terms on 
11th June 2014 and PPL 
responded on 2nd July 2014. 
Where clarification to the PPL 
proposal has been sought it is 
expected that agreement to the 
terms will be reached early this 
summer. 
4b_ER 
6 
Part of agricultural land, 
part of access track and 
hard standing to White 
House Farm buildings 
situated to the south and 
west of Oaksmere Business 
Park and White House 
Farm buildings, Eye for the 
temporary use of land to; 
1. construct and install an 
underground 400kV 
electrical cable circuit 
and associated telemetry 
and electrical protection 
auxiliary cabling, 
approximately 1.6km in 
length and joint bays in 
A fully termed offer to acquire 
the necessary rights was made 
by PPL to the owner on 21 
March 2014.  
The landowner‟s agent 
responded in detailed terms on 
11th June 2014 and PPL 
responded on 2nd July 2014. 
Where clarification to the PPL 
proposal has been sought it is 
expected that agreement to the 
terms will be reached early this 
summer. 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
81 
TABLE 3 
Plot 
No. 
Work 
No. 
Reason for Acquisition 
Status of Negotiation 
relation to Work No. 6a.  
4c_ER 
6 
Part of agricultural land 
situated to the east of the 
A140 and south west of 
White House Farm 
buildings, Eye for the 
temporary use of land to: 
1. construct and install an 
underground 400kV 
electrical cable circuit 
and associated telemetry 
and electrical protection 
auxiliary cabling, 
approximately 1.6km in 
length and joint bays in 
relation to Work No. 6a.  
A fully termed offer to acquire 
the necessary rights was made 
by PPL to the owner on 21 
March 2014.  
The landowner‟s agent 
responded in detailed terms on 
11th June 2014 and PPL 
responded on 2nd July 2014. 
Where clarification to the PPL 
proposal has been sought it is 
expected that agreement to the 
terms will be reached early this 
summer. 
9a_ER 
6 
Part of agricultural land 
forming part of Red House 
Farm situated to the west of 
Old Norwich Road and 
south and south west of 
Yaxley Lake, Eye for the 
temporary use of land to: 
1. construct and install an 
underground 400kV 
electrical cable circuit 
and associated telemetry 
and electrical protection 
auxiliary cabling, 
approximately 1.6km in 
length and joint bays in 
relation to Work No. 6a.  
Discussions and a meeting 
with the owners took place in 
March 2014 and a fully termed 
offer to acquire the necessary 
rights made on 21 March 2014.  
An undertaking for the costs of 
the owner‟s agents and 
solicitors was given in March 
and initial comments on behalf 
of the owners are expected 
shortly. 
9b_ER 
6 
Part of agricultural land 
forming part of Red House 
Farm situated to the west of 
Old Norwich Road and 
south and south west of 
Yaxley Lake, Eye for the 
temporary use of land to: 
Discussions and a meeting 
with the owners took place in 
March 2014 and a fully termed 
offer to acquire the necessary 
rights made on 21 March 2014.  
An undertaking for the costs of 
the owner‟s agents and 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
82 
TABLE 3 
Plot 
No. 
Work 
No. 
Reason for Acquisition 
Status of Negotiation 
1. construct and install an 
underground 400kV 
electrical cable circuit 
and associated telemetry 
and electrical protection 
auxiliary cabling, 
approximately 1.6km in 
length and joint bays in 
relation to Work No. 6a.  
solicitors was given in March 
and initial comments on behalf 
of the owners are expected 
shortly. 
3_JW 
7 
Part of agricultural land 
forming part of Red House 
Farm situated to the south 
of the access road from Old 
Norwich Road to Yaxley 
Lake, Eye for the temporary 
use of land to: 
1. to construct and install 
a new means of access 
between Work No. 5 
and the A140 including 
road widening, new 
turning lane, signing 
and road markings 
works, permanent road 
surface, gates, fencing, 
drainage, infilling, 
landscaping and tree 
and hedge removal and 
other incidental works.  
Discussions and a meeting 
with the owners took place in 
March 2014 and a fully termed 
offer to acquire the necessary 
rights made on 21 March 
2014.. 
An undertaking for the costs of 
the owner‟s agents and 
solicitors was given in March 
and initial comments on behalf 
of the owners are expected 
shortly. 
 
6.6 
Need for power to override interests, other rights and restrictive 
covenants (Article 18) and need for power to suspend or 
extinguish private rights4 (Articles 21 and 28)       
6.6.1 
As set out in paragraph 5.3 above, there is a need to override 
interests, rights (meaning any easement, liberty, privilege, right 
or advantage annexed to land and adversely affecting other 
land including any natural right to support) and any breaches of 
                                                      
4 Any interference with rights, restrictions etc over the Order land arising from the exercise of any articles in the Order 
which provide statutory to access and/or use land within the Order limits are captured in Part 3 of the Book of Reference 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
83 
restrictive covenants as well as suspend or extinguish certain 
private rights.   
6.6.2 
The reason for such overriding, suspension or extinguishment is 
summarised in Table 4.  This is described by reference to the 
Work Nos. set out in Schedule 1 to the draft Order and shown 
on the Works Plan (Document Reference 2.7) and by plot 
number as referenced in the Book of Reference and Land Plans 
(Sheets 1 to 5, Document References 4.3 and 2.6 respectively).  
Table 4 should be read together with those documents.  Articles 
18, 21 and 28 of the draft Order are relied upon.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE 4 
Plot No. 
Work 
No. 
Reason for 
suspension or 
extinguishment or 
overriding  
Status of Negotiation 
Extinguishment  or Overriding  
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
84 
TABLE 4 
Plot No. 
Work 
No. 
Reason for 
suspension or 
extinguishment or 
overriding  
Status of Negotiation 
1_MS 
1A, 
1B, 
1C, 
1D, 
2, 
4 
and 6 
The 
covenants, 
restrictions, 
easements and all 
other rights (except 
those for the benefit 
of 
UK 
Power 
Networks 
(Operations) Limited 
which 
PPL 
has 
requested protective 
provisions regarding) 
detailed in the fourth 
column of the table at 
section 1.3 of the 
Book 
of 
the 
Reference 
(being 
Part 3 of the Book of 
Reference in respect 
of 
the 
Power 
Generation 
Plant) 
have the potential to 
interfere 
with 
and 
hinder 
the 
construction, 
operation 
and 
maintenance of the 
Power 
Generation 
Plant, the Cable and 
the Gas Connection.   
PPL has engaged by 
letter dated and posted 
by recorded delivery on 
23rd June 2014 with 
those listed in the Book 
of Reference who are 
considered to enjoy the 
covenants, restrictions, 
easements 
and 
all 
other rights identified in 
respect of 1_MS.  
PPL has offered to 
enter 
in 
to 
an 
agreement relating to 
the affected rights and 
to pay the professional 
fees of the affected 
parties incurred in such 
process. 
As stated in paragraphs 
5.3.17 
and 
5.3.18 
above, steps will be 
taken to remove or 
reposition 
the 
apparatus 
of 
utilities 
where 
the 
services 
affected 
require 
reinstatement so that 
the 
applicable 
utility 
services 
can 
be 
reinstated, maintained 
and operated.   
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
85 
TABLE 4 
Plot No. 
Work 
No. 
Reason for 
suspension or 
extinguishment or 
overriding  
Status of Negotiation 
7_GR 
3A, 
3B 
and 4 
The 
covenants, 
restrictions, 
easements and all 
other rights (except 
those for the benefit 
of National Grid Gas 
plc which PPL is in 
the 
process 
of 
agreeing 
protective 
provisions regarding) 
detailed in the fourth 
column of the table at 
section 2.3 of the 
Book 
of 
the 
Reference 
(being 
Part 3 of the Book of 
Reference in respect 
of 
the 
Gas 
Connection) have the 
potential to interfere 
with and hinder the 
construction, 
operation 
and 
maintenance of the 
Gas Connection.   
PPL has engaged by 
letter dated and posted 
by recorded delivery on 
23rd June 2014 with 
those listed in the Book 
of Reference who are 
considered to enjoy the 
covenants, restrictions, 
easements 
and 
all 
other rights identified in 
respect of 7_GR.    
PPL has offered to 
enter 
in 
to 
an 
agreement relating to 
the affected rights and 
to pay the professional 
fees of the affected 
parties incurred in such 
process. 
As stated in paragraphs 
5.3.17 
and 
5.3.18 
above, steps will be 
taken to remove or 
reposition 
the 
apparatus 
of 
utilities 
where 
the 
services 
affected 
require 
reinstatement so that 
the 
applicable 
utility 
services 
can 
be 
reinstated, maintained 
and operated.   
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
86 
TABLE 4 
Plot No. 
Work 
No. 
Reason for 
suspension or 
extinguishment or 
overriding  
Status of Negotiation 
14_ER 
and 
17_ER 
5a, 
5c, 
5d, 
5e 
and 
5f 
The 
covenants, 
restrictions, 
easements and all 
other rights (except 
those for the benefit 
of 
National 
Grid 
Electricity 
Transmission 
plc 
which PPL is in the 
process of agreeing 
protective provisions 
regarding) detailed in 
the fourth column of 
the table at section 
3.3 of the Book of the 
Reference 
(being 
Part 3 of the Book of 
Reference in respect 
of 
the 
Electrical 
Connection) have the 
potential to interfere 
with and hinder the 
construction, 
operation 
and 
maintenance of the 
Electrical Connection 
Compound.     
PPL has engaged by 
letter dated and posted 
by recorded delivery on 
23rd June 2014 with 
those listed in the Book 
of Reference who are 
considered to enjoy the 
covenants, restrictions, 
easements 
and 
all 
other rights identified in 
respect of 14_ER and 
17_ER.  
PPL has offered to 
enter 
in 
to 
an 
agreement relating to 
the affected rights and 
to pay the professional 
fees of the affected 
parties incurred in such 
process. 
As stated in paragraphs 
5.3.17 
and 
5.3.18 
above, steps will be 
taken to remove or 
reposition 
the 
apparatus 
of 
utilities 
where 
the 
services 
affected 
require 
reinstatement so that 
the 
applicable 
utility 
services 
can 
be 
reinstated, maintained 
and operated.   
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
87 
TABLE 4 
Plot No. 
Work 
No. 
Reason for 
suspension or 
extinguishment or 
overriding  
Status of Negotiation 
19_ER 
5b, 
5c, 
5d 
and 
5e 
The 
covenants, 
restrictions, 
easements and all 
other rights (except 
those for the benefit 
of 
National 
Grid 
Electricity 
Transmission 
plc 
which PPL is in the 
process of agreeing 
protective provisions 
regarding) detailed in 
the fourth column of 
the table at section 
3.3 of the Book of the 
Reference 
(being 
Part 3 of the Book of 
Reference in respect 
of 
the 
Electrical 
Connection) have the 
potential to interfere 
with and hinder the 
construction, 
operation 
and 
maintenance of the 
Electrical Connection 
Compound.    
PPL has engaged by 
letter dated and posted 
by recorded delivery on 
23rd June 2014 with 
those listed in the Book 
of Reference who are 
considered to enjoy the 
covenants, restrictions, 
easements 
and 
all 
other rights identified in 
respect of 19_ER.  
PPL has offered to 
enter 
in 
to 
an 
agreement relating to 
the affected rights and 
to pay the professional 
fees of the affected 
parties incurred in such 
process. 
As stated in paragraphs 
5.3.17 
and 
5.3.18 
above, steps will be 
taken to remove or 
reposition 
the 
apparatus 
of 
utilities 
where 
the 
services 
affected 
require 
reinstatement so that 
the 
applicable 
utility 
services 
can 
be 
reinstated, maintained 
and operated.   
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
88 
TABLE 4 
Plot No. 
Work 
No. 
Reason for 
suspension or 
extinguishment or 
overriding  
Status of Negotiation 
16_ER 
5a, 
5c, 
5d, 
5e 
and 
5f 
The 
covenants, 
restrictions, 
easements and all 
other rights detailed 
in the fourth column 
of the table at section 
3.3 of the Book of the 
Reference 
(being 
Part 3 of the Book of 
Reference in respect 
of 
the 
Electrical 
Connection) have the 
potential to interfere 
with and hinder the 
construction, 
operation 
and 
maintenance of the 
Electrical Connection 
Compound.   
PPL has engaged by 
letter dated and posted 
by recorded delivery on 
23rd June 2014 with 
those listed in the Book 
of Reference who are 
considered to enjoy the 
covenants, restrictions, 
easements 
and 
all 
other rights identified in 
respect of 15_ER and 
16_ER.  
PPL has offered to 
enter 
in 
to 
an 
agreement relating to 
the affected rights and 
to pay the professional 
fees of the affected 
parties incurred in such 
process. 
As stated in paragraphs 
5.3.17 
and 
5.3.18 
above, steps will be 
taken to remove or 
reposition 
the 
apparatus 
of 
utilities 
where 
the 
services 
affected 
require 
reinstatement so that 
the 
applicable 
utility 
services 
can 
be 
reinstated, maintained 
and operated.   
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
89 
TABLE 4 
Plot No. 
Work 
No. 
Reason for 
suspension or 
extinguishment or 
overriding  
Status of Negotiation 
1_JW 
and 
2_JW 
7 
The 
covenants, 
restrictions, 
easements and all 
other rights detailed 
in the fourth column 
of the table at section 
4.3 of the Book of the 
Reference 
(being 
Part 3 of the Book of 
Reference in respect 
of the A140 Junction) 
have the potential to 
interfere 
with 
and 
hinder 
the 
construction, 
operation 
and 
maintenance of the 
Access 
Road 
and 
A140 Junction.   
PPL has engaged by 
letter dated and posted 
by recorded delivery on 
23rd June 2014 with 
those listed in the Book 
of Reference who are 
considered to enjoy the 
covenants, restrictions, 
easements 
and 
all 
other rights identified in 
respect of 1_JW and 
2_JW.  
PPL has offered to 
enter 
in 
to 
an 
agreement relating to 
the affected rights and 
to pay the professional 
fees of the affected 
parties incurred in such 
process. 
As stated in paragraphs 
5.3.17 
and 
5.3.18 
above, steps will be 
taken to remove or 
reposition 
the 
apparatus 
of 
utilities 
where 
the 
services 
affected 
require 
reinstatement so that 
the 
applicable 
utility 
services 
can 
be 
reinstated, maintained 
and operated.   
Suspension or Extinguishment or overriding5 
                                                      
5 PPL does not intend to suspend or extinguish sub-surface rights for any plot ending in a or b ER or GR (i.e the "yellow" 
land shown on the Land Plans (Document Reference 2.6)). However, these parcels still appear in Part 3 of the Book of 
Reference due to various of the draft Order articles representing an interference with these rights. The powers taken to 
suspend or extinguish rights etc in the draft Order have been amended to ensure that rights etc are only suspended or 
extinguished to the extent that they are incompatible with those rights etc taken by PPL. 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
90 
TABLE 4 
Plot No. 
Work 
No. 
Reason for 
suspension or 
extinguishment or 
overriding  
Status of Negotiation 
1a_GR, 2_GR 
and 2a_GR 
4 
The 
covenants, 
restrictions, 
easements and all 
other rights (except 
those for the benefit 
of 
UK 
Power 
Networks 
(Operations) Limited 
which 
PPL 
has 
requested protective 
provisions regarding) 
detailed in the fourth 
column of the table at 
section 2.3 of the 
Book 
of 
the 
Reference 
(being 
Part 3 of the Book of 
Reference in respect 
of 
the 
Gas 
Connection) have the 
potential to interfere 
with and hinder the 
construction, 
operation 
and 
maintenance of the 
Gas Connection.   
PPL has engaged by 
letter dated and posted 
by recorded delivery on 
23rd June 2014 with 
those listed in the Book 
of Reference who are 
considered to enjoy the 
covenants, restrictions, 
easements 
and 
all 
other rights identified in 
respect 
of 
1a_GR, 
2_GR and 2a_GR.  
PPL has offered to 
enter 
in 
to 
an 
agreement relating to 
the affected rights and 
to pay the professional 
fees of the affected 
parties incurred in such 
process. 
As stated in paragraphs 
5.3.17 
and 
5.3.18 
above, steps will be 
taken to remove or 
reposition 
the 
apparatus 
of 
utilities 
where 
the 
services 
affected 
require 
reinstatement so that 
the 
applicable 
utility 
services 
can 
be 
reinstated, maintained 
and operated.   
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
91 
TABLE 4 
Plot No. 
Work 
No. 
Reason for 
suspension or 
extinguishment or 
overriding  
Status of Negotiation 
1a_ER, 2_ER 
and 2a_ER 
6 
The 
covenants, 
restrictions, 
easements and all 
other rights (except 
those for the benefit 
of 
UK 
Power 
Networks 
(Operations) Limited 
which 
PPL 
has 
requested protective 
provisions regarding) 
detailed in the fourth 
column of the table at 
section 3.3 of the 
Book 
of 
the 
Reference 
(being 
Part 3 of the Book of 
Reference in respect 
of 
the 
Electrical 
Connection) have the 
potential to interfere 
with and hinder the 
construction, 
operation 
and 
maintenance of the 
Cable.    
PPL has engaged by 
letter dated and posted 
by recorded delivery on 
23rd June 2014 with 
those listed in the Book 
of Reference who are 
considered to enjoy the 
covenants, restrictions, 
easements 
and 
all 
other rights identified in 
respect 
of 
1a_ER, 
2_ER and 2a_ER.  
PPL has offered to 
enter 
in 
to 
an 
agreement relating to 
the affected rights and 
to pay the professional 
fees of the affected 
parties incurred in such 
process. 
As stated in paragraphs 
5.3.17 
and 
5.3.18 
above, steps will be 
taken to remove or 
reposition 
the 
apparatus 
of 
utilities 
where 
the 
services 
affected 
require 
reinstatement so that 
the 
applicable 
utility 
services 
can 
be 
reinstated, maintained 
and operated.   
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
92 
TABLE 4 
Plot No. 
Work 
No. 
Reason for 
suspension or 
extinguishment or 
overriding  
Status of Negotiation 
3_GR, 3a_GR 
and 6a_GR 
4 
The 
covenants, 
restrictions, 
easements and all 
other rights (except, 
in 
the 
case 
of 
6a_GR, the right to 
pass and repass with 
or without vehicles 
over 
a 
6m 
strip 
located 
at 
the 
western edge of the 
disused 
runway 
complex 
(Potash 
Lane) from Castleton 
Way for the benefit of 
units 
within 
Oaksmere Business 
Park, the freeholder 
of 
Eye 
Industrial 
Estate 
and 
units 
adjoining Plot 1_MS) 
detailed in the fourth 
column of the table at 
section 2.3 of the 
Book 
of 
the 
Reference 
(being 
Part 3 of the Book of 
Reference in respect 
of 
the 
Gas 
Connection) have the 
potential to interfere 
with and hinder the 
construction, 
operation 
and 
maintenance of the 
Gas Connection.    
PPL has engaged by 
letter dated and posted 
by recorded delivery on 
23rd June 2014 with 
those listed in the Book 
of Reference who are 
considered to enjoy the 
covenants, restrictions, 
easements 
and 
all 
other rights identified in 
respect 
of 
3_GR, 
3a_GR and 6a_GR.   
 PPL has offered to 
enter 
in 
to 
an 
agreement relating to 
the affected rights and 
to pay the professional 
fees of the affected 
parties incurred in such 
process. 
As stated in paragraphs 
5.3.17 
and 
5.3.18 
above, steps will be 
taken to remove or 
reposition 
the 
apparatus 
of 
utilities 
where 
the 
services 
affected 
require 
reinstatement so that 
the 
applicable 
utility 
services 
can 
be 
reinstated, maintained 
and operated and PPL 
is seeking rights to 
allow vehicles to pass 
and 
re-pass 
across 
plots 
2_GR, 
2_ER, 
2b_GR and 2b_ER in 
order 
to 
ensure 
uninterrupted access to 
the users of this private 
road.   
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
93 
TABLE 4 
Plot No. 
Work 
No. 
Reason for 
suspension or 
extinguishment or 
overriding  
Status of Negotiation 
6_GR 
3B 
and 4 
The 
covenants, 
restrictions, 
easements and all 
other rights (except 
the right to pass and 
repass 
with 
or 
without vehicles over 
a 6m strip located at 
the western edge of 
the disused runway 
complex 
(Potash 
Lane) from Castleton 
Way for the benefit of 
units 
within 
Oaksmere Business 
Park, the freeholder 
of 
Eye 
Industrial 
Estate 
and 
units 
adjoining Plot 1_MS) 
detailed in the fourth 
column of the table at 
section 2.3 of the 
Book 
of 
the 
Reference 
(being 
Part 3 of the Book of 
Reference in respect 
of 
the 
Gas 
Connection) have the 
potential to interfere 
with and hinder the 
construction, 
operation 
and 
maintenance of the 
Gas Connection.    
PPL has engaged by 
letter dated and posted 
by recorded delivery on 
23rd June 2014 with 
those listed in the Book 
of Reference who are 
considered to enjoy the 
covenants, restrictions, 
easements 
and 
all 
other rights identified in 
respect of 6_GR.    
PPL has offered to 
enter 
in 
to 
an 
agreement relating to 
the affected rights and 
to pay the professional 
fees of the affected 
parties incurred in such 
process. 
As stated in paragraphs 
5.3.17 
and 
5.3.18 
above, steps will be 
taken to remove or 
reposition 
the 
apparatus 
of 
utilities 
where 
the 
services 
affected 
require 
reinstatement so that 
the 
applicable 
utility 
services 
can 
be 
reinstated, maintained 
and operated.   
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
94 
TABLE 4 
Plot No. 
Work 
No. 
Reason for 
suspension or 
extinguishment or 
overriding  
Status of Negotiation 
3_ER 
and 
3a_ER 
6 
The 
covenants, 
restrictions, 
easements and all 
other rights  detailed 
in the fourth column 
of the table at section 
3.3 of the Book of the 
Reference 
(being 
Part 3 of the Book of 
Reference in respect 
of 
the 
Electrical 
Connection) have the 
potential to interfere 
with and hinder the 
construction, 
operation 
and 
maintenance of the 
Cable.     
PPL has engaged by 
letter dated and posted 
by recorded delivery on 
23rd June 2014 with 
those listed in the Book 
of Reference who are 
considered to enjoy the 
covenants, restrictions, 
easements 
and 
all 
other rights identified in 
respect of 3_ER and 
3a_ER.      
PPL has offered to 
enter 
in 
to 
an 
agreement relating to 
the affected rights and 
to pay the professional 
fees of the affected 
parties incurred in such 
process. 
As stated in paragraphs 
5.3.17 
and 
5.3.18 
above, steps will be 
taken to remove or 
reposition 
the 
apparatus 
of 
utilities 
where 
the 
services 
affected 
require 
reinstatement so that 
the 
applicable 
utility 
services 
can 
be 
reinstated, maintained 
and operated and PPL 
is seeking rights to 
allow vehicles to pass 
and 
re-pass 
across 
plots 
2_GR, 
2_ER, 
2b_GR and 2b_ER in 
order 
to 
ensure 
uninterrupted access to 
the users of this private 
road.   
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
95 
TABLE 4 
Plot No. 
Work 
No. 
Reason for 
suspension or 
extinguishment or 
overriding  
Status of Negotiation 
 1_GR, 
2b_GR, 
4_GR, 
4a_GR, 
and 
7a_GR 
4 
The 
covenants, 
restrictions, 
easements and all 
other rights (except 
those for the benefit 
of National Grid Gas 
plc which PPL is in 
the 
process 
of 
agreeing 
protective 
provisions regarding) 
detailed in the fourth 
column of the table at 
section 2.3 of the 
Book 
of 
the 
Reference 
(being 
Part 3 of the Book of 
Reference in respect 
of 
the 
Gas 
Connection) have the 
potential to interfere 
with and hinder the 
construction, 
operation 
and 
maintenance of the 
Gas Connection.    
PPL has engaged by 
letter dated and posted 
by recorded delivery on 
23rd June 2014 with 
those listed in the Book 
of Reference who are 
considered to enjoy the 
covenants, restrictions, 
easements 
and 
all 
other rights identified in 
respect 
of 
1_GR, 
2b_GR, 4_GR, 4a_GR, 
5_GR and 7a_GR.   
PPL has offered to 
enter 
in 
to 
an 
agreement relating to 
the affected rights and 
to pay the professional 
fees of the affected 
parties incurred in such 
process. 
As stated in paragraphs 
5.3.17 
and 
5.3.18 
above, steps will be 
taken to remove or 
reposition 
the 
apparatus 
of 
utilities 
where 
the 
services 
affected 
require 
reinstatement so that 
the 
applicable 
utility 
services 
can 
be 
reinstated, maintained 
and operated.   
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
96 
TABLE 4 
Plot No. 
Work 
No. 
Reason for 
suspension or 
extinguishment or 
overriding  
Status of Negotiation 
1_ER, 2b_ER, 
4_ER, 
4a_ER,4b_ER 
4c_ER, 5_ER 
and 6_ER 
6 
The 
covenants, 
restrictions, 
easements and all 
other rights detailed 
in the fourth column 
of the table at section 
3.3 of the Book of the 
Reference 
(being 
Part 3 of the Book of 
Reference in respect 
of 
the 
Electrical 
Connection) have the 
potential to interfere 
with and hinder the 
construction, 
operation 
and 
maintenance of the 
Cable.    
PPL has engaged by 
letter dated and posted 
by recorded delivery on 
23rd June 2014 with 
those listed in the Book 
of Reference who are 
considered to enjoy the 
covenants, restrictions, 
easements 
and 
all 
other rights identified in 
respect 
of 
1_ER, 
2b_GR, 4_ER, 4a_ER, 
4c_ER, 
5_ER 
and 
6_ER.   
PPL has offered to 
enter 
in 
to 
an 
agreement relating to 
the affected rights and 
to pay the professional 
fees of the affected 
parties incurred in such 
process. 
As stated in paragraphs 
5.3.17 
and 
5.3.18 
above, steps will be 
taken to remove or 
reposition 
the 
apparatus 
of 
utilities 
where 
the 
services 
affected 
require 
reinstatement so that 
the 
applicable 
utility 
services 
can 
be 
reinstated, maintained 
and operated.   
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
97 
TABLE 4 
Plot No. 
Work 
No. 
Reason for 
suspension or 
extinguishment or 
overriding  
Status of Negotiation 
18_ER 
5c 
The 
covenants, 
restrictions, 
easements and all 
other rights (except 
those for the benefit 
of 
National 
Grid 
Electricity 
Transmission 
plc 
which PPL is in the 
process of agreeing 
protective provisions 
regarding) detailed in 
the fourth column of 
the table at section 
3.3 of the Book of the 
Reference 
(being 
Part 3 of the Book of 
Reference in respect 
of 
the 
Electrical 
Connection) have the 
potential to interfere 
with and hinder the 
construction, 
operation 
and 
maintenance of the 
development 
comprising 
the 
Electrical Connection 
Compound.    
PPL has engaged by 
letter dated and posted 
by recorded delivery on 
23rd June 2014 with 
those listed in the Book 
of Reference who are 
considered to enjoy the 
covenants, restrictions, 
easements 
and 
all 
other rights identified in 
respect of 18_ER.      
PPL has offered to 
enter 
in 
to 
an 
agreement relating to 
the affected rights and 
to pay the professional 
fees of the affected 
parties incurred in such 
process. 
As stated in paragraphs 
5.3.17 
and 
5.3.18 
above, steps will be 
taken to remove or 
reposition 
the 
apparatus 
of 
utilities 
where 
the 
services 
affected 
require 
reinstatement so that 
the 
applicable 
utility 
services 
can 
be 
reinstated, maintained 
and operated.   
 
 
 
 
 
6.7 
Alternatives to Compulsory Acquisition      
6.7.1 
The Project requires the acquisition of land and the acquisition 
of / creation of rights to secure the land and rights (together with 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
98 
the areas of land to be used by PPL in relation to the Project) 
needed to provide the Power Generation Plant, the Gas 
Connection and the Electrical Connection.  Accordingly, there is 
no alternative but to seek to acquire land, the temporary use of 
land and the acquisition of / creation of rights to allow the 
Project to be constructed, operated and maintained.   
6.7.2 
As part of a detailed feasibility assessment, PPL looked at a 
range of sites around the UK to support power generation 
plants of this nature. This search for potential power generation 
plant sites across the UK was focused on areas that were 
capable of meeting PPL‟s strategic project development criteria: 
(a) 
acceptable proximity to national gas and the national 
electricity transmission system or local distribution 
networks; 
(b) 
located within areas that are net importers of electricity; 
and 
(c) 
compatible land use designation/s. 
6.7.3 
In terms of technical constraints, the size of the site (i.e. large 
enough to support a power generation plant of up to 299 MW 
and integral infrastructure) and the proximity of a site to 
appropriate gas and electrical connection points were both key 
considerations.  
6.7.4 
From an environmental perspective, the site must have due 
regard to close sensitive receptors (to avoid unacceptable 
impacts from noise and visual disturbance), the current make 
up of the surrounding area (to limit impacts on the landscape 
character of the area), previous site uses and land quality (to 
avoid sterilisation of the best and most versatile agricultural land 
or mineral assets) and proximity to sensitive ecological habitats.  
6.7.5 
Based on these factors, the Project Site was considered 
suitable for the siting of the Power Generation Plant for the 
following reasons:  
(a) 
its close proximity (<1 km) to the gas NTS; 
(b) 
its close proximity (<1.5 km) to the National Electricity 
Transmission System; 
(c) 
the Power Generation Plant Site is within an existing 
industrial estate; 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
99 
(d) 
the Power Generation Plant Site is surrounded by 
similar industrial developments including Eye Power 
Station and National Grid Compressor Station; 
(e) 
the area is identified in the emerging Eye Airfield 
Development Framework as an area that MSDC has 
aspirations to safeguard for an energy park which may 
include (NSIP) gas fired power station and / or an 
energy from waste site; and 
(f) 
there is adequate space on site to develop the Power 
Generation Plant and integral infrastructure.  
6.7.6 
The Scoping Report prepared by the Applicant to scope the 
contents of the Environmental Statement (Appendix 3A to 
Document Reference 6.2), identified seven potential Gas 
Connection options to connect the Power Generation Plant to 
Feeder 5 on the NTS.   
6.7.7 
Further analysis from additional studies has determined that five 
of these route corridor options were not feasible.  The reasons 
for this include: 
(a) 
Options known as Options 2, 2a and 2b would pass 
within close proximity to the recently constructed wind 
turbines located to the south of the proposed Power 
Generation Plant Site. This would breach National Grid 
safety guidelines for the positioning of gas pipes and 
wind turbines. Options 2 and 2b would also cross the 
centre of an agricultural field meaning that a large area 
of the field would be rendered unusable. 
(b) 
An option known as Option 3 has been discounted as 
this could produce a barrier between the agricultural 
field to the west and the rest of the Airfield Industrial 
Estate, thus potentially reducing its development value 
in the future.  
(c) 
An option known as Option 5 has been discounted as 
this would require passing through a currently busy and 
operational part of the business park. The construction 
of this option could cause significant disruption to these 
businesses which would not be acceptable. 
6.7.8 
Therefore, the route corridor options known as Options 1 and 4 
were taken forward for consultation.   
6.7.9 
Following consultation, Option 1, which is the shortest, was 
considered favourable due to its most direct and therefore less 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
100 
disruptive route.  This option was found to be technically 
unachievable due to its close proximity to the gas compressor 
station.  Further studies and consultation with National Grid 
found that no safe route or connection point could be found 
within the compression station site. As such, this option had to 
be dropped on technical grounds. 
6.7.10 Following these additional studies, the preferred option for the 
Gas Connection Route Corridor was Option 4 which connects to 
the NTS at the south of the former Eye Airfield.  
6.7.11 An Electrical Connection Siting Report undertaken by PPL 
(Document 
Reference 
10.3) 
considered 
the 
potential 
connection options to the National Electricity Transmission 
System and the local distribution system. This found that the 
area to the west of the A140 between Mellis Road and Goswold 
Hall would be suitable for a new electrical connection 
compound. Two preliminary areas for the siting of the Electrical 
Connection Compound, north (Option 1) and south (Option 2) of 
Goswold Hall, were identified and the Siting Report identified 
that both options present technically feasible options for the 
siting of the Electrical Connection Compound. It considered that 
both options had the potential to give rise to adverse effects on 
visual amenity and landscape character. It considered on 
balance that Option 2 had the greater potential for adverse 
visual impacts (it is closer to residential receptors and 
potentially more exposed) and landscape impact (due to 
existing field boundary structure). However, it also recognised 
that mitigation in the form of landscaping would be available 
and effective.  
6.7.12 It also considered that Option 1 had the potential to give rise to 
adverse effects on: an established watercourse which would 
require diversion and have consequences on the wider 
drainage network; a public right of way which is an ancient 
Green Lane and would require diversion; mature trees and 
hedgerows and associated habitat (including biodiversity 
adjacent to the Green Lane) which would require removal; and 
buried archaeology. As well as the environmental implications, it 
considered that the potential adverse impacts associated with 
Option 1 (in particular the watercourse and drainage effects) 
had 
the 
potential 
to 
increase 
technical 
difficulty 
and 
development costs.  
6.7.13 In view of the availability of mitigation for landscape and visual 
impacts, and the greater number of potentially adverse effects 
associated with Option 1, and the absence of other 
differentiating factors, Option 2 was taken forward.  The 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
101 
Electrical Connection Siting Report (Document Reference 10.3) 
contains more detail on the assessment undertaken by PPL.     
6.8 
Availability of Funds for Compensation   
6.8.1 
The Funding Statement (Document Reference 4.2) confirms 
that PPL has the ability to procure the financial resources 
required for the Project, including the cost of acquiring any land 
and rights and the payment of compensation, as applicable.   
6.8.2 
PPL therefore considers that the Secretary of State can be 
satisfied that the requisite funds for payment of compensation 
will be available at the appropriate time.    
7. 
JUSTIFICATION FOR THE USE OF POWERS OF COMPULSORY 
ACQUISITION     
7.1 
Compelling Case 
7.1.1 
A 
Planning 
Statement 
(Document 
Reference 
10.1) 
accompanies the Application. In addition to the information set 
out above, the Planning Statement explains how the Project:- 
(a) 
meets an urgent need for new energy infrastructure;  
(b) 
is a form of economic development that is suitable in its 
local context; 
(c) 
minimises or mitigates adverse landscape and amenity 
impacts to an acceptable degree; 
(d) 
minimises or mitigates adverse environmental impacts 
to an acceptable degree;  
(e) 
is compliant with NPS EN-1, NPS EN-2, NPS EN-4 and 
NPS EN-5 and in accordance with the other decision-
making factors specified in Section 104 of the Act.     
7.1.2 
The Planning Statement provides an extensive review of these 
matters, which is summarised in the subsequent paragraphs of 
this section.     
7.2 
The Urgent Need for New Gas Fired Power Station Infrastructure  
7.2.1 
The urgent need for flexible gas fired power generating stations 
is acknowledged in recent policy of government at all levels, 
such as within NPS EN-1, the National Infrastructure Plan 2013 
(HM Treasury, 2013), and the Gas Generation Strategy (DECC, 
2012). 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
102 
7.2.2 
The National Policy Statements acknowledge the substantial 
national need for gas generation infrastructure to respond to 
changes in supply and demand and to replace the capacity that 
will be lost through the closure of existing large coal plants, to 
which the Project will directly contribute.   
7.2.3 
Gas-fired generating stations are very well suited to meeting 
„peak‟ load demands as they can be specified with very reliable, 
flexible technology. Peaking plants help to „balance out‟ the grid 
at times of peak electricity demand and also help to support the 
grid at times when intermittent renewable sources cannot 
generate electricity. The chosen technology for a peaking plant 
should maximise reliability for an intermittent pattern of usage, 
and short start-up time. 
7.2.4 
With the substantial recent and forecast increases in 
intermittent sources on the grid, „peaking‟ plants have a 
valuable role in „evening out‟ the power supply to the grid and 
thus complementing renewable sources. Paragraph 1.40 of the 
National Infrastructure Plan 2013 states that new unabated gas 
plants are needed and will be “vital in supplying a backup for 
less flexible renewable generation and ensuring that the system 
can meet peak electricity demand”.  
7.2.5 
Accordingly it can be seen that the Project, being a gas fired 
SCGT generating station, can contribute to the immediate and 
medium term needs for flexible, reliable, peak load power 
generation and facilitate the transition to a low carbon economy.  
It therefore makes a material contribution to attaining UK energy 
policy objectives. 
7.3 
Economic development considerations   
7.3.1 
NPS EN-2 notes that “Fossil fuel generating stations have large 
land footprints and will therefore only be possible where the 
applicant is able to acquire a suitably-sized site” (NPS EN-2, 
paragraph 2.2.2). It is also notes that “Applicants should locate 
new fossil fuel generating stations in the vicinity of existing 
transport routes wherever possible.” These factors have been 
taken into account in selecting the Project Site (see the 
alternatives section at paragraph 6.7 above).  
7.3.2 
Chapter 15 of the Environmental Statement (Document 
Reference 6.1) deals with socio economics and finds that, inter 
alia, the Project would deliver positive socio-economic impacts 
through: employment creation; in the construction, operation 
and decommissioning stages; supply chain linkages for goods 
and services; and workers spending in the local economy. 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
103 
7.3.3 
These effects, with the exception of decommissioning 
employment (which is considered negligible), have been 
assessed to be of minor positive significance.  No adverse 
socio-economic impacts or effects are identified.   
7.3.4 
The construction period is estimated to last 22 months from 
December 2016 to September 2018.  The number of 
construction workers onsite per month ranges from 25 to 127 
during the peak construction period.  
7.3.5 
Gross value added (GVA) is a measure of the value of goods 
and services produced in an area, industry or sector of an 
economy.  Construction GVA per head in Suffolk is £65,099.  It 
is calculated that the construction phase of the Project would 
deliver £8.8 million GVA to the national economy.   
7.3.6 
The construction impact is assessed as a minor beneficial 
impact.   
7.3.7 
The operational phase of the Project would provide an 
estimated 15 full time direct jobs.  The net effect, taking account 
of leakage, displacement and the multiplier effect, would be 14 
additional regional full time jobs and 11 national full time jobs.   
Average GVA per employee in Suffolk is £44,691.  The Project 
would provide approximately £0.6m GVA and £0.5m GVA per 
annum 
to 
the 
local 
economy 
and 
national 
economy 
respectively.   
7.3.8 
In addition, PPL is in discussions with SCC and MSDC over an 
education and employment scheme; the aim being to provide 
the local community the opportunity to benefit from job creation 
as a result of the Project and to use the Project as a means of 
educating people, particularly schoolchildren, on energy 
provision in the UK.   
7.3.9 
PPL is also in discussions with SCC and MSDC over how local 
businesses can be provided with opportunities to bid for 
contacts during the construction and operation periods of the 
Project.   
7.3.10 It is envisaged that these education and employment 
opportunities for the local community would be secured in a 
Section 106 legal agreement.   
7.3.11 In relation to tourism and recreation, the Environmental 
Statement (Document Reference 6.1) shows that no tourism or 
recreation receptors will be significantly impacted during either 
the temporary construction or operational phase of the Project.   
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
104 
7.4 
Amenity and visual impacts  
7.4.1 
In accordance with NPS EN-1, NPS EN-2 and NPS EN-5 an 
assessment of the likely landscape and visual impacts 
associated with the Project has been undertaken. The 
landscape and visual impacts have been considered at the 
construction and operation stages in compliance with the 
requirements of paragraph 5.9.6 of NPS EN-1. 
7.4.2 
Section 2.6 of NPS EN-2 recognises that it is not possible to 
eliminate the visual impacts associated with a fossil fuel 
generation station.  However, mitigation is required to reduce 
the visual intrusion and impact on visual amenity, as far as 
reasonably practicable.  Section 5.9 of NPS EN-1 states that 
adverse landscape and visual effects may be minimised 
through appropriate siting of infrastructure, materials and design 
and landscaping schemes. 
7.4.3 
Whenever possible, the Project's impact has been mitigated 
through design. Commencing with the Project Site and its 
context, the design of the Power Generation Plant, Electrical 
Connection and Gas Connection has been subject to detailed 
consideration and assessment in order to minimise the 
landscape and visual impact. 
7.4.4 
During operation of the Power Generation Plant, Gas 
Connection and Electrical Connection, a number of additional 
mitigation measures would be implemented, in accordance with 
section 5.9 of NPS EN-1 and section 2.6 of NPS EN-2.  
Mitigation measures would include hedgerow planting on the 
perimeter of the site, amenity planting of large trees, and 
designing external lighting to reduce trespass, glare and 
spillage.  
7.4.5 
In order to minimise the impacts of the Project during 
construction, a Construction Environmental Management Plan 
(CEMP) would be implemented.  The CEMP would include a 
number of measures to mitigate the landscape and visual 
impact in accordance with section 5.9 of NPS EN-1 and section 
2.6 of NPS EN-2, including: tree retention and protection, 
temporary storage of topsoil to screen construction works, 
agreed site access points, maintenance of site compound, 
lighting provision in accordance with the principles contained in 
the outline lighting strategy, and reseeding and planting within 
the Project Site. 
7.4.6 
Section 5.9 of NPS EN-1 recognises that all proposed energy 
infrastructure is likely to have visual effects for receptors around 
proposed sites.  However, in determining proposals, a 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
105 
judgement is to be made as to whether the visual effects on 
sensitive receptors outweigh the benefits of a project.     
7.4.7 
The visual element of the assessment identified a moderate 
significant visual impact would be likely to occur at four 
properties lying approximately 600m from the proposed 
Electrical Connection Compound. In the longer term, visual 
effects would be mitigated by screen planting which would take 
approximately 15 years with an air insulated substation. It is 
concluded that the potential impact on living conditions from 
views of the proposed Electrical Connection Compound during 
construction and operation would be acceptable with mitigation, 
and would not be overbearing or oppressive. The conclusion 
was based on the intervening distance, the extent of screening 
from existing and proposed vegetation, and the orientation of 
views from the properties. 
7.4.8 
In terms of Air Quality, the risk of a loss of amenity during 
construction at residential properties would be low due to on the 
site mitigation measures inbuilt into the Project, and the 
distance from residential areas.  Gas combustion does not 
produce any odorous compounds or particulate matter that 
would be visible. 
7.4.9 
The predicted noise levels from the Power  Generation Plant 
would be significantly below the World Health Organisation 
guideline limit for minimal and moderate annoyance.  As such, 
predicted noise levels from the Project to external amenity 
areas of residential dwellings are considered unlikely to cause 
annoyance. 
7.4.10 The design of the Power Generation Plant, Electrical 
Connection and Gas Connection has been subject to detailed 
consideration and assessment in order to minimise the 
landscape and visual impact. There are no significant effects 
anticipated such that this proposal should not be consented on 
amenity and visual Impact grounds. 
7.5 
Environmental Impacts  
7.5.1 
In accordance with NPS EN-1, NPS EN-2, NPS EN-4 and NPS 
EN-5 assessments have been carried out of the likely significant 
environmental effects, and are reported in the Environmental 
Statement (Document Reference 6.1). Significant adverse 
effects on the environment, including any long-term and 
cumulative significant adverse effects, as well as any measures 
to prevent, reduce or offset any significant adverse effects on 
the environment, are considered in that document and are 
summarised here. 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
106 
Air Quality and Emissions  
7.5.2 
In accordance with NPS EN-1 and NPS EN-2, an assessment 
of the likely impacts, in respect of air quality and emissions, has 
been undertaken and the findings are presented in the 
Environmental Statement (Document Number 6.1).   
7.5.3 
The impacts of the Project in respect of air quality and 
emissions have been examined at the construction, operational 
and decommissioning 
phases, in compliance with the 
requirements of NPS EN-1.  The Environmental Statement 
(Document Number 6.1) states that the direct impact of 
operational traffic has been scoped out of the assessment due 
to the low number of daily vehicle movements.   
7.5.4 
In order to minimise impacts during construction, a specific dust 
management plan would be developed as part of the CEMP for 
the Project.  Whilst the risk of dust effects is considered high 
during earthworks, the low sensitivity of the nearest receptors 
(light industrial areas and agricultural land) means that there is 
no requirement for additional monitoring using non-automatic or 
automatic methods. 
7.5.5 
The predicted significance of the impact of the operation of the 
Power Generation Plant is negligible to slight adverse and does 
not warrant further mitigation; however, embedded mitigation of 
the impacts is implicit in the project design, including the 
specification of an appropriate stack height and the use of 
emissions control.  The Project would also require a permit to 
operate which would be monitored by the Environment Agency.   
7.5.6 
As set out above, and presented in the Environmental 
Statement (Document Ref 6.1), there is no expectation of any 
significant adverse impacts in respect of air quality and 
emissions.  Accordingly, the Project meets the aims and 
requirements of relevant national and local planning policies 
and air quality legislation, and thus the Project is considered 
acceptable in respect of air quality and emissions. 
Noise and Vibration  
7.5.7 
In accordance with section 2.7 of NPS EN-2, an assessment of 
the likely noise and vibration impacts associated with the 
Project has been undertaken and the findings are presented in 
Chapter 7 of the Environmental Statement (Document Number 
6.1).  The noise and vibration effects have been considered at 
the construction, operation and decommissioning stages, in 
compliance with the requirements of section 5.11 of NPS EN-1. 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
107 
7.5.8 
It has been assessed that there would be a minor adverse noise 
impact from activities relating to the construction and 
decommissioning of the Power Generation Plant, Gas 
Connection and Electrical Connection.  There would be a minor 
adverse noise impact resulting from the operation of the Power 
Generation Plant and Above Ground Installation, and no noise 
impact from the operation of the Gas Connection (excluding the 
Above Ground Installation) and the Electrical Connection. 
7.5.9 
Section 5.11 of NPS EN-1 and section 2.7 of NPS EN-2 state 
that the primary mitigation for noise from fossil fuel generating 
stations is through good design, including enclosure of plant 
and machinery to minimise the potential for operations to create 
noise.  Paragraph 2.3.16 of NPS EN-2 states that „good design‟ 
should include mitigation of impacts such as noise and 
vibration.  Accordingly, the design of the Power Generation 
Plant, Electrical Connection and Gas Connection has been 
subject to detailed consideration and assessment in order to 
minimise the noise and vibration impact.   
7.5.10 Mitigation measures would be implemented throughout the 
construction, operation and decommissioning stages in order to 
minimise and effectively manage the potential noise and 
vibration effects from the Project.  In this regard, the Project 
meets the aims and requirements of relevant planning policy, 
and thus the Project is considered acceptable in respect of 
noise and vibration. 
Ecology  
7.5.11 In accordance with NPS EN-1, an assessment of the likely 
effects on internationally, nationally and locally designated sites 
of ecological or geological conservation importance, on 
protected species, and on habitats and other species of 
principal importance has been undertaken and the findings are 
presented in the Environmental Statement (Document Number 
6.1).  The impacts of the Project, in respect of biodiversity and 
geological conservation, have been considered at the 
construction, 
operation 
and 
decommissioning 
stage, 
in 
compliance with the requirements of section 5.3 of NPS EN-1.   
7.5.12 Paragraph 5.3.18 of NPS EN-1 states that, during construction, 
appropriate mitigation measures should be included to ensure 
that activities are confined to the minimum areas required for 
the works, and to ensure that the risk of disturbance or damage 
to species is minimised.  Accordingly, a number of designed-in 
mitigation and avoidance measures would be detailed within the 
CEMP to minimise any potential impacts and to ensure a 
permanent, positive residual effect of low magnitude.  These 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
108 
measures would include demarking of root protection zones, 
using Horizontal Directional Drilling, and providing a net gain in 
habitat quantity and quality. 
7.5.13 In order to mitigate the impacts during operation and to ensure 
the residual effect would not be significant, a number of 
mitigation measures are proposed.  These measures include 
mitigation of stack height to provide sufficient dispersion rate, 
drainage design to avoid pollution of water bodies, and 
implementation of a lighting scheme to ensure minimal light 
spillage and directional lighting. 
7.5.14 It is considered that the majority of decommissioning impacts 
would be eliminated through the implementation of an approved 
decommissioning 
scheme 
which 
would 
avoid/minimise 
generation of excessive litter, dust, noise and vibration and 
would prevent accidental pollution of adjacent habitats.  These 
measures would be in line with latest guidance and legislative 
requirements in force at the time of decommissioning.   
7.5.15 The implementation of the mitigation measures set out above 
ensures no significant net loss of Valued Ecological Receptor 
habitats and no significant detrimental effects to any of the 
Valued Ecological Receptor protected species populations.   
7.5.16 It is concluded that there would not be any likely significant 
effects on any European protected site.  A no likely significant 
effects report is therefore submitted with the Application 
(Document Reference 5.7).  
7.5.17 Accordingly, the Project meets the overall objectives of relevant 
planning policy and is considered acceptable in respect of 
biodiversity and geological conservation. 
Water Quality and Resources  
7.5.18 An assessment of the likely effects on water quality and 
resources associated with the Project has been undertaken. 
The impact of the Project on the existing water quality and 
resources has been considered at the construction, operation 
and 
decommissioning 
stage, 
in 
compliance 
with 
the 
requirements of section 5.15 of NPS EN-1. 
7.5.19 It has been assessed that the impacts on water resources from 
the construction of the Power Generation Plant and Gas 
Connection would be negligible.  The construction of the 
Electrical Connection may have a number of slight and 
moderate changes which would not result in any significant 
effects.  During operation, it is anticipated that the Power 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
109 
Generation Plant would not have any significant effects on 
water quality or resources.  The Gas Connection and Electrical 
Connection Cable would be buried and would therefore have no 
impact on water quality or resources. Water usage at the 
Electrical Connection Compound is expected to be minimal. 
7.5.20 During decommissioning of the Power Generation Plant and 
Electrical Connection, similar impacts to those predicted during 
construction may be experienced.  It is anticipated that the 
Pipeline would remain in-situ following decommissioning (as its 
removal would cause more environmental disruption than 
leaving it in place), and thus the impacts would be negligible. 
7.5.21 The main potential impacts that may result from construction of 
the Power Generation Plant are disposal of water from the 
Project Site.  Accordingly, to minimise the potential impacts, all 
construction contractors would be required to reach an 
agreement with the Environment Agency regarding methods of 
disposal.  In addition, embedded mitigation measures would be 
implemented such as working to best practice and in line with a 
detailed CEMP.  There are not anticipated to be any effects on 
water bodies as they are all a sufficient distance from the Power 
Generation Plant Site.   
7.5.22 The Gas Connection is located within close proximity of two 
water bodies, and above a highly sensitive aquifer.  However, 
given the depth of the aquifer and protection afforded by 
overlying low permeability deposits, there are not anticipated to 
be any construction activities that could impact on the aquifer.  
To minimise potential impacts, the Pipeline would be 
hydrostatically tested prior to operation, and the same 
embedded mitigation measures would be implemented as for 
the construction of the Power Generation Plant. 
7.5.23 The Electrical Connection Compound is located in an area that 
is free from surface water bodies.  However, the Cable requires 
the crossing of two surface water bodies and the Access Road 
would cross one water body while passing within close 
proximity to another.  Furthermore much of the Electrical 
Connection is located above a principal aquifer.  To minimise 
potential impacts, water bodies would be crossed using 
Horizontal Directional Drilling in order to ensure that there is no 
interaction between the connection works.  Given the depth of 
the aquifer and protection afforded by overlying low permeability 
deposits along the majority of the route, there are not 
anticipated to be any impacts on the aquifer arising from the 
development of the Cable in the Electrical Connection Route 
Corridor or the construction and operation of the Electrical 
Connection Compound. 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
110 
7.5.24 Following the implementation of the proposed mitigation 
measures, the Project would not have any significant residual 
effects on water quality and resources. On this basis, the 
Project meets the aims and requirements of relevant planning 
policy and no important and relevant considerations arise to the 
contrary, thus the Project is considered acceptable in respect of 
water quality and resources. 
Historic Environment  
7.5.25 Within NPS EN 1, the Applicant‟s Assessment is discussed at 
paragraph 5.8.8. and this reads as follows:  “As part of the ES 
(see Section 4.2) the applicant should provide a description of 
the significance of the heritage assets affected by the proposed 
development and the contribution of their setting to that 
significance. The level of detail should be proportionate to the 
importance of the heritage assets and no more than is sufficient 
to understand the potential impact of the proposal on the 
significance of the heritage asset…” 
7.5.26 In this case the significance of the heritage assets has been 
assessed in line with the appropriate guidelines.  
7.5.27 A detailed geophysical survey of the Electrical Connection 
Compound option areas has been carried out.  The findings of 
this geophysical survey, which was designed to detect potential 
buried 
archaeological 
remains, 
suggest 
that 
buried 
archaeological remains may be present within the area of 
Electrical Connection Compound Option 1. No such findings 
have been identified by the geophysical survey within the area 
of Electrical Connection Compound Option 2. Electrical 
Connection Compound Option 1 is also much closer to the 
Grade II listed Goswold Hall (approx 300m North East).  
Therefore avoiding potential damage to archaeological remains 
and minimising any potential impact upon the setting of a listed 
building have been considerations in site choice (Option 2 being 
taken forward). 
7.5.28 Issues relating to the Historic Environment have been 
addressed in the Mitigation Schedule and a Written Scheme of 
Investigation (WSI) has been agreed with the County 
Archaeologist. (Table 13.10 of the Environmental Statement, 
Section 13, Document Reference 6.1).  This sets out 
investigative measures such as evaluation trenching prior to 
construction, and monitoring of ground disturbance during 
construction and topsoil stripping activities.  
7.5.29 There are no significant effects anticipated on the historic 
environment or on the setting of heritage assets such that this 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
111 
proposal should not be consented on Historic Environment 
Grounds.   
Waste  
7.5.30 NPS EN-1 sets out assessment principles that are particularly 
likely to be relevant to energy nationally significant infrastructure 
projects. In particular, section 5.14 sets out the „waste 
hierarchy‟ and explains the relationship with the environmental 
permitting regime, and sets assessment principles to be used 
by the Secretary of State in determining an application for an 
energy NSIP.  
7.5.31 A CEMP will be produced, which provides for the submission of 
construction method statements and a Site Waste Management 
Plan for approval by the local authority prior to commencement 
of construction, secured by a requirement attached to the 
Order. Measures would include, amongst others, the stockpiling 
of excavated spoil and testing for Waste Acceptance Criteria, to 
determine whether it can be re-used on- or off-site, and the 
testing and removal, as appropriate, of any water from de-
watering activities which would be handled by a suitably 
licensed waste contractor.  Any water that has to be removed 
for example from de watering foundation works or trenches 
would also be tested and removed as required by legislation.  
7.5.32 There are no significant waste management effects expected 
and no reason why the Project should not be consented on 
waste management grounds. 
Combined Heat and Power 
7.5.33 The Energy Efficiency Directive 2012 (2012/27/EU) was 
adopted on 15 October 2012 and is to be implemented in 
Member States on 5 June 2014. Member States are expected, 
therefore, to have in force national legislation which will 
implement the Directive by 5 June 2014 although it is also 
directly effective. The Directive supports cogeneration in the 
form of CHP but sets out clear and specific suggested 
exemptions. One of these is for peak load and back-up 
electricity generating installations planned to operate under 
1,500 operating hours per year (as a rolling average over a 
period of 5 years). 
7.5.34 It is considered that the absence of CHP in the above context is 
not a significant consideration and that the need to deliver 
flexible gas generation in an immediate timescale, including 
peaking plants which are recognised at EU and UK levels of law 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
112 
and policy as a necessary type of energy generation, is of 
significance. 
7.5.35 It is therefore considered that the due regard has been paid to 
relevant guidance as required by NPS EN-1, both past and 
current, and that the general requirement to provide for CHP 
should be set aside due to the particular operating mode of the 
proposed Power Generation Plant, which will serve a 
recognised need for flexible gas generation.  
7.6 
Conclusion on the case for the Project  
7.6.1 
The urgent need for electricity generation, including gas fired 
generating  stations and unabated flexible gas and peaking 
plants, is provided in NPS EN-1, the Gas Generation Strategy 
(DECC, 2012) and the National Infrastructure Plan (HM 
Treasury, 2013). The Project would contribute materially to 
meeting this need. 
7.6.2 
Due regard has been paid to all relevant and important 
considerations. These include the findings of community and 
statutory consultation processes which, as documented in the 
Consultation 
Report 
(Document 
Reference 
5.1), 
have 
influenced considerations as to the design and siting of the 
various 
components 
of 
the 
Project. 
Local 
economic 
development and environmental policy designations have been 
considered in the design, siting and mitigation proposals within 
the Project. 
7.6.3 
The Project is in line with the relevant National Policy 
Statements, being NPS EN-1, NPS EN-2, NPS EN-4, and NPS 
EN-5.  Considerations as to siting, Habitats and Species 
Regulations, alternatives, good design, consideration of 
Combined Heat and Power, grid connection, safety, health, 
nuisance and security have been given due regard as 
demonstrated in the Environmental Statement (Document 
Reference 6.1) and its appendices (Document Reference 6.2), 
the Design and Access Statement and its appended Design 
Principles Statement (Document Reference 10.2), the Planning 
Statement (Document Reference 10.1) and the Grid Connection 
Statement (Document Reference 9.1). The Environmental 
Statement has also assessed all relevant likely significant 
environmental effects and has proposed appropriate mitigation 
wherever feasible. This is to be secured through compliance 
with various submitted documents and further approvals such 
as under the proposed requirements attached to the draft Order 
(see Schedule 2 to the draft Order, Document Reference 3.1).   
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
113 
7.6.4 
It is considered that there are no relevant adverse impacts or 
disbenefits sufficient to outweigh the likely benefits of the 
Project including the improvements to the appearance and 
condition of the Power Generation Plant Site, the local and 
regional economic benefits, and the considerable public benefit 
to meeting the national need for flexible gas generation. 
7.6.5 
PPL has maintained dialogue throughout the pre-application 
period with local authorities, political representatives, the 
Environment Agency and other consultees and regulators, and 
will continue to do so at all relevant stages prior to the operation 
of the Project, if the Order is made. 
7.6.6 
It is considered that there are no international obligations that 
would be breached if the Order were made in the terms 
proposed. There are considered to be no likely significant 
effects in respect of sites designated under the Habitats 
Directive nor species protected thereunder as set out in the no 
likely significant effects report submitted with the Application 
(Document Reference 5.7) 
7.6.7 
In conclusion and in line with the factors set out in Section 104 
of the Act there is a compelling case in the public interest for the 
Order to be made in the terms proposed and in the absence of 
sufficient indications to the contrary.   
8. 
SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS   
8.1 
Special Category Land – Crown Land 
8.1.1 
There are no Crown interests included in or affected by the 
Order Land.  
8.2 
Special Category Land – Open Space 
8.2.1 
No open space, common land fuel or field garden allotment is 
included in or affected by the Order Land. 
8.3 
Statutory Undertakers Land 
8.3.1 
The Order Land includes an overhead electricity line (owned 
and operated by NGET).  Whilst the Project would eventually 
connect into this line, PPL, in constructing the Project, would 
not affect the overhead line (PPL is in discussions with NGET 
over any Protective Provisions NGET may require to be 
included in the Order).   
8.3.2 
The Order Land also contains equipment and apparatus owned 
by UK Power Networks (Operations) Limited.  The Project 
would not affect this equipment and apparatus.    
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
114 
8.3.3 
Schedule 5 (Statutory Undertakers) of the Book of Reference 
has been included in order to allow for the compulsory 
acquisition of the rights of the statutory undertakers, pursuant to 
article 28 of the draft Order.  This article will not take effect if a 
statutory undertaker is not listed within the Book of Reference 
(via, in this case, Schedule 5).  PPL has taken the following 
approach when dealing with responses from statutory 
undertakers: 
(a) 
where PPL has received satisfactory response from a 
statutory undertaker stating that it has apparatus within 
the Order Limits, this has been recorded in the Book of 
Reference within the relevant plot number(s) and that 
statutory undertaker has been omitted from Schedule 5; 
(b) 
where PPL has received a response from a statutory 
undertaker confirming that it does not have any 
apparatus within the Order Limits, that statutory 
undertaker has been omitted from the Book of 
Reference entirely; 
(c) 
where PPL has received a response from a statutory 
undertaker stating that it is unsure whether it has assets 
within the Order Limits; or, where no response has 
been received at all, the statutory undertaker is listed in 
Schedule 5.   
 
8.4 
Other consents 
8.4.1 
Other consents are required in order for the Project to be 
constructed and subsequently operate.  The Consents 
Management Document (Document Reference 5.6) sets out the 
additional consents required and when they will be applied for.  
Some of these additional consents are identified below:   
Generation Licence  
8.4.2 
As required under Section 6 of the Electricity Act 1989, PPL will 
submit an application for a Generation Licence to the Gas and 
Electricity Markets Authority prior to any operational activities 
taking place. 
Connection Agreement with NGET 
8.4.3 
PPL entered into a Bilateral Connection Agreement and 
Construction Agreement with NGET on 12 November 2013 to 
connect the Power Generation Plant to the National Electricity 
Transmission System.  
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
115 
Environmental Permit  
8.4.4 
As required by the Environmental Permitting (England and 
Wales) Regulations 2010 as amended, PPL will submit an 
application for an Environmental Permit, required to operate the 
Project, to the Environment Agency.  PPL has been in 
discussions 
with 
the 
Environment 
Agency 
about 
an 
Environmental Permit and supplied the Environment Agency 
with detailed information in relation to the same. PPL is seeking 
to produce a Statement of Common Ground with the 
Environment Agency before any examination of the Order.   
European Protected Species Licence 
 
8.4.5 
No European Protected Species have been identified to date.  
Discussions with Natural England will be commenced in the 
event that any European Protected Species are identified in 
further protected species surveys. 
Ordinary Water Course Consent  
8.4.6 
A consent under the Land Drainage Act 1991, as amended by 
the Flood and Water Management Act 2010 (ordinary water 
course consent), will be required in relation to the Project.  An 
application for an Ordinary Watercourse Consent will be 
submitted two months prior to commencement of the works. 
Permit to emit CO2 
8.4.7 
The Greenhouse Gas Emissions Trading Scheme Regulations 
2005 require any operator that carries out a 'regulated activity' 
to have a permit. Regulated activities include combustion that 
uses large amounts of energy or generate large amounts of 
CO2, perfluorocarbons or nitrous oxide (NO2) (under Annex 1 of 
Directive 2009/29/EC) and so will capture the Project unless an 
exemption applies. 
9. 
HUMAN RIGHTS 
9.1 
The Human Rights Act 1998 incorporated into UK law the European 
Convention on Human Rights (the "Convention").  The Convention 
includes provisions in the form of Articles, the aim of which is to protect 
the rights of the individual.   
9.2 
The following Articles of the Convention are relevant to the Secretary of 
State's decision as to whether the Order should be made so as to 
include powers of compulsory acquisition: 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
116 
9.2.1 
Article 1 of the First Protocol to the Convention  
(a) 
this protects the right of everyone to a peaceful 
enjoyment of possessions and provides that no one can 
be deprived of their possessions except in the public 
interest and subject to the relevant national and 
international laws and principles.   
9.2.2 
Article 6 
(a) 
this entitles those affected by the powers sought in the 
draft Order to a fair and public hearing of any relevant 
objections they may have to the granting of those 
powers.  This includes property rights and can include 
opportunities to be heard in the decision making 
process.  
9.2.3 
Article 8 
(a) 
this protects private and family life, home and 
correspondence.  No public authority can interfere with 
these rights except such as in accordance with the law 
and is necessary in the interest of national security, 
public safety or the economic well-being of the country.   
9.2.4 
The Secretary of State, as the decision maker, is under a duty 
to consider whether the exercise of powers interacts with the 
rights protected by the Convention.   
9.2.5 
The draft Order has the potential to infringe the rights of 
persons who hold interests in land within the Order Limits under 
Article 1 of the First Protocol.  Such an infringement is 
authorised by law so long as: 
(a) 
the statutory procedures for making the Order are 
followed and there is a compelling case in the public 
interest for the inclusion of powers of compulsory 
acquisition in the Order; and 
(b) 
the 
interference 
with 
the 
convention 
right 
is 
proportionate.   
9.2.6 
In preparing the Application, PPL has considered the potential 
infringement of the Convention rights in consequence of the 
inclusion of compulsory acquisition powers within the draft 
Order.  PPL considers that there would be a very significant 
public benefit arising from the grant of the Order.  The benefit is 
only realised if the Order is accompanied by the grant of powers 
of compulsory acquisition.  PPL has concluded on balance that 
the significant public benefits outweigh the effects upon persons 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
117 
who own property within the Order Land.  For those affected by 
expropriation or dispossession, compensation is payable in 
accordance with the statutory compensation code.   
9.2.7 
In relation to Article 6, there has been opportunity to make 
representations regarding the preparation of the Application.  In 
accordance with Part 5 of the Act, PPL has consulted with 
persons set out in the categories contained in Section 44 of the 
Act, which includes owners of land within the Order Limits and 
those who may be able to make claims either under Sections 7 
and 10 of the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965 in respect of 
injurious affection or under Part 1 of the Land Compensation 
Act 1973.  Also, the beneficiaries of rights overridden by the 
exercise of powers in the draft Order would be capable of 
making claims under Section 10 of the Compulsory Purchase 
Act 1965.   
9.2.8 
Furthermore, representations can also be made in response to 
any notice given under Section 56 of the Act for consideration 
at examination of the Application by the examining authority 
and in any written representations procedure which the 
examining authority decides to uphold or at any compulsory 
purchase hearing held under Section 92 of the Act.   
9.2.9 
Should the Order be made, any person aggrieved may 
challenge the Order in the High Court if they consider that the 
grounds for doing so are made out pursuant to Section 118 of 
the Act.   
9.2.10 In relation to matters of compensation for land to be acquired, 
affected persons have the right to apply to the Upper Tribunal 
(Lands Chamber), which is an independent judicial body to 
determine the compensation payable.   
9.2.11 For the above reasons, any infringement of the Convention 
rights of those whose interests are affected by the inclusion in 
the draft Order of powers of compulsory acquisition, is 
proportionate and legitimate and is in accordance with national 
and European law.  For the reasons set out in Sections 6 and 7 
of this Statement, PPL considers that there is a compelling case 
in the public interest for the exercise of such powers of 
compulsory acquisition.  PPL considers that it would, therefore, 
be appropriate and proportionate for the Secretary of State to 
make the Order, including the grant of compulsory acquisition 
powers.    
10. 
FURTHER INFORMATION 
10.1 
Negotiation of Sale 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
118 
10.1.1 Owners and occupiers of property affected by the draft Order 
who wish to negotiate a sale or discuss matters of 
compensation should contact Susannah Harvey of Progress 
Power 
Limited 
(Tel 
- 
0131 
550 
3380, 
email 
- 
sharvey@stagenergy.com) 
10.2 
Compensation 
10.2.1 Provision is made by statute with regard to compensation for 
the compulsory acquisition of land and the depreciation value of 
properties. Helpful information is given in the series of booklets 
published by the Department for Communities and Local 
Government 
entitled 
"Compulsory 
Purchase 
and 
Compensation" listed below:- 
(a) 
Booklet No. 1 - Compulsory Purchase Procedure; 
(b) 
Booklet No. 2 - Compensation to Business Owners and 
Occupiers; 
(c) 
Booklet No. 3 - Compensation to Agricultural Owners 
and Occupiers; 
(d) 
Booklet No.4 - Compensation for Residential Owners 
and Occupiers; and 
(e) 
Booklet No.5 – Reducing the Adverse Effects of Public 
Development: Mitigation Works.  
10.2.2 Copies of these booklets are obtainable, free of charge, from: 
https://www.gov.uk/government/collections/compulsory-
purchase-system-guidance   
 
11. 
CONCLUSIONS 
11.1 
PPL submits, for the reasons explained in this Statement, that the 
inclusion of powers of compulsory acquisition in the draft Order for the 
purposes of the Project meets the conditions of Section 122 of the Act 
as well as the considerations in the Guidance.   
11.2 
The acquisition of land and rights and the temporary use of land, 
together with the overriding of interests, rights and restrictive covenants 
and the suspension or extinguishment of private rights, is no more than 
is reasonably required to facilitate or is incidental to the Project.  
Furthermore, the land identified to be subject to compulsory acquisition 
is no more than is reasonably necessary for that purpose and is 
proportionate, as is shown in the draft Order (Document Reference 3.1), 
the Works Plan (Document Reference 2.7) and other information both in 
this Statement and in other document accompanying the Application.  
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
119 
11.3 
The need for the Project, suitability of the Order Limits and the support 
for such projects is in NPS EN-1, NPS EN-2 and NPS EN-4, which 
demonstrates that there is a compelling case in the public interest for 
the land to be acquired compulsorily.  
11.4 
All reasonable alternatives to compulsory acquisition have been 
explored.  Given the national and local need for the Project and the 
support for it found in policy, as well as the suitability of the Order Land 
(for the reasons outlined above), compulsory acquisition of the land and 
rights and the temporary use of land, together with the overriding of 
interests, rights and restrictive covenants and the suspension or 
extinguishment of private rights is justified.   
11.5 
The proposed interference with the rights of those with an interest in the 
Order Land is for a legitimate purpose, namely the Project, and is 
necessary and proportionate to that purpose.  PPL considers that the 
very substantial public benefits to be derived from the proposed 
compulsory acquisition of the Order Land would decisively outweigh the 
private loss that would be suffered by those whose land is to be 
acquired.   
11.6 
PPL has set out clear and specific proposals regarding how the Order 
Land will be used.   
11.7 
The requisite funds are available to meet any costs of land acquisition 
and compensation payable as a result of the use of powers of 
compulsory acquisition.  
11.8 
The purpose of the powers of compulsory purchase for the Project in 
the DCO are entirely legitimate and justifies interfering with the rights of 
those persons with an interest in the land proposed to be acquired.  
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
120 
SCHEDULE 1 
LIST OF APPLICATION DOCUMENTS  
Application 
Document 
Reference 
 
Application 
Document 
Name 
Statutory 
/ 
Other 
Requirement 
for 
Document  
Category 1 
Application Form 
 
 
1.1 
Introduction 
to 
the 
Applicant 
and 
the 
Application (this document) 
 
Reg. 5(2)(q) 
1.2 
Application form 
S.37(3)(b) and Reg. 5(1) 
 
1.3 
Copies 
of 
newspaper 
notices 
Reg. 5(2)(q) and PINS 
Advice Note 6 
 
Category 2 
Plans 
/ 
Drawings 
/ 
Sections 
 
 
2.1 
Location Plan 
 
Reg. 5(2)(o) 
2.2 
Existing Site Layout Plan 
 
Reg. 5(2)(o) 
2.3 
Not Used 
 
Not Used 
2.4 
Indicative Site Layout Plans 
 
Reg. 5(2)(o) 
2.5 
Indicative 
Elevation 
Drawings  
 
Reg. 5(2)(o) 
2.6 
Land Plans 
 
Reg. 5(2)(i) 
2.7 
Works Plans 
 
Reg. 5(2)(j) 
2.8 
Rights of Way, Streets and 
Access Plan 
 
Reg. 5(2)(k) 
2.9 
Outline Landscaping Plans  
 
Reg. 5(2)(o) 
2.10 
Outline Lighting Layout  
 
Reg. 5(2)(o) 
Category 3 
Draft 
Development 
Consent Order 
 
 
3.1 
Draft 
Development  
Consent Order 
Reg. 5(2)(b) 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
121 
Application 
Document 
Reference 
 
Application 
Document 
Name 
Statutory 
/ 
Other 
Requirement 
for 
Document  
 
3.2 
Explanatory Memorandum 
 
Reg. 5(2)(c) 
Category 4 
Compulsory Acquisition 
Information 
 
 
4.1 
Statement of Reasons 
 
Reg. 5(2)(h) 
4.2 
Funding Statement 
 
Reg. 5(2)(h) 
4.3 
Book of Reference 
 
Reg. 5(2)(d) and Reg. 7 
Category 5 
Reports / Statements 
 
 
5.1 
Consultation Report 
 
S.37(3)(c) 
5.2 
Consultation 
Report 
Appendices  
 
S.37(3)(c) 
5.3 
Consultation Report NTS 
 
S.37(3)(c) 
5.4 
Flood Risk Assessment 
 
Reg. 5(2)(e) 
5.5 
Statement of Engagement 
of Section 79(1) of the 
Environmental 
Protection 
Act 1990 
 
Reg. 5(2)(f) 
5.6 
Details of Other Consents 
and Licences 
 
Reg. 5(2)(q) and PINS 
Advice Note 6 
5.7 
No 
Significant 
Effects 
Report   
Reg.5(2)(g) 
 
Category 6 
Environmental 
impact 
assessment and habitats 
regulations information 
 
 
6.1 
Environmental Statement 
Reg. 
5(2)(a) 
and 
Infrastructure 
Planning 
(Environmental 
Impact 
Assessment) Regulations 
2009.  
 
Document 6.1 includes 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
122 
Application 
Document 
Reference 
 
Application 
Document 
Name 
Statutory 
/ 
Other 
Requirement 
for 
Document  
within it the following: 
 
(i) Assessment of any 
effects 
on 
sites 
or 
features 
of 
nature 
conservation (etc), at ES 
Section 8, Ecology and 
Nature 
Conservation, 
subsection 
8.15 
(Reg.5(2)(l)); and 
 
(ii) Assessment of any 
effects 
on 
sites 
or 
features of the historic 
environment, 
at 
ES 
Section 
13, 
Cultural 
Heritage 
and 
Archaeology, subsection 
13.12 (Reg.(5)(2)(m)).  
 
6.2 
Environmental 
Statement 
Appendices 
Reg. 
5(2)(a) 
and 
Infrastructure 
Planning 
(Environmental 
Impact 
Assessment) Regulations 
2009.   
 
Document 6.2 includes 
within it the following: 
 
(i) Environmental impact 
scoping 
report 
and 
scoping opinion at ES 
Volume A, Appendix 3.A 
and 3.B (Reg.5(2)(a)); 
 
(ii) Plans showing sites or 
features 
of 
nature 
conservation 
(etc) 
at 
Figures 
8.1 
and 
8.2 
(Reg.5(2)(l)); and 
 
(iii) Plans showing sites 
or features of the historic 
environment at Figures 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
123 
Application 
Document 
Reference 
 
Application 
Document 
Name 
Statutory 
/ 
Other 
Requirement 
for 
Document  
13.1 (Reg.5(2)(m)).  
 
6.3 
Environmental 
Statement 
Figures  
Reg. 
5(2)(a) 
and 
Infrastructure 
Planning 
(Environmental 
Impact 
Assessment) Regulations 
2009.  
 
6.4 
Environmental 
Statement 
Non-Technical Summary 
Reg. 
5(2)(a) 
and 
Infrastructure 
Planning 
(Environmental 
Impact 
Assessment) Regulations 
2009.  
 
Category 7 
Photographs 
 
 
7.1 
Photographs 
and 
Photomontages 
 
Reg.5(2)(q) 
7.2 
Plans Identifying Locations 
of Photographs 
 
Reg. 5(2)(q) 
7.3 
Index of Photographs 
 
Reg. 5(2)(q) 
Category 8  
Not Used 
 
 
- 
Documents were removed 
from 
category 
8 
and 
redistributed 
within 
the 
other categories.  
 
- 
Category 9  
Additional Information for 
Specific 
Types 
of 
Infrastructure 
 
 
9.1 
Grid Connection Statement 
 
Reg.5(2)(p) 
and 
Reg.6(1)(a) 
9.2 
Gas Connection Statement 
 
Reg.5(2)(p) 
and 
Reg.6(1)(a) 
Category 10 Other Documents 
 
 
10.1 
Planning Statement 
 
Reg. 5(2)(q) 
10.2 
Design 
and 
Access Reg. 5(2)(q) 
 
 
 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
124 
Application 
Document 
Reference 
 
Application 
Document 
Name 
Statutory 
/ 
Other 
Requirement 
for 
Document  
Statement 
 
10.3 
Electrical Connection Siting 
Report  
Reg. 5(2)(q) 
10.4 
Statement 
of 
Proposed 
Heads of Terms for an 
Agreement 
Pursuant 
to 
s106 of the TCPA 1990  
Reg. 5(2)(q) 
10.5 
Ecological 
Management 
Strategy 
Reg. 5(2)(q) 
10.6 
Landscape 
Mitigation 
Strategy  
Reg. 5(2)(q) 
 
 
