 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Planning Act 2008 
 
Progress Power Gas Fired Power Station 
 
Examining Authority’s Report of Findings, Conclusions 
and 
Recommendation to the 
 
Secretary of State for Energy and Climate Change 
 
 
_______________________________________ 
 
 
Jonathan Green 
 
Examining Authority 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
24 April 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This page intentionally left blank 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Examining Authority’s findings, conclusions and 
recommendation in respect of the Progress Power Gas Fired 
Power Station 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
File Ref EN 010060 
 
The application, dated 31 March 2014, was made under section 37 of the 
Planning Act 2008 and was received in full by The Planning Inspectorate 
on 31 March 2014. The applicant is Progress Power Limited. 
 
The proposed development comprises a simple cycle gas fired power plant 
with capacity of between 50 and 299 MWe, integral gas and electrical 
cable connections and associated development comprising an electrical 
connection compound, access road and A140 junction.  
 
The application was accepted for examination on 25 April 2014 and the 
Preliminary Meeting was held on 24 July 2014. 
 
The Examination of the application was completed on 24 January 2015. 
 
 
Summary of Recommendation:  
The Examining Authority recommends that the Secretary of State should 
make the Order in the form attached. 
 
 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
1 
 
Section Contents 
 
 
1 INTRODUCTION ........................................................................... 3 
2 MAIN FEATURES OF THE PROPOSAL AND SITE ................................. 6 
3 LEGAL AND POLICY CONTEXT ...................................................... 16 
4 FINDINGS AND CONCLUSIONS IN RELATION TO POLICY AND FACTUAL 
ISSUES ..................................................................................... 23 
MAIN ISSUES IN THE EXAMINATION .............................................. 23 
THE PRINCIPLE OF THE DEVELOPMENT ............................................ 28 
EMISSIONS ........................................................................... 32 
BIODIVERSITY ........................................................................ 39 
LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL IMPACT .................................................. 41 
HERITAGE AND HISTORIC ASSETS ................................................ 50 
TRAFFIC AND TRANSPORT .......................................................... 71 
SOCIO-ECONOMIC IMPACTS ........................................................ 74 
HEALTH ................................................................................ 76 
S106 AGREEMENT ................................................................... 77 
5 FINDINGS AND CONCLUSIONS IN RELATION TO HABITATS 
REGULATIONS ........................................................................... 79 
6 RECOMMENDATION ON THE CASE FOR THE DEVELOPMENT ............. 82 
7 COMPULSORY ACQUISITION AND OTHER LAND MATTERS ............... 92 
8 DRAFT DEVELOPMENT CONSENT ORDER ...................................... 104 
9 SUMMARY OF CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ................ 119 
 
Appendices Contents  
 
APPENDIX 1: EXAMINATION LIBRARY ................................................. 1 
APPENDIX 2: EVENTS IN THE EXAMINATION ..................................... 18 
APPENDIX 3: LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS ............................................. 22 
APPENDIX 4: RECOMMENDED DEVELOPMENT CONSENT ORDER ........... 25 
 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
ERRATA SHEET – Progress Power Gas Fired Power Station – 
EN010060 
 
Examining authority’s Report of Findings and Conclusions and 
Recommendation to the Secretary of State for the Department of 
Energy and Climate Change, dated 24 April 2015 
 
Corrections agreed by the Examining Authority prior to a decision 
being made 
 
Page No. Paragraph 
Error 
Correction 
44 
4.100 
The 1.5 km cable would 
be laid across agricultural 
land and buried to a 
depth of 1.2 m 
The cable of approximately 1.6 km 
would be laid across agricultural 
land and buried to a depth of 1.2 m 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
INTRODUCTION 
1.1 
This application for a development consent order (DCO) for the 
Progress Power Gas Fired Power Station was submitted by 
Progress Power Limited (the applicant) on 31 March 2014. The 
application was formally accepted for examination on 25 April 
2014 under the provisions of section 55 of the Planning Act 
2008 (as amended) (PA 2008).  
1.2 
The application is for the construction operation and 
maintenance of a simple cycle gas fired 'peaking' power 
generating plant with a capacity of between 50 - 299 MWe (the 
generation plant) on land at and surrounding the former Eye 
Airfield in Eye, Mid Suffolk. The location is shown in Figure 1.1 
to the Environmental Statement (ES) (APP-035). As such it is a 
Nationally Significant Infrastructure Project (NSIP) as defined in 
section 14(1)a and section 15 of PA 2008. A pipeline connection 
to bring gas to the generation plant and an underground 
electrical cable for the export of electricity are specified as 
integral to the NSIP. An Electrical Connection Compound (ECC) 
comprising a new substation and a sealing end compound are 
proposed as associated development. An access road to the ECC 
with a new road junction off the A140 is also proposed as 
associated development. The draft DCO includes provisions for 
compulsory acquisition. 
1.3 
The application is Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) 
development as defined by Regulation 2(1) of The 
Infrastructure Planning (Environmental Impact Assessment) 
Regulations 2009 (as amended). It was accompanied by an ES 
which in my view complies with these Regulations. The ES (APP-
024 to APP-040) was compiled following consultation on an 
earlier Scoping Report (PD-001) and takes into account the 
views of the Secretary of State set out in a Scoping Opinion 
published in June 2013 (PD-002). 1 
1.4 
Following acceptance of the application I, an Examining 
Inspector with the Planning Inspectorate, was appointed as 
Examining Authority (ExA) by the Secretary of State on 25 June 
2014 to carry out the Examination of the application.  
1.5 
The application has been examined under the provisions of PA 
2008 and The Infrastructure Planning (Examination Procedure) 
Rules 2010 (as amended) (EPR). The accepted application was 
advertised by the applicant and 108 relevant representations 
were received from interested parties (IP). In addition I 
accepted into the Examination additional application 
documentation, two late representations and one request to 
1 References such as APP-024and PD-001 are to documents submitted by the applicant, statutory 
bodies and interested parties, records of hearings, procedural decisions and other project documents. 
These are listed in full in the Examination Library set out at Appendix 1. 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
3 
                                       
 
 
become an interested party under the provisions of s102A of PA 
2008, all submitted prior to the Preliminary Meeting. (DEC-005, 
DEC-006)  
1.6 
On 1 July 2014 I gave notice of the Preliminary Meeting to be 
held in Diss, Norfolk on 24 July 2014 and issued an initial 
assessment of principal issues that I expected to consider 
during the Examination with a draft timetable for the 
Examination (DEC- 004). On 4 August 2014 I issued the 
timetable for the Examination and my first set of written 
questions and requests for information (DEC-006,-007). A 
second round of questions was issued later in the Examination 
(DEC-011).  
1.7 
A joint Local Impact Report (LIR) was submitted by Mid Suffolk 
District Council (MSDC) and Suffolk County Council (SCC) (REP-
051)  
1.8 
An Open Floor Hearing (OFH) was requested and was held on 
15 October 2014. On 16 October 2014 I held an Issue Specific 
Hearing (ISH) on the local impact of the project and the draft 
DCO and a further ISH on local impact, the draft DCO and any 
remaining LIR issues was held on 10 and 11 December 2014. A 
compulsory acquisition hearing (CAH) was held on 9 December 
2014. 
1.9 
I carried out an accompanied site visit on 14 October 2014 
during which I visited the proposed site for the generation 
plant, a number of locations in the vicinity from which the NSIP 
and the associated development would be visible and local 
roads that would be used by construction traffic (DEC-009). I 
also made unaccompanied site visits to locations from which the 
application site is visible. A list of events in the Examination is 
set out in Appendix 2.  
1.10 
In addition to the DCO the proposed development would require 
an environmental permit from the Environment Agency (EA) 
controlling emissions from the generation plant, a permit to 
emit CO2, a generation licence, a number of permits from MSDC 
and SCC and commercial agreements with National Grid in 
respect of supply of gas and export of electricity.  
1.11 
Separate consent not covered by this application would be 
required for a replacement overhead line (OHL) tower to the 
north of the ECC replacing an existing tower, temporary 
diversion of the existing OHL and down leads to connect the 
ECC to the OHL (the National Grid Works). These works have 
been taken into account in the ES in considering the cumulative 
impact of the proposed development. 
1.12 
To carry out these works National Grid would require land rights  
for temporary access for construction and for permanent access 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
4 
 
for maintenance. National Grid would also require consents for 
the National Grid Works, and those consents would depend on 
the final detailed design of the National Grid Works and ECC. 
Whether permitted development rights would be available to 
National Grid Electricity Transmission (NGET) would depend on 
detailed design. If permitted development rights and voluntary 
land rights are not obtainable NGET has agreed to seek 
consents and land rights. Its 'best case' estimate is that it would 
require a period of 12 – 24 months to do so but NGET cannot 
guarantee that that all necessary section 37 consents and land 
rights as may be required in respect of the National Grid Works 
can definitely be obtained to enable the works to be connected 
by the agreed connection date. 
1.13 
The proposed development could have a significant effect on a 
number of European sites as defined in Regulation 3 of the 
Conservation of Habitats and Species Regulations 2010 (the 
Habitats Regulations 2010) and therefore an appropriate 
assessment of the implications for any European sites may need 
to be carried out by the Secretary of State.2 This is considered 
further in section 5 of this report and, to assist the Secretary of 
State, a Report on the Implications for European Sites (RIES) 
has been prepared (REP-095).  
1.14 
In accordance with sections 83(1)(b)(i) and (ii) of PA 2008, this 
report sets out my findings and conclusions in respect of the 
application and my recommendation to the Secretary of State 
as to the decision to be made on the application.  
2 European sites include Special Areas of Conservation (SACs), candidate SACs (cSACs) and Special 
Protection Areas (SPAs), which are protected under the Habitats Regulations. As a matter of policy, 
Government also applies the procedures of the Habitats Regulations to potential SPAs (pSPAs), 
Ramsar sites, and (in England) listed or proposed Ramsar sites and possible Special Areas of 
Conservation, and sites identified, or required, as compensatory measures for adverse effects on any 
of the above sites. 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
5 
                                       
 
 
2 
MAIN FEATURES OF THE PROPOSAL AND SITE 
The applicant and application site 
2.1 
The applicant company has been set up by Watt Power Limited 
(WPL) as a special purpose vehicle to develop this project. WPL 
is a developer of flexible gas fired generation assets 
incorporated in Scotland and is a subsidiary of Noble Clean 
Fuels Limited (NCFL) incorporated in England. NCFL is itself a 
wholly owned subsidiary of Noble Group Limited incorporated in 
Bermuda. WPL is resourced through Stag Energy established in 
2002 which has delivered over 10,000 MW of power generation 
and related infrastructure projects worldwide of which 2,500 
MW is in the United Kingdom. 
2.2 
The proposed generation plant and the gas connection would be 
sited on land located on the former Eye Airfield which is now 
home to several industrial parks, the 12.7 MW Eye Chicken 
Litter Power Plant and a National Grid Gas Compressor station. 
There are also four 130 m high wind turbines. National Grid 
electricity transmission lines are carried on pylons 
approximately 1km to the west of the former Airfield, running in 
a north-south direction through the parishes of Yaxley and 
Thrandeston.  
2.3 
The proposed electrical cable would have a total length of 
approximately 1.6 km. It would run underground to the west of 
the generation plant passing under the north-south A140 
Ipswich to Norwich road and beneath agricultural land to the 
ECC, also in agricultural land, where connection would be made 
through a sub-station and sealing end compound to the existing 
400 kV overhead transmission line. A new access road to the 
ECC to the west of the A140 would follow the line of the cable. 
A new junction would provide access from the A140. 
2.4 
The generation plant would be located about 1 km north of the 
town of Eye. The ECC would be to the north and north-west of 
the village of Yaxley and less than 500 m from the nearest 
residential properties. The proposed location for the project site 
is within the administrative boundary of MSDC which itself lies 
within the county of Suffolk. The location is shown in Figure 1.1 
to the ES (APP-035). 
2.5 
As described in the LIR (REP-051), the development is located 
within the parishes of Eye and Yaxley and abutting the parish of 
Thrandeston. The former is an historic market town with a 
population of approximately 2,200, while Yaxley is a small rural 
settlement with a population of around 600 and Thrandeston, 
approximately 150. The surrounding area is host to a number of 
other small villages, such as Mellis, Brome and Oakley, 
Thornham Parva, Thornham Magna and Thorndon – all with 
populations in this lower range.  
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
6 
 
2.6 
This area of North Suffolk is gently rolling clayland landscape, 
dissected by small river valleys with a field pattern of ancient 
(pre- 18th Century), random and some co-axial enclosures. 
Small patches of straight-edged fields are associated with the 
later enclosure of woods and greens. Hedges of hawthorn and 
suckering elm with oak, ash and field maple as hedgerow trees 
are locally characteristic.  
2.7 
Agricultural intensification in the 20th century has thinned out 
the historic field patterns to some extent. However over large 
parts of this area enough remains intact to give a distinctive 
character to the landscape.  
2.8 
There is a dispersed settlement pattern of loosely clustered 
villages, hamlets and isolated farmsteads of medieval origin, 
with villages often associated with medieval greens. There are 
often large flat areas between river valleys; these were, or are, 
the locations of large greens which were later deemed to make 
suitable locations for airfields. This is the case with Brome 
Common, which was absorbed into the northern portion of RAF 
Eye (1943-62) although it had been enclosed prior to this.  
2.9 
Farmstead buildings are predominantly timber-framed, the 
houses colour-washed and the barns blackened with tar. Roofs 
are frequently tiled, though thatched houses can be locally 
significant. There remains a strong vernacular character to the 
settlements.  
2.10 
At Eye, recent excavations on the north side of a tributary of 
the River Dove have revealed an extensive Anglo-Saxon 
settlement overlying evidence of earlier Bronze Age and Iron 
Age activity. The core of the market town of Eye lies on the 
other side of the tributary and, as its name implies, occupies an 
elevated ‘island’ surrounded by low-lying land, including a 
probable former mere on its south-west side. Central to the 
town is the important Norman motte-and-bailey castle 
constructed before 1086. The town grew up around the castle 
and owes its distinctive oval street layout to the shape of the 
castle’s baileys.  
2.11 
This rich history is reflected in the large number of heritage 
assets in Eye and in the surrounding area (as depicted in 
Figures 13.1 -13.4 of the ES (APP-038)). Similarly, multiple 
archaeological sites are recorded within or in close proximity to 
the development area, and there is high potential for others.  
The proposed NSIP 
Generation plant 
2.12 
The proposed generation plant as set out in the application and 
described in section 4 of the ES would consist of up to five 
simple cycle gas turbines (SCGT) with combined output of up to 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
7 
 
299MW. The plant is intended to operate as peaking plant 
generating at times of peak demand or when other technologies 
such as wind and solar plant cannot generate electricity due to 
weather conditions. Such plant is only expected to operate for 
short periods of time and it is intended that the generation plant 
would operate for a maximum of 1,500 hours per year. 
2.13 
The gas turbine generators would either be aero-derivative 
designs which are particularly suited to fast start-up or a larger 
industrial design suited to longer running periods. If the aero-
derivative design was chosen then three, four or five units 
would be installed to achieve the 299 MW limit. If industrial 
units were chosen then it is likely that only one or two units 
would be used. 
2.14 
Hot exhaust gases from the combustion process would be 
discharged to the atmosphere through stacks. No steam cooling 
is required. Typically each turbine would have its own stack but 
it is possible that two units could share a stack. Each stack 
would have a minimum height of 20 m and minimum diameter 
of 4 m and a maximum height of 30 m and maximum width of 
10 m. 
2.15 
In addition to the gas turbine generators, the generation plant 
would also include process and fire water tanks, a control 
building, workshop and stores building, a gatehouse, a 
switchyard and banking compound to connect to transformers, 
a gas receiving station to meter and process gas from the 
National Transmission System (NTS) and a black start generator 
to enable the gas generators to be started in the case of a grid 
power failure. 
2.16 
The total area allocated for the generation plant, including 
ancillary equipment and area for construction and maintenance 
is 10 ha. The indicative layout plan for the generation plant 
submitted with the application can be seen at Figure 1 in the 
Indicative Site Layout Plans (APP-010). The generation plant is 
comprised of Work No 1A, 1B, 1C, 1D and 2 in the draft DCO. 
Gas Connection 
2.17 
The gas connection would comprise an above ground installation 
(AGI), Work No 3A and 3B in the draft DCO and an underground 
pipeline, Work No 4. The AGI would include: 
(a) Minimum Offtake Connection (MOC), approximately 30 m x 
30 m, to be owned by National Grid connecting to the high 
pressure NTS with a remotely operable valve, control and 
instrumentation kiosk and electrical supply kiosk; and 
(b) Pipeline Inspection Gauge (PIG) Trap Facility, approximately 
30 m x 23 m, to be owned by the applicant containing PIG 
launching facility, emergency control valve, isolation valve, 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
8 
 
control and instrumentation kiosk and electrical supply 
kiosk. 
2.18 
The gas pipeline would run from the AGI following the southern 
and western boundaries of the Airfield before turning east and 
then north to reach the generation station site. The pipeline 
would be designed, constructed and tested to comply with the 
Institute of Gas Engineers' (IGE) recommendations for high 
pressure pipelines of this sort. The pipeline would be buried no 
less than 1.2 m in agricultural land, no less than 2 m under 
road crossings. The working width of the corridor required to lay 
this pipeline may be approximately 50 m. Aside from special 
crossings where trenchless techniques may be used to reduce 
impact on sensitive areas, the pipeline would be constructed 
using standard open-cut cross-country construction techniques. 
2.19 
The indicative layout for the AGI submitted with the application 
can be seen at Figure 2 in the Indicative Site Layout Plans. The 
route of the gas pipeline is shown in Insert 4.2 in the ES (APP-
024). Access to the AGI would be from an existing access point 
on Castleton Way. 
Electrical Connection 
2.20 
The connection to conduct electricity from the generation plant 
to the National Grid transmission network would be a single 
400kV cable, Work No 6 in the draft DCO. This would initially 
run south from the generation plant site, then turn west along 
the north of agricultural land towards the A140. It would pass 
under the A140, using horizontal directional drilling (HDD), to 
emerge in agricultural land to the west of the A140. It would 
continue west to the proposed site for the ECC crossing Leys 
Lane, a public right of way (PRoW). In open land the cable 
would be buried using the open-cut method to a typical depth of 
1 m. The proposed line for the electrical connection is shown in 
Insert 4.3 of the ES. 
The associated development 
Electrical Connection Compound 
2.21 
The proposed ECC, Work No 5 in the draft DCO, would contain 
the equipment necessary to allow the electricity from the 
generation plant to be exported to the National Grid 
transmission network. It would be composed of a substation 
managing the flows of energy and a sealing end compound 
making the final connection with the transmission line. The 
proposed location for the ECC is shown at the western end of 
the site in Insert 4.3 of the ES. The sealing end compound 
would be on the west side of the existing overhead line and 
would be approximately 45 m x 22 m in dimensions. 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
9 
 
2.22 
The substation, to be located on the east side of the overhead 
line, could be either air insulated (AIS) with the equipment open 
to the air or gas insulated (GIS) with equipment housed in a 
substation hall and associated annexe with electrical insulation 
provided by sulphur hexafluoride gas (SF6). The ground plan for 
the AIS variant would be approximately 150 m x 150 m. The 
ground plan for the GIS option would be approximately 100 m x 
80 m. AIS technology is the applicant's preferred option but 
both options were included in the application. Further details 
were provided during the examination to allow both options to 
be evaluated on equal terms. The indicative layout for the AIS 
variant submitted with the application can be seen in Figure 3 of 
the Indicative Site layout Plans (APP-010). An equivalent 
indicative layout for the GIS option was provided by the 
applicant as Figure 3a in its response to my first questions 
(REP-042).3 
2.23 
In its response to my questions the applicant indicated that the 
GIS option would have an additional capital cost in the region of 
£4m (REP-042, -069). This cost had been provided by NGET as 
an indicative value appropriate to the site. The capital costs 
could change as detailed designs were developed. The applicant 
initially argued that an increase in capital costs of the 
development of £4m could require an increase in a capacity 
contract price of more than £1/kW to maintain an acceptable 
rate of return. It was suggested by the applicant that given the 
way in which the auction price was set in the capacity market 
an increase in the auction clearing price of £1/kW would equate 
to an increase in cost to the UK consumer of £50.8m. In later 
discussion it was established that NGET would be responsible 
for the design and construction of the ECC (REP-072) and that 
any incremental cost of the GIS option would be recovered 
through network charges which would ultimately be borne by 
electricity customers (REP-079). My understanding is that 
pricing in the capacity market would not be affected if costs are 
recovered through NGET's charges. 
Access road and A140 junction 
2.24 
Construction and maintenance access to the west of the A140 
for the cable and the ECC would be provided via a new single 
lane access road across agricultural land with passing places 
along the route of the electrical connection, Work No 7 in the 
draft DCO. A new T junction with the A140 would be 
constructed with 'Give Way' signs onto the A140. The A140 
would be widened to provide for a right hand turn pocket lane 
and an area of safety hatching ('ghost Island'). The extent of 
the works required for the new junction and the access track is 
shown on Insert 4.4 in the ES. 
3 Note that the submitted version of this document is incorrectly titled Response to Written 
Representations. 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
10 
                                       
 
 
Dimensions of the project 
2.25 
The maximum (and, where appropriate, minimum) dimensions 
of the items to be constructed in the project site as set out in 
the ES are shown in Table 2.1. This provides the so called 
Rochdale envelope for the development. Changes were made to 
some of these dimensions during the course of the Examination. 
Table 2.1: Original Proposed Dimensions for the Development 
Building or 
Structure 
Maximum 
height 
(metres above 
existing site 
level of 
approximately 
48.5 metres 
AOD) 
Minimum 
height (metres 
above existing 
site level of 
approximately 
48.5 AOD) 
Maximum 
length 
(metres) 
Minimum 
length 
(metres) 
Maximu
m width 
(metres) 
Minimum 
width 
(metres) 
Each gas 
turbine 
generator 
(where one 
or two gas 
turbine 
generators are 
constructed) 
(Part of 
numbered 
work 1A) 
 
 
19.0 
 
 
 
30.0 
 
 
 
30.0 
 
Each gas 
turbine 
generator 
(where three, 
four or five 
gas turbine 
generators are 
constructed) 
(part of 
numbered 
work 1A) 
 
 
10.0 
 
 
 
36.0 
 
 
 
23.0 
 
Each exhaust 
gas 
emission flue 
stack 
(part of 
numbered 
work 1A) 
 
 
30.0 
 
 
25.0 
 
 
 
 
Control 
room/office/w
orkshop 
(part of 
numbered 
work 1B) 
 
 
6.0 
 
 
 
29.0 
 
 
 
23.0 
 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
11 
 
Building or 
Structure 
Maximum 
height 
(metres above 
existing site 
level of 
approximately 
48.5 metres 
AOD) 
Minimum 
height (metres 
above existing 
site level of 
approximately 
48.5 AOD) 
Maximum 
length 
(metres) 
Minimum 
length 
(metres) 
Maximu
m width 
(metres) 
Minimum 
width 
(metres) 
Black start 
diesel 
generator 
(part of 
numbered 
work 1b) 
 
5.0 
 
 
13.0 
 
 
5.0 
 
Raw/fire water 
tank 
(part of 
numbered 
work 1B) 
 
18.0 
 
 
 
15.0 
 
 
15.0 
 
Demineralised 
water 
tank (part of 
numbered 1B) 
 
16.0 
 
 
23.0 
 
 
23.0 
 
Gas receiving 
station 
(part of 
numbered 
work 
1B) 
 
 
3.0 
 
 
 
50.0 
 
 
 
46.0 
 
Switchyard / 
banking 
compound 
(numbered 
work 1C) 
 
 
11.3 
 
 
 
60.0 
 
 
 
60.0 
 
Switchgear 
Building 
(part of 
numbered 
work 
1C) 
 
 
11.3 
 
 
 
21.0 
 
 
 
15.0 
 
Gatehouse 
(part of 
numbered 
work 1D) 
 
4.5 
 
 
9.0 
 
 
8.0 
 
 
Above ground 
installation 
(numbered 
work 3A) 
 
3.0 
 
 
72.0 
 
 
52.0 
 
Pipeline 
inspection 
gauge facility 
 
 
2.0 
 
 
 
 
36.0 
 
 
 
27.0 
 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
12 
 
Building or 
Structure 
Maximum 
height 
(metres above 
existing site 
level of 
approximately 
48.5 metres 
AOD) 
Minimum 
height (metres 
above existing 
site level of 
approximately 
48.5 AOD) 
Maximum 
length 
(metres) 
Minimum 
length 
(metres) 
Maximu
m width 
(metres) 
Minimum 
width 
(metres) 
(part of 
numbered 
work 3A) 
Minimum 
offtake 
connection 
(part of 
numbered 
work 3A) 
 
2.0 
 
 
36.0 
 
 
25.0 
 
Sealing end 
compound 
(part of 
numbered 
work 
5) 
 
 
12.5 
 
 
 
22 
 
 
 
45 
 
Substation 
(AIS – 
maximum 
compound 
size) (part of 
numbered 
work 5) 
 
 
12.5 
 
 
 
150 
 
 
 
150 
 
Substation 
(GIS – 
maximum 
compound 
size) (part of 
numbered 
work 5) 
 
 
12.5 
 
 
 
80 
 
 
 
100 
 
 
Substation 
(GIS indoor 
switchgear 
hall) (part of 
numbered 
work 5) 
 
 
12.5 
 
 
 
21 
 
 
 
62 
 
 
2.26 
The indicative site layout plans (APP-010), land plans (APP-012) 
and works plans (APP-013) provide supporting detail for the 
application. 
Amendments to application during examination  
2.27 
A number of changes were made to the details of the proposed 
development during the Examination. These were: 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
13 
 
(a) Reduction in the diameter of the raw/fire water tank from 
15 m to 11 m and reduction in its height from 18 m to 11 m 
(APP-076). This followed reassessment of the volume of 
water required for cleaning and emergency purposes. 
(b) Reduction in the diameter of the demineralised water tank 
from 23 m to 2 m and reduction in its height from 16 m to 2 
m (APP-076). This followed a decision to adopt a dry 
process for control of Nitrous Oxides (NOx) rather than the 
wet process originally proposed (REP-042).  
(c) 
Reduction in the maximum width for each exhaust stack 
where one or two gas turbine generators are constructed 
from 10 m to 8.4 m and where three, four or five gas 
turbine generators are constructed from 10 m to 6 m (APP-
078). The 6 m width for the exhaust stacks is consistent 
with the photomontages and visual impact assessment in 
the ES submitted with the application (APP-046). The option 
with five exhaust stacks was considered to be the worst 
case scenario for visual impact. 
(d) Reduction in the order land boundary for the AIS variant by 
about 950 m2 (a reduction of about 4% in the land area 
required). A small change was also made to the boundary 
for the GIS option. This followed a reassessment of the 
amount of land required for the development (AS-036). 
(e) Addition of mounding surrounding the proposed substation 
(AP-084). This was added to provide additional screening as 
part of the landscaping proposals. 
(f) 
Commitment, supported by a requirement in the DCO, that 
the new junction with the A140 should be temporary (for 
the duration of construction) rather than permanent as 
originally proposed and that the land should be reinstated 
(APP-078). This follows reassessment of the need for access 
after completion of construction work. Also a minor 
reduction in the land required for this junction to be subject 
to compulsory acquisition (AS-036). 
2.28 
During the course of the Examination documentation was 
provided for three alternative configurations for the 
development. These are referred to in the following discussion 
as: 
(a) The original application (as amended during the course of 
the Examination); 
(b) The refined application - AIS variant. This principally differs 
from the original application as amended with a reduction in 
the boundary for the ECC; 
(c) 
The GIS variant. This principally differs from the original 
application as amended in the smaller ECC area required for 
the GIS substation.  
2.29 
I reviewed these proposed changes to the scheme during the 
Examination and concluded that they were not ‘material’ in the 
sense that accepting them would be likely to result in prejudice 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
14 
 
to any party. Given this, and having regard to the fact that 
information on the changes had been made available to 
interested parties, I concluded that the changes should be 
accepted for consideration in the examination as part of the 
proposed development (DEC-012). 
Planning history 
2.30 
There have been no other NSIP applications in the immediate 
vicinity of the application site. MSDC and SCC have identified a 
number of energy related planning applications in recent years 
(REP-051). These include: 
(a) Planning permission granted in December 2000 on the land 
subject to the DCO for construction of a small-scale two 
storey biomass energy plant with an electrical output of 5.5 
MW, and ancillary works.  
(b) Planning permission granted in July 2010 for erection on the 
Airfield of two 130m wind turbines, electricity transformer 
and temporary works compound, construction of access 
tracks, hard standings and temporary access alterations. A 
further permission for the erection and operation of an 
additional two wind turbine generators (to a maximum tip 
height of 130m), construction of associated hard standings, 
temporary access tracks and substation compound was 
granted in February 2012.  
(c) 
In the vicinity of the planned ECC an application for an 
400/132 kV electricity substation with a new access road 
(including widening of existing lane) was rejected in 1991on 
the grounds that it would 'detract significantly from the 
character and visual amenity of the countryside'.  
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
15 
 
3 
LEGAL AND POLICY CONTEXT 
3.1 
The application includes a Planning Statement which sets out 
the applicant's view of the policy context for the proposed 
development (APP-051). Additional information on local 
planning policies was provided by MSDC and SCC in their joint 
LIR (REP-051)  
Planning Act 2008 as amended and National Policy 
Statements 
3.2 
The proposed development of a gas fired plant with a with 
capacity of between 50 and 299 MWe is an NSIP as defined in 
section 14(1)a and section 15 of PA 2008. National Policy 
Statements (NPS) in respect of this type of development have 
been designated and the Secretary of State must therefore, 
subject to certain exceptions, decide the application in 
accordance with the relevant NPS as specified in section 104(3) 
of PA 2008. Under section 104(2) the Secretary of State must 
have regard to any relevant NPS, any LIR and any prescribed 
matters including the Infrastructure Planning (Decisions) 
Regulations 2010(the Decisions regulations).  
3.3 
The Overarching NPS for Energy (EN-1) published in July 2011 
sets out the Government's policy for delivery of major energy 
infrastructure.4  It was accompanied by five technology specific 
NPS for the energy sector. The NPS for Fossil Fuel Electricity 
Generating Infrastructure (EN-2), Gas Supply Infrastructure and 
Gas and Oil Pipelines (EN-4) and Electricity Networks 
Infrastructure (EN-5) are relevant to this application.5  
3.4 
EN-1 states that the UK 'needs all the types of energy 
infrastructure covered by the NPS in order to achieve energy 
security at the same time as dramatically reducing greenhouse 
gas emissions.'  That includes fossil fuel plants such as the 
proposed development. It also states that applications for 
development consent should be assessed 'on the basis that the 
Government has demonstrated that there is a need for those 
types of infrastructure.' 
4 Overarching National Policy Statement for Energy (EN-1). Department for Energy and Climate 
Change July 2011. 
https://www.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/37046/1938-
overarching-nps-for-energy-en1.pdf  
5 National Policy Statement for Fossil Fuel Electricity Generating Infrastructure (EN-2). ). Department 
for Energy and Climate Change July 2011. 
https://www.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/37047/1939-nps-for-
fossil-fuel-en2.pdf 
National Policy Statement for Gas Supply and Gas and Oil Pipelines (EN-4). Department for Energy 
and Climate Change July 2011. 
https://www.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/47857/1941-nps-
gas-supply-oil-en4.pdf 
National Policy Statement for Electricity Networks Infrastructure. Department for Energy and Climate 
Change July 2011. 
https://www.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/47858/1942-
national-policy-statement-electricity-networks.pdf 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
16 
                                       
 
 
3.5 
Fossil fuel generation is recognised as playing a vital role in 
providing reliable energy supplies and providing flexibility in 
response to changes in supply and demand and diversity in the 
energy mix. The NPS recognises that fossil fuel plants produce 
CO2 and sets a requirement that new plant over 300 MW have 
to be constructed Carbon Capture Ready (CCR) so that Carbon 
Capture and Storage (CCS) can be retrofitted to the plant at a 
later date if required. As the maximum capacity of the proposed 
plant is 299 MW there is no requirement to provide for carbon 
capture.  
3.6 
EN-2 recognises that fossil fuel generating stations are large 
and would have an impact on the surrounding landscape and 
visual amenity. It states that it is not possible to eliminate the 
visual impacts associated with a fossil fuel generating station. 
The purpose of mitigation measures is therefore to reduce the 
visual intrusion of the buildings in the landscape and minimise 
impact on visual amenity as far as reasonably practical. If the 
location is deemed appropriate and the plant has been designed 
sensitively to minimise harm to landscape and visual amenity 
then 'the visibility of a fossil fuel generating station should be 
given limited weight.' 
3.7 
EN-1 and EN-2 both recognise the contribution that combined 
heat and power (CHP) can make to reducing emissions and full 
exploration of the potential for CHP is a requirement of 
applications for thermal generating stations.  
3.8 
The NPS identify the contribution that good design can make to 
producing sustainable infrastructure and to mitigating adverse 
impacts of projects. 
3.9 
EN-1 sets out general principles and generic impacts to be 
taken into account in considering applications for energy NSIPs. 
Generic impacts of particular relevance to this application 
include impacts on air quality and emissions, biodiversity, 
historic environment, landscape and visual, traffic and 
transport. Environmental, social and economic benefits and 
adverse impacts at national, regional and local levels should be 
considered. Account should be taken of: 
(a) The potential benefits of the proposed development to 
meeting the need for energy infrastructure, job creation and 
any long term or wider benefits; and 
(b) Potential adverse impacts, including any long-term and 
cumulative adverse impacts, as well as measures to avoid, 
reduce or compensate for any adverse impacts. 
3.10 
EN-1 recognises that the construction, operation and 
decommissioning of energy infrastructure has the potential to 
result in adverse impacts on the historic environment. This 
includes damage to the setting and significance of historic 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
17 
 
assets which has been a particular concern of IPs in this case. 
EN-1 provides guidance on the assessment of damage to 
different categories of asset. This is considered further in 
section 4 of this Report. 
3.11 
Additional specific considerations for fossil fuel generation, gas 
pipelines and electricity networks infrastructures are set out in 
EN-2, EN-4 and EN-5. Where relevant these are also considered 
in section 4 of this report. 
3.12 
EN-1 acknowledges that other matters such as local 
development plans may also need to be taken into account but 
states that in the case of any conflict between these other 
documents and the NPS, the NPS prevails for the purpose of 
decision taking. EN-1 states that the decision maker should 
start with a presumption in favour of granting consent to 
applications for energy NSIPs.  
The Infrastructure Planning (Decisions) Regulations 2010 
3.13 
The Decisions Regulations contain provisions in respect of the 
treatment of listed buildings, conservation areas and scheduled 
monuments and of biological diversity. 
3.14 
Regulation 3 of the Decisions Regulations provides that: 
"(1) When deciding an application which affects a listed building 
or its setting, the decision-maker must have regard to the 
desirability of preserving the listed building or its setting or any 
features of special architectural or historic interest that it 
possesses. 
(2) When deciding an application relating to a conservation 
area, the decision-maker must have regard to the desirability of 
preserving or enhancing the character or appearance of that 
area. 
(3) when deciding an application for development consent which 
affects or is likely to affect a scheduled monument or its setting, 
the decision-maker must have regard to the desirability of 
preserving the scheduled monument or its setting." 
3.15 
In respect of biological diversity regard must be had under 
Regulation 7 to the United Nations Environmental Programme 
Convention on Biological Diversity of 1992. 
European Requirements and Related UK Regulations 
Habitats Directive (Council Directive 92/43/EEC) 
3.16 
The Habitats Directive (together with the Council Directive 
79/409/EEC on the conservation of wild birds (Wild Birds 
Directive)) forms the cornerstone of Europe's nature 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
18 
 
conservation policy. It is built around two pillars: the Natura 
2000 network of protected sites and the strict system of species 
protection. The directive protects over 1000 animals and plant 
species and over 200 habitat types (for example: special types 
of forests; meadows; wetlands; etc.), which are of European 
importance. 
Conservation and Species Regulations 2010 (as amended) 
the Habitats Regulations 
Conservation of Habitats and Species (Amendment) 
Regulations 2012 
3.17 
The Conservation of Habitats and Species Regulations 2010 are 
the principal means by which the Habitats Directive is 
transposed in England and Wales.  
3.18 
The Conservation of Habitats and Species (Amendment) 
Regulations 2012 came into force on 16 August 2012. These 
Regulations amend the Habitats Regulations. They place new 
duties on public bodies to take measures to preserve, maintain 
and re-establish habitat for wild birds. They also make a 
number of further amendments to the Habitats Regulations to 
ensure certain provisions of Directive 92/43/EEC (the Habitats 
Directive) and Directive 2009/147/EC (the Wild Birds Directive) 
are transposed clearly. 
3.19 
The proposed development could have an impact on two 
European sites: 
(a) Redgrave and South Lopham Fens Ramsar Site; and 
(b) Waveney and Little Ouse Valley Fens Special Area of 
Conservation (SAC) 
3.20 
This is considered further in section 5 of this Report. 
Natural Environment and Rural Communities Act 2006 
3.21 
The Natural Environment and Rural Communities Act (NERC) 
made provision for bodies concerned with the natural 
environment and rural communities, in connection with wildlife 
sites, SSSIs, National Parks and the Broads. It includes a duty 
that every public body must, in exercising its functions, have 
regard so far as is consistent with the proper exercising of those 
functions, to the purpose of biodiversity. In complying with this 
duty, Ministers of the Crown, government departments and the 
Welsh Government must have regard to the United Nations 
Environment Programme Convention on Biological Diversity of 
1992. 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
19 
 
Other Legal and Policy Provisions 
National policy and legislation 
3.22 
The National Planning Policy Framework (NPPF) published in 
2012 sets out the Government’s planning policies for England 
and how these are expected to be applied.6 The Framework 
does not contain specific policies for NSIPs for which particular 
considerations apply. These are determined in accordance with 
the decision-making framework set out in PA 2008 and relevant 
NPS for major infrastructure, as well as any other matters that 
are considered both important and relevant (which may include 
the NPPF). The NPPF contains guidance on conserving and 
enhancing the historic environment and sets out particular 
issues to take into account in determining planning applications. 
That guidance is in similar terms to but is not identical with the 
guidance on the historic environment in EN-1. 
3.23 
As part of the government’s Electricity Market Reform package, 
a Capacity Market has been created. This is intended to ensure 
security of electricity supply by providing a payment for reliable 
sources of capacity, alongside their electricity revenues, to 
ensure they deliver energy when needed. This is intended to 
encourage investment to replace older power stations and 
provide backup for more intermittent and inflexible low carbon 
generation sources. Peaking plant of the type proposed in this 
application would be able to bid for capacity payments in this 
market.7  
Local Impact Report 
3.24 
A joint LIR has been submitted by MSDC and SCC (REP-051). 
This identified The Mid Suffolk District Local Plan and SCC's 
Minerals and Waste Development Framework as constituting the 
statutory development plan for the area. It noted that given the 
age of some of these policies the NPPF could also be a relevant 
consideration. A number of other non-statutory local policies 
were also identified. These include the Eye Airfield Development 
Framework (2013), the Eye Airfield Planning Position Statement 
(2013) and Conservation Area Appraisals for Eye, Mellis and 
Thrandeston. SCC is the highway authority for Suffolk and has 
adopted its Local Transport Plan 2011-2031 and Rights of Way 
Improvement Plan 2006-2016. 
3.25 
The principal matters raised in the LIR and considered further in 
section 4 of this report are: 
6 National Planning Policy Framework DCLG, March 2012. 
https://www.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/6077/2116950.pdf 
7 Implementing Electricity Market Reform (EMR), DECC June 2014 
https://www.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/324176/Implementin
g_Electricity_Market_Reform.pdf 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
20 
                                       
 
 
(a) Air quality; 
(b) Design 
(c) 
Ecological impacts; 
(d) Flood risk; 
(e) Effect on the historic environment, including designated and 
undesignated assets; 
(f) 
Landscape and visual impact; 
(g) Land use; 
(h) Noise and vibration; 
(i) 
Socio-economic impacts; 
(j) 
Transport and traffic; 
(k) Waste management 
(l) 
Water quality and resources 
The Secretary of State’s powers to make a DCO  
3.26 
As outlined at paragraph 2.27 a number of changes have been 
made to the application. I have considered whether these 
changes to the application meant that the application had 
changed to the point where it was a different application and 
whether the Secretary of State would have power therefore 
under s.114 of PA2008 to make a DCO having regard to the 
development consent applied for.  
3.27 
The Secretary of State will be aware of the letter dated 28 
November 2011 from Bob Neill MP, then Parliamentary Under-
Secretary of State for Planning.8 The view expressed by the 
Government during the passage of the Localism Act that 
s.114(1) places the responsibility for making a DCO on the 
decision maker, and does not limit the terms in which it can be 
made.  
3.28 
In exercising this power the Secretary of State may wish to take 
into account my views on the proposed changes to the 
application: 
(a) The changes proposed all fall within the physical limits of 
the original Rochdale envelope and have the effect of 
reducing the size of the proposed envelope. The refined 
application - AIS variant does not represent a materially 
different application from that originally proposed. The 
original proposal which was the subject of consultation 
remains the worst case option. The changes reduce rather 
than extend the scope of compulsory acquisition. 
(b) I do not consider that accepting these changes would result 
in any person being deprived of the opportunity to be 
consulted on the impact of the development. I issued a 
procedural decision (DEC-012) that the proposed changes to 
8 http://infrastructure.planningportal.gov.uk/wp-content/uploads/2011/11/111130_Ltr-from-Bob-
Neill-MP-re-s114.pdf 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
21 
                                       
 
 
the scheme were not ‘material’ and should be accepted as 
part of the proposed development.  
3.29 
Given this, and having regard to the fact that information on the 
changes was made available to interested parties, I recommend 
that the Secretary of State should accept the changes for 
consideration in the examination as part of the proposed 
development. 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
22 
 
4 
FINDINGS AND CONCLUSIONS IN RELATION TO POLICY 
AND FACTUAL ISSUES 
MAIN ISSUES IN THE EXAMINATION 
4.1 
My initial assessment of the principal issues based on my 
consideration of the application documents and relevant 
representations received was circulated prior to the Preliminary 
Meeting (DEC-004). The issues are in alphabetic order and 
should not be taken to imply an order of importance.  
Compulsory Acquisition, including issues related to:  
 
The requirement for the powers sought  
 
The need to establish a compelling case in the public interest  
 
Financial arrangements  
Design, Layout and Visibility, including issues related to:  
 
The proposed design for the power station and associated 
development 
 
Use of agricultural land 
 
Landscape and visual impact  
 
Landscaping and screening 
The DCO, including issues related to:  
 
The description of the development and definitions used  
 
Powers acquired through the DCO 
 
Requirements 
 
Protective provisions  
Economic and Social impacts, including issues related to:  
 
The impact on the local economy including tourism 
 
The impact on local services and facilities  
 
The impact on housing and employment  
 
Access to leisure facilities  
 
Other developments on the business park 
Environmental Impact Assessment, including issues related to:  
 
The adequacy of the assessment of its potential impacts  
 
Cumulative effects 
 
Mitigation measures 
Other Environmental Issues, including issues related to:  
 
Airborne emissions and air quality  
 
Flooding  
 
Noise, lighting,  dust and vibration  
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
23 
 
Habitats, Ecology and Nature Conservation, including issues 
related to:  
 
The impact on European and other protected sites and 
species  
 
Impacts on habitats and on biodiversity 
The Historic and Archaeological Environment, including 
issues related to:  
 
Impact on heritage assets and historic landscapes 
 
Impact on archaeological remains  
Operational, including issues related to:  
 
The operational mechanisms not to exceed 299 MW output  
 
Environmental Permitting 
 
The potential use of Combined Heat and Power  
Transport and Traffic, including issues related to:  
 
Proposed changes to the local and national road network 
 
Construction Traffic movement and routeing  
 
Road safety 
Issues identified in the Local Impact Report and 
submissions from statutory bodies and other interested 
parties 
4.2 
The issues identified in the LIR set out above at paragraph 3.25 
(REP-051) as being of greatest concern to the local authorities 
were: 
 
The effect on biodiversity from the loss of hedgerows and use 
of arable land; 
 
The impact on heritage assets, historic field systems and 
archaeological remains; 
 
The landscape and visual impact; 
 
The traffic and transport implications; and 
 
The quality of design of the development. 
4.3 
These concerns were supported in submissions from IPs. In 
addition to representations from individuals the local parishes of 
Brome and Oakley, Mellis, Palgrave, Thornham Magna, 
Thornham Parva, Thrandeston and Yaxley made joint 
submissions during the course of the Examination as the Eye 
Airfield Parishes Working Group (EAPWG) (REP-031, -032, -077, 
AS-019, -028, -043). Submissions were also received from the 
EA (RR-108), English Heritage (EH) (RR-085, REP-025, -026) 
and Natural England (NE) (RR-075).  
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
24 
 
4.4 
EA noted that under the Environmental Permitting Regulations 
2010 an environmental permit (EP) would be required for the 
generation plant. This would require that: 
(a) All the appropriate preventative measures are taken against 
pollution; 
(b) Best available techniques (BAT)are applied; 
(c) 
No significant pollution is caused; 
(d) Generation of waste is prevented or is managed in 
accordance with Directive 2008/98/EC; 
(e) Energy is used efficiently; 
(f) 
Necessary measures are taken to prevent accidents and 
limit their consequences; and 
(g) Necessary decommissioning activities are taken on 
cessation of activities. 
4.5 
In the absence of an application for an EP, the EA identified a 
number of issues that remained to be addressed. These 
included being satisfied on the use of BAT, that no significant 
pollution would be caused affecting designated European sites 
and that key permitting issues would be properly addressed. 
The EA comments were given without prejudice to any decisions 
that would be taken in determining any later permit application.  
4.6 
EH has a remit to advise on the effect of proposed 
developments on grade I and II* listed buildings, Scheduled 
Ancient Monuments and Conservation Areas of which there were 
a number in the vicinity. EH was of the view that the project 
had the potential to impact on the historic environment both 
directly, through permanent physical changes, and indirectly 
through changes to the setting of heritage assets. EH expressed 
concern about the impact on heritage assets and the way in 
which this had been assessed in the ES. EH considered that the 
application did not fully consider the contribution that setting 
makes to the significance of some of the heritage assets 
concerned or give appropriate weight to that significance.  
4.7 
EH considered that the generation plant would result in a 
degree of harm to the significance of Eye Castle, a Scheduled 
Ancient Monument, Eye parish church, a grade I listed building 
and Eye Conservation Area. The ECC had the potential to result 
in a degree of harm to the Mellis and Thrandeston Conservation 
Areas and to a number of listed buildings nearby. 
4.8 
Undesignated assets are outside EH's remit but in its initial 
representation it noted that the proposed substation would be 
constructed in an area of historic field boundaries of 
considerable significance. These were not formally designated 
but could be considered as part of the wider setting of the 
neighbouring Conservation Areas. It was EH's view that the 
proposed substation could have a negative impact on the 
historic significance of the site and the surrounding area. EH 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
25 
 
considered that it might be possible to mitigate this impact by 
amending the substation's location and design. 
4.9 
NE identified a number of locations that could be affected by the 
development. These were two designated Europe sites, 
Redgrave and Lopham Fen Ramsar site and Waveney and Little 
Ouse Valley Fen SAC and three nationally designated sites, 
Redgrave and Lopham Fen Site of Special Scientific Interest 
(SSSI) and national nature reserve (NNR), Major Farm, 
Braiseworth SSSI and Gypsy Camp Meadows, Thrandeston 
SSSI. 
4.10 
NE was satisfied from the information provided in the 
application that, subject to the inclusion of avoidance and 
mitigation measures in respect of dust management, stack 
height and emissions controls, there would be no significant 
effect on the European and nationally designated sites 
identified. 
4.11 
NE also considered the possible impact on protected species 
including bats and great crested newts (GCN) and on general 
biodiversity. A licence for trapping GCN should be obtained. 
Mitigation measures proposed by the applicant in respect of 
environmental impacts should be a requirement in any approval 
of the project.  
4.12 
NGET and National Grid Gas plc (NGG) submitted separate 
written representations (REP-037, -038). NGET stated that it did 
not object to the application in principle but registered a holding 
objection to any compulsory acquisition of its interests until 
such time as protective provisions were agreed.  
4.13 
In respect of the design of the substation NGET stated that it 
would be responsible for designing and constructing the ECC 
and would take final decisions on the design of the substation 
closer to the construction date in accordance with its statutory 
duty under section 9 of the Electricity Act 1989 (the Electricity 
Act) to bring forward efficient, co-ordinated and economical 
proposals in terms of network design and to have regard to 
amenity under Section 38 and Schedule 9 of the Electricity Act 
1989. These duties are specifically referred to in EN-5.  
4.14 
NGET cited its Policy Statement on substation primary 
insulation, which states:  'Gas Insulated Switchgear (GIS) 
substations shall only be considered where lifetime related 
conditions (such as pollution, permanent space restriction or 
public visual amenity) preclude the use of open terminal 
equipment'. Pursuant to these considerations, NGET did not 
perceive a driver for a GIS substation in this case and, having 
regard to its statutory duties of efficiency and economy, it was 
proposing an AIS substation when carrying out the detailed 
design of the substation. In its Statement of Common Ground 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
26 
 
(SoCG) (REP-072) NGET stated that it would seek to ensure 
that an AIS substation was sensitively designed to minimise the 
footprint and sensitively sited taking into account agricultural 
use, heritage assets, landscape and visual matters and ecology. 
NGET noted in its comments on submissions from MSDC and 
SCC (REP-079) that 'whilst a prescribed full indoor GIS design 
may be seen as mitigating against visual amenity impacts it 
would prevent NGET from performing its duty to balance this 
consideration against its other obligations to be economic and 
efficient.' 
4.15 
NGET noted that works on a replacement tower, temporary 
diversion of existing 400kV OHL and down leads to connect the 
ECC to the OHL were not sought to be consented in the DCO, 
nor were rights of compulsory acquisition being sought for 
them.  
4.16 
NGET would require land rights to carry out the works providing 
temporary access for construction and permanent access for 
maintenance. These rights could either be acquired through 
permitted development rights or through separate consenting 
processes. 
4.17 
NGET set out its objection to the proposal in the DCO to restrict 
commissioning of the substation until after commencement of 
the power generation plant. NGET argued that it required 
flexibility in its commissioning programme so as to be able to 
meet its contractual obligation that the substation will have 
been commissioned by the date in the Connection Agreement 
between the parties. 
4.18 
NGG did not object to the application in principle but identified 
NGG apparatus and interests which could be affected by the 
development. NGG registered a holding objection to the 
compulsory acquisition of its interests until such time as the 
protective provisions were agreed and included in Schedule 9 of 
the draft DCO or in a confidential commercial side agreement 
between the parties. 
4.19 
Objections to the proposed development were also received 
from affected persons whose land or rights would be subject to 
compulsory acquisition. These are considered further in section 
7. 
Statements of Common Ground 
4.20 
SoCG with the applicant were received from (NGET) (REP-046, -
072), (NGG) (REP-047, -071), EA (REP-048), NE (REP-049) 
and, jointly from MSDC and SCC. The SoCG with MSDC and SCC 
went through several iterations as areas of disagreement were 
resolved during the course of the Examination (REP-050, -073, 
-089, -094, -097, -106). These SoCGs set out matters agreed 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
27 
 
between the parties and matters which had not been agreed. 
Points of agreement or disagreement identified in SoCGs are 
referred to under the relevant sections below. 
THE PRINCIPLE OF THE DEVELOPMENT 
Need for the development 
4.21 
The proposed development is for an SCGT power station with 
integral gas supply and electricity export connections and 
associated development in the form of a substation to connect 
to the national electricity grid and road access from the A140. It 
is one of several similar projects being developed by the 
applicant's parent company WPL to provide peaking capacity 
which can bid into the new capacity market developed by 
Government in recent years. 
4.22 
As noted at paragraph 3.1the proposed development qualifies 
as an NSIP and consideration of the proposal is subject to the 
guidance in EN-1 and associated NPS. Paragraph 3.4 of EN-1 
states that applications for development consent for energy 
NSIPs should be assessed on the basis that the Government has 
demonstrated that there is a need for those types of 
infrastructure. The development of the capacity market, which 
has taken place since the designation of the NPS, has created a 
role for a particular type of flexible generation which the 
proposed development is designed to fulfil. However capacity 
market contracts will be subject to competitive tender with no 
guarantee that contracts will be awarded to any particular 
bidder. It is possible that the plant would not be successful in 
this tender and would sell its power in the wholesale electricity 
market alongside other participants without the benefit of 
capacity payments. In terms of meeting the need for new 
capacity this application for flexible generation has the same 
status in planning terms as other fossil fuelled generation plant. 
Consideration of alternatives 
4.23 
The ES contains a section on Site Selection, Alternatives and 
Design Evolution. The key factors in site selection were the 
availability of a site of adequate size and proximity to the 
national gas and electricity networks. Consideration was given 
to alternative generation technologies and plant layout, to 
alternative routings for the gas connection and associated 
infrastructure and to alternative technologies and locations for 
the ECC. 
Site selection 
4.24 
The ES states that the proposed site meets the selection criteria 
identified by the applicant. But it does not give any detail on 
alternative locations that had been considered. This was 
challenged during the course of the application and discussed at 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
28 
 
the second ISH. The applicant argued that EN-1 did not impose 
a policy imperative to consider alternatives but in response to 
my request for further information on alternative locations 
agreed to provide additional material. This was submitted as an 
annex to its summary of the oral evidence at the second ISH 
(HR-049). This set out how an initial database of 24,000 sites 
had been progressively reduced through the use of more 
detailed screening criteria, including a high level environmental 
impact assessment, to a short list of 22 in Southern England 
and Wales. Of these, four sites had been selected for 
development. The view that inadequate attention had been 
given to alternative sites was raised in the context of concern 
about the possible impact of the development on heritage and 
historic assets and I consider this further at paragraphs 4.162 
and 4.184 below. 
4.25 
A number of representations objected to the selection of the 
Eye Airfield site (RR-012, -017, -029, -033, -034, -037, -055, -
058, -061, -066, -069, -072, -081). MSDC and SCC considered 
that Eye Airfield could be an appropriate location for a gas-fired 
power station and in particular recognised the benefits of 
investment in the locality (REP-029).  
Alternative generation technologies and plant layouts 
4.26 
The ES states that three options were considered for the power 
generation plant. These were reciprocating gas engine (RGE) 
plant, combined cycle gas turbine (CCGT) plant and SCGT plant. 
RGE plant offers more flexibility in terms of fuel use and some 
advantage in terms of energy efficiency when compared with 
SCGT but has disadvantages in terms of noise in operation, 
emissions control and land requirements. CCGT plant is more 
efficient with the addition of a steam cycle to use heat from 
exhaust gases but has disadvantages in terms of the speed with 
which it can be brought into operation and the need for a stack 
of up to 90 m to achieve adequate dispersion of pollutants. The 
cost per MW of CCGT plant would be significantly greater than 
for SCGT plant. 
4.27 
The SCGT plant was favoured because it combined the flexibility 
to start up and shut down rapidly with lower capital cost and 
less environmental impact than the other options. This met the 
objective of developing plant which could operate over short 
periods providing power at peak times or other periods of 
shortage. 
4.28 
EN-2 requires that consideration be given to the inclusion of 
CHP as part of any thermal generating station making use of 
surplus heat from the generation process. A report assessing 
the CHP potential at the generation site was included as part of 
the ES (APP-027). This concluded that there were no suitable 
heat users of applicable scale to use the unpredictable heat 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
29 
 
available from the operation of a peaking plant and that no 
potential future heat requirements in the area had been 
identified that would match with the operation of the plant. The 
intermittent and peaking modes of operation of SCGT were 
considered to be incompatible with the likely continuous 
demands of heat users. 
4.29 
In its SoCG, the EA agreed that the CHP opportunities had been 
reviewed but that the EA had not validated the results (REP-
048). This would be considered further as part of any 
application for an environmental permit. The EA acknowledged 
that the Energy Efficiency Directive 2012 which came into force 
on 5 June 2014 exempted peak load and back-up electricity 
generating installations which are planned to operate under 
1,500 operating hours per year from the requirement to carry 
out a full cost benefit analysis.9 
4.30 
The plant layout for the SCGT plant would depend on the 
number and size of individual generating units. The intended 
capacity of 299 MW could be achieved either with one or two 
industrial type gas turbines (GT) or three, four or five aero 
derivative GTs. Each turbine might have its own exhaust stack 
or it might be possible for two turbines to share a stack. The 
maximum stack width would be 10 m and maximum height 
would be 30 m. The option of five turbines with individual stacks 
was taken as the worst case situation for evaluation purposes.  
4.31 
During the course of the examination the applicant agreed that 
it would use the dry NOx process to control emissions. As a 
consequence the requirement to store pure water on site for 
NOx control would be significantly reduced. It also identified a 
reduced need for storage of raw water on site for operational 
and emergency purposes. The size of the water storage tanks 
was amended accordingly in revision 4 of the draft DCO (APP-
076) and subsequent revisions.  
Alternative routing for the gas connection and associated 
infrastructure 
4.32 
Five options were considered for routing the connection from 
the NTS to the generation plant. A number of these were 
rejected because they would breach safety guidelines related to 
the installation of gas pipelines near wind turbines or would 
adversely affect existing or potential developments on the 
Airfield. The shortest available route was considered to be 
technically unachievable because of its proximity to NGG's gas 
compressor station. The preferred option is a longer route which 
skirts the southern and western perimeters of the Airfield before 
running back east across the Airfield to the site of the 
9 Directive 2012/27/EU on Energy Efficiency http://eur-
lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=OJ:L:2012:315:0001:0056:en:PDF 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
30 
                                       
 
 
generation plant. This route is approximately 1.7 km long and 
includes two minor road crossings.  
Alternative technologies and locations for the ECC 
4.33 
As described in paragraph 2.22, the applicant's preferred option 
for the electricity substation is for the use of AIS technology but 
details have also been provided for the GIS variant. NGET, 
which would be responsible for the final design and construction 
of the substation, expressed its preference for AIS technology 
and drew attention to its statutory duties of efficiency and 
economy under the Electricity Act.  
4.34 
Throughout the Examination MSDC and SCC stated their 
opposition to the AIS variant which they did not consider was 
consistent with local planning policies. With the GIS variant, 
conflict with local policies, particularly those relating to cultural 
heritage and the historic landscape, would be reduced although 
the local authorities still considered that introduction of such a 
structure within the open countryside would weigh against 
granting development consent (REP-029, -106). 
4.35 
There was almost unanimous opposition to the location of the 
substation in open agricultural land from locally based IPs. This 
can be seen both in individual representations and in the 
collective views submitted by the EAPWG. The EAPWG 
maintained throughout the Examination that whichever option is 
pursued the ECC would cause substantial harm by reason of its 
scale and elevation within the most sensitive part of the historic 
ancient rural landscape (AS-043). 
4.36 
The ES set out two alternative locations for the ECC both in 
farmland to the west of the generation site and adjacent to the 
400 kV OHL. Both locations had the potential to give rise to 
adverse effects on visual amenity and landscape character. It 
was considered that the southern location had greater potential 
for adverse visual impacts but the northern location, which 
would require diversion of a PRoW and affect watercourses and 
local drainage, could increase technical difficulty and cost. The 
applicant considered that in view of the availability of mitigation 
measures for landscape and visual impacts the southern 
location should be preferred. Both locations were the subject of 
opposition in representations. 
Design evolution 
4.37 
A Design and Access statement (DAS) was provided as part of 
the application (APP-052). This set out the context for the 
development in terms of its location, the local landscape, 
existing buildings and visual impact. General design principles 
were set out and an indicative design response for the main 
elements in the development was provided. The indicative 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
31 
 
design for the power station and visual representations were for 
the five unit option with five individual exhaust stacks of up to 
30 m.  
4.38 
MSDC and SCC raised concern about the adequacy of the DAS. 
Further assurances were sought as to how the design principles 
would be delivered in order for the development to comply with 
the NPS’ demands for high quality design (HR-035). It was 
suggested that there should be a design review.  
4.39 
The applicant held further discussions about design principles 
with the local authorities and the EAPWG and Eye Town Council. 
A revised design principles statement (DPS), to be read 
alongside the original DAS was agreed with the local authorities. 
It was submitted as annex 8 to the SoCG with MSDC and SCC of 
19 December 2014 (REP-097). The revised principles include a 
commitment to further public engagement in the finalisation of 
detailed design and landscaping proposals and to a Design 
Review by an independent body before any submission of plans 
for approval by the relevant planning authority. 
Conclusion on the principle of the development 
4.40 
I am satisfied that the proposed SCGT power station with 
integral gas supply and electricity export connections and 
associated development in the form of a substation to connect 
to the national electricity grid and road access from the A140 
would contribute to meeting the need for new generation 
capacity identified in EN-1. Subject to my further consideration 
of landscape and visual impact and the impact on historic and 
heritage assets below, I am also satisfied that adequate 
consideration has been given to design and to alternatives to 
the development as required by EN-1.  
EMISSIONS 
Air quality 
4.41 
The proposed development has the potential to affect air quality 
both through dust and particulates during the construction and 
decommissioning phases and through stack emissions during 
the operation of the generation plant 
4.42 
The ES sets out background concentrations of NOx and 
particulates in the area of the development, as measured by 
local authorities and DEFRA. These show concentrations that are 
well within the air quality objectives for the protection of human 
health and ecosystems. Background levels of nitrogen 
deposition at the nearby European sites and other nearby 
locations show existing deposition to be above the minimum 
critical load levels for these locations. This is principally 
attributable to agricultural rather than industrial sources. For 
acidification effects the deposition of sulphur is relatively low 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
32 
 
but the combined nitrogen/sulphur deposition exceeds the lower 
limit for critical load for the majority of the habitats affected. 
4.43 
During the construction period it is expected that, in the 
absence of mitigation, there would be a high risk of dust effects 
from earthworks on both the generation plant and the gas 
connection. These risks are associated with impacts on the 
adjacent industrial properties. The risk of impact on residential 
properties, which are further away, is considered to be low. 
There is a medium risk of impact on ecological receptors, for 
example the deposition of dust on foliage, from earthworks for 
all elements of the development. This would be dependent on 
day to day activity and meteorological conditions. Other impacts 
from construction activities, for example from construction 
equipment and traffic, are considered to be negligible. 
4.44 
Dispersion modelling was used to assess the emissions of 
nitrogen dioxide (NO2) and carbon monoxide (CO) from the 
generation plant and determine stack height. The objective was 
that the impact of these emissions should be negligible where 
there was a risk that the assessment standard would be 
exceeded and total ambient concentrations with the generation 
plant in operation should be well below the standard where 
there could be a medium or large impact on receptors. 
4.45 
A minimum stack height of 25 m was identified in the ES as 
resulting in impacts of less than 1% of the annual mean 
objective but just exceeding 10% of the hourly mean standard. 
For both process contribution and the total predicted 
environmental contribution the predicted levels of emissions 
were well within the UK's air quality objectives for the 
protection of human health. The 8 hour hourly mean 
concentration over the five years tested would be around 1.4% 
of the objective. For NO2 the maximum process contribution 
would be 0.85% of the annual mean objective and 10.25% of 
the hourly mean objective. As such no significant health effects 
were anticipated to result from the operation of the generation 
plant. Since there was negligible risk of exceeding any ambient 
air standards the impact of the operation of the generation 
plant was considered to be 'not significant' in EIA terms. 
Sensitivity testing with a 30 m stack height (the maximum 
height considered) showed a slight reduction in the impact of 
emissions to air. 
4.46 
The expected contribution of emissions from the generation 
plant on European sites and other designated sites was well 
below the critical levels for NOx and acid deposition. The impact 
of the generation plant was considered to be of negligible 
significance and not to represent a significant risk of exceeding 
a critical load. The possible impact on European sites is 
considered further in section 5. 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
33 
 
Water quality 
4.47 
During construction, operation and decommissioning there 
would be some potential for the proposed development to 
impact on local water quality and resources. This could result 
from the use and disposal of water at the generation plant or 
from the impact of the other elements in the development on 
local bodies of water. Any discharge of water from the site 
would be regulated by the EA through the environmental 
permit. 
4.48 
Eighteen water abstraction operations for agricultural or 
industrial use and 38 discharge consents have been identified in 
the vicinity of the site. The site falls within a Groundwater 
Source Protection Zone (SPZ). The River Dove flows 
approximately 2 km east of the site for the generation plant. 
Both the River Dove and the SPZ are identified as being of high 
importance. Seven bodies of surface water, principally field 
drains and small ponds, have been identified in the vicinity. Two 
of these are classified as being of medium significance, the 
others are of low significance. 
4.49 
During construction water may be used for mixing of concrete. 
This would be done off-site and a local water supply would not 
be needed. Any disposal of water from the site is likely to be by 
licensed contractor with no discharges to local water bodies. 
Provision for disposal of water would be included in the 
Construction Environmental Management Plan (CEMP). Kerbed 
and bunded areas would be used to prevent the accidental 
spillage of fuel, lubricants and hydraulic fluids affecting surface 
or groundwater. Construction of the access road could affect 
one of the small ponds close to the A140. Overall the 
construction activities are expected to result in some slight or 
moderate changes which would not result in any significant 
effects on water resources. Similar considerations apply to the 
decommissioning phase. 
4.50 
The electrical and gas connections do not require operational 
water supplies and the substation would require only a small 
supply for sanitation purposes. As noted at paragraph 2.27 it 
was agreed during the Examination that dry NOx control would 
be used and as a result the need for the supply and storage of 
water was significantly reduced. A supply of pure water would 
still be required for occasionally washing the blades of the air 
compressor. 
4.51 
Water used on the site would be discharged into an attenuation 
pond and would pass through oil interceptors before flowing into 
the on-site sewerage system. This system would connect to on-
site septic tanks which would be managed by suitable 
contractors. Any water generated from the washing of the 
compressor blades would be stored in an attenuation pond and 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
34 
 
tankered off-site. There are therefore expected to be negligible 
impacts on water quality and water resources during the 
operational phase. Surface water runoff would be managed 
through infiltration or through use of existing drainage systems. 
All surface and foul water drainage systems would be subject to 
approval by the relevant planning authority, in consultation with 
the EA, as a requirement in the DCO.  
Flood risk 
4.52 
The Project Site is located in Flood Zone 1 and is not considered 
by the applicant to be at significant risk from any source of 
flooding, namely fluvial, tidal, groundwater, overland flow and 
artificial sources. A Flood Risk Assessment (FRA) was carried 
out (APP-097). 
4.53 
The greatest risk of flooding to adjacent land is associated with 
surface water runoff, with reported flood incidents within the 
Eye Airfield Industrial Site to the north of the site of the 
generation plant. This is understood to be as a result of a 
combination of blocked surface water drains within the Airfield, 
blockages within the culverted watercourse and also a lack of 
capacity in the culverted watercourse. Any increase in surface 
water runoff from the site, including that associated with 
climate change effects, could exacerbate existing surface water 
flood risk. 
4.54 
Preference would be given to the use of infiltration systems for 
all areas of the development. If infiltration is unsuitable to 
manage all surface water runoff from the site of the generation 
plant, the proposed surface water drainage strategy is to drain 
surface water runoff to the existing drainage connection located 
to the north of the site adjacent to Eye Power Station. Runoff 
would be attenuated to the existing greenfield runoff rate, up to 
the 1 in 100 year event. A maximum rate has been agreed with 
the EA. Storage would be provided in the form of a retention 
pond located within the generation plant site boundary. 
4.55 
It is proposed that surface water runoff from the ECC and AGI 
would be discharged via infiltration into the ground where 
feasible. In the case of low infiltration rates, connection would 
be sought into existing surface water ditches/drains following 
consultation with the internal drainage board and/or other 
relevant parties.  
4.56 
The conclusion of the FRA was that the proposed surface water 
drainage system would meet the following principles:  
(a) No runoff from the development from rainfall depths up to 5 
mm;  
(b) No increase in the volume or rate of surface water runoff 
from the site in the 1 in 1 and 1 in 100 year rainfall events;  
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
35 
 
(c) 
No increase in flooding to people and property elsewhere as 
a result of the development;  
(d) No surface water flooding within the proposed development 
in all rainfall events up to and including a 1 in 30 year 
return period storm; 
(e) Overland flows within the site from rainfall events exceeding 
a 1 in 30 year return period storm are to be managed to 
minimise risk to people and property, up to the 1 in 100 
year return period storm; 
(f) 
The surface water management proposals are to be 
designed to allow for a 10% increase in rainfall intensity in 
the 1 in 100 year rainfall event over the lifetime of the 
development; 
(g) Surface water runoff would be treated through the use of 
SUDS and oil separator. 
Noise 
4.57 
Noise from the development has been assessed using standard 
techniques for both the construction and operational phases. 
The CEMP would contain provisions on hours of work and work 
methods aimed at containing noise during the construction 
period (APP-026). The generation plant would be designed from 
the outset to minimise its noise impact. This would include the 
use of acoustic enclosures and high performance silencers. 
Noise limits would be agreed with the local authority. 
4.58 
Likely noise from construction and construction traffic was 
assessed for each element of the development at a number of 
nearby noise sensitive receptors (NSR). For all of the NSRs the 
expected level of noise was well below the daytime level of 65 
dB(A) significance threshold set out in BS 5228:2009 and the 
45 dB(A) level set for night-time. The levels of impact of noise 
during construction were not considered to be significant. 
4.59 
A number of different measures were used to assess operational 
noise depending of the type of NSR. Allowance was made for 
the intermittent operation of the plant which could aggravate 
the impact. In all cases the impact of noise was considered to 
be, at worst, minor and overall not to be significant. Embedded 
design was considered to be adequate to control any vibration 
and the effect would be imperceptible at the nearest NSR. 
Mitigation measures to control emissions 
4.60 
For the construction phase the CEMP would contain provisions 
for : 
(a) The development of a site specific dust management for all 
aspects of the project; 
(b) Containment of any accidental spillages which could affect 
water quality.  
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
36 
 
(c) 
Work methods to contain noise. 
4.61 
Details of these provisions were included in the final versions of 
the outline CEMP submitted with the SoCG with MSDC and SCC 
on 19 December 2014 (REP-097, annex 3 and 4) and 13 
January 2015 (REP-106, annex 3). A requirement to agree the 
final CEMP with the relevant planning authorities and the EA is 
included in the draft DCO. 
4.62 
For the operational phase the generation plant would be 
designed to ensure negligible effects on air quality through the 
minimum stack height and the use of emissions control 
measures, including dry NOx burners. The choice of SCGT 
technology and dry NOx burners would minimise the 
requirement for water usage during operations. The plant would 
be designed to ensure that any contaminated water does not 
leach into water course or adjoining land. Bunding would be 
used to contain any spillages of oil or chemicals. Control of 
noise through use of high performance silencers and other 
features would also form part of the design of the generation 
plant. Requirements on surface and foul water drainage, 
construction hours and control of operational noise are included 
in the draft DCO. The plant would also require an EP from the 
EA which would set emissions limits and monitoring 
requirements for air and water quality. 
Views of Interested Parties 
4.63 
In its response to my first round of questions (REP-041) the EA 
indicated that the outline CEMP, although a high level 
document, covered all potential pollution issues during 
construction. 
4.64 
In its relevant representation (RR-108) the EA raised concerns 
that while the FRA took account of how a 1 in 30 year flood 
event could be managed it was also necessary to show how a 1 
in 100 year event would be managed. The applicant responded 
to this (REP-042) indicating that the attenuation pond would be 
sized to accommodate the 1 in 100 year plus climate change 
event and would limit discharge from these features to the 
equivalent 1 in 100 year greenfield runoff rate in accordance 
with EA requirements. 
4.65 
In the SoCG (REP-048) with the EA it was agreed that the 
Secretary of State must be satisfied that potential releases from 
the development could be adequately regulated under the 
control of pollution control framework and that cumulative 
impacts are not unacceptable in relation to statutory 
environmental limits. Having considered the environmental 
information in the ES, the EA is satisfied and agrees that the 
proposed SCGT type of plant should be capable of being 
adequately regulated under the pollution control framework and 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
37 
 
that the cumulative impacts should fall within statutory limits. 
At that time the EA was not aware of anything that would 
preclude the grant of an EP for a single cycle gas turbine. This 
statement was without prejudice to the EA’s determination of 
the application for the EP. Only once an application had been 
received and assessed could the EA determine whether or not a 
permit could be granted. 
4.66 
In the SoCG the applicant agreed to a number of amendments 
to the CEMP and the draft DCO suggested by the EA. 
4.67 
NE stated that it was satisfied that with the proposed 
avoidance, mitigation and enhancement measures potential 
environmental impacts upon designated sites either would not 
occur or would be sufficiently mitigated (RR-075). 
4.68 
Other IPs raised general concerns about air and water pollution 
(RR-015, -018, -026, -027, -029, -038, -066, -068, -096, -
100). Concerns were also raised about noise both from the 
generation plant and the ECC affecting the lives of nearby 
residents (RR-001, -015, -017, -023, -025, -033, -048, -052, -
055, -086). 
Conclusions on emissions 
4.69 
I have considered the analysis of aerial and water emissions 
and of noise as set out in the ES and the measures proposed to 
mitigate the impact of any emissions. Mitigation measures 
include measures embedded in the design of the main elements 
of the development, adoption of the CEMP, requirements for 
approval of drainage systems and limits on operational noise by 
the relevant planning authority. These measures should ensure 
that the levels of emissions are kept below the thresholds above 
which significant adverse effects could be expected to occur.  
4.70 
Emissions to air and water would be regulated through an EP 
which has not yet been applied for. The EA has stated, without 
prejudice to its decision on any application subsequently 
received, that it is satisfied that the proposed type of plant 
should be capable of being adequately regulated under the 
pollution control framework and that the cumulative impacts 
should fall within statutory limits. At that time the EA was not 
aware of anything that would preclude the grant of an EP for an 
SCGT. 
4.71 
EN-1 states that the planning and pollution control systems are 
separate but complementary. The Examination should work on 
the assumption that the relevant pollution control regime will be 
properly applied and enforced by the relevant regulator. 
Consent should not be refused on the basis of pollution impacts 
unless there is good reason to believe that any relevant 
necessary operational pollution control permits will not 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
38 
 
subsequently be granted. Taking into account the proposed 
embedded design features, the ES does not identify any 
significant adverse effects of air or water quality. On the basis 
of the evidence before me and without prejudice to any future 
consideration by the EA, I do not have any reason to believe 
that an EP for the generation plant would not be granted. 
4.72 
On this basis I conclude that, subject to the mitigation 
measures identified, there should not be any significant adverse 
effects from emissions to air and water or from noise. 
BIODIVERSITY 
Hedgerows and arable land 
4.73 
Each of the elements in the proposed development would be 
sited on existing arable land. In the ES this is considered to be a 
type of habitat that is widespread in the area supporting very 
little in the way of biodiversity. The main habitats that are 
considered to be of value are the mix of species rich and species 
poor hedgerows in the neighbourhood of each of the elements 
of the development. The ES identified the loss of 274 m of 
hedgerow with the AIS substation and 24 m with the GIS 
variant. These figures were subsequently revised to 277 m for 
AIS and 25 m for GIS (HR-036). In the LIR it was suggested 
that there could be further loss of hedgerows, not identified in 
the ES from the creation of the access point to the A140.  
4.74 
Concern was expressed in the LIR about the effect on 
biodiversity from the cutting through or removal of a number of 
hedgerows from the development of the ECC and associated 
access road (REP-051). Arable field margins could also be 
affected by the ECC. Hedgerows provide locally important 
habitat for brown hares, bats, GCN and breeding birds. 
Although the hedgerows affected were classified as species-
poor, unnecessary disturbance should still be avoided as this 
would still have ecological consequences. A scheme of 
mitigation for loss of hedgerows was seen as essential.  
4.75 
The EAPWG argued that the hedgerows that would be affected 
by the development were not species-poor and submitted 
evidence in support based on field inspection (REP-031). 
Species rich hedgerows are a Suffolk Priority Biodiversity Action 
Plan (BAP) priority habitat. The hedgerows were used by bats 
for foraging and commuting and by birds for nesting. At the first 
ISH the applicant agreed that even hedgerows that it had 
classified as species-poor should be given the same status as 
species rich hedgerows as valued ecological receptors (VER) of 
local value. 
4.76 
The Ecological Management Strategy submitted with the 
application set out the plans for new planting associated with 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
39 
 
the development (APP-055). The area around the ECC using AIS 
technology would include the creation of approximately 1.6 ha 
of woodland, 0.5 ha of grassland, 674 m of hedgerow and would 
retain approximately 260 m of existing hedgerow. With the GIS 
variant approximately 0.6 ha of woodland, 0.2 ha of grassland, 
413 m of hedgerow would be created  and approximately 510 m 
of existing hedgerow would be retained. A further 0.04 ha of 
grassland and 166 m of hedgerow would be created around the 
sealing end Compound. Landscaping around the generation 
plant would create 0.7 ha woodland and 0.1 ha scrub and 
around the AGI 0.5 ha woodland and 245 m of hedgerow. 
4.77 
The Landscape Mitigation Strategy (APP-056) and Outline 
Landscaping Plans (APP-015) submitted with the application set 
out proposals for planting round each element of the 
development. This comprised a mix of hedgerow and woodland 
planting. Both the LIR and the EAPWG submissions expressed 
concerns about the proposed planting to replace hedgerows in 
respect of the proposed plant mix and the setting of hedgerows 
around new woodland planting. 
4.78 
In response to comments received from IPs the applicant 
submitted a revised Outline Ecological Management Strategy 
and included additional provisions on ecological mitigation in the 
CEMP. These were agreed with the local authorities (REP-050 
annex 2 & 3). An updated Landscape Mitigation Strategy and 
associated Landscaping plans for both the AIS and GIS options 
were also agreed with the local authorities after discussion with 
IPs including the EAPWG (REP-089 annex 1 & 2).  
4.79 
It is a requirement in the draft DCO that final versions of these 
strategies and plans must be agreed with the relevant planning 
authority after consultation with relevant statutory bodies prior 
to the commencement of works. 
4.80 
NE in a SoCG agreed with the assessment of impacts on ecology 
and nature conservation as set out in the ES (REP-049). It also 
agreed that the mitigation measures set out in the Ecological 
and Landscape Management Strategies and Plans were 
appropriate to address potential effects on VERs. Following the 
provision of additional survey information NE agreed that no 
further measures were needed to protect GCN. No 
transboundary impacts on biodiversity were identified. Further 
consideration about the impact on European Sites is set out in 
section 5. 
Skylarks 
4.81 
The LIR identified concerns about the impact that the removal 
of land from arable use would have on ground nesting birds, 
notably skylarks which are a UK and Suffolk Priority BAP 
species. The local authorities accepted that there was unlikely 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
40 
 
to be a significant effect on skylarks but considered that the 
development should result in no net loss to the species. In their 
view this would be consistent with the advice in EN-1 in respect 
of biodiversity. They sought provision in a S106 agreement for a 
contribution to secure skylark plots in the locality on a level 
commensurate with the loss of habitat for 1 - 3 breeding pairs 
for a period of not less than 10 years. Agreement was reached 
on a sum of £1,000 to be paid to SCC for this purpose (APP-
120). 
Conclusions on biodiversity 
4.82 
Although the proposed development would lead to the loss of 
arable land and of some hedgerows which were classified as 
VER, a significant amount of new planting is proposed to offset 
any adverse effect. The draft DCO contains provisions for the 
agreement of the final Ecological Management Strategy with the 
relevant planning authority in consultation with NE and for 
details of the landscaping to be agreed with the relevant 
planning authority as appropriate mitigation. The S106 
agreement contains provisions for action outside of the 
boundary of the development to mitigate the impact on 
skylarks. I am satisfied that, subject to these provisions, the 
proposed new planting would be adequate to address any 
adverse effects on biodiversity in the neighbourhood of the 
development. The agreed provisions meet the requirements of 
the Decisions Regulations and the NERC to have regard to the 
purpose of biodiversity and to the United Nations Environment 
Programme Convention on Biological Diversity of 1992. 
4.83 
Further consideration is given to the impact of the development 
on hedgerows in the consideration of landscape and visual 
impact and heritage and historic assets below. 
LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL IMPACT 
4.84 
A landscape and visual impact assessment (LVIA) was carried 
out for the proposed development covering a study area with a 
radius of 15 km from the centre of the site. This assessment 
took into account guidance in EN-1, the NPPF and Local Plan 
policies. Methodology was based on the Guidelines for 
Landscape and Visual Impact Assessment (GLVIA), third edition, 
published by the Landscape Institute and Institute of 
Environmental Management and Assessment (2013). Separate 
zones of theoretical visibility (ZTV) were considered for the 
generation plant and the ECC and the development was 
assessed for impact both on landscape character and visual 
amenity. 
4.85 
The ES provides a summary of the main areas that would be 
affected by the proposed development. There are no nationally 
designated landscapes within the study area. There are four 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
41 
 
registered village greens and four areas of registered common 
land within 5 km of the development. MSDC has designated a 
number of locally important Special Landscape Areas (SLA). 
These include the valleys of the rivers Dove and Waveney and 
SLAs close to the site at Burgate, Thornham Park/Mellis 
Common, Mellis, Thornham Magna, Wortham, Hoxne Low Street 
and Eye. Visually Important Open Spaces which are considered 
worthy of protection include Eye, Yaxley, Mellis, Thrandeston, 
Thornham Magna, Hoxne and Stuston. 
4.86 
There are eight Conservation Areas within 5 km of the site. 
These are urban Conservation Areas at Eye and Diss and rural 
Conservation Areas at Scole, Mellis, Palgrave, Thrandeston, 
Hoxne Low Street and Hoxne Cross Street.  
4.87 
The bulk of the study area falls into the category of South 
Norfolk and High Suffolk claylands. This is principally arable 
farmland with slightly undulating topography and relatively 
small individual landholdings. There is a mix of irregular small 
fields with pollarded hedgerow oaks, early co-axial field patterns 
and large modern fields without hedges or trees. 
4.88 
The impact on heritage assets and other historic features 
(including the co-axial field patterns) is considered later in this 
report. 
The Generation Plant 
4.89 
The option of five generating units each with separate 30 m 
high stacks was taken as the worst case scenario for landscape 
and visual impact. During construction potential temporary 
adverse landscape and visual impacts would arise from site 
clearance, construction activities including tower cranes, 
temporary structures, lighting and construction traffic. During 
operation long term landscape and visual impact would occur 
from the new structures resulting in the loss of agricultural land 
and the extension of large scale industrial structures within the 
Airfield. Visual impact would result from the five stacks, the gas 
turbines and other buildings, the security fencing, lighting and 
operational traffic. There would be a permanent loss of 6 ha of 
agricultural land and temporary loss of 2 ha during construction. 
4.90 
The generation plant would be located close to a number of 
existing industrial structures. These include the four wind 
turbines, the national Grid Gas Compressor Station with 
associated 50 m mast and the Eye Power Station with its 40 m 
stack. Woodland and existing structures would largely screen 
the generation plant from the north, north-east and north-west. 
Taller elements of the plant are likely to be visible over a large 
area to the south, south-east and south-west.  
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
42 
 
4.91 
It is stated in the ES that mitigation of landscape and visual 
impacts was embedded into the design of all elements of the 
development. The choice of SCGT technology allowed a 
significant reduction in stack height compared to other 
technologies. Architectural design, use of materials and colours 
would be used to assimilate the plant into the surrounding 
landscape. As noted at paragraph 4.39, the design principles for 
the project were refined during the course of the Examination in 
discussion with IPs. Changes to the details of the application 
submitted during the application included a commitment to a 
maximum width of 6 m for each of the five stacks (see 
paragraph 2.27) as shown in photomontages of the generation 
plant. This would be specified in the DCO. 
4.92 
Mitigation planting around the perimeter of the site for the 
generation plant was included in the application in the 
landscape mitigation strategy (APP-056) and the outline 
landscaping plan (APP-015). The landscaping plan was revised 
during the Examination following discussions with IPs (APP-
084). At maturity this planting would screen the smaller 
structures on the site leaving only the upper parts of the gas 
turbines and the stacks visible. In the applicant's view the width 
of planting should provide a screen even during winter months. 
4.93 
The assessment in the ES was that there would only be minor 
indirect effects on the Dove Valley SLA with limited visibility. No 
significant effect was expected on the rural river valley/ wooded 
valley meadowlands and rolling clay plateau landscapes. 
Woodland, plantations and hedgerows would limit views of the 
generation plant from designated areas in Thornham Parva, 
Thornham Magna, and Mellis Green to a few discrete areas. 
Given the limited locations affected it was not considered that 
there would be significant effects on the local landscape. 
4.94 
The generation plant would be visible in views towards Eye 
Airfield from the south and would be partly screened by existing 
woodland in views from Eye to the south-east. The five 30 m 
stacks would be the main element that would be visible from all 
directions and would change the skyline. Given the relatively 
flat landscape the stacks would be visible over a long distance 
but would be seen in the context of the other tall structures on 
the Airfield. The plant would be visually prominent from the 
footpath that follows the southern boundary of the site. 
4.95 
The main receptors of views of the generation plant identified in 
the ES include: 
(a) Residents at the edges of settlements located south, south-
east, south-west and north-west of the application site at 
Eye, Yaxley, Thornham Parva, the eastern edge of Mellis; 
(b) PRoW users between the generation plant site, Castleton 
Way and Eye; 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
43 
 
(c) 
Road users on the A140 road travelling in both directions; 
(d) Road users and pedestrians using Castleton Way; 
(e) Walkers using public footpaths contiguous with the former 
Eye Airfield runways and the western and southern 
boundaries of the generation plant site; 
(f) 
Walkers along sections of the Mid Suffolk Footpath; and 
(g) Recreational users at the viewing platform at Eye Castle. 
4.96 
The ES concluded that while there would be a short term 
moderate adverse visual impact from some nearby viewpoints 
the proposed planting would offset this during the operational 
period leaving a negligible longer term impact. 
The Above Ground Installation 
4.97 
The gas connection and AGI would be on the south-west edge 
of the Airfield next to Castleton Way. The AGI would have a 
maximum height of 3 m with a 2 m high security fence and 
would be an isolated industrial development in agricultural land. 
There would be temporary loss of 0.32 ha of agricultural land of 
which 0.2 ha would be permanently displaced. There would be 
some loss of mature trees in the immediate vicinity of the 
pipeline but there would be new hedge and woodland planting 
around the AGI compound. Landscaping plans are set out in the 
landscape mitigation strategy (APP-056) and the outline 
landscaping plan (APP-015). 
4.98 
The ES concludes that the AGI would have a moderate adverse 
effect of the landscape character of this part of the Airfield. It 
would indirectly alter views and the open, rural character of the 
area and have a moderate adverse effect. The AGI would be 
visually prominent in the surrounding open, rural landscape and 
would be visible from Yaxley and Thornham Parva and from 
PRoWs with a significant moderate adverse effect from nearby 
viewpoints. The landscape and visual impacts would decrease as 
mitigation planting matured and would be reduced to a level 
that was not significant. 
The Electrical Connection  
4.99 
Potential landscape and visual impacts could occur from all of 
the components of the electrical connection - the cable, the 
access road and A140 junction and the ECC with substation and 
sealing end compound. 
4.100 The 1.5 km cable would be laid across agricultural land and 
buried to a depth of 1.2 m. Where necessary trenchless 
construction would be used to avoid removing sections of 
hedgerows and ponds. The access road would be 6 m wide and 
run from the A140 to the ECC crossing agricultural land and the 
Leys Lane PRoW. It would be used by construction and 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
44 
 
operational traffic and by farm vehicles. Both sides of the road 
would be left open.  
4.101 The ECC would be situated adjacent to and on the eastern side 
of the existing 400 kV overhead line between the isolated Leys 
and Meadow Barn houses and the linear developments between 
Yaxley and Mellis villages. It would be set in agricultural land 
and, for the AIS variant, would form a diagonal arrangement in 
relation to the small-scale rectangular field pattern. The sealing 
end compound would lie on the western side of the OHL. The 
AIS variant as set out in the application would extend over an 
area of 150 x 150 m and the main equipment would be open to 
the air. The maximum height of equipment would be 12.5 m. 
The indicative layout for the AIS variant submitted with the 
application can be seen in Figure 3 of the Indicative Site layout 
Plans (APP-010) and in the outline landscaping plans (APP-015). 
4.102 The GIS variant would be in a rectangular pattern aligned with 
the existing field boundaries and would cover an area of 100 x 
80 m. Much of the equipment would be enclosed in a substation 
hall with ground plan of 62 x 21 m and maximum height of 12.5 
m. The layout for the GIS variant can be seen in additional 
plans provided in REP-042. The outline landscaping plans for the 
GIS variant can be seen in APP-084. 
4.103 As set out at paragraph 4.73 in the discussion on biodiversity 
277 m of existing hedgerow would be lost with the AIS variant 
and 25 m with the GIS variant. These would principally be at 
the ECC site but with some other losses at the A140 junction. 
During construction topsoil would be stripped and stored in 
temporary stockpiles. There would be structures associated with 
the construction activity, lighting and construction traffic. 
4.104 In the long term, in addition to the loss of hedgerows there 
would be loss of agricultural land and the permanent addition of 
industrial structures of up to 12.5 m with security fencing in a 
rural landscape. In mitigation new hedgerow and woodland 
planting is proposed and the temporary A140 junction would be 
closed on completion of the construction of the ECC. 
4.105 The direct adverse effects in terms of landscape loss as 
evaluated in the ES include: 
(a) Disruption of the historic field pattern; 
(b) Removal of trees and hedgerows to accommodate the 
construction trench where ‘trenchless’ construction is 
impractical in the vicinity of the new A140 Junction; 
(c) 
Permanent displacement of agricultural land required for the 
ECC and Access Road; 
(d) Fragmented areas of agricultural land. 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
45 
 
4.106 These impacts were considered in the ES to be in the moderate 
adverse category and to be significant in terms of the landscape 
character of the immediate area of ancient plateau claylands 
both during construction and operation. 
4.107 In terms of impact on visual amenity the ES considered that the 
ECC and the access road would have impacts on the quality of 
views experienced by people living, working or visiting the 
surrounding area. They would be visible both from fixed 
locations and while moving through the area either on roads or 
footpaths. Hedgerows would filter the views but would provide a 
less effective screen in winter months. 
4.108 The AIS variant for the substation would be more extensive 
than the GIS variant. All its structure would be visible through 
the security fencing until screened by mitigation planting. The 
footprint of the GIS variant would be significantly smaller with 
the majority of the structures sited within buildings which could 
be designed to blend into the surrounding landscape. 
4.109 The visual impact was assessed from a number of viewpoints on 
all sides of the site, all within about 2 km of the ECC. For each 
of these the impacts both during construction and operation 
were considered to be in the moderate adverse and significant 
category. The proposed planting around the ECC would reduce 
the impact as it matured but this was expected to take 15 years 
to reduce the impact to slight adverse but still significant in the 
case of the AIS variant. Screening would have effect earlier, in 
five to seven years, for the GIS variant and could reduce the 
impact to a level that was not significant. 
Lighting 
4.110 Lighting would be required at the generation plant, the AGI and 
the ECC for a mix of operational, safety and security 
requirements. Lighting Design Principles were developed in 
discussion with MSDC and SCC during the Examination and 
these would form the basis for a written scheme of 
management and mitigation to be agreed with the relevant 
planning authority before commencement of the main 
construction activities. These were agreed with MSDC and SCC 
(REP-097) 
4.111 In the final version of the Lighting Design Principles (APP-089, -
090), which included indicative lighting plans, it was agreed that 
lighting should be designed to limit obtrusive light to sensitive 
receptors around the project site. Receptors included nearby 
residents, particularly in Yaxley and Eye and key ecological 
corridors. Lighting would be required at all times for operational 
reasons at the generation plant but lighting at the AGI and the 
ECC would be infrequent and only activated when a security 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
46 
 
system was triggered or if night-time working was required. 
General principles to be followed would include: 
(a) Locating significant sources of light away from sensitive 
landscape and ecological receptors; 
(b) Use of full cut-off luminaires with shields and baffles 
directed downwards to prevent upward and horizontal light; 
(c) 
Use of lower units rather than tall wide beam units to light 
large areas and avoid light spillage; 
(d) Use of infra-red floodlighting and CCTV for security to avoid 
the use of visible lighting outside working hours (NGET 
agreed that this sort of lighting would be acceptable at the 
ECC); 
(e) Use of automated switching to control lights according to 
activity and ambient levels. 
Views of Interested Parties  
4.112 In their joint LIR, MSDC and SCC accepted that the LVIA in the 
ES was effective and robust (REP-051). The local authorities' 
principal concerns were with development of the ECC. In their 
view the LVIA provided a strong justification for any consent 
being limited to a GIS substation. In their view this would 
deliver more than the 'marginally better environmental 
outcome' argued by the applicant. 
4.113 Either option would represent an alien feature in the landscape 
but the AIS variant with its layout across field boundaries did 
not respond to and had not minimised adverse impacts on the 
character of the landscape. The GIS variant would minimise the 
footprint and intrusion of the ECC. Since the application is for 
the AIS variant it was not, in MSDC and SCC's view, consistent 
with local policy on landscape and visual effects. 
4.114 The LIR also contained suggestions for improvements in the 
Landscape Mitigation Strategy and its extension to the GIS 
option. These suggestions were taken forward during the course 
of the Examination. The local authorities also suggested that 
further off-site mitigation could be achieved by woodland and 
hedgerow planting in the vicinity of the development. In the 
final S106 agreement a sum of £54,551 was agreed for off-site 
planting and maintenance. A sum of £5,000 was also agreed for 
monitoring of the on-site landscaping over a ten year period. 
4.115 Most of the local IPs expressed some degree of concern about 
the landscape and visual impact of the proposed development in 
their initial relevant representations. The main focus of concern 
was on the location of the ECC in an agricultural area. There 
was strong opposition to any aspect of the development taking 
place to the west of the A140. A number of IPs questioned why 
the substation could not be located on the Airfield alongside the 
generation plant with underground cable to the existing 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
47 
 
overhead line. Concern was expressed about the possible 
impact of lighting at the development. There was concern about 
lighting both at the power station and the ECC. Any lighting at 
the ECC would introduce light into a rural area that at present 
was dark. 
4.116 The EAPWG in its written representation (REP-031) was 
concerned that little had been done to blend the power station 
and the ECC into the immediate surroundings or to minimise the 
impact on viewpoints over a wide area. The ECC would be hard 
to screen in its rural location. The EAPWG was opposed to both 
the AIS and GIS options but recognised that the visual effects 
could be reduced by adopting the GIS variant. Concern was also 
expressed about the possible visibility of the plume from the 
exhaust stacks. At the first ISH the applicant confirmed that 
because of the high temperature of exhaust gases from a SCGT 
plant there should be no visible plume from the operation of the 
plant (HR-036). 
4.117 The EAPWG provided a detailed report on landscaping and 
screening prepared by a qualified landscape architect (REP-
031). It was argued that the evaluation of impact in the ES was 
flawed in a number of respects. Almost all of the hedgerows 
that would affected by the ECC were species-rich, not species-
poor as assumed in the ES; the photomontages showing 
mitigation of impact through new planting were misleading in 
showing plants in leaf in a winter setting; the proposed use of a 
mix of woodland and hedge planting was inappropriate in this 
field setting; the extent of planting proposed was inadequate to 
provide the screening suggested and would take longer to 
develop than had been assumed.  
4.118 This report concluded that the generation plant would be highly 
prominent and constitute a visual intrusion on a massive 
industrial scale. The sensitivity of the proposed site for the ECC 
made this an altogether unsuitable location regardless of 
whether the AIS or GIS option was considered. The application 
failed to follow the SCC Landscape Character Assessment 
guidelines and should be refused. 
4.119 The EAPWG and other IPs also submitted detailed comment on 
the impact on heritage and historic assets and these are 
considered in the following section. 
Conclusions on landscape and visual impact. 
Generation plant, gas connection and AGI 
4.120 The guidance in EN-1 acknowledges that virtually all NSIPs will 
have effects on the landscape and have visual effects for many 
people. The aim in designing a project should be to minimise 
the harm to the landscape and visual effects and provide 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
48 
 
reasonable mitigation. EN-2 states that if the location for a 
fossil fuel generation project is appropriate and it has been 
designed sensitively to minimise harm to landscape and visual 
amenity then the visibility of the generating station should be 
given limited weight.  
4.121 The generation plant would add to the industrialisation of the 
Airfield. The buildings and stacks would be visible from the 
nearby town of Eye and neighbouring villages but mitigation 
planting as set out in the outline landscaping plans and the 
landscape mitigation strategy and secured in the DCO would 
help to provide a screen over the years. The stacks would be 
visible over a much wider area and, although not as high as 
existing structure nearby, including the four wind turbines, 
would be a significant feature on the skyline. The choice of 
SCGT technology allows stack height to be kept to a maximum 
of 30 m and would not result in any visible plume. The revised 
DPS with further consultation and a Design Review would allow 
further mitigation of impact through design to be incorporated 
into any final development. In addition the Lighting Design 
Principles have been developed and agreed with MSDC and 
SCC. In my view adherence to the agreed approach to 
landscaping, design and lighting for the generation plant, which 
would be secured through provisions in the DCO meets the 
requirements of EN-1 and EN-2. 
4.122 The gas connection and AGI would also have some adverse 
impact on landscape and visual amenity although this would be 
confined to the immediate vicinity of the development. The 
balance between any remaining adverse effects from the 
generation plant and the AGI and any benefits from the project, 
including the need for new generating capacity is considered 
later in this report. 
The electricity connection compound 
4.123 The development of the ECC with associated cable laying and 
access road would introduce an industrial type of development 
into an agricultural area, albeit an area which is crossed by a 
major overhead power line. With the AIS variant a considerable 
length of existing hedgerow would be removed and the layout of 
the ECC would sit diagonally across the existing field boundary 
orientation. The ECC would be visible from nearby houses and 
from a number of small villages surrounding the site. It would 
also be visible from some more distant locations. The impact on 
landscape and visual amenity is acknowledged in the ES to be 
significant. Mitigation planting would soften the impact but, for 
the applicant's preferred AIS variant this could take 15 years to 
develop. The lighting plans, including the use of infra-red 
lighting for security should be adequate to avoid any adverse 
impact from lighting in the rural area. 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
49 
 
4.124 The GIS variant would provide some further mitigation of the 
impact by providing a design with a much smaller footprint 
involving only a small loss of existing hedgerow and would be 
aligned with existing field boundaries. Much, but not all of the 
equipment would be installed inside a building. That would still 
result in a new intrusion into the agricultural landscape but this 
could be designed to blend in with the agricultural location and 
other farm buildings nearby. In my view the GIS variant does 
provide the opportunity to reduce the impact of the ECC on 
landscape and visual amenity compared with the AIS variant. It 
would therefore be consistent with the principle of minimising 
harm as set out in EN-1to prefer the GIS variant. However, as 
noted at paragraph 2.23 there may be an additional cost 
associated with the GIS option and I will take this into account, 
along with NGET's obligations as transmission operator in 
considering the balance of costs and benefits later in this report. 
HERITAGE AND HISTORIC ASSETS 
4.125 The section of EN-1 concerned with the historic environment 
recognises that the construction, operation and 
decommissioning of energy infrastructure has the potential to 
result in adverse impacts on those elements in the historic 
environment which hold value to future generations because of 
their historic, archaeological, architectural or artistic interest. 
These heritage assets may have statutory designation but there 
may be assets of archaeological interest that are not currently 
designated but which are demonstrably of equivalent 
significance. EN-1 states that the absence of designation for 
such heritage assets does not indicate lower significance. If they 
may be affected by a proposed development then they should 
be subject to the same policy consideration as designated 
assets. Consideration should also be given to other non-
designated assets on the basis of evidence that they have a 
heritage significance that merits consideration even though they 
may be of lesser value than designated heritage assets. 
4.126 The decision maker should seek to identify and assess the 
significance of any heritage asset that might be affected by the 
development including development affecting the setting of the 
assets. There should be a presumption in favour of the 
conservation of designated heritage assets and the more 
significant the heritage asset the greater the presumption in 
favour of its conservation should be. Significance can be 
harmed or lost through alteration or destruction of the heritage 
asset or development within its setting. Loss affecting any 
designated heritage asset should require clear and convincing 
justification. Substantial harm to a grade II listed asset should 
be exceptional. Substantial harm to a scheduled monument or a 
grade I or grade II* listed asset should be wholly exceptional. 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
50 
 
4.127 Any harmful impact on the significance of a designated asset 
should be weighed against the public benefit of the 
development. Where the application would lead to substantial 
harm or total loss of significance of a designated heritage asset 
the decision maker should refuse consent unless it can be 
demonstrated that this is necessary in order to deliver 
substantial public benefits that outweigh that loss or harm. 
Views of the applicant 
4.128 The potential impact of the development on the setting and 
significance of heritage assets was considered in the ES. The 
impact on Scheduled Monuments (SM), Listed Buildings (LB) 
and Conservation Areas were considered as well as non-
designated assets. The assessment took into account the 
guidance on the historic environment in EN-1, the NPPF and 
local planning policies. It was carried out in accordance with 
Institute for Archaeologists (IfA) and EH guidelines. The 
technical terminology applied to the assessment process in this 
document is based on that contained the Cultural Heritage 
Section of the Design Manual for Road and Bridges (DMRB) 
issued by the Highways Agency in 2007 enhanced as 
appropriate for Heritage Assets.10 
4.129 The assessment looked separately at the impact of the 
development on the significance and the setting of each historic 
asset. Significance was defined as the value of a heritage asset 
to this and future generations because of its heritage interest. 
The definition of setting taken from the NPPF was '… the 
surroundings in which an asset is experienced. Its extent is not 
fixed and may change as the asset and its surroundings evolve. 
Elements of setting may make a positive or negative 
contribution to the significance of an asset …' The assessment 
considered impacts in an Inner Study Area extending 1 km from 
the edge of the project site and an Outer Study Area extending 
5 km from the centre of the site. 
4.130 A cultural or sensitivity value was assigned to the significance of 
each asset ranging from Very High (International) down to 
Negligible (Neighbourhood) or Uncertain with the measure of 
harm ranging from Substantial through to Negligible or No 
Change. Setting can contribute to the significance of an asset 
through its physical surroundings, the way it is experienced or 
though relationships between assets, cultural links or other 
factors. Sensitivity of the setting of an asset was considered to 
be very high where setting made a very high contribution to the 
significance of the asset. A matrix approach was adopted to 
make a subjective assessment of the magnitude of impact of 
the development taking into account both the value of each 
10 Design Manual for Roads and Bridges, 2007 
http://www.standardsforhighways.co.uk/dmrb/vol11/section3/ha20807.pdf 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
51 
                                       
 
 
asset and the sensitivity of its setting. A magnitude of impact of 
moderate or above was considered as significant (APP-033). 
4.131 No SMs were identified in the Inner Study Area but 12 were 
recorded in the Outer Study Area. These included the remains 
of the motte and bailey castle in Eye from which the generation 
plant would be visible. 72 LBs were identified in the Inner Study 
Area. Two of these are Grade I and six are Grade II*. Over 400 
LBs were identified in the Outer Study Area of which five were 
Grade 1 and 22 Grade II*. 
4.132 A number of non-designated heritage assets (HA) were 
identified in the Inner Study Area. These include 23 findspots 
with individual items dating from the prehistoric period (flints, 
axes), the Romano-British period (coins, pottery) and medieval 
items (brooches, metalwork and pottery). Only one of these 
finds was within the boundaries of the proposed development. 
20 larger heritage assets were identified as lying within the site 
of the proposed development. These include the Iron Age field 
system within the ECC (HA10) and medieval field boundaries on 
the Airfield (HA31), the Roman Road (HA41) which would be 
crossed by the ECC access road and the Airfield itself where the 
generation plant would be located (HA32). In addition there are 
a number of medieval heritage assets within the Inner Study 
Area. These include Large Green at Mellis (HA01), Little and 
Great Green at Thrandeston (HA04, HA20) and the moated site 
at Goswald Hall (HA21). A geophysical survey was carried out 
across the development site. This identified three areas of 
potential archaeological evidence. 
4.133 Construction of the generation plant has the potential to impact 
on buried archaeology and would impact directly on the non-
designated assets HA31 and HA32, the medieval field 
boundaries on the Airfield and the Airfield itself. There would be 
a substantial and permanent adverse effect on these assets but 
they were considered to be of low local significance. Overall the 
ES concluded that there would be a moderate or slight adverse 
effect from construction of the plant which was not considered 
significant. There would be no further impact on these assets 
during operation or decommissioning. There are a number of 
designated assets in the Inner and Outer Study Areas which 
have national significance some of which would have a direct 
line of sight to the generation plant. Intervening planting would 
reduce the impact for many of these assets. For most of the 
designated assets the effect on setting would be slight. For 
others the adverse effect could be in the slight to moderate 
range. These impacts apply both during construction and 
operation. The construction and the operation of the gas 
connection and AGI were not expected to add any further 
impact to heritage assets. 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
52 
 
4.134 Excavation for the electrical connection, the access road, the 
A140 junction and the foundations of the ECC all have the 
potential to impact directly on buried archaeology. Seven 
field/field boundaries of potential Iron Age date (HA10) lie 
within the ECC. With the AIS variant two existing field 
boundaries and five historic boundaries which are no longer 
extant above ground would be affected; with the GIS variant 
only one existing field boundary and one historic boundary 
would be affected. There could be a substantial adverse effect 
on these assets which was considered to be of moderate to 
large significance. Scatters of medieval metalwork may be 
indicative of an Anglo-Saxon cemetery which could be of 
regional significance and may be affected by the ECC. The 
Roman Road would also be directly impacted by the cable 
corridor and access road. The significance of the effect on these 
assets was considered to be moderate or slight. 
4.135 The ES considered that the significance of the field system and 
medieval scatter that could be affected by the ECC was 
uncertain and had not been fully investigated but they were 
considered to be of regional significance. Fieldwork investigation 
would be carried out in line with a brief issued by SCC's 
Archaeologist. Assets identified would be preserved in situ if 
possible in line with NPPF recommendations. If this was not 
possible there would be a topographic survey of extant 
earthworks followed by trial trenching. A written scheme of 
investigation (WSI) for the whole project site would be agreed 
with SCC. 
4.136 The ES concluded that the construction of all elements of the 
development had the potential to have a temporary adverse 
effect on the setting of designated assets including 12 SMs, 455 
LBs and 5 CAs. The adverse effect would be slight to moderate 
or slight and, therefore, not significant or requiring mitigation. 
The effect on the setting of non-designated assets was 
considered to be neutral or slight. The construction work would 
have a direct substantial adverse effect on the non-designated 
assets at the ECC and the generation plant, particularly the field 
boundaries. It was acknowledged that the impact on the field 
system at the ECC could be reduced by using the GIS variant. 
There was also the potential to have a substantial adverse 
effect on undiscovered archaeology on all parts of the site. 
Views of the local planning authorities 
4.137 In their joint LIR, MSDC and SCC identified effects on the 
historic environment as one of their matters of overriding 
concern. They considered that the approach to the possible 
impacts of the development on heritage assets in the ES was 
unclear and that scant consideration had been given to the 
setting of Grade II listed buildings or to the Conservation Areas 
in Eye, Mellis and Thrandeston. The setting of historic assets 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
53 
 
and the contribution that setting makes to their significance had 
not been adequately established. Commentary on setting in the 
ES had largely been confined to the potential inter-visibility 
between components of the project and assets. MSDC and SCC 
provided their own assessment of the impact of the 
development on the designated heritage assets in Eye, Mellis, 
Thrandeston and Yaxley. For 24 of the 71 listed assets the 
overall effect of the development on the significance of the 
asset was considered to be harmful, for the other 47 the effect 
was neutral. The effect on the three Conservation Areas of Eye, 
Mellis and Thrandeston was also considered to be harmful. 
4.138 MSDC and SCC considered that the rarity and significance of the 
historic field system which potentially dates back to the Iron 
Age and would be affected by the ECC had not been fully 
recognised in the ES. The work of Professor Tom Williamson 
was cited.11 He had identified remains of ancient field systems 
surviving on a large scale in this part of Suffolk. Although there 
had been a long history of piecemeal alteration and some 
boundaries had been removed the framework of ancient 
boundaries and trackways still survived. The predominant 
north-south axis of the field systems was still relatively intact in 
the area of the proposed ECC between Judas Lane and Leys 
Lane which are themselves major features of the historic 
landscape. According to Professor Williamson 'Centuries of 
piecemeal alteration have preserved the essential orientation of 
field layout.'   
4.139 No detailed evaluation of these field boundaries was available at 
the time the LIR was prepared but MSDC and SCC were of the 
opinion that the loss of individual components of the field 
system had the potential to have significant adverse effects on 
the overall historic landscape character in the area and not the 
neutral or moderate to slight effect set out in the ES. The AIS 
variant, positioned diagonally across the alignment of the 
existing field boundaries would result in a substantial change in 
the historic landscape and the associated woodland planting 
would further undermine the character of the area. The AIS 
variant made little attempt to set the ECC within the existing 
landscape structure in order to minimise its impact on historic 
features. The impact on the landscape would be reduced with 
the GIS variant which would fit into the field system with the 
loss of only one historic field boundary. This would provide more 
than the 'marginally better environmental outcome' asserted in 
the ES. Offsite planting to be agreed through a S106 agreement 
could also help to reinforce the historic character of the 
landscape but could not mitigate for the loss of historic features 
associated with the footprint of the ECC. 
11 Williamson T. 1987. Early Co-axial Field Systems on the East Anglian Boulder Clays. Proceedings of 
the Prehistoric Society 53, 419 - 431. 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
54 
                                       
 
 
4.140 Below ground archaeological remains are suspected or known in 
the area, including field boundaries and Anglo Saxon 
metalwork. A WSI needed to be agreed with SCC and included 
as a requirement in the DCO. 
4.141 Further discussions on these issues took place between the local 
authorities and the applicant during the course of the 
Examination. In response to the LIR the applicant submitted a 
further Review of the Setting of Heritage Assets (Appendix B, 
REP-056). This gave additional prominence to certain elements 
of the original assessment, particularly in respect of 
Conservation Areas. It included a comparison of the assessment 
of harm to historic assets using the ES methodology and the 
approach adopted by MSDC. The applicant argued that a clear 
comparison could not be made between individual assessments 
because the classification of 'harmful' used by MSDC did not 
give any indication of the degree of harm. It could not therefore 
be used to reach a conclusion on whether the setting of an 
asset was harmed to the extent that it would undermine the 
significance of the asset as was required by EN-1.  
4.142 The applicant also commissioned a report on the Eye to Yaxley 
field systems from Dr Adrian Chadwick, a published specialist in 
Iron Age and Romano-British field systems and rural 
settlement, (Appendix D, REP-056). This set out the results of 
research into the possible date and potential significance of the 
co-axial field systems identified in the ES. Dr Chadwick 
reviewed material presented in the ES, relevant academic 
publications and other publically available material. The report 
considered country wide information on co-axial field systems 
and the evidence for these systems in East Anglia and Suffolk 
before considering the proposed development. None of the field 
boundaries were considered to be of high or very high 
significance. Leys Lane was considered to be of medium 
significance for the contribution it could make to regional 
research objectives. Other field boundaries were considered to 
be of low significance. The report concluded that some but not 
all of the field and trackway boundaries affected by the 
development could be of medieval or earlier origin. Leys Lane 
could have its origins in the Iron Age but the surviving 
hedgerows were likely to be of medieval or later origin. If 
disturbance of hedgerows could not be avoided archaeological 
mitigation would be necessary.  
4.143 SCC was critical of Dr Chadwick's analysis arguing that he had 
focused too much on the age of individual hedgerows rather 
than taking a wider view of the longevity of the field 
boundaries. Nonetheless SCC welcomed his view that the ECC 
would be located within an ancient field system in the form of 
trackways (Leys Lane and Judas Lane), banks, ditches and 
hedgerows (alongside below-ground remains) (REP-062). 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
55 
 
4.144 Dr Chadwick subsequently submitted a reassessment of the 
possible date and significance of the field systems as an 
independent consultant (REP-083). He acknowledged the 
validity of some of the criticisms of his earlier report made by 
SCC and others. He had considered that report to be a first 
draft not the final version for publication. He accepted that 
there was additional information to take into account and that it 
was important to take account of the importance of the overall 
field system and not to focus too much on individual elements 
within it. In the light of the comments received and the 
additional information provided he concluded that there were 
field boundaries along Leys Lane of high significance in the 
proposed development area, other boundaries were of high to 
medium significance and a few of medium to low significance . 
Overall the Eye-Yaxley field system was, in his view, 'a rare 
example of upstanding, extant field boundaries that nonetheless 
reflect much earlier periods of land allotment and land-use, and 
as such it must be regarded as having a High Significance and 
potentially national importance.' 
4.145 Further expert evidence was provided on behalf of the applicant 
at the second ISH by David Bonner, Technical Director of 
Network Archaeology Ltd (HR-044, -049). He considered 
whether the undesignated field system met the test in EN-1 of 
being 'demonstrably of equivalent significance to a scheduled 
monument' and therefore subject to the same policy 
considerations as a designated asset. He reviewed the evidence 
on the field system against the criteria set out in EH's criteria 
for scheduling.  
4.146 The criteria considered are: 
(a) Period: The origin of the field system was agreed to be late 
pre-historic, but there is an on-going debate about the 
dating of the existing system. The asset derives its 
significance from a range of dates. In Mr Bonner's view this 
alone would not be a criterion for considering it to be of 
national importance. 
(b) Rarity/Diversity: Co-axial field systems are an important 
part of the East Anglian landscape. They exist locally, 
regionally and nationally. Rarity could be related to size or 
pattern both of which had been cited in this case. He did not 
consider that current size alone made the system important. 
(c) 
Survival and condition: Other experts had suggested that 
the survival of the field system was 'moderate to good'. He 
noted that there had been a notable loss of extant 
boundaries and other features. He considered this 
debateable without a fuller understanding of the original 
extent of the system. In his view the surviving condition 
was likely to be no greater than 'moderate'. 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
56 
 
(d) Fragility and Vulnerability: The field boundaries may not be 
robust features but in his view they are only vulnerable in 
that they are located in a working landscape. 
(e) Documentation/finds and Potential: There is knowledge of 
the field system from maps and photographs but limited 
evidential information on the field boundaries. This could be 
enhanced through archaeological investigation. In his view 
much of this particular asset's value derives from its 
potential in that respect. 
(f) 
Group value: Association with other assets could be 
important. He had not identified any positively dated 
associations with other assets and he did not consider that 
associations with other assets contributed significantly to 
the value of the field system. 
4.147 Based on his assessment against these criteria Mr Bonner 
concluded that the field system was of regional importance and 
of medium value. He did not consider it to be of demonstrably 
equal significance to a scheduled monument. 
4.148 Following receipt of Dr Chadwick's report submitted by the 
applicant, Dr Chadwick's subsequent reassessment and the 
submission at the ISH by Mr Bonner, the local authorities 
submitted further detailed comment on the impact of the 
development on the field system HA10 (HR-058, AS-044). This 
criticised Mr Bonner's analysis as unsubstantiated in many 
respects, partial and therefore far from compelling. In the view 
of the local authorities the time-depth of the field system adds 
greatly to its significance and its visible persistence and scale in 
the modern landscape establishes its rarity on a national scale. 
The survival of field boundaries over two millennia is 
remarkable and combined with documentary evidence and 
group value confirms the views of Professor Williamson and Dr 
Chadwick that the field system is potentially of national 
importance and therefore of schedulable quality. 
4.149 A further analysis of the field boundaries within the boundary of 
the development was provided. The local authorities argued 
that the extent of loss of field boundaries had been understated. 
The ES had stated that there were two existing and five historic 
field boundaries within the ECC. The numbering on the 
Important Hedgerow Plan submitted by the applicant (AS-014) 
showed seven existing hedgerows within the ECC boundary. 
Updated information provided by the applicant following the 
second ISH (HR-049) indicated a total length of 570 m for the 
extant field boundaries within the ECC which it was assumed 
would be lost under the original application. The local 
authorities considered that under the original proposal one 
length of 66 m was expected to be retained so that this total 
should be reduced to 504 m. The applicant argued that with the 
refined AIS boundary only 277 m would be lost but the local 
authorities considered that a further 176 m would, in effect, be 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
57 
 
lost because they would be subsumed into the woodland 
planting scheme and would no longer contribute to the 
appreciation of HA10. On this basis the total loss of field 
boundaries with the refined AIS variant would be 453 m. The 
local authorities agreed with the applicant that the loss of 
boundaries with the GIS variant was 25 m. 
4.150 MSDC and SCC also drew attention to some confusion on the 
definition of HA10. In the original desk based assessment it is 
stated that 'A relict co-axial field system has been identified 
within Yaxley parish and extends into the Electrical Connection 
Site (Williamson 1987). It is likely that this asset dates to the 
Iron Age as some of the fields have been bisected by the later 
Roman Road (HA41). The field system comprises rectangular 
and square fields interspersed with trackways.' However it did 
not appear that the applicant intended HA10 to cover the whole 
area referred to by Professor Williamson. Figure 13.6 in the ES 
showed the field boundaries to the east of Judas Lane and west 
of the A140 centred on the ECC site. Although wider areas had 
been referred to in later submissions from the applicant, the 
local authorities took the view that for the purpose of assessing 
the impact of the development and reflecting the uniquely intact 
nature of the coaxial landscape it would be appropriate to take 
the area between Judas Lane and Leys Lane as the major 
articulating features defining HA10. 
4.151 MSDC and SCC commented further on the possible designation 
of field boundaries (REP-085). They made reference to EH 
guidance on monuments associated with agriculture.12 It was 
unlikely that heritage assets such as the Eye-Yaxley field 
system would be considered appropriate for scheduling but this 
did not mean that an asset is not of national importance. 
Scheduling covering extensive areas is the exception because of 
the controls that would be introduced over actively farmed 
areas. Other management measures including the planning 
system are considered to be more effective in delivering 
appropriate protection. In this regard the local authorities drew 
attention to the provisions of EN-1 on the protection to be given 
to undesignated assets. 
4.152 Following discussions between the applicant, MSDC and SCC 
and taking into account the views of experts submitted during 
the course of the Examination the SoCG was updated in respect 
of Cultural Heritage. In the final SoCG (REP-106) it was agreed 
that the Stage 1 and Stage 2 of the WSI combined with agreed 
mitigation measures, were adequate in respect of the treatment 
of buried archaeology and would be secured through the DCO. 
It was agreed that with the AIS variant the impact of the ECC 
on the Ancient Plateau Claylands Landscape Character would be 
12 http://www.english-heritage.org.uk/publications/dssg-
agriculture/121213_Agriculture_SSG_final.pdf   
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
58 
                                       
 
 
Moderate Adverse and that the impact on the field system HA10 
would be substantial adverse. It was agreed that no built 
heritage assets within the Inner or Outer Study Areas would be 
subject to substantial harm; that there would be some degree 
of harm to such assets but it would be less than substantial.  
4.153 Agreement was not reached on the following points: 
(a) The applicant considers that the field system HA10 is of no 
more than regional importance, as reported in the ES. The 
local authorities consider that HA10 is of at least regional 
importance. 
(b) The applicant's view is that in the absence of conclusive 
evidence to suggest that the affected boundaries are of 
lower importance, the impact on the field boundaries and 
system, as both an above ground and below ground 
heritage asset is that there would be a Moderate/Large 
adverse effect on the basis of the loss of all field boundaries 
within the Order Limits (as assessed in the ES). The local 
authorities consider that there is a large adverse effect on 
HA10. 
(c) 
The applicant's view is that an AIS substation is suitable and 
acceptable, having regard to its impact on the extant co-
axial field boundaries, and that a GIS substation would only 
result in ‘marginally reduced’ environmental impacts. This 
was not accepted by the local authorities.  
(d) The applicant's view is that the outline landscape plans for 
the AIS substation sufficiently respond to the landscape 
character of the area. The local authorities' view is that the 
orientation of the substation across the fieldscape creates 
the need for an uncharacteristic woodland layout that does 
not follow the underlying pattern of enclosure. 
(e) There was a difference of view on the degree of harm in 
respect to 28 heritage assets due either to interpretation of 
the setting of specific assets or the assessment of the 
degree of harm to the setting. 
Views of English Heritage 
4.154 EH, in its written representation, stated that it considered that 
the development had the potential to impact upon the historic 
environment both directly, through permanent physical 
changes, and indirectly through changes to the setting of 
heritage assets (REP-025). EH was critical of the assessment 
provided in the ES. The assessment of the significance of 
individual heritage assets was often incomplete and appeared to 
be based on a limited notion of what constitutes the setting of a 
heritage asset. Prioritising the study of assets based on their 
grade of designation might not give adequate weight to other 
assets. 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
59 
 
4.155 EH considered that the visual impact of development of the 
generation plant would result in a degree of harm to the 
significance of Eye Castle, the Eye Conservation Area and Eye 
parish church. The ECC had the potential to result in a degree of 
harm to the wider settings of Mellis and Thrandeston 
Conservation Areas, Thrandeston parish church, Yaxley Manor, 
Yaxley Hall and possibly Rook Hall. Little could be done to 
mitigate the impact of the generation plant. Location of the ECC 
on the Airfield would result in a significant reduction in the 
impact on Mellis, Thrandeston and Yaxley with little or no 
greater impact on assets in Eye. The GIS variant for the ECC 
would still result in harmful visual impact but had the potential 
for mitigation if placed in alignment with existing field 
boundaries. 
4.156 On the significance of the field systems which were 
undesignated, EH deferred to SCC Archaeology Service but 
noted that the field systems boundaries, whether of prehistoric 
or later date, were unusual survivals of considerable significance 
(REP-066). 
Views of other interested parties 
4.157 The Prehistoric Society submitted representations drawing 
attention to the prehistoric field systems (AS-008, -025). It 
argued that preserved prehistoric field systems were 
remarkably rare in England. The proposed ECC would impact on 
seven potentially Iron Age co-axial field systems. The removal 
of these archaeological features would be extremely detrimental 
to the archaeological landscape and to understanding of pre-
Roman landscape in East Anglia. This could be considered as 
substantial harm and the assets should be left intact. 
4.158 The Suffolk Preservation Society in its initial representation (RR-
065,) drew attention to the rich cultural heritage of the area. 
The industrialising effect of the project, in particular the siting of 
the ECC, would, in the Society's view, result in harm to the 
setting of many designated heritage assets. The rural historic 
villages rely upon their agricultural setting as part of their 
intrinsic historic significance. The application of the 
methodology used to assess the impacts of the scheme had 
failed to provide a clear and accessible narrative account of how 
the significance of the heritage assets’ setting would be affected 
and how the development would reduce or enhance that 
significance. The impacts on the Conservation Areas of Mellis, 
Thrandeston and Eye had not been adequately assessed. The 
impact upon the archaeological resource had not been 
adequately quantified and the project would result in substantial 
adverse impacts on significant non-designated heritage assets.  
4.159 In its written representation and later submission the Society 
set out a detailed analysis of how it considered individual assets 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
60 
 
and locations would be affected by the development (REP-019, -
076). In the Society's view the analysis in the ES was flawed in 
taking a narrow approach to assessing effects of setting on 
significance and in not reviewing all designated assets. As a 
result the ES significantly underestimated the impact of the 
development on the rural setting of a wide range of heritage 
assets. 
4.160 The EAPWG in its written representation (REP-031) noted that 
the area affected by the development had one of the highest 
densities of medieval and sub-medieval buildings and church 
heritage in the country. The impact of the development on the 
setting of built heritage and nearby Conservation Areas was 
understated by the ES as a result of flawed methodology. The 
proposed site of the ECC and access route completely ignored 
the field boundaries of pre-Roman conquest origin in its 
orientation and location. The area is an attractive and unspoilt 
block of countryside rich in natural and man-made heritage. 
This would be blighted by the presence of the ECC with no 
consideration of the layout of the land. 
4.161 During the course of the Examination the EAPWG made a 
number of further submissions focussed in particular but not 
exclusively on landscape and visual impact (referred to in 
paragraphs 4.116 to 4.118 above) and harm to the significance 
of heritage assets (REP-077, AS-016, -019, -028). The EAPWG's 
final submission (AS-043) provided a summary of these 
contributions. In respect of heritage assets the main points 
highlighted were: 
(a) The applicant had considerably understated the adverse 
impact the proposal would have on the local heritage, 
including the pre-Roman co-axial field system, the damage 
to which could be detrimental on a national scale. 
(b) Statements in support of the importance of the field system 
had been provided by Professor Tom Williamson of the 
University of East Anglia, Dr Helen Geake, of the British 
Museum and Dr Jane Sidell on behalf of the Prehistoric 
Society. These reaffirmed the rarity, importance and 
significance of the surviving ancient landscape which should 
be safeguarded for future generations. 
(c) 
The EAPWG supported the detailed assessment of the 
impact on designated heritage assets submitted by the 
Suffolk Preservation Society with its emphasis on the very 
special historic landscape and wealth of built heritage 
around the proposed development site. These views were 
consistent with opinions expressed by EH, MSDC and SCC. 
(d) There was unanimity amongst interested parties that the 
area was of much greater historic and landscape 
significance than had been appreciated by the applicant at 
the outset of the project. The significance and magnitude of 
adverse effects identified meant that it was unacceptable to 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
61 
 
disregard alternative locations for the development. This 
view was supported by legal submissions which are 
considered below. 
(e) The EAPWG endorsed the stance of all of the expert 
opinions, apart from Mr Bonner, that there was sufficient 
evidence to justify regarding the field system as being of 
potential national significance. The applicant had not 
demonstrably shown that no harm would occur to this 
historic site and the precautionary principle should be 
applied in considering the development. 
(f) 
The EAPWG had considered ways in which the impact on its 
member communities could be mitigated but it had grave 
concerns that some of the elements of the proposal were 
impossible to mitigate satisfactorily and their impact 
remained unacceptable and disproportionate to the public 
benefit. 
(g) The benefits to the local economy, except during the 
construction phase, would probably be negative and the 
national benefit would be the production of less than 0.1% 
of the country's electricity demand. In EAPWG's view the 
public benefits did not outweigh the significant harm 
identified. The applicant had failed to demonstrate through 
the consideration of alternative sites and their associated 
impacts that this harm is necessary and unavoidable. The 
DCO should be recommended for refusal.  
Legal submissions 
4.162 The final legal submission from Counsel for the EAPWG 
addressed the need for and the adequacy of the applicant's 
assessment of alternative sites (AS-043). It was argued that: 
(a) It had become clear during the Examination that the ECC 
would cause substantial irreversible harm to the ancient 
field pattern. Both the AIS and GIS options would cause 
substantial harm within the most sensitive part of the 
historic ancient rural landscape. It would severely erode the 
current ability of the observer to perceive the ancient 
structure of field boundaries largely unaffected by modern 
development on any scale. The EAPWG, EH and the joint 
local authorities had produced cogent evidence from 
acknowledged experts to support this conclusion. The 
impact on designated and undesignated assets would be 
substantial 
(b) Presumption against development that causes harm to 
heritage assets is set out in EN-1. The relevant sections of 
EN-1 were the presumption in favour of the conservation of 
designated assets (5.8.14); the guidance that where the 
application would lead to substantial harm or the loss of 
significance of a designated asset [the IPC] should refuse 
consent unless it can be demonstrated that the substantial 
harm to or loss of significance is necessary in order to 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
62 
 
deliver substantial public benefit that outweigh that loss or 
harm (5.8.15); there are heritage assets with archaeological 
interest that are not currently designated as scheduled 
monuments, but which are demonstrably of equivalent 
significance (5.8.4) … The absence of designation for such 
heritage assets does not indicate lower significance. If the 
evidence … indicates that a non-designated heritage asset 
of the type described in 5.8.4 may be affected by the 
proposed development then the heritage asset should be 
considered subject to the same policy considerations as 
those that apply to designated heritage assets (5.8.5). 
(c) 
The effect on designated and non-designated assets is 
demonstrably significant. The onus is therefore on the 
applicant to show that the harm is necessary in order to 
deliver the public benefits. Effectively the applicant must 
show that the harm is unavoidable. If the benefits can be 
achieved elsewhere or in some other way without causing 
that harm it cannot be said that the harm is unavoidable. 
(d) Information concerning alternatives to the proposed 
development that is required to be included in the ES as a 
relevant consideration. Implicit in the consideration of 
alternatives is the proposition that the minimising of 
adverse environmental impacts of large infrastructure 
projects is to be treated as an intrinsic part of site selection. 
Case law suggests that there should be a rigorous 
assessment of potential alternatives. The applicant has 
failed to carry out such a rigorous assessment and has not 
provided information to validate its assertion that none of 
the other sites considered but not chosen for development 
were suitable. 
4.163 Attention was drawn to the provisions of section 66 and 72 of 
the Planning (Listed Buildings and Conservation Areas) Act 
1990. This requires the decision maker to have special regard to 
the desirability of preserving an LB or its setting. This has been 
the subject of recent decisions by the Court of Appeal in the 
Barnwell Manor case and the High Court in the Forge Field 
Society case.13  It was argued that these recent authorities had 
now established that considerable importance and weight 
should be given to the harm to the setting of listed buildings 
even where the harm is less than substantial. The Forge Field 
case had recognised that there was a need for a suitably 
rigorous assessment of potential alternatives where the 
development causes harm to the setting of designated heritage 
assets. Reference was also made to an earlier Court of Appeal 
case involving Trust House Forte in which the view had been 
taken that where there are planning objections to development 
on a particular site it may well be relevant and indeed 
13 Barnwell Manor Wind Energy Ltd v E. Northamptonshire DC (2012) EWCA Civ 137 and R (The Forge 
Field Society) v Sevenoaks DC (2014) EWHC 1895 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
63 
                                       
 
 
necessary to consider whether there is a more appropriate site 
elsewhere.14  
4.164 It was acknowledged that the decision in Forge Field was not of 
direct application but it identified a legal principle that could be 
applied in the current case because there is a strong 
presumption against harm to heritage assets. This could be 
traced back in case law at least to Trust House Forte. 
4.165 The conclusion of this analysis was that the only safe option 
open to the Secretary of State would be to refuse the 
application for reasons which include the substantial harm to 
the significance of important heritage assets and the applicant's 
failure to provide or disclose a rigorous assessment of 
alternative sites referring to their environmental effects that 
could indicate that such harm was a necessity. 
4.166 The applicant provided a detailed rebuttal of the arguments set 
out in the EAPWG's legal submissions (AS-023). Section 66 of 
the Planning (Listed Buildings and Conservation Areas) Act 1990 
and the duty to have 'special regard' did not apply to decisions 
to grant development consent under PA 2008. For decisions 
under PA 2008 the Decisions Regulations set out a duty to 'have 
regard' to the desirability of preserving certain heritage assets. 
In the applicant's view the Barnwell Manor and Forge Field 
Society decisions were not directly applicable to the application. 
The applicant acknowledged that under PA 2008 the Secretary 
of State must have regard to 'any other matters which the 
Secretary of State thinks are both important and relevant'. He 
could therefore have regard to the duty to have 'special regard' 
in the Town and Country Planning regime. This was relevant to 
the weight to be attached to any adverse effects of the 
development and not to the adequacy of the environmental 
information provided. 
4.167 The applicant noted that EN-1 did not contain any general 
requirement to consider alternatives or to establish whether the 
proposed project represents the best option. EN-1 set out the 
principles that applied to the consideration of alternatives. The 
EIA Regulations also required an explanation of the alternatives 
considered but did not require the applicant actively to seek out 
and consider alternatives. The applicant's view was that it had 
complied with the requirements of the NPS and the EIA 
Regulations.  
Conclusions on Heritage and Historic Assets 
4.168 The potential impact of the development on heritage and 
historic assets has been explored in detail during the course of 
the Examination both in written submissions and at the ISH. I 
14 Trust House Forte v Secretary of State (1986) 53 P&CR 293 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
64 
                                       
 
 
have also viewed the main locations that might be affected on 
the accompanied site visit and on separate unaccompanied 
visits. Views have been expressed on which assets might be 
affected, the magnitude of any impact, the significance of that 
impact and the implications of any findings for the DCO. 
Following the distinctions set out in EN-1 I have considered the 
possible impact on three categories of heritage asset: 
(a) Designated assets - 12 SM, 455 LBs and five Conservation 
Areas; 
(b) Heritage assets with archaeological significance not 
currently designated as SM but which it has been argued by 
some IPs are demonstrably of equivalent significance - 
principally the field system and field boundaries, HA10; 
(c) 
Non-designated assets which are of lower value than 
designated heritage assets. 
Designated assets 
4.169 The area is rich in designated assets and attention has been 
drawn to their collective value as part of the heritage of the 
area as well as their individual status. 
4.170 I am satisfied that none of the designated assets would be 
directly affected by the proposed development in the sense that 
no part of an asset would be destroyed. The concerns expressed 
are about the impact of the development on the setting of these 
assets and how changes might affect their significance. 
Questions were raised about the adequacy of the assessment of 
impact on setting provided in the ES and some further 
information and explanation was provided by the applicant 
during the course of the Examination. I consider that adequate 
information has been provided on which to base a judgment of 
impact. 
4.171 All parties, including the applicant, accept that there would be a 
degree of harm to the significance of at least some of the 
designated assets identified in the study area. Views have 
differed on the extent of that harm. The Suffolk Preservation 
Society has argued that for some assets, such as the Mellis and 
Thrandeston Conservation Areas and individual listed buildings, 
this would result in significant harm to their setting and 
significance. MSDC and SCC listed 28 assets on which they 
disagreed with the applicant's assessment of harm. These 
include grade I, grade II* and grade II LBs for which the 
applicant has assessed the significance of impact or degree of 
harm as moderate/slight adverse or slight adverse but which 
the local authorities have assessed the harm to significance as 
less than substantial but still harmful. EH also considered that 
harm (but not substantial harm) would be caused to the 
significance of a number of LBs and to the Thrandeston and 
Mellis Conservation Areas. 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
65 
 
4.172 The Decisions Regulations require the decision-maker to have 
regard to the desirability of preserving a listed building or its 
setting and of preserving or enhancing the character or 
appearance of a conservation area. I agree with the applicant 
that this is the relevant requirement in considering an 
application for a DCO. The requirement in the Planning (Listed 
Buildings and Conservation Areas) Act 1990 to have special 
regard to the desirability of preserving a LB or its setting does 
not apply in this case and I do not see any reason why a stricter 
test than is required by the Decisions Regulations should be 
applied to this application. EN-1 provides guidance on the 
consideration of harm to designated assets. There should be a 
presumption in favour of the conservation of designated assets. 
Loss affecting any such asset should require clear and 
convincing justification. No substantial direct harm to or loss of 
any of the designated assets has been identified.  
4.173 EN-1 states that any harmful impact on the significance of a 
designated asset should be weighed against the public benefit 
of development. The greater the harm, the greater the 
justification will need to be. In considering the degree of harm 
in this case I attach weight to the views of MSDC, SCC and EH 
as statutory bodies with responsibilities in respect of historic 
and heritage assets. I also acknowledge the views of the Suffolk 
Preservation Society based on their understanding of the 
historical landscape. All have expressed concern that, in some 
degree, the applicant has understated the degree of harm to 
the significance of designated assets. I note that concerns 
expressed about the impact of a visible plume should be 
discounted given the assurances that with the high temperature 
of the exhaust gases there should be no such plume from an 
SCGT plant. 
4.174  The principal locations of concern, all of which I have visited, 
are: 
(a) The setting of the LBs in Eye and the Eye Conservation 
Area. Within the town the generation plant would only be 
visible from Eye Castle. The stacks would be a prominent 
feature but, in my opinion, the Castle takes its significance 
as much from its position in the town as from its view into 
the surrounding area. Views towards Eye from the higher 
ground to the South would be affected with the 
development visible as an addition to the existing 
industrialised background. I consider that to have a 
relatively small impact on the wider setting of the LBs and 
the Conservation Area and therefore on significance. 
Mitigation through the design of the generation plant and its 
stacks would be important in reducing the impact on 
setting. 
(b) The setting of LBs in Yaxley, Mellis and Thrandeston and the 
Mellis and Thrandeston Conservation Areas. The significance 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
66 
 
of these LBs and Conservation Areas in their village settings 
would be affected by the ECC and, to a lesser extent by the 
generation plant. Existing trees and hedgerows would 
provide some screening, even in winter, but the ECC would 
result in the introduction of an industrial development into a 
largely rural landscape which surrounds the Conservation 
Areas and provides the setting for the LBs in the vicinity. 
The stacks of the generation plant would be visible from 
some locations as an addition to the existing vertical 
features of the wind turbines and the chicken litter plant. I 
consider that the impact is likely to be greatest on the Mellis 
Conservation Area where the common land is closest to the 
ECC and where the existing hedgerow is thin. The setting of 
the LB at Goswald Hall, which is close to the ECC would also 
be significantly changed. There would be a lesser impact on 
other LBs and Thrandeston Conservation Area where there 
is more screening from existing trees and hedgerows. 
Mitigation through landscaping would provide some 
reduction in harm (although I note concerns that some of 
the landscaping proposals could themselves have a harmful 
effect). 
(c) 
Other LBs and Conservation Areas further from the 
development site. These assets may have some views of the 
ECC or the generation plant but these would be distant and 
would not constitute prominent features. In my view there 
should not be any harmful impact on setting or significance 
for these more distant assets. 
4.175 The degree of harm to the significance of designated assets is 
for the most part small but in some cases could be moderate or 
in one case significant. There is scope for impact to be reduced 
by good design and by landscaping measures. This may still 
leave some degree of harm which would need to be taken into 
account in balancing the overall benefits and adverse effects of 
the development. 
Heritage assets demonstrably of equivalent significance 
4.176 EN-1 recognises the existence of heritage assets with 
archaeological interest that are not currently designated as SMs 
but which are demonstrably of equivalent significance. The 
absence of designation for such assets does not indicate lower 
significance. If such assets may be affected by a development 
then they should be considered subject to the same policy 
considerations as designated heritage assets. The Decisions 
Regulations require the decision-maker to have regard to the 
desirability of preserving a scheduled monument or its setting. 
4.177 There has been considerable discussion about the status to be 
accorded to the field system HA10. No clear definition has been 
provided for the extent of HA10 but I agree with the local 
authorities' suggestion (see paragraph 4.150) that this should 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
67 
 
be taken as the area between Judas Lane and Leys Lane 
centred on the site of the ECC. But I also note that this forms 
part of a wider field system as identified by Professor 
Williamson. It has been argued that the field system HA10 
which would be affected by the development of the ECC is an 
asset of at least regional significance, some have argued of 
potentially national significance. In the applicant's view HA10 is 
only of regional significance. EH commented that consideration 
of the significance of the field system boundaries and the 
impact of the development on them was primarily a matter for 
SCC's Archaeology Service to whom EH would defer on these 
matters. EH did however note that the field boundaries were 
unusual survivals of considerable significance. 
4.178 The assessments of the field system submitted by academic 
experts (taking Dr Chadwick's reassessment as his final word on 
the subject) were all in favour of regarding this as at least of 
regional and potentially of national significance. Mr Bonner, for 
the applicant, argued that the field system did not meet the 
criteria set out by EH for designation. His views were strongly 
contested by the EAPWG and by MSDC and SCC on the grounds 
that his analysis was unsubstantiated in many respects, partial 
and therefore far from compelling. 
4.179 The weight of expert opinion that has accumulated during the 
Examination is in favour of finding that field system HA10 met 
the EN-1standard of being demonstrably of equivalent 
significance to a designated SM. To be fully satisfied on that 
point I would need to have an opinion to that effect from EH, 
the body responsible for designation of SMs. EH has not 
provided such an opinion but has stated that the field 
boundaries are of considerable significance. Given the evidence 
submitted, I am satisfied that there is a reasonable possibility 
that the 'demonstrably of equivalent significance' test could be 
met if subject to a full assessment. Where the proposed 
development would cause substantial direct and irreversible 
harm to the field system then, in my view, it would be 
appropriate to err on the side of caution and to proceed as if the 
test had been met. This would mean that there should be a 
presumption in favour of conservation of the field system with 
any harmful effect requiring clear and convincing justification. 
4.180 It is agreed by the applicant, MSDC and SCC that the 
magnitude of the direct impact of the development on the field 
system as set out in the ES (the AIS variant) is substantial 
adverse and would be permanent. It is also agreed that the 
impact would be substantially reduced if the GIS variant were 
adopted. There is disagreement on the exact number of metres 
of boundary that would be affected by the AIS variant - a range 
of 277 - 570 m - but agreement that the GIS variant would only 
affect 25 m. The GIS variant would significantly reduce the 
direct harm to HA10. In the view of MSDC and SCC this would 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
68 
 
reduce the harm from substantial to a moderate adverse 
significant effect.  
4.181 Both options would change the setting within which HA10 sits 
and affect its significance. The AIS variant would have a strong 
impact because it would be set across the pattern of the 
existing boundaries. The GIS variant would fit within the 
existing boundaries and have a lesser impact. Landscaping may 
offset the visual impact although it would take time to mature 
and, in the case of the AIS variant, could obscure the existing 
boundaries. 
4.182 The EAPWG has drawn attention to the provision in EN-1that 
consent should be refused unless it can be demonstrated that 
the substantial harm to or loss of significance is necessary in 
order to deliver the substantial public benefits that outweigh 
that loss or harm. It was argued that the applicant must show 
that harm is unavoidable and that in order to do so it must 
provide an assessment of alternatives which took account of 
environmental effects, including the effect on heritage assets. 
That required a more rigorous assessment of alternatives than 
had been provided by the applicant and no attempt had been 
made to identify alternatives that would avoid or reduce effects 
on the environment, particularly on heritage assets. 
4.183 The applicant's consideration of alternatives has been discussed 
above at paragraphs 4.23 to 4.36. The process of site selection, 
including a high level environmental impact assessment, was 
outlined. Alternative technologies, locations and layouts were 
considered before putting in the application for the chosen site. 
In my view the information provided meets the requirements 
for consideration of alternatives as set out in EN-1 and the EIA 
Regulations.  
4.184 I do not accept the EAPWG assertion that the requirement for a 
'rigorous assessment' of alternatives referred to in the Forge 
Field case is relevant in the context of PA 2008, nor that in the 
absence of such an assessment showing that harm to heritage 
assets is unavoidable it would be unsafe to grant consent. It is 
not a requirement that a site is selected on the basis that each 
potential adverse impact is minimised. Such an approach would 
make site selection almost impossible and not meet the 
proportionality test in EN-1. Consideration of alternatives is 
always likely to involve a trade-off between greater or lesser 
impacts from different aspects of a project. The harm from 
different aspects of any alternative chosen then has to be 
balanced against the wider public benefits. 
4.185 My view on the impact of the proposed development on the field 
system HA10 it is that : 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
69 
 
(a) The field system HA10 may be of equivalent significance to 
a designated SM. This has not been conclusively 
demonstrated but should be assumed to be the case where 
substantial irreversible damage to an asset could occur. 
(b) The AIS variant (in both its original and refined versions) 
would cause substantial and irreversible damage to HA10. 
The GIS variant would cause only a small amount of 
irreversible damage. 
(c) 
Both options would have an adverse effect on the setting of 
HA10 but this would be reduced with the GIS variant. 
(d) Adequate consideration has been given to alternatives to 
the development, both in terms of site selection and 
consideration of options within the selected site. This 
includes the alternative of the GIS substation.  
4.186 I conclude that substantial weight should be given to the harm 
arising from the AIS variant and that such harm should only be 
allowed in exceptional circumstances but that the less than 
substantial harm resulting from the GIS option may make it 
more acceptable in planning terms. I will take this assessment 
into account in my consideration of all the benefits and adverse 
effects of the proposed development. 
Non-designated assets 
4.187 EN-1requires me also to consider the impact of the 
development on non-designated heritage assets. Over 40 
undesignated assets, including HA10 discussed above, have 
been identified in the vicinity. These include the Roman Road 
(HA41) which would be crossed by the ECC access road, 
medieval field boundaries on the Airfield (HA31) and the Airfield 
itself where the generation plant would be located (HA32). In 
addition there are a number of medieval heritage assets within 
the Inner Study Area. Large Green at Mellis (HA01), Little and 
Great Green at Thrandeston (HA04, HA20) fall within their local 
Conservation Areas. 
4.188 Although the proposed development, particularly the generation 
plant sited on the Airfield, would cause permanent harm to 
some of these assets it has not been suggested that, apart from 
HA10, these undesignated assets are of such heritage 
significance that they should be given particular consideration. 
4.189 The case has been strongly argued that HA10 is of heritage 
significance at regional or higher level and therefore, even if the 
Secretary of State did not agree with my recommendation at 
paragraph 4.179 that it should be treated as if it had been 
classified as being of demonstrably equivalent significance to a 
designated SM, it merits consideration in taking a decision on 
this application.  
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
70 
 
4.190 In that case the same considerations as set out at paragraph 
4.185 would apply, namely that: 
(a) The AIS variant (in both its original and refined versions) 
would cause substantial and irreversible damage to HA10. 
The GIS variant would cause only a small amount of 
irreversible damage. 
(b) Both options would have an adverse effect on the setting of 
HA10 but this would be reduced with the GIS variant. 
4.191 The presumption in favour of conservation does not apply in the 
same way to non-designated assets but the reduction in 
adverse effect from the GIS variant should still be a 
consideration in the final evaluation of the benefits and adverse 
effects of the development. 
TRAFFIC AND TRANSPORT 
4.192 The principal impact of the development on traffic and transport 
would occur during the construction phase of the project. 
Access to the site of the generation plant and the AGI would be 
from Castleton Way where the existing access point would be 
remodelled. Access to the ECC would be from a new T-junction 
on the A140. This would cross the stopped up Old Norwich Road 
which provides local access to a fishing lake and allotments and 
continue on a new single track road with passing places across 
agricultural land. This access road would also cross the PRoW 
along Leys Lane.  
4.193 Traffic analysis was carried out for the construction and 
operational phases of the development with consideration of 
traffic associated with workers on-site, HGV movements and 
abnormal loads. Six junctions on the A140 close to the proposed 
development (including the new access point for the ECC) were 
analysed. These are shown on Insert 12.1 in the ES. One of 
these, the junction with the B1077, already operates at over 
capacity in peak periods and construction traffic would result in 
a small addition to delays at this junction. The other junctions 
operate below full capacity and the additional traffic was 
expected to have only a minor effect on traffic flows.  
4.194 A Construction Traffic Management Plan (CTMP) was included 
with the application (APP-032). The routing of HGVs would be 
constrained to the A140 in order to minimise any potential 
disruption in Eye or Yaxley. Routes for abnormal loads would be 
constrained to suitable major roads, such as the A14 and A140, 
to enable the transportation of abnormal loads from the 
destination port to the Project Site. Based on the gravity model 
used to identify the likely origin and destinations of staff, it was 
anticipated that there would be a limited number of construction 
staff travelling through Eye.  
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
71 
 
Views of interested parties 
4.195 In their joint LIR, MSDC and SCC identified the impact of 
construction traffic on the A140 as a major local issue (REP-
051). In particular there was concern that traffic conditions on 
the road would deteriorate as traffic volume increased, making 
access to the A140 at its various junctions more difficult. 
Ultimately this could have implications for road safety. PRoWs 
on the Airfield would be affected during construction. Users of 
PRoWs on both sides of the A140 would be affected in the 
operational phase through changes in the surrounding 
environment (principally in relation to visual amenity). The 
development, which spans the A140, offers an opportunity to 
improve PRoWs on both east and west of the A140 and to 
enhance existing links between the Airfield and Eye. 
4.196 Concern was also expressed that by assuming that HGV 
movements would be spread equally across the day, the 
applicant had not considered the worst case scenario. The 
applicant subsequently carried out a sensitivity test with all HGV 
traffic arriving during peak periods. It concluded that although 
in this scenario there could be an increase in delays at some 
junctions this did not alter the conclusion in the ES that the 
impact on the road network would not be significant (REP-055).  
4.197 SCC as the highway authority set out a number of concerns 
about the detailed design of the Castleton Way and new A140 
access points. SCC discussed these with the applicant and 
revisions were made to the plans. These included agreement 
that: 
(a) The A140 access which was initially proposed as a 
permanent junction should be closed after the completion of 
construction; 
(b) Access to the fishing lake and allotments along Old Norwich 
Road should be maintained unhindered by gates; 
(c) 
Visibility splays both on Castleton Way and the A140 should 
be improved; 
(d) The PRoW along Leys Lane should be kept open during the 
construction period; 
(e) Banksmen would be used to ensure safety of users of Old 
Norwich Road and Leys Lane during construction. 
4.198 Other IPs expressed concerns about the effect of construction 
traffic on local roads and the A140 (RR-001, -007, -014, -015, -
022, -029, -033, -037, -038, -041, -043, -044, -049, -051, -
055, -059, -062, -064, -066, -070, -072, -074, -088, -090, -
091, -092, -096). There was particular concern about adding to 
the level of traffic on the A140 which was already seen as 
dangerous. Concerns were also expressed by horse riders about 
possible disruption of the ride along Leys Lane with danger both 
to horses and their riders. 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
72 
 
4.199 A Traffic and Transport Position Statement was submitted with 
the SoCG with MSDC and SCC of 24 October 2014 (REP-073, 
Annex 2) and revisions to the Interim CTMP and associated 
access drawings were submitted with revised SoCGs on 19 
December 2014 and 13 January 2015 (REP-097, -106). On the 
basis of this material SCC agreed that safe access to the 
generation plant could be achieved through the proposals for 
the Castleton Way junction and that the proposed new A140 
junction arrangements were of a safe, achievable design.  
4.200 On the basis of the Transport Assessment in the ES and the 
sensitivity test carried out on HGV arrivals during peak hours, 
the applicant agreed: 
(a) to provide proportionate measures to improve the 
A140/B1077 junction to reduce the risk of collision; 
(b) to monitor HGV construction traffic as part of the CTMP; 
(c) 
to undertake a traffic survey of construction workers and 
discuss findings and any appropriate course of action  with 
SCC; 
(d) to review routing of HGV traffic accessing the generation 
plant site from the south to prevent queuing on the turn 
from the A140 into Castleton Way; and 
(e) through the CTMP to discourage and monitor use of the 
B1077 by construction workers and agree any mitigation 
measures with SCC. 
4.201 In the light of these changes SCC agreed to the findings of the 
Transport Assessment. A provision for a sum of £86,000 to be 
paid to SCC for the sole purpose of alleviating the impact of the 
development at the B1077/A140 junction is written into the 
S106 agreement signed on 13 January 2013 (APP-120). A 
further provision of £44,451 (in two tranches) is written into the 
S106 agreement for improving connectivity between the 
development, Eye, the Airfield and Yaxley. 
4.202 The concerns of horse riders were raised in written 
representations, at the OFH and the first ISH (RR-037, -049, -
059, -074, REP-014, HR-023, HR-036). The CTMP was amended 
to make it clear that banksmen would be used to control the 
flow of traffic along the access road to the ECC to ensure that 
all construction vehicles stop and give priority to the users of 
Leys Lane throughout the construction period. This is to ensure 
the safety of pedestrians, equestrians and other road users. The 
construction of the access road and the laying of the cable 
where it crosses Leys Lane would be carried out without the 
need to close the Lane completely. Partial closure of one side 
and then the other would be used to allow single file traffic to 
operate while a duct for the cable was installed. The updated 
CEMP (REP-097) also contains a section on equestrian 
management with examples of mitigation measures to address 
the safety of horse and riders. These mitigation measures would 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
73 
 
be agreed with SCC, MSDC and a community liaison group as 
part of the final CEMP.  
Conclusions on Traffic and Transport 
4.203 Although the traffic on the A140 is already a cause of concern to 
local residents the traffic analysis carried out as part of the ES 
does not show a significant increase resulting from the proposed 
development. Financial contributions would be made through 
the S106 Agreement for improvements to the B1077/A140 
junction which is already at full capacity at peak times and to 
improve connectivity between the Airfield, Eye and Yaxley. The 
design of the two junctions giving access to the construction 
areas have been modified to meet the concerns of the highway 
authority and the junction on the A140 would be removed on 
completion of construction of the ECC. Mitigation measures 
agreed with the highway authority would be included in the 
CTMP. In response to concerns expressed by IPs access to the 
local fishing lake and allotments would be maintained during the 
construction period. Particular attention would be paid in the 
CTMP and CEMP to the safety of horse riders and other users of 
the Leys Lane PRoW. 
4.204 Taking into account the agreed changes to the design of 
junctions, the proposed mitigation measures in the CTMP and 
CEMP to limit the impact of traffic on local roads and the PRoW 
which would require approval by the relevant planning authority 
as a requirement in the DCO, and the financial contribution 
secured in the S106 agreement for off-site junction 
improvement, I am satisfied that traffic and transport 
associated with the development can be accommodated safely 
and without any significant detriment to the local community. 
SOCIO-ECONOMIC IMPACTS  
Views of the applicant 
4.205 The ES reviewed the potential impact of the development on the 
local community looking in particular at effects in the local 
labour market, impact on tourism and recreation and on 
community infrastructure. The effect on agriculture was not 
considered to be significant.  
4.206 During the construction period of 21 months the number of 
construction workers onsite would range from 25 to 127. The 
construction work is anticipated to contribute £8.8 m gross 
value added (GVA) to the national economy. This was 
considered in the ES to have a slight effect on local employment 
and amount to a minor beneficial impact. There is sufficient 
temporary accommodation in the area to meet the needs of 
temporary workers. Similar effects could be expected during the 
decommissioning phase. There would be 15 full time equivalent 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
74 
 
posts at the generation plant during the operational phase. This 
phase would contribute £0.6 m GVA a year to the local 
economy. Again it was considered that this would have a minor 
beneficial impact. The development would provide an 
opportunity to improve the skills of a small section of the local 
workforce helping to reduce unemployment and improve 
productivity. 
4.207 A survey of local tourism related businesses indicated that a 
majority considered that the proposed development would have 
no impact on their trading performance. The overall assessment 
indicated no significant impact on tourism or recreation either 
during the construction or operational phases. 
4.208 The community infrastructure facilities within a 5 km radius 
include schools, healthcare facilities, transport routes and both 
indoor and outdoor recreational facilities. The significance of the 
impact on any of these was considered to be slight. 
Views of interested parties 
4.209 MSDC and SCC in their LIR agreed that the development had 
the potential to benefit the local economy through provision of 
direct employment and provision of indirect services but sought 
a more detailed analysis of the impact of the take up of tourist 
accommodation by construction workers. They sought to 
enhance the prospects for local people gaining employment and 
local businesses providing services through provisions in the 
S106 agreement. 
4.210 MSDC and SCC agreed a socio-economics position statement 
with the applicant (REP-073). This suggested that 66% of 
construction jobs were relatively unspecialised and could be 
filled by the local workforce. Other jobs might need to be 
sourced from outside the area. It was estimated that a 
maximum of 47% of the construction workforce would need to 
be provided with local accommodation. There was sufficient 
capacity in the area to meet this requirement. 
4.211 The applicant agreed to work with SCC to develop an education 
programme focusing on the role of the plant. This would include 
information and supporting educational material, a programme 
of visits to local schools and site visits. 
4.212 The final S106 agreement contains provision for an Education 
and Development Scheme to be agreed with MSDC and SCC to 
provide training opportunities, apprenticeships or other 
programmes for local residents to obtain knowledge, skills, 
experience, confidence and the opportunity to gain employment 
in the construction of the development and a programme of 
education about the development. It also provides for a Local 
Services Scheme with measures to assist businesses based in 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
75 
 
the vicinity to benefit directly from the opportunities arising 
from the development. 
4.213 A number of IPs expressed concern that were was no clear 
evidence of economic benefit to the local economy from the 
development and that there could be an adverse impact of the 
development on tourism in the area. This was argued both in 
general terms and by reference to specific local businesses. The 
local employment generated by the development would be 
small and would not offset losses in other businesses. There 
was also concern about the loss of agricultural land and the 
possibility that the use of the Airfield site for this development 
would pre-empt other activities which might create more 
employment and deter the development of housing nearby. 
(RR-001, -008, -023, -033, -037, -044, -052, -055, -062, -070, 
-072, -078, -081, -088; REP-012, -014, -017, -031, -036) 
Conclusions on socio-economic impacts  
4.214 I acknowledge the concerns about local employment raised by 
IPs but I am satisfied on the basis of the evidence in the ES and 
the additional material provided in the SoCGs with MSDC and 
SCC that the impact on the local economy from direct and 
indirect employment and contribution to GVA during the 
construction and operational phase of the development is likely 
to be small but positive. It is unlikely that there would be any 
significant adverse effect on tourism.  
HEALTH  
4.215 An electrical infrastructure electro-magnetic field (EMF) 
assessment was carried out and submitted as part of the 
application (APP-034). This considered EMF strengths resulting 
from the connection from the existing 400 kV OHL to the 
proposed sealing end compound, the 400kV cable from the 
sealing end compound to the substation and the cable from the 
generation plant to the substation. There are no statutory 
regulations limiting exposure to EMFs but the Government has 
endorsed the adoption of the International Commission on Non-
Ionizing Radiation Protection (ICNIRP) guidelines which set 
conservative exposure levels for the general public. 
4.216 The exposure from the connection from the existing OHL to the 
sealing end compound would be the same as exposure from the 
existing OHL which is below the ICNIRP recommended level. 
The exposure from the cable connection, measured as magnetic 
field at 1 m above ground level, would also be below the ICNIRP 
recommended level. 
4.217 The assessment concluded that the maximum EMF strengths 
would be within nationally and internationally accepted 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
76 
 
guidelines and that changes due to the establishment of the 
ECC and the cable connection would constitute a 'minor' effect. 
4.218 Effects on health from effects on air and water quality, noise, 
geology and contamination and waste were also considered in 
the ES. No significant adverse effects on public health were 
identified. 
4.219 Concerns were expressed by a number of IPs in general terms 
about possible adverse effects on health from the development. 
A number of specific concerns were raised about the health 
effects of EMFs. Concern was also expressed that EMFs from the 
cable under Leys Lane could affect the behaviour of horses with 
risk both to horse and rider. (RR-002, -008, -023, -028, -032, -
059, -080, -081; REP-013) 
4.220 Responding to these concerns the applicant did not anticipate 
any EMF phenomena related to the development would be 
capable of harming horses and their riders using the PRoW 
network. The cable design would restrict any electromagnetic 
fields to within the cable cross section. Cables are generally 
buried at depths of 1m or more and under normal operation no 
electrical current is carried outside of the conductors making up 
the electricity network. Under fault conditions some current may 
flow in the earth but UK standards are such that this would 
have no impact on the public. (REP-052) 
4.221 In response to my second round of questions NGET provided 
additional information on the possible effects of rise of earth 
potential (RoEP) on livestock (REP-079). Although the 
information available for livestock is less detailed than for 
humans the threat of RoEP to livestock is of very low 
probability. For EMFs NGET considered that the exposure 
guidelines in place for humans also provide appropriate 
protection to other mammalian species including horses. 
4.222 Public Health England PHE confirmed that the development as 
proposed did not appear to pose any significant risk to public 
health (RR-099). 
Conclusions on health 
4.223 I conclude that there should be no adverse effect on health 
from emissions from the generation plant or from EMFs 
associated with the cable and substation.  
S106 AGREEMENT 
4.224 A S106 agreement was negotiated during the Examination. The 
final agreement was signed on 13 January 2015 and is between 
the applicant, MSDC, SCC and Elizabeth Anne Moore and Harry 
Charles Moore, the landowners of the site for the generation 
plant. 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
77 
 
4.225 The agreement provides for payments to be made by the 
applicant for: 
(a) The Education and Employment Scheme; 
(b) The Local Services Scheme; 
(c) 
Connectivity; 
(d) Landscaping and visual amenity; 
(e) Traffic and Transport; 
(f) 
Skylarks; and 
(g) Discharge of requirements. 
4.226 The details of work to be carried out with the funds made 
available have been discussed in the relevant sections above. 
They principally relate to work outside of the application site 
which cannot be covered by requirements in the DCO. They also 
include payments to MSDC for regular inspection of on-site 
landscaping over a period of ten years and to MSDC and SCC to 
cover fees relating to the discharge of requirements in the DCO. 
I am satisfied that they provide additional mitigation for the 
effects of the proposed development that they are necessary to 
make the development acceptable in planning terms, directly 
related to the development and fairly and reasonably related in 
scale and kind to the development.  
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
78 
 
5 
FINDINGS AND CONCLUSIONS IN RELATION TO HABITATS 
REGULATIONS  
5.1 
As noted earlier at paragraph 1.13 the proposed development 
could have a significant effect on a number of European sites as 
defined in Regulation 3 of the Conservation of Habitats and 
Species Regulations 2010 (the Habitats Regulations 2010) and 
therefore an appropriate assessment of the implications for any 
European sites might need to be carried out by the Secretary of 
State. 
5.2 
The proposed project is not connected with or necessary to the 
management for conservation of a European site. 
5.3 
The applicant submitted screening matrices with their DCO 
application as part of a No Significant Effects Report (NSER) 
(APP-023). These matrices presented the applicant’s evidence 
on whether the project, alone or in-combination with other 
projects, potentially affects a European site, and whether it is 
likely to have a significant impact on key features of each 
European site. The matrices presented have been reviewed with 
the support of the Environmental Services Team of the Planning 
Inspectorate. 
5.4 
The NSER identified two European sites as being potentially 
affected by the proposed development.15  These sites were 
agreed with NE (RR-075) and are at least 7.3 km from the 
project site. The European sites identified are: 
(a) Redgrave and South Lopham Fens Ramsar Site; and  
(b) Waveney and Little Ouse Valley Fens SAC.  
5.5 
The NSER screened these sites for likely significant effects. The 
possible effects considered were: 
(a) Habitat loss of features; 
(b) Fragmentation: the generation plant, gas and electrical 
connections could result in habitat fragmentation and/or 
species population fragmentation; 
(c) 
Changes in air quality from atmospheric pollution associated 
with construction and operation of the project could result in 
changing the pH of the habitats which are primarily alkaline; 
(d) Changes in hydrology that could affect the Ramsar Site or 
SAC; and 
(e) Direct and indirect disturbance including noise and vibration 
effects during construction. 
15 The HRA followed the methodology set out in PINS Advice Note 10: Habitat Regulations Assessment 
relevant to nationally significant infrastructure projects. 
http://infrastructure.planningportal.gov.uk/wp-content/uploads/2013/09/Advice-note-10-HRA.pdf 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
79 
                                       
 
 
5.6 
Stage 1 screening matrices were provided. These considered 
direct and in-combination impacts and showed no significant 
effects at either of the locations. NE was satisfied that the NSER 
demonstrated beyond reasonable scientific doubt that there 
would be no significant effect on the integrity of these two 
European sites. The EA also indicated that it had reviewed the 
NSER on a light touch basis and took the view that the 
important ecological points had been identified and addressed 
with respect to on-site and local impacts (RR-108).  
The Report on the Implications for European Sites 
5.7 
In order to assist the Secretary of State in carrying out his 
responsibility as Competent Authority I have, with the support 
of the Planning Inspectorate's Environmental Services Team, 
prepared a RIES (REP-095). The purpose of the RIES (and any 
consultation responses received in relation to it) is to compile, 
document and signpost information provided within the DCO 
application and information submitted throughout the 
Examination by both the applicant and interested parties. It is 
issued to ensure that interested parties including the statutory 
nature conservation bodies are consulted formally on habitats 
regulations matters. This process may be relied on by the 
Secretary of State for the purposes of Regulation 61(3) of the 
Habitats Regulations.  
5.8 
The RIES was published on 15 December 2014 and takes into 
account the original NSER, comments were invited. The only 
comment received was from the EA which repeated the views in 
its original representation as noted above. 
5.9 
Mitigation and monitoring measures directly relevant to the 
scope of potential effects on European sites include: 
(a) Implementation of a CEMP; 
(b) Adherence to all relevant Environmental Permits, Best 
Practice Guidance/Regulations, British Standards, and 
monitoring in respect of air quality, noise and vibration, and 
water resources; 
(c) 
Implementation of industry standard methods and 
procedures to ensure air quality impacts are minimised 
throughout all phases of the project; 
(d) Use of Dry Low NOx burners (or better) during operation to 
ensure limitation of NOx emissions in accordance with the 
Industrial Emissions Directive (IED)and the BAT associated 
emissions levels for the firing of natural gas in GTs; 
(e) Choice of SCGT technology which does not require a large 
amount of water for its operation to minimise impacts on 
water resources; 
(f) 
Use of industry best practices in design and construction of 
water course crossings (e.g. HDD) to reduce interactions 
with water courses; 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
80 
 
(g) Implementation of a Sustainable Urban Drainage System 
(SUDS); and 
(h) Implementation of a range of measures within the design to 
minimise any impacts from noise and vibration such as 
housing GTs and major compressors in individual acoustic 
enclosures, fitting of high performance silencers on turbine 
filter and ventilation apertures, installation of high 
performance silencers in the outlet ducts between the GTs, 
and housing of unit transformers and generator 
transformers in appropriate enclosures. 
5.10 
These measures would be secured either through the EP or 
through requirements in the DCO. Taking mitigation measures 
into account the stage 1 screening matrices did not identify any 
significant effects and it was not necessary to consider the 
effects on the integrity of European sites. 
5.11 
Taking into account the NSER and the evidence presented by 
IPs I accept the applicant's conclusion of no likely significant 
effect on the European sites in question and conclude that it is 
not necessary for the Secretary of State to carry out an 
appropriate assessment. 
 
 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
81 
 
6 
RECOMMENDATION ON THE CASE FOR THE DEVELOPMENT 
Need for the development 
6.1 
As noted at paragraph 3.1the proposed development qualifies 
as an NSIP and consideration of the proposal is subject to the 
guidance in NPS EN-1 and associated NPS EN-2, 4 and 5. EN-1 
states that applications for development consent for energy 
NSIPs should be assessed on the basis that the Government has 
demonstrated that there is a need for those types of 
infrastructure. That guidance carries considerable weight in any 
consideration of whether to grant a DCO.  
6.2 
The development of the capacity market as part of the 
Government's programme of energy market reform has created 
a role for a particular type of flexible generation which the 
proposed development is designed to fulfil. However capacity 
market contracts will be subject to competitive tender with no 
guarantee that contracts will be awarded to any particular 
bidder. In the light of that uncertainty I attach only limited 
additional weight to the proposal on the grounds of its potential 
for flexible operation. 
Emissions 
6.3 
I have considered the analysis of aerial and water emissions 
and noise as set out in the ES and the measures proposed to 
mitigate the impact of any emissions. These include measures 
embedded in the design of the main elements of the 
development, requirements for approval of drainage systems, 
adoption of a CEMP based on the agreed outline, and limits on 
operational noise by the relevant planning authority. These 
measures which are included in Requirements 3, 8, 11 and 17 
of the final draft DCO, (discussed in detail in section 8), should 
ensure that the levels of emissions are kept below the 
thresholds above which significant adverse effects could be 
expected to occur.  
6.4 
Emissions to air and water would be regulated through an EP 
which has not yet been applied for. The EA has agreed that the 
proposed SCGT type of plant should be capable of being 
adequately regulated under the pollution control framework and 
that the cumulative impacts should fall within statutory limits. 
When an application is received the EA would need to make 
further enquiries but the EA was not aware of anything that 
would preclude the grant of an EP for an SCGT. On the basis of 
the evidence before me and without prejudice to any future 
consideration by the EA, I do not have any reason to believe 
that an EP for the generation plant would not be granted.  
6.5 
On this basis I conclude that, subject to the mitigation 
measures identified, there should not be any significant adverse 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
82 
 
effects from emissions to air and water or from noise. For this 
reason, in my view emissions from the plant, including the 
effects of noise are not matters which should carry significant 
weight in the consideration of whether to grant a DCO.  
Biodiversity 
6.6 
Although the proposed development would lead to the loss of 
arable land and some hedgerows, a significant amount of new 
planting is proposed to offset any adverse effect. Requirement 
10 of the final draft DCO contains provisions for the agreement 
of the final Ecological Management Strategy with the relevant 
planning authority in consultation with NE. Requirements 4 and 
5 provide for details of the landscaping to be agreed with the 
relevant planning authority and for the implementation and 
maintenance of the landscaping plan. The S106 agreement 
contains provisions for action outside of the boundary of the 
development to mitigate the impact on skylarks. I am satisfied 
that, subject to these provisions, the proposed new planting 
would be adequate to address any adverse effects on 
biodiversity in the neighbourhood of the development and that 
these are not matters which should carry significant weight in 
the consideration of whether to grant a DCO.  
Landscape and visual impact 
6.7 
The guidance in EN-1 acknowledges that virtually all NSIPs will 
have effects on the landscape and have visual effects for many 
people. The aim in designing a project should be to minimise 
the harm to the landscape and visual effects and provide 
reasonable mitigation. EN-2 states that if the location for a 
fossil fuel generation project is appropriate and it has been 
designed sensitively to minimise harm to landscape and visual 
amenity then the visibility of the generating station should be 
given limited weight. Guidance in EN-5 principally relates to 
OHL development but recognises that substations and sealing 
end compounds can also give rise to landscape and visual 
impacts. 
6.8 
The generation plant would add to the industrialisation of the 
Airfield and would be visible from the nearby town of Eye and 
neighbouring villages but mitigation planting would help to 
provide a screen over the years. The stacks would be visible 
over a much wider area and would be a significant feature on 
the skyline. The choice of SCGT technology allows stack height 
to be kept to a maximum of 30 m and would not result in any 
visible plume. The revised DPS with further consultation and a 
Design Review would allow further mitigation of impact through 
design to be incorporated into any final development. This is 
ensured in the DCO through Requirement 3. In addition Lighting 
Design Principles have been developed and agreed with MSDC 
and SCC and are set out in the outline lighting strategy. 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
83 
 
Requirement 18 provides for the lighting scheme for the 
development to be agreed with the relevant planning authority 
and to be substantially in accordance with the outline lighting 
strategy. In my view this approach to design and lighting for 
the generation plant meets the requirements of EN-1 and EN-2 
to minimise harm to landscape and visual amenity. The gas 
connection and AGI would also have some adverse impact on 
landscape and visual amenity although this would be confined 
to the immediate vicinity of the development.  
6.9 
The development of the ECC with associated cable laying and 
access road would introduce an industrial type of development 
into an agricultural area, albeit an area which is crossed by a 
major overhead power line. The ECC would be visible from 
nearby houses and from a number of small villages surrounding 
the site. It would also be visible from some more distant 
locations. The impact on landscape and visual amenity is 
acknowledged in the ES to be significant. Mitigation planting 
would soften the impact but, for the applicant's preferred AIS 
variant this could take 15 years to develop. The GIS variant 
would provide some further mitigation of the impact by 
providing a design with a much smaller footprint involving only 
a small loss of existing hedgerow and would be aligned with 
existing field boundaries. That would still result in a new 
intrusion into the agricultural landscape but could be designed 
to blend in with the agricultural location and other farm 
buildings nearby. The S106 agreement provides for additional 
offsite planting to provide further mitigation in respect of visual 
impact of either the AIS or the GIS option.  
6.10 
In my view there would be a landscape and visual impact from 
each of the main elements of the proposed development. 
Mitigation by use of good design can reduce but not completely 
offset those impacts. Taking proposed mitigation measures into 
account it would be consistent with the guidance in EN-2 to give 
limited weight to the visual impact of the generation plant but 
the other elements of the development also need to be 
considered. The impact is greatest for the ECC which is in a 
primarily rural location. It would be consistent with the principle 
of minimising harm as set out in EN-1and subject to 
consideration of any additional costs, to prefer the GIS variant 
which would reduce the impact of the ECC on landscape and 
visual amenity compared with the AIS variant. Taking the 
development as a whole I attach some weight to the adverse 
effects on landscape and visual impact of the development in 
consideration of whether to grant a DCO and I consider that 
that weight would be reduced if the GIS variant were to be 
adopted. 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
84 
 
Heritage and Historic Assets 
6.11 
The potential impact of the development on heritage and 
historic assets has been explored in detail during the course of 
the Examination. Following the distinctions set out in EN-1 I 
have considered the possible impact on three categories of 
heritage asset: 
(a) Designated assets; 
(b) Heritage assets with archaeological significance not 
currently designated as SM but which it has been argued by 
some IPs are demonstrably of equivalent significance; 
(c) 
Non-designated assets which are of lower value than 
designated heritage assets. 
Designated assets 
6.12 
The area is rich in designated assets and attention has been 
drawn to their collective value as part of the heritage of the 
area as well as their individual status. 
6.13 
I am satisfied that none of the designated assets would be 
directly affected by the proposed development in the sense that 
no part of an asset would be destroyed. All parties accept that 
there would be a degree of harm to the setting and significance 
of at least some of the designated assets identified in the study 
area. Views have differed on the extent of that harm.  
6.14 
The Decisions Regulations set out matters to which the decision 
maker must have regard when considering the impact on LBs, 
conservation areas and SMs.  EN-1 provides guidance on the 
consideration of harm to designated assets. There should be a 
presumption in favour of the conservation of designated assets. 
Loss affecting any such asset should require clear and 
convincing justification. No substantial harm to or loss of any of 
the designated assets has been identified. EN-1 states that any 
harmful impact on the significance of a designated asset should 
be weighed against the public benefit of development. The 
greater the harm, the greater the justification would need to be.  
6.15 
In considering the degree of harm in this case I attach weight to 
the views of MSDC, SCC and EH as statutory bodies with 
responsibilities in respect of historic and heritage assets. I also 
acknowledge the views of the Suffolk Preservation Society 
based on their understanding of the historical landscape. All 
have expressed concern that, in some degree, the applicant has 
understated the degree of harm to the significance of 
designated assets. 
6.16 
On the basis of the evidence submitted and my site visits it is 
my view the degree of harm to the setting and significance of 
designated assets is for the most part small but in some cases 
could be moderate. This is a matter to which the decisionmaker 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
85 
 
must have regard under the requirements of the Decisions 
Regulations. There is scope for impact to be reduced by good 
design and by landscaping measures which are included in the 
DCO through Requirements 3, 4 and 5. This may still leave a 
degree of harm to which some weight should be given in 
consideration of whether to grant a DCO.  
Heritage assets demonstrably of equivalent significance 
6.17 
EN-1 provides for the existence of heritage assets with 
archaeological interest that are not currently designated as SMs 
but which are demonstrably of equivalent significance. The 
absence of designation for such assets does not indicate lower 
significance. If such assets may be affected by a development 
then they should be considered subject to the same policy 
considerations as designated heritage assets.  
6.18 
There has been considerable discussion about the status to be 
accorded to the field system HA10. In the applicant's view HA10 
is only of regional significance. EH commented that the field 
boundaries were unusual survivals of considerable significance 
but did not offer a view on whether this was of demonstrably 
equivalent significance to a designated SM. The assessments of 
the field system submitted by academic experts were all in 
favour of regarding the field system as being at least of regional 
and potentially of national significance.  
6.19 
Given the evidence submitted, I am satisfied that there is a 
reasonable possibility that the 'demonstrably of equivalent 
significance' test could be met if subject to a full assessment. If 
the proposed development would cause substantial direct and 
irreversible harm to the field system then it would, in my view, 
be appropriate to err on the side of caution and to proceed as if 
the test had been met. This would mean that in considering 
whether to grant a DCO there should be a presumption in 
favour of conservation of the field system with any harmful 
effect requiring clear and convincing justification. 
6.20 
It is agreed by the applicant, MSDC and SCC that the 
magnitude of the direct impact of the development on the field 
system as set out in the ES (the AIS variant) is substantial 
adverse and would be permanent. It is also agreed that the 
impact would be reduced if the GIS variant were adopted. In 
the view of MSDC and SCC this would reduce the harm from 
substantial to a moderate adverse significant effect. In the 
applicant's view the GIS variant would only result in marginally 
reduced environmental impacts. 
6.21 
My view on the impact of the proposed development on this 
category of historic asset is that : 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
86 
 
(a) The field system HA10 may be of equivalent significance to 
a designated SM. This has not been conclusively 
demonstrated but should be assumed to be the case where 
substantial, irreversible damage to an asset could occur. 
(b) The AIS variant (in both its original and refined versions) 
would cause substantial and irreversible damage to HA10. 
The GIS variant would cause only a small amount of 
irreversible damage. 
(c) 
Both options would have an adverse effect on the setting of 
HA10 but this would be reduced with the GIS variant. 
6.22 
In my view considerable weight should be given to the 
substantial adverse direct impact and adverse impact on setting 
of the AIS variant on HA10 in considering whether to grant a 
DCO with a presumption in favour of conservation. Some weight 
should also be attached to the reduced adverse direct and 
indirect impact of the GIS variant.  
Non-designated assets 
6.23 
EN-1requires me also to consider the impact of the 
development on non-designated heritage assets. Over 40 
undesignated assets, including HA10, have been identified in 
the vicinity. Although the proposed development, particularly 
the generation plant sited on the Airfield, would cause 
permanent harm to some of these assets it has not been 
suggested that, apart from HA10, these undesignated assets 
are of such heritage significance that they should be given 
particular consideration. 
6.24 
The case has been strongly argued that HA10 is of heritage 
significance at regional or higher level and therefore, even if the 
Secretary of State did not agree with my recommendation that 
it should be treated as if it had been classified as being of 
demonstrably equivalent significance to a designated SM, it 
merits consideration in taking a decision on this application.  
6.25 
In that case these considerations would apply: 
(a) The AIS variant (in both its original and refined versions) 
would cause substantial and irreversible damage to HA10. 
The GIS variant would cause only a small amount of 
irreversible damage. 
(b) Both options would have an adverse effect on the setting of 
HA10 but this would be reduced with the GIS variant. 
6.26 
The presumption in favour of conservation does not apply in the 
same way to non-designated assets. Nonetheless, in my view 
some weight should be attached to the adverse effects on non-
designated assets in considering whether to grant a DCO and 
the reduction in adverse effect from the GIS variant should be a 
consideration. 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
87 
 
Traffic and transport 
6.27 
Although the traffic on the A140 is already a cause of concern to 
local residents the traffic analysis carried out as part of the ES 
does not show a significant increase resulting from the proposed 
development. A financial contribution would be made through 
the S106 Agreement for improvements to the B1077/A140 
junction which is already at full capacity at peak times and to 
the improvement in connectivity in the area. The design of the 
two junctions giving access to the construction areas has been 
modified to meet the concerns of the highways authority and 
the junction on the A140 would be removed on completion of 
construction of the ECC. This is ensured through Requirement 6 
in the draft DCO. Mitigation measures agreed with the highway 
authority would be included in the CTMP. In response to 
concerns expressed by IPs, access to the local fishing lake and 
allotments would be maintained during the construction period. 
The outline CTMP and CEMP, which would form the basis for the 
final Plans to be prepared and approved in accordance with 
Requirements 11and 13, include provisions relating to the 
safety of horse riders and other users of the Leys Lane PRoW. 
6.28 
Taking into account the agreed changes to the design of 
junctions, the proposed mitigation measures in the CTMP and 
CEMP to limit the impact of traffic on local roads and the PRoW 
which would require approval by the relevant planning authority 
under Requirements 11 and 13 in the DCO and the financial 
contribution secured in the S106 agreement for off-site junction 
improvement and improvements in connectivity, I am satisfied 
that traffic and transport associated with the development can 
be accommodated safely and without any significant detriment 
to the local community. I do not consider that effects of the 
development on traffic and transport are matters which should 
carry significant weight in consideration of whether to grant a 
DCO. 
Socio-economic impacts including health 
6.29 
There should be a small positive impact on the local and 
national economy to which some weight should be given in 
considering whether to grant a DCO. No adverse effects on 
health have been identified.  
National Grid's duties 
6.30 
NGET has drawn attention to its duty under section 9 of the 
Electricity Act to bring forward efficient, co-ordinated and 
economical proposals in terms of network design and to have 
regard to amenity under Section 38 and Schedule 9 of the 
Electricity Act (see paragraphs 4.13 and 4.14 above). The 
section 9 duty is referred to at 2.3.5 in EN-5 as a matter to be 
taken into account by the decision maker. 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
88 
 
6.31 
NGET has expressed its preference for the AIS variant and 
suggested that prescribing a GIS design would prevent NGET 
from performing its duty to balance amenity considerations 
against its other obligations to be economic and efficient. The 
implication of NGET's approach, which was supported by the 
applicant, is that since NGET would be responsible for the 
design and construction of the ECC, the detail of which would be 
decided at a later date, the choice between the AIS and GIS 
options should be left to NGET subject to its Electricity Act 
duties. The Rochdale envelope approach adopted in the 
application ensured that the worst case has been subject to 
assessment in the ES and that sets the constraint within which 
NGET would operate. 
6.32 
I have considered NGET's arguments but I do not accept the 
analysis. As set out above, there are significant differences in 
planning terms between the impacts of the AIS and GIS 
options. These impacts are important and relevant 
considerations in making a recommendation on whether to 
grant a DCO and in considering the details of the draft DCO. 
They concern issues which are the subject of the Decisions 
Regulations and of guidance in EN-1 on the assessment of 
generic impacts, in particular section 5.8 on the Historic 
Environment. They are also matters identified as being of 
overriding concern in the LIR. These are all matters to which the 
Secretary of State must have regard in making his decision. 
6.33 
Where it is possible for me to make a recommendation and the 
Secretary of State to take a decision on planning matters as 
part of the application such a decision should not be deferred 
and, in effect, delegated to a third party. Coming to a view on 
the choice between the AIS and GIS options would not, in my 
view, override NGET's Electricity Act duties. NGET has 
acknowledged that it can only carry out the design and 
construction of the ECC in line with the terms of the DCO. The 
DCO would set the parameters within which NGET must then 
exercise its duties. 
Conclusions on the case for the development 
6.34 
I have considered the evidence submitted with the application 
as updated during the course of the Examination, 
representations from statutory bodies and other IPs including 
the joint LIR from the two local authorities and other evidence 
accepted into the examination. I have taken into account the 
on-site mitigation measures that have been agreed during the 
course of the Examination and which are secured through the 
DCO. I also attach weight to the additional mitigation of adverse 
effects which would be provided through off-site measures 
secured in the S106 agreement. I have taken into account the 
no significant effects findings in the RIES. I consider that this 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
89 
 
material taken together provides an adequate basis on which to 
make a recommendation on the application for a DCO. 
6.35 
As summarised above I consider that, taking into account 
mitigation measures agreed, no significant weight needs to be 
attached to the impact of the development on : 
(a) Emissions from the development including emissions to air, 
water and noise; 
(b) Biodiversity;  
(c) 
Traffic and transport; and 
(d) Health 
6.36 
I consider that there would be positive impacts from the 
development from its contribution to the need for new fossil fuel 
generation capacity identified in EN-1 and to its potential role in 
the newly introduced capacity market. EN-1 also states that the 
decision maker should start with a presumption in favour of 
granting consent for energy NSIPs. This applies unless any 
more specific and relevant policies set out in the relevant NPSs 
clearly indicate that consent should be refused. I have also 
identified a small positive contribution to the local and national 
economy from the development. 
6.37 
On the other side of the balance I have identified a negative 
impact from the project in terms of its impact on: 
(a) Landscape and visual impact. This would be partly but not 
totally offset by mitigation measures and would be smaller if 
the GIS variant was adopted. 
(b) Historic and heritage assets. There would some adverse 
impact on the setting of designated heritage assets even 
after mitigation measures. If the AIS variant was adopted 
there would be a substantial direct and irreversible adverse 
effect on the field system HA 10 which in my view may be of 
equivalent significance to a designated SM. If the GIS 
variant was adopted there would still be an adverse effect 
but it would be less than substantial. 
6.38 
EN-1 is clear that there should be a presumption in favour of 
conservation of designated assets or assets with archaeological 
interest that are not currently designated as SM but are 
demonstrably of equivalent significance. The impacts on LBs, 
conservation areas and SMs are matters to which the decision-
maker must have regard under the requirements of the 
Decisions Regulations. EN-1 sets out that loss affecting any 
designated heritage asset should require clear and convincing 
justification. Substantial harm to or loss of designated assets of 
the highest significance including SMs should be wholly 
exceptional. The same consideration applies to an asset that 
may be of equivalent significance to a designated SM. In my 
view that indicates that significant weight should be given to the 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
90 
 
damage to the field system from the AIS variant and it would 
need to be shown why wholly exceptional reasons apply in 
granting a DCO. If the GIS variant was adopted weight should 
still be given to the harm but this would be at a lower level of 
significance. Under either option some weight should be 
attached to the adverse impact on the setting of the field 
systems. 
6.39 
Even if the field system was not considered to be of equivalent 
significance to a SM, weight should still be given to the harm 
that would be caused to non-designated heritage assets and to 
the fact that this harm would be less if the GIS variant was 
adopted. 
6.40 
EN-1 does not provide a yardstick for comparing degrees of 
benefit and harm from a development. Drawing on the guidance 
in EN-1 on the assessment of individual aspects of the 
development I consider that a high weighting should be given 
both to the established need for the development and to the 
substantial harm that would occur, with the AIS variant, to an 
asset that should be considered to be of equivalent significance 
to a SM. Taking these two factors on their own there is a fine 
balance between the benefits and the adverse impacts of the 
development. I attach particular importance to the fact that the 
damage to the field system would be permanent. In addition I 
note that the benefit to be obtained from allowing the 
development is not contingent on adopting the AIS variant. It 
can equally be obtained by adopting the GIS variant which has 
a lesser impact both in respect of landscape and visual impact 
and historic and heritage assets. There would be an additional 
cost of the GIS option, estimated to be £4m, which would be 
passed on to electricity customers but this would be amortised 
over the life of the investment. 
6.41 
On balance my view in relation to the AIS variant is that the 
established need for new generation capacity and the lower cost 
of the AIS variant do not provide the exceptional reasons 
required to justify the harm to an asset of equivalent 
significance to a SM and that the presumption in favour of 
granting consent for an energy NSIP should not prevail. For that 
reason I find that the case for the AIS variant has not been 
made out.  
6.42 
I am satisfied that, taking into account the requirements in the 
DCO and the additional off-site measures provided for in the 
S106 agreement, the level of harm can be reduced with the GIS 
variant to a level where the need and other benefits can be 
expected to be greater than the harm to landscape and visual 
impact and historic and heritage assets. I therefore find that on 
balance the case for the GIS variant has been made out.  
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
91 
 
7 
COMPULSORY ACQUISITION AND OTHER LAND MATTERS 
The Request for Compulsory Acquisition Powers 
7.1 
The nature and scope of the proposed development has been 
described in Section 2 of this Report. The Order Limits for the 
project are shown by the red line boundary on sheet 1 of the 
original Land Plans (APP-012). Compulsory acquisition (CA) 
powers are sought in respect of the freehold of land shown in 
pink on the Land Plans and in respect of acquisition of rights 
over land shown in blue on the Land Plans. In both cases it is 
proposed to extinguish easements, servitudes and other private 
rights. CA powers would be provided through appropriate 
articles in the DCO. Temporary use of land is also sought for the 
land shown in yellow on the Land Plans. This does not constitute 
CA and is provided for in separate articles in the DCO.  
7.2 
In the previous section I concluded that, on balance, the case 
for the GIS variant had been made and that, on balance the 
case for the AIS variant had not been made. I have, 
nonetheless, for completeness considered the three separate 
applications for CA powers (and temporary possession) that 
were in the draft DCOs before me at the close of the 
Examination namely the revised original application, the refined 
application - AIS variant and the GIS variant. These variants 
differ in the extent of the land over which the relevant powers 
would be exercised.  
7.3 
A Statement of Reasons (APP-057), Funding Statement (APP-
042) and Book of Reference (APP-043) were provided with the 
application. The Book of Reference was updated during the 
course of the Examination and separate versions were provided 
linked to the three separate versions of the draft DCO provided 
in the final stages of the Examination. Books of Reference were 
provided for the revised original application (APP-099), the 
refined application - AIS variant (APP-110) and the GIS variant 
(APP-112). Land Plans were provided for the revised original 
application (APP-012), the refined application - AIS variant 
(APP-091) and the GIS variant (APP-092). 
7.4 
The land for which CA powers are sought is primarily 
agricultural land on the former Airfield and on land to the west 
of the A140. The crossing of the A140, Old Norwich Road and 
Leys Lane would affect public highways. 
The Requirements of the Planning Act 2008 
7.5 
Sections 122 and 123 of PA 2008 allow for the inclusion in the 
DCO of a provision authorising CA if the Secretary of State is 
satisfied that certain conditions are met.  
7.6 
Section122 (2) states that the land must be:  
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
92 
 
(a) required for the development to which the development 
consent relates; and  
(b) required to facilitate or be incidental to it; or  
(c) 
be exchange land.  
7.7 
Guidance (the Guidance) states that the land to be taken must 
be no more than is reasonably required and be proportionate.16  
7.8 
Section 122(3) requires that there must be a compelling case in 
the public interest for compulsory acquisition. The Guidance 
states that the public benefit derived from the compulsory 
acquisition must outweigh the private loss that would be 
suffered by those whose land is acquired.  
7.9 
Section 123 requires that one of three conditions is met by the 
proposal17. I am satisfied that the condition in s.123(2) is met 
because the application for the DCO included a request for 
compulsory acquisition of the land to be authorised. 
7.10 
A number of general considerations also have to be addressed 
either as a result of following applicable guidance or in 
accordance with legal duties on decision-makers: 
(a) all reasonable alternatives to compulsory acquisition must 
be explored 
(b) the applicant must have a clear idea of how it intends to use 
the land and to demonstrate that funds are available; and 
(c) 
the decision maker must be satisfied that the purposes 
stated for the acquisition are legitimate and sufficiently 
justify the inevitable interference with the human rights of 
those affected. 
Examination of the case for Compulsory Acquisition and 
other powers 
The applicant's case 
7.11 
The applicant's justification for seeking CA and other powers as 
set out in the Statement of Reasons is to secure land, the 
temporary use of land and the rights and other interests 
required to enable it to construct, operate and maintain the 
project within a reasonable commercial timeframe. It 
maintained that the land and rights to be acquired together with 
16 Planning Act 2008, Guidance related to procedures for compulsory acquisition (CLG, 2013) 
17 (1) An order granting development consent may include provision authorising the compulsory 
acquisition of land only if the Secretary of State is satisfied that one of the conditions in subsections 
(2) to (4) is met. 
(2) The condition is that the application for the order included a request for compulsory acquisition of 
the land to be authorised. 
(3) The condition is that all persons with an interest in the land consent to the inclusion of the 
provision. 
(4) The condition is that the prescribed procedure has been followed in relation to the land. 
 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
93 
                                       
 
 
the land required for temporary use was no more than was 
required to facilitate the project, its construction and future 
maintenance. 
7.12 
During the course of the Examination the applicant reached 
agreement with affected parties on the acquisition of the land 
and rights in questions and all objections to CA were withdrawn. 
Nonetheless the applicant wished to proceed with CA in order to 
ensure that certain easements and other private rights 
identified as affecting the land were extinguished. In addition 
there may be unknown rights, restrictions, easements or 
servitudes affecting the land which also need to be removed or 
extinguished in order to facilitate the construction and operation 
of the project without hindrance. In the absence of CA powers 
the Order Land might not be assembled. Uncertainty would 
prevail and the applicant considered that its objectives and 
Government policy objectives would not be achieved. 
7.13 
In the original application CA of the freehold in land was 
proposed for: 
(a) Plot 1_MS, agricultural land, for the purpose of the 
construction, maintenance and landscaping of the 
generation plant (Works 1and 2), gas connection (Works 4) 
and the electrical cable (Works 6);18 
(b) Plot 7_GR, agricultural land for the purpose of the 
construction and landscaping of the AGI and associated 
access (Works 3a) and the gas connection (Works 4) 
(c) 
Plots 14_ER, 15_ER, 16_ER, 17_ER, agricultural land, for 
the purpose of the construction and landscaping of the 
substation, associated infrastructure and landscaping 
(Works 5a and 5c-f)and plot 19_ER, agricultural land for the 
construction of the works associated with sealing end 
compound (Works 5a,and 5c-e) 
(d) Plots 1_JW and 2_JW, land forming part of farm, for the 
construction of a new access point to the A140 (Works 7). 
7.14 
Creation of new rights in order to facilitate the construction, 
operation and maintenance of the proposed development were 
proposed for: 
(a) Plots 1_GR, part of public footpath, 2_GR, land part of 
disused runway, 3_GR, private access road, 4_GR and 
5_GR, agricultural land, woodland and access track and 
6_GR, private access road; the right to construct, install, 
use, maintain and landscape the gas connection (Works 4). 
Plot 6_GR would also be required to provide access to the 
AGI (Works 3b). All of these plots would also be the subject 
of temporary use during construction. 
18 References such as Plot 1_MS relate to the plots shown on the relevant Land Plans. 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
94 
                                       
 
 
(b) Plots 1_ER, part of public footpath, 2_ER, land part of 
disused runway, 3_ER, private access road, 4_ER, 
agricultural land and access track, 5_ER, part of A140, 
6_ER, part of farm, 7_ER, part of Old Norwich Road, 8_ER. 
Part of Old Norwich Road, 9_ER, agricultural land, 10_ER, 
agricultural land, 11_ER, part of Leys Lane,12_ER, part of 
Leys Lane and 13_ER, agricultural land; the right to 
construct, install, use and maintain the underground cable 
(Works 6). All of these plots would also be the subject of 
temporary use during construction. 
(c) 
Plots 10_ER, agricultural land, 11_ER, part of Leys Lane, 
12_ER, part of Leys Lane, 13_ER, agricultural land, 4_JW, 
agricultural land, 5_JW, access road and car park and 6_JW, 
agricultural land; the right to construct use and maintain 
new access between Works 5 and the A140 (Works 7). All of 
these plots would also be the subject of temporary use 
during construction. 
7.15 
Temporary use of land not subject to CA would be required for: 
(a) The construction and installation of the gas connection and 
associated work (Works 4) on the following plots; 1a_GR, 
part of public footpath, 2a_GR, part of disused runway, 
2b_GR, part of disused runway, 3a_GR, private access road, 
4a_GR, agricultural land, 6a_GR, private access road and 
7a_GR, agricultural land. 
(b) The underground cable associated work (Works 6) on the 
following plots; 1a_ER, part of public footpath, 2a_ER, part 
of disused runway, 2b_ER, part of disused runway, 3a_ER, 
private access road, 4a_ER, agricultural land, 4b_ER, 
agricultural land, 4c_ER, agricultural land, 9a_ER, 
agricultural land and 9b_ER, agricultural land.  
(c) 
The construction and installation of new access between 
Works 5 and the A140 (Works 7); plot 3_JW, agricultural 
land. 
7.16 
Under the provisions of the DCO (Article 23) private rights over 
land subject to CA would be extinguished (except where subject 
to protective provisions). All private rights over land of which 
the applicant takes temporary possession would be suspended 
for as long as the applicant remained in possession of the land 
in so far as their continuance would be inconsistent with the 
temporary possession. This applied to each of the plots listed as 
subject to CA above. 
7.17 
There are no Crown interests or special category land involved 
in the proposed development. 
7.18 
A number of statutory undertakers would be affected by the CA 
proposals. Protective provisions to be included in the DCO have 
been agreed with NGET, NGG and Eastern Power Networks 
(REP-092, -082, AS-039). General protective provisions for the 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
95 
 
protection of electricity, gas, water and sewerage undertakers 
and operators of electronic communications code networks 
would also be included in the DCO.  
7.19 
The powers sought in order to implement the required CA and 
also the associated temporary possession of land are set out in 
Parts 3, 4, 5 and 6 of the draft DCO. 
7.20 
Section 120(5)(a) of PA2008 provides that a DCO may apply, 
modify or exclude a statutory provision which relates to any 
matter for which provision may be made in the DCO and 
s.117(4) provides that, if the DCO includes such provisions, it 
must be in the form of a statutory instrument. Schedule 7 of the 
draft DCO modifies the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965 and the 
Land Compensation Act 1965 and I confirm that the draft DCO 
is in the form of a statutory instrument. 
Changes to proposals during the Examination 
7.21 
During the Examination the applicant made changes to the Land 
Plans for the junction with the A140 and adjusted the proposed 
boundary for the AIS substation. It also submitted a separate 
set of Land Plans and Book of Reference for the GIS variant. I 
accepted these changes, all of which were within the original 
red line boundary for the site. At the end of the examination 
three separate sets of Land Plans and Books of Reference were 
provided relating to: 
(a) The revised original application DCO - APP-012 and APP-
099; 
(b) The refined application - AIS variant DCO - APP-091 and 
APP-110; and 
(c) 
The GIS variant DCO - App-092 and APP-112. 
7.22 
Compared to the revised original application the changes to the 
CA proposals in the refined application - AIS variant are: 
(a) Change in plot 1_JW from acquisition of freehold to creation 
of rights and removal of plot 2_JW from any CA 
requirement. This followed agreement that the A140 
junction would not be permanent but would be removed on 
completion of construction of the ECC. 
(b) Reduction in the area of plot 15_ER from 3,686 sq m to 
2,930 sq m, reduction in the area of plot 16_ER from 
33,625 sq m to 31,576 sq m, reduction in the area of plot 
17_ER from 15,448 sq m to 14,366 sq m. These reductions 
reflect the smaller land take required to accommodate 
revised landscaping plans for the ECC. 
7.23 
Compared to the revised original application the changes to the 
CA proposals in the GIS variant are: 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
96 
 
(a) Change in plot 1_JW from acquisition of freehold to creation 
of rights and removal of plot 2_JW from any CA 
requirement. This followed agreement that the A140 
junction would not be permanent but would be removed on 
completion of construction of the ECC. 
(b) Increase in the size of plot 13_ER from 2,585 sq m to 4,237 
sq m; identification of plot 13a_ER for temporary use of 
4,361 sq m of agricultural land; removal of plot 14_ER, 
7,241 sq m and plot 15_ER, 3,686 sq m; reduction in area 
of plot 16_ER from 33,625 sq m to 20,059 sq m; removal of 
plot 17_ER, 15,448 sq m; reduction in area of plot 18_ER 
from 8,242 sq m to 5,720 sq m. These revised dimensions 
and change in layout reflect the smaller footprint of the GIS 
variant and associated connections to the underground 
cable and the sealing end compound. 
7.24 
All of these changes result in a reduction in the red line 
boundary for the proposed development. The reduction in land 
required for each element in the project is summarised in Table 
7.1 (HR-049). 
 
Table 7.1: Land take for alternative red line boundaries. 
 
Revised original 
application (ha) 
Refined 
application - AIS 
variant (ha) 
GIS variant 
(ha) 
Total land take 
(order limits) 
28.96 
28.47 
25.33 
Generation plant 
(1_MS) 
8.67 
8.67 
8.67 
Gas connection 
(1_GR - 7a_GR) 
8.23 
8.23 
8.23 
Electrical 
connection (1_ER - 
13_ER) 
5.89 
5.89 
6.06 
ECC (13a_ER - 
19_ER 
7.08 
6.60 
3.30 
 
Possible alternatives to compulsory acquisition 
7.25 
The consideration given to alternative locations for the 
development has been summarised at paragraph 4.23 to 4.36 
above. Within the chosen location consideration was given to 
alternative layouts for the generation plant but these would all 
have required the same land take. A number of options were 
considered for the routing of the gas connection. Three shorter 
options requiring less land were rejected because they would 
breach National Grid safety guidelines for the positioning of gas 
pipes in proximity to wind turbines and the gas compressor 
station. Two other routes were rejected by the applicant 
because they would affect existing businesses or future 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
97 
 
development on the Airfield. An overhead line connection to the 
national transmission system was rejected as unsuited to the 
area and the underground cable follows the shortest route 
across open land. Two sites were considered for the ECC, the 
preferred site was considered by the applicant to have fewer 
disadvantages in terms of environmental impact. The 
alternatives of AIS and GIS substations with different land take 
as shown above were presented to the Examination. Where 
appropriate temporary possession was proposed as an 
alternative to CA. 
7.26 
Taking into account the alternatives considered the applicant 
took the view that the application for CA met the requirements 
of s 122(2)a and 122(2)b  of PA 2008 as being required for the 
development to which the development consent relates and 
required to facilitate or incidental to that development. 
Availability and Adequacy of Funds 
7.27 
A Funding Statement was provided with the application (APP-
042). The applicant is a subsidiary of WPL. NCFL is the parent 
undertaking of WPL and is itself a subsidiary of Noble Group 
Limited incorporated in Bermuda. NCFL has total net assets of 
$10 m; Noble Group has net assets of $5 bn. 
7.28 
The total cost of the development is estimated to be £210 m. 
The applicant has the ability to procure financial resources to 
fund the proposed development subject to approval of Noble 
Group Limited. These funds would meet the capital expenditure 
of the project, the cost of acquiring land and any compensation 
that might be payable. 
7.29 
Following discussion at the first ISH the applicant agreed to an 
article being included in the DCO requiring a guarantee or 
alternative form of security in respect of liabilities to pay 
compensation being in place before it began to exercise any of 
the CA powers conferred by the DCO (AS-018). This was 
amended following the second ISH (AS-039).  
Objections to compulsory acquisition 
7.30 
The Hammond family and the Talbot family both objected to the 
application in similar terms (REP-030, -040) on the grounds of 
its impact on landscape character and visual amenity. The 
families own land which would be subject to CA and temporary 
possession for the installation of the electrical cable and the 
construction of the ECC. The Hammonds own plots 8, 9, 10, 
11and 15_ER. The Talbots own plots 12, 13, 14, 16, 17, 18 and 
19_ER. They were concerned about the impact of CA on their 
farm and livelihood (RR-098). Following the completion of an 
option agreement with the applicant the objections of both 
families were withdrawn (REP-100, -101).  
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
98 
 
7.31 
Transam Trucking Limited objected to the application on the 
grounds that the CA powers being sought could affect access to 
its business on a site to the north east of the proposed 
generation plant (RR-102). The proposals for plots 3_GR, 
3a_GR, 6_GR and 6a_GR were identified as being of concern. 
After entering into an agreement with the applicant which met 
its concerns Transam Trucking Limited withdrew its objections 
(REP-109). 
7.32 
Tobar Group Trading Limited objected to the application on the 
grounds that the CA powers being sought could affect access to 
its warehouse on the Eye Airfield Industrial Estate (RR-107). 
Plots 3 and 6_GR were identified as being of concern. After 
entering into an agreement with the applicant which met its 
concerns Tobar Group Trading Limited withdrew its objections 
(REP-108). 
7.33 
Energy Power Resources and its subsidiary EPR Eye which 
operates the biomass (chicken litter) power station on the 
Airfield objected to the application on the grounds that the CA 
powers being sought could affect rights which the companies 
benefited from over plots 3_GR, 3_ER, 3a_GR, 3a_ER, 6_GR 
and 6a_GR (REP-034). After entering into an agreement with 
the applicant which met its concerns Energy Power Resources 
and EPR Eye withdrew their objections (REP-098, -099). 
7.34 
Eye Windpower submitted a late submission which I accepted 
objecting to the application on the grounds that the CA powers 
being sought could affect access to its wind turbine sites (AS-
033). Plots 6_GR and 6a_GR were identified as being of 
concern. After entering into an agreement with the applicant 
which met its concerns Eye Windpower withdrew its objections 
(REP-107). 
7.35 
NGG objected to the application on the grounds that the CA 
powers could extinguish rights which it had over plots 7_GR and 
7a_GR which were essential for access to and maintenance of 
the national gas transmission system (REP-038). Protective 
provisions were necessary to ensure that any rights required by 
NGG for its undertaking which were extinguished or removed 
were adequately replaced or reinstated and that provision was 
made for consultation with NGG prior to the exercise of any CA 
powers. Following discussions with the applicant NGG agreed 
the terms of protective provisions for inclusion in the DCO. NGG 
was satisfied that all outstanding matters between the parties 
had been resolved and its interests in the Order Land would be 
adequately protected. NGG accordingly withdrew all 
representations in respect of the DCO (REP-092). 
7.36 
NGET objected to the application on the grounds that the CA 
powers could extinguish rights which it had over plots 13_ER, 
14_ER, 17_ER, 18_ER and 19_ER (REP-037). Protective 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
99 
 
provisions were necessary to ensure that any rights required by 
NGET for its undertaking which were extinguished or removed 
were adequately replaced or reinstated and that provision was 
made for consultation with NGET prior to the exercise of any CA 
powers. Following discussions with the applicant NGET agreed 
the terms of protective provisions for inclusion in the DCO. 
NGET was satisfied that all outstanding matters between the 
parties had been resolved and its interests in the Order Land 
would be adequately protected. NGET accordingly withdrew all 
representations in respect of the proposed CA of its interests 
(REP-082). 
7.37 
A CA hearing was held on 9 December 2014 at which the 
applicant provided an update on its discussions with affected 
persons on its CA proposals (HR-040, -049). No further 
representations were made at the hearing. 
Human Rights Act1998 considerations19 
7.38 
A key consideration in formulating a compelling case is 
consideration of the potential interference with human rights 
which may occur if CA and temporary possession powers are 
granted and exercised.  
7.39 
The applicant acknowledged that the DCO engaged a number of 
the articles of the Human Rights Act: 
(a) Article 1 of the First Protocol (rights of those whose property 
is to be compulsorily acquired and whose peaceful 
enjoyment of their property is to be interfered with).  
(b) Article 6 entitles those affected by CA powers sought for the 
project to a fair and public hearing of their objections.  
(c) 
Article 8 protects private and family life, home and 
correspondence. No public authority can interfere with these 
interests except if it is in accordance with the law and is 
necessary in the interests of national security, public safety 
or the economic well-being of the country. 
7.40 
The applicant has stated that it considers that there would be a 
very significant public benefit arising from the granting of the 
DCO (APP-058). There has been the opportunity for affected 
persons to make representations during the preparation of the 
application. They had been consulted in accordance with s44 of 
PA 2008 and had rights to make claims for compensation.  
7.41 
The applicant considered that any infringement of the rights of 
those affected by CA would be proportionate and legitimate and 
in accordance with national and European law. 
19 http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1998/42/contents  
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
100 
                                       
 
 
Temporary possession 
7.42 
Articles 28 and 29 of the DCO set out powers to take temporary 
possession of land to carry out the authorised development and 
to maintain it. The land which would be subject to these powers 
has been listed above at paragraphs 7.15 and 7.23 and set out 
in the relevant Books of Reference and Land Plans for each 
variant of the application. Justification for the use of temporary 
possession powers is set out in the Statement of Reasons. 
Compensation is provided for through the funding arrangements 
described at paragraphs 7.27 to 7.29. 
7.43 
As indicated above these powers are not compulsory acquisition 
powers and accordingly the tests under sections 122 and 123 
are not applicable. However, the use of the power must be 
justified in order to enable the proposed development to be 
implemented and maintained, the inevitable interference with 
human rights must be justified and there must be adequate 
compensation provisions in place for those whose land is 
affected. 
7.44 
The Human Rights Act considerations have been addressed 
above and I am satisfied that the temporary possession powers  
are needed both to facilitate implementation of the proposed 
development and to maintain it and that there are also 
adequate compensation provisions in place in the draft DCO.   
Conclusions on compulsory acquisition and other powers 
7.45 
I have considered the three alternative proposals for CA and 
temporary possession that were before me at the close of the 
Examination. I am satisfied that in identifying these three 
options the applicant has, as described in paragraphs 4.23 -
4.36, adequately considered a wider range of alternatives. 
7.46 
I am satisfied that the land which is the subject of the request 
for compulsory acquisition for the refined application - AIS 
variant, meets the requirements of sections 122(2)a and 
122(2)b for a development with an AIS substation. The area of 
land subject to CA has been reduced relative to the original 
application in the light of revised landscaping plans and the 
change in the status of the A140 access from permanent to 
temporary. However, for the reasons set out in section 6 I have 
concluded that the case for the AIS variant has not been made. 
7.47 
The refined application- AIS variant only differs from the revised 
original application in those two respects. In all other respects 
the construction and operation of the proposed development 
would be the same. On that basis I conclude that the revised 
original application does not meet the requirements of sections 
122(2)a and 122(2)b. Clearly not all of the land identified for CA 
in the original application is required for the development of an 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
101 
 
AIS substation or is required to facilitate or is incidental to the 
development with an AIS substation. 
7.48 
For the reasons set out in section 6 I have concluded that the 
case for the GIS variant has been made. This variant requires 
considerably less land to be subject to CA and I am satisfied 
that the land which is the subject of the request for CA for the 
GIS variant, meets the requirements of sections 122(2)a and 
122(2)b. I am also satisfied that the land over which temporary 
possession is sought is necessary for the development to take 
place. 
7.49 
EN-1 states that the UK 'needs all the types of energy 
infrastructure covered by the NPS in order to achieve energy 
security at the same time as dramatically reducing greenhouse 
gas emissions.'  That includes fossil fuel plants such as the 
proposed development. It also states that applications for 
development consent should be assessed 'on the basis that the 
Government has demonstrated that there is a need for those 
types of infrastructure.' The Government has recently 
introduced a capacity market in order to strengthen energy 
security and the proposed plant is intended to operate in that 
part of the energy market. The plant would therefore meet the 
general public interest in the provision of additional generation 
capacity identified in the NPS and the specific need for capacity 
that could provide power at times of peak demand or other 
shortage. This can only be achieved with the use of CA powers. 
I am satisfied that the GIS variant would meet the condition in 
122(3) that there is a compelling case in the public interest for 
the land to be acquired compulsorily. 
7.50 
I am satisfied that the financial provision to provide 
compensation for CA as revised during the course of the 
Examination is adequate to meet the expected liabilities. 
7.51 
Having regard to the relevant provision of the Human Rights Act 
I have considered the individual rights interfered with and the 
submissions made by affected parties in this regard and am 
satisfied that:  
(a) In relation to Article 1 of the First Protocol that the proposed 
interference with the individual's rights would be lawful, 
necessary, proportionate and justified in the public interest.  
(b) In relation to Article 6 that objectors have had the 
opportunity to present their cases to us in writing and at the 
CA hearing and that all objections which have been made 
have been resolved.  
(c) 
In relation to Article 8 the interference is in accordance with 
the law and is necessary in the interests of the economic 
well-being of the country.  
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
102 
 
7.52 
My approach to the question whether and what compulsory 
acquisition powers I should recommend to the Secretary of 
State to grant has been to seek to apply the relevant sections of 
PA 2008, notably s.122 and s.123, the Guidance and the Human 
Rights Act 1998; and, in the light of the representations 
received and the evidence submitted, to consider whether a 
compelling case has been made in the public interest, balancing 
the public interest against private loss. 
7.53 
The draft DCO deals with both the development itself and 
compulsory acquisition powers. The case for compulsory 
acquisition powers must be consistent with the view that I have 
taken about the development as a whole. 
7.54 
In the conclusion to the preceding section I took the view that 
the case for the revised original application and the refined 
application - AIS variant had not been made out but the case 
for the GIS variant had been made. I am satisfied that, in the 
light of the factors set out above, the case has been made that 
the CA and temporary possession powers associated with the 
GIS variant are necessary to enable that development to 
proceed and I recommend accordingly.  
7.55 
If the Secretary of State were to disagree with my 
recommendation in favour of the GIS variant and decide that 
development consent should be granted for the refined 
application - AIS variant I am satisfied that the case has been 
made that the CA and temporary possession powers associated 
with that variant are necessary to enable the refined application 
- AIS variant of the development to proceed and I recommend 
accordingly.  
7.56 
If the Secretary of State were to decide in favour of the revised 
original application, I am not satisfied that the compulsory 
acquisition powers associated with the original application are 
necessary in full to enable the development to proceed. In that 
case I recommend that the land which is additional to the land 
required for the refined application - AIS variant should not be 
subject to CA powers.20 
20 The additional land can be identified by comparison of Plots ER_15, _16, _17 in the Land Plans at 
APP-012 and App-091. 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
103 
                                       
 
 
8 
DRAFT DEVELOPMENT CONSENT ORDER 
8.1 
A draft DCO was submitted with the application (APP-044) 
together with an Explanatory Memorandum (EM) (APP-045). 
The application DCO was progressively amended during the 
course of the Examination in response to my questions and 
discussions with IPs. The final version, revision 7, was 
submitted towards the end of the Examination (APP-116). This 
is referred to here as the final application DCO. 
8.2 
As explained at paragraph 2.28 in addition to the amendments 
to the application DCO, the applicant also submitted two 
variants. The first of these related to a refined version of the 
original application including the AIS variant for the substation 
but with a reduced red line boundary to the ECC. The final 
version of this (APP-114) is referred to here as the final refined 
application DCO. The second variant of the DCO includes the 
GIS instead of the AIS substation. This is referred to here as the 
final GIS variant DCO (APP-122).21 A revised EM was provided 
setting out the purpose and effect of the provisions in the final 
application DCO and showing how the final application DCO 
differed from the Model Provisions (APP-118). 
8.3 
I have concluded in section 6 that the case for the GIS variant 
has been made and that the case for the AIS variant has not 
been made. Nonetheless, for completeness, I have considered 
all three variants of the DCO which were before me at the close 
of the examination.  
8.4 
The main changes made to the application DCO during the 
examination were to the Interpretation section in Part 1, 
Principal Powers in Part 2, the Requirements in Schedule 2 and 
the Protective Provisions in Schedule 9. Some of these reflected 
drafting changes to reflect current practice, others of a 
substantive nature are discussed below. In considering the DCO 
I have also taken into account the additional off-site mitigation 
measures that would be secured through the S106 agreement 
(APP-120). 
Articles 
8.5 
The principal powers to be granted through the DCO are the 
same in all three versions that were before me at the close of 
the Examination. Comments below apply to all three versions 
unless specifically noted. These powers either follow the Model 
Provisions (which are not binding) or, if different, an 
explanation has been provided. Unless commented on below, I 
21 Track change versions for each iteration of each of these DCOs are available showing changes from 
the previous draft. APP-062, -066, -072, -077, 079, -102, -117 show successive changes to the 
original application DCO. APP-106 and -114 show changes to the refined application DCO and APP-104 
and -123 show changes to the GIS variant DCO. 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
104 
                                       
 
 
am satisfied with the use of the Model Provisions and with the 
explanations for variations from these Provisions.  
8.6 
Differences between these three versions of the proposed 
development are captured in the different versions of the 
documents listed in article 2 and which would be certified by the 
Secretary of State under the provision of article 38. For the 
purpose of comparison I have summarised the documents in the 
Examination Library relevant to each version of the DCO in 
Table 8.1. The principal differences between the versions (which 
have been summarised at paragraph 2.28) are in the books of 
reference, the land plans, works plans and important hedgerow 
plans. There are some consequential changes to other 
documents. I am satisfied that the documents listed here 
adequately describe the different versions of the development 
for the purposes of each DCO.  
Table 8.1: References to key documents 
 
Final application 
DCO  
Final refined 
application DCO  
Final GIS variant 
DCO  
Book of 
Reference  
Revision 3.0, 19 
December 2014 
(APP-099) 
Revision 4, 19 
December 2014 
(APP-110)  
Revision 1, 19 
December 2014  
(APP-112) 
Design 
Principles 
Statement  
p39 - 43 of the 
Design and 
Access 
Statement, March 
2014 (APP-052) 
and  
Design Principles 
Document  
(REP-097, Annex 
8)  
p39 - 43 of the 
Design and 
Access 
Statement, March 
2014 (APP-052) 
and  
Design Principles 
Document  
(REP-097, Annex 
8) 
p39 - 43 of the 
Design and 
Access 
Statement, March 
2014 (APP-052) 
and  
Design Principles 
Document  
(REP-097, Annex 
8) 
Ecological 
Management 
Strategy  
Revision 1.0, 
September 2014  
(REP-050, Annex 
3)  
Revision 1.0, 
September 2014 
(REP-050, Annex 
3) 
Revision 1.0, 
September 2014 
(REP-050, Annex 
3) 
Environmental 
Statement  
Environmental 
Statement with 
appendices and 
figures (APP-024 
to -038). Errata 
document APP-
064 and Non-
Technical 
Summary 
Revision 1  
(APP-040) 
Environmental 
Statement with 
appendices and 
figures (APP-024 
to -038). Errata 
document APP-
064 and Non-
Technical 
Summary 
Revision 1  
(APP-040)) 
Environmental 
Statement with 
appendices and 
figures (APP-024 
to -038). Errata 
document APP-
064 and Non-
Technical 
Summary 
Revision 1  
(APP-040) 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
105 
 
 
Final application 
DCO  
Final refined 
application DCO  
Final GIS variant 
DCO  
Flood Risk 
Assessment  
Revision 0, March 
2014 
(APP-020)  
Revision 1, 
December 2014 
(APP-097)  
Revision 0, 
December 2014  
(APP-098) 
Important 
Hedgerow Plan  
Revision 1, 
December 2014 
(HR-052)  
Revision 2.0, 
December 2014 
(HR-054)  
Revision 1, 
December 2014  
(HR-053) 
Landscape 
Mitigation 
Strategy  
Revision 3, 
December 2014   
(REP-097 Annex 
9) 
Revision 3, 
December 2014   
(REP-097 Annex 
9) 
Revision 3, 
December 2014   
(REP-097 Annex 
9) 
Land Plans  
Revision 0, March 
2014  
(APP-012) 
Revision 1, 
December 2014  
(APP-091) 
Revision 0, 
December 2014  
(APP-092) 
CTMP  
Revision 4, 
January 2015   
(REP-106 Annex 
2) 
Revision 0, 
December 2014   
(REP-097 Annex 
5) 
Revision 0, 
December 2014  
(REP-097 Annex 
6)  
CEMP  
Revision 3, 
January 2015  
(REP-106 Annex 
1) 
Revision 0, 
December 2014  
(REP-097 Annex 
3)  
Revision 0, 
December 2014  
(REP-097 Annex 
4)  
Outline 
Landscaping 
Plans  
Revision 1, 
November 2014 
(REP-089 Annex 
2). NB Figures 
11.35 & 11.36 
only  
 
Revision 0,  
December 2014 
(Annex 1)  
(REP-097) 
Revision 0, 
December 2014 
(Annex 2) 
(REP-097)  
Outline 
Lighting 
Strategy  
Revision 0, 
December 2014   
(REP-097 Annex 
7) 
Revision 0, 
December 2014 
(REP-097 Annex 
7) 
Revision 0, 
December 2014 
(REP-097 Annex 
7) 
Rights of Way, 
Streets & 
Access Plan  
Revision 1, 19 
December 2014 
(APP-108)  
Revision 1, 
December 2014  
(APP-095) 
Revision 0, 
December 2014  
(APP-096) 
Stage 2 WSI  
Stage 2 Written 
Scheme of 
Archaeological 
Investigation, 
September 2014  
(REP-050 Annex 
8) 
Stage 2 Written 
Scheme of 
Archaeological 
Investigation:- 
Revision 1, 
December 2014 
(APP-087)  
Stage 2 Written 
Scheme of 
Archaeological 
Investigation:- 
Revision 0, 
December 2014 
(APP-088) 
Travel Plan  
Revision 0, March 
2014 (APP-032 
Appendix 12.E) 
Revision 0, March 
2014 (APP-032 
Appendix 12.E) 
Revision 0, March 
2014 (APP-032 
Appendix 12.E) 
Works Plans  
Revision 1, 19 
December 2014  
Revision 1, 
December 2014 
Revision 0, 
December 2014  
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
106 
 
 
Final application 
DCO  
Final refined 
application DCO  
Final GIS variant 
DCO  
(APP-107) 
(APP-093)  
(APP-094) 
 
8.7 
The only other significant change made to article 2 during the 
Examination is the inclusion in all versions, at my request, of a 
revised definition of 'maintain'(DEC-007). This provides a 
narrower definition than was originally proposed. This is in line 
with recent practice in DCOs for other NSIPs. 
8.8 
Article 8 was added during the Examination to provide for a 
guarantee or other form of security for compensation payment 
to be in place before exercise of CA or temporary possession 
powers, as discussed at paragraph 7.29. This follows the form 
used in the Hornsea Offshore Wind Farm (Zone 4) Project 1 
DCO and I consider this necessary to provide assurance that the 
financial liabilities that would be incurred in the exercise of 
these powers can be met. 
8.9 
Article 9 was added following discussions between the applicant, 
MSDC and SCC to allow for the removal of hedgerows specified 
in the plans for the development which are covered by the 
Hedgerows Regulations 1997. 
8.10 
Article 10(5) originally provided a period of eight weeks for a 
street authority to take a decision on an application for consent 
in respect of street works after which time consent would be 
deemed to be granted. Following discussion this was amended 
to allow for a longer period than eight weeks to be agreed by 
the undertaker in writing. Similar wording has been included in 
article 13(6) in respect of temporary prohibition on use of 
streets, article 40(2) in respect of approvals and in Schedule 10 
on the procedure for the discharge of requirements. These 
changes have been agreed by the relevant authorities (REP-
068). I am satisfied that they provide adequate time for 
decisions to be taken. 
8.11 
Article 19 in the final application DCO includes a provision 19(3) 
to disapply the power to compulsorily acquire land from plots 
1_JW and 2_JW. Following the agreement that the A140 
junction should only be temporary these two plots would not be 
subject to CA see paragraph 7.22 above). The reference is 
included in article 19 because the land plans linked to this 
version of the DCO have not been amended. There is an 
equivalent reference to plot 2_JW at article 22(6) in respect of 
acquisition of rights. These references are not included in the 
final refined application DCO and the final GIS variant DCO 
because the relevant land plans have been amended to allow for 
the changes. 
8.12 
Wording was added to article 28 concerning the temporary use 
of land. The new wording allows the article to be used in the 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
107 
 
context of land which may be the subject of compulsory 
purchase prior to any such compulsory purchase taking place. 
This wording closely follows the wording in the Thames Water 
Utilities Limited (Thames Tideway Tunnel) Order 2014. 
8.13 
Articles 19 to 32 set out the powers necessary for carrying out 
the CA and temporary possession provisions that have been 
considered in section 7. 
8.14 
Article 33 was amended following consultation between the 
applicant, MSDC and SCC to allow for the removal of hedgerows 
within the order limit including the important hedgerows 
identified by the local authorities and listed in Schedule 11. 
8.15 
Article 38 on the certification of plans was amended at my 
request to include all of the key plans and other documents 
referred to in the article 2. 
Description of works 
8.16 
Schedule 1 sets out the seven elements in the works to be 
covered by the DCO. These are largely unchanged from the list 
in the original application. Works numbered 1, 2, 3, 4 and 6 - 
the generation plant, the AGI and the gas and electricity 
connections - constitute the NSIP; Works numbered 5 and 7 - 
the ECC and access road from the A140 - are associated 
development. At my suggestion the minimum size for the 
generating station was increased from 50 MWe to 50.1 MWe in 
order to be clear that it meets the NSIP test of being greater 
than 50 MWe. Provisions in Work No 3A (the AGI) and Work No 
5 (the ECC) referring to 'other ancillary equipment' have been 
deleted. 
8.17 
As a generating plant with a maximum output of 299 MWe the 
plant would not be subject to the requirement set out in EN-1 
and the Carbon Capture Readiness (Electricity Generating 
Stations) Regulations 2013 (the CCR Regulations)for the plant 
to be carbon capture ready. During the Examination I raised 
with the applicant the question of whether the maximum rated 
output of 299 MWe referred to the gross output of the 
generating plant or the net output exported from the site after 
allowing for transformer and other losses. Also whether this 
should be taken as an absolute limit or cap on output or a 
maximum in specified operating conditions (DEC-011, HR-049).  
8.18 
The applicant argued that the term 'rated electrical output' 
should be retained in the DCO because this was the term used 
in the CCR Regulations (HR-049). It was acknowledged that the 
term 'rated' was not defined in these Regulations but this was 
generally taken to refer to output under a standard set of 
ambient conditions as defined in ISO 2314. Actual maximum 
output might vary above or below that level with changes in the 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
108 
 
ambient conditions. Setting a maximum based on actual output 
would be inefficient because the ambient conditions in which 
more power is produced occur when it is cold, precisely when 
more power is required (HR-036). The applicant also drew 
attention to paragraph 4.7.5 of EN-1 where reference is made 
to 300 MW net capacity in respect of coal fired generation 
capacity. 
8.19 
I asked the EA for its views on the appropriate definition. The 
EA referred to the Directive on the Geological Storage of Carbon 
Dioxide 2009/31/EC (REP-074). This too does not provide a 
definition of rated output. The EA pointed out that performance 
tests used to agree rated output with a manufacturer could 
differ in the amount of ancillary equipment included as part of 
the test. These provided a net output value. There could clearly 
be variation between one performance test and another 
depending on the agreed ancillary plant that has been switched 
off.  
8.20 
To enable a meaningful comparison, the EA therefore 
considered that for the purposes of Article 33 of the Directive, 
the rated electrical output should be demonstrated by means of 
measurement of the electrical output at the generator output 
(gross output) and corrected to ISO conditions. This figure does 
not account for any parasitic electrical demand and would 
therefore be comparable. The demonstration would be made 
during the guarantee performance tests. The EA agreed with 
the applicant that it would not be appropriate to impose a cap 
on actual output.  
8.21 
Following discussion with the EA the applicant set out definitions 
of gross and net output for consideration (HR-036). These are: 
(a) “net rated electrical output" means the net electrical power 
as calculated by subtracting the energy used to operate the 
plant from the gross electrical power, and determined in 
accordance with standards agreed with the regulating 
authority under the Environmental Permitting (England and 
Wales) Regulations 2010 (as amended) or subsequent 
legislation.  
(b) "gross rated electrical output" means the gross electrical 
power as measured at the generator terminals in 
accordance with standards agreed with the regulating 
authority under the Environmental Permitting (England and 
Wales) Regulations 2010 (as amended) or subsequent 
legislation.  
8.22 
By setting a maximum output of 299 MW the applicant does not 
have to meet the requirements for carbon capture readiness 
that would apply to a plant with output of 300 MW or more. It is 
therefore important that the definition of output used is 
consistent with Directive 2009/31/EC and the CCR Regulations. 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
109 
 
In my view the Directive and the regulations have the objective 
of controlling, either now or in the future, the emissions of CO2 
from fossil fuel plant. The scale of any emissions would be 
determined by the gross output of the plant, not the net output 
after allowing for ancillary equipment. That suggests that a 
gross output definition would be consistent with the legislation 
and, as the EA has pointed out, would provide consistency of 
treatment between plant. It is for the Secretary of State to 
decide on this point but my recommendation is that the 
description of the authorised development in Schedule 1 should 
refer to 'gross rated electrical output of 50.1 - 299 MWe' and 
that the definition of gross rated electrical output agreed by the 
EA should be included in the Interpretation section in article 2. 
These changes are therefore included in my recommended draft 
DCO. 
Requirements 
8.23 
The DCO if granted would be subject to a number of 
requirements which are set out in Schedule 2. I comment here 
only on requirements which address specific issues raised 
during the course of the Examination. 
8.24 
Requirement 3 on Detailed Design sets out specific parameters 
for the main elements of the development. These represent the 
Rochdale envelope for the plant. The modifications agreed 
during the Examination are the inclusion of maximum widths for 
the emissions stack with different widths depending on the 
number of generating units. The maximum width has been 
reduced from 10 m in response to concerns raised by IPs and to 
maintain consistency with the ES and associated 
photomontages. The size of the raw and pure water tanks has 
been reduced in line with identified need for water on site. In 
the GIS variant the smaller scale of the substation is included in 
the limits. Provisions in respect of HDD under the A140 have 
been added at the request of the highway authority.  
8.25 
The details for Work No 5 specifies a maximum height for the 
sealing end compound and substation of 12.5 m. In its SoCG 
(REP-072) NGET agreed that both the AIS and GIS options for 
the substation could be built within the vertical parameters set 
out in this requirement. This would require the two gantries on 
the site not to exceed a maximum of 12.5 m. However the final 
gantry height would be subject to detailed design and 
confirmation from National Grid. Requirement 3 enables the 
parameters to be amended subject to the approval of the 
relevant planning authority under the provisions of Requirement 
23(1). I comment separately on that requirement at paragraph 
8.46 below. 
8.26 
Requirements 4 and 5 deal with landscaping. A landscaping plan 
substantially in accordance with the landscaping mitigation 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
110 
 
strategy and outline landscaping plans developed during the 
Examination must be agreed before the start of the Works. 
Landscaping must then be carried out in accordance with that 
plan. As noted in my conclusions on landscaping at paragraphs 
4.120 to 4.124 I agree that the landscaping proposals would go 
some way to mitigating the landscape and visual impact of the 
development, particularly the ECC and should be included 
whichever option is preferred. The S106 agreement provides for 
the funding of additional offsite planting and maintenance which 
I consider will provide valuable additional mitigation for the 
landscaping and visual impact.  
8.27 
Requirement 6 deals with highway access. This has been 
amended during the Examination so that the access from the 
A140 is only temporary and the land must be reinstated after 
completion of construction. This reduces the long term impact 
of the development.  
8.28 
Requirements 7 and 8 require details of fencing and drainage to 
be agreed with the relevant planning authority. At its request 
the EA has been included as a consultee on the drainage plans. 
8.29 
Requirement 9 provides for a written scheme of archaeological 
investigation to be agreed with the relevant planning authority 
in consultation with SCC. This must be substantially in 
accordance with the Stage 2 scheme submitted during the 
Examination. Provision is also made for a subsequent scheme of 
archaeological mitigation to be agreed. SCC and MSDC have 
confirmed that this requirement provides adequate assurances 
over the mitigation for any archaeological resources 
encountered during construction. 
8.30 
Requirement 10 on ecological management was amended 
during the Examination to include NE as a consultee. The 
ecological mitigation strategy would provide necessary 
mitigation for possible adverse effects on biodiversity in the 
neighbourhood of the development. The S106 agreement 
contains provisions for action outside of the boundary of the 
development to mitigate the impact on skylarks. 
8.31 
The outline CEMP referred to in Requirement 11 is a key 
document in defining mitigation measures that would be taken 
to address possible adverse impacts during the construction 
period. It outlines mitigation measures in respect of noise 
levels, air quality, contaminated land and groundwater, ecology, 
archaeology, cultural heritage, landscape and visual amenity 
and artificial lighting. It was revised during the course of the 
Examination to take into account comments from IPs and 
statutory bodies and includes provision for the setting up of a 
Community Liaison Group. Requirement 12 was added at the 
request of the EA setting out further steps to be taken in 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
111 
 
respect of contaminated land on the site for the generation 
plant. 
8.32 
Requirements 13, 14 and 15 relate to traffic and travel 
arrangements. The CTMP referred to in Requirement 13 has 
been amended during the Examination to take into account 
comments from IPs and statutory bodies. The main traffic 
impact would be during the construction period and mitigation 
measures have been agreed with the highway authority. 
Attention has been paid to maintaining access to local amenities 
during the construction period. Provision has been made in the 
S106 agreement to fund improvement to the A140/B1077 
junction which is already at full capacity at peak times. 
8.33 
Requirement 16 sets standard restrictions on construction 
hours. 
8.34 
Requirement 17 sets limits for noise levels at specific locations. 
The levels of impact of noise during construction were not 
considered to be significant. Noise control would be embedded 
into the design of the generation plant. The impact of noise was 
considered to be, at worst, minor and overall not to be 
significant. Concern was expressed about noise at the ECC 
located in agricultural land. Assurances were given that noise at 
the ECC would not be perceptible and I accept that no additional 
requirements to control noise are required. 
8.35 
Control of artificial light under Requirement 18 would be subject 
to a written scheme substantially in accordance with the outline 
lighting strategy. Separate outline strategies have been 
provided for the AIS and GIS variants reflecting their different 
sizes.  
8.36 
Requirement 19 requires further survey work to be carried out 
to identify the presence of any European protected species. If 
such species are identified then protection and mitigation must 
be approved by the relevant planning authority after 
consultation with NE. Although recent survey work had not 
identified the presence of GCN this requirement provides further 
assurance that mitigation measures would be put in place if 
future survey work identified a need. 
8.37 
Requirement 20 was added at my suggestion in order to ensure 
that the operation of the generation plant was limited to the 
1500 hours a year set out in the application and the ES. The 
drafting was refined during the course of the Examination and I 
am satisfied that it now correctly sets the limit whatever the 
number of generating limits installed. 
8.38 
Decommissioning requirements set out in Requirement 21of the 
draft DCO only apply to Works 1 and 2, the generation plant. It 
was argued by MSDC and SCC that the AGI (Work 3A) and the 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
112 
 
ECC (Work 5) should also be subject to decommissioning at the 
same time as the other Works (REP-051, -061). They argued 
that consent for the ECC was sought as associated development 
required for the operation of the generation plant and that its 
life should be linked to the life of the generation plant. Any 
extension of life beyond that of the generation plant should be 
subject to obtaining a new consent. 
8.39 
National Grid which would have the benefit of the Order for the 
ECC argued that once constructed the new substation would be 
owned by NGET and form part of the Main Interconnected 
Transmission System (MITS) in Great Britain (REP-044, HR-
034)). Under section 9 of the Electricity Act NGET is required to 
develop and maintain an efficient, co-ordinated and economical 
system of electricity transmission. While there are currently no 
proposals to connect other generation to the proposed 
substation that could not be ruled out in future. If a new 
requirement arose (and that is a matter that is outside of 
NGET's control) which could be met from use of the substation 
as the best available option it would prioritise use of existing 
assets in accordance with its section 9 and licence duties. 
Linking the proposed substation to the lifespan of this one 
power station by requiring decommissioning would fail to 
comply with NGET's statutory duties. 
8.40 
I have commented at paragraphs 6.30 to 6.33 on the 
interaction between NGET's duties and the definition of the 
development in the DCO and taken the view that specifying the 
GIS variant in the DCO would not put NGET in breach of its 
duties. In my view the same considerations apply in respect of 
any decommissioning requirements, namely that NGET must 
carry out its statutory duties within any requirements set in the 
DCO based on planning considerations. 
8.41 
The ECC is included in the application as associated 
development. As such its rationale is linked to the existence of 
the generation plant. If the plant is decommissioned then that 
rationale no longer exists. In my analysis of the balance 
between benefits and adverse effects I have taken the view 
that, for the GIS variant, the benefit in terms of the need for 
new generating capacity outweighs the adverse effects including 
the adverse effects from the ECC. If the generation capacity is 
closed then that benefit no longer exists and it is appropriate to 
require mitigation measures in terms of decommissioning. In 
my view the same consideration should apply to the AGI which 
is an integral part of the NSIP. If, by the time decommissioning 
of the generation plant is in prospect, NGET or NGG has 
identified a continuing use for either the AGI or the ECC then it 
would be open to them to seek a variation to the DCO. I 
therefore recommend that Requirement 21 be extended to 
cover Works 3 and 5 in addition to Works 1 and 2 and should 
also cover any other un-numbered works carried out as 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
113 
 
necessary or expedient for the purposes of those numbered 
works. I have included this change in my recommended draft 
DCO. 
8.42 
Requirement 22 was supported by MSDC and SCC in order to 
ensure that the substation (Works 5a) was not commissioned 
until the commencement of construction of the generation 
plant. The intention was to ensure that if the power station did 
not go ahead the substation was not constructed in advance of 
or in the absence of the generation plant (HR-035).  
8.43 
This was opposed by NGET on the grounds that it needed 
flexibility in the timing of the commissioning of the substation 
because of the lead time in planning outages on the national 
transmission network (HR-034). Commissioning was dictated by 
the date set in the connection agreement with the customer. 
Outages on the system to enable connection are then booked in 
accordance with that agreement. NGET has a contractual 
obligation and statutory and licence duties to connect the 
customer in accordance with that agreement - if connection of 
the power station is delayed, as is frequently the case, and 
outages are not available for access to the system, the outage 
and therefore commissioning date of the substation and 
subsequent connection of the generator must be delayed until 
outages are available.  
8.44 
A key overarching requirement of NGET’s transmission licence is 
to ensure that it complies with its section 9 duty to develop and 
maintain an efficient, coordinated and economical system of 
electricity transmission. NGET would work closely with the 
applicant to optimise the construction programme making 
efficient use of outage availability. It was unlikely that 
construction work would commence until there was certainty 
over the generation plant going ahead. It would be very 
difficult, if not impossible, for NGET to comply with the 
proposed requirement against the backdrop of those obligations 
and outage constraints. 
8.45 
In my view the requirement is not well drafted to achieve the 
stated objective. It would allow the construction but not the 
commissioning of the substation and so would not avoid the 
creation of a stranded asset if the generation plant was not 
constructed. I see merit in NGET's arguments that, given its 
licence duties, it would not undertake unnecessary investment. 
I recommend that this requirement be rejected and have 
deleted it from the recommended draft DCO. 
8.46 
Requirement 23(1) provides for amendment to the approved 
plans, parameters, details and schemes by the relevant 
planning authority. This goes beyond the provision for flexibility 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
114 
 
considered appropriate in Advice Note 15, on drafting DCOs 
published by the Planning Inspectorate in October 2014.22 The 
only possible use of this requirement that was mentioned during 
the course of the Examination was in respect of the gantry 
height at the sealing end compound and substation specified in 
Table 2 of Requirement 3 (see paragraph 8.25). The proviso in 
Requirement 23(2) states that approval should not be given 
unless it has been demonstrated that the change is unlikely to 
give rise to any materially new of materially different 
environmental effects. I consider that this requirement provides 
a small but reasonable degree of flexibility in finalising details of 
design but I recommend that it be strengthened by changing 
the words 'is unlikely to' to 'does not'. To be consistent with this 
recommendation I also recommend that the tailpiece to 
Schedule 1 (after the description of Work No 7) should be 
amended to change 'are unlikely to' to 'do not'.  
8.47 
Schedules 3 - 6 set out the proposed street works as detailed in 
the relevant land and works plans. Schedule 7 sets out 
provisions for compensation for the creation of new rights. 
Schedule 8 sets out the land over which temporary possession 
is sought as detailed in the relevant land and works plans. 
Schedule 9 provides protective provisions for National Grid, 
other electricity, gas, water and sewerage undertakers, 
operators of electronic communications code networks and 
Eastern Power Networks as agreed with the named operators. 
8.48 
Schedule 10 provides for discharge of requirements by the 
relevant planning authority and for appeal against decisions. 
Decisions must be taken within 8 weeks unless a longer period 
is agreed by both parties. These provisions have been agreed 
by the relevant planning authorities. 
8.49 
Schedule 11 sets out a list of important hedgerows agreed with 
MSDC and SCC which could be removed under the provisions of 
article 33. Schedule 11 is the same for the final application DCO 
and the final refined application DCO. It contains a shorter list 
of important hedgerows in the final GIS variant DCO. 
8.50 
A summary of the main issues raised during the Examination, 
proposed mitigation measures and how these might be secured 
through the DCO or other means is set out in Table 8.2. 
 
 
Table 8.2: Issues raised, mitigation measures and 
 
 
implementation 
Issue raised 
Proposed 
mitigation 
Means of 
implementation 
22 Advice Note 15. Drafting development Consent Orders. Planning Inspectorate October 2014. 
http://infrastructure.planningportal.gov.uk/wp-
content/uploads/2014/10/advice_note_15_version_1.pdf 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
115 
                                       
 
 
Air quality 
Embedded design 
(stack height) 
CEMP 
Operational hours 
EP 
R3 
R8 
 
R20 
To be considered 
by EA 
Water use and 
quality 
Embedded design 
(Dry NOx) 
Drainage system 
Land contamination 
CEMP 
EP 
R3 
 
R8 
R12 
R11 
To be considered 
by EA 
Noise 
Specific limits 
CEMP 
R17 
R11 
Lighting 
Outline lighting 
strategy 
R18 
Biodiversity 
New planting 
EMP 
Protected species 
Skylark provision 
R4, R5 
R10 
R19 
S106 
Landscape and 
visual impact 
Embedded design 
(SCGT, GIS) 
Landscaping/ new 
planting 
Decommissioning 
Offsite planting 
R3 
 
R4, R5 
 
R21 
S106 
Historic and 
heritage assets 
Embedded design 
(SCGT, GIS) 
Landscaping 
Archaeological 
investigation 
R3 
 
R4, R3 
 
R9 
Traffic and 
transport 
Junction layout 
Temporary junction 
on A140 
Access to local 
facilities, safety of 
horse riders 
CEMP. CTMP, CTP, TP, 
construction hours 
B1077/A140 junction 
and connectivity 
R6 
R6 
 
R11,R13, R14, 
R15, 16 
 
 
 
S106 
Health 
Site safety (fencing) 
R7 
Socio economic 
impact 
Construction hours 
Education and 
employment; use of 
local services 
R16 
S106 
 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
116 
 
Findings and conclusions on the DCO 
8.51 
As set out above at paragraph 6.41 I have concluded on the 
basis of the evidence before me and for the reasons given that 
the case for the AIS variant of the ECC has not been made out. 
I therefore recommend that the applications for the final 
application DCO and the final refined application DCO should not 
be granted.  
8.52 
As set out at paragraph 6.42 I consider that the case for the 
GIS variant has been made and also that, taking into account 
relevant sections of PA 2008, notably s.122 and s.123, the 
Guidance and the Human Rights Act 1998 the case has been 
made that the CA powers associated with that variant are 
necessary to enable the GIS variant to proceed (see paragraph 
7.54). I recommend that the application for the final GIS variant 
DCO should be granted in the form attached at Appendix 4. The 
relevant versions of the documents referred to in the draft DCO 
which would be submitted to the Secretary of State for 
certification are set out in the final GIS variant DCO column of 
Table 8.1.  
8.53 
For the avoidance of doubt the recommended DCO is the same 
as the final GIS variant submitted by the applicant except for: 
(a) Drafting changes to conform with the required statutory 
instrument format including the addition of footnotes; 
(b) The addition of the definition of gross rated electrical output 
in Article 2, Interpretation; 
(c) 
The substitution of the words 'gross rated electrical output' 
in place of 'rated electrical output' in the third line of 
Schedule 1; 
(d) The addition of Works No 3 and 5 to Requirement 21; 
(e) The deletion of Requirement 22 in Schedule 2; 
(f) 
The amendment of the wording in the tailpiece to Schedule 
1 from 'are unlikely to' to 'do not' and in Requirement 23 
(renumbered as Requirement 22) from 'is unlikely to' to 
'does not'.  
8.54 
If the Secretary of State does not accept my conclusion in 
favour of the GIS variant and considers that the case for the 
AIS substation has been made then I recommend that the 
application for the final refined application DCO should be 
granted using the final draft submitted by the applicant and 
subject to the same changes as are listed in paragraph 8.53 
above. The relevant versions of the documents referred to in 
the draft DCO which would be submitted to the Secretary of 
State for certification are set out in the final refined application 
DCO column of Table 8.1. The final application DCO although 
the same in many respects as the final refined application DCO 
differs in the extent of land subject to CA. As noted at 
paragraph 7.56, I do not consider that the additional land meets 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
117 
 
the requirements of section 122 and I recommend that that 
DCO should not be granted.  
 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
118 
 
9 
SUMMARY OF CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS 
9.1 
The application is for the construction, operation and 
maintenance of an SCGT 'peaking' power generating plant with 
a capacity of between 50.1 - 299 MWe on land at and 
surrounding the former Eye Airfield in Eye, Mid Suffolk. As such 
it is a NSIP as defined in section 14(1)a and section 15 of PA 
2008. A pipeline connection to bring gas to the generation plant 
and an underground electrical cable for the export of electricity 
are specified as integral to the project. An ECC comprising a 
new substation and a sealing end compound is proposed as 
associated development. An access road to the ECC with a new 
road junction off the A140 is also proposed as associated 
development. The draft DCO includes provisions for compulsory 
acquisition.  
9.2 
I have carried out this Examination of the application in 
accordance with the general principles and specific guidance set 
out in EN-1, EN-2, EN-4 and EN-5. I have also had regard to the 
joint LIR submitted by MSDC and SCC. 
Principal issues 
9.3 
My findings and conclusions on the principal issues raised by the 
proposed development have been set out in section 4 of this 
report. My conclusions on the case for the development taking 
individual issues into account and balancing the benefits and 
adverse effects identified are set out in section 6. On balance I 
have found that, taking into account mitigation measures that 
would be secured through the DCO and S106 agreement, no 
significant weight needs to be attached to the impact of the 
development on : 
(a) Emissions from the development including emissions to air, 
water and noise; 
(b) Biodiversity; and 
(c) 
Traffic and transport. 
(d) Health 
9.4 
I consider that there would be positive impacts from the 
development from its contribution to the need for new fossil fuel 
generation capacity identified in EN-1 and to its potential role in 
the newly introduced capacity market. EN-1 states that the 
decision maker should start with a presumption in favour of 
granting consent for energy NSIPs. This applies unless any 
more specific and relevant policies set out in the relevant NPSs 
clearly indicate that consent should be refused. I have also 
identified a small positive contribution to the local and national 
economy from the development. 
9.5 
On the other side of the balance I have identified a negative 
impact from the project in terms of its impact on: 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
119 
 
(a) Landscape and visual impact. This would be partly but not 
totally offset by mitigation measures and would be smaller if 
the GIS variant was adopted. 
(b) Historic and heritage assets. There would some adverse 
impact on the setting of designated heritage assets even 
after mitigation measures. If the AIS variant was adopted 
there would be a substantial direct and irreversible adverse 
effect on the field system HA 10 which in my view may be of 
equivalent significance to a designated SM. If the GIS 
variant was adopted there would still be an adverse effect 
but it would be less than substantial. 
9.6 
EN-1 is clear that there should be a presumption in favour of 
conservation of designated assets or assets with archaeological 
interest that are not currently designated as SM but are 
demonstrably of equivalent significance. The impacts on LBs, 
conservation areas and SMs are matters to which the decision-
maker must have regard under the requirements of the 
Decisions Regulations. EN-1 sets out that loss affecting any 
designated heritage asset should require clear and convincing 
justification. Substantial harm to or loss of designated assets of 
the highest significance including SMs should be wholly 
exceptional. The same consideration applies to an asset that 
may be of equivalent significance to a designated SM. In my 
view that indicates that significant weight should be given to the 
damage to the field system from the AIS variant and that it 
would need to be shown why wholly exceptional reasons apply 
in granting a DCO. If the GIS variant was adopted weight 
should still be given to the harm but this would be at a lower 
level of significance. Under either option some weight should be 
attached to the adverse impact on the setting of the field 
systems. 
9.7 
Even if the field system was not considered to be of equivalent 
significance to a SM, weight should still be given to the harm 
that would be caused to non-designated heritage assets and to 
the fact that this harm would be less if the GIS variant was 
adopted. 
9.8 
There is a fine balance between the benefits and adverse effects 
of the development. I attach particular importance to the fact 
that the damage to the field system would be permanent. In 
addition I note that the benefit to be obtained from allowing the 
development is not contingent on adopting the AIS variant. It 
can equally be obtained by adopting the GIS variant which has 
a lesser impact both in respect of landscape and visual impact 
and historic and heritage assets. There would be an additional 
cost of the GIS option, estimated to be £4m, which would be 
passed on to electricity customers but this would be amortised 
over the life of the investment. 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
120 
 
9.9 
On balance my view in relation to the AIS variant is that the 
established need for new generation capacity and the lower cost 
of the AIS variant do not provide the exceptional reasons 
required to justify the harm to an asset of equivalent 
significance to a SM and that the presumption in favour of 
granting consent for an energy NSIP should not prevail. For that 
reason I find that the case for the AIS variant has not been 
made out.  
9.10 
I am satisfied that the level of harm can be reduced with the 
GIS variant to a level where the need and other benefits can be 
expected to be greater than the harm to landscape and visual 
impact and historic and heritage assets. I therefore find that on 
balance the case for the GIS variant has been made out. 
9.11 
I have considered NGET's arguments that restricting its choice 
to a GIS substation could put it in breach of its obligations 
under section 9 of the Electricity Act but I do not accept the 
analysis. There are significant differences in planning terms 
between the impacts of the AIS and GIS options. These impacts 
are important and relevant considerations in making a 
recommendation on whether to grant a DCO and in considering 
the details of the draft DCO. They concern issues which are the 
subject of guidance in EN-1 and are matters identified as being 
of overriding concern in the LIR. These are both documents to 
which the Secretary of State must have regard in making his 
decision. 
9.12 
Where it is possible for me to make a recommendation and the 
Secretary of State to take a decision on planning matters as 
part of the application such a decision should not be deferred 
and, in effect delegated to a third party. Coming to a view on 
the choice between the AIS and GIS options would not, in my 
view, override NGET's Electricity Act duties. NGET has 
acknowledged that it can only carry out the design and 
construction of the ECC in line with the terms of the DCO. The 
DCO would set the parameters within which NGET must then 
exercise its duties. 
Habitats Regulations  
9.13 
Two European sites have been identified as being potentially 
affected by the proposed development. These sites which are at 
least 7.3 km from the project site are: 
(a) Redgrave and South Lopham Fens Ramsar Site; and  
(b) Waveney and Little Ouse Valley Fens SAC. 
9.14 
Taking mitigation measures into account the stage 1 screening 
matrices did not identify any significant effects and it was not 
necessary to consider the effects on the integrity of European 
sites. 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
121 
 
9.15 
Taking into account the evidence presented I accept the 
applicant's conclusion of no likely significant effect on the 
European sites in question and conclude that it is not necessary 
for the Secretary of State to carry out an appropriate 
assessment. 
Compulsory acquisition 
9.16 
I have considered the three alternative proposals for CA and 
temporary possession that were before me at the close of the 
Examination.  
9.17 
I am satisfied that the land which is the subject of the request 
for compulsory acquisition for the refined application - AIS 
variant, meets the requirements of sections 122(2)a and 
122(2)b for a development with an AIS substation. The area of 
land subject to CA has been reduced relative to the original 
application in the light of revised landscaping plans and the 
change in the status of the A140 access from permanent to 
temporary. However I have concluded that the case for the AIS 
variant has not been made. 
9.18 
The refined application- AIS variant only differs from the 
original application in those two respects. In all other respects 
the construction and operation of the proposed development 
would be the same. On that basis I conclude that the original 
application does not meet the requirements of sections 122(2)a 
and 122(2)b. Clearly not all of the land identified for CA in the 
original application is required for the development of an AIS 
substation or is required to facilitate or is incidental to the 
development. 
9.19 
The GIS variant requires considerably less land to be subject to 
CA and I am satisfied that the land which is the subject of the 
request for compulsory acquisition for the GIS variant, meets 
the requirements of sections 122(2)a and 122(2)b for a 
development with a GIS substation. I am also satisfied that the 
land over which temporary possession is sought is necessary for 
the development to take place. 
9.20 
The plant would meet the general public interest identified in 
EN-1 in the provision of additional generation capacity identified 
in the NPS and the specific need for capacity that could provide 
power at times of peak demand or other shortage. This can only 
be achieved with the use of CA powers. I am satisfied that the 
GIS variant would meet the condition in 122(3) that there is a 
compelling case in the public interest for the land to be acquired 
compulsorily. 
9.21 
I am satisfied that the financial provision to provide 
compensation for CA as revised during the course of the 
Examination is adequate to meet the expected liabilities. 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
122 
 
9.22 
Having regard to the relevant provision of the Human Rights Act 
I have considered the individual rights interfered with and the 
submissions made by affected parties in this regard and am 
satisfied that:  
(a) In relation to Article 1 of the First Protocol that the proposed 
interference with the individual's rights would be lawful, 
necessary, proportionate and justified in the public interest.  
(b) In relation to Article 6 that objectors have had the 
opportunity to present their cases to us in writing and at the 
CA hearing and that all objections which have been made 
have been resolved.  
(c) 
In relation to Article 8 the interference is in accordance with 
the law and is necessary in the interests of the economic 
well-being of the country.  
9.23 
I have concluded that the case for the original application and 
the refined application - AIS variant had not been made out but 
the case for the GIS variant had been made. I am satisfied that, 
in the light of the factors set out above, the case has been 
made that the CA and temporary possession powers associated 
with that variant are necessary to enable the GIS variant of the 
development to proceed and I recommend accordingly.  
9.24 
If the Secretary of State were to disagree with my 
recommendation in favour of the GIS variant and decide that 
development consent should be granted for the refined 
application - AIS variant I am satisfied that the case has been 
made that the CA and temporary possession powers associated 
with that variant are necessary to enable the refined application 
- AIS variant of the development to proceed and I recommend 
accordingly.  
9.25 
If the Secretary of State were to decide in favour of the revised 
original application, I am not satisfied that the compulsory 
acquisition powers associated with the revised original 
application are necessary in full to enable the development to 
proceed. In that case I recommend that the land which is 
additional to the land required for the refined application - AIS 
variant should not be subject to CA powers. 
International obligations 
9.26 
I am satisfied that deciding the application on this basis would 
not lead to the United Kingdom being in breach of its 
international obligations. The Secretary of State would not be in 
breach of any duty imposed on him by or under any enactment 
nor would the decision be unlawful by virtue of any enactment. 
  Development consent 
9.27 
I am satisfied that the measures proposed in the draft DCO and 
in the S106 agreement provide mitigation for adverse effects 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
123 
 
identified during the Examination. They are necessary, relevant 
to planning and relevant to the development. The measures 
proposed are enforceable, precise and reasonable. To the extent 
that there are adverse effects which are not mitigated by these 
measures I have balanced those adverse effects against the 
benefits of the development. I am satisfied that the benefits in 
meeting the national need for new generation capacity and to 
the local economy outweigh any remaining adverse effects of 
the proposal in the case of the GIS variant but do not outweigh 
the adverse effects of the AIS variant.  
9.28 
I therefore recommend that the Secretary of State does not 
grant development consent for the final application DCO nor the 
final refined application DCO but does grant development 
consent for the proposed development including CA provisions 
in the terms of the draft DCO for the GIS variant in the form 
attached at Appendix 4. 
 
 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
124 
 
APPENDICES 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
125 
 
Page intentionally left blank 
 
 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
126 
 
APPENDIX 1: EXAMINATION LIBRARY 
 
 
EXAMINATION LIBRARY 
 
CONTENTS  
 
The following is a list of documents that were submitted during the course 
of the Examination. The documents are grouped together by document 
type. 
 
Each document has been given an identification number (e.g. APP-001), 
and all documents are available to view on the Planning Inspectorate’s 
National Infrastructure Planning website at the South Hook Combined 
Heat & Power Station project page:  
 
http://infrastructure.planningportal.gov.uk/projects/eastern/progress-
power-station/ 
 
INDEX 
 
Document type 
Reference 
Application Documents 
APP-xxx 
Procedural Decisions 
DEC-xxx 
Relevant Representations 
RR-xxx 
Representations 
REP-xxx 
Hearing, Meeting & Site Visit Documents 
HR-xxx 
Project documents 
PD-xxx 
Additional Submissions 
AS-xxx 
 
 
 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
A1 
 
 
APPLICATION DOCUMENTS (APP) 
 
DOC REF 
 
TITLE 
 
Application  Form  
APP-001 
Reference not used 
APP-002 
1.1 Introduction to the Applicant 
APP-003 
1.2 Application Form 
APP-004 
1.3 Copies of Newspaper Notices 
APP-005 
Covering Letter and Book of Reference Cross Reference Table 
  
Plans & Drawings 
APP-006 
2.1 Location Plan 
APP-007 
2.10 Outline Lighting Layout 
APP-008 
2.2 Existing Site Layout Plan 
APP-009 
Reference not used 
APP-010 
2.4 Indicative Site Layout Plans 
APP-011 
2.5 Indicative Elevation Drawings 
APP-012 
2.6 Land Plans 
APP-013 
2.7 Works Plans 
APP-014 
2.8 Rights of Way Streets and Access Plan 
APP-015 
2.9 Outline Landscaping Plans 
APP-084 
2.9 Outline Landscaping Plans (v.2.0) 
APP-089 
2.10 Outline Lighting Layout (rev. 3.0) 
APP-090 
2.10 Outline Lighting Layout - GIS Variant 
APP-091 
2.6 Land Plans (rev. 1.0) 
APP-092 
2.6 Land Plans - GIS Variant  
APP-093 
2.7 Works Plans - Refined application 
APP-094 
2.7 Works Plans - GIS Variant 
APP-095 
2.8 Rights of Way Street and Access Plan – Refined application 
APP-096 
2.8 Rights of Way Street and Access Plan - GIS Variant 
APP-107 
2.7 Works Plans (Rev. 1.0) 
APP-108 
2.8 Rights of Way, Streets and Access Plan (Rev. 1.0) 
APP-121 
2.7 Works Plans rev 1 (amended 21 January 2015) 
  
Reports  
APP-016 
5.1 Consultation Report 
APP-017 
5.2 Consultation Report Appendices - Volume 1 Appendices 2.A - 
3.M 
APP-018 
5.2 Consultation Report Appendices - Volume 2 Appendices 3.N - 
4.D 
APP-019 
5.3 Consultation Report Non-Technical Summary 
APP-020 
5.4 Flood Risk Assessment 
APP-021 
5.5 Statement of Engagement of Section 79(1) of the 
Environmental Protection Act 1990 
APP-022 
5.6 Details of Other Consents and Licences 
APP-023 
5.7 No Significant Effects Report 
APP-097 
5.4 Flood Risk Assessment (rev. 1.0) 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
A2 
 
DOC REF 
 
TITLE 
APP-098 
5.4 Flood Risk Assessment - GIS Variant 
  
Environmental Statement 
APP-024 
6.1 Environmental Statement 
APP-025 
6.2 Environmental Statement Appendices - Volume A Appendices 
3.A - 3.B 
APP-026 
6.2 Environmental Statement Appendices - Volume B Appendix 
4.A Outline CEMP 
APP-027 
6.2 Environmental Statement Appendices - Volume C Appendix 
5.A CHP Report 
APP-028 
6.2 Environmental Statement Appendices - Volume D Appendices 
6.A - 6.D 
APP-029 
6.2 Environmental Statement Appendices - Volume E Appendices 
7.A - 7.B 
APP-030 
6.2 Environmental Statement Appendices - Volume F Appendices 
8.A - 8.F 
APP-031 
6.2 Environmental Statement Appendices - Volume G Appendices 
10.A - 10.C 
APP-032 
6.2 Environmental Statement Appendices - Volume H Appendices 
12.A - 12.I 
APP-033 
6.2 Environmental Statement Appendices - Volume I Appendices 
13.A - 13.E 
APP-034 
6.2 Environmental Statement Appendices - Volume J Appendix 
15.A E and I EMF Assessment 
APP-035 
6.3 Environmental Statement Figures - Volume A Figures 1.1 - 6.7 
APP-036 
6.3 Environmental Statement Figures - Volume B Figures 7.1 - 
10.1 
APP-037 
6.3 Environmental Statement Figures - Volume C Figures 11.1 - 
11.36 
APP-038 
6.3 Environmental Statement Figures - Volume D Figures 13.1 - 
14.7 
APP-039 
6.4 Environmental Statement Non-Technical Summary 
APP-040 
6.4 Updated Environmental Statement Non-Technical Summary 
APP-085 
Appendix A of the outlined construction management plan – AIS 
Variant (for Refined application) 
APP-086 
Appendix A of the outlined construction management plan - GIS 
Variant 
APP-087 
Stage 2 written scheme of archaeological Investigation (rev. 1.0) 
APP-088 
The Stage 2 written scheme of archaeological Investigation - GIS 
Variant 
APP-109 
Cover page inserts for ES Appendices submitted at deadline 7 
  
Compulsory Acquisition Information  
APP-041 
4.1 Statement of Reasons 
APP-057 
Statement of Reasons (Rev 1.0) 
APP-058 
Statement of Reasons (Rev 1.0, track changed) 
APP-042 
4.2 Funding Statement 
APP-043 
4.3 Book of Reference 
APP-059 
Book of Reference (Rev. 1) 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
A3 
 
DOC REF 
 
TITLE 
APP-060 
Book of Reference (Rev 1, track changed) 
APP-069 
Amended Book of Reference (Rev. 2) 
APP-070 
Amended Book of Reference (Rev 2, track changed) 
APP-080 
4.3 Book of Reference - Refined application 
APP-081 
4.3 Book of Reference - Refined application (track changed) 
APP-082 
4.3 Book of Reference - GIS Variant 
APP-083 
4.3 Book of Reference - GIS Variant (track changed) 
APP-099 
4.3 Book of Reference (Rev.3) 
APP-100 
4.3 Book of Reference (Rev.3, track changed)  
APP-110 
4.3 Book of Reference – Refined application (Rev.4) 
APP-111 
4.3 Book of Reference – Refined application (Rev.4, track 
changed) 
APP-112 
4.3 Book of Reference – GIS Variant (Rev.1) 
APP-113 
4.3 Book of Reference – GIS Variant (Rev.1, track changed) 
  
Draft Development Consent Order 
APP-044 
3.1 Draft Development Consent Order 
APP-045 
3.2 Explanatory Memorandum 
APP-061 
Draft Development Consent Order (Rev. 1) 
APP-062 
Draft Development Consent Order (Rev. 1, track changed) 
APP-065 
Draft Development Consent Order (Rev. 2) 
APP-066 
Draft Development Consent Order (Rev. 2, track changed) 
APP-071 
Draft Development Consent Order (Rev. 3) 
APP-072 
Draft Development Consent Order (Rev. 3, track change) 
APP-076 
Draft Development Consent Order (Rev. 4) 
APP-077 
Draft Development Consent Order (Rev. 4, track changed) 
APP-078 
Draft Development Consent Order (Rev. 5) 
APP-079 
Draft Development Consent Order (Rev. 5, track changed) 
APP-101 
Draft Development Consent Order (Rev. 6) 
APP-102 
Draft Development Consent Order (Rev. 6, track change) 
APP-103 
Draft Development Consent Order – GIS variant 
APP-104 
Draft Development Consent Order – GIS variant (track change) 
APP-105 
Draft Development Consent Order - Refined application 
APP-106 
Draft Development Consent Order - Refined application (track 
changed) 
APP-114 
Draft Development Consent Order – Refined application (rev. 1.0) 
APP-115 
Draft Development Consent Order – Refined application (rev. 1.0, 
track changed) 
APP-116 
Draft Development Consent Order (rev. 7.0) 
APP-117 
Draft Development Consent Order (rev. 7.0, track changed) 
APP-118 
Explanatory Memorandum (rev. 1.0) 
APP-122 
Draft Development Consent Order - GIS variant (rev. 1.0) 
APP-123 
Draft Development Consent Order - GIS variant (rev. 1.0, track 
changed) 
  
Other Information (inc APFP Reg 6 info) 
APP-046 
7.1 Photographs and Photomontages 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
A4 
 
DOC REF 
 
TITLE 
APP-067 
Revised photomontage images submitted by Progress Power 
Limited 
APP-047 
7.2 Plan Identifying Locations of Photographs 
APP-048 
7.3 Index of Photographs 
APP-049 
9.1 Grid Connection Statement 
APP-050 
9.2 Gas Connection Statement 
APP-051 
10.1 Planning Statement 
APP-052 
10.2 Design and Access Statement 
APP-053 
10.3 Electrical Connection Siting Report 
APP-054 
10.4 Statement of Proposed Heads of Terms for an Agreement 
Pursuant to s106 of the TCPA 1990 
APP-055 
10.5 Ecological Management Strategy 
APP-056 
10.6 Landscape Mitigation Strategy 
APP-068 
Draft s.106 agreement between Progress Power Limited, Suffolk 
County and Mid Suffolk District Counties, Harry Charles More and 
Elizabeth Moore 
APP-073 
Draft s.106 agreement between Progress Power Limited, Suffolk 
County and Mid Suffolk District Counties, Harry Charles More and 
Elizabeth Moore (v2.0) 
APP-074 
Draft s.106 agreement between Progress Power Limited, Suffolk 
County and Mid Suffolk District Counties, Harry Charles More and 
Elizabeth Moore (v2.0. track changed) 
APP-075 
Draft s.106 agreement between Progress Power Limited, Suffolk 
County and Mid Suffolk District Councils, Harry Charles More and 
Elizabeth Moore (v3.0).pdf 
APP-119 
Cover Letter for s.106 Agreement 
APP-120 
s.106 agreement between PPL, Suffolk County and Mid Suffolk 
District Councils, Harry Charles Moore and Elizabeth Moore  
  
Post submission changes 
APP-063 
Cover letter for submission submitted 16 July 2014 
APP-064 
ES Clarificatory and Errata Document 
 
Procedural Decisions (DEC) 
 
DEC-001 
Notification of Decision to Accept Application 
DEC-002 
ProgressPower Section 55 Acceptance of Applications Checklist VG 
v 3 (1) 
DEC-003 
Section 56, 59, regulation 13 certificates 
DEC-004 
Progress Power Rule 6 Letter 
DEC-005 
Letter to Mr Andrew Stafford re IP status dated 3rd July 2014 
DEC-006 
Rule 8 letter 
DEC-007 
Examining Authority's First Round of Written Questions 
DEC-008 
Notification of Hearings and Site Visit 
DEC-009 
Notice of Hearing and Site Visit Agendas for 14-17 October 2014 
DEC-010 
Reference not used 
DEC-011 
Notice of hearings and second round of questions 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
A5 
 
DOC REF 
 
TITLE 
DEC-012 
Changes to the Original Application 
DEC-013 
Notification of Completion of Examination Authority's examination. 
 
Relevant Representations (RR) 
 
RR-001 
Brome and Oakley Parish Council 
RR-002 
Terry Keeley 
RR-003 
Nicolette Hallett 
RR-004 
Ms Penelope Jane Lucas 
RR-005 
Mervyn Barker 
RR-006 
Roy McDonald 
RR-007 
Mrs S McLean 
RR-008 
Neil Weston 
RR-009 
Stephen Jacobs 
RR-010 
Tracey Jacobs 
RR-011 
CivilAviation Authority 
RR-012 
Michael Drew 
RR-013 
Peter Scott 
RR-014 
Tracey Simonds 
RR-015 
Tom Tierney 
RR-016 
Ken Williamson 
RR-017 
Philip Jacobs 
RR-018 
John Farley 
RR-019 
Anglian Water Services 
RR-020 
Mrs Talbot 
RR-021 
East of England Energy Group (EEEGR) 
RR-022 
Stephen Schwarz 
RR-023 
Hayley Talbot 
RR-024 
Norfolk County Council 
RR-025 
Debbie Hawes 
RR-026 
Thornham Parva Parish Meeting 
RR-027 
L Speak 
RR-028 
Carol Winmill 
RR-029 
Louise Clifford 
RR-030 
Mrs Beryl Morrison 
RR-031 
Sandra Smith 
RR-032 
Phil Butler 
RR-033 
Dr Geoffrey Hazlewood 
RR-034 
P G Messer 
RR-035 
James Fawcett 
RR-036 
Vanessa Maguire 
RR-037 
Mrs K Denby 
RR-038 
Diana Kearsley 
RR-039 
Arqiva Limited 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
A6 
 
DOC REF 
 
TITLE 
RR-040 
Pauline Smith 
RR-041 
Yaxley Parish Council 
RR-042 
Caroline Drew 
RR-043 
Geoffrey Randall 
RR-044 
Ben Hall 
RR-045 
Common Concern 
RR-046 
Simon Durant 
RR-047 
David Williamson 
RR-048 
Mary Maidment 
RR-049 
Mrs Sue Wade 
RR-050 
Mr Paul Dye 
RR-051 
Thornham Magna Village Meeting 
RR-052 
Jonathan Crabb 
RR-053 
South Norfolk Council 
RR-054 
Triodos Renewables (Eye) Limited 
RR-055 
Eye Town Council 
RR-056 
Angela Lee 
RR-057 
Brian Guthrie 
RR-058 
Mr David John Prior 
RR-059 
British Horse Society (BHS) 
RR-060 
John Benjamin Harvey Box 
RR-061 
Margaret Elizabeth Oliver 
RR-062 
Ursula Halton 
RR-063 
Christopher Aldous 
RR-064 
Mrs Penny Bullock 
RR-065 
Suffolk Preservation Society 
RR-066 
Thrandeston Parish Council 
RR-067 
John Musgrave 
RR-068 
Suffolk Wildlife Trust 
RR-069 
Mr A.W. Melbourne 
RR-070 
Andrew Fox 
RR-071 
Simon J Cairns 
RR-072 
C A Schwarz 
RR-073 
Jessica Fleming 
RR-074 
Lorraine Rees 
RR-075 
Natural England 
RR-076 
Suffolk County Council 
RR-077 
Neil Luckett 
RR-078 
Sarah Cameron 
RR-079 
Mandy Bray 
RR-080 
Gordon Clark 
RR-081 
Rebecca Clark 
RR-082 
Guy McGregor 
RR-083 
Neil Roberts 
RR-084 
Margaret Williamson 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
A7 
 
DOC REF 
 
TITLE 
RR-085 
English Heritage 
RR-086 
Simon Johnson 
RR-087 
Paul Read 
RR-088 
Mrs Alison Johnson 
RR-089 
Mid Suffolk District Council  
RR-090 
Frances Beasley 
RR-091 
Bridget Bloom 
RR-092 
Josephine Beedell 
RR-093 
Mr TM Russell 
RR-094 
National Grid Gas Plc and National Grid Electricity Transmission Plc  
RR-095 
Mr Richard Bulock 
RR-096 
Palgrave Parish Council  
RR-097 
P D Hammond & Sons 
RR-098 
Gordon and David Talbot 
RR-099 
Public Health England 
RR-100 
Mellis Parish Council 
RR-101 
Mr M Spence 
RR-102 
Transam Trucking Limited  
RR-103 
Gillian Russell 
RR-104 
Alex Grinsted 
RR-105 
David Burn 
RR-106 
John Shaw 
RR-107 
Tobar Group Trading Limited  
RR-108 
Environment Agency 
 
Representations (REP) 
 
  
Adequacy of Consultation Responses 
REP-001 
Adequacy of Consultation response from Norfolk County Council 
REP-002 
Adequacy of Consultation response from South Norfolk Council 
REP-003 
Adequacy of Consultation response from Breckland Council 
REP-004 
Adequacy of Consultation response from Essex County Council 
REP-005 
Adequacy of Consultation response from Ipswich Borough Council 
REP-006 
Adequacy of Consultation response from Waveney and Suffolk 
Coastal District Councils 
REP-007 
Adequacy of Consultation response from the Broads Authority 
REP-008 
Adequacy of Consultation response from Suffolk County Council 
and Mid Suffolk District Council 
  
Written Representation 
REP-009 
Written representation by the Civil Aviation Authority 
REP-010 
Written representation by Mike Drew 
REP-011 
Written representation by John Farley 
REP-012 
Written representation by Neil Luckett 
REP-013 
Written representation by British Horse Society 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
A8 
 
DOC REF 
 
TITLE 
REP-014 
Written representation by Penny Bullock 
REP-015 
Written representation by Steven Jacobs 
REP-016 
Written representation by Triodos Renewables (Eye) Limited 
REP-017 
Written representation by Philip Butler 
REP-018 
Summary of written representation by Philip Butler 
REP-019 
Written representation by Suffolk Preservation Society 
REP-020 
Summary of Written representation by Suffolk Preservation 
Society 
REP-021 
Written representation by Common Concern 
REP-022 
Summary of written representation by Common Concern 
REP-023 
Written representation by Hayley Talbot 
REP-024 
Written representation by Tracey Jacobs 
REP-025 
Written representation by English Heritage 
REP-026 
Summary of written representation by English Heritage 
REP-027 
Written representation by Mellis Parish Council 
REP-028 
Written representation by Mathew Spence 
REP-029 
Joint written representation by Mid Suffolk District Council and 
Suffolk County Council 
REP-030 
Written representation by Eleanor Havers on behalf of Gordon and 
David Talbot - Withdrawn 
REP-031 
Written representation by Eye Airfield Parishes Working Group 
REP-032 
Summary of written representation by Eye Airfield Parishes 
Working Group 
REP-033 
Written representation by Brian Guthrie 
REP-034 
Written representation by Berwin Leighton Paisner on behalf of 
Energy Power Resources Limited and EPR Eye Limited - Withdrawn 
REP-035 
Written representation by Simon Cairns 
REP-036 
Written Representation by David Burn 
REP-037 
Written representation by National Grid Electricity Transmissions - 
Partly withdrawn 
REP-038 
Written representation by National Grid gas - Withdrawn 
REP-039 
Summary of written representation by National Grid Electricity 
Transmissions - Partly withdrawn 
REP-040 
Late written representation by Eleanor Havers on Behalf of Paul 
and Eileen Hammond, David Hammond and Richard Hammond - 
Withdrawn 
  
First round of questions 
REP-041 
Responses to first round of questions by Environment Agency 
REP-042 
Responses to first round of questions by Progress Power Limited 
REP-043 
Joint response to first round of questions by Mid Suffolk District 
Council and Suffolk County Council 
REP-044 
Responses to first round of questions by National Grid Electricity 
Transmissions - Partly withdrawn 
REP-045 
First round of question responses by National Grid gas - 
Withdrawn 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
A9 
 
DOC REF 
 
TITLE 
  
Statements of Common Ground   
REP-046 
Statement of Common Ground between Progress Power limited 
and National Grid Electricity Grid - Partly withdrawn 
REP-047 
Statement of Common Ground between Progress Power limited 
and National Grid Gas - Withdrawn 
REP-048 
Statement of Common Ground between Progress Power limited 
and Environment Agency 
REP-049 
Statement of Common Ground between Progress Power limited 
and Natural England 
REP-050 
Statement of Common Ground between Progress Power limited 
and Suffolk County Council and Mid Suffolk District Council. 
Submitted for deadline II 
REP-071 
Updated Statement of Common Ground between Progress Power 
Ltd and National Grid Gas - Withdrawn 
REP-072 
Updated Statement of Common Ground between Progress Power 
Ltd and National Grid Electricity Transmission - Partly withdrawn 
REP-073 
Updated Statement of Common Ground between Progress Power 
Limited, Suffolk County Council and Mid Suffolk District Council, 
including annexes. Submitted for deadline IV 
REP-089 
Updated Statement of Common Ground between the Applicant, 
Suffolk County Council and Mid Suffolk District Council, including 
annexes. Submitted for deadline V 
REP-094 
Updated Statement of Common Ground between the Applicant, 
Suffolk County Council and Mid Suffolk District Council. Submitted 
for deadline VI 
REP-097 
Updated Statement of Common Ground between Progress Power 
Limited, Suffolk County and Mid Suffolk District Council submitted 
at deadline VII 
REP-106 
Updated Statement of Common Ground between Progress Power 
Limited, Suffolk County Council and Mid Suffolk District submitted 
for deadline VIII 
  
Local Impact reports 
REP-051 
Joint Local Impact Report by Mid Suffolk District Council and 
Suffolk County Council 
  
Comments on relevant representations   
REP-052 
Comments on relevant representations by Progress Power Limited 
REP-053 
Comments on relevant representations by National Grid Electricity 
Transmissions - Partly withdrawn 
  
Comments on written representations   
REP-063 
Comments on Written Representations by Progress Power Limited 
  
Comments on Local Impact Reports and Statement of 
Common Ground 
REP-055 
Comments on Local Impact Report and Statement of Common 
Ground by Progress Power 
REP-056 
Comments on Local Impact Report, Annexes A-G by Progress 
Power 
REP-057 
Comments on Local Impact Report, Annex H by Progress Power  
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
A10 
 
DOC REF 
 
TITLE 
  
Other Comments 
REP-058 
Response to comments on relevant representation by Mervyn 
Barker.pdf 
REP-059 
Comments on documents revived for deadline 2 by Phil Butler 
REP-060 
Comments on documents submitted for deadline 2 by Common 
Concern 
REP-061 
Comments by Mid Suffolk District Council and Suffolk County 
Council on documents submitted for deadline 2 
REP-062 
Comments by Mid Suffolk District Council and Suffolk County 
Council on the Report on the Possible Date and Potential 
Significance of Co-axial Field System Boundaries at Eye and 
Yaxley, Suffolk 
REP-067 
Simon J Cairns comments on documents submitted prior to 
Deadline 5 
REP-068 
Suffolk County Council and Mid Suffolk District Council comments 
on submission prior to deadline 5 
REP-070 
Progress Power Limited's comments on documents submitted prior 
to Deadline 5.pdf 
REP-084 
Applicant’s comments on other parties Deadline 5 submissions 
REP-085 
Comments on responses to ExA’s second round of questions and 
any further Statements of Common Ground from Suffolk County 
Council and Mid Suffolk District Council 
REP-086 
Comments on responses to ExA’s second round of written 
questions and any further Statements of Common Ground by Cllr. 
Jessica Fleming 
REP-087 
Comments on responses to ExA’s second round of written 
questions by Common Concern 
REP-088 
Comments on responses to ExAs second round of written 
questions and any further Statements of Common Ground by Phil 
butler 
REP-096 
Progress Power Limited - Comments on Deadline 6 Submissions 
REP-104 
Progress Powers Limited's Response to other parties' Deadline 7 
submissions 
REP-105 
Environment Agency's comments received for deadline 8 
  
EIA   
REP-054 
No significant effects report screening matrices 
  
Correspondence 
REP-064 
Reference not used 
REP-065 
The Examining Inspector’s response to Eye Airfield Parishes 
Working Group's letter dated 14 November 2014 
REP-081 
Withdrawal of all representations in respect of the DCO application 
from National Grid Gas 
REP-082 
Withdrawal of all representations in respect of the proposed 
compulsory acquisition of its interests from National Grid 
Electricity Transmission plc 
REP-090 
Response to Eye Airfield Parishes Working Group dated 14 
November 2014 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
A11 
 
DOC REF 
 
TITLE 
REP-091 
Reference not used 
REP-092 
Withdrawal of all representations in respect of the DCO application 
from National Grid Gas 
REP-093 
Reference not used 
REP-098 
Energy Power Resources Limited withdrawal of objections to the 
application 
REP-099 
EPR Eye Limited withdrawal of objections to the application 
REP-100 
George and David Talbot - Withdrawal of submissions 
REP-101 
Withdrawal of David, Paul, Richard and Eileen Hammond's 
submissions 
REP-102 
Daniel Poulter MP - Other submission 
REP-103 
Response to Daniel Poulter MP letter dated 12 January 2015 
REP-107 
Eye Wind Power Limited – Withdrawal of representations 
REP-108 
Tobar group Trading Limited – Withdrawal of representations 
REP-109 
Transam Trucking Limited – Withdrawal of representations 
  
Second round of questions 
REP-066 
English Heritage – Response to second round of questions.pdf 
REP-069 
Responses to second round of questions by Progress Power 
Limited 
REP-074 
Environment Agency – Response to second round of questions 
REP-075 
Phil Butler  Response to second round of questions.pdf 
REP-076 
Suffolk Preservation Society responses to second round of 
questions and comments on written summary by Progress Power 
Ltd.pdf 
REP-077 
Eye Airfield Parishes Working Group - Responses to second round 
of questions and additional submissions.pdf 
REP-078 
Joint response to second round of questions by Suffolk County 
Council and Mid Suffolk District Council 
REP-079 
National Grid Electricity Transmission PLC - Responses to second 
round of questions and comments on written summaries - Partly 
withdrawn 
REP-080 
Common Concern - responses to second round of questions.pdf 
  
Other Documents 
REP-083 
Re-assessment of Co-axial Field System Boundaries by Dr Adrian 
M. Chadwick 
  
Report on Implication on European Sites 
REP-095 
Report on the Implications for European Sites (RIES) 
 
Hearings (HR) 
 
  
Preliminary Meeting held on 24 July 2014 
HR-001 
Letter to Progress Power Ltd and Hirwaun Power Ltd re Preliminary 
Meeting dates 
HR-002 
Watt Power Ltd letter to PINS re Preliminary Meeting 30 06 14 
HR-003 
Note of the Preliminary Meeting 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
A12 
 
DOC REF 
 
TITLE 
HR-004 
Part 1 of the Preliminary Meeting Audio 
HR-005 
Part 2 of the Preliminary Meeting Audio 
HR-006 
PM request from Brian Guthrie 
HR-007 
PM request from Bridget Bloom 
HR-008 
PM request from Brome and Oakley Parish Council 
HR-009 
PM request from Chris Aldous 
HR-010 
PM request from David Burn 
HR-011 
PM request from Eye Town Council 
HR-012 
PM request from John Farley 
HR-013 
PM request from Mellis Parish Council 
HR-014 
PM request from Mrs Speak 
HR-015 
PM request from Ms Anna Eastgate on behalf of National Grid Gas 
Plc and National Grid Electricity Transmission plc - Partly 
withdrawn 
HR-016 
PM request from Naomi Sunkin on behalf of Tobar Group Trading 
Limited and Transam Trucking Limited 
HR-017 
PM request from Palgrave Parish Council 
HR-018 
PM request from Paul Read 
HR-019 
PM request from Thrandeston Parish Council 
HR-020 
PM request from Yaxley Parish Council 
  
Open Floor Hearing held on 15 October 2014 
HR-021 
Reference not used 
HR-023 
Written summary of Common Concern’s Oral representation given 
at the open floor hearing 
HR-024 
Audio recording of the Open Floor Hearing held at 2.00pm on 
Wednesday 15 October 2014 
HR-025 
Audio recording of the Open Floor Hearing held at 6.00pm on 
Wednesday 15 October 2014 
HR-022 
Written summary of Phil Butler’s Oral representation given at the 
open floor hearing 
HR-035 
Written summary of Suffolk County Council’s Oral representation 
given at the Issue Specific & Open Floor Hearings 
HR-037 
Written summary of Cllr. Fleming’s Oral representation given at 
the Open Floor Hearings on behalf of Suffolk County Council - 
Hartismere Division 
HR-038 
Reference not used 
HR-039 
Written summary of Palgrave Parish Council's Oral representation 
given at the open floor hearing 
  
Issue Specific Hearing held on 16-17 October 2014 
HR-026 
Audio recording of the Issue Specific Hearing held on Thursday 16 
October 2014 - Part 1 
HR-027 
Audio recording of the Issue Specific Hearing held on Thursday 16 
October 2014 - Part 2 
HR-028 
Audio recording of the Issue Specific Hearing held on Thursday 16 
October 2014 - Part 3 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
A13 
 
DOC REF 
 
TITLE 
HR-029 
Audio recording of the Issue Specific Hearing held on Thursday 16 
October 2014 - Part 4 
HR-030 
Audio recording of the Issue Specific Hearing held on Friday 17 
October 2014 - Part 1 
HR-031 
Audio recording of the Issue Specific Hearing held on Friday 17 
October 2014 - Part 2 
HR-032 
Audio recording of the Issue Specific Hearing held on Friday 17 
October 2014 - Part 3 
HR-033 
Eye Airfield Parishes Working Group - Statement presented at 
Issue-specific Hearing, 16-Oct-14 
HR-034 
National Grid Electricity Transmission Plc - Statement presented at 
Issue-specific Hearing, 16-Oct-14 - Partly withdrawn 
HR-035 
Written summary of Suffolk County Council’s Oral representation 
given at the Issue Specific & Open Floor Hearings 
HR-036 
Written summary of Progress Power Limited's Oral representation 
given at the Issue Specific Hearings, including appendices 
  
Compulsory Acquisition Hearing held on 9 Dcember 2014 
HR-040 
Audio recording of the  Compulsory Acquisition Hearing held on 9 
December 2014 
 
Issue Specific Hearing held on 10-11 December 2014 
HR-041 
Notice of Hearing Agenda for 10 – 11 December 2014 
HR-042 
Revised Notice of Hearing Agenda for 10 - 11 December 2014 
HR-044 
Audio recording of the Issue Specific Hearing held on 10 
December 2014 - Part 1 
HR-045 
Audio recording of the Issue Specific Hearing held on 10 
December 2014 - Part 2 
HR-046 
Audio recording of the Issue Specific Hearing held on 10 
December 2014 - Part 3 
HR-047 
Audio recording of the Issue Specific Hearing held on 10 
December 2014 - Part 4 
HR-048 
Audio recording of the Issue Specific Hearing held on 11 
December 2014  
HR-043 
Written summary of Suffolk Preservation Society oral 
representation given on 10 December 2014 
HR-049 
Progress Power Limited - Written summary of oral representations 
made at hearings of 9, 10 and 11 December 2014 
HR-050 
Progress Power Limited - Cultural Heritage Mitigation Table with 
coverage 
HR-051 
Progress Power Limited - Field Boundary Photographs presented at 
Second Issue Specific Hearings 
HR-052 
Progress Power Limited - Important Hedgerow Plan (Rev. 1.0) 
HR-053 
Progress Power Limited - Important Hedgerow Plan - GIS Variant 
(Rev. 1.0) 
HR-054 
Progress Power Limited - Important Hedgerow Plan - Refined 
Application (Rev. 2.0) 
HR-055 
Progress Power Limited - Protected Field Boundary Plans 
presented at Second Issue Specific Hearing 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
A14 
 
DOC REF 
 
TITLE 
HR-056 
Progress Power Limited - Second Issue Specific Hearings Witness 
CV Booklet 
HR-057 
Written summary of Eye Airfield Parishes Working Group 
representations 
HR-058 
Written summary of Suffolk County Council and Mid Suffolk 
District Council representations 
HR-059 
Written summary of National Grid Electricity Transmission Plc’s 
Oral representation given 11 December 2014 
HR-060 
Progress Power - Update to annex 1 of their hearing summary 
dated 9, 10 and 11 December 2014 
 
Project Documents (PD) 
 
PD-001 
Scoping Report 
PD-002 
Progress Power Station Scoping Opinion 
PD-003 
Essex & Suffolk Water Late Response 
PD-004 
Norfolk County Council Late Response 
PD-005 
Highways Agency Late Response 
PD-006 
Reference not used 
PD-007 
Reg 9 Replacement List 
PD-008 
Progress Power Transboundary Rescreening Matrix 
 
Additional Submissions (AS) 
 
AS-001 
Late submission by Nigel Highfell 
AS-002 
Additional Submission by BLP Law on behalf of Energy Power 
Resources Limited & EPR Eye Limited - Withdrawn 
AS-003 
Additional Submission by Progress Power Limited regarding the 
Examination Timetable - 25 July 2014 
AS-004 
Additional representation by Elizabeth Speak concerning the site 
visit 
AS-005 
Progress Power Limited's cover letter for deadline 2.  
AS-006 
Progress Power Limited’s comments relating to the site visit 
AS-007 
Reference not used 
AS-008 
Other Submission by the Prehistoric Society 
AS-009 
Viewpoints suggested by Philip Butler 
AS-010 
Viewpoints suggested by Palgrave Parish Council 
AS-011 
Viewpoints suggested by Common Concern 
AS-012 
Additional representation by Progress Power Limited, National Grid 
Gas and National Grid Electricity Transmission regarding the Grid 
and Gas Connection - Partly withdrawn 
AS-013 
Progress Power Limited's cover letter for deadline 3 
AS-014 
Plan over Potentially Important Hedgerows by Progress Power 
Limited 
AS-015 
Report into the use of the term Species Poor in the Environmental 
Statement by Eye Airfield Parishes Working Group 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
A15 
 
DOC REF 
 
TITLE 
AS-016 
Questions from the Eye Airfield Parishes Working Group relating to 
the hearing scheduled for 16 October 2014 
AS-017 
Additional submission from Mr Farley, submitted at the open floor 
hearing on 15 October 2014 
AS-018 
Applicant's cover letter for deadline 4 
AS-019 
Submission by Eye Airfield Parishes Working Group requesting a 
Regulation 17 Direction 
AS-020 
Progress Power Limited's errata sheet for the submission 
submitted for deadline 3 (2 October 2014) 
AS-021 
Progress Power Limited's response to Eye Airfield Parishes 
Working Group's letter dated 12 October 2014 
AS-022 
Correspondence relating to Regulation 17 of the Infrastructure 
Planning EIA 
Regulations 2009. This submission also contains Progress Power 
Limited’s response to the Eye Airfield Parishes Working Group 
submission dated 2 October 2014 
AS-023 
Progress Power Limited’s Response to Regulation 17 Direction 
AS-024 
British Horse Society – Guidance for construction near routes used 
by horses 
AS-025 
Other submission by the Prehistoric Society accepted into the 
examination on 7 November 2014 
AS-026 
Additional Submission from Progress Power Limited on Power 
Generation Plant Design & Transformers.pdf 
AS-027 
Progress Power Limited's cover letter for deadline 5 
AS-028 
Additional Representation received for deadline 6 by Eye Airfield 
Parishes Working Group 
AS-029 
Applicant’s cover letter for deadline 6 
AS-030 
Draft Design Principles Statement submitted by the Applicant for 
deadline 6 
AS-031 
Reference not used 
AS-032 
Energy Power Resources Limited and EPR Eye Limited - agreement 
reached with Progress Power - Withdrawn 
AS-033 
Eye Wind Power submission regarding protection of rights - 
Withdrawn 
AS-034 
Potentially Important Hedgerow Plan - Refined Application 
AS-035 
Potentially Important Hedgerow Plan - GIS Variant 
AS-036 
Progress Power cover letter for deadline 6 (late submissions) 
AS-037 
Progress Power Limited - Field Boundaries (AIS variant) 
AS-038 
Progress Power Limited - Field Boundaries (GIS variant) 
AS-039 
Progress Power Limited - Cover Letter for deadline 7 
AS-040 
Progress Power Limited's cover letter regarding updates to the 
deadline 7 submissions 
AS-041 
Progress Power limited – Deadline 8 cover letter 
AS-042 
Deadline 8 Submission from Cllr. Jessica Fleming 
AS-043 
Deadline 8 submission from Eye Airfield Parishes Working Group 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
A16 
 
DOC REF 
 
TITLE 
AS-044 
Deadline 8 submission from Suffolk County Council and Mid 
Suffolk District Council 
AS-045 
Progress Power Limited - Errata sheet for deadline 6 
AS-046 
Progress Power Limited's second errata letter for the deadline 6 (5 
December 2014) 
AS-047 
John Farley - Authentication of Neolithic hand hoe 
 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
A17 
 
APPENDIX 2: EVENTS IN THE EXAMINATION 
 
The Table below lists the main ‘events’ occurring during the Examination 
and the main procedural decisions taken by the Examining Authority 
(ExA). 
 
Date 
 
Examination Event 
24 July 2014 
 
Preliminary Meeting and start of Examination 
 
4 August 2014 
 
Issue by the ExA of:  
 
Procedural decision under Rule 8 of the Infrastructure 
Planning (Examination Procedure) Rules 2010 made 
at and following the preliminary meeting. 
 
Examination timetable 
 
ExA first written questions and requests for 
Statements of Common Ground 
 
14 August 2014 
 
Deadline 1 
For the receipt of: 
 
Notification by statutory parties to inform the ExA of 
a wish to be considered as an interested party.  
 
Request or receipt of notification (using the 
prescribed form) by persons within certain categories 
of interests in the land of a wish to become an 
interested party 
 
4 September 2014 
Deadline 2 
For the receipt of: 
 
Comments on relevant representations (RRs) 
 
Summaries of all RRs exceeding 1500 words 
 
Written representations (WRs) by all interested 
parties 
 
Summaries of all WRs exceeding 1500 words 
 
LIR from any local authorities 
 
Statements of Common Ground requested by ExA  
 
Responses to ExA’s first written questions 
 
Notification of wish to speak at a compulsory 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
A18 
 
acquisition hearing 
 
Notification of wish to make oral representations at 
the first issue specific hearing on the local impact of 
the project 
 
Notification by interested parties of wish to be heard 
at an open floor hearing  
 
Notification by interested parties of wish to attend 
any accompanied site visits and any representations 
relating to locations to view at or near the site and in 
the surrounding area 
 
Comments on any other / additional submissions 
received prior to the preliminary meeting  
 
Submissions from interested parties recommending 
itinerary items for the accompanied site visit 
 
Any further information requested by the ExA for this 
deadline 
 
15 September 2014 
Notification by ExA of date, time and place for:  
 
First issue specific hearing to be held on the local 
impact of the project 
 
Any accompanied site visit(s)  
 
Any open-floor hearing 
 
2 October 2014 
 
Deadline 3 
For the receipt of: 
 
Comments on WRs and responses to comments on 
RRs 
 
Comments on LIRs 
 
Comments on Statements of Common Ground 
 
Comments on responses to ExA’s first written 
questions 
 
Revised DCO from the applicant 
 
Any further information requested by the ExA for this 
deadline 
 
14 October 2014 
Accompanied Site Visit 
 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
A19 
 
15 October 2014 
Open floor hearing 
 
16 October - 17 
October 2014 
Issue specific hearing on the local impact of the 
project, including the first draft DCO hearing 
 
24 October 2014 
 
Deadline 4 
For the receipt of: 
 
All post hearing documents (including any revised 
DCO from the applicant) 
 
Any updated Statements of Common Ground  
 
All written summaries of oral cases made at the 
open-floor and issue specific hearings 
  
Notification by interested parties of wish to make oral 
representations at the second issue specific hearing 
on the draft Development Consent Order (DCO) and 
any related LIR matters 
 
Any further information requested by the ExA for this 
deadline 
 
27 October 2014 
 
Issue by ExA of: 
 
ExA’s second round of written questions and any 
further request for Statements of Common Ground 
 
Notification by the ExA of the time and place for the 
second issue specific hearing relating to the draft 
DCO and any related LIR matters 
 
Notification by the ExA of the time and place for 
compulsory acquisition hearings 
 
17 November 2014 
Deadline 5 
For the receipt of: 
 
Responses to ExA’s second written questions and any 
further requests for Statements of Common Ground 
 
Comments on written summaries of case put at the 
first issue specific and open floor hearings  
 
2 December 2014 
Deadline 6 
For the receipt of:  
 
Comments on responses to ExA’s second round of 
written questions and any further Statements of 
Common Ground 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
A20 
 
 
9  December 2014 
 
 
Compulsory acquisition hearing 
10 December - 11 
December 2014 
Issue specific hearing including second DCO 
hearing and LIR issues   
 
15 December 2015 
Issue by ExA of:  
 
The Report on the Implications for European Sites 
(RIES) 
 
19 December 2014 
Deadline 7 
For the receipt of:  
 
Optional written summary of the case put orally at 
the issue specific hearing on draft DCO and any 
related LIR matters  
 
Optional written summary of the case put orally at 
compulsory acquisition and any other hearings held 
 
Any proposed amendments to the draft DCO 
 
13 January 2015 
Deadline 8 
For the receipt of:  
 
Comments on written summaries of case put at the 
second issue specific hearing, compulsory acquisition 
and any other hearings held 
 
Comments on any proposed amendments to the draft 
DCO 
 
Comments on the RIES 
 
16 January 2015 
Issue by ExA of: 
 
Decision relating to non-material changes to the 
application 
 
24 January 2015 
Deadline for close of examination 
 
The ExA is under a duty to complete the examination 
of the application by the end of the period of 6 
months beginning with the day after the close of the 
Preliminary Meeting 
 
 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
A21 
 
APPENDIX 3: LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS 
AIS 
 
 
Air Insulated Substation 
AGI 
 
 
Above Ground Installation 
AOD 
 
 
Above Ordnance Datum 
BAP 
 
 
Biodiversity Action Plan 
BAT 
 
 
Best Available Techniques  
CA 
 
 
Compulsory Acquisition 
CAH 
 
 
Compulsory Acquisition Hearing 
CCGT  
 
Combined Cycle Gas Turbine 
CCR 
 
 
Carbon Capture Ready 
CCR Regulations 
The Carbon Capture Readiness (Electricity  
 
 
 
Generating Stations) Regulations 2013 
CCS 
 
 
Carbon Capture and Storage 
CEMP  
 
Construction Environmental Management Plan 
CHP 
 
 
Combined Heat and Power  
CO 
 
 
Carbon Monoxide 
CO2 
 
 
Carbon Dioxide 
CTMP  
 
Construction Traffic Management Plan   
DAS 
 
 
Design and Access Statement 
dB 
 
 
Decibels 
DCO 
 
 
Development Consent Order 
DECC  
 
Department of Energy and Climate Change 
DEFRA  
 
Department for Environment, Food and Rural  
 
 
 
Affairs 
DMRB  
 
Design Manual for Roads and Bridges  
DPS 
 
 
Design Principles Statement  
EA 
 
 
Environment Agency 
EAPWG  
 
Eye Airfield Parishes Working Group 
ECC 
 
 
Electrical Connection Compound 
EH 
 
 
English Heritage  
EIA 
 
 
Environmental Impact Assessment 
EM 
 
 
Explanatory Memorandum  
EMF 
 
 
Electro-magnetic Fields  
EN-1 
 
 
The Overarching National Policy Statement for 
 
 
 
Energy  
EN-2 
 
 
National Policy Statement for Fossil Fuel Electricity 
 
 
 
Generating Infrastructure  
EN-4 
 
 
National Policy Statement for Gas Supply and Gas 
 
 
 
and Oil Pipelines 
EN-5   
 
National Policy Statement for Electricity Networks 
 
 
 
Infrastructure 
EP 
 
 
Environmental Permit 
EPR  
 
 
The Infrastructure Planning (Examination  
 
 
 
Procedure) Rules 2010 (as amended) 
ES 
 
 
Environmental Statement 
ExA 
 
 
Examination Authority 
FRA 
 
 
Flood Risk Assessment 
GCN 
 
 
Great Crested Newt 
GIS 
 
 
Gas Insulated Substation 
GLVIA  
 
Guidelines for Landscape and Visual Impact  
 
 
 
Assessment 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
A22 
 
GT 
 
 
Gas Turbine 
GVA 
 
 
Gross Value Added 
Ha 
 
 
Hectares 
HA 
 
 
Non-designated Historic Assets 
The Habitats   
Conservation of Habitats and Species   
       
Regulations 2010 
Regulations 2010 
   
HDD 
 
 
Horizontal Directional Drilling 
HGV 
 
 
Heavy Goods Vehicle  
ICNIRP  
 
International Commission on Non-Ionizing  
 
 
 
Radiation Protection 
IfA 
 
 
Institute for Archaeologists  
IGE 
 
 
Institute of Gas Engineers  
IPC 
 
 
Infrastructure Planning Commission 
IED 
 
 
Industrial Emissions Directive 2010/75/EU 
 
IP 
 
 
Interested Party 
ISH 
 
 
Issue Specific Hearing 
kV 
 
 
Kilovolt 
km 
 
 
Kilometre 
LB 
 
 
Listed Buildings 
LIR 
 
 
Local Impact Report 
LVIA 
 
 
Landscape and Visual Impact Assessment 
m 
 
 
Metre 
MITS 
 
 
Main Interconnected Transmission System 
MOC 
 
 
Minimum Offtake Connection 
MSDC  
 
Mid Suffolk County Council 
MW 
 
 
Megawatt 
MWe 
 
 
Megawatt electrical 
NCFL 
 
 
Noble Clean Fuels Limited 
NE 
 
 
Natural England 
NGET  
 
National Grid Electricity Transmission plc 
NGG 
 
 
National Grid Gas plc 
NNR 
 
 
National Nature Reserve 
NO2 
 
 
Nitrogen Dioxide 
NOx 
 
 
Nitrous Oxides 
NPPF 
 
 
National Planning Policy Framework  
NPS 
 
 
National Policy Statement 
NSER  
 
No Significant Effects Report 
NSIP 
 
 
Nationally Significant Infrastructure Project 
NSR 
 
 
Noise Sensitive Receptor 
NTS 
 
 
National Transmissions System 
OFH 
 
 
Open Floor Hearing 
HGV 
 
 
Heavy Goods Vehicles 
OHL 
 
 
Overhead Line 
PA 2008 
 
The Planning Act 2008 (as amended) 
PIG 
 
 
Pipelines Inspection Gauge 
PRoW  
 
Public Right of Way 
RGE 
 
 
Reciprocating Gas Engine 
RIES 
 
 
Report on the Implications for European Sites 
RoEP 
 
 
Rise of Earth Potential 
SAC 
 
 
Special Area of Conservation 
SCC 
 
 
Suffolk County Council 
SCGT  
 
Simple Cycle Gas Turbine 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
A23 
 
SF6 
 
 
Sulphur Hexafluoride gas 
SLA 
 
 
Special Landscape Areas 
SM 
 
 
Scheduled Monuments 
SoCG  
 
Statement of Common Ground 
SPA 
 
 
Special Protection Areas 
SPZ 
 
 
Ground Source Protection Zone 
Sq m 
 
 
Square Metres 
SSSI 
 
 
Site of Special Scientific Interest 
SUDS  
 
Sustainable Urban Drainage System 
VER 
 
 
Valued Ecological Receptor 
Wild Birds Directive 
Council Directive 79/409/EEC on the Conservation 
 
 
 
of Wild Birds  
WPL 
 
 
Watt Power Limited 
WSI 
 
 
Written Scheme of Investigation 
ZTV 
 
 
Zones of Theoretical Visibility 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
A24 
 
APPENDIX 4: RECOMMENDED DEVELOPMENT CONSENT 
ORDER  
 
Report to the Secretary of State for the  
Progress Power Station  
 
 
A25 
S T A T U T O R Y  I N S T R U M E N T S  
201* No. 
INFRASTRUCTURE PLANNING 
The Progress Power (Gas Fired Power Station) Order 
Made 
- 
- 
- 
- 
[***] 201[X] 
Laid before Parliament 
[***] 201[X] 
Coming into force - 
- 
[***] 201[X] 
CONTENTS 
PART 1 
PRELIMINARY 
 
1. 
Citation and commencement 
2. 
Interpretation 
 
PART 2 
PRINCIPAL POWERS 
 
3. 
Development consent etc. granted by the Order 
4. 
Maintenance of authorised development 
5. 
Operation of authorised development 
6. 
Benefit of the Order 
7. 
Consent to transfer benefit of the Order 
8. 
Guarantees in respect of payment of compensation 
9. 
Application and modification of legislative provisions 
 
PART 3 
STREETS 
 
10. 
Power to alter layout, etc., of streets 
11. 
Street works 
12. 
Construction and maintenance of new or altered means of access 
13. 
Temporary prohibition or restriction of use of streets 
14. 
Access to works 
15. 
Agreements with street authorities 
 
PART 4 
SUPPLEMENTAL POWERS 
 
16. 
Discharge of water 
17. 
Authority to survey and investigate the land 
18. 
Removal of human remains 
 
PART 5 
POWERS OF ACQUISITION 
 
19. 
Compulsory acquisition of land 
20. 
Statutory authority to override easements and other rights 
21. 
Time limit for exercise of authority to acquire land compulsorily 
22. 
Compulsory acquisition of rights etc. 
23. 
Private rights 
24. 
Application of the Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act 1981 
25. 
Acquisition of subsoil only 
26. 
Acquisition of part of certain properties 
27. 
Rights under or over streets 
28. 
Temporary use of land for carrying out the authorised development 
29. 
Temporary use of land for maintaining the authorised development 
30. 
Statutory undertakers 
31. 
Apparatus and rights of statutory undertakers in streets subject to temporary 
prohibition or restriction 
32. 
Recovery of costs of new connections 
 
PART 6 
OPERATIONS 
 
33. 
Felling or lopping of trees and removal of hedgerows 
 
PART 7 
MISCELLANEOUS AND GENERAL 
 
34. 
Application of landlord and tenant law 
35. 
Cases in which land is to be treated as not being operational land 
36. 
Defence to proceedings in respect of statutory nuisance 
37. 
Protective provisions 
38. 
Certification of plans etc 
39. 
Service of notices 
40. 
Procedure in relation to certain approvals etc 
41. 
Arbitration 
 
 
SCHEDULE 1 — AUTHORISED DEVELOPMENT 
 
SCHEDULE 2 — REQUIREMENTS 
 
SCHEDULE 3 — STREETS SUBJECT TO PERMANENT AND TEMPORARY 
ALTERATION OF LAYOUT 
 
PART 1 — PERMANENT ALTERATION OF LAYOUT 
 
PART 2 — TEMPORARY ALTERATION OF LAYOUT 
 
SCHEDULE 4 — STREETS SUBJECT TO STREET WORKS 
 
2 
 
SCHEDULE 5 — TEMPORARY PROHIBITION OR RESTRICTION OF THE 
USE OF STREETS 
 
SCHEDULE 6 — ACCESS 
 
PART 1 — THOSE PARTS OF THE ACCESSES TO BE MAINTAINED 
AT THE PUBLIC EXPENSE 
 
PART 2 — THOSE PARTS OF THE ACCESSES TO BE MAINTAINED 
BY THE STREET AUTHORITY 
 
PART 3 — THOSE WORKS TO RESTORE TEMPORARY ACCESSES 
WHICH WILL BE MAINTAINED BY THE STREET 
AUTHORITY 
 
SCHEDULE 7 — MODIFICATION OF COMPENSATION AND 
COMPULSORY PURCHASE ENACTMENTS FOR 
CREATION OF NEW RIGHTS 
 
SCHEDULE 8 — LAND OF WHICH TEMPORARY POSSESSION MAY BE 
TAKEN 
 
SCHEDULE 9 — PROTECTIVE PROVISIONS 
 
PART 1 — FOR THE PROTECTION OF NATIONAL GRID 
 
PART 2 — FOR THE PROTECTION OF ELECTRICITY, GAS, WATER 
AND SEWERAGE UNDERTAKERS 
 
PART 3 — FOR THE PROTECTION OF OPERATORS OF 
ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS CODE NETWORKS 
 
PART 4 — FOR THE PROTECTION OF EASTERN POWER 
NETWORKS 
 
SCHEDULE 10 — PROCEDURE FOR DISCHARGE OF REQUIREMENTS 
 
SCHEDULE 11 — REMOVAL OF IMPORTANT HEDGEROWS 
 
An application has been made to the Secretary of State in accordance with the Infrastructure 
Planning (Applications: Prescribed Forms and Procedure) Regulations 2009(a)for an Order under 
sections 114, 115, 120 and 140 of the Planning Act 2008(b) (“the 2008 Act”). 
The application was examined by  a single appointed person  (appointed by the Secretary of State 
in accordance with Chapter 4 of Part 6 of the 2008 Act and the Infrastructure Planning 
(Examination Procedure) Rules 2010(c). 
The single appointed person, having considered the representations made and not withdrawn and 
the application together with the accompanying documents has submitted a report and 
recommendation to the Secretary of State. 
The Secretary of State, having considered the report and recommendation  of the single appointed 
person, and decided the application, has determined to make an Order giving effect to the 
proposals comprised in the application with modifications which in the opinion of the Secretary of 
State do not make any substantial change to the proposals. 
The Secretary of State, in exercise of the powers conferred by sections 114, 115, 120 and 140 of 
the 2008 Act, makes the following Order— 
(a) .I. 2009/2264 as amended by the Localism Act 2011 (Infrastructure Planning) (Consequential Amendments) Regulations 
2012 (S.I. 2012/635) and the Infrastructure Planning (Prescribed Consultees and Interested Parties etc) (Amendment) 
Regulations 2013 (S.I. 2013/522). There are other amendments to the Regulations which are not relevant to this Order. 
(b) 2008 c.29. Parts 1 to 7 were amended by Chapter 6 of Part 6 of, and Schedule 13 to, the Localism Act 2011 (c.20), and by 
sections 22 to 27 of the Growth and Infrastructure Act 2013 (c.27), see S.I. 2013/1124 for transitional provisions. 
(c) S.I. 2010/103, as amended by S.I. 2012/635. 
 
3 
                                                                                                                                            
PART 1 
PRELIMINARY 
Citation and commencement 
1. This Order may be cited as the Progress Power (Gas Fired Power Station) Order 201[X] and 
comes into force on [X] 201[X]. 
Interpretation 
2.—(1) In this Order— 
“the 1961 Act” means the Land Compensation Act 1961(a); 
“the 1965 Act” means the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965(b); 
“the 1980 Act” means the Highways Act 1980(c); 
“the 1990 Act” means the Town and Country Planning Act 1990(d); 
“the 1991 Act” means the New Roads and Street Works Act 1991(e); 
“the 2008 Act” means the Planning Act 2008; 
“address” includes any number or address used for the purposes of electronic transmission; 
“AOD” means above ordnance datum; 
“apparatus” has the same meaning as in Part 3 of the 1991 Act; 
“authorised development” means the development and associated development described in 
Schedule 1 (authorised development) which is development within the meaning of section 32 
of the 2008 Act; 
(a) 1961 c.33. There are amendments to the 1961 Act which are not relevant to this Order. 
(b) 1965 c.56. Section 3 was amended by section 70 of, and paragraph 3 of Schedule 15 to, the Planning and Compensation Act 
1991 (c.34). Section 4 was amended by section 3 of, and Part 1 of Schedule 1 to, the Housing (Consequential Provisions) 
Act 1985 (c.71). Section 5 was amended by sections 67 and 80 of, and Part 2 of Schedule 18 to, the Planning and 
Compensation Act 1991. Section 11(1) and sections 3, 31 and 32 were amended by section 34(1) of, and Schedule 4 to, the 
Acquisition of Land Act 1981 (c. 67) and by section 14 of, and paragraph 12(1) of Schedule 5 to, the Church of England 
(Miscellaneous Provisions) Measure 2006 (2006 No. 1). Section 12 was amended by section 56(2) of, and Part 1 to 
Schedule 9 to, the Courts Act 1971 (c.23). Section 13 was amended by section 139 of the Tribunals, Courts and 
Enforcement Act 2007 (c.15). Section 20 was amended by section 70 of, and paragraph 14 of Schedule 15 to, the Planning 
and Compensation Act 1991. Sections 9, 25 and 29 were amended by the Statute Law (Repeals) Act 1973 (c.39). Section 31 
was also amended by section 70 of, and paragraph 19 of Schedule 15 to, the Planning and Compensation Act 1991 and by 
section 14 of, and paragraph 12(2) of Schedule 5 to, the Church of England (Miscellaneous Provisions) Measure 2006. 
There are other amendments to the 1965 Act which are not relevant to this Order. 
(c) 1980 c.66. Section 1(1) was amended by section 21(2) of the New Roads and Street Works Act 1991 (c.22); sections 1(2), 
1(3) and 1(4) were amended by section 8 of, and paragraph (1) of Schedule 4 to, the Local Government Act 1985 (c.51); 
section 1(2A) was inserted, and section 1(3) was amended, by section 259(1), (2) and (3) of the Greater London Authority 
Act 1999 (c.29); sections 1(3A) and 1(5) were inserted by section 22(1) of, and paragraph 1 of Schedule 7 to, the Local 
Government (Wales) Act 1994 (c.19). Section 36(2) was amended by section 4(1) of, and paragraph 47(a) and (b) of 
Schedule 2 to, the Housing (Consequential Provisions) Act 1985 (c.71), by S.I. 2006/1177, by section 4 of, and paragraph 
45(3) of Schedule 2 to, the Planning (Consequential Provisions) Act 1990 (c.11), by section 64(1), (2) and (3) of the 
Transport and Works Act 1992 (c.42) and by section 57 of, and paragraph 5 of Part 1 of Schedule 6 to, the Countryside and 
Rights of Way Act 2000 (c.37); section 36(3A) was inserted by section 65(5) of the Transport and Works Act 1992 and was 
amended by S.I. 2006/1177; section 36(6) was amended by section 8 of, and paragraph 7 of Schedule 4 to, the Local 
Government Act 1985; and section 36(7) was inserted by section 22(1) of, and paragraph 4 of Schedule 7 to, the Local 
Government (Wales) Act 1994. Section 329 was amended by section 112(4) of, and Schedule 18 to, the Electricity Act 1989 
(c.29) and by section 190(3) of, and Part 1 of Schedule 27 to, the Water Act 1989 (c.15). There are other amendments to the 
1980 Act which are not relevant to this Order. 
(d) 1990 c.8. Section 206(1) was amended by section 192(8) of, and paragraphs 7 and 11 of Schedule 8 to, the Planning Act 
2008 (c.29) (date in force in relation to England: 6th April 2012: S.I. 2012/601). There are other amendments to the 1990 
Act which are not relevant to this Order. 
(e) 1991 c.22. Section 48(3A) was inserted by section 124 of the Local Transport Act 2008 (c.26). Sections 78(4), 80(4), and 
83(4) were amended by section 40 of, and Schedule 1 to, the Traffic Management Act 2004 (c.18). 
 
4 
                                                                                                                                            
“the book of reference” means the book of reference submitted as revision 1.0 dated 19 
December 2014 certified by the Secretary of State as the book of reference for the purposes of 
this Order; 
“building” includes any structure or erection or any part of a building, structure or erection; 
“carriageway” has the same meaning as in the 1980 Act; 
“commence” means the carrying out of a material operation, as defined in section 155 of the 
Planning Act 2008 (which explains where development begins), comprised in or carried out 
for the purposes of the authorised development and the words “commencement” and 
“commenced” and cognate expressions are to be construed accordingly; 
“compulsory acquisition notice” means a notice served in accordance with section 134 of the 
2008 Act; 
“date of final commissioning” means the date on which the authorised development 
commences operation by generating power on a commercial basis; 
“the design principles statement” means the design principles statement contained within the 
design and access statement at pages 39 to 43 (inclusive) submitted under regulation 5(2)(q) of 
the Infrastructure Planning (Applications: Prescribed Forms and Procedure) Regulations 2009 
together with the design principles document dated December 2014 (where there is conflict 
between the two documents, the design principles document of December 2014 shall prevail) 
and both certified as such by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order; 
“the ecological management strategy” means the outline ecological management strategy, 
submitted as revision 1.0 dated September 2014 and which is certified as such by the 
Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order; 
“electronic transmission” means a communication transmitted— 
(a) by means of an electronic communications network; or 
(b) by other means but while in electronic form; 
“the environmental statement” means the environmental statement submitted under regulation 
5(2)(a) of the Infrastructure Planning (Applications: Prescribed Forms and Procedure) 
Regulations 2009 and certified as such by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order 
updated as follows— 
(a) Appendix 4.A is superseded by the outline construction environment management plan; 
(b) Appendix 12.D is superseded by the outline construction traffic management plan; 
(c) Appendix 13.C is superseded by the stage 2 written scheme of archaeological 
investigation; 
“exhaust gas emission flue stack” means the exhaust gas emission flue stack excluding any 
ancillary support structures, sound proof cladding, and emissions monitoring platforms; 
“the flood risk assessment” means the flood risk assessment submitted as revision 0 dated 
December 2014 and certified as such by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order; 
“footpath” and “footway” have the same meaning as in the 1980 Act; 
“gas turbine generator” means either one or two gas turbines which drive a single electricity 
generator for the purposes of generating electricity; 
“gross rated electrical output” means the gross electrical power as measured at the generator 
terminals in accordance with standards agreed with the regulating authority under the 
Environmental Permitting (England and Wales) Regulations 2010(a) (as amended) or 
subsequent legislation. 
“highway” and “highway authority” have the same meaning as in the 1980 Act; 
(a) S.I. 2010/675, as amended by the Environmental Permitting (England and Wales) (Amendment) Regulations 2011 (S.I. 
2011/2043), the Environmental Permitting (England and Wales) (Amendment No. 2) Regulations 2011 (S.I. 2011/2933), 
the Environmental Permitting (England and Wales) (Amendment) Regulations 2012 (S.I. 2012/630), the Controlled Waste 
(England and Wales) Regulations 2012 (S.I. 2012/811). 
 
5 
                                                                                                                                            
“important hedgerow plan” means the important hedgerow plan submitted as revision 1.0 
dated December 2014 and certified as such by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this 
Order; 
“landscape mitigation strategy” means the interim landscape mitigation strategy submitted as 
revision 3.0 dated December 2014 and which is certified as such by the Secretary of State for 
the purposes of this Order; 
“the land plans” means the plans submitted as revision 0 dated December 2014 and certified as 
the land plans by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order; 
“limits of deviation” means, in respect of numbered works 1, 2, 3, 5 and 7 the outer limits of 
the corresponding numbered area shown on the works plans and, in respect of numbered 
works 4 and 6, the limits to either side of the corresponding numbered line shown on the 
works plans; 
“maintain” includes inspect, repair, adjust, alter, remove, refurbish, reconstruct, replace and 
improve to the extent that the same are unlikely to give rise to any materially new or 
materially different environmental effects from those identified in the environmental statement 
and “maintenance” and “maintaining” are to be construed accordingly; 
“National Grid” means National Grid Electricity Transmission plc (Company Registration 
Number 02366977) whose registered office is at 1 to 3 Strand, London, WE2N 5EH and/or 
National Grid Gas plc (Company Registration Number 02006000) whose registered office is 
at 1 to 3 Strand, London WC2N 5EH as the context requires; 
“Order land” means the land required for, or affected by, the proposed development shown on 
the land plans and described in the book of reference; 
“the Order limits” means the limits shown on figure 1 (sheet 1 and 2) of the works plans 
within which the authorised development may be carried out; 
“the outline construction environment management plan” means the outline construction 
environment management plan submitted as revision 0 dated December 2014 and which is 
certified as such by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order; 
“the outline construction traffic management plan” means the outline construction traffic 
management plan submitted as revision 0 dated December 2014 and which is certified as such 
by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order; 
“the outline landscaping plans” means the outline landscaping plans, submitted as revision 0 
and dated December 2014 and certified as such by the Secretary of State for the purposes of 
this Order; 
“the outline lighting strategy ” means the outline lighting strategy submitted as revision 0 
dated December 2014 and which is certified as such by the Secretary of State for the purposes 
of this Order; 
“owner”, in relation to land, has the same meaning as in section 7 of the Acquisition of Land 
Act 1981(a); 
“Progress Power Limited” means Progress Power Limited (Company No. 8190283) whose 
registered office is at 33 Cavendish Square, London W1G 0PW; 
“relevant planning authority” means the district planning authority for the area in which the 
land to which the provisions of this Order apply is situated and any relevant successor bodies; 
“requirements” means those matters set out in Schedule 2 to this Order; 
“rights of way, streets and access plan” means the plan submitted as revision 0 dated 
December 2014 and certified as the rights of way, streets and access plan by the Secretary of 
State for the purposes of this Order; 
(a) 1981 c.67. Section 7 was amended by section 70 of, and paragraph 9 of Schedule 15 to, the Planning and Compensation Act 
1991 (c.34). There are other amendments to the 1981 Act which are not relevant to this Order. 
 
6 
                                                                                                                                            
“stage 2 written scheme of archaeological investigation” means the stage 2 written scheme of 
archaeological investigation submitted as revision 0 dated December 2014 and certified as 
such by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order; 
“statutory undertaker” means any person falling within section 127(8) of the 2008 Act; 
“street” means a street within the meaning of section 48 of the 1991 Act, together with land on 
the verge of a street or between two carriageways, and includes any footpath and “street” 
includes any part of a street; 
“street authority”, in relation to a street, has the same meaning as in Part 3 of the 1991 Act; 
“travel plan” means the travel plan contained in appendix 12.E of the environmental statement 
setting out measures to promote sustainable transport during the construction phase and 
outline measures to propose sustainable transport during the operational phase of the 
authorised development; 
“the tribunal” means the Lands Chamber of the Upper Tribunal; 
“undertaker” means Progress Power Limited or the person who has the benefit of this Order in 
accordance with articles 6 and 7; 
“watercourse” includes all rivers, streams, ditches, drains, canals, cuts, culverts, dykes, 
sluices, sewers and passages through which water flows except a public sewer or drain; and 
“the works plans” means the works plans submitted as revision 0 and dated December 2014 
and certified as the works plans by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order. 
(2) References in this Order to rights over land include references to rights to do or to place and 
maintain anything in, on or under land or in the air-space above its surface and to any trusts or 
incidents (including restrictive covenants) to which the land is subject and references in this Order 
to the creation or acquisition of new rights include the imposition of restrictive covenants which 
interfere with interests or rights of another and are for the benefit of land which is acquired under 
this Order or is otherwise comprised in the Order. 
(3) All distances, directions and lengths referred to in this Order are approximate and distances 
between points on a work comprised in the authorised development are to be taken to be measured 
along that work. 
(4) All areas described in square metres in the book of reference are approximate. 
(5) References in this Order to numbered works are references to the works comprising the 
authorised development as numbered in Schedule 1 and shown on the works plans and a reference 
to numbered work 1 means 1A to 1D (inclusive) and a reference to numbered 3 means 3A and 3B 
(inclusive). 
(6) References in this Order to points identified by letters or numbers are to be construed as 
references to points so lettered or numbered on the rights of way, streets and access plan. 
(7) The expression “includes” is to be construed without limitation. 
 
PART 2 
PRINCIPAL POWERS 
Development consent etc. granted by the Order 
3.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Order and to the requirements, the undertaker is granted 
development consent for the authorised development to be carried out within the Order limits. 
(2) Subject to paragraph (3), each numbered work must be situated on the corresponding 
numbered line or numbered area shown on the works plans. 
(3) In constructing each numbered work, the undertaker may deviate from the corresponding 
numbered line shown on the works plans or within the corresponding numbered area(s) shown on 
the works plans up to the limits of deviation. 
 
7 
Maintenance of authorised development 
4.—(1) Except to the extent that this Order or an agreement made under this Order provides 
otherwise and subject to the provisions of this Order and to the requirements, the undertaker is 
authorised to and, subject to the requirements, may at any time maintain the authorised 
development. 
(2) This article only authorises the carrying out of maintenance works within the Order limits. 
Operation of authorised development 
5.—(1) The undertaker is authorised to use and operate the generating station comprised in the 
authorised development. 
(2) This article does not relieve the undertaker of any requirement to obtain any permit or 
licence or any obligation under any legislation that may be required to authorise the operation of a 
generating station. 
Benefit of the Order 
6.—(1) Section 156(1) of the 2008 Act applies to the grant of development consent by this 
Order. 
(2) Without prejudice to paragraph (1), in relation to numbered works 3 and 5 consent is granted 
by this Order for the benefit of the undertaker and National Grid; and 
(3) Without prejudice to paragraph (1), in relation to numbered work 7 consent is granted by this 
Order for the benefit of the undertaker and the highway authority. 
Consent to transfer benefit of the Order 
7.—(1) Subject to paragraph (4), the undertaker may— 
(a) transfer to another person (“the transferee”) any or all of the benefit of the provisions of 
this Order (including any of the numbered works) and such related statutory rights as may 
be agreed in writing between the undertaker and the transferee; or 
(b) grant to another person (“the lessee”) for a period agreed between the undertaker and the 
lessee any or all of the benefit of the provisions of this Order (including any of the 
numbered works) and such related statutory rights as may be so agreed. 
(2) Where an agreement has been made in accordance with paragraph (1) references in this 
Order to the undertaker include references to the transferee or the lessee. 
(3) The exercise by a person of any benefits or rights conferred in accordance with any transfer 
or grant under paragraph (1) is subject to the same restrictions, liabilities and obligations as would 
apply under this Order if those benefits or rights were exercised by the undertaker. 
(4) The consent of the Secretary of State is required for the exercise of the powers of paragraph 
(1) except where— 
(a) the transferee or lessee is a statutory undertaker; or 
(b) the time limits for all claims for compensation in respect of the acquisition of land or 
effects upon land under this Order have elapsed and— 
(i) no such claims have been made; 
(ii) any such claims that have been made have all been compromised or withdrawn; 
(iii) compensation has been paid in final settlement of all such claims; 
(iv) payment of compensation into court in lieu of settlement of all such claims has taken 
place; or 
(v) it has been determined by a tribunal or court of competent jurisdiction in respect of 
all claims that no compensation is payable. 
 
8 
Guarantees in respect of payment of compensation 
8.—(1) The undertaker must not begin to exercise the powers in articles 11 to 30, 32 and 33 of 
this Order in relation to any land unless it has first put in place either— 
(a) a guarantee in respect of the liabilities of the undertaker to pay compensation under this 
Order in respect of the exercise of the relevant power in relation to that land; or 
(b) an alternative form of security for that purpose which has been approved by the Secretary 
of State. 
(2) A guarantee or alternative form of security given in respect of any liability of the undertaker 
to pay compensation under the Order is to be treated as enforceable against the guarantor by any 
person to whom such compensation is payable and must be in such a form as to be capable of 
enforcement by such a person. 
Application and modification of legislative provisions 
9.—(1) Regulation 6 of the Hedgerows Regulations 1997(a) is to be modified so as to read for 
the purposes of this Order only as if there were inserted after paragraph (1)(j) the following— 
“(k) or for carrying out development which has been authorised by development consent 
made pursuant to the Planning Act 2008” 
PART 3 
STREETS 
Power to alter layout, etc., of streets 
10.—(1) The undertaker may for the purposes of the authorised development alter the layout of 
or carry out any works in the street in the case of permanent works as specified in column (2) of 
Part 1 of Schedule 3 (permanent alteration of layout) in the manner specified in relation to that 
street in column (3) and in the case of temporary works as specified in column (2) of Part 2 of 
Schedule 3 (temporary alteration of layout) in the manner specified in relation to that street in 
column (3). 
(2) Regardless of the specific powers conferred by paragraph (1) but subject to paragraph (3), 
the undertaker may, for the purposes of constructing and maintaining the authorised development 
alter the layout of any street within the Order limits and, without limitation on the scope of this 
paragraph, the undertaker may— 
(a) alter the level or increase the width of any kerb, footway, cycle track or verge; 
(b) make and maintain passing place(s). 
(3) The undertaker must restore any street that has been temporarily altered under this article to 
the reasonable satisfaction of the street authority. 
(4) The powers conferred by paragraph (2) must not be exercised without the consent of the 
street authority. 
(5) If a street authority which receives an application for consent under paragraph (4) fails to 
notify the undertaker of its decision before the end of the period of eight weeks beginning with the 
date on which the application was made (or such longer period as may be agreed with the 
undertaker in writing), it is deemed to have granted consent. 
(6) Paragraphs (3), (4) and (5) do not apply where the undertaker is the street authority for a 
street in which the works are being carried out. 
(a) S.I 1997/1160. There are amendments to the Regulations which are not relevant to this Order. 
 
9 
                                                                                                                                            
Street works 
11.—(1) The undertaker may, for the purposes of the authorised development, enter on so much 
of any of the streets specified in Schedule 4 (streets subject to street works) as is within the Order 
limits and may— 
(a) break up or open the street, or any sewer, drain or tunnel under it; 
(b) tunnel or bore under the street; 
(c) place apparatus in the street; 
(d) maintain apparatus in the street or change its position; and 
(e) execute any works required for or incidental to any works referred to in sub-paragraphs 
(a), (b), (c) and (d). 
(2) The authority given by paragraph (1) is a statutory right for the purposes of section 48(3) 
(streets, street works and undertakers) and 51(1) (prohibition of unauthorised street works) of the 
1991 Act. 
(3) Where the undertaker is not the street authority, the provisions of sections 54 to 106 of the 
1991 Act apply to any street works carried out under paragraph (1). 
Construction and maintenance of new or altered means of access 
12.—(1) Those parts of each means of access specified in Part 1 of Schedule 6 to be constructed 
under this Order must be completed to the reasonable satisfaction of the highway authority and 
must be maintained by and at the expense of the undertaker for a period of 12 months from 
completion and from the expiry of that period by and at the expense of the highway authority. 
(2) Those parts of each means of access specified in Part 2 of Schedule 6 to be constructed 
under this Order and which are not intended to be a public highway must be completed to the 
reasonable satisfaction of the street authority and must be maintained by and at the expense of the 
undertaker for a period of 12 months from completion and from the expiry of that period by and at 
the expense of the street authority. 
(3) Those restoration works carried out pursuant to article 10(3) (power to alter layout, etc., of 
streets) identified in Part 3 of Schedule 6 which are not intended to be a public highway must be 
completed to the reasonable satisfaction of the street authority and must be maintained by and at 
the expense of the street authority. 
(4) In any action against the undertaker in respect of loss or damage resulting from any failure 
by it to maintain a street under this article, it is a defence (without prejudice to any other defence 
or the application of the law relating to contributory negligence) to prove that the undertaker had 
taken such care as in all the circumstances was reasonably required to secure that the part of the 
street to which the action relates was not dangerous to traffic. 
(5) For the purposes of a defence under paragraph (4), a court is, in particular, to have regard to 
the following matters— 
(a) the character of the street including the traffic which was reasonably to be expected to use 
it; 
(b) the standard of maintenance appropriate for a street of that character and used by such 
traffic; 
(c) the state of repair in which a reasonable person would have expected to find the street; 
(d) whether the undertaker knew, or could reasonably have been expected to know, that the 
condition of the part of the street to which the action relates was likely to cause danger to 
users of the street; and 
(e) where the undertaker could not reasonably have been expected to repair that part of the 
street before the cause of action arose, what warning notices of its condition had been 
displayed. 
but for the purposes of such a defence it is not relevant that the undertaker had arranged for a 
competent person to carry out or supervise the maintenance of that part of the street to which the 
 
10 
action relates unless it is also proved that the undertaker had given that person proper instructions 
with regard to the maintenance of the street and that those instructions had been carried out. 
Temporary prohibition or restriction of use of streets 
13.—(1) The undertaker, during and for the purposes of carrying out the authorised 
development, may temporarily alter, divert, prohibit the use of or restrict the use of any street and 
may for any reasonable time— 
(a) divert the traffic from the street; and 
(b) subject to paragraph (3), prevent all persons from passing along the street. 
(2) Without prejudice to the scope of paragraph (1), the undertaker may use any street where the 
use has been prohibited or restricted under the powers conferred by this article and within the 
Order limits as a temporary working site. 
(3) The undertaker must provide reasonable access for non-motorised users (including 
pedestrians) going to or from premises abutting a street affected by the temporary alteration, 
diversion, prohibition or restriction of a street under this article if there would otherwise be no 
such access. 
(4) Without prejudice to the generality of paragraph (1), the undertaker may temporarily alter, 
divert, prohibit the use of or restrict the use of the streets specified in columns (1) and (2) of 
Schedule 5 (temporary prohibition or restriction of the use of streets) to the extent specified in 
column (3) of that Schedule. 
(5) The undertaker must not temporarily alter, divert, prohibit the use of or restrict the use of— 
(a) any street specified in paragraph (4) without first consulting the street authority; and 
(b) any other street without the consent of the street authority which may attach reasonable 
conditions to any consent. 
(6) If a street authority fails to notify the undertaker of its decision within 8 weeks of receiving 
an application for consent under paragraph (5)(b) (or such longer period as may be agreed with the 
undertaker in writing) that street authority is deemed to have granted consent. 
Access to works 
14.—(1) The undertaker may, for the purposes of the authorised development— 
(a) form and layout the permanent means of access, or improve existing means of access, in 
the location specified in Part 1 of Schedule 3 (streets subject to permanent and temporary 
alteration of layout); 
(b) form and layout the temporary means of access in the location specified in Part 2 of 
Schedule 3 (streets subject to permanent and temporary alteration of layout); and 
(c) with the approval of the relevant planning authority after consultation with the highway 
authority, form and lay out such other means of access or improve the existing means of 
access, at such locations within the Order limits as the undertaker reasonably requires for 
the purposes of the authorised development. 
Agreements with street authorities 
15.—(1) A street authority and the undertaker may enter into agreements with respect to— 
(a) the construction of any new street including any structure carrying the street; 
(b) the strengthening, improvement, repair or reconstruction of any street under the powers 
conferred by this Order; 
(c) the maintenance of the structure of any bridge or tunnel carrying a street; 
(d) any alteration, diversion, prohibition or restriction in the use of a street authorised by this 
Order; or 
 
11 
(e) the carrying out in the street of any of the works referred to in article 12(1) (construction 
and maintenance of new or altered means of access). 
(2) Such an agreement may, without prejudice to the generality of paragraph (1)— 
(a) make provision for the street authority to carry out any function under this Order which 
relates to the street in question; 
(b) include an agreement between the undertaker and street authority specifying a reasonable 
time for the completion of the works; and 
(c) contain such terms as to payment and otherwise as the parties consider appropriate. 
 
PART 4 
SUPPLEMENTAL POWERS 
Discharge of water 
16.—(1) The undertaker may use any watercourse or any public sewer or drain for the drainage 
of water in connection with the carrying out or maintenance of the authorised development and for 
that purpose may lay down, take up and alter pipes and may, on any land within the Order limits, 
make openings into, and connections with, the watercourse, public sewer or drain. 
(2) Any dispute arising from the making of connections to or the use of a public sewer or drain 
by the undertaker pursuant to paragraph (1) is to be determined as if it were a dispute under 
section 106 of the Water Industry Act 1991(a) (right to communicate with public sewers). 
(3) The undertaker must not discharge any water into any watercourse, public sewer or drain 
except with the consent of the person to whom it belongs; and such consent may be given subject 
to such terms and conditions as that person may reasonably impose, but must not be unreasonably 
withheld. 
(4) The undertaker must not make any opening into any public sewer or drain except— 
(a) in accordance with plans approved by the person to whom the sewer or drain belongs but 
approval must not be unreasonably withheld; and 
(b) where that person has been given the opportunity to supervise the making of the opening. 
(5) Except as authorised under this Order, the undertaker must not, in carrying out or 
maintaining works, damage or interfere with the bed or banks of any watercourse forming part of a 
main river. 
(6) The undertaker must take such steps as are reasonably practicable to secure that any water 
discharged into a watercourse or public sewer or drain pursuant to this article is as free as may be 
practicable from gravel, soil or other solid substance, oil or matter in suspension. 
(7) This article does not authorise the entry into controlled waters of any matter whose entry or 
discharge into controlled waters requires a licence pursuant to the Environmental Permitting 
(England and Wales) Regulations 2010. 
(8) In this article— 
(a) “public sewer or drain” means a sewer or drain which belongs to the Homes and 
Communities Agency, the Environment Agency, a harbour authority within the meaning 
of section 57 of the Harbours Act 1964(b) (interpretation), an internal drainage board, a 
joint planning board, a local authority, a National Park Authority, a sewerage undertaker 
or an urban development corporation; and 
(a) 1991 c.56. Section 106 was amended by sections 36(2) and 99 of the Water Act 2003 (c.37), and amended by section 32 of, 
and paragraph 16(2) of Schedule 3 to, the Flood and Water Management Act 2010 (date in force to be appointed, see 
section 49(3)(h)(i)). There are other amendments to this section which are not relevant to this Order. 
(b) 1964 c.40. 
 
12 
                                                                                                                                            
(b) other expressions, excluding watercourse, used both in this article and in the 
Environmental Permitting (England and Wales) Regulations 2010 have the same meaning 
as in that Act. 
Authority to survey and investigate the land 
17.—(1) The undertaker may for the purposes of this Order enter on any land shown within the 
Order limits or which may be affected by the authorised development and— 
(a) survey or investigate the land; 
(b) without prejudice to the generality of sub-paragraph (a), make trial holes in such positions 
on the land as the undertaker thinks fit to investigate the nature of the surface layer and 
subsoil and remove soil samples; 
(c) without prejudice to the generality of sub-paragraph (a), carry out ecological or 
archaeological investigations on such land; and 
(d) place on, leave on and remove from the land apparatus for use in connection with the 
survey and investigation of land and making of trial holes. 
(2) No land may be entered or equipment placed or left on or removed from the land under 
paragraph (1) unless at least 14 days’ notice has been served on every owner and occupier of the 
land. 
(3) Any person entering land under this article on behalf of the undertaker— 
(a) must, if so required entering the land, produce written evidence of their authority to do so; 
and 
(b) may take with them such vehicles and equipment as are necessary to carry out the survey 
or investigation or to make the trial holes. 
(4) No trial holes are to be made under this article— 
(a) in land located within the highway boundary without the consent of the highway 
authority; or 
(b) in a private street without the consent of the street authority, 
but such consent must not be unreasonably withheld. 
(5) The undertaker must compensate the owners and occupiers of the land for any loss or 
damage arising by reason of the exercise of the authority conferred by this article, such 
compensation to be determined, in case of dispute, under Part 1 (determination of questions of 
disputed compensation) of the 1961 Act. 
Removal of human remains 
18.—(1) In this article “the specified land” means the Order land. 
(2) Before the undertaker carries out any development or works which will or may disturb any 
human remains in the specified land it must remove those human remains from the specified land, 
or cause them to be removed, in accordance with the following provisions of this article. 
(3) Before any such remains are removed from the specified land the undertaker must give 
notice of the intended removal, describing the specified land and stating the general effect of the 
following provisions of this article, by— 
(a) publishing a notice once in each of two successive weeks in a newspaper circulating in 
the area of the authorised project; and 
(b) displaying a notice in a conspicuous place on or near to the specified land. 
(4) As soon as reasonably practicable after the first publication of a notice under paragraph (3) 
the undertaker must send a copy of the notice to the relevant planning authority. 
(5) At any time within 56 days after the first publication of a notice under paragraph (3) any 
person who is a personal representative or relative of any deceased person whose remains are 
 
13 
interred in the specified land may give notice in writing to the undertaker of that person’s intention 
to undertake the removal of the remains. 
(6) Where a person has given notice under paragraph (5), and the remains in question can be 
identified, that person may cause such remains to be— 
(a) removed and re-interred in any burial ground or cemetery in which burials may legally 
take place; or 
(b) removed to, and cremated in, any crematorium, and that person must, as soon as 
reasonably practicable after such re-interment or cremation, provide to the undertaker a 
certificate for the purpose of enabling compliance with paragraph (11). 
(7) If the undertaker is not satisfied that any person giving notice under paragraph (5) is the 
personal representative or relative as that person claims to be, or that the remains in question can 
be identified, the question is to be determined on the application of either party in a summary 
manner by the county court, and the court may make an order specifying who is to remove the 
remains and as to the payment of the costs of the application. 
(8) The undertaker must pay the reasonable expenses of removing and re-interring or cremating 
the remains of any deceased person under this article. 
(9) If— 
(a) within the period of 56 days referred to in paragraph (5) no notice under that paragraph 
has been given to the undertaker in respect of any remains in the specified land; or 
(b) such notice is given and no application is made under paragraph (7) within 56 days after 
the giving of the notice but the person who gave the notice fails to remove the remains 
within a further period of 56 days; or 
(c) within 56 days after any order is made by the county court under paragraph (7) any 
person, other than the undertaker, specified in the order fails to remove the remains; or 
(d) it is determined that the remains to which any such notice relates cannot be identified, 
subject to paragraph (10) the undertaker must remove the remains and cause them to be 
re-interred in such burial ground or cemetery in which burials may legally take place as 
the undertaker thinks suitable for the purpose; and, so far as possible, remains from 
individual graves must be re-interred in individual containers which must be identifiable 
by a record prepared with reference to the original position of burial of the remains that 
they contain. 
(10) If the undertaker is satisfied that any person giving notice under paragraph (5) is the 
personal representative or relative as that person claims to be and that the remains in question can 
be identified, but that person does not remove the remains, the undertaker must comply with any 
reasonable request that person may make in relation to the removal and re-interment or cremation 
of the remains. 
(11) On the re-interment or cremation of any remains under this article— 
(a) a certificate of re-interment or cremation must be sent by the undertaker to the Registrar 
General by the undertaker giving the date of re-interment or cremation and identifying the 
place from which the remains were removed and the place in which they were re-interred 
or cremated; and 
(b) a copy of the certificate of re-interment or cremation and the record mentioned in 
paragraph (9) must be sent by the undertaker to the address mentioned in paragraph (4). 
(12) The removal of the remains of any deceased person under this article must be carried out in 
accordance with any directions which may be given by the Secretary of State. 
(13) Any jurisdiction or function conferred on the county court by this article may be exercised 
by the district judge of the court. 
 
14 
(14) Section 25 of the Burial Act 1857(a) (bodies not to be removed from burial grounds, save 
under faculty, without licence of Secretary of State) is not to apply to a removal carried out in 
accordance with this article. 
 
PART 5 
POWERS OF ACQUISITION 
Compulsory acquisition of land 
19.—(1) The undertaker may acquire compulsorily so much of the Order land as is required for 
the authorised development or to facilitate it, or as is incidental to it. 
(2) This article is subject to article 22 (Compulsory acquisition of rights etc.), article 25 
(acquisition of subsoil only) and article 28 (Temporary use of land for carrying out the authorised 
development). 
Statutory authority to override easements and other rights 
20.—(1) The carrying out or use of the authorised development and the doing of anything else 
authorised by this Order is authorised for the purpose specified in section 158(2) of the 2008 Act 
(nuisance: statutory authority), notwithstanding that it involves— 
(a) an interference with an interest or right to which this article applies; or 
(b) a breach of a restriction as to use of land arising by virtue of contract. 
(2) The undertaker must pay compensation to any person whose land is injuriously affected 
by— 
(a) an interference with an interest or right to which this article applies; or 
(b) a breach of a restriction as to use of land arising by virtue of contract, 
authorised by virtue of this Order and the operation of section 158 of the 2008 Act. 
(3) The interests and rights to which this article applies are any easement, liberty, privilege, right 
or advantage annexed to land and adversely affecting other land, including any natural right to 
support. 
(4) Subsection (2) of section 10 of the 1965 Act applies to paragraph (2) by virtue of section 
152(5) of the 2008 Act (compensation in case where no right to claim in nuisance). 
(5) Any rule or principle applied to the construction of section 10 of the 1965 Act must be 
applied to the construction of paragraph (2) (with any necessary modifications). 
Time limit for exercise of authority to acquire land compulsorily 
21.—(1) After the end of the period of 5 years beginning on the day on which this Order is 
made— 
(a) no notice to treat may be served under Part 1 of the 1965 Act; and 
(b) no declaration may be executed under section 4 of the Compulsory Purchase (Vesting 
Declarations) Act 1981(b) as applied by article 24 (application of the Compulsory 
Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act 1981). 
(a) 1857 c.81. There are amendments to this Act which are not relevant to this Order. 
(b) 1981 c.66. Sections 2(3), 6(2) and 11(6) were amended by section 4 of, and paragraph 52 of Schedule 2 to, the Planning 
(Consequential Provisions) Act 1990 (c.11). Section 15 was amended by sections 56 and 321(1) of, and Schedules 8 and 16 
to, the Housing and Regeneration Act 2008 (c.17). Paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 was amended by section 76 of, and Part 2 of 
Schedule 9 to, the Housing Act 1988 (c.50); section 161(4) of, and Schedule 19 to, the Leasehold Reform, Housing and 
Urban Development Act 1993 (c.28); and sections 56 and 321(1) of, and Schedule 8 to, the Housing and Regeneration Act 
2008. Paragraph 3 of Schedule 2 was amended by section 76 of, and Schedule 9 to, the Housing Act 1988 and section 56 of, 
 
15 
                                                                                                                                            
 
(2) The authority conferred by article 28 (temporary use of land for carrying out the authorised 
development) must cease at the end of the period referred to in paragraph (1), save that nothing in 
this paragraph prevents the undertaker remaining in possession of land after the end of that period, 
if the land was entered and possession was taken before the end of that period. 
Compulsory acquisition of rights etc. 
22.—(1) The undertaker may acquire compulsorily the existing rights over land and create and 
acquire compulsorily the new rights described in the book of reference and shown on the land 
plans. 
(2) Subject to section 8 of the 1965 Act, as substituted by article 26 (acquisition of part of 
certain properties), where the undertaker acquires a right over land under paragraph (1), the 
undertaker is not to be required to acquire a greater interest in that land. 
(3) Schedule 7 is to have effect for the purpose of modifying the enactments relating to 
compensation and the provisions of the 1965 Act in their application in relation to the compulsory 
acquisition under this article of a right over land by the creation of a new right. 
(4) In any case where the acquisition of new rights under paragraph (1) is required for the 
purposes of diverting, replacing or protecting the apparatus of a statutory undertaker, the 
undertaker may, with the consent of the Secretary of State, transfer the power to acquire such 
rights to the statutory undertaker in question. 
(5) The exercise by a statutory undertaker of any power in accordance with a transfer under 
paragraph (4) is subject to the same restrictions, liabilities and obligations as would apply under 
this Order if that power were exercised by the undertaker. 
Private rights 
23.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights over land subject to 
compulsory acquisition under this Order are extinguished— 
(a) as from the date of acquisition of the land by the undertaker, whether compulsorily or by 
agreement; or 
(b) on the date of entry on the land by the undertaker under section 11(1) of the 1965 Act 
(power of entry), 
whichever is the earliest. 
(2) Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights over land subject to the compulsory 
acquisition of rights under this Order are suspended and unenforceable or, where so notified by the 
undertaker, extinguished in so far as in either case their continuance would be inconsistent with 
the exercise of the right— 
(a) as from the date of acquisition of the right by the undertaker, whether compulsorily or by 
agreement; or 
(b) on the date of entry on the land by the undertaker under section 11(1) of the 1965 Act 
(power of entry) in pursuance of the right, 
whichever is the earliest. 
(3) Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights over land owned by the undertaker 
are extinguished on commencement of any activity authorised by this Order which interferes with 
or breaches such rights. 
(4) Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights over land of which the undertaker 
takes temporary possession under this Order are suspended and unenforceable for as long as the 
and Schedule 8 to, the Housing and Regeneration Act 2008. Paragraph 2 of Schedule 3 was repealed by section 277 of, and 
Schedule 9 to, the Inheritance Tax Act 1984 (c.51). There are amendments to the 1981 Act which are not relevant to this 
Order. 
 
16 
                                                                                                                                            
undertaker remains in lawful possession of the land and so far as their continuance would be 
inconsistent with the exercise of the temporary possession of that land. 
(5) Any person who suffers loss by the extinguishment or suspension of any private right under 
this Order is entitled to compensation to be determined, in case of dispute, under Part 1 of the 
1961 Act. 
(6) This article does not apply in relation to any right to which article 30 (statutory undertakers) 
applies. 
(7) Paragraphs (1) to (3) have effect subject to— 
(a) any notice given by the undertaker before— 
(i) the completion of the acquisition of the land or the acquisition of rights over land, 
(ii) the undertaker’s appropriation of it, 
(iii) the undertaker’s entry onto it, or 
(iv) the undertaker’s taking temporary possession of it, 
that any or all of those paragraphs do not apply to any right specified in the notice; and 
(b) any agreement made at any time between the undertaker and the person in or to whom the 
right in question is vested or belongs. 
(8) If any such agreement as is referred to in paragraph (7)(b)— 
(a) is made with a person in or to whom the right is vested or belongs; and 
(b) is expressed to have effect also for the benefit of those deriving title from or under that 
person, 
it is effective in respect of the persons so deriving title, whether the title was derived before or 
after the making of the agreement. 
Application of the Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act 1981 
24.—(1) The Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act 1981 applies as if this Order 
were a compulsory purchase order. 
(2) The Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act 1981, as so applied, has effect with 
the following modifications. 
(3) In section 3 (preliminary notices), for subsection (1) there is substituted— 
“(1) Before making a declaration under section 4 with respect to any land which is subject 
to a compulsory purchase order, the acquiring authority must include the particulars 
specified in subsection (3) in a notice which is— 
(a) given to every person with a relevant interest in the land with respect to which the 
declaration is to be made (other than a mortgagee who is not in possession); and 
(b) published in a local newspaper circulating in the area in which the land is situated.
”. 
(4) In that section, in subsection (2), for ““(1)(b)”” there is substituted ““(1)”” and after 
““given”” there is inserted ““and published””. 
(5) In that section, for subsections (5) and (6) there is substituted— 
“(5) For the purposes of this section, a person has a relevant interest in land if— 
(a) that person is for the time being entitled to dispose of the fee simple of the land, 
whether in possession or in reversion; or 
(b) that person holds, or is entitled to the rents and profits of, the land under a lease or 
agreement, the unexpired term of which exceeds one month.”. 
(6) In section 5 (earliest date for execution of declaration)— 
(a) in subsection (1), after ““publication”” there is inserted ““in a local newspaper circulating 
in the area in which the land is situated””; and 
 
17 
(b) subsection (2) is omitted. 
(7) In section 7 (constructive notice to treat), in subsection (1)(a), the words ““(as modified by 
section 4 of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981)”” are omitted. 
(8) References to the 1965 Act in the Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act 1981 
must be construed as references to that Act as applied by section 125 of the 2008 Act to the 
compulsory acquisition of land under this Order. 
Acquisition of subsoil only 
25.—(1) The undertaker may acquire compulsorily so much of, or such rights in, the subsoil of 
the land referred to in paragraph (1) of article 19 (compulsory acquisition of land) and paragraph 
(1) of article 22 (compulsory acquisition of rights etc.) as may be required for any purpose for 
which that land may be acquired under that provision instead of acquiring the whole of the land. 
(2) Where the undertaker acquires any part of, or rights in, the subsoil of land under paragraph 
(1), the undertaker is not to be required to acquire an interest in any other part of the land. 
(3) Paragraph (2) must not prevent article 26 (acquisition of part of certain properties) from 
applying where the undertaker acquires a cellar, vault, arch or other construction forming part of a 
house, building or manufactory. 
Acquisition of part of certain properties 
26.—(1) This article applies instead of section 8(1) of the 1965 Act (other provisions as to 
divided land) (as applied by section 125 of the 2008 Act) where— 
(a) a notice to treat is served on a person (“the owner”) under the 1965 Act (as so applied) in 
respect of land forming only part of a house, building or manufactory or of land 
consisting of a house with a park or garden (“the land subject to the notice to treat”); and 
(b) a copy of this article is served on the owner with the notice to treat. 
(2) In such a case, the owner may, within the period of 21 days beginning with the day on which 
the notice was served, serve on the undertaker a counter-notice objecting to the sale of the land 
subject to the notice to treat which states that the owner is willing and able to sell the whole (“the 
land subject to the counter-notice”). 
(3) If no such counter-notice is served within that period, the owner is to be required to sell the 
land subject to the notice to treat. 
(4) If such a counter-notice is served within that period, the question whether the owner is to be 
required to sell only the land subject to the notice to treat is to be, unless the undertaker agrees to 
take the land subject to the counter-notice, referred to the tribunal. 
(5) If on such a reference the tribunal determines that the land subject to the notice to treat can 
be taken— 
(a) without material detriment to the remainder of the land subject to the counter-notice; or 
(b) where the land subject to the notice to treat consists of a house with a park or garden, 
without material detriment to the remainder of the land subject to the counter-notice and 
without seriously affecting the amenity and convenience of the house, 
the owner is to be required to sell the land subject to the notice to treat. 
(6) If on such a reference the tribunal determines that only part of the land subject to the notice 
to treat can be taken— 
(a) without material detriment to the remainder of the land subject to the counter-notice; or 
(b) where the land subject to the notice to treat consists of a house with a park or garden, 
without material detriment to the remainder of the land subject to the counter-notice and 
without seriously affecting the amenity and convenience of the house, 
the notice to treat is to be deemed to be a notice to treat for that part. 
(7) If on such a reference the tribunal determines that— 
 
18 
(a) the land subject to the notice to treat cannot be taken without material detriment to the 
remainder of the land subject to the counter-notice; but 
(b) the material detriment is confined to a part of the land subject to the counter-notice, 
the notice to treat is to be deemed to be a notice to treat for the land to which the material 
detriment is confined in addition to the land already subject to the notice, whether or not the 
additional land is land which the undertaker is authorised to acquire compulsorily under this 
Order. 
(8) If the undertaker agrees to take the land subject to the counter-notice, or if the tribunal 
determines that— 
(a) none of the land subject to the notice to treat can be taken without material detriment to 
the remainder of the land subject to the counter-notice or, as the case may be, without 
material detriment to the remainder of the land subject to the counter-notice and without 
seriously affecting the amenity and convenience of the house; and 
(b) the material detriment is not confined to a part of the land subject to the counter-notice, 
the notice to treat is to be deemed to be a notice to treat for the land subject to the counter-notice 
whether or not the whole of that land is land which the undertaker is authorised to acquire 
compulsorily under this Order. 
(9) Where, by reason of a determination by the tribunal under this article, a notice to treat is 
deemed to be a notice to treat for less land or more land than that specified in the notice, the 
undertaker may, within the period of 6 weeks beginning with the day on which the determination 
is made, withdraw the notice to treat; and, in that event, must pay the owner compensation for any 
loss or expense occasioned to the owner by the giving and withdrawal of the notice, to be 
determined in case of dispute by the tribunal. 
(10) Where the owner is required under this article to sell only part of a house, building or 
manufactory or of land consisting of a house with a park or garden, the undertaker must pay the 
owner compensation for any loss sustained by the owner due to the severance of that part in 
addition to the value of the interest acquired. 
Rights under or over streets 
27.—(1) The undertaker may enter upon and appropriate so much of the subsoil of, or air-space 
over, any street within the Order limits as may be required for the purposes of the authorised 
development and may use the subsoil or air-space for those purposes or any other purpose 
ancillary to the authorised development. 
(2) Subject to paragraph (3), the undertaker may exercise any power conferred by paragraph (1) 
in relation to a street without being required to acquire any part of the street or any easement or 
right in the street. 
(3) Paragraph (2) is not to apply in relation to— 
(a) any subway or underground building; or 
(b) any cellar, vault, arch or other construction in, on or under a street which forms part of a 
building fronting onto the street. 
(4) Subject to paragraph (5), any person who is an owner or occupier of land in respect of which 
the power of appropriation conferred by paragraph (1) is exercised without the undertaker 
acquiring any part of that person’s interest in the land, and who suffers loss by the exercise of that 
power, is to be entitled to compensation to be determined, in case of dispute, under Part 1 of the 
1961 Act. 
(5) Compensation is not payable under paragraph (4) to any person who is an undertaker to 
whom section 85 of the 1991 Act (sharing cost of necessary measures) applies in respect of 
measures of which the allowable costs are to be borne in accordance with that section. 
 
19 
Temporary use of land for carrying out the authorised development 
28.—(1) The undertaker may, in connection with the carrying out of the authorised 
development— 
(a) enter on and take temporary possession of— 
(i) the land specified in columns (1) and (2) of Schedule 8 (land of which temporary 
possession may be taken) for the purpose specified in relation to that land in column 
(3) of that Schedule relating to the part of the authorised development specified in 
column (4) of that Schedule; 
(ii) any other Order land in respect of which no notice of entry has been served under 
section 11 of the 1965 Act (powers of entry) (other than in connection with the 
requisition of rights only) and no declaration has been made under section 4 of the 
Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act 1981 (execution of declaration); 
(b) remove any buildings and vegetation from that land; and 
(c) construct temporary works (including the provision of means of access) and buildings on 
that land; and 
(d) construct any works specified in relation to that land in column (3) of Schedule 8, or any 
other mitigation works. 
(2) Not less than 14 days before entering on and taking temporary possession of land under this 
article the undertaker must serve notice of the intended entry on the owners and occupiers of the 
land. 
(3) The undertaker may not, without the agreement of the owners of the land, remain in 
possession of any land under this article— 
(a) in the case of land specified in paragraph (1)(a)(i) after the end of the period of one year 
beginning with the date of final commissioning of the authorised development; or 
(b) in the case of land referred to in paragraph (1)(a)(ii) after the end of the period of one 
year beginning with the date of final commissioning of the authorised development unless 
the undertaker has, before the end of that period, served notice of entry under section 11 
of the 1965 Act or made a declaration under section 4 of the Compulsory Purchase 
(Vesting Declarations) Act 1981 or has otherwise acquired the land subject to temporary 
possession. 
(4) Unless the undertaker has served notice of entry under section 11 of the 1965 Act or made a 
declaration under section 4 of the Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act 1981 or has 
otherwise acquired the land subject to temporary possession, the undertaker must, before giving up 
possession of land of which temporary possession has been taken under this article, remove all 
temporary works and restore the land to the reasonable satisfaction of the owners of the land; but 
the undertaker is not to be required to replace a building removed under this article. 
(5) The undertaker must pay compensation to the owners and occupiers of land of which 
temporary possession is taken under this article for any loss or damage arising from the exercise in 
relation to the land of the provisions of any power conferred by this article. 
(6) Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (5), or as to the 
amount of the compensation, is to be determined under Part 1 of the 1961 Act. 
(7) Nothing in this article affects any liability to pay compensation under section 10(2) of the 
1965 Act (further provisions as to compensation for injurious affection) or under any other 
enactment in respect of loss or damage arising from the carrying out of the authorised 
development, other than loss or damage for which compensation is payable under paragraph (5). 
(8) The undertaker may not compulsorily acquire under this Order the land referred to in 
paragraph (1)(a)(i). 
(9) Where the undertaker takes possession of land under this article, the undertaker is not to be 
required to acquire the land or any interest in it. 
(10) Section 13 of the 1965 Act (refusal to give possession to acquiring authority) applies to the 
temporary use of land pursuant to this article to the same extent as it applies to the compulsory 
 
20 
acquisition of land under this Order by virtue of section 125 of the 2008 Act (application of 
compulsory acquisition provisions). 
(11) Nothing in this article prevents the taking of temporary possession more than once in 
relation to any land specified in Schedule 8. 
Temporary use of land for maintaining the authorised development 
29.—(1) Subject to paragraph (2), at any time during the maintenance period relating to any part 
of the authorised development, the undertaker may— 
(a) enter on and take temporary possession of any land within the Order limits if such 
possession is reasonably required for the purpose of maintaining the authorised 
development; and 
(b) construct such temporary works (including the provision of means of access) and 
buildings on the land as may be reasonably necessary for that purpose. 
(2) Paragraph (1) does not authorise the undertaker to take temporary possession of— 
(a) any house or garden belonging to a house; or 
(b) any building (other than a house) if it is for the time being occupied. 
(3) Not less than 28 days before entering on and taking temporary possession of land under this 
article the undertaker must serve notice of the intended entry on the owners and occupiers of the 
land. 
(4) The undertaker may only remain in possession of land under this article for so long as may 
be reasonably necessary to carry out the maintenance of the part of the authorised development for 
which possession of the land was taken. 
(5) Before giving up possession of land of which temporary possession has been taken under 
this article, the undertaker must remove all temporary works and restore the land to the reasonable 
satisfaction of the owners of the land. 
(6) The undertaker must pay compensation to the owners and occupiers of land of which 
temporary possession is taken under this article for any loss or damage arising from the exercise in 
relation to the land of the provisions of this article. 
(7) Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (6), or as to the 
amount of the compensation, is to be determined under Part 1 of the 1961 Act. 
(8) Nothing in this article affects any liability to pay compensation under section 10(2) of the 
1965 Act (further provisions as to compensation for injurious affection) or under any other 
enactment in respect of loss or damage arising from the maintenance of the authorised 
development, other than loss or damage for which compensation is payable under paragraph (6). 
(9) Where the undertaker takes possession of land under this article, the undertaker is not to be 
required to acquire the land or any interest in it. 
(10) Section 13 of the 1965 Act (refusal to give possession to acquiring authority) applies to the 
temporary use of land pursuant to this article to the same extent as it applies to the compulsory 
acquisition of land under this Order by virtue of section 125 of the 2008 Act (application of 
compulsory acquisition provisions). 
(11) In this article “the maintenance period” means the period of 5 years beginning with the date 
of final commissioning. 
Statutory undertakers 
30. Subject to the provisions of Schedule 9 (protective provisions), the undertaker may— 
(a) acquire compulsorily the land belonging to statutory undertakers shown on the land plans 
within the limits of the land to be acquired and described in the book of reference; 
(b) extinguish or suspend the rights of, remove or reposition the apparatus belonging to 
statutory undertakers shown on the land plans and described in the book of reference; and 
 
21 
(c) acquire compulsorily the new rights over land belonging to statutory undertakers shown 
on the land plans and described in the book of reference. 
Apparatus and rights of statutory undertakers in streets subject to temporary prohibition or 
restriction 
31.—(1) Where a street is temporarily altered or diverted or its use is temporarily prohibited or 
restricted under article 12 (construction and maintenance of new or altered means of access) or 
article 13 (temporary prohibition or restriction of use of streets) any statutory utility whose 
apparatus is under, in, on, along or across the street is to have the same powers and rights in 
respect of that apparatus, subject to Schedule 9 (protective provisions), as if this Order had not 
been made. 
Recovery of costs of new connections 
32.—(1) Where any apparatus of a public utility undertaker or of a public communications 
provider is removed under article 30 (statutory undertakers) any person who is the owner or 
occupier of premises to which a supply was given from that apparatus is to be entitled to recover 
from the undertaker compensation in respect of expenditure reasonably incurred by that person, in 
consequence of the removal, for the purpose of effecting a connection between the premises and 
any other apparatus from which a supply is given. 
(2) Paragraph (1) does not apply in the case of the removal of a public sewer but where such a 
sewer is removed under article 30 (statutory undertakers) any person who is— 
(a) the owner or occupier of premises the drains of which communicated with the sewer; or 
(b) the owner of a private sewer which communicated with that sewer, 
is to be entitled to recover from the undertaker compensation in respect of expenditure reasonably 
incurred by that person, in consequence of the removal, for the purpose of making the drain or 
sewer belonging to that person communicate with any other public sewer or with a private 
sewerage disposal plant. 
(3) In this article— 
“public communications provider” has the same meaning as in section 151(1) of the 
Communications Act 2003(a); and 
“public utility undertaker” has the same meaning as in the 1980 Act. 
 
PART 6 
OPERATIONS 
Felling or lopping of trees and removal of hedgerows 
33.—(1) The undertaker may fell or lop any tree or shrub near any part of the authorised 
development, or cut back its roots, if it reasonably believes it to be necessary to do so to prevent 
the tree or shrub— 
(a) from obstructing or interfering with the construction, maintenance or operation of the 
authorised development or any apparatus used in connection with the authorised 
development; or 
(b) from constituting a danger to persons using the authorised development. 
(a) 2003 c.21. 
 
22 
                                                                                                                                            
(2) In carrying out any activity authorised by paragraph (1) and paragraph (4), the undertaker 
must do no unnecessary damage to any tree or shrub and must pay compensation to any person for 
any loss or damage arising from such activity. 
(3) Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (2), or as to the 
amount of compensation, is to be determined under Part 1 of the 1961 Act. 
(4) The undertaker may, for the purposes of the authorised development— 
(a) subject to paragraph (2), remove any hedgerows within the Order limits that may be 
required for the purposes of carrying out the authorised development; and 
(b) remove the important hedgerows as are within the Order limits and specified in Schedule 
11 (removal of important hedgerows). 
(5) In this article “hedgerow” and “important hedgerow” have the same meaning as in the 
Hedgerow Regulations 1997. 
 
PART 7 
MISCELLANEOUS AND GENERAL 
Application of landlord and tenant law 
34.—(1) This article applies to— 
(a) any agreement for leasing to any person the whole or any part of the authorised 
development or the right to operate the same; and 
(b) any agreement entered into by the undertaker with any person for the construction, 
maintenance, use or operation of the authorised development, or any part of it, 
so far as any such agreement relates to the terms on which any land which is the subject of a lease 
granted by or under that agreement is to be provided for that person’s use. 
(2) No enactment or rule of law regulating the rights and obligations of landlords and tenants 
prejudices the operation of any agreement to which this article applies. 
(3) Accordingly, no such enactment or rule of law applies in relation to the rights and 
obligations of the parties to any lease granted by or under any such agreement so as to— 
(a) exclude or in any respect modify any of the rights and obligations of those parties under 
the terms of the lease, whether with respect to the termination of the tenancy or any other 
matter; 
(b) confer or impose on any such party any right or obligation arising out of or connected 
with anything done or omitted on or in relation to land which is the subject of the lease, in 
addition to any such right or obligation provided for by the terms of the lease; or 
(c) restrict the enforcement (whether by action for damages or otherwise) by any party to the 
lease of any obligation of any other party under the lease. 
Cases in which land is to be treated as not being operational land 
35. Development consent granted by this Order insofar as it relates to numbered works 1, 2, 3A 
and 5 described in Schedule 1 is to be treated as specific planning permission for the purposes of 
section 264(3)(a) of the 1990 Act (Cases in which land is to be treated as not being operational 
land). 
 
23 
Defence to proceedings in respect of statutory nuisance 
36.—(1) Where proceedings are brought under section 82(1) of the Environmental Protection 
Act 1990(a) (summary proceedings by persons aggrieved by statutory nuisances) in relation to a 
nuisance falling within paragraph (g) of section 79(1) of that Act (noise emitted from premises so 
as to be prejudicial to health or a nuisance) no order is to be made, and no fine may be imposed, 
under section 82(2) of that Act if— 
(a) the defendant shows that the nuisance— 
(i) relates to premises used by the undertaker for the purposes of or in connection with 
the construction or maintenance of the authorised development and that the nuisance 
is attributable to the carrying out of the authorised development in accordance with a 
notice served under section 60 (control of noise on construction sites), or a consent 
given under section 61 (prior consent for work on construction sites) or 65 (noise 
exceeding registered level), of the Control of Pollution Act 1974(b); or 
(ii) is a consequence of the construction or maintenance of the authorised development 
and that it cannot reasonably be avoided; or 
(b) the defendant shows that the nuisance is a consequence of the use of the authorised 
development and that it cannot reasonably be avoided. 
(2) Section 61(9) (consent for work on construction site to include statement that it does not of 
itself constitute a defence to proceedings under section 82 of the Environmental Protection Act 
1990) of the Control of Pollution Act 1974 and section 65(8) of that Act (corresponding provision 
in relation to consent for registered noise level to be exceeded), is not to apply where the consent 
relates to the use of premises by the undertaker for the purposes of or in connection with the 
construction or maintenance of the authorised development. 
Protective provisions 
37. Schedule 9 (protective provisions) has effect. 
Certification of plans etc 
38.—(1) The undertaker must, as soon as practicable after the making of this Order, submit to 
the Secretary of State copies of— 
(a) the book of reference; 
(b) the design principles statement; 
(c) the ecological management strategy; 
(d) the environmental statement; 
(e) the flood risk assessment; 
(f) the important hedgerow plan;  
(g) the land plans; 
(h) the landscape mitigation strategy; 
(i) the outline construction environment management plan; 
(j) the outline construction traffic management plan; 
(k) the outline landscaping plans; 
(l) the outline lighting strategy; 
(m) the rights of way, streets and access plan; 
(a) 1990 c.43. Section 82(1) was amended by paragraph 6 of Schedule 17 to the Environment Act 1995 (c.25). There are 
amendments to this Act which are not relevant to this Order. 
(b) 1974 c.40. Sections 61(9) and 65(8) were amended by section 162 of, and paragraph 15(4) of Schedule 15 to, the 
Environmental Protection Act 1990, c.43. There are other amendments to the 1974 Act which are not relevant to this Order. 
 
24 
                                                                                                                                            
(n) the stage 2 written scheme of archaeological investigation; and 
(o) the works plans 
for certification that they are true copies of the documents referred to in this Order. 
(2) A plan or document so certified is to be admissible in any proceedings as evidence of the 
contents of the document of which it is a copy. 
Service of notices 
39.—(1) A notice or other document required or authorised to be served for the purposes of this 
Order may be served— 
(a) by post; 
(b) by delivering it to the person on whom it is to be served or to whom it is to be given or 
supplied; or 
(c) with the consent of the recipient and subject to paragraphs (6) to (8), by electronic 
transmission. 
(2) Where the person on whom a notice or other document to be served for the purposes of this 
Order is a body corporate, the notice or document is duly served if it is served on the secretary or 
clerk of that body. 
(3) For the purposes of section 7 of the Interpretation Act 1978(a) as it applies for the purposes 
of this article, the proper address of any person in relation to the service on that person of a notice 
or document under paragraph (1) is, if that person has given an address for service, that address 
and otherwise— 
(a) in the case of the secretary of clerk of that body corporate, the registered or principal 
office of that body, and, 
(b) in any other case, the last known address of that person at that time of service. 
(4) Where for the purposes of this Order a notice or other document is required or authorised to 
be served on a person as having an interest in, or as the occupier of, land and the name or address 
of that person cannot be ascertained after reasonable enquiry, the notice may be served by— 
(a) addressing it to that person by the description of “owner”, or as the case may be 
“occupier” of the land (describing it); and 
(b) either leaving it in the hands of the person who is or appears to be resident or employed 
on the land or leaving it conspicuously affixed to some building or object on or near the 
land. 
(5) Where a notice or other document required to be served or sent for the purposes of this Order 
is served or sent by electronic transmission the requirement is to be taken to be fulfilled only 
where— 
(a) the recipient of the notice or other document to be transmitted has given consent to the 
use of electronic transmission in writing or by electronic transmission; 
(b) the notice or document is capable of being accessed by the recipient; 
(c) the notice or document is legible in all material respects; and 
(d) in a form sufficiently permanent to be used for subsequent reference. 
(6) Where the recipient of a notice or other document served or sent by electronic transmission 
notifies the sender within seven days of receipt that the recipient requires a paper copy of all or 
any part of that notice or other document the sender must provide such a copy as soon as 
reasonably practicable. 
(7) Any consent to the use of an electronic transmission by a person may be revoked by that 
person in accordance with paragraph (8). 
(a) 1978 c.30 
 
25 
                                                                                                                                            
(8) Where a person is no longer willing to accept the use of electronic transmission for any of 
the purposes of this Order— 
(a) that person must give notice in writing or by electronic transmission revoking any consent 
given by that person for that purpose; and 
(b) such revocation is final and takes effect on a date specified by the person in the notice but 
that date must not be less than 7 days after the date on which the notice is given. 
(9) This article does not exclude the employment of any method of service not expressly 
provided for by it. 
Procedure in relation to certain approvals etc 
40.—(1) Where an application is made to or request is made of the relevant planning authority, a 
highway authority, a traffic authority, a street authority, or the owner of a watercourse, sewer or 
drain for any consent, agreement or approval required or contemplated by any of the provisions of 
the Order (not including the requirements), such consent, agreement or approval to be validly 
given, must be given in writing and must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed. 
(2) Save for applications made pursuant to Schedule 10, if, within eight weeks after the 
application or request has been submitted to an authority or an owner as referred to in paragraph 
(1) of this article (or such longer period as may be agreed with the undertaker in writing) it has not 
notified the undertaker of its disapproval and the grounds of disapproval, it is deemed to have 
approved the application or request. 
(3) Schedule 10 is to have effect in relation to all consents, agreements or approvals required 
from the relevant planning authority in respect of discharge of requirements listed in Schedule 2. 
(4) Where an application is made to or request is made of the relevant planning authority for any 
consent, agreement or approval required or contemplated by article 14(1)(c) (access to works) or 
requirement 6 (Highway accesses) of Schedule 2 to the Order, such application or request must at 
the same time be sent to the highway authority for its reference. 
(5) Where an application is made to or request is made of the relevant planning authority for any 
consent, agreement or approval required or contemplated by any requirement where a third party 
is a consultee under that requirement, such application or request must at the same time be sent to 
that third party for its reference. 
Arbitration 
41. Any difference under any provision of this Order, unless otherwise provided for, is to be 
referred to and settled by a single arbitrator to be agreed between the parties or, failing agreement, 
to be appointed on the application of either party (after giving notice in writing to the other) by the 
Secretary of State. 
 
Signed by authority of the Secretary of State for Energy and Climate Change 
 
 
Name 
Address 
Designation 
Date 
Department for Energy and Climate Change 
 
 
 
26 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
Article 3 
AUTHORISED DEVELOPMENT 
 
In the County of Suffolk and the District of Mid Suffolk— 
A nationally significant infrastructure project as defined in sections 14(1)(a) and 15 of the 2008 
Act consisting of a generating station with a gross rated electrical output of between 50.1 – 
299MWe and associated development within the meaning of section 115(2) of the 2008 Act, 
comprising: 
Work No. 1A development comprising— 
(a) up to 5 gas turbine generators; and 
(b) up to 5 exhaust gas emission flue stacks, 
Work No. 1B development comprising— 
(a) an administration building; 
(b) a store; 
(c) a control room/office/workshop; 
(d) telemetry apparatus; 
(e) a black start diesel generator; 
(f) a raw/fire water tank and demineralised water storage tank; 
(g) a natural gas receiving station and gas treatment compound containing: 
(i) a pipeline inspection gauge (PIG) receiving facility; 
(ii) isolation valves, metering, heating, filtering, compression, pressure regulation 
equipment; 
(iii) electricity supply kiosk; and 
(iv) control and instrumentation kiosks, 
Work No. 1C development comprising a switchyard / banking compound containing up to seven 
transformers, switchgear building and other plant required to manage the transmission of 
electricity, 
Work No. 1D development comprising— 
(a) security infrastructure, including cameras, perimeter fencing and a gatehouse; 
(b) site lighting infrastructure, including perimeter lighting columns; 
(c) internal roadways, car parking, pedestrian network, cycle parking, hardstanding and water 
treatment trailers; 
(d) site drainage, attenuation pond and waste management infrastructure; 
(e) electricity, water, wastewater and telecommunications and other services; 
(f) landscaping including tree planting, fencing and other boundary treatments and ecological 
mitigation; 
(g) high voltage and low voltage cabling, equipment and controls and associated telemetry 
and electrical protection auxiliary cabling; 
(h) underground gas pipeline connection, associated telemetry and cathodic protection test / 
transformer rectifier unit; 
(i) other ancillary equipment; and 
 
27 
(j) new means of accesses from Potash Lane including permanent road surface, drainage, 
gates and fencing, 
Work No. 2 development comprising— 
(a) a maintenance compound including new hardstanding, 
(b) landscaping including tree planting, fencing and other boundary treatments; and 
(c) site drainage, 
Work No. 3A development comprising— 
(a) an above ground installation (also referred to as a minimum offtake connection 
compound) containing: 
(i) a minimum offtake connection comprising remotely operable valves, control and 
instrumentation kiosks and electrical supply kiosks; 
(ii) a pipeline inspection gauge (PIG) facility, comprising a PIG launching facility, 
emergency control valves, isolation valves, control and instrumentation kiosks, and 
electricity supply kiosks; 
(b) security infrastructure, including cameras, lighting (including perimeter lighting columns) 
and perimeter fencing; 
(c) site drainage and waste management infrastructure; 
(d) electricity and telecommunications connections and other services; 
(e) below ground sacrificial anode pit; and 
(f) landscaping including tree planting, fencing and other boundary treatments and ecological 
mitigation, 
Work No. 3B development comprising new means of access between Potash Lane and numbered 
work 3A, including signing and road markings works, permanent road surface, gates, fencing, 
drainage, infilling, landscaping and tree and hedge removal and other incidental works, 
Work No. 4 development comprising— 
(a) a new underground gas pipeline connection and telemetry cabling, approximately 1.7km 
in length connecting the natural gas receiving station and gas treatment compound in 
Work No. 1B to Work No. 3A; 
(b) pipeline field marker posts and cathodic protection test/ transformer rectifier unit; 
(c) below ground drainage works; 
(d) tree and hedge removal; and 
(e) landscaping including tree planting, fencing and other boundary treatments and ecological 
mitigation, 
Work No. 5 development comprising— 
(a) 400kV substation and site office and welfare accommodation; 
(b) 400kV cable sealing end compound; 
(c) underground high voltage electrical cables and associated telemetry and electrical 
protection auxiliary cabling; 
(d) security infrastructure including perimeter fencing with gates, security cameras and site 
lighting; 
(e) landscaping including bunds, tree planting, fencing and other boundary treatments and 
ecological mitigation; 
(f) site drainage and waste management infrastructure; and 
(g) internal roadways, car parking, pedestrian network and hardstanding for planned 
maintenance, 
Work No. 6 development comprising— 
 
28 
(a) an underground 400kV electrical cable circuit and associated telemetry and electrical 
protection auxiliary cabling, approximately 1.6km in length; and 
(b) joint bays in relation to Work No. 6a, 
Work No. 7 development comprising new means of access between Work No. 5 and the A140 
including road widening, new turning lane, signing and road markings works, permanent road 
surface, gates, fencing, drainage, infilling, landscaping and tree and hedge removal and other 
incidental works, 
and such other works or operations as may be necessary or expedient for the purposes of or in 
connection with the construction, operation and maintenance of the works in this Schedule 1 but 
only within the Order limits and do not give rise to any materially new or materially different 
environmental effects from those assessed in the environmental statement. 
 
 
 
29 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
Article 3 
REQUIREMENTS 
Time limits 
1. The authorised development must be commenced within 5 years of the date of this Order. 
Numbered Works 
2. Where these requirements refer to numbered work 1 or numbered work 3, such reference is to 
be taken to mean numbered works 1A to 1D (inclusive) and numbered works 3A and 3B 
respectively. 
Detailed Design 
3.—(1) The authorised development must be carried out in accordance with the approved plans, 
inclusive of any limits of deviation, bearing the references listed below and any other plans, 
drawings, documents, details, schemes, statements or strategies which are approved by the 
relevant planning authority pursuant to any requirement (as the same may be amended by approval 
of the relevant planning authority pursuant to requirement 23(1)): 
Table 1 
Works Plans 
Rights of Way, Streets and Access Plan 
(2) The authorised development must be carried out in accordance with the parameters specified 
below (as the same may be amended by approval of the relevant planning authority pursuant to 
requirement 23(1)): 
Table 2 
Building 
or 
structure 
Maximu
m height 
(metres 
above 
existing 
site level 
of 
approxim
ately 48.5 
metres 
AOD) 
Minimum 
height 
(metres 
above 
existing 
site level of 
approximat
ely 
48.5 
metres 
AOD) 
Maximum 
length 
(metres) 
Minimum 
length 
(metres) 
Maximum 
width 
(metres) 
Minimum 
width 
(metres) 
Each gas 
turbine 
generator 
(where one or 
two gas 
turbine 
generators 
are 
constructed) 
(Part of 
numbered 
work 1A) 
19.0 
– 
30.0 
– 
30.0 
– 
Each gas 
10.0 
– 
36.0 
– 
23.0 
– 
 
30 
Building 
or 
structure 
Maximu
m height 
(metres 
above 
existing 
site level 
of 
approxim
ately 48.5 
metres 
AOD) 
Minimum 
height 
(metres 
above 
existing 
site level of 
approximat
ely 
48.5 
metres 
AOD) 
Maximum 
length 
(metres) 
Minimum 
length 
(metres) 
Maximum 
width 
(metres) 
Minimum 
width 
(metres) 
turbine 
generator 
(where three, 
four or five 
gas turbine 
generators 
are 
constructed) 
(part of 
numbered 
work 1A) 
Each exhaust 
gas emission 
flue stack 
(where one or 
two gas 
turbine 
generators 
are 
constructed) 
(part of 
numbered 
work 1A) 
30.0 
25.0 
– 
– 
8.4 
– 
Each exhaust 
gas emission 
flue stack 
(where three, 
four or five 
gas turbine 
generators 
are 
constructed) 
(part of 
numbered 
work 1A) 
30.0 
25.0 
– 
– 
6.0 
– 
Control 
room/office/ 
workshop 
(part of 
numbered 
work 1B) 
6.0 
– 
29.0 
– 
23.0 
– 
Black start 
diesel 
generator 
(part of 
numbered 
5.0 
– 
13.0 
– 
5.0 
– 
 
31 
Building 
or 
structure 
Maximu
m height 
(metres 
above 
existing 
site level 
of 
approxim
ately 48.5 
metres 
AOD) 
Minimum 
height 
(metres 
above 
existing 
site level of 
approximat
ely 
48.5 
metres 
AOD) 
Maximum 
length 
(metres) 
Minimum 
length 
(metres) 
Maximum 
width 
(metres) 
Minimum 
width 
(metres) 
work 1B) 
Raw/fire 
water tank 
(part of 
numbered 
work 1B) 
11.0 
– 
11.0 
– 
11.0 
– 
Demineralise
d water tank 
(part of 
numbered 
work 1B) 
2.0 
– 
2.0 
– 
2.0 
– 
Gas receiving 
station (part 
of numbered 
work 1B) 
3.0 
– 
50.0 
– 
46.0 
– 
Switchyard / 
banking 
compound 
(numbered 
work 1C) 
11.3 
– 
60 
– 
60 
– 
Switchgear 
Building 
(part of 
numbered 
work 1C) 
11.3 
– 
21.0 
– 
15.0 
– 
Gatehouse 
(part of 
numbered 
work 1D) 
4.5 
– 
9.0 
– 
8.0 
– 
Above 
ground 
installation 
(numbered 
work 3A) 
3.0 
– 
72.0 
– 
52.0 
– 
Pipeline 
inspection 
gauge facility 
(part of 
numbered 
work 3A) 
2.0 
– 
36.0 
– 
27.0 
– 
Minimum 
offtake 
connection 
(part of 
numbered 
2.0 
– 
36.0 
– 
25.0 
– 
 
32 
Building 
or 
structure 
Maximu
m height 
(metres 
above 
existing 
site level 
of 
approxim
ately 48.5 
metres 
AOD) 
Minimum 
height 
(metres 
above 
existing 
site level of 
approximat
ely 
48.5 
metres 
AOD) 
Maximum 
length 
(metres) 
Minimum 
length 
(metres) 
Maximum 
width 
(metres) 
Minimum 
width 
(metres) 
work 3A) 
Sealing end 
compound 
(part of 
numbered 
work 5) 
12.5 
– 
22.0 
– 
45.0 
– 
Substation: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(gas insulated 
substation) – 
(maximum 
compound 
size) (part of 
numbered 
work 5) 
12.5 
– 
80.0 
– 
100.0 
– 
(gas insulated 
substation) - 
(indoor 
switchgear 
hall) (part of 
numbered 
work 5) 
12.5 
– 
21.0 
– 
62.0 
– 
 
(3) To the extent that design principles for any numbered work are set out in the design 
principles statement, that numbered work must be designed substantially in accordance with the 
relevant design principle set out therein. 
(4) Except to the extent approved pursuant to requirement 6, numbered works 1, 2, 3 and 5 may 
not commence until, for that numbered work, details of the layout, scale and external appearance 
of the numbered work have been submitted to and approved by the relevant planning authority. 
(5) In respect of numbered work 6a, the undertaker must utilise horizontal directional drilling as 
the installation method where the numbered work crosses the A140. 
(6) No part of numbered work 6a must commence until a method statement detailing measures 
to protect the integrity of the A140 from horizontal directional drilling or activities associated 
therewith has been submitted to and approved by the highway authority. The method statement 
must be implemented as approved. 
Provision of landscaping 
4.—(1) Each of numbered works 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 of the authorised development may not 
commence until a written landscaping plan for that numbered work has been submitted to and 
approved by the relevant planning authority. The landscaping plan must include details of all 
proposed hard and soft landscaping works and such plan is to be substantially in accordance with 
the landscaping mitigation proposals set out in the outline landscaping plans and the landscape 
mitigation strategy, and include details of— 
 
33 
(a) location, number, species, size and planting density of any proposed planting including 
details of any proposed tree planting and the proposed times of such planting, and details 
of protection measures including guards, stakes and deer fencing; 
(b) cultivation, importing of materials and other operations to ensure plant establishment; 
(c) bunds and proposed finished ground levels; 
(d) hard surfacing materials; 
(e) vehicular and pedestrian access, parking and circulation areas; 
(f) minor structures, such as furniture, refuse or other storage units, signs and lighting; 
(g) measures for the management of the ecological resources that will remain within the 
Order land on completion of the authorised development; 
(h) implementation timetables for all landscaping works; and 
(i) a scheme of landscape maintenance for the life of the authorised development (to include 
an aftercare protocol providing for joint annual inspections by the relevant planning 
authority and the undertaker for a period of ten years from the implementation date(s) as 
agreed pursuant to requirement 5(2)). 
Implementation and maintenance of landscaping 
5.—(1) All landscaping works must be carried out in accordance with the landscaping plan 
approved under requirement 4 in accordance with the relevant recommendations of appropriate 
British Standards. 
(2) The landscaping works must be carried out in accordance with implementation timetables 
approved in the landscaping plan. 
(3) Any tree or shrub planted as part of an approved landscaping scheme that, within a period of 
five years (save in relation to numbered works 1 and 5 which is to be seven years) after planting, 
is removed, dies or becomes, in the opinion of the relevant planning authority, seriously damaged 
or diseased, must be replaced in the first available planting season with a specimen of the same 
species and size as that originally planted, unless otherwise approved by the relevant planning 
authority. 
Highway accesses 
6.—(1) Each of numbered works 1, 3 and 7 of the authorised development must not commence 
until for that numbered work, written details of the siting, design and layout (to the extent either 
not provided as part of or differing from, the details contained in Schedule 1, the works plans or 
the rights of way, streets and access plan) of any new permanent or temporary means of access to 
a highway to be used by vehicular traffic (including those identified in Schedule 3), or any 
alteration to an existing means of access to a highway used by vehicular traffic has been submitted 
to and approved by the relevant planning authority (in consultation with the highway authority). 
(2) The highway accesses must be constructed in accordance with the approved details and 
substantially in accordance with the drawing at Appendix A and Appendix B to the outline 
construction traffic management plan. 
(3) Prior to the date of final commissioning, a reinstatement plan for those elements of 
numbered work 7 which enable connectivity between Old Norwich Road and the A140 must be 
submitted to and approved by the relevant planning authority, in consultation with the highway 
authority.  The reinstatement plan must include— 
(a) measures to reinstate the A140 carriageway to its pre-construction condition; and 
(b) a landscaping plan showing how the land outside the A140 carriageway will be 
reinstated. 
(4) The reinstatement plan must be implemented as approved. 
 
34 
Fencing and other means of enclosure 
7.—(1) Each of numbered works 1, 3 and 5 of the authorised development must not commence 
until written details of all proposed permanent and temporary fences, walls or other means of 
enclosure for that numbered work have been submitted to and approved by the relevant planning 
authority. 
(2) Any construction sites must remain securely fenced at all times during construction of the 
authorised development. 
(3) Any temporary fencing must be removed within three months of the completion of the 
authorised development. 
(4) The details approved pursuant to this requirement must be implemented. 
Surface and foul water drainage 
8.—(1) Each of numbered works 1, 2, 3, 5 and 7 must not be commenced until, for that 
numbered work, written details of the surface and foul water drainage strategy (including means of 
pollution control and measures designed to control surface water during construction) for 
construction and operational phases of the project have been submitted to and approved by the 
relevant planning authority, in consultation with the Environment Agency, such strategy to be in 
accordance with the principles set out in Section 5 of the flood risk assessment. 
(2) The surface and foul water drainage system must be constructed in accordance with the 
approved details before the operational phase of that part of the authorised development 
commences. 
Archaeology 
9.—(1) Each of numbered works 1 - 7 must not be commenced until for that numbered work a 
written scheme of archaeological investigation covering that numbered work has been submitted 
to and approved in writing by the relevant planning authority, in consultation with Suffolk County 
Council. The written scheme of archaeological investigation must be substantially in accordance 
with the stage 2 written scheme of archaeological investigation. 
(2) Following completion of the investigations set out in the approved written scheme of 
archaeological investigation and prior to the commencement of each of numbered works 1 - 7, a 
written scheme regarding archaeological mitigation measures for that numbered work must be 
submitted to and approved in writing by the relevant planning authority, in consultation with 
Suffolk County Council and must include the following— 
(a) an archaeological and historical background; 
(b) the rationale, programme and methodology of site investigation and recording; 
(c) the programme for post-investigation interpretation; 
(d) provision to be made for publication and dissemination of the results of the site 
investigation, including for public benefit and understanding, should the nature of the 
archaeology warrant it; 
(e) provision to be made for the deposition of the finds assemblage and the site archive; 
(f) provision to be made for a programme of excavation fieldwork and post-excavation 
assessment should significant archaeological remains be encountered, and where 
warranted post-excavation analysis; and 
(g) nomination of a competent person or persons/organisation with appropriate local / 
regional expertise to undertake the works set out within the written scheme of 
investigation. 
(3) Any archaeological works must be carried out in accordance with the schemes approved 
pursuant to sub-paragraphs (1) and (2). 
 
35 
(4) Any site investigation and post-investigation interpretation must be completed for the 
relevant numbered work(s) in accordance with the programme set out in the schemes approved 
pursuant to sub-paragraphs (1) and (2). 
Ecological management plan 
10.—(1) Each of numbered works 1 to 7 must not be commenced until, for that numbered work, 
a written ecological management plan substantially reflecting the ecological mitigation and 
enhancement measures and surveys set out in the ecological management strategy has been 
submitted to and approved by the relevant planning authority, in consultation with Natural 
England. 
(2) The ecological management plan must include an implementation timetable and must be 
carried out as approved. 
Construction Environment Management Plan 
11.—(1) Each of numbered works 1 to 7 must not be commenced until a construction 
environment management plan covering that numbered work has been submitted to and approved 
by the relevant planning authority, in consultation with the Environment Agency. The final 
construction environment management plan must be substantially in accordance with the outline 
construction environment management plan and must include the following— 
(a) complaints procedures; 
(b) nuisance management including measures to avoid or minimise the impacts of 
construction works (covering dust, noise and vibration); 
(c) waste management; 
(d) an assessment of the site specific risks to and mitigation measures designed to protect 
controlled waters (surface and groundwaters) including pollution incident control; 
(e) landscape and visual impact mitigation (specifically the protection of trees and hedgerows 
to be retained in accordance with BS 5837: 2012 (or its updates) and a scheme to 
minimise visual intrusion of the construction works); 
(f) security measures; 
(g) protocol in relation to unexploded ordnance; 
(h) save in respect of numbered work 1, a protocol in the event that unexpected contaminated 
land is identified during ground investigation or construction;  
(i) restoration of site following completion of construction; 
(j) the requirement for completion of a soil resources survey, details of methods for soil 
handling, storage and replacement during construction and details of the aftercare 
programme; and 
(k) A scheme of artificial lighting. 
(2) All construction works must be undertaken in accordance with the approved construction 
environment management plan. 
Land contamination 
12.—(1) No part of numbered work 1 may commence until a written scheme (which may be 
included in the construction environment management plan) to deal with the contamination of any 
land, including groundwater, within the Order limits which is likely to cause significant harm to 
persons or significant pollution of controlled waters or ground waters or the environment has been 
submitted to and approved by the relevant planning authority in consultation with the Environment 
Agency. 
(2) The scheme must include an investigation and assessment report, prepared by a specialist 
consultant approved by the relevant planning authority, to identify the extent of any contamination 
and a remediation strategy identifying the remedial measures to be taken, if required, to render the 
 
36 
land fit for its intended purpose, together with a management plan (as necessary) which sets out 
long-term measures with respect to any contaminants remaining on the site and a verification plan 
outlining how achieving the remedial objectives will be demonstrated. 
(3) Remediation, if required, must be carried out in accordance with the scheme approved under 
sub-paragraph (1). 
(4) A verification report demonstrating completion of any remediation works and the 
effectiveness of the remediation must be submitted to and approved, in writing, by the local 
planning authority in consultation with the Environment Agency. 
Construction traffic 
13.—(1) No numbered work may commence until a construction traffic management plan has 
been submitted to and approved by the relevant planning authority in consultation with the 
highway authority. The construction traffic management plan must be substantially in accordance 
with the outline construction traffic management plan and must include the following— 
(a) construction vehicle routing plans; 
(b) details of a vehicle tracking system; 
(c) evidence of appropriate trial runs that demonstrate the suitability of the route from point 
of entry onto the trunk road network to the site for the proposed types of abnormal 
indivisible loads; 
(d) site access plans; 
(e) proposals for the management of junctions to and crossings of highways and other public 
rights of way; 
(f) proposals for the scheduling and timing of movements of delivery vehicles including 
details of abnormal indivisible loads; 
(g) details of escorts for abnormal indivisible loads; 
(h) proposals for temporary warning signs and banksman and escort details; 
(i) proposals for assessing the existing condition of affected highways; 
(j) details of any temporary or permanent improvements to highways; 
(k) proposals for the making good of any incidental damage to highways by construction 
traffic associated with the authorised development including street furniture, structures, 
drainage features, highway verge and carriageway surfaces; and 
(l) proposals for traffic management controls (such as temporary signals), diversion routes 
and signage required during any of the activities, operations or works associated with the 
creation or upgrading of any permanent or temporary means of access pursuant to this 
Order. 
(2) The construction traffic management plan must be implemented as approved. 
(3) During the operation or decommissioning of the generating station no abnormal indivisible 
loads may be transported into or out of the site without the prior written approval of the relevant 
planning authority in consultation the highway authority. 
Construction Travel Plan 
14.—(1) No numbered work may commence until a construction worker travel plan has been 
submitted to and approved by the relevant planning authority in consultation with the highway 
authority. The construction worker travel plan must be substantially in accordance with the travel 
plan (other than the measures which relate to the operational phase). 
(2) The construction worker travel plan must be carried out as approved. 
 
37 
Travel plan during operational phase 
15.—(1) Prior to the date of final commissioning a written operational travel plan must be 
submitted to and approved by the relevant planning authority. The operational travel plan must be 
substantially in accordance with the outline measures to propose sustainable transport during the 
operational phase set out in the travel plan (other than the measures which relate to the 
construction phase). 
(2) The operational travel plan must be carried out as approved. 
Construction hours 
16.—(1) Subject to sub-paragraph (2) no construction work, or the delivery or removal of 
materials, may take place on any Sunday or public holiday and no construction work, or the 
delivery or removal of materials, may take place outside the hours of— 
(a) 0700 and 1900 hours on weekdays; and 
(b) 0700 and 1300 hours on Saturdays. 
(2) Sub-paragraph (1) does not prevent construction works, or the delivery or removal of 
materials, being carried out on public holidays or outside the hours set out in sub-paragraph (1) 
with the prior written approval of the relevant planning authority. 
(3) Nothing in sub-paragraph (1) precludes a start-up period from 0630 to 0700 and a shut down 
period from 1900 to 1930 on weekdays (excluding public holidays) and start-up period from 0630 
to 0700 and a shut down period from 1300 to 1330 on a Saturday. 
Control of noise during operational phase 
17.—(1) Following the date of final commissioning of numbered work 1, site-attributable noise 
attributable to numbered work 1 during the operational phase must be limited to the noise levels 
set out below measured at the coordinates set out below: 
Table 3 
Noise Limit Sound Pressure Level, 
LAeq, 5mins dB 
Coordinates 
X 
Y 
57 
613272.4 
275205.6 
55 
613214.4 
275014.8 
52 
613131.2 
275156.8 
(2) Noise measurements at each of the identified locations must be undertaken in accordance 
with the equipment specifications, measurement procedures and monitoring equipment positioning 
guidelines outlined in sections 4, 5 and 6 (save for 6.3.5 and 6.3.6 which are not applicable) of BS 
4142:1997. Measurements should be undertaken with the power plant running at base load. A 
single LAeq 5min measurement will be required at each identified location during the day, 
evening and night time periods identified as follows: daytime (0700hrs to 1900hrs), evening 
(1900hrs to 2300hrs) and night time (2300hrs to 0700hrs). 
(3) Within three months of the date of final commissioning of numbered work 1, the undertaker 
must submit measurements to the relevant planning authority taken in the vicinity of the relevant 
locations specified at sub-paragraph (1) of this requirement, including details of any remedial 
works and a programme of implementation should the emissions exceed the levels specified at 
sub-paragraph (1) of this requirement. 
Control of artificial light emissions during operational phase 
18.—(1) Each of numbered works 1, 3 and 5 must not commence until, after consultation with 
the relevant planning authority, a written scheme for the management and mitigation of artificial 
light emissions for that numbered work which is substantially in accordance with the outline 
lighting strategy has been submitted to and approved by the relevant planning authority. 
 
38 
(2) The approved scheme for the management and mitigation of artificial light emissions must 
be implemented before and maintained during the operation of the relevant numbered work 
European protected species 
19.—(1) Each of numbered works 1-7 must not commence until further supplemental survey 
work identified in the ecological management strategy and ecological management plan for 
European protected species has been carried out covering that numbered work to establish whether 
European protected species are present. 
(2) Where a European protected species is shown to be present, no authorised development of 
that numbered work may be begun until, after consultation with Natural England, a scheme of 
protection and mitigation measures has been submitted to and approved by the relevant planning 
authority and the authorised development must be carried out in accordance with the approved 
scheme. 
(3) “European protected species” has the same meaning as in regulations 40 and 44 of the 
Conservation of Habitats and Species Regulations 2010(a). 
Operation of the authorised development 
20.—(1) In any calendar year the operation of the gas turbine generators comprised in numbered 
work 1A shall not exceed 1500 hours in total. 
(2) Within three months of the end of a calendar year, the undertaker must submit a written 
report to the relevant planning authority detailing the actual total number of hours of operation of 
the gas turbine generators comprised in numbered work 1A. 
(3) For the purposes of this requirement, “operation of the gas turbine generators” means the 
duration in which any energy is exported at the settlement metering point, being the point at which 
a supply to the transmission system from the authorised development is measured. 
Decommissioning strategy 
21.—(1) Subject to obtaining the necessary consents, unless otherwise agreed with the relevant 
planning authority, within twenty four months of the site ceasing to be used for the purposes of 
electricity generation (either actively generating electricity or being available to generate 
electricity on a standby basis), a scheme for the demolition and removal of numbered works 1, 2, 
3, 5 and any other un-numbered works carried out as necessary or expedient for the purposes of 
those numbered works must be submitted to the relevant planning authority. 
(2) The demolition and removal of works must be implemented in accordance with the approved 
scheme. 
(3) On the one year anniversary of the site ceasing to be used for the purposes of electricity 
generation (either actively generating electricity or being available to generate electricity on a 
standby basis) the undertaker must notify the relevant planning authority of the same. 
Amendments to approved details 
22.—(1) With respect to the approved plans specified in requirement 3(1), the parameters 
specified in requirement 3(2) and any other plans, details or schemes which require approval by 
the relevant planning authority pursuant to any other requirement (the “Approved Plans, 
Parameters, Details or Schemes”), the undertaker may submit to the relevant planning authority 
for approval any amendments to the Approved Plans, Parameters, Details or Schemes and 
following any such approval by the relevant planning authority the Approved Plans, Parameters, 
Details or Schemes is to be taken to include the amendments approved pursuant to this sub-
paragraph. 
(a) S.I. 2010/490. There are amendments to these Regulations which are not relevant to this Order. 
 
39 
                                                                                                                                            
(2) Approval under sub-paragraph (1) for amendments to the parameters identified in 
requirement 3(2) above must not be given except where it has been demonstrated to the 
satisfaction of the relevant planning authority that the subject-matter of the approval sought does 
not give rise to any materially new or materially different environmental effects in comparison 
with the authorised development as approved (as identified in the environmental statement). 
 
 
 
40 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
Articles 10 and 14 
STREETS SUBJECT TO PERMANENT AND TEMPORARY 
ALTERATION OF LAYOUT 
 
PART 1 
PERMANENT ALTERATION OF LAYOUT 
Table 4 
(1) 
Area 
(2) 
Street subject to alteration of 
layout 
(3) 
Description of alteration 
In the District of Mid Suffolk 
Potash Lane 
The lowering of the levels of 
the kerb between the points 
marked A and B on the rights 
of way, streets and access plan 
to provide permanent access to 
numbered work 3A. 
In the District of Mid Suffolk 
Old Norwich Road 
Creation of new access 
comprising part of numbered 
work 7 including the lowering 
of the levels of the kerb 
between the points marked M 
and N on the rights of way, 
streets and access plan to 
provide permanent access to 
numbered work 5. 
In the District of Mid Suffolk 
Access Road Serving Yaxley 
Lake 
Upgrading of the existing 
access comprising part of 
numbered work 7 between the 
points marked O1 and P on the 
rights of way, streets and 
access plan to provide 
permanent access to numbered 
work 5. 
In the District of Mid Suffolk 
Leys Lane 
Works to facilitate the creation 
of a new access comprising 
part of numbered work 7 
between the points marked Q - 
R on the rights of way, streets 
and access plan to provide 
permanent access to numbered 
work 5. 
 
 
 
41 
PART 2 
TEMPORARY ALTERATION OF LAYOUT 
Table 5 
(1) 
Area 
(2) 
Street subject to alteration of 
layout 
(3) 
Description of alteration 
In the District of Mid Suffolk 
Potash Lane 
The lowering of the levels of 
the kerb between the points 
marked B and C on the rights 
of way, streets and access plan 
to provide temporary access to 
numbered work 3 during 
construction. 
In the District of Mid Suffolk 
A140 
Creation of new access 
comprising part of numbered 
work 7 including the lowering 
of the levels of the kerb 
between the points marked K 
and L on the rights of way, 
streets and access plan to 
provide temporary access to 
numbered work 5 during 
construction. 
 
 
 
42 
 
SCHEDULE 4 
Article 11 
STREETS SUBJECT TO STREET WORKS 
 
Table 6 
(1) 
Area 
(2) 
Street Subject to Street Works 
(3) 
Description of the street works 
In the District of Mid Suffolk 
Potash Lane 
Works for numbered work 3B 
including installation of 
drainage between the points 
marked A and B on the rights 
of way, streets and access 
plan. 
In the District of Mid Suffolk 
Part of disused runway 
complex 
Works for numbered work 4 to 
be installed within that part of 
the disused runway complex 
between the points marked D - 
E on the rights of way, streets 
and access plan. 
In the District of Mid Suffolk 
Part of disused runway 
complex 
Works for numbered works 4 
and/or 6 to be installed within 
that part of the disused runway 
complex between the points 
marked H - I on the rights of 
way, streets and access plan. 
In the District of Mid Suffolk 
A140 
Works for the provision of a 
new temporary access during 
construction comprising part 
of numbered work 7 between 
the points marked K and L on 
the rights of way, streets and 
access plan. 
In the District of Mid Suffolk 
Old Norwich Road 
Works for the provision of a 
new permanent access 
comprising part of numbered 
work 7 between the points 
marked M and N on the rights 
of way, streets and access 
plan. 
In the District of Mid Suffolk 
Access Road Serving Yaxley 
Lake 
Works for the provision of a 
new permanent access 
comprising part of numbered 
work 7 between the points 
marked O1 and P on the rights 
of way, streets and access 
plan. 
In the District of Mid Suffolk 
Leys Lane 
Works for numbered work 6 to 
be installed in the street 
between the points marked Q -
R on the rights of way, streets 
and access plan. 
 
43 
(1) 
Area 
(2) 
Street Subject to Street Works 
(3) 
Description of the street works 
In the District of Mid Suffolk 
Potash Lane 
Works for numbered works 4 
and 6 to be installed in the 
street between the points 
marked T -U on the rights of 
way, streets and access plan. 
In the District of Mid Suffolk 
Footpaths numbered W-
583/009/0 and W 239/015/0 
Works for numbered works 4 
and 6 to be installed in the 
street between the points 
marked V and W on the rights 
of way, streets and access 
plan. 
 
 
 
44 
 
SCHEDULE 5 
Article 13 
TEMPORARY PROHIBITION OR RESTRICTION OF THE USE OF 
STREETS 
 
Table 7 
(1) 
Area 
(2) 
Street subject to temporary 
prohibition or restriction of 
use 
(3) 
Extent of temporary 
prohibition or restriction of 
use of streets 
In the District of  Mid Suffolk 
Potash Lane 
Prohibition/Restriction: 
From the points marked A to B 
on the rights of way, streets 
and access plan, being 
approximately 30 metres. 
Purpose of the 
Prohibition/Restriction: 
Temporary closure of part of 
the street to cover numbered 
work 3B providing access to 
3A. 
In the District of Mid Suffolk 
Potash Lane 
Prohibition/Restriction: 
From the points marked B to C 
on the rights of way, streets 
and access plan, being 
approximately 56 metres. 
Purpose of the 
Prohibition/Restriction: 
Temporary closure of part of 
the street to provide a 
temporary access to numbered 
work 3. 
In the District of Mid Suffolk 
Part of disused runway 
complex 
Prohibition/Restriction: 
From the points marked D - F 
on the rights of way, streets 
and access plan being 
approximately 51 metres. 
Purpose of the 
Prohibition/Restriction: 
Temporary closure of part of 
the street to cover numbered 
work 4 crossing and being 
installed. 
 
45 
(1) 
Area 
(2) 
Street subject to temporary 
prohibition or restriction of 
use 
(3) 
Extent of temporary 
prohibition or restriction of 
use of streets 
In the District of Mid Suffolk 
Potash Lane 
Prohibition/Restriction: 
From the points marked G – J1 
on the rights of way, streets 
and access plan being 
approximately 96 metres. 
Purpose of the 
Prohibition/Restriction: 
Temporary closure of part of 
the street to cover numbered 
works 4 and 6 crossing and 
being installed. 
In the District of Mid Suffolk 
Part of disused runway 
complex 
Prohibition/Restriction: 
From the points marked J1 – 
J2 on the rights of way, streets 
and access plan being 
approximately metres. 
Purpose of the 
Prohibition/Restriction: 
Temporary closure of part of 
the street to cover numbered 
works 4 and 6 crossing and 
being installed. 
In the District of Mid Suffolk 
A140 
Prohibition/Restriction: 
From the points marked K - L 
on the rights of way, streets 
and access plan being 
approximately 598 metres. 
Purpose of the 
Prohibition/Restriction: 
Temporary closure of part of 
the street to cover part of 
numbered work 7 providing 
access to numbered work 5. 
In the District of Mid Suffolk 
A140 
Prohibition/Restriction: 
From the points marked K - L 
on the rights of way, streets 
and access plan being 
approximately 598 metres. 
Purpose of the 
Prohibition/Restriction: 
Temporary closure of part of 
the street to cover the 
reinstatement of part of 
numbered work 7 providing 
access to numbered work 5. 
 
46 
(1) 
Area 
(2) 
Street subject to temporary 
prohibition or restriction of 
use 
(3) 
Extent of temporary 
prohibition or restriction of 
use of streets 
In the District of Mid Suffolk 
Old Norwich Road 
Prohibition/Restriction: 
From the points marked M - N 
on the rights of way, streets 
and access plan being 
approximately 143 metres. 
Purpose of the 
Prohibition/Restriction: 
Temporary closure of part of 
the street to cover part of 
numbered work 7 providing 
access to numbered work 5. 
In the District of Mid Suffolk 
Access Road Serving Yaxley 
Lake 
Prohibition/Restriction: 
From the points marked O1 - P 
on the rights of way, streets 
and access plan being 
approximately 190 metres. 
Purpose of the 
Prohibition/Restriction: 
Temporary closure of part of 
the street to cover part of 
numbered work 7 providing 
access to numbered work 5. 
In the District of Mid Suffolk 
Leys Lane 
Prohibition/Restriction: 
From the points marked Q - R 
on the rights of way, streets 
and access plan being 
approximately 20 metres. 
Purpose of the 
Prohibition/Restriction: 
Temporary closure of part of 
the street to cover numbered 
work 6 being installed in the 
street. 
In the District of Mid Suffolk 
Potash Lane 
Prohibition/Restriction: 
From the points marked S-T 
on the rights of way, streets 
and access plan being 
approximately 23 metres. 
Purpose of the 
Prohibition/Restriction: 
Temporary closure of part of 
the street for temporary works 
associated with numbered 
works 4 and 6 being installed 
in the street. 
 
47 
(1) 
Area 
(2) 
Street subject to temporary 
prohibition or restriction of 
use 
(3) 
Extent of temporary 
prohibition or restriction of 
use of streets 
In the District of Mid Suffolk 
Potash Lane 
Prohibition/Restriction: 
From the points marked T -U 
on the rights of way, streets 
and access plan being 
approximately 227 metres. 
Purpose of the 
Prohibition/Restriction: 
Temporary closure of part of 
the street to cover numbered 
works 4 and 6 being installed 
in the street. 
In the District of Mid Suffolk 
Footpaths numbered W-
583/009/0 and W 239/015/0 
Prohibition/Restriction: 
From the points marked V to 
W on the rights of way, streets 
and access plan being 
approximately 77 metres. 
Purpose of the 
Prohibition/Restriction: 
Partially restrict the footpath to 
cover numbered works 4 and 6 
being installed in the street and 
to facilitate the creation of 
numbered work 2. 
In the District of Mid Suffolk 
Castleton Way 
Prohibition/Restriction: 
At a distance of no greater 
than 30 metres along Castleton 
Way and no more than 15 
metres along Potash Lane at 
the Castleton Way/Potash 
Lane junction. 
Purpose of the 
Prohibition/Restriction: 
To manage articulated 
vehicles, with the use of 4 
banksmen, during construction 
from accessing and exiting 
Potash Lane. 
 
 
 
48 
 
SCHEDULE 6 
Article 12 
ACCESS 
PART 1 
THOSE PARTS OF THE ACCESSES TO BE MAINTAINED AT THE PUBLIC 
EXPENSE 
Table 8 
(1) 
Location 
(2) 
Street 
(3) 
Description of relevant part of 
access 
In the District of Mid Suffolk 
A140 
The new access constituting 
part of numbered work 7 and 
shown on the rights of way, 
streets and access plan hatched 
blue between points K and L. 
In the District of Mid Suffolk 
A140 
The reinstated access  pursuant 
to requirement 6(3) and shown 
on the rights of way, streets 
and access plan hatched blue 
between points K and L. 
In the District of Mid Suffolk 
Old Norwich Road 
The new access constituting 
part of numbered work 7 and 
shown on the rights of way, 
streets and access plan hatched 
blue between points M and N. 
 
 
 
49 
PART 2 
THOSE PARTS OF THE ACCESSES TO BE MAINTAINED BY THE STREET 
AUTHORITY 
 
Table 9 
(1) 
Location 
(2) 
Street 
(3) 
Description of access 
In the District of Mid Suffolk 
Potash Lane 
The new access constituting 
numbered work 3B and shown 
on the rights of way, streets 
and access plan hatched red 
between points A and B. 
In the District of Mid Suffolk 
A140 
The new access constituting 
part of numbered work 7 and 
shown on the rights of way, 
streets and access plan hatched 
red between points K and L. 
In the District of Mid Suffolk 
Old Norwich Road 
The new access constituting 
part of numbered work 7 and 
shown on the rights of way, 
streets and access plan hatched 
red between points M and N. 
In the District of Mid Suffolk 
Access Road Serving Yaxley 
Lake 
The new access constituting 
part of numbered work 7 and 
shown on the rights of way, 
streets and access plan hatched 
red between points O1 and P. 
In the District of Mid Suffolk 
Means of access 
The new access constituting 
part of numbered work 7 and 
shown on the rights of way, 
streets and access plan hatched 
red between points P – O2. 
 
 
 
50 
PART 3 
THOSE WORKS TO RESTORE TEMPORARY ACCESSES WHICH WILL BE 
MAINTAINED BY THE STREET AUTHORITY 
Table 10 
(1) 
Location 
(2) 
Street 
(3) 
Description of relevant part of 
access 
In the District of Mid Suffolk 
Potash Lane 
Those areas between the points 
marked B and C on the rights 
of way, streets and access plan 
hatched red. 
 
 
 
51 
 
SCHEDULE 7 
Article 22 
MODIFICATION OF COMPENSATION AND COMPULSORY 
PURCHASE ENACTMENTS FOR CREATION OF NEW RIGHTS 
 
Compensation enactments 
1. The enactments for the time being in force with respect to compensation for the compulsory 
purchase of land apply, with the necessary modifications as respects compensation, in the case of a 
compulsory acquisition under this Order of a right by the creation of a new right as they apply as 
respects compensation on the compulsory purchase of land and interests in land. 
2.—(1) Without prejudice to the generality of paragraph 1, the Land Compensation Act 1973(a) 
has effect subject to the modifications set out in sub-paragraph (2) and (3). 
(2) In section 44(1) (compensation for injurious affection), as it applies to compensation for 
injurious affection under section 7 of the 1965 Act as substituted by paragraph 4— 
(a) for the words “land is acquired or taken” there are substituted the words “a right or 
restrictive covenant over land is purchased from or imposed on”; and 
(b) for the words “acquired or taken from him” there are substituted the words “over which 
the right is exercisable or the restrictive covenant enforceable”. 
(3) In section 58(1) (determination of material detriment where part of house etc. proposed for 
compulsory acquisition), as it applies to determinations under section 8 of the 1965 Act as 
substituted by paragraph 5— 
(a) for the word “part” in paragraph (a) and (b) there are substituted the words “a right over 
or restrictive covenant affecting land consisting”; 
(b) for the word “severance” there are substituted the words “right or restrictive covenant 
over or affecting the whole of the park or garden”; 
(c) for the words “part proposed” there are substituted the words “right or restrictive 
covenant proposed”; and 
(d) for the words “part is” there are substituted the words “right or restrictive covenant is”. 
Application of the 1965 Act 
3.—(1) The 1965 Act has effect with the modifications necessary to make it apply to the 
compulsory acquisition under this Order of a right by the creation of a new right, or to the 
imposition under this Order of a restrictive covenant, as it applies to the compulsory acquisition 
under this Order of land, so that, in appropriate contexts, references in that Act to land are read 
(according to the requirements of the particular context) as referring to, or as including references 
to— 
(a) the right acquired or to be acquired; or 
(b) the land over which the right is or is to be exercisable. 
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of sub-paragraph (1), Part 1 of the 1965 Act applies in 
relation to the compulsory acquisition under this Order of a right by the creation of a new right 
with the modifications specified in the following provisions of this Schedule. 
4. For section 7 of the 1965 Act (measure of compensation) there is substituted the following 
section— 
“7. In assessing the compensation to be paid by the acquiring authority under this Act, regard 
must be had not only to the extent (if any) to which the value of the land over which the right 
(a) 1973 c.26. 
 
52 
                                                                                                                                            
is to be acquired or the restrictive covenant is to be imposed is depreciated by the acquisition 
of the right or the imposition of the covenant but also to the damage (if any) to be sustained by 
the owner of the land by reason of its severance from other land of the owner, or injuriously 
affecting that other land by the exercise of the powers conferred by this or the special Act.”. 
5. For section 8 of the 1965 Act (provisions as to divided land) there is substituted the following 
section— 
“8.—(1) Where in consequence of the service on a person under section 5 of this Act of a 
notice to treat in respect of a right over land consisting of a house, building or manufactory 
or of a park or garden belonging to a house (“the relevant land”)— 
(a) a question of disputed compensation in respect of the purchase of the right or the 
imposition of the restrictive covenant would apart from this section fall to be 
determined by the Upper Tribunal (“the tribunal”); and 
(b) before the tribunal has determined that question the tribunal is satisfied that the 
person has an interest in the whole of the relevant land and is able and willing to 
sell that land and— 
(i) 
where that land consists of a house, building or manufactory, that the 
right cannot be purchased or the restrictive covenant imposed without 
material detriment to that land; or 
(ii) 
where the land consists of such a park or garden, that the right cannot 
be purchased or the restrictive covenant imposed without seriously 
affecting the amenity or convenience of the house to which that land 
belongs, 
The Progress Power (Gas Fired Power Station) Order 201[X] (“the Order”) ceases, in 
relation to that person, to authorise the purchase of the right and be deemed to authorise the 
purchase of that person’s interest in the whole of the relevant land including, where the land 
consists of such a park or garden, the house to which it belongs, and the notice is deemed to 
authorise the purchase of that person’s interest in the whole of the relevant land including, 
where the land consists of such a park or garden, the house to which it belongs, and the 
notice is deemed to have been served in respect of that interest on such date as the tribunal 
directs. 
(2) Any question as to the extent of the land in which the Order is deemed to authorise the 
purchase of an interest by virtue of subsection (1) of this section must be determined by the 
tribunal. 
(3) Where in consequence of a determination of the tribunal that it is satisfied as 
mentioned in subsection (1) of this section the Order is deemed by virtue of that subsection 
to authorise the purchase of an interest in land, the acquiring authority may, at any time 
within the period of 6 weeks beginning with the date of the determination, withdraw the 
notice to treat in consequence of which the determination was made; but nothing in this 
subsection prejudices any other power of the authority to withdraw the notice.”. 
6. The following provisions of the 1965 Act (which state the effect of a deed poll executed in 
various circumstances where there is no conveyance by persons with interests in the land), that is 
to say— 
(a) section 9(4) (failure by owners to convey); 
(b) paragraph 10(3) of Schedule 1 (owners under incapacity); 
(c) paragraph 2(3) of Schedule 2 (absent and untraced owners); and 
(d) paragraphs 2(3) and 7(2) of Schedule 4 (common land), 
are so modified as to secure that, as against persons with interests in the land which are expressed 
to be overridden by the deed, the right which is to be compulsorily acquired or the restrictive 
covenant which is to be imposed is vested absolutely in the acquiring authority. 
 
53 
7. Section 11 of the 1965 Act (powers of entry) is modified as to secure that, as from the date on 
which the acquiring authority has served notice to treat in respect of any right it has power, 
exercisable in equivalent circumstances and subject to equivalent conditions, to enter for the 
purpose of exercising that right or enforcing that restrictive covenant (which is deemed for this 
purpose to have been created on that date of service of the notice); and sections 12 (penalty for 
unauthorised entry) and 13 (entry on warrant in the event of obstruction) of the 1965 Act are 
modified correspondingly. 
8. Section 20 of the 1965 Act (protection for interests of tenants at will, etc.) applies with the 
modifications necessary to secure that persons with such interests in land as are mentioned in that 
section are compensated in a manner corresponding to that in which they would be compensated 
on a compulsory acquisition under this Order of that land, but taking into account only the extent 
(if any) of such interference with such an interest as is actually caused, or likely to be caused, by 
the exercise of the right or the enforcement of the restrictive covenant in question. 
9. Section 22 of the 1965 Act (protection of acquiring authority’s possession where by 
inadvertence an estate, right or interest has not been got in) is modified as to enable the acquiring 
authority, in circumstances corresponding to those referred to in that section, to continue to be 
entitled to exercise the right acquired, subject to compliance with that section as respects 
compensation. 
 
 
 
54 
 
SCHEDULE 8 
Article 28 
LAND OF WHICH TEMPORARY POSSESSION MAY BE TAKEN 
 
Table 11 
(1) 
Location 
(2) 
Number of land shown 
on land plans 
(3) 
Purpose for which 
temporary possession 
may be taken 
(4) 
Relevant part of the 
authorised 
development 
Part of public footpath 
numbered W-
583/009/0 situated to 
the east of Oaksmere 
Business Park, Eye 
1a_GR 
Temporary use to 
facilitate construction 
for the numbered 
work 4 
Part of numbered 
work 4 
Land forming part of 
the disused runway 
complex at Eye 
Airfield situated to the 
east of Oaksmere 
Business Park, Eye 
2a_GR 
Temporary use to 
facilitate construction 
for the numbered 
work 4 
Part of numbered 
work 4 
Land forming part of 
the disused runway 
complex at Eye 
Airfield situated to the 
south east of 
Oaksmere Business 
Park, Eye 
2b_GR 
Temporary use 
(including the passing 
and re-passing of 
vehicles) to facilitate 
construction for the 
numbered work 4 
Part of numbered 
work 4 
Land forming part of 
the private access road 
known as Potash Lane 
situated to the south 
east of Oaksmere 
Business Park, Eye 
3a_GR 
Temporary use to 
facilitate construction 
for the numbered 
work 4 
Part of numbered 
work 4 
Part of agricultural 
land, part of wooded 
area and part of an 
access track forming 
part of White House 
Farm situated to the 
south of Oaksmere 
Business Park, east of 
the A140 and north of 
Castleton Way, Eye 
4a_GR 
Temporary use to 
facilitate construction 
for the numbered 
work 4 
Part of numbered 
work 4 
Land forming part of 
the private access road 
known as Potash Lane 
leading from 
Castleton Way to the 
disused runway 
complex at Eye 
Airfield, Eye 
6a_GR 
Temporary use to 
facilitate construction 
for the numbered 
works 3B and 4 
Part of numbered 
work 4 
 
55 
(1) 
Location 
(2) 
Number of land shown 
on land plans 
(3) 
Purpose for which 
temporary possession 
may be taken 
(4) 
Relevant part of the 
authorised 
development 
Part of agricultural 
land forming part of 
White House Farm 
situated north of 
Castleton Way and to 
the east of the access 
road leading from 
Castleton Way to the 
disused runway 
complex at Eye 
Airfield, Eye 
7a_GR 
Temporary use to 
facilitate construction 
for the numbered 
works 3A and 4 
Part of numbered 
works 3A and 4 
Part of public footpath 
numbered W-
583/009/0 situated to 
the east of Oaksmere 
Business Park and to 
the south west of the 
National Grid Gas 
compound, Eye 
1a_ER 
Temporary use to 
facilitate construction 
for the numbered 
work 6 
Part of numbered 
work 6 
Land forming part of 
the disused runway 
complex at Eye 
Airfield situated to the 
east of Oaksmere 
Business Park and to 
the south west of the 
National Grid Gas 
compound, Eye 
2a_ER 
Temporary use to 
facilitate construction 
for the numbered 
work 6 
Part of numbered 
work 6 
Land forming part of 
the disused runway 
complex at Eye 
Airfield situated to the 
south east of 
Oaksmere Business 
Park and to the south 
west of the National 
Grid Gas compound, 
Eye 
2b_ER 
Temporary use 
(including the passing 
and re-passing of 
vehicles) to facilitate 
construction for the 
numbered work 6 
Part of numbered 
work 6 
Land forming part of 
the private access road 
known as Potash Lane 
situated to the south 
east of Oaksmere 
Business Park, Eye 
3a_ER 
Temporary use to 
facilitate construction 
for the numbered 
work 6 
Part of numbered 
work 6 
Part of agricultural 
land and access track 
situated to the south of 
Oaksmere Business 
Park and White House 
Farm buildings, Eye 
4a_ER 
Temporary use to 
facilitate construction 
for the numbered 
work 6 
Part of numbered 
work 6 
 
56 
(1) 
Location 
(2) 
Number of land shown 
on land plans 
(3) 
Purpose for which 
temporary possession 
may be taken 
(4) 
Relevant part of the 
authorised 
development 
Part of agricultural 
land, part of access 
track and hard 
standing to White 
House Farm buildings 
situated to the south 
and west of Oaksmere 
Business Park and 
White House Farm 
buildings, Eye 
4b_ER 
Temporary use to 
facilitate construction 
for the numbered 
work 6 
Part of numbered 
work 6 
Part of agricultural 
land situated to the 
east of the A140 and 
south west of White 
House Farm 
buildings, Eye 
4c_ER 
Temporary use to 
facilitate construction 
for the numbered 
work 6 
Part of numbered 
work 6 
Part of agricultural 
land forming part of 
Red House Farm 
situated to the west of 
Old Norwich Road 
and south and south 
west of Yaxley Lake, 
Eye 
9a_ER 
Temporary use to 
facilitate construction 
for the numbered 
work 6 
Part of numbered 
work 6 
Part of agricultural 
land forming part of 
Red House Farm 
situated to the west of 
Old Norwich Road 
and south and south 
west of Yaxley Lake, 
Eye 
9b_ER 
Temporary use to 
facilitate construction 
for the numbered 
work 6 
Part of numbered 
work 6 
Part of agricultural 
land forming part of 
Vine Farm situated to 
the north of Vine 
Farm and west of 
Leys Lane, Eye 
13a_ER 
Temporary use to 
facilitate construction 
for numbered works 5, 
6 and 7 
Part of numbered 
works 5, 6 and 7 
Part of agricultural 
land forming part of 
Red House Farm 
situated to the south of 
the access road from 
Old Norwich Road to 
Yaxley Lake, Eye 
3_JW 
Temporary use to 
facilitate construction 
for the numbered 
work 7 
Part of numbered 
work 7 
 
 
 
57 
 
SCHEDULE 9 
Article 37 
PROTECTIVE PROVISIONS 
PART 1 
FOR THE PROTECTION OF NATIONAL GRID 
Application 
1. For the protection of National Grid as referred to in this part of this Schedule the following 
provisions shall, unless otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and National Grid, 
have effect. 
Interpretation 
2. In this Part of this Schedule— 
“alternative apparatus” means appropriate alternative apparatus to the satisfaction of National 
Grid to enable National Grid to fulfil its statutory functions in a manner no less efficient than 
previously; 
“apparatus” means 
(a) electric lines or electrical plant as defined in the Electricity Act 1989(a), belonging to or 
maintained by National Grid; 
(b) mains, pipes or other apparatus belonging to or maintained by National Grid for the 
purposes of gas supply; 
“authorised development” has the same meaning as in article 2 (interpretation) of this Order 
and (unless otherwise specified) for the purposes of this Schedule shall include the use and 
maintenance of the authorised development; 
“commence” has the same meaning as under section 56 of the 1990 Act and means the earliest 
date on which any material operation comprised in the authorised development begins to be 
carried out and commencement shall be construed to have the same meaning; 
“functions” includes powers and duties; 
“in” in a context referring to apparatus or alternative apparatus in land includes a reference to 
apparatus or alternative apparatus under, over, across, along or upon such land; 
“plan” or “plans” include all designs, drawings, specifications, method statements, soil 
reports, programmes, calculations, risk assessments and other documents that are reasonably 
necessary properly and sufficiently to describe and assess the works to be executed; 
“National Grid” means either— 
(a) National Grid Electricity Transmission PLC (Company No. 2366977) whose registered 
office is at 1-3 Strand, London, WC2N 5EH; or 
(b) National Grid Gas PLC (Company No. 200600) whose registered office is at 1-3 Strand, 
London, WC2N 5EH, 
as the context shall require. 
3. Except for paragraphs 4 (apparatus in streets subject to temporary prohibition or restriction), 
8, 9 (retained apparatus: protection), 10 (expenses) and 11 (indemnity) this Schedule does not 
(a) 1989 (c.29) 
 
58 
                                                                                                                                            
apply to apparatus in respect of which the relations between the undertaker and National Grid are 
regulated by the provisions of Part 3 of the 1991 Act. 
Apparatus of National Grid in streets subject to temporary prohibition or restriction 
4. Notwithstanding the temporary prohibition or restriction under the powers of article 13 
(temporary prohibition or restriction of use of streets), National Grid shall be at liberty at all times 
to take all necessary access across any such street and/or to execute and do all such works and 
things in, upon or under any such street as may be reasonably necessary or desirable to enable it to 
maintain any apparatus which at the time of the prohibition or restriction was in that street. 
Acquisition of land 
5.—(1) Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on the land plans or 
contained in the book of reference to the Order the undertaker must not acquire any land interest 
or apparatus or override any easement or other interest of National Grid otherwise than by 
agreement (such agreement not to be unreasonably withheld). 
(2) The undertaker and National Grid agree that where there is any inconsistency or duplication 
between the provisions set out in this Schedule relating to the relocation and/or removal of 
apparatus (including but not limited to the payment of costs and expenses relating to such 
relocation and/or removal of apparatus) and the provisions of any existing easement, rights, 
agreements and licences granted, used, enjoyed or exercised by National Grid as of right or other 
use in relation to the apparatus then the provisions in this Schedule shall prevail. 
Removal of apparatus 
6.—(1) If, in the exercise of the agreement reached in accordance with paragraph (5) or in any 
other authorised manner, the undertaker acquires any interest in any land in which any apparatus is 
placed, that apparatus must not be removed under this part of this Schedule and any right of 
National Grid to maintain that apparatus in that land shall not be extinguished until alternative 
apparatus has been constructed, and is in operation to the reasonable satisfaction of National Grid 
in accordance with sub-paragraphs (2) to (5) inclusive. 
(2) If, for the purpose of executing any works comprised in the authorised development in, on, 
under or over any land purchased, held, appropriated or used under this Order, the undertaker 
requires the removal of any apparatus placed in that land, it must give to National Grid 56 days’ 
advance written notice of that requirement, together with a plan of the work proposed, and of the 
proposed position of the alternative apparatus to be provided or constructed and in that case (or if 
in consequence of the exercise of any of the powers conferred by this Order National Grid 
reasonably needs to remove any of its apparatus) the undertaker shall, subject to sub-paragraph 
(3), afford to National Grid to their satisfaction (taking into account paragraph 7 sub-paragraph (1) 
below) the necessary facilities and rights for— 
(a) the construction of alternative apparatus in other land of the undertaker; and 
(b) subsequently for the maintenance of that apparatus. 
(3) If alternative apparatus or any part of such apparatus is to be constructed elsewhere than in 
other land of the undertaker, or the undertaker is unable to afford such facilities and rights as are 
mentioned in sub-paragraph (2), in the land in which the alternative apparatus or part of such 
apparatus is to be constructed, National Grid must, on receipt of a written notice to that effect from 
the undertaker, take such steps as are reasonable in the circumstances in an endeavour to obtain 
the necessary facilities and rights in the land in which the alternative apparatus is to be constructed 
save that this obligation shall not extend to the requirement for National Grid to use its 
compulsory purchase powers to this end unless it elects to so do. 
(4) Any alternative apparatus to be constructed in land of the undertaker under this part of this 
Schedule shall be constructed in such manner and in such line or situation as may be agreed 
between National Grid and the undertaker. 
 
59 
(5) National Grid must, after the alternative apparatus to be provided or constructed has been 
agreed, and subject to the grant to National Grid of any such facilities and rights as are referred to 
in sub-paragraph (2) or (3), proceed without unnecessary delay to construct and bring into 
operation the alternative apparatus and subsequently to remove any apparatus required by the 
undertaker to be removed under the provisions of this part of this Schedule. 
Facilities and rights for alternative apparatus 
7.—(1) Where, in accordance with the provisions of this part of this Schedule, the undertaker 
affords to National Grid facilities and rights for the construction and maintenance in land of the 
undertaker of alternative apparatus in substitution for apparatus to be removed, those facilities and 
rights shall be granted upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed between the undertaker 
and National Grid and must be no less favourable on the whole to National Grid than the facilities 
and rights enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be removed unless agreed by National Grid. 
(2) If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the undertaker and agreed with National Grid 
under paragraph 7 sub-paragraph (1) above in respect of any alternative apparatus, and the terms 
and conditions subject to which those facilities and rights are to be granted, are less favourable on 
the whole to National Grid than the facilities and rights enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to 
be removed and the terms and conditions to which those facilities and rights are subject in the 
matter shall be referred to arbitration and, the arbitrator shall make such provision for the payment 
of compensation by the undertaker to National Grid as appears to the arbitrator to be reasonable 
having regard to all the circumstances of the particular case. In respect of the appointment of an 
arbitrator under this sub-paragraph (2), article 41 (arbitration) of the Order shall apply. 
Retained apparatus: protection of National Grid as Gas Undertaker 
8.—(1) Not less than 56 days before the commencement of any authorised development 
authorised by this Order that involves activities or works specified in National Grid’s 
“Specification for safe working in the vicinity of National Grid, High pressure Gas pipelines and 
associated installation requirements for third parties T/SP/SSW22” that are within the proximities 
described therein to any apparatus the removal of which has not been required by the undertaker 
under paragraph 6 sub paragraph (2) or otherwise, the undertaker must submit to National Grid a 
plan. 
(2) In relation to works which will be situated on, over, under or within 15 metres measured in 
any direction of any apparatus to which sub-paragraph (1) applies, or (wherever situated) impose 
any load directly upon any such apparatus or involve embankment works within 15 metres of any 
such apparatus, the plan to be submitted to National Grid under sub-paragraph (1) shall show— 
(a) the exact position of the works; 
(b) the level at which these are proposed to be constructed or renewed; 
(c) the manner of their construction or renewal including details of excavation, positioning of 
plant etc.; 
(d) the position of all apparatus; 
(e) by way of detailed drawings, every alteration proposed to be made to or close to any such 
apparatus; 
(f) intended maintenance regimes; and 
(g) details of any ground monitoring scheme (if required in accordance with National Grid’s 
“Specification for safe working in the vicinity of National Grid, High pressure Gas 
pipelines and associated installation requirements for third parties T/SP/SSW22”). 
(3) The undertaker must not commence any works to which sub-paragraph (2) applies until 
National Grid has given written approval of the plan so submitted. 
(4) Any approval of National Grid required under sub-paragraph (3)— 
(a) may be given subject to reasonable conditions for any purpose mentioned in sub-
paragraph (5) or (7); 
 
60 
(b) must not be unreasonably withheld. 
(5) In relation to a work to which sub-paragraphs (1) and (2) applies, National Grid may require 
such modifications to be made to the plans as may be reasonably necessary for the purpose of 
securing its system against interference or risk of damage or for the purpose of providing or 
securing proper and convenient means of access to any apparatus. 
(6) Works executed under sub-paragraphs (1) or (2) shall be executed only in accordance with 
the plan, submitted under sub-paragraph (1) or as relevant sub paragraph (2), as amended from 
time to time by agreement between the undertaker and National Grid and in accordance with such 
reasonable requirements as may be made in accordance with sub-paragraphs (4), (5), (7) and/or (8) 
by National Grid for the alteration or otherwise for the protection of the apparatus, or for securing 
access to it, and National Grid shall be entitled to watch and inspect the execution of those works. 
(7) Where National Grid requires protective works to be carried out either themselves or by the 
undertaker (whether of a temporary or permanent nature) such protective works shall be carried 
out to National Grid’s satisfaction prior to the commencement of any authorised development (or 
any relevant part thereof) and National Grid must give 56 days’ notice of such works from the date 
of submission of a plan in line with sub-paragraph (1) or (2) (except in an emergency). 
(8) If National Grid in accordance with sub-paragraph (5) or (7) and in consequence of the 
works proposed by the undertaker, reasonably requires the removal of any apparatus and gives 
written notice to the undertaker of that requirement, paragraphs 1 to 3 and 6 to 7 shall apply as if 
the removal of the apparatus had been required by the undertaker under paragraph 6 sub-paragraph 
(2). 
(9) Nothing in this paragraph shall preclude the undertaker from submitting at any time or from 
time to time, but in no case less than 56 days before commencing the execution of any works, a 
new plan, instead of the plan previously submitted, and having done so the provisions of this 
paragraph shall apply to and in respect of the new plan. 
(10) The undertaker shall not be required to comply with sub-paragraph (1) where it needs to 
carry out emergency works as defined in the 1991 Act but in that case it must give to National 
Grid notice as soon as is reasonably practicable and a plan of those works and shall— 
(a) comply with sub-paragraph (5), (6) and (7) insofar as is reasonably practicable in the 
circumstances; and 
(b) comply with sub-paragraph (11) at all times. 
(11) At all times when carrying out any works authorised under the Order comply with National 
Grid’s policies for safe working in proximity to gas apparatus “Specification for safe working in 
the vicinity of National Grid, High pressure Gas pipelines and associated installation requirements 
for third parties T/SP/SSW22” and the Health and Safety Executive’s “HS(~G)47 Avoiding 
Danger from underground services”. 
Retained apparatus: protection of National Grid as Electricity Undertaker 
9.—(1) Not less than 56 days before the commencement of any authorised development under 
this Order that is near to, or will or may affect, any apparatus the removal of which has not been 
required by the undertaker under paragraph 6 sub-paragraph (2) or otherwise and to which sub-
paragraph (2)(i) or (2)(ii) applies, the undertaker must submit to National Grid a plan and seek 
from National Grid details of the underground extent of their electricity tower foundations. 
(2) In relation to works which will or may be situated on, over, under or within (i) 15 metres 
measured in any direction of any apparatus, or (ii) involve embankment works within 15 metres of 
any apparatus, the plan to be submitted under sub-paragraph (1) shall show— 
(a) the exact position of the works; 
(b) the level at which these are proposed to be constructed or renewed; 
(c) the manner of their construction or renewal including details of excavation, positioning of 
plant; 
(d) the position of all apparatus; 
 
61 
(e) by way of detailed drawings, every alteration proposed to be made to or close to any such 
apparatus. 
(3) In relation to any works which will or may be situated on, over, under or within 10 metres of 
any part of the foundations of an electricity tower or between any two or more electricity towers, 
the plan to be submitted under sub-paragraph (1) shall be detailed including a method statement 
and describing in addition to the matters set out in sub-paragraph (2)— 
(a) details of any cable trench design including route, dimensions, clearance to pylon 
foundations; 
(b) demonstration that pylon foundations will not be affected prior to, during and post 
construction; 
(c) details of load bearing capacities of trenches; 
(d) details of cable installation methodology including access arrangements, jointing bays 
and backfill methodology; 
(e) a written management plan for high voltage hazard during construction and on-going 
maintenance of the cable route; 
(f) written details of the operations and maintenance regime for the cable, including 
frequency and method of access; 
(g) assessment of earth rise potential if reasonably required by National Grid’s engineers; 
(h) evidence that trench bearing capacity is to be designed to 26 tonnes to take the weight of 
overhead line construction traffic. 
(4) The undertaker must not commence any works to which sub-paragraphs (1), (2) or (3) apply 
until National Grid has given written approval of the plan so submitted, 
(5) Any approval of National Grid required under sub-paragraph (1), (2) or (3)— 
(a) may be given subject to reasonable conditions for any purpose mentioned in sub-
paragraph (5) or (8); 
(b) must not be unreasonably withheld. 
(6) In relation to a work to which sub-paragraphs (1), (2) or (3) apply, National Grid may 
require such modifications to be made to the plans as may be reasonably necessary for the purpose 
of securing its system against interference or risk of damage or for the purpose of providing or 
securing proper and convenient means of access to any apparatus. 
(7) Works executed under sub-paragraphs (1), (2) or (3) must be executed only in accordance 
with the plan, submitted under sub-paragraph (1) or as relevant sub-paragraphs (2), (3) or (5), as 
amended from time to time by agreement between the undertaker and National Grid and in 
accordance with such reasonable requirements as may be made in accordance with sub-paragraphs 
(5), (6), (8) and/or (9) by National Grid for the alteration or otherwise for the protection of the 
apparatus, or for securing access to it, and National Grid shall be entitled to watch and inspect the 
execution of those works. 
(8) Where National Grid require any protective works to be carried out either themselves or by 
the undertaker (whether of a temporary or permanent nature) such protective works must be 
carried out to the undertakers’ satisfaction prior to the commencement of any authorised 
development (or any relevant part thereof) and National Grid must give 56 days’ notice of such 
works from the date of submission of a plan in line with sub-paragraphs (1), (2), (3) or (5) (except 
in an emergency) 
(9) If National Grid in accordance with sub-paragraph (6) or (8) and in consequence of the 
works proposed by the undertaker, reasonably requires the removal of any apparatus and gives 
written notice to the undertaker of that requirement, paragraphs 1 to 3 and 6 to 7 shall apply as if 
the removal of the apparatus had been required by the undertaker under paragraph 6 sub-paragraph 
(2). 
(10) Nothing in this paragraph shall preclude the undertaker from submitting at any time or from 
time to time, but in no case less than 56 days before commencing the execution of any works, a 
 
62 
new plan, instead of the plan previously submitted, and having done so the provisions of this 
paragraph shall apply to and in respect of the new plan. 
(11) The undertaker shall not be required to comply with sub-paragraph (1) where it needs to 
carry out emergency works as defined in the 1991 Act but in that case it must give to National 
Grid notice as soon as is reasonably practicable and a plan of those works and shall 
(a) comply with sub-paragraphs (6), (7) and (8) insofar as is reasonably practicable in the 
circumstances; and 
(b) comply with sub-paragraph (12) at all times. 
(12) At all times when carrying out any works authorised under the Order comply with National 
Grid’s policies for development near over headlines ENA TA 43-8 and the Health and Safety 
Executive’s guidance note 6 “Avoidance of Danger from Overhead Lines”. 
Expenses 
10.—(1) Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the undertaker shall pay to 
National Grid on demand all charges, costs and expenses reasonably anticipated or incurred by 
that undertaker in, or in connection with, the inspection, removal, relaying or replacing, alteration 
or protection of any apparatus or the construction of any new apparatus which may be required in 
consequence of the execution of any such works as are referred to in this Schedule including 
without limitation— 
(a) any costs reasonably incurred or compensation properly paid in connection with the 
acquisition of rights or the exercise of statutory powers for such apparatus including 
without limitation in the event that National Grid elects to use compulsory purchase 
powers to acquire any necessary rights under paragraph 6 sub-paragraph (3) all costs 
incurred as a result of such action; 
(b) in connection with the cost of the carrying out of any diversion work or the provision of 
any alternative apparatus; 
(c) the cutting off of any apparatus from any other apparatus or the making safe of redundant 
apparatus; 
(d) the approval of plans; 
(e) the carrying out of protective works, plus a capitalised sum to cover the cost of 
maintaining and renewing permanent protective works; 
(f) the survey of any land, apparatus or works, the inspection and monitoring of works or the 
installation or removal of any temporary works reasonably necessary in consequence of 
the execution of any such works referred to in this Schedule. 
(2) There must be deducted from any sum payable under sub-paragraph (1) the value of any 
apparatus removed under the provisions of this Schedule and which is not re-used as part of the 
alternative apparatus, that value being calculated after removal. 
(3) If in accordance with the provisions of this part of this Schedule— 
(a) apparatus of better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is placed in 
substitution for existing apparatus of worse type, of smaller capacity or of smaller 
dimensions; or 
(b) apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing apparatus) is 
placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing apparatus was situated, 
and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions or the placing of 
apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed by the undertaker or in default of 
agreement settled by arbitration in accordance with article 41 (arbitration) of the Order to be 
necessary, then, if such placing involves cost in the construction of works under this part of 
this Schedule exceeding that which would have been involved if the apparatus placed had 
been of the existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at the existing depth, as the case may be, 
the amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to National Grid by virtue 
of sub-paragraph (1) shall be reduced by the amount of that excess save where it is not 
 
63 
possible in the circumstances to obtain the existing type of operations, capacity, dimensions or 
place at the existing depth in which case full costs shall be borne by the undertaker. 
(4) For the purposes of sub-paragraph (3)— 
(a) an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing apparatus shall 
not be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions than those of the existing 
apparatus; and 
(b) where the provision of a joint in a pipe or cable is agreed, or is determined to be 
necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a manhole shall be 
treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so determined. 
(5) An amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to National Grid in 
respect of works by virtue of sub-paragraph (1) shall, if the works include the placing of apparatus 
provided in substitution for apparatus placed more than 7 years and 6 months earlier so as to 
confer on National Grid any financial benefit by deferment of the time for renewal of the 
apparatus in the ordinary course, be reduced by the amount which represents that benefit. 
11.—(1) Subject to sub-paragraphs (2) and (3), if by reason or in consequence of the 
construction of any works authorised by this Schedule or in consequence of the construction, use, 
maintenance or failure of any of the authorised development by or on behalf of the undertaker or 
in consequence of any act or default of the undertaker (or any person employed or authorised by 
him) in the course of carrying out such works (including without limitation works carried out by 
the undertaker under this Schedule or any subsidence resulting from any of these works), any 
material damage is caused to any apparatus or alternative apparatus (other than apparatus the 
repair of which is not reasonably necessary in view of its intended removal for the purposes of 
those works) or property of National Grid, or there is any interruption in any service provided, or 
in the supply of any goods, by National Grid, or National Grid becomes liable to pay any amount 
to any third party, the undertaker shall— 
(a) bear and pay on demand the cost reasonably incurred by National Grid in making good 
such damage or restoring the supply; and 
(b) indemnify National Grid for any other expenses, loss, demands, proceedings, damages, 
claims, penalty or costs incurred by or recovered from National Grid, by reason or in 
consequence of any such damage or interruption or National Grid becoming liable to any 
third party as aforesaid. 
(2) The fact that any act or thing may have been done by National Grid on behalf of the 
undertaker or in accordance with a plan approved by National Grid or in accordance with any 
requirement of National Grid as a consequence of the authorised development or under its 
supervision shall not (unless sub-paragraph (3) applies) excuse the undertaker from liability under 
the provisions of this sub-paragraph (1) where the undertaker fails to carry out and execute the 
works properly with due care and attention and in a skilful and workman like manner or in a 
manner that does not materially accord with the approved plan or as otherwise agreed between the 
undertaker and National Grid. 
(3) Nothing in sub-paragraph (1) shall impose any liability on the undertaker in respect of— 
(a) any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to the neglect or default of 
National Grid, its officers, servants, contractors or agents; and 
(b) any authorised development and/or any other works authorised by this Schedule carried 
out by National Grid as an assignee, transferee or lessee of the undertaker with the benefit 
of the Order pursuant to section 156 of the 2008 Act or under Article 6 of the Order 
subject to the proviso that once such works become apparatus (“new apparatus”), any 
works yet to be executed and not falling within this sub-section 3(b) shall be subject to 
the full terms of this Schedule including this paragraph 11 in respect of such new 
apparatus. 
(4) National Grid must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such claim or demand and 
no settlement or compromise shall be made without first consulting the undertaker and considering 
their representations. 
 
64 
(5) National Grid must use its reasonable endeavours to mitigate in whole or in part and to 
minimise any costs, expenses, loss, demands, and penalties to which the indemnity under this 
paragraph 11 applies. If requested to do so by the undertaker, National Grid shall provide an 
explanation of how the claim has been minimised. The undertaker shall only be liable under this 
paragraph 11 for claims reasonably incurred by National Grid. 
Enactments and agreements 
12. Nothing in this part of this Schedule shall affect the provisions of any enactment or 
agreement regulating the relations between the undertaker and National Grid in respect of any 
apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to the undertaker on the date on which this Order is 
made. 
Co-operation 
13. National Grid and the undertaker must each use their best endeavours to co-ordinate with the 
other party on the timing and method of execution of any works carried out under the Order or this 
Schedule (including, for the avoidance of doubt, pursuant to paragraph 6 sub-paragraph (2) and 
paragraphs 8 or 12) in the interests of safety and the efficient and economic execution of the 
authorised development and taking into account the need to ensure the safe and efficient operation 
of the other party’s operations. 
Access 
14. If in consequence of the agreement reached in accordance with paragraph 5 sub-paragraph 
(1) or the powers granted under this Order the access to any apparatus is materially obstructed, the 
undertaker shall provide such alternative means of access to such apparatus as will enable 
National Grid to maintain or use the apparatus no less effectively than was possible before such 
obstruction. 
Arbitration 
15. Save for differences or disputes arising under paragraph 6(2), 6(4), 7(1), 8 and 9 any 
difference or dispute arising between the undertaker and National Grid under this Schedule shall, 
unless otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and National Grid, be determined by 
arbitration in accordance with article 41 (arbitration) of the Order. 
 
 
 
65 
PART 2 
FOR THE PROTECTION OF ELECTRICITY, GAS, WATER AND SEWERAGE 
UNDERTAKERS 
16. For the protection of the utility undertakers referred to in this part of this Schedule (save for 
National Grid which is protected by Part 1 of this Schedule and Eastern Power Networks which is 
protected by Part 4 of this Schedule), the following provisions have effect, unless otherwise 
agreed in writing between the undertaker and the utility undertakers concerned. 
17. In this part of this Schedule— 
“alternative apparatus” means alternative apparatus adequate to enable the utility undertaker in 
question to fulfil its statutory functions in a manner not less efficient than previously; 
“apparatus” means— 
(a) in the case of an electricity undertaker, electric lines or electrical plant (as defined in the 
Electricity Act 1989(a)), belonging to or maintained by that utility undertaker; 
(b) in the case of a gas undertaker, any mains, pipes or other apparatus belonging to or 
maintained by a gas transporter for the purposes of gas supply; 
(c) in the case of a water undertaker— 
(i) mains, pipes or other apparatus belonging to or maintained by that utility undertaker 
for the purposes of water supply; and 
(ii) any water mains or service pipes (or part of a water main or service pipe) that is the 
subject of an agreement to adopt made under section 51A of the Water Industry Act 
1991(b); 
(d) in the case of a sewerage undertaker— 
(i) any drain or works vested in the utility undertaker under the Water Industry Act 
1991; and 
(ii) any sewer which is so vested or is the subject of a notice of intention to adopt given 
under section 102(4) of that Act or an agreement to adopt made under section 104 of 
that Act, 
and includes a sludge main, disposal main (within the meaning of section 219 of that Act) or 
sewer outfall and any manholes, ventilating shafts, pumps or other accessories forming part of 
any such sewer, drain or works, and includes any structure in which apparatus is or is to be 
lodged or which gives or will give access to apparatus; 
“functions” includes powers and duties; 
“in”, in a context referring to apparatus or alternative apparatus in land, includes a reference to 
apparatus or alternative apparatus under, over or upon land; and 
“utility undertaker” means— 
(a) any licence holder within the meaning of Part 1 of the Electricity Act 1989; 
(b) a gas transporter within the meaning of Part 1 of the Gas Act 1986(c); 
(c) a water undertaker within the meaning of the Water Industry Act 1991; and 
(d) a sewerage undertaker within the meaning of Part 1 of the Water Industry Act 1991, 
for the area of the authorised development, and in relation to any apparatus, means the utility 
undertaker to whom it belongs or by whom it is maintained. 
(a) 1989 c.29. 
(b) 1991 c.56.  Section 51A to the 1991 Act was inserted by section 92(1) of the Water Act 2003(c.37). 
(c) 1986 c.44. A new section 7 was substituted by section 5 of the Gas Act 1995 (c.45), and was further amended by section 76 
of the Utilities Act 2000 (c.27). 
 
66 
                                                                                                                                            
18. This part of this Schedule does not apply to apparatus in respect of which the relations 
between the undertaker and the utility undertaker are regulated by the provisions of Part 3 of the 
1991 Act. 
19. Regardless of the temporary prohibition or restriction of use of streets under the powers 
conferred by article 13 (temporary prohibition or restriction of use of streets), a utility undertaker 
is at liberty at all times to take all necessary access across any such street and to execute and do all 
such works and things in, upon or under any such street as may be reasonably necessary or 
desirable to enable it to maintain any apparatus which at the time of the prohibition or restriction 
was in that street. 
20. Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on the land plans, the 
undertaker must not acquire any apparatus otherwise than by agreement. 
21.—(1) If, in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order, the undertaker acquires any 
interest in any land in which any apparatus is placed or over which access to any apparatus is 
enjoyed or requires that the utility undertaker’s apparatus is relocated or diverted, that apparatus 
must not be removed under this part of this Schedule, and any right of a utility undertaker to 
maintain that apparatus in that land and to gain access to it must not be extinguished, until 
alternative apparatus has been constructed and is in operation, and access to it has been provided, 
to the reasonable satisfaction of the utility undertaker in question in accordance with sub-
paragraphs (2) to (7). 
(2) If, for the purpose of executing any works in, on or under any land purchased, held, 
appropriated or used under this Order, the undertaker requires the removal of any apparatus placed 
in that land, the undertaker must give to the utility undertaker in question written notice of that 
requirement, together with a plan and section of the work proposed, and of the proposed position 
of the alternative apparatus to be provided or constructed and in that case (or if in consequence of 
the exercise of any of the powers conferred by this Order a utility undertaker reasonably needs to 
remove any of its apparatus) the undertaker must, subject to sub-paragraph (3), afford to the utility 
undertaker the necessary facilities and rights for the construction of alternative apparatus in other 
land of the undertaker and subsequently for the maintenance of that apparatus. 
(3) If alternative apparatus or any part of such apparatus is to be constructed elsewhere than in 
other land of the undertaker, or the undertaker is unable to afford such facilities and rights as are 
mentioned in sub-paragraph (2), in the land in which the alternative apparatus or part of such 
apparatus is to be constructed, the utility undertaker in question must, on receipt of a written 
notice to that effect from the undertaker, as soon as reasonably possible use reasonable endeavours 
to obtain the necessary facilities and rights in the land in which the alternative apparatus is to be 
constructed. 
(4) Any alternative apparatus to be constructed in land of the undertaker under this part of this 
Schedule must be constructed in such manner and in such line or situation as may be agreed 
between the utility undertaker in question and the undertaker or in default of agreement settled by 
arbitration in accordance with article 41 (arbitration). 
(5) The utility undertaker in question must, after the alternative apparatus to be provided or 
constructed has been agreed or settled by arbitration in accordance with article 41 (arbitration), 
and after the grant to the utility undertaker of any such facilities and rights as are referred to in 
sub-paragraph (2) or (3), proceed without unnecessary delay to construct and bring into operation 
the alternative apparatus and subsequently to remove any apparatus required by the undertaker to 
be removed under the provisions of this part of this Schedule. 
(6) Regardless of anything in sub-paragraph (5), if the undertaker gives notice in writing to the 
utility undertaker in question that it desires itself to execute any work, or part of any work, in 
connection with the construction or removal of apparatus in any land controlled by the undertaker, 
that work, instead of being executed by the utility undertaker, must be executed by the undertaker 
without unnecessary delay under the superintendence, if given, and to the reasonable satisfaction 
of the utility undertaker. 
(7) Nothing in sub-paragraph (6) authorises the undertaker to execute the placing, installation, 
bedding, packing, removal, connection or disconnection of any apparatus, or execute any filling 
 
67 
around the apparatus (where the apparatus is laid in a trench) within 300 millimetres of the 
apparatus. 
22.—(1) Where, in accordance with the provisions of this part of this Schedule, the undertaker 
affords to a utility undertaker facilities and rights for the construction and maintenance in land of 
the undertaker of alternative apparatus in substitution for apparatus to be removed, those facilities 
and rights must be granted upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed between the 
undertaker and the utility undertaker in question or in default of agreement settled by arbitration in 
accordance with article 41 (arbitration). 
(2) If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the undertaker in respect of any alternative 
apparatus, and the terms and conditions subject to which those facilities and rights are to be 
granted, are in the opinion of the arbitrator less favourable on the whole to the utility undertaker in 
question than the facilities and rights enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be removed and 
the terms and conditions to which those facilities and rights are subject, the arbitrator must make 
such provision for the payment of compensation by the undertaker to that utility undertaker as 
appears to the arbitrator to be reasonable having regard to all the circumstances of the particular 
case. 
23.—(1) Not less than 28 days before starting the execution of any works in, on or under any 
land purchased, held, appropriated or used under this Order that are near to, or will or may affect, 
any apparatus the removal of which has not been required by the undertaker under paragraph 
21(2), the undertaker must submit to the utility undertaker in question a plan, section and 
description of the works to be executed. 
(2) Those works must be executed only in accordance with the plan, section and description 
submitted under sub-paragraph (1) and in accordance with such reasonable requirements as may 
be made in accordance with sub-paragraph (3) by the utility undertaker for the alteration or 
otherwise for the protection of the apparatus, or for securing access to it, and the utility undertaker 
is entitled to watch and inspect the execution of those works. 
(3) Any requirements made by a utility undertaker under sub-paragraph (2) must be made within 
a period of 21 days beginning with the date on which a plan, section and description under sub-
paragraph (1) are submitted to it. 
(4) If a utility undertaker in accordance with sub-paragraph (3) and in consequence of the works 
proposed by the undertaker, reasonably requires the removal of any apparatus and gives written 
notice to the undertaker of that requirement, paragraphs 16 to 22 apply as if the removal of the 
apparatus had been required by the undertaker under paragraph 21(2). 
(5) Nothing in this paragraph precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time or from time 
to time, but in no case less than 28 days before commencing the execution of any works, a new 
plan, section and description instead of the plan, section and description previously submitted, and 
having done so the provisions of this paragraph apply to and in respect of the new plan, section 
and description. 
(6) The undertaker is not required to comply with sub-paragraph (1) in a case of emergency but 
in that case it must give to the utility undertaker in question notice as soon as is reasonably 
practicable and a plan, section and description of those works as soon as reasonably practicable 
subsequently and must comply with sub-paragraph (2) in so far as is reasonably practicable in the 
circumstances. 
24.—(1) Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the undertaker must repay to a 
utility undertaker the reasonable expenses incurred by that utility undertaker in, or in connection 
with, the inspection, removal, alteration or protection of any apparatus or the construction of any 
new apparatus which may be required in consequence of the execution of any such works as are 
referred to in paragraph 21(2). 
(2) There is to be deducted from any sum payable under sub-paragraph (1) the value of any 
apparatus removed under the provisions of this part of this Schedule, that value being calculated 
after removal. 
(3) If in accordance with the provisions of this part of this Schedule— 
 
68 
(a) apparatus of better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is placed in 
substitution for existing apparatus of worse type, of smaller capacity or of smaller 
dimensions; or 
(b) apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing apparatus) is 
placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing apparatus was, 
and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions or the placing of 
apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed by the undertaker or, in default of 
agreement, is not determined by arbitration in accordance with article 41 (arbitration) to be 
necessary, then, if such placing involves cost in the construction of works under this part of this 
Schedule exceeding that which would have been involved if the apparatus placed had been of the 
existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at the existing depth, as the case may be, the amount 
which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to the utility undertaker in question by 
virtue of sub-paragraph (1) is to be reduced by the amount of that excess. 
(4) For the purposes of sub-paragraph (3)— 
(a) an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing apparatus is not to 
be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions than those of the existing 
apparatus where such extension is required in consequence of the execution of any such 
works as are referred to in paragraph 21(2); and 
(b) where the provision of a joint in a cable is agreed, or is determined to be necessary, the 
consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a manhole is to be treated as if it also 
had been agreed or had been so determined. 
(5) An amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to a utility undertaker in 
respect of works by virtue of sub-paragraph (1), if the works include the placing of apparatus 
provided in substitution for apparatus placed more than 7 years and 6 months earlier so as to 
confer on the utility undertaker any financial benefit by deferment of the time for renewal of the 
apparatus in the ordinary course, is to be reduced by the amount which represents that benefit. 
25.—(1) Subject to sub-paragraphs (2) and (3), if by reason or in consequence of the 
construction of any of the works referred to in paragraph 21(2), any damage is caused to any 
apparatus (other than apparatus the repair of which is not reasonably necessary in view of its 
intended removal for the purposes of those works) or property of a utility undertaker, or there is 
any interruption in any service provided, or in the supply of any goods, by any utility undertaker, 
the undertaker must— 
(a) bear and pay the cost reasonably incurred by that utility undertaker in making good such 
damage or restoring the supply; and 
(b) make reasonable compensation to that utility undertaker for any other expenses, loss, 
damages, penalty or costs incurred by the utility undertaker, 
by reason or in consequence of any such damage or interruption. 
(2) Nothing in sub-paragraph (1) imposes any liability on the undertaker with respect to any 
damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to the act, neglect or default of a utility 
undertaker, its officers, servants, contractors or agents. 
(3) A utility undertaker must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such claim or demand 
and no settlement or compromise is to be made without the consent of the undertaker which, if it 
withholds such consent, has the sole conduct of any settlement or compromise or of any 
proceedings necessary to resist the claim or demand. 
26. Nothing in this part of this Schedule affects the provisions of any enactment or agreement 
regulating the relations between the undertaker and a utility undertaking in respect of any 
apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to the undertaker on the date on which this Order is 
made. 
 
 
 
69 
PART 3 
FOR THE PROTECTION OF OPERATORS OF ELECTRONIC 
COMMUNICATIONS CODE NETWORKS 
27.—(1) For the protection of any operator, the following provisions have effect, unless 
otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and the operator. 
(2) In this part of this Schedule— 
“the 2003 Act” means the Communications Act 2003(a); 
“conduit system” has the same meaning as in the electronic communications code and 
references to providing a conduit system are to be construed in accordance with paragraph 
1(3A)(b) of that code; 
“electronic communications apparatus” has the same meaning as in the electronic 
communications code; 
“the electronic communications code” has the same meaning as in Chapter 1 of Part 2 of the 
2003 Act(c); 
“electronic communications code network” means— 
(a) so much of an electronic communications network or conduit system provided by an 
electronic communications code operator as is not excluded from the application of the 
electronic communications code by a direction under section 106 of the 2003 Act; and 
(b) an electronic communications network which the Secretary of State is providing or 
proposing to provide; 
“electronic communications code operator” means a person in whose case the electronic 
communications code is applied by a direction under section 106 of the 2003 Act; and 
“operator” means the operator of an electronic communications code network. 
28. The exercise of the powers of article 30 (statutory undertakers) is subject to paragraph 23 of 
Schedule 2 to the Telecommunications Act 1984(d) (undertaker’s works). 
29.—(1) Subject to sub-paragraphs (2) to (4), if as the result of the authorised development or its 
construction, or of any subsidence resulting from any of those works— 
(a) any damage is caused to any electronic communications apparatus belonging to an 
operator (other than apparatus the repair of which is not reasonably necessary in view of 
its intended removal for the purposes of those works), or other property of an operator; or 
(b) there is any interruption in the supply of the service provided by an operator, 
the undertaker must bear and pay the cost reasonably incurred by the operator in making good 
such damage or restoring the supply and make reasonable compensation to that operator for any 
other expenses, loss, damages, penalty or costs incurred by it, by reason, or in consequence of, any 
such damage or interruption. 
(2) Nothing in sub-paragraph (1) imposes any liability on the undertaker with respect to any 
damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to the act, neglect or default of an 
operator, its officers, servants, contractors or agents. 
(3) The operator must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such claim or demand and no 
settlement or compromise of the claim or demand is to be made without the consent of the 
(a) 2003 c.21. 
(b) Paragraph 1(3A) was inserted by section 106(2) of, and paragraphs 1 and 4 of Schedule 3 to, the Communications Act 2003. 
(c) See section 106. 
(d) 1984 c.12. Paragraph 23 was amended by section 190 of, and paragraph 68 of Schedule 25 and part 1 of Schedule 27 to, the 
Water Act 1989 (c.15), section 112(4) of, and Schedule 18 to, the Electricity Act 1989 (c.29) and section 106(2) of, and 
paragraphs 1, 5(d) and 8 of Schedule 3 to, the Communications Act 2003. 
 
70 
                                                                                                                                            
undertaker which, if it withholds such consent, has the sole conduct of any settlement or 
compromise or of any proceedings necessary to resist the claim or demand. 
(4) Any difference arising between the undertaker and the operator under this part of this 
Schedule must be referred to and settled by arbitration under article 41 (arbitration). 
30. This part of this Schedule does not apply to— 
(a) any apparatus in respect of which the relations between the undertaker and an operator 
are regulated by the provisions of Part 3 of the 1991 Act; or 
(b) any damage, or any interruption, caused by electro-magnetic interference arising from the 
construction or use of the authorised development. 
31. Nothing in this part of this Schedule affects the provisions of any enactment or agreement 
regulating the relations between the undertaker and an operator in respect of any apparatus laid or 
erected in land belonging to the undertaker on the date on which this Order is made. 
 
71 
PART 4 
FOR THE PROTECTION OF EASTERN POWER NETWORKS  
32. For the protection of Eastern Power Networks as referred to in this part of this Schedule the 
following provisions have effect, unless otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and 
Eastern Power Networks. 
33. In this part of this Schedule— 
“alternative apparatus” means alternative apparatus adequate to enable Eastern Power 
Networks to fulfil its statutory functions in a manner not less efficient than previously; 
“apparatus” means electric lines or electrical plant (as defined in the Electricity Act 1989(a)), 
belonging to or maintained by Eastern Power Networks; 
“functions” includes powers and duties; 
“in”, in a context referring to apparatus or alternative apparatus in land, includes a reference to 
apparatus or alternative apparatus under, over or upon land; and 
“Eastern Power Networks” means Eastern Power Networks plc (Company No. 2366906) 
whose registered office is at Newington House, 237 Southwark Bridge Road, London SE1 
6NP; 
34. This part of this Schedule does not apply to apparatus in respect of which the relations 
between the undertaker and Eastern Power Networks are regulated by the provisions of Part 3 of 
the 1991 Act. 
35. Regardless of the temporary prohibition or restriction of use of streets under the powers 
conferred by article 13 (temporary prohibition or restriction of use of streets), Eastern Power 
Networks is at liberty at all times to take all necessary access across any such street and to execute 
and do all such works and things in, upon or under any such street as may be reasonably necessary 
or desirable to enable it to maintain any apparatus which at the time of the prohibition or 
restriction was in that street. 
36. Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on the land plans, the 
undertaker must not acquire any apparatus otherwise than by agreement. 
37.—(1) If, in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order, the undertaker acquires any 
interest in any land in which any apparatus is placed or over which access to any apparatus is 
enjoyed or requires that Eastern Power Networks’ apparatus is relocated or diverted, that 
apparatus must not be removed under this part of this Schedule, and any right of Eastern Power 
Networks to maintain that apparatus in that land and to gain access to it must not be extinguished, 
until alternative apparatus has been constructed and is in operation, and access to it has been 
provided, to the reasonable satisfaction of Eastern Power Networks in accordance with sub-
paragraphs (2) to (7). 
(2) If, for the purpose of executing any works in, on or under any land purchased, held, 
appropriated or used under this Order, the undertaker requires the removal of any apparatus placed 
in that land, the undertaker must give to Eastern Power Networks written notice of that 
requirement, together with a plan and section of the work proposed, and of the proposed position 
of the alternative apparatus to be provided or constructed and in that case (or if in consequence of 
the exercise of any of the powers conferred by this Order Eastern Power Networks reasonably 
needs to remove any of its apparatus) the undertaker must, subject to sub-paragraph (3), afford to 
Eastern Power Networks the necessary facilities and rights for the construction of alternative 
apparatus in other land of the undertaker and subsequently for the maintenance of that apparatus. 
(a) 1989 c.29. 
 
72 
                                                                                                                                            
(3) If alternative apparatus or any part of such apparatus is to be constructed elsewhere than in 
other land of the undertaker, or the undertaker is unable to afford such facilities and rights as are 
mentioned in sub-paragraph (2), in the land in which the alternative apparatus or part of such 
apparatus is to be constructed, Eastern Power Networks must, on receipt of a written notice to that 
effect from the undertaker, as soon as reasonably possible use reasonable endeavours to obtain the 
necessary facilities and rights in the land in which the alternative apparatus is to be constructed 
provided that this obligation shall not require Eastern Power Networks to exercise any power it 
may have to acquire any land or rights by compulsory purchase order. 
(4) Any alternative apparatus to be constructed in land of the undertaker under this part of this 
Schedule must be constructed in such manner and in such line or situation as may be agreed 
between Eastern Power Networks and the undertaker or in default of agreement settled by 
arbitration in accordance with article 41 (arbitration). 
(5) Eastern Power Networks must, after the alternative apparatus to be provided or constructed 
has been agreed or settled by arbitration in accordance with article 41 (arbitration), and after the 
grant to Eastern Power Networks of any such facilities and rights as are referred to in sub-
paragraph (2) or (3), proceed without unnecessary delay to construct and bring into operation the 
alternative apparatus and subsequently to remove any apparatus required by the undertaker to be 
removed under the provisions of this part of this Schedule. 
(6) Regardless of anything in sub-paragraph (5), if the undertaker gives notice in writing to 
Eastern Power Networks that it desires itself to execute any work, or part of any work, in 
connection with the construction or removal of apparatus in any land controlled by the undertaker, 
that work, instead of being executed by Eastern Power Networks, must be executed by the 
undertaker without unnecessary delay under the superintendence, if given, and to the reasonable 
satisfaction of Eastern Power Networks. 
(7) Nothing in sub-paragraph (6) authorises the undertaker to execute the placing, installation, 
bedding, packing, removal, connection or disconnection of any apparatus, or execute any filling 
around the apparatus (where the apparatus is laid in a trench) within 300 millimetres of the 
apparatus. 
38.—(1) Where, in accordance with the provisions of this part of this Schedule, the undertaker 
affords to Eastern Power Networks facilities and rights for the construction and maintenance in 
land of the undertaker of alternative apparatus in substitution for apparatus to be removed, those 
facilities and rights must be granted upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed between the 
undertaker and Eastern Power Networks or in default of agreement settled by arbitration in 
accordance with article 41 (arbitration). 
(2) If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the undertaker in respect of any alternative 
apparatus, and the terms and conditions subject to which those facilities and rights are to be 
granted, are in the opinion of the arbitrator less favourable on the whole to Eastern Power 
Networks than the facilities and rights enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be removed and 
the terms and conditions to which those facilities and rights are subject, the arbitrator must make 
such provision for the payment of compensation by the undertaker to Eastern Power Networks as 
appears to the arbitrator to be reasonable having regard to all the circumstances of the particular 
case. 
39.—(1) Not less than 28 days before starting the execution of any works in, on or under any 
land purchased, held, appropriated or used under this Order that are near to, or will or may affect, 
any apparatus the removal of which has not been required by the undertaker under paragraph 
37(2), the undertaker must submit to Eastern Power Networks a plan, section and description of 
the works to be executed. 
(2) Those works must be executed only in accordance with the plan, section and description 
submitted under sub-paragraph (1) and in accordance with such reasonable requirements as may 
be made in accordance with sub-paragraph (3) by Eastern Power Networks for the alteration or 
otherwise for the protection of the apparatus, or for securing access to it, and Eastern Power 
Networks is entitled to watch and inspect the execution of those works. 
 
73 
(3) Any requirements made by Eastern Power Networks under sub-paragraph (2) must be made 
within a period of 21 days beginning with the date on which a plan, section and description under 
sub-paragraph (1) are submitted to it. 
(4) If Eastern Power Networks in accordance with sub-paragraph (3) and in consequence of the 
works proposed by the undertaker, reasonably requires the removal of any apparatus and gives 
written notice to the undertaker of that requirement, paragraphs 32 to 38 apply as if the removal of 
the apparatus had been required by the undertaker under paragraph 37(2). 
(5) Nothing in this paragraph precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time or from time 
to time, but in no case less than 28 days before commencing the execution of any works, a new 
plan, section and description instead of the plan, section and description previously submitted, and 
having done so the provisions of this paragraph apply to and in respect of the new plan, section 
and description. 
(6) The undertaker is not required to comply with sub-paragraph (1) in a case of emergency but 
in that case it must give to Eastern Power Networks notice as soon as is reasonably practicable and 
a plan, section and description of those works as soon as reasonably practicable subsequently and 
must comply with sub-paragraph (2) in so far as is reasonably practicable in the circumstances. 
40.—(1) Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the undertaker must repay to 
Eastern Power Networks the reasonable expenses incurred by Eastern Power Networks in, or in 
connection with, the inspection, removal, alteration or protection of any apparatus or the 
construction of any new apparatus which may be required in consequence of the execution of any 
such works as are referred to in paragraph 37(2). 
(2) There is to be deducted from any sum payable under sub-paragraph (1) the value of any 
apparatus removed under the provisions of this part of this Schedule, that value being calculated 
after removal. 
(3) If in accordance with the provisions of this part of this Schedule— 
(a) apparatus of better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is placed in 
substitution for existing apparatus of worse type, of smaller capacity or of smaller 
dimensions; or 
(b) apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing apparatus) is 
placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing apparatus was, 
and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions or the placing of 
apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed by the undertaker or, in default of 
agreement, is not determined by arbitration in accordance with article 41 (arbitration) to be 
necessary, then, if such placing involves cost in the construction of works under this part of this 
Schedule exceeding that which would have been involved if the apparatus placed had been of the 
existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at the existing depth, as the case may be, the amount 
which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to Eastern Power Networks by virtue of 
sub-paragraph (1)is to be reduced by the amount of that excess. 
(4) For the purposes of sub-paragraph (3)— 
(a) an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing apparatus is not to 
be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions than those of the existing 
apparatus where such extension is required in consequence of the execution of any such 
works as are referred to in paragraph 37(2); and 
(b) where the provision of a joint in a cable is agreed, or is determined to be necessary, the 
consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a manhole is to be treated as if it also 
had been agreed or had been so determined. 
(5) An amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to Eastern Power 
Networks in respect of works by virtue of sub-paragraph (1), if the works include the placing of 
apparatus provided in substitution for apparatus placed more than 7 years and 6 months earlier so 
as to confer on Eastern Power Networks any financial benefit by deferment of the time for renewal 
of the apparatus in the ordinary course, is to be reduced by the amount which represents that 
benefit. 
 
74 
41.—(1) Subject to sub-paragraphs (2) and (3), if by reason or in consequence of the 
construction of any of the works referred to in paragraph 37(2), any damage is caused to any 
apparatus (other than apparatus the repair of which is not reasonably necessary in view of its 
intended removal for the purposes of those works) or property of Eastern Power Networks, or 
there is any interruption in any service provided, or in the supply of any goods, by Eastern Power 
Networks, the undertaker must— 
(a) bear and pay the cost reasonably incurred by Eastern Power Networks in making good 
such damage or restoring the supply; and 
(b) indemnify Eastern Power Networks for any other expenses, loss, demands, proceedings, 
damages, claims, penalty or costs incurred by or recovered from Eastern Power 
Networks, 
by reason or in consequence of any such damage or interruption. 
(2) Nothing in sub-paragraph (1) imposes any liability on the undertaker with respect to any 
damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to the act, neglect or default of Eastern 
Power Networks, its officers, servants, contractors or agents. 
(3) Eastern Power Networks must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such claim or 
demand and no settlement or compromise is to be made without the consent of the undertaker 
which, if it withholds such consent, has the sole conduct of any settlement or compromise or of 
any proceedings necessary to resist the claim or demand. 
42. Nothing in this part of this Schedule affects the provisions of any enactment or agreement 
regulating the relations between the undertaker and Eastern Power Networks in respect of any 
apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to the undertaker on the date on which this Order is 
made. 
 
75 
 
SCHEDULE 10 
Article 40 
PROCEDURE FOR DISCHARGE OF REQUIREMENTS 
Applications made under requirements 
1.—(1) Where an application has been made to the relevant planning authority for any consent, 
agreement or approval required by a requirement (including agreement or approval in respect of 
part of a requirement) included in this Order the relevant planning authority must give notice to 
the undertaker of their decision on the application within a period of eight (8) weeks beginning 
with: 
(a) the day immediately following that on which the application is received by the authority; 
(b) the day immediately following that on which further information has been supplied by the 
undertaker under paragraph 2; or 
(c) such longer period as may be agreed by the undertaker and the relevant planning 
authority in writing. 
(2) Subject to sub-paragraph (3), in the event that the relevant planning authority does not 
determine an application within the period set out in sub-paragraph (1), the relevant planning 
authority is to be taken to have granted all parts of the application (without any condition or 
qualification) at the end of that period. 
(3) Where: 
(a) an application has been made to the relevant planning authority for any consent, 
agreement or approval required by a requirement included in this Order; and 
(b) the relevant planning authority does not determine such application within the period set 
out in sub-paragraph (1); and 
(c) such application is accompanied by a report that considers it likely that the subject matter 
of such application will give rise to any materially new or materially different 
environmental effects in comparison with the authorised development as approved, then 
the application is to be taken to have been refused by the relevant planning authority at 
the end of that period. 
Further information 
2.—(1) In relation to any part of the application to which this Schedule applies, the relevant 
planning authority has the right to request such further information from the undertaker as is 
necessary to enable it to consider the application. 
(2) In the event that it considers such further information to be necessary it must, within twenty 
one (21) business days of receipt of the application, notify the undertaker in writing specifying the 
further information required and (if applicable) to which part of the application it relates. In the 
event that the relevant planning authority does not give such notification within this twenty one 
(21) day period it is deemed to have sufficient information to consider the application and 
thereafter is not entitled to request further information without the prior agreement of the 
undertaker. 
(3) Where further information is requested under this paragraph 2 in relation to part only of an 
application, that part is to be treated as separate from the remainder of the application for the 
purposes of calculating time periods in paragraph 1(1)(b), paragraph 1(3) and paragraph 2. 
Appeals 
3.—(1) The undertaker may appeal in the event that: 
 
76 
(a) the relevant planning authority refuses (including a deemed refusal pursuant to paragraph 
1(3)) an application for any consent, agreement or approval required by a requirement 
included in this Order or grants it subject to conditions; 
(b) on receipt of a request for further information pursuant to paragraph 2 the undertaker 
considers that either the whole or part of the specified information requested by the 
relevant planning authority is not necessary for consideration of the application; or 
(c) on receipt of any further information requested, the relevant planning authority notifies 
the undertaker that the information provided is inadequate and requests additional 
information which the undertaker considers is not necessary for consideration of the 
application. 
(2) The appeal process is to be as follows: 
(a) The undertaker must submit the appeal documentation to the Secretary of State and must 
on the same day provide copies of the appeal documentation to the relevant planning 
authority and any requirement consultee; 
(b) The Secretary of State must appoint a person within twenty (20) business days of 
receiving the appeal documentation and must forthwith notify the appeal parties of the 
identity of the appointed person and the address to which all correspondence for his 
attention should be sent; 
(c) The relevant planning authority and any requirement consultee must submit written 
representations to the appointed person in respect of the appeal within twenty (20) 
business days of the start date and must ensure that copies of their written representations 
are sent to each other and to the undertaker on the day on which they are submitted to the 
appointed person; 
(d) The appeal parties must make any counter-submissions to the appointed person within 
twenty (20) business days of receipt of written representations pursuant to sub-paragraph 
(c) above; and 
(e) The appointed person must make his decision and notify it to the appeal parties, with 
reasons, as soon as reasonably practicable and in any event within thirty (30) business 
days of the deadline for the receipt of counter-submissions pursuant to sub-paragraph (d). 
The appointment of the person pursuant to sub-paragraph (b) may be undertaken by a person 
appointed by the Secretary of State for this purpose instead of by the Secretary of State. 
(3) In the event that the appointed person considers that further information is necessary to 
enable him to consider the appeal he must, within five (5) business days of his appointment, notify 
the appeal parties in writing specifying the further information required. 
(4) Any further information required pursuant to sub-paragraph (3) must be provided by the 
undertaker to the appointed person, the relevant planning authority and any requirement consultee 
on the date specified by the appointed person (the “specified date”), and the appointed person 
must notify the appeal parties of the revised timetable for the appeal on or before that day. The 
revised timetable for the appeal must require submission of written representations to the 
appointed person within ten (10) business days of the specified date but must otherwise be in 
accordance with the process and time limits set out in sub-paragraph (2)(c)-(e). 
(5) On an appeal under this paragraph, the appointed person may— 
(a) allow or dismiss the appeal, or 
(b) reverse or vary any part of the decision of the relevant planning authority (whether the 
appeal relates to that part of it or not), 
and may deal with the application as if it had been made to him in the first instance. 
(6) The appointed person may proceed to a decision on an appeal taking into account only such 
written representations as have been sent within the relevant time limits. 
(7) The appointed person may proceed to a decision even though no written representations have 
been made within the relevant time limits, if it appears to him that there is sufficient material to 
enable a decision to be made on the merits of the case. 
 
77 
(8) The decision of the appointed person on an appeal is to be final and binding on the parties, 
and a court may entertain proceedings for questioning the decision only if the proceedings are 
brought by a claim for judicial review. 
(9) If an approval is given by the appointed person pursuant to this Schedule, it is deemed to be 
an approval for the purpose of Schedule 1 of this Order as if it had been given by the relevant 
planning authority. The relevant planning authority may confirm any determination given by the 
appointed person in identical form in writing but a failure to give such confirmation (or a failure to 
give it in identical form) is not to be taken to affect or invalidate the effect of the appointed 
person’s determination. 
(10) The appointed person may or may not be a member of the Planning Inspectorate but must 
be a qualified town planner of at least ten (10) years’ experience. 
(11) Save where a direction is given pursuant to sub-paragraph (12) requiring the costs of the 
appointed person to be paid by the relevant planning authority, the reasonable costs of the 
appointed person must be met by the undertaker. 
(12) On application by the relevant planning authority or the undertaker, the appointed person 
may give directions as to the costs of the appeal parties and as to the parties by whom the costs of 
the appeal are to be paid. In considering whether to make any such direction and the terms on 
which it is to be made, the appointed person must have regard to Planning Practice Guidance: 
Appeals (March 2014) or any circular or guidance which may from time to time replace it. 
 
 
 
78 
 
SCHEDULE 11 
Article 33 
REMOVAL OF IMPORTANT HEDGEROWS 
 
Table 12 
(1) 
Area 
(2) 
Number of hedgerow shown on important 
hedgerow plan 
Mid Suffolk District Council 
Hedgerow 1, as shown between A-B on Sheet 1 
Mid Suffolk District Council 
Hedgerow 2, as shown between C-D on Sheet 1 
Mid Suffolk District Council 
Hedgerow 3, as shown between E-F on Sheet 1 
Mid Suffolk District Council 
Hedgerow 4, as shown between G-H on Sheet 1 
Mid Suffolk District Council 
Hedgerow 5, as shown between I-J on Sheet 1 
Mid Suffolk District Council 
Hedgerow 6, as shown between K-L on Sheet 1 
Mid Suffolk District Council 
Hedgerow 7, as shown between M-N on Sheet 1 
Mid Suffolk District Council 
Hedgerow 8, as shown between O-P on Sheet 1 
Mid Suffolk District Council 
Hedgerow 9, as shown between Q-R on Sheet 1 
Mid Suffolk District Council 
Hedgerow 10, as shown between S-T on Sheet 1 
Mid Suffolk District Council 
Hedgerow 11, as shown between U-V on Sheet 1 
 
79 
EXPLANATORY NOTE 
(This note is not part of the Order) 
This Order authorises Progress Power Limited (referred to in this Order as the undertaker) to 
construct, operate and maintain a gas fired electricity generating station. The Order would permit 
the undertaker to acquire, compulsorily or by agreement, land and rights in land and to use land 
for this purpose. The Order also makes provision in connection with the maintenance of the new 
section of highway. 
A copy of the Order plans and the book of reference mentioned in this Order and certified in 
accordance with article 38 of this Order (certification of plans, etc.) may be inspected free of 
charge during working hours at the offices of Mid Suffolk County Council 131 High Street, 
Needham Market, Suffolk, IP6 8 DL.  
 
80 
