 
Group Tax Strategy 
For the Financial Year ending 31 December 2018 
 
Our governance arrangements 
Our tax strategy is governed by the Drax Group plc (the “Group”) Board. The 
responsibility for implementing it rests with our Group Head of Tax who reports 
to the Chief Financial Officer. The Group CFO reports regularly to the Board and 
Audit Committee on such matters, or on an ad hoc basis if the need arises. That 
strategy is applied consistently to all companies within Drax Group.  
The strategy is supported by internal control frameworks which govern the 
operations of Drax Group, and are subject to regular reviews by the Group’s 
internal audit function. Such control frameworks and systems also underpin our 
compliance with the UK Senior Accounting Officer legislation.  
Day to day oversight and responsibility for the management of the Group’s tax 
affairs and compliance with that tax strategy is delegated to the Group Head of 
Tax, who reports to the Audit Committee through the year on key aspects of 
compliance. The Group is liable to a range of taxes principally in the UK, including 
corporation taxes, VAT, payroll costs, climate change levy and landfill tax. To meet 
our compliance obligations, the Group Head of Tax is supported by in-house tax 
and accounting professionals within our corporate function and business unit 
teams.  
 
Our approach to tax planning and tax risk 
The Group understands that tax is inherent in every commercial transaction so 
our tax team are involved in all significant business activities and developments, 
so that enables us to fully assess any potential tax consequences of our actions.   
Our approach to tax will only seek to utilise the reliefs and incentives that exist 
within the territotries that we operate, and are available to us in accordance with 
our commercial strategy and activities.  
 As a responsible tax payer, we expect our suppliers to act responsibly too, and as 
part of our supply chain code of conduct, we ask that our suppliers observe similar 
principles set out in the UK Government’s Procurement Contract guidelines.  
All subsidiaries of the group are subject to tax in their place of residence and 
where economic allegiance is created, ensuring that tax is paid in the places where 
resources are utilised.   
At 31 December 2017 we have a subsidiary undertaking which is incorporated in 
a low tax jurisdiction but is dormant and in any event is resident in the UK for tax 
purposes and would therefore pay UK tax on any profits arising. 
 
The level of tax risk the Group prepared to accept 
 We take a responsible approach to managing our tax affairs and we will always 
comply with applicable tax laws and regulations in the countries in which we 
operate.  
Our approach to tax risk follows the same principles that apply to all other 
business risks. Maintaining our reputation with stakeholders and our upholding 
high corporate social responsibilities have always been important to us and are 
key considerations in assessing risk. In keeping with our values we will always 
seek to do the right thing in maintaining that position. That assessment will 
inevitably also take into account the materiality of any item, but we do not set 
defined limits on what is acceptable/non acceptable risk.  
Instead, if we identify a material tax uncertainty, we will seek appropriate and 
proportionate external advice from reputable professional firms, and/or if the 
channel exists, we will engage with respective tax authorities to resolve that 
uncertainty.  
Our tax filings/tax positions will only be led by commercial activities, and where 
judgement is required to include tax sensitive items in a tax return, we will only 
include them where we reasonably believe that, on balance, the treatment of the 
item is in accord with tax law. This includes our internal tax specialists giving the 
matter due consideration and where appropriate the assessment of case law, 
published intentions of the law setters, third party advisor opinion and tax 
authority guidance. It will also consider the potential impact on our ongoing 
relationship with the tax authorities.  
Our approach to dealings with HMRC 
We actively seek open dialogue with HM Revenue & Customs in pursuit of a 
professional and constructive ‘no surprises’ working relationship. As part of that 
relationship, HMRC risk assesses Drax as Low Risk. This assessment reflects our 
complexity and size, but also our openness and cooperation and our ability to 
deliver the right tax at the right time through processes, systems and skills. We 
meet regularly with HMRC as we see the value in working with tax authorities so 
they better understand developments in our business. It also provides the 
opportunity to share information about tax matters impacting our business and to 
agree tax positions collaboratively and where possible on a real-time basis.  
 
