27 February 2020 
DRAX GROUP PLC (Symbol: DRX) 
FULL YEAR RESULTS FOR THE TWELVE MONTHS ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 
 
Strong financial performance, biomass cost reduction and end of coal generation in 2021 
 
Twelve months ended 31 December 
2019 
2018 
Key financial performance measures 
 
 
Adjusted EBITDA (£ million)(1)(2) 
410 
250 
Net cash from operating activities (£ million) 
413 
311 
Net debt (£ million)(3) 
841 
319 
Total dividends (pence per share) 
15.9 
14.1 
Adjusted basic earnings per share (pence)(1) 
29.9 
10.4 
Total financial performance measures 
 
 
Operating profit (£ million) 
62 
60 
Profit after tax (£ million) 
1 
20 
Basic earnings per share (pence) 
0.1 
5.0 
 
Financial highlights 
• 
Group Adjusted EBITDA up 64 percent to £410 million (2018: £250 million) 
- 
Includes £114 million from acquired hydro and gas generation assets (2019 guidance of £90-110 million) 
• 
Strong cash generation and balance sheet 
- 
Net cash from operating activities up 33 percent to £413 million (2018: £311 million) 
- 
1.9x net debt to Adjusted EBITDA adjusted to reflect Capacity Market payments received in January 2020 
- 
Refinancing of hydro and gas generation assets acquisition facility completed, includes ESG CO2-linked facility and infrastruc-
ture private placement extending to 2029 – interest rates below three percent 
• 
Sustainable and growing dividend up 13 percent to 15.9 pence per share (2018: 14.1 pence per share)   
- 
Final dividend of 9.5 pence per share (2018: 8.5 pence per share) 
 
Operational highlights 
• 
Reduction in US self-supply pellet cost – $161/tonne(4) (2018: $166/tonne(4)) 
• 
Strong system support performance – 63 percent increase in value from flexibility(5) – £129 million (2018: £79 million) 
• 
Integration of acquired hydro and gas generation assets complete  
• 
47 percent reduction in reported carbon emissions – 2.4Mt(6) (2018: 4.5Mt(6)) 
 
Progress with strategic initiatives – building a long-term future for sustainable biomass 
• 
Clear plan to reduce US costs and expand capacity – $35/t (£13/MWh(7)) saving on 1.85Mt by 2022 
• 
Targeting five million tonnes of self-supply at £50/MWh(7) by 2027 from expanded sources of sustainable biomass 
• 
BECCS(8) – development of technology options – proven and emerging technology options for at-scale carbon negative generation 
at Drax Power Station 
• 
End of coal operations will support further reduction in CO2 emissions and lower cost operating model for biomass 
 
Outlook – 2020 
• 
Strong contracted forward power sales of 15.8TWh at £53.9/MWh and high proportion of non-commodity revenues 
• 
Evaluating attractive investment options for growth: biomass cost reduction and capacity expansion 
 
Will Gardiner, CEO of Drax Group said: “Drax has delivered a strong set of full-year results following the successful integration of new 
hydro and gas generation assets and made good progress with its strategic initiatives to build a long-term future for sustainable bio-
mass and be the leading provider of power system stability. Drax achieved these results while still delivering a 47 percent reduction in 
its carbon emissions compared with the previous year.” 
 
“And today, Drax has also taken a significant step towards its ambition to be carbon negative by 2030 and help the UK achieve its net 
zero target by ending coal generation ahead of the Government’s target. This moves Drax and the UK closer to meeting their climate 
targets, while continuing to provide the flexible and reliable renewable power that millions of British homes and businesses rely on.” 
 
“Drax remains fully committed to the regions where it operates and with the right regulatory and investment framework is well positioned 
to deliver its plans for Yorkshire and the Humber. Using bioenergy with carbon capture and storage at Drax would anchor a new zero 
carbon cluster that could help protect thousands of jobs and create new opportunities for clean growth in the north and throughout the 
UK.” 
 
Operational review 
Pellet Production – focus on capacity expansion with good quality pellets at lowest cost 
• 
Adjusted EBITDA up 52 percent to £32 million (2018: £21 million) 
- 
Pellet production up four percent to 1.41Mt (2018: 1.35Mt) 
- 
Cost of production down three percent to $161/tonne(4) (2018: $166/tonne(4)) 
- 
Weather-affected forestry activities in H1 leading to reduced low-cost input fibre, offset by cost reduction initiatives and stronger 
output in H2  
• 
Delivering a programme of cost reduction initiatives – targeting $35/t (£13/MWh(7)) on 1.85Mt by 2022 
- 
Projects delivered in 2019 with further benefits in 2020 
- 
LaSalle Bioenergy – improved rail infrastructure, woodyard decommissioning and sawmill co-location 
- 
Ongoing saving from 2018 relocation of HQ from Atlanta to Monroe 
- 
Savings from projects to be delivered in 2020-2022 
- 
0.35Mt capacity expansion (LaSalle, Morehouse and Amite), sawmill co-locations and woodyard decommissioning (More-
house and Amite), increased use of dry shavings, improved logistics and other operational enhancements 
 
Power Generation – flexible, low carbon and renewable generation  
• 
Adjusted EBITDA up 76 percent to £408 million (2018: £232 million) 
- 
£114 million of Adjusted EBITDA from acquired hydro and gas generation assets (guidance of £90-110 million) 
- 
Strong system support performance – 63 percent increase in value from flexibility(5) to £129 million (2018: £79 million) 
- 
Good commercial availability across the portfolio – 88 percent (2018: 87 percent) 
• 
£78 million of Capacity Market agreements (2018: £6 million) following re-establishment of the  
market 
• 
Biomass output (net sales) down three percent to 13.4TWh (2018: 13.8TWh) 
- 
H1 – ROC(9) generation reprofiled to reflect weather-affected US biomass supplies 
- 
H2 – record biomass output in November and December 2019 reflecting excellent operational availability 
• 
Coal – Four percent of portfolio generation but with incremental value from buy back of forward power sales 
• 
Gas – Damhead Creek restricted hours ahead of inspection and Shoreham interim inspection brought forward 
 
Customers – growth in margin per MWh and customer meters  
• 
Adjusted EBITDA of £17 million (2018: £28 million) 
- 
2019 includes £8 million of restructuring costs 
- 
Growth in gross profit per MWh – focus on customer value over volume (MWh) – £6.7/MWh vs. £6.6/MWh 
- 
Six percent growth in customer meters to 419,000 (2018: 396,000) 
- 
Improvement in bad debt charge – £18 million (2018: £31 million) 
• 
Investment in restructuring to drive future earnings growth 
 
Other financial information  
• 
Tax rate benefits from Patent Box claims – corporation tax of 10% on profits arising from investment in innovation 
• 
Capital investment of £172 million 
- 
Includes 0.35Mt of new low-cost US pellet capacity (£10 million in 2019 and £40 million in 2020) 
• 
Net debt of £841 million, including cash and cash equivalents of £404 million (31 December 2018: £289 million) 
- 
1.9x net debt to Adjusted EBITDA adjusted to reflect receipt of Capacity Market payments in  
January 2020 
 
Notes: 
(1) 
Adjusted Results are stated after adjusting for exceptional items (including acquisition and restructuring costs, asset obsolescence charges and debt 
restructuring costs), and certain remeasurements. 
(2) 
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation, excluding the impact of exceptional items and certain remeasurements. 
(3) 
Borrowings less cash and cash equivalents.  
(4) 
Cost of production in US biomass self-supply business – raw fibre, plus processing into a wood pellet, delivery to port of Baton Rouge and loading to 
vessel for shipment to UK – Free on Board (FOB). Cost of ocean freight, UK port and rail cost reflected in UK generation business accounts in addition to 
price paid to US business for the wood pellet. 
(5) 
Balancing Market, Ancillary Services and advantaged fuels. 
(6) 
Scope 1 & 2 – 2019 includes hydro and gas generation assets. 
(7) 
Assuming a constant rate of $USD1.45/£GBP. 
(8) 
BioEnergy Carbon Capture and Storage. 
(9) 
Renewables Obligation Certificate. 
 
 
Forward Looking Statements   
This announcement may contain certain statements, statistics and projections that are or may be forward-looking. The accuracy and completeness 
of all such statements, including, without limitation, statements regarding the future financial position, strategy, projected costs, plans and objectives 
for the management of future operations of Drax Group plc ("Drax") and its subsidiaries (the "Group") are not warranted or guaranteed. By their 
nature, forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that may occur in the 
future. Although Drax believes that the expectations reflected in such statements are reasonable, no assurance can be given that such 
expectations will prove to be correct and because these statements involve risks and uncertainties, actual results may differ materially from those 
expressed or implied by those forward-looking statements. There are a number of factors, many of which are beyond the control of the Group, 
which could cause actual results and developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. These 
factors include, but are not limited to, factors such as: future revenues being lower than expected; increasing competitive pressures in the industry; 
and/or general economic conditions or conditions affecting the relevant industry, both domestically and internationally, being less favourable than 
expected. We do not intend to publicly update or revise these projections or other forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances 
after the date hereof, and we do not assume any responsibility for doing so.   
Results presentation meeting and webcast arrangements 
Management will host a presentation for analysts and investors at 9:00am (UK Time), Thursday 27 February 2020, at FTI Consulting, 200 
Aldersgate, Aldersgate Street, London, EC1A 4HD. 
Would anyone wishing to attend please confirm by e-mailing Rosie.Corbett@fticonsulting.com or calling Rosie Corbett at FTI Consulting on  
+44 (0) 20 3727 1718 
The meeting can also be accessed remotely via a live webcast, as detailed below. After the meeting, the webcast will be made available and 
access details of this recording are also set out below. 
A copy of the presentation is available for download at: https://www.drax.com/investors/results-reports-agm/#investor-relations-presentations 
 
Event Title: 
Drax Group plc: Full Year Results 
Event Date: 
Thursday 27 February 2020 
  
9:00am (UK time) 
  
  
Webcast Live Event Link 
https://secure.emincote.com/client/drax/drax005
 
  
  
Start Date: 
Thursday 27 February 2020 
Delete Date: 
Thursday 31 December 2020 
Archive Link: 
https://secure.emincote.com/client/drax/drax005
 
                                                                                                                                   
For further information please contact Rosie.Corbett@fticonsulting.com on +44 (0) 20 3727 1718 
Website: 
www.drax.com
 
  
 
 
Chair’s statement 
Introduction  
Drax Group’s purpose is to enable a zero carbon, lower cost energy future. Since 2012 Drax has reduced its reported carbon emissions by over 
85%. In December, we took a step further and announced an ambition to become carbon negative by 2030. With the right support and negative 
emissions framework from the UK Government, we believe we can realise this ambition.   
Through these activities we expect to play a major role in delivering the UK’s legally binding objective to become carbon neutral by 2050. 
The Group’s purpose informs our strategy through which we aim to build a long-term future for sustainable biomass, become the leading provider 
of system stability in the UK and give customers control of their energy. 
In 2019 we continued to make good progress in delivering this strategy. In doing so we are delivering higher quality earnings, reducing commodity 
exposure and creating opportunities for growth aligned with the UK’s carbon neutral agenda.  
Biomass has a long-term role to play in the UK and global energy markets as a flexible and sustainable source of renewable energy, as well as a 
means to deliver negative emissions. Key to securing this long-term role is reducing the cost of biomass. We aim to increase biomass self-supply to 
five million tonnes by 2027, which we believe will drive significant cost reduction and attractive returns to shareholders. We have made good 
progress in 2019 and will continue to implement measures to reduce costs and develop expansion opportunities in 2020.  
The Group is working with a range of partner organisations to outline a plan for the decarbonisation of the Humber area. This is an industrial area in 
the northeast of England with one of the highest levels of CO2 emissions, making it a natural and cost-effective location for the deployment of 
carbon capture and storage, using Bioenergy with Carbon Capture and Storage (BECCS) at Drax Power Station. Through these initiatives we 
hope to deliver long-term benefits to a wide range of stakeholders and support the UK’s transition to net zero. 
This is one example of how our engagement with stakeholders is an enabler to the delivery of our strategy. In our Annual Report, we provide further 
detail on our stakeholders and how members of the Board, including Non-Executive Directors, have participated in discussions and sought to 
understand views in order to inform decision making. 
Drax Power Station is the UK’s largest single source of renewable electricity, providing 11% of the total. During 2019 the Generation business 
managed a programme of major planned outages. The business also optimised biomass operations to reflect weather-related biomass supply 
chain constraints. Over the same period coal generation has reduced, reflecting challenging market conditions. Following a comprehensive review 
of operations and discussions with National Grid, Ofgem and the UK Government, the Board of Drax has determined to end commercial coal 
generation at Drax Power Station. Drax will shortly commence a consultation process with employees and trade unions with a view to ending coal 
operations in September 2022. Under these proposals, commercial generation from coal will end in March 2021 but the two coal units will remain 
available to meet Capacity Market obligations until September 2022. 
In December 2018 we completed the acquisition of a portfolio of hydro and gas generation assets from ScottishPower, making Drax the fourth largest 
electricity generator in the UK and a leading provider of system support services. During 2019 we successfully integrated these assets into our 
generation portfolio. The assets have performed strongly with returns significantly ahead of the Group’s cost of capital. 
Following weather-restricted production in the first quarter of 2019, our US Pellet Production business produced at full capacity. Our focus remains 
on the production of good quality and low-cost biomass. Although pellet quality improved in 2019, it was below the level we expect and we are 
focused on delivering further improvements during 2020. 
In our Customers business, which supplies electricity and gas to business customers, we made progress reducing cost, increased the margin per 
MWh and installed more smart meters year-on-year. However, in a challenging market, financial performance was below the level we expect and 
we have more work to do to realise the opportunities we continue to see in this area. During 2019 we consolidated the management team at Haven 
Power and Opus Energy into a single integrated team. We expect this new structure to improve operational efficiency. 
Results and dividend 
Adjusted EBITDA in 2019 of £410 million grew by 64% compared to 2018 (£250 million). This reflects high levels of renewable power generation 
from sustainable biomass, a strong performance from the hydro and gas generation businesses, as well as continued growth in our Pellet 
Production business. 
At the 2019 half year results we confirmed an interim dividend of £25 million (6.4 pence per share). The Board proposes to pay a final dividend in 
respect of 2019 of £38 million, equivalent to 9.5 pence per share, making the full year 2019 dividend £63 million (15.9 pence per share) (2018: £56 
million, 14.1 pence per share). This represents a 13% increase on 2018 and is consistent with our policy to pay a dividend which is sustainable and 
expected to grow as the strategy delivers stable earnings, strong cash flows and opportunities for growth. 
The Group has a clear capital allocation policy which it has applied throughout 2019. In determining the rate of growth in dividends from one year to 
the next the Board will take account of contracted cash flows, the less predictable cash flows from the Group’s commodity based business and 
future investment opportunities. If there is a build-up of capital, the Board will consider the most appropriate mechanism to return this to 
shareholders. 
Governance and values 
Sustainability is at the heart of the Group and its culture. It covers the sustainable sourcing of biomass, which is a core principle of the Group, and 
also long-term sustainability. This means achieving a positive economic, social and environmental impact and considering long, medium and short-
term factors in our stewardship of the business. 
We are committed to promoting the UN Global Compact principles on respect for human rights, labour rights, the environment and anti-corruption. 
Our aim is to maintain an open and collaborative culture across the Group. Setting the right standards helps to protect the business and the 
interests of our stakeholders. We remain committed to the highest standards of corporate governance and the Board and its committees play an 
active role in guiding the Company and leading its strategy.  
In 2019 we saw several changes to the Board, including the appointment of Andy Skelton as Chief Financial Officer (CFO). Andy is highly 
experienced, having previously served as CFO at Fidessa Group plc.  
We greatly value the contribution made by our Non-Executive Directors and during a time of growth their role remains especially important. David 
Lindsell, Tony Thorne and Tim Cobbold each stepped down, and I would like to thank all three for their very significant contributions to the Board 
and the stewardship of the business. 
John Baxter joined the Board in April 2019 and brings a wealth of industry, engineering and safety management expertise.  
Our people  
Our people – employees and contractors – remain a key asset of the business and we are focused on creating a diverse and inclusive working 
environment that is both safe and supportive.  
We recognise the importance of listening to employees to understand their concerns and act on them. To that end, in 2019, we established an 
enhanced programme of workforce engagement to improve communication and feedback between the Board, senior management and our 
workforce. Together with Will Gardiner, our CEO, I participated in meetings with the chairs of our newly established engagement forums. 
Safety is a long-held and central commitment of our operational philosophy. While the number of incidents is low, we need to remain vigilant and 
work to reduce them. We are committed to the highest standards and have continued our efforts to strengthen our approach to health, safety and 
wellbeing governance across the Group. 
To conclude, in 2019 we delivered strong financial performance and made good progress with our strategic objectives. I look forward to building on 
these in 2020. Through this strategy we will deliver sustainable long-term value, support the communities in which we operate and realise our 
purpose of enabling a zero carbon, lower cost energy future. 
Philip Cox CBE 
Chair 
CEO’s review 
2019 was an important year for Drax Group. Following the acquisition of the hydro and gas generation assets from ScottishPower in December 
2018, we are now the UK’s fourth largest generator, meeting 5% of its power requirements, and generating 12% of the country’s renewable power. 
In 2019, we continued to advance our purpose of enabling a zero carbon, lower cost energy future. In December 2019, we announced a world first 
ambition to become a carbon negative company by 2030, removing more CO2 from the atmosphere than we put into it. We have made significant 
progress towards that goal, as the carbon emissions from the Group have reduced by more than 85% since 2012. We now expect to take this a 
step further with the end of commercial coal generation in 2021 and the formal closure of the coal units in 2022. 
The safety and wellbeing of our workforce is paramount to the Group. We continue to invest in the systems, governance and training to keep our 
workforce and assets safe. 
Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR), a key scorecard measure of safety, was 0.22. This was the same as in 2018 although behind the 
challenging scorecard target for 2019. Safety remains our priority and as always there is more we can do in our pursuit of zero incidents. 
Alongside a good operational performance, we delivered Adjusted EBITDA of £410 million, an increase of 64% on 2018. We propose to pay a 
dividend in respect of 2019 of £63 million, an increase of 13% on 2018. By the end of the 2019, net debt was £841million, 1.9x net debt to EBITDA, 
ahead of target of 2.0x, after adjusting for deferred cash receipt of Capacity Market payments of £72 million, received in January 2020. 
Purpose and Strategy 
Drax’s purpose, to enable a zero carbon, lower cost energy future, sits at the heart of everything we do. We see growing opportunities to create 
value for shareholders as well as significant benefits for all stakeholders as we deliver that purpose. 
 
2019 saw increasing global recognition of the need for urgent action to tackle climate change by reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The UK 
Government has taken a lead by putting in place legally binding targets to deliver net zero carbon emissions across the UK economy by 2050. This is 
an ambitious target which can only be delivered with action and investment now. 
We are playing a key role in this transformation. The CO2 emissions at Drax Power Station were less than one million tonnes for the first time, a 97% 
reduction since 2012, and it is now the UK’s largest source of renewable power generation. This was achieved through our continued focus on 
renewable biomass combined with operational excellence and innovative engineering. 
While others target net zero, in December 2019, Drax became the first company in the world to announce an ambition to become carbon negative 
by 2030 – removing CO2 from the atmosphere using Bioenergy with Carbon Capture and Storage (BECCS) to safely capture and store CO2 at 
scale.  
In May 2019 the UK Committee on Climate Change published its pathway for how the UK can deliver net zero carbon emissions by 2050. It 
highlighted the need for BECCS. Drax is in a leading position to deliver BECCS at scale in the UK and provide as much as a third of the negative 
emissions the UK will require. We believe we can deliver the engineering solution, but our ambition also requires the right regulatory framework and 
policy support to underpin an investment decision. 
To support that process, in May 2019 we joined with National Grid and Equinor to advocate for a framework to support the development of a 
carbon cluster in the Humber region, one of the most carbon intensive areas of the UK. This programme is called Zero Carbon Humber. 
The Group’s purpose informs the three pillars of our strategy (i) to build a long-term future for biomass, (ii) to be the leading provider of power 
system stability and (iii) to give our customers control of their energy.  
In 2019 we continued to make good progress delivering our purpose and strategy. Through addressing UK energy needs, and those of our 
customers, our strategy is designed to deliver excellent long-term financial performance across the Group. In doing so we are reducing our historic 
exposure to commodity markets and delivering higher quality earnings, strong cash generation, increased dividends to shareholders and further 
opportunities for growth. 
A good example of this is the successful integration of a generation portfolio of flexible, low carbon and renewable hydro and gas generation assets 
acquired in December 2018. Our expanded asset base has improved the risk profile of the Group and provided more opportunities to deliver system 
support services to the UK energy market. Our expected EBITDA from these assets was £90-£110 million and they have delivered £114 million of 
high-quality earnings, with financial returns significantly ahead of the Group’s cost of capital. 
As part of our strategy to deliver a long-term future for sustainable biomass, in November 2019, we announced plans to expand our supply chain to 
self-supply five million tonnes of biomass to our generation business by 2027. In 2019 we self-supplied 1.4 million tonnes. We expect this 
expansion to be delivered through existing sites, new developments and a wider fuel envelope of sustainable biomass. Through these initiatives we 
expect to reduce the cost of biomass from around £75/MWh to £50/MWh by 2027, assuming an exchange rate of $1.45/£. This is a level at which 
we believe renewable electricity from biomass can be economic without the current support mechanisms. 
These activities, alongside the development of a biomass trading capability, could enable Drax to develop an unsubsidised biomass generation 
business by 2027, with the option to service wood pellet demand in Europe, North America and Asia. 
Summary of 2019 
Overall performance of the Group and its business units is measured as part of our Group Scorecard which covers a combination of financial, 
environmental, social and governance issues. The Group’s score in 2019 was 0.9, with a score of 1.0 being on target. 
Adjusted EBITDA, a key financial KPI, of £410 million represents a 64% increase on 2018. This includes £78 million of Capacity Market income in 
respect of the whole of 2019 and the last two months of 2018.  
Despite challenging weather conditions in early 2019, Pellet Production increased output across the full year from 1.35 million tonnes to 1.40 million 
tonnes. At the same time, the cost of producing and delivering wood pellets to our port facility at Baton Rouge reduced from $166/tonne in 2018 to 
$161/tonne in 2019, although challenges remain in terms of pellet quality. 
In Generation, the integration and performance of the acquired assets was a success. At Drax Power Station we managed lower levels of biomass 
availability, which restricted generation in early 2019. By optimising biomass generation under the Renewables Obligation (RO) scheme we were 
able to partially offset the constraint by producing higher levels of biomass generation later in the year, particularly December, in which we reported 
record monthly renewable generation. The business also completed a programme of major planned outages across the portfolio.  
In our Customers business, which supplies electricity and gas to business customers, we have made progress reducing cost, however 
performance elsewhere has been below our expectation. This in part reflects a challenging market and we have more work to do to deliver the 
opportunities we continue to see in this area. 
During the year we completed the refinancing of the funding used to acquire the hydro and gas generation assets. These new facilities extend the 
Group’s debt maturity profile to 2029, incorporating a £125 million Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) facility with a mechanism that 
adjusts the interest margin based on Drax’s carbon emissions against an annual benchmark. We believe we are one of the first companies to 
implement such a feature within its debt, demonstrating our commitment to embedding ESG in financial performance. The Group’s cost of debt is 
now below 4% and below 3% on the new facilities, reflecting a reduced business risk. 
Operational review 
In the US, our Pellet Production operations reported Adjusted EBITDA of £32 million up 52% (2018: £21 million).  
High levels of rainfall in the US Gulf in early 2019 restricted the level of commercial forest extraction and the availability of low-cost fibre for wood 
pellet production. This in turn had an impact on the shipment of pellets from the port of Baton Rouge. Since then commercial forestry processes, 
wood pellet production and shipments to the UK have increased. As a result, wood pellet volumes for 2019 were 1.40 million tonnes, up 4% (2018: 
1.35 million tonnes). 
Pellet quality, as measured by the amount of fines (larger particle-sized dust) in each cargo, is a KPI for the Group. Lower levels of fines result in 
fuel that is easier and safer to handle at ports and at Drax Power Station. The quality of the pellets we produced was below our target level in 2019 
and we are taking steps to address this issue in 2020. 
We have remained focused on opportunities across the supply chain to deliver improved operational performance and cost savings as part of our 
programme to reduce the cost of biomass to £50/MWh by 2027. We have made good progress with increased volumes, operational improvements 
and greater utilisation of low-cost fibre which have contributed to lower cost wood pellet production. 
A co-location agreement with Hunt Forest Products (a sawmill operator) led to the development of a sawmill next to our LaSalle site. The sawmill 
commenced production in February 2019 providing greater access to low-cost sawmill residues, lower transportation costs and a reduction in the 
number of stages in the production process. 
A new rail spur linking LaSalle to the regional rail network and our port facility at Baton Rouge was commissioned in May 2019. This will increase 
transportation efficiency, provide economies of scale and reduce both cost and carbon footprint.  
We expect to benefit from further economies of scale in rail associated with the commissioning of an enlarged chambering yard at the port of Baton 
Rouge in 2020, allowing 80-car train sets to operate from our LaSalle and Morehouse sites. 
These initiatives and others have contributed to a year-on-year reduction in cost per tonne of 3%, which represents a saving of $5 per tonne 
compared to 2018.  
We expect to deliver further savings by expanding our existing sites (LaSalle, Morehouse and Amite) by 350,000 tonnes over the next two years – 
an investment of £50 million. This will expand total capacity to 1.85Mt, provide economies of scale and allow greater utilisation of low-cost residues. 
We believe these projects offer returns significantly ahead of the Group’s cost of capital, with payback in advance of 2027. 
These larger projects are accompanied by small operational improvements such as greater efficiency in the loading of road haulage, saving 50 
cents per tonne. Over time these improvements, when applied across the supply chain, can deliver significant incremental savings. 
Taking the savings in 2019 together with the other initiatives we have described, we believe there are opportunities to reduce the cost of biomass 
by $35 per tonne (£13/MWh) on our existing portfolio by 2022. This represents good progress, but more work and investment will be required to 
deliver our goal of making biomass power generation economically sustainable without subsidy. We expect to do this by using a greater proportion 
of lower cost wood residues, expanding our self-supply capacity to five million tonnes and exploring ways to expand our fuel envelope to include a 
wider range of sustainable low-cost biomass residues. 
In Generation, Adjusted EBITDA of £408 million was up 76% (2018: £232 million). This includes £114 million from the hydro and gas generation 
assets acquired in December 2018. These assets have performed strongly, exceeding our financial expectation in the first year of ownership. 
Commercial availability, which measures the time we are available to operate in our markets, was 88% (2018: 89%). This was below our target and 
principally reflects restricted biomass generation in the first quarter of 2019 and gas unit outages. The engineering challenges associated with such 
an outage are significant and the completion of the work and recommissioning, which allowed a strong operational performance, is testament to the 
skill and commitment of our people. 
In 2019, we completed two major planned biomass outages, including the first in a series of three high-pressure turbine upgrades which we expect 
to increase thermal efficiency and reduce the cost of biomass generation. 
Notwithstanding these planned outages our biomass units produced 11% of the UK’s renewable electricity – enough to power four million homes. 
This level of renewable generation, combined with the flexibility of our expanding portfolio, allows the Group to support the continued deployment of 
intermittent renewables and the UK’s plans for decarbonisation.  
Over the last five years the operational experience with biomass generation has been positive and we are now exploring a wider range of 
sustainable biomass materials. In time we believe that utilisation of this expanded fuel mix will support a reduction in the cost of biomass 
generation. 
Our hydro assets, which include the Cruachan pumped storage power station as well as Lanark and Galloway hydro schemes, have performed 
strongly, providing flexible, renewable and low carbon electricity. Cruachan Power Station – the largest of these assets (440MW) – plays an 
important role in the provision of system support services to the UK energy market. Over 80% of Cruachan’s earnings are from non-commodity 
sources, including Balancing Market activities, Ancillary Services and the Capacity Market. 
We operate 2.0GW of Combined Cycle Gas Turbines (CCGT) – Damhead Creek, Shoreham, Rye House and Blackburn. These units produced 
2.9TWh, representing around 17% of our total generation. The location of three of the four units in southeast England makes them well placed to 
provide system support services to the UK energy market. 
During the year we completed two planned outages, including turbine repairs and interim inspection work at Shoreham Power Station, providing 
the option for a future turbine upgrade to take place. 
Since the start of 2019 seasonal electricity prices have weakened, reflecting a mild winter and high levels of European gas storage. The market for 
coal generation has remained challenging and our two coal units continue to focus on short-term power market opportunities during higher demand 
periods. Coal generation of 0.6TWh represents 4% of the Group’s output. Where we sold forward volumes on a limited basis, weaker power prices 
allowed us to buy back some of those volumes at a lower price, adding margin. 
The flexibility and dispatchable nature of our generation portfolio is an important source of value and was a key factor in our acquisition of the hydro 
and gas generation assets. Given the shift towards wind generation, which will provide the majority of the UK’s future electricity requirements, we 
anticipate a growing need for system support services. In 2019 Value from Flexibility (a scorecard measure of the value from flexible power 
generation, system support services and attractively priced coal fuels) was £129 million (2018: £79 million), which was ahead of plan, reflecting a 
63% increase on 2018.  
We believe there is a need for flexible, large-scale dispatchable generation, but this must support the UK’s target of net zero carbon emissions by 
2050. To that end we continue to develop options for four 299MW Open Cycle Gas Turbines (OCGTs) and 5.4GW of CCGTs between Damhead 
Creek and Drax Power Station. 
We expect the CCGTs to be among the most efficient assets in their class and hence sit high in the UK merit order, in addition to being available for 
system support services. The OCGTs will perform a system support role and meet peak power demand at short notice.  
An appropriate clearing price in a future Capacity Market will be required to underpin investment in new-build gas. We will remain disciplined 
through this process and at the most recent auction in January 2020 Drax did not accept a Capacity Market agreement for these projects. We 
remain committed to developing the most cost-effective capital programmes for all of our gas projects, which we believe can make them 
competitive in future capacity auctions. 
Planning approval for the CCGT at Drax Power Station is subject to a judicial review and we will not participate in future Capacity Market auctions 
until the outcome is known. 
Our Customers business, which focuses on B2B supply, has faced a challenging market environment. Taken together with integration costs, 
Adjusted EBITDA of £17 million is lower than the prior year (2018: £28 million). This includes £8 million of investment in restructuring to integrate 
the Haven Power and Opus Energy brands under a single operating structure. The creation of a single management team is now complete and will 
help drive alignment of decision making, effective market segmentation and operational efficiencies.  
During the year significant focus was given to cash collection to address historic challenges associated with bad debt at Opus Energy. As a result 
we have seen further improvements in the management of bad debts during the period, reflected in a reduced charge to the income statement of 
£18 million (2018: £31 million), whilst maintaining a prudent level of provision. 
We have a differentiated market position – selling purely renewable power, helping over 2,000 independent renewable generators access the 
market and developing products which will meet our customers’ needs. We continue to believe this approach will support long-term growth. 
Over time, we expect this business, through efficiency and demand-side response, to contribute increasingly to balancing the power system and 
we are excited about our opportunity to make a difference in this area. 
Biomass sustainability 
Under well-established UK and European legislation, sustainably sourced biomass is a renewable source of electricity. The rules and the science 
which underpins this treatment are clear. 
We source low-cost sawmill residues and forest residues, which are a by-product of commercial forestry processes, and thinnings from growing 
forests, which help improve forest stocks and forest health. The CO2 emissions are absorbed by new forest growth. We use feedstocks that have 
been shown to have no carbon debt associated with them. 
We maintain a rigorous and robust approach to biomass sustainability, ensuring the wood fibre used and pellets produced are fully compliant with 
the UK’s mandatory sustainability standards as well as those of the European Union. Since the introduction of the Renewable Obligation Certificate 
(ROC) scheme in 2002 Drax has maintained full compliance with UK and European legislation. 
However, there are carbon emissions associated with the biomass supply chain. Under UK legislation biomass is the only source of electricity 
generation required to report its supply chain emissions. The Group’s biomass life cycle carbon emissions are 124 kgCO2-eq/MWh of electricity 
(2018: 131 kgCO2-eq/MWh), less than half the UK Government’s 285 kgCO2-eq/MWh of electricity limit for biomass. This equates to an 87% 
carbon emission saving against coal, inclusive of biomass supply chain emissions, but excluding those of coal, which means the actual saving from 
biomass is even greater. 
Reflecting this and a lower level of coal generation, reported carbon emissions under the European Union Emissions Trading Scheme fell by 50% 
to 113tCO2/GWh (2018: 226tCO2/GWh). 
Strengthening our leadership on biomass sustainability, we introduced a new Responsible Sourcing Policy for Biomass and established an 
Independent Advisory Board, chaired by Sir John Beddington, the UK’s former Chief Scientific Adviser. We responded to the Climate Disclosure 
Programme’s (CDP) Climate Change and Forests questionnaires. 
Environmental, social and governance 
The health, safety and wellbeing of our employees and contractors is vital to the success of the Group and remains our priority. We believe that a 
safe and sustainable business model is critical to our strategy and long-term performance. In 2019 we implemented a new Group-wide approach to 
health, safety and wellbeing, as well as the establishment of a new Group-wide workforce engagement forum. 
In March 2019 we published our second gender pay report. While the data showed that our businesses were in line with the energy sector overall, 
it highlighted that we still have work to do.  
In June 2019, we published our third statement on the prevention of slavery and human trafficking in compliance with the UK Modern Slavery Act 
(2015) and we are a signatory to the UN Global Compact (UNGC). We are committed to promoting the UNGC principles on respect for human 
rights, labour rights, the environment and anti-corruption. 
Brexit 
Brexit remains a key issue for the UK. To date, the impact on the Group has been limited, with the principal risk being weaker Sterling affecting the 
cost of biomass, which is generally denominated in US dollars. Through our use of medium-term foreign exchange hedges the Group has 
protected its position out to 2024 at rates close to those that we saw before the Brexit referendum vote.  
Outlook 
Our focus remains on progressing our strategy: to build a long-term future for sustainable biomass; to be the leading provider of system stability in 
the UK and to give customers control of their energy. Through achieving these strategic objectives we expect to deliver tangible financial benefits – 
long-term earnings growth, strong cash generation and attractive returns for our shareholders.  
These activities continue to be underpinned by safety, sustainability and operational excellence. 
In Pellet Production we remain focused on the production of good quality pellets at the lowest cost, cross-supply chain optimisation and an 
expanded self-supply capacity to five million tonnes by 2027. 
Our Generation proposition is strong: flexible, renewable and low carbon electricity and system support services. We will continue to provide high 
levels of renewable electricity to the UK and support increased deployment of intermittent renewables necessary to support the UK’s transition to a 
net zero carbon economy. 
Flexible dispatchable gas has an important long-term role to play in supporting the transition to a net zero carbon economy. We will optimise our 
portfolio to meet this demand and develop carbon capture and storage ready projects – options which could include hydrogen fuelling – subject to 
the right price in future capacity auctions. 
Our ambition to become a carbon negative company is underpinned by the development of BECCS. Working in partnership, and with the right 
support from the UK Government, we could develop BECCS at scale before 2030. By reducing our biomass supply chain cost we will support this 
objective and deliver further attractive returns to shareholders.  
In our Customers business we will remain focused on operational excellence, reducing our cost to serve customers, growing gross profit per MWh 
and managing bad debt. We will offer attractive propositions and develop our presence in the market for system support through flexible demand 
management and other value-added services.  
We are making good progress with the delivery of our strategy and will build on this as we achieve our targets. We will also continue to play an 
important role in our markets as well as realising our purpose of enabling a zero carbon, lower cost energy future for the UK. 
Will Gardiner 
Group CEO 
 
Group financial review 
Introduction 
The Group has delivered significant growth during 2019, with Adjusted EBITDA increasing by 64% from £250 million to £410 million. 
Total operating profit, which includes the effect of remeasurement losses of £133 million (2018: remeasurement gains of £38 million) on derivative 
contracts, also increased from £60 million in 2018 to £62 million. 
Our new portfolio of pumped storage, hydro and gas-fired generation assets (hereafter referred to as the “new generation assets”), acquired on 
31 December 2018, delivered Adjusted EBITDA of £114 million. Growth was further supported by an increased contribution from renewable power 
generation from sustainable biomass at Drax Power Station and our Pellet Production business. 
This performance is particularly pleasing when considering the challenges we faced in the first half of the year where both our pellet production 
operations and biomass generation were impacted by lower levels of biomass supply as a result of historically bad weather conditions in the US 
Gulf.  
Following the reinstatement of the UK Capacity Market in October 2019, the results for the year include £78 million of capacity market income, 
including £7 million for the period in 2018 after its suspension. The associated cash was subsequently received after the year end and does not 
form part of our reported net debt at 31 December 2019. 
The Group improved its access to capital during 2019. We refinanced the acquisition bridge facility, used to part-fund the acquisition in December 
2018 of the new generation assets from ScottishPower, in three stages. 
In May, we issued an additional US $200 million of the existing 2025 6.625% loan notes. In July, we entered into two new senior debt facility 
agreements, a £375 million private placement and a £125 million environmental, social and governance (ESG) facility. The average rate of the two 
new facilities is below 3%, reducing the Group’s overall cost of debt to below 4%, reflecting a reduced business risk profile. 
Driven by strong cash generation in the period, supported by active management of working capital, net debt at 31 December 2019 was 
£841 million (2018: £319 million), delivering a net debt to Adjusted EBITDA ratio of 1.9x, ahead of our target of 2.0x for the year end after adjusting 
for the deferred receipt of £72 million cash in respect of Capacity Market payments received in January 2020. 
We remain committed to a sustainable and growing dividend. The Board will recommend at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting a final 
dividend that takes total dividends for the financial year to £63 million, or 15.9 pence per share, an increase of £7 million or 1.8 pence per share 
when compared to 2018. 
Financial Performance 
Adjusted EBITDA  
Group consolidated Adjusted EBITDA of £410 million includes a contribution of £114 million from our new generation assets, acquired at the end of 
2018. This is an excellent result and exceeds our forecast range of £90-£110 million, reflecting strong operational performance across the portfolio, 
better than expected performance in ancillary and balancing services and excellent progress with the integration of the assets into our existing 
generation business, which is now complete.  
In total, the Generation business contributed Adjusted EBITDA of £408 million (2018: £232 million), an increase of £176 million or 76%. This 
performance comes despite industry-wide challenges with wood pellet production and associated supply constraints in the first half of the year and 
includes the contribution of £114 million from our new generation assets, described above. 
Following the reinstatement of the Capacity Market in October 2019, we have recognised related income totalling £78 million across the Generation 
portfolio. Our financial results for 2018 excluded £7 million of capacity market income following its suspension in October 2018, and this amount 
has now been recognised in 2019. 
Total output at Drax Power Station reduced, as we continue our transition away from coal; however, our biomass units delivered output broadly in 
line with 2018, of 13.4TWh (2018: 13.7 TWh). The small reduction in part reflected an outage over the summer period on Unit 1, which is supported 
by the Contract for Difference (CfD). 
Despite lower CfD generation, overall renewable support under the CfD and ROC regimes remained broadly in line with the prior period, due to 
higher ROC generation and indexation of support payments. 
Overall captured spreads improved following efficiency gains as a result of our programme of investment in the performance of generating units at 
Drax Power Station and benefits from our trading position and portfolio. 
We continue to derive value from flexibility (balancing mechanism, ancillary services and advantaged fuels), which improved from £79 million in the 
prior year to £129 million in 2019, an increase of 63%. Our new hydro and pumped storage assets performed particularly strongly in this area, a 
demonstration of the contribution of the acquisition to our strategy to become the leading provider of system stability in the UK. 
The Generation business acquires biomass pellets predominantly in US dollars, which we actively hedge over a rolling five-year period, to manage 
our foreign currency exposure to a weaker pound. The renewable support (CfD and ROCs) received in respect of biomass generation are subject 
to UK inflation indices. This exposure is managed as part of our active long-term financial derivatives hedging programme. 
We hold a large portfolio of forward and option contracts for various commodities and financial products. These contracts are held to de-risk the 
business, by protecting the sterling value of future cash flows in relation to the sale of power or purchase of key commodities. We manage our 
exposures in accordance with our trading and risk management policies. 
From time to time, for example where market conditions or our trading expectations change, action may be needed in accordance with these 
policies to rebalance our portfolio. This year such activity included restructuring in-the-money foreign currency exchange contracts, to balance short 
and long periods across the duration of the hedge. During 2019 we also realised value from closing out positions as expectations for coal 
generation reduced, the benefit of which is included in value from flexibility, above. The financial impact of these activities – which is driven by 
market prices at the point of execution – is recognised in the cost of sales of our Generation business and therefore is reflected in our Adjusted 
Gross profit and Adjusted EBITDA. 
Our Customers business contributed Adjusted EBITDA of £17 million in 2019, an £11 million reduction when compared to 2018. 
The 2019 result for Customers includes £8 million of investment cost in the restructuring of the business, to more closely integrate our two brands 
and bring them under one management team (In 2018, £3 million of restructuring and integration costs were treated as exceptional and excluded 
from Adjusted results in the first year post-acquisition of Opus Energy), and a further £7 million for the development of next-generation IT systems 
(2018: £6 million).  
We delivered the new ERP system at Opus Energy during the second half of 2019 but have stopped the implementation of a new billing system 
and are in ongoing discussions with the supplier. We have incurred approximately £19 million of costs to date, held on the balance sheet, which we 
believe have value and will be recovered. 
Overall volumes sold were down by 9% compared to 2018, which largely reflects a mild 2018/19 winter that led to a challenging first half of the 
year. As a result, overall gross profit fell from £143 million in 2018 to £134 million in 2019.  
During the year, significant attention was focused on improving cash collections, where we have seen a positive performance. As a result of this, in 
addition to a £6 million benefit in respect of resolution of legacy credit balances, bad debt charges reduced from £31 million in 2018 to £18 million in 
2019. The higher charge in the prior year reflected an increased level of provisioning required due to reduced collection performance, plus a £3 
million one-off expense in respect of SME business. The closing provision at 31 December 2019 of £41 million is slightly lower than the prior year 
(2018: £44 million), reflecting the improved performance during the year. 
Pellet Production Adjusted EBITDA of £32 million increased 52% from £21 million in 2018.  
Production in the year increased slightly to 1,407kt (2018: 1,351kt), reflecting a full year of operations at the LaSalle pellet plant. This would have 
been higher but for challenging weather conditions in the first quarter, resulting from unseasonably high rainfall and associated high river levels, 
which materially restricted output at all three of our pellet plants and caused difficulties in loading ships at the port. 
We have made good progress with biomass cost reduction projects in the year, with the average cost per gigajoule of our self-supplied pellets 
falling to US $161/tonne in 2019 compared to US $166/tonne in the prior year.  
Key contributions to this saving came from the benefit of a full year of lower operational costs as a result of the headquarters relocation from Atlanta 
to Monroe during 2018 and the rail spur project at our LaSalle plant, commissioned in early May 2019, saving transport costs across the rest of 
2019 with a positive impact on supply chain emissions. Furthermore, the sawmill co-location project at the same plant has delivered further savings. 
The total savings from these projects delivered in 2019 was £14 million, which more than offset the weather impact described above. 
Central and other costs of £46 million have increased by £18 million in 2019.  
This increase includes incremental research and innovation costs associated with key strategic initiatives – including those relating to Bio-Energy 
Carbon Capture and Storage (BECCs). 
As we described at the half year, and in connection with the integration of the acquired generation assets; we incurred one-off costs implementing a 
new organisational structure that we believe will enable us to execute our strategy more effectively. Costs associated with delivering working capital 
initiatives have also increased. 
Total Operating Profit 
Total operating profit of £62 million has increased 3% from £60 million in 2018. This includes the effect of acquisition and restructuring costs and 
remeasurement gains and losses on derivative contracts that are excluded from Adjusted results.  
Acquisition and restructuring related costs of £9 million (2018: £28 million) reflect the first-year costs of integrating the new generation assets into 
our existing Generation business, following transaction costs associated with the acquisition last year. The integration is now complete, and in line 
with our policy no further acquisition and restructuring costs in relation to the acquired assets will be excluded from Adjusted EBITDA in 2020. 
Net fair value remeasurement losses on derivative contracts included in operating profit were £133 million (2018: gains of £38 million) reflecting 
movements in the mark-to-market position on our portfolio of commodity and financial derivative contracts, to the extent they do not qualify for 
hedge accounting.  
The losses in 2019 are predominantly the result of the strengthening of sterling in the period and the resulting impact on the value of our extensive 
portfolio of foreign currency exchange contracts, which provide a rolling five-year hedge against changes in exchange rates for fuel purchases 
denominated in foreign currencies. 
Profit After Tax and Earnings per Share  
Adjusted profit after tax of £118 million compares to £42 million for the prior year, resulting in Adjusted earnings per share (EPS) of 30 pence (2018: 
10 pence) which represents a 200% increase.  
Improvements in Adjusted profit after tax and EPS largely reflect the growth in Adjusted EBITDA described above, although this has been partially 
offset by higher depreciation charges resulting from the new generation assets, and an increase in interest charges as a result of the new debt 
issued to part-fund the acquisition, as described in further detail below. 
Total profit after tax of £1 million is lower than £20 million for last year, with a corresponding reduction in Total EPS from 5 pence in 2018 to nil 
pence in 2019. 
Total profit after tax reflects exceptional items and certain remeasurements, including the derivative remeasurements and acquisition and 
restructuring costs described above. In addition, it includes a further £5 million of interest charges relating to the acquisition bridge facility. These 
costs have been treated as exceptional given the direct link to the acquisition and their one-off nature (2018: £7 million). 
The total tax credit of £3 million (2018: £6 million) reflects an effective tax rate that is lower than the standard rate of tax in the UK. This principally 
reflects the benefit of patent box tax credits in respect of biomass research and development expenditure. Total patent box credits included in the 
overall tax credit for 2019 are £8 million (2018: £8 million). 
Cash taxes paid during the year were £9 million (2018: £1 million). 
Capital Expenditure 
We maintain a disciplined approach to capital expenditure, with all significant projects subject to appraisal and prioritisation by a Capital Committee 
prior to approval, overall ensuring adherence to our capital allocation policy and maintenance of an appropriate net leverage profile. 
Total capital expenditure of £172 million in 2019 was higher than £114 million in the prior year.  
The increase principally reflects additional expenditure in respect of the new generation assets, strategic projects and investments to progress our 
objective of increasing self-supply of pellets to 5 million tonnes and reduce the cost of pellets. 
We have made an initial investment in biomass expansion projects in the Pellet Production business, ahead of full delivery in 2020, in line with our 
strategy to expand self-supply. We have also continued investment in our gas development projects – our four OCGT sites, a new CCGT at Drax 
Power Station and the expansion option at Damhead Creek. 
Cash and Net Debt 
At 31 December 2019, total borrowings were £1,245 million (2018: £608 million) and net debt was £841 million (2018: £319 million). 
Following the reinstatement of the Capacity Market in October, we accrued the £78 million of associated income in full; however, the cash 
payments were not received until after the year end. After adjusting for the receipt of £72 million of cash in January 2020 in respect of Capacity 
Market payments, covering the standstill period, this reflects a net debt to EBITDA ratio for 2019 of 1.9x (2018: 1.3x), within our target of less than 
2x. Without adjusting year end net debt for this payment our closing net debt to EBITDA ratio was 2.1x. 
The increase in borrowings and net debt in 2019 reflects the additional debt drawn to part-fund the acquisition of the new generation assets, for 
which the cash consideration was settled in January 2019. 
Taking this into account, and allowing for a full year of EBITDA from the new generation assets in 2018, this represents a significant deleveraging 
on a like-for-like basis from a net debt to EBITDA ratio of 3.1x. 
On 2 January 2019, the Group drew down £550 million from the £725 million acquisition bridge facility to partially fund the acquisition, with the 
remainder of the consideration funded from the Group’s cash resources. At inception, the acquisition bridge facility was due to mature in the second 
half of 2020.  
During 2019, we refinanced the acquisition bridge facility in three stages, including two new long-term debt facilities. 
On 16 May 2019, we issued an additional US $200 million of the existing 2025 6.625% US dollar loan notes. The proceeds from the issuance were 
used to repay £150 million of the drawn down acquisition bridge facility. Reflecting the strong investor appetite, the notes were issued at 101.5% of 
their face value which, when swapped back into sterling, achieved an interest rate of 4.74%. 
On 24 July 2019, we entered into two new senior debt facilities agreements, a £375 million private placement with infrastructure lenders with 
maturities between 2024 and 2029, and a £125 million ESG facility agreement that matures in 2022. The ESG facility includes a mechanism that 
adjusts the margin based on carbon emissions against an annual benchmark. 
Together these new facilities extend the Group’s debt maturity profile beyond 2027 and reduce the Group’s overall cost of debt to below 4%. 
A full reconciliation of the Group’s borrowings in the period is provided in note 13 below. 
The Group continued to generate strong cash from operating activities in 2019, with a total inflow of £413 million in 2019 (2018: £311 million). The 
increase principally reflects improved profitability, the contribution from newly acquired generation assets and a disciplined approach to working 
capital, partially offset by increased interest payments on the expanded debt portfolio.  
In addition to the improvements in operating performance described above, the Group has a strong focus on cash flow discipline. We also use 
various methods to manage liquidity through the business’ cash generation cycle. 
The Group has access to a £315 million revolving credit facility, which can be used to manage low points in the cash cycle, which expires in 2021. 
No cash was drawn under this facility at 31 December 2019 (2018: £nil). We actively optimise our working capital position by managing payables, 
receivables and inventories to ensure that the working capital committed is closely aligned with operational requirements. 
The key working capital benefits in 2019, in terms of cash flow, arise from making sales and purchases of ROC assets and rebasing foreign 
currency exchange contracts. 
Historically, cash from ROCs has typically been realised several months after the ROC was earned at the end of the ROC compliance period; 
however, the Group is able to limit the overall impact of ROCs on working capital by making separate sales and purchases in the compliance 
period. For 2019, such transactions generated a net cash inflow of £131 million and supported an overall working capital inflow from ROCs of 
£54 million. The Group also has access to facilities enabling it to sell ROC trade receivables arising on a non-recourse basis. These facilities were 
not utilised at 31 December 2019 (2018: £nil). 
During 2019 the Group rebased several foreign currency contracts, which resulted in a working capital benefit. The total cash released from related 
trades still outstanding at the end of the year was £84 million (2018: £3 million) reflected in cash generated from operations. By undertaking a 
similar exercise on cross-currency swaps, we released a further cash benefit of £22 million (2018: £nil). This has no impact on Adjusted EBITDA, 
the gains are held on the Group’s balance sheet, until the rebased trades expire. 
In addition, the Group has access to a £200 million receivables monetisation facility (extended from £150 million in 2018), which accelerates 
associated cash flows and mitigates exposure to credit risk, and a number of payment facilities to leverage scale and efficiencies in transaction 
processing. We also facilitate a supply chain financing scheme, which enables certain suppliers to access payment earlier than contractually 
agreed payment terms and supports the wider working capital efficiency of the Group. The balances outstanding at 31 December 2019 and 
change in utilisation in respect of each of these facilities is set out in note 14 below. 
The overall net cash inflow for the year was £122 million (2018: £66 million), after cash payments for capital expenditure of £171 million (2018: 
£104 million), dividend payments of £59 million (2018: £53 million), net proceeds from new borrowings of £653 million (2018: net repayment of 
£5 million) and payments in respect of acquisitions of £692 million (2018: £nil). 
Distributions 
We have a long-standing capital allocation policy – a commitment to robust financial metrics that underpins our strong credit rating, invest in our 
core business, pay a sustainable and growing dividend and return surplus capital to shareholders as appropriate. 
At the Annual General Meeting on 17 April 2019, shareholders approved payment of a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2018 of 8.5 
pence per share (£34 million). The final dividend was paid on 10 May 2019. 
On 23 July 2019, the Board resolved to pay an interim dividend for the six months ended 30 June 2019 of 6.4 pence per share (£25 million), 
representing 40% of the expected full year dividend. The interim dividend was paid on 11 October 2019. 
At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, on 22 April 2020, the Board will recommend to shareholders that a resolution is passed to approve 
payment of a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2019 of 9.5 pence per share (£38 million), payable on or before 15 May 2020. Shares 
will be marked ex-dividend on 23 April 2020. This brings the total dividend payable for 2019 to £63 million and delivers 13% growth on 2018. 
The Group’s £50 million share buy-back scheme, which commenced in April 2018, concluded in January 2019. In total, 13.8 million shares were 
repurchased and are now held in treasury. 
Other Information 
New Accounting Standards 
The impact of adopting IFRS 16 during the financial year – the new accounting standard for leases – is set out in note 17 below. On transition, the 
Group elected to use the practical expedient available, allowing the standard to only be applied to those contracts identified as leases under the 
previous standards. As a result, adoption of IFRS 16 has not resulted in any retrospective changes to amounts recognised in the Group’s annual 
consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2018. 
Adoption of IFRS 16 has resulted in a reduction of operating costs in 2019 of £7.4 million, with the costs of leases now reflected as depreciation and 
interest charges. 
Had the standard been applied in 2018, the equivalent reduction in operating costs for the year ended 31 December 2018 would have been 
£6.3 million.  
Restatement of Comparative Financial Information 
The Group consolidated financial statements, include comparative information for the year ending 31 December 2018. 
The 2018 comparatives have been restated, from those originally published, in respect of the following items: 
• 
Finalisation of the opening values of assets and liabilities acquired in respect of the acquisition of the new generation assets on 31 
December 2018. During 2019, we concluded a completion statement process and identified adjustments to fixed asset values totalling 
£4 million. The net effect of these changes was a £5 million increase in consideration payable and a £3 million reduction in goodwill. See 
note 16. 
• 
Correction of an historical error identified in respect of translation of fixed assets in our US-based business into the consolidated group 
financial statements. Application of the correct foreign exchange rates resulted in an increase in fixed asset carrying values at 1 January 
and 31 December 2018 of £34 million and £56 million respectively, with an equivalent amount recognised in the translation reserve. The 
correction has no impact on previously reported profit or cash amounts. 
 
Viability statement 
In accordance with the UK corporate governance code, the Directors have assessed the prospects of the Group over a period significantly longer than the 
12 months required by the going concern provision. 
 
The assessment of viability was led by the Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer in conjunction with divisional and functional 
management teams and presented to the Board as part of the annual planning process. In reviewing this assessment, the Board has considered 
the principal risks faced by the Group, relevant financial forecasts and sensitivities, the availability of adequate funding and the strength of the 
Group’s control environment. 
Assessment period 
The Board conducted this assessment over a period of three years, selected for the following reasons: 
• 
The Group’s Business Plan (Plan) which is prepared annually, updated twice during the year and also used for strategic decision-
making, includes a range of financial forecasts and associated sensitivity analysis. This Plan covers a three-year period in detail, before 
extending into the medium term.  
• 
Within the three-year period liquid commodity market curves and established contract positions are used in the forecasts. Liquid curves 
typically cover a one to two-year window and contracts cover periods between one and ten years. In particular, the Group benefits from 
the stable and material earnings stream available from the CfD until 2027. Selecting a three-year period balances short-term market 
liquidity against longer-term contractual positions. 
• 
There is limited certainty around the Group’s markets and regulatory regimes. However, in selecting a three-year period the Board has 
assumed no material changes to the medium-term regulatory environment and associated support regimes beyond those already 
announced at the date of this report. 
 
Review of principal risks 
The Group’s principal risks and uncertainties, set out in detail below, have been considered over the period. 
The principal risks with the potential to exert significant influence on viability are: commodity price changes, political and regulatory changes, and 
plant operating failures. A significant adverse change to the status of each risk has the potential to place material financial stress on the Group. 
The risks were evaluated, where possible, to assess the potential impact of each on the viability of the Group, should that risk arise in its 
unmitigated form. The potential inputs were included, where appropriate, as sensitivities to the Plan and considered by the Board as part of the 
approval process, in January 2020, before the Plan was adopted by the Group. 
The Group has a proven track record of adapting to changes to its environment and deploying innovative solutions to protect its financial 
performance. Previous adverse events have arisen and provided challenges which tested the ability of the Group to deliver on its targets but, on 
each occasion, it has been able to respond positively and manage the impact. This provides the Board with confidence that risks can be sufficiently 
mitigated, and viability can be maintained, during the assessment period.  
Review of financial forecasts 
The Plan considers the Group’s financial position, performance, cash flows, credit metrics and other key financial ratios and was most recently 
updated to reflect current market and external environment conditions in December 2019. It is built by business and segment and includes growth 
assumptions appropriate to the markets each business serves.  
The Plan includes certain assumptions, the most material of which relate to commodity market price curves and levels of subsidy support available 
to the Group through the generation of biomass-fuelled renewable power. It is underpinned by the stable revenues available through the generation 
of CfD-backed electricity and contracted sales from the Customers business. 
The Plan is subject to stress testing, which involves the construction of reasonably foreseeable scenarios, including those aligned to the principal 
risks, which test the robustness of the Plan when key variables are flexed both individually and in unison. Where such a scenario suggests a risk to 
viability, the availability and quantum of mitigating actions is considered.  
The Board considers the most material scenario in the assessment period to be a significant deterioration of commodity market prices, leading to a 
fall in the available price for power and thus a fall in the margins available to the Group from power generation and supply activities. This impact 
would however be partially mitigated through the earnings stability provided by the CfD, the Group’s ability to trade effectively in volatile power 
markets and reductions to discretionary expenditure.  
Based on its review, the Board is satisfied the viability of the Group would be preserved in a range of scenarios, with various mitigating actions 
available, sufficient to manage the risk, including significant deterioration of commodity market prices. 
Availability of adequate funding 
The sources of funding available to the Group are set out in note 13 below. The Board expects these sources, along with stable cash flows 
generated by the Group from its normal operations, to provide adequate levels of funding to support the execution of the Group’s Plan. 
 
During the year the Group drew down and subsequently restructured £550 million of its £725 million acquisition bridge facility that was used to 
partially fund the acquisition of hydro and gas generation assets. In May 2019 an additional $200 million of the existing 2025 6.625% USD loan 
notes was issued, the proceeds of which were used to repay £150 million of the acquisition bridge facility. In July 2019 the refinancing of the 
remaining £400 million was concluded in the form of two new facilities with combined proceeds of £500 million, a £375 million UK infrastructure 
private placement and an environmental, social and governance facility of £125 million. These arrangements both reduced the overall cost of debt 
and extended the maturity profile to 2029 to further strengthen the balance sheet.  
The Board is confident that the Group has access to a range of options to maintain a diverse and well-balanced capital structure.  
Expectations 
The Directors have considered a range of factors in their assessment of viability over the next three years, including the latest Plan, scenario 
analysis, levels of funding, the control environment and the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group. The Directors have also considered 
the availability of actions within their control in the event of plausible negative scenarios occurring. They therefore have a reasonable expectation 
that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period of their assessment. 
 
 
Principal risks and uncertainties 
Identifying, assessing and managing risks across the Group is an integral part of the delivery of our strategy. We manage the commercial and 
operational risks faced by the Group in accordance with policies approved by the Board. 
The Board is responsible for determining risk appetite and ensuring the effectiveness of risk management and internal controls across the Group. 
The Group has a comprehensive system of governance controls to manage key risks. 
Group approach to risk management 
The risk appetite determined by the Board varies depending on the risk, and guides the principles of the Group’s culture, behaviour and the 
intensity of risk management activities in achieving our business objectives. We consider a range of risk categories including environment, health, 
safety, strategic, financial, political, regulatory and operational. The Group has a Risk Management Policy, approved by the Board, which defines 
the Group’s approach to risk management. The key elements of the policy are to: 
• 
Identify risks that have the potential to threaten the achievement of our strategic objectives. We then assess the likelihood of the risk 
occurring and possible impact to the business in the event it should arise. This assessment is based on a risk scoring matrix to ensure 
we take a consistent approach.  
• 
Assign responsibility and define accountabilities for the identification, assessment and management of risk and provide resources to 
enable appropriate measures to be taken. 
• 
Put in place appropriate mitigating controls intended to manage identified risks to an acceptable level. 
• 
escalate and report information on the potential risk and the effectiveness of the mitigations and controls to support management 
decision making. 
• 
Regularly monitor changes within and outside our business, review the Group’s principal risks against such changes to ensure our 
analysis remains accurate and up-to-date and review the effectiveness of mitigation strategies and the application of the risk framework. 
The approach manages, rather than eliminates, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and provides reasonable, not absolute, assurance 
against material misstatement or loss. 
Risk management governance 
The risk management governance structure includes Executive Committee level principal risk owners and risk management committees whose 
responsibilities include: 
• 
Ensuring that risks are identified, assessed and managed effectively within risk appetites and limits 
• 
Including new and emerging risks 
• 
Demonstrating robust governance of risk management by reviewing and challenging risk management across the Group and driving the 
completion of actions to manage risks within risk appetites and limits 
• 
Driving an appropriate risk management culture and an environment that promotes and creates balanced risk-taking behaviour and clear 
accountability 
The risk management committees receive reports from business units and risk owners. The Executive Committee receive reports from the risk 
management committees and principal risk owners and undertake deep dive reviews of the management of principal risks.  
In addition, the Audit Committee reviews the suitability and effectiveness of risk management processes and controls on behalf of the Board. 
Internal control  
The Group has a well-defined internal control system established through policies and procedures, documented levels of authority which support 
decision-making and accountability for day-to-day management across the Group.  
The Board has adopted a schedule of matters which are required to be brought to it for a decision, below which authority is delegated through the 
Executive Committee to a combination of sub-committees and individuals enabling them to make decisions on behalf of the Group and its 
businesses for its day-to-day activities. The internal control system is designed to ensure that the directors and executive maintain effective 
oversight and direction for all material strategic, operational, financial and organisational issues.  
Under authority delegated by the Board, the Audit Committee, implements a programme of internal audits of different aspects of the Group’s 
activities. The programme is developed based on an assessment of the key risks of the Group, the existing assurance and controls in place to 
manage the risks and the core financial control framework. The programme is reviewed quarterly and refreshed to reflect developments within the 
Group as well as changes in wider practices, informed by the experience of internal and external personnel.  
Internal audits are performed either by the in-house team members of the internal audit function or by external parties where their appointment has 
first been considered and approved by the Audit Committee. The findings and recommendations from each internal audit are documented in a 
report for internal distribution and action. A full copy of the report is distributed to the Executive Committee and the Audit Committee. Each report 
includes management responses to the findings and recommendations and details of the actions that management propose to take.  
Based on the reporting from the Executive Committee and the Audit Committee undertaken during 2019 and considered at the meeting of the 
Board held in finalising the annual report and financial statements, the Board determined that it was not aware of any significant deficiency or 
material weakness in the system of internal control.  
 
Principal risks and uncertainties  
Risks are reported to the Board and disclosed in the Annual Report and Accounts under nine principal risk headings. The Board has assessed the 
principal risk categories. These are broadly unchanged from 2018 with two exceptions: Transaction risks, which was included in 2018 to reflect the 
risks associated with the acquisition of thermal and hydro assets. The risk category has been removed as these assets have been integrated 
successfully into our operations during 2019. A new category entitled Climate Change has been created. This reflects the increasing focus on such 
risks, given the nature of our sector and operations, and our work to implement the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD).  
Current Principal Risk categories 
1. Environment, Health and Safety 
2. Political and Regulatory 
3. Strategic 
4. Biomass Acceptability 
5. Plant Operations 
6. Trading and Commodity 
7. Information Systems and Security 
8. People 
9. Climate Change (new) 
 
 
Principal Risk Category 
Key Mitigations 
 
Changes in factors impacting risk in 2019 
Environment, health and safety  
Context 
The health, safety and wellbeing of all our employees, contractors 
and visitors is of paramount importance to us. We believe that a 
safe, compliant and sustainable business model is critical to the 
delivery of our strategy and crucial for sustained long-term 
performance.  
Safety is at the heart of our operational philosophy and we 
continue to work across the Group to maintain high standards and 
a culture of safe working. Compliance with environmental 
legislation and our environmental permits and consents is 
• Maintaining robust management 
systems designed to mitigate risk. 
• Training staff to a high level of 
competence, to appreciate and manage 
environment, health and safety risks. 
• Continuously reporting events and 
prompt implementation of corrective 
actions. 
• Continuously monitoring processes to 
identify trends in performance. 
• Rigorous auditing of compliance against 
= • Good personal safety performance 
for the year with TRIR and LTIR, 
continuing in line with industry 
benchmarks.  
• Thermal and Hydro asset health 
and safety management systems 
integrated.  
• Introduction of a Group-wide 
reporting tool for environment, 
health and safety incidents. 
• Installation of further fire 
essential to ensure the long-term future of the business. 
Risk and impact 
• Our operations involve a range of hazards to personnel and 
the environment, that arise from the processes we perform 
and the equipment which we use. This includes heavy plant 
and machinery at our sites in the US and UK.  
• The biomass that we use to generate electricity is by its nature 
combustible and the production, preparation and 
transportation (whether within our sites or in transit between 
sites) requires careful management to minimise the risk of fire 
or explosion. For example, in the US we produce pellets using 
a combination of high temperature and high-pressure plant 
and in the UK we operate plant which involves very high 
temperatures and pressures for the generation of electricity at 
400KV for transmission onto the National Grid.  
standards, policy and procedures. 
• Engaging with regulators and 
stakeholders to identify improvements to 
our systems and operations. 
• Investigating the underlying reasons for 
events and implementation of any 
necessary changes in the management 
system and culture. 
• Timely identification of future legislation 
and appropriate investment to optimise 
performance. 
• Effective governance framework 
including an executive level Safety, 
Health, Environment and Wellbeing 
Leadership Executive Committee, to 
oversee governance, review and 
challenge the management of safety, 
health, environment and wellbeing risks 
across the Group. 
suppression devices in our 
biomass conveying systems. 
 
 
 
Principal Risk Category 
Key Mitigations 
 
Changes in factors impacting risk in 2019 
Political and regulatory  
Context 
• We remain alert to changes in government policy at UK and 
EU level. The energy sector is subject to detailed legislation 
and regulation that is frequently changing as the economic 
and industrial trends towards decarbonising and decentralising 
become stronger. In addition, the wider regulatory and 
compliance environment applicable to businesses is also 
increasing with growing requirements in transparency and 
accountability. 
Risk and impact 
• Changes to UK policy, regulations or tariffs may increase the 
costs to operate, reduce operational efficiency and affect our 
ability to realise our strategy, which may adversely affect our 
financial and operational performance, results and cash flows. 
Issues include reform to: legal framework following Brexit; data 
privacy regulation; network access and charging 
arrangements; environmental regulation; and consumer 
service and affordability requirements. 
• A more complex and challenging regulatory environment 
increases: the costs to operate, the threat of regulatory 
investigation, the risk of non-compliance, and 
penalties/sanctions. Brexit may create uncertainty and 
additional costs associated with changes in regulatory 
reporting. 
• Biomass represented 77% of our generation in 2019 and, 
longer term, we intend to increase our biomass self-supply to 
5m tonnes per annum. The regulatory environment is evolving 
which could increase costs and mean anticipated returns are 
significantly lower than expectations. 
• The future of carbon pricing in the UK is linked to the UK’s 
withdrawal from the EU and the negotiations on the future 
economic partnership. For the period beyond 2020, the 
Government has set out its preference to create its own 
Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS), linked to the EU ETS. This 
outcome would be preferable, causing minimal disruption to 
the market, compliance regimes and to the prevailing carbon 
price. However, there is a risk that this preference changes or 
that the UK and EU cannot agree a linking negotiation in time. 
This would result in the UK having to transition its carbon 
pricing system to a carbon tax system or other interim 
mechanism. Significant fluctuation in the carbon price, due to 
liquidity issues for example, could occur. 
• Engaging with politicians across the 
political spectrum and Government 
officials, to understand and influence 
perception, and communicate our 
socioeconomic value in supporting the 
UK’s ambition to achieve net zero by 
2050.  
• Working with stakeholders to maintain 
Drax as a thought leader on priority 
policy and regulatory issues. 
• Engaging with regulators and industry 
bodies to influence strategic direction of, 
and ensure compliance with, regulatory 
requirements. 
• Working with Energy UK to identify 
market improvements, enhance 
competition and develop voluntary 
codes of practice. 
• Maintaining regulatory and compliance 
control frameworks to mitigate the risk of 
non-compliance covering: risk 
assessment; policy development; 
adequate process; training; audit; and 
continual improvement. 
 
= • Brexit continues to create 
uncertainty. Weakened sterling and 
difficulties in cross border trade 
could influence fuel costs and/or 
lead to customers going into 
financial distress. Delays at ports 
could affect our supplies of fuel and 
components though the nature of 
our dedicated supply chain 
mitigates this risk.  
• Many ancillary services require 
policy, regulatory and market 
change to ensure generators are 
suitably compensated for these 
services. 
• Ofgem is reviewing the way in 
which network businesses are 
remunerated and user access is 
procured/costs allocated, which will 
impact the cost base of generators 
and retailers. 
• The Government has introduced a 
price cap for domestic power 
retailers; we remain vigilant to the 
risk that this could be extended to 
some SMEs. 
• The Smart meter roll out continues 
and the obligation to install a smart 
meter for every customer by the 
end of 2020 (where reasonable 
steps have been exhausted) 
remains. 
• Further failures of small energy 
suppliers (and resulting cost 
mutualisation across the industry). 
• The Government has confirmed 
that the Carbon Price Support 
(CPS) is set at approximately the 
right level, although the longer-term 
level is dependent on how the UK 
exits the EU and prevailing 
commodity prices. 
 
 
 
Principal Risk Category 
Key Mitigations 
 
Changes in factors impacting risk in 2019 
Strategic 
 
 
 
Context 
The Group’s purpose is to enable a zero carbon lower cost 
energy future, with an ambition to become a carbon negative 
company by 2030. This is underpinned by the three pillars of the 
Group’s strategy: 1) to build a long-term future for biomass; 2)to 
be the leading provider of power system stability;, and 3) to give 
our customers control of their energy – delivering long-term 
growth opportunities, including investment in new and emerging 
technologies for alternative fuels, which we believe have the 
potential to support earnings beyond 2027. 
The Group aims to deliver higher quality, diversified and 
sustainable earnings, whilst also reducing our exposure to 
volatility in the commodity market and supporting the UK’s 
ambition to achieve net zero by 2050. 
Risk and impact 
• The vast majority of our business relies on subsidies for 
generating electricity using renewable sources. In 2019, Drax 
received subsidies amounting to £790m. Presently, subsidies 
are expected to continue until 2027. The date or the scale of 
the subsidies could change which could have a material effect 
on our performance and business prospects. 
• Post-2027 biomass generation is dependent upon the cost of 
generation relative to market prices. Delivering on our 
objectives to increase biomass self-supply to 5m tonnes per 
annum and reduce the cost of generation to £50 per MWh 
depends on the availability of feasible expansion opportunities 
and successfully reducing the current cost of biomass. 
Biomass is accepted by governments as a renewable 
resource; there is a risk that this opinion could change. 
• The energy markets in which we operate are evolving at a 
rapid pace. New entrants and new technologies compete 
throughout power generation, system services and B2B 
energy supply and services markets. Such competitors may 
develop more cost effective and efficient services than those 
which Drax is able to supply. 
• The technologies and materials that we are evaluating 
including BECCS and viable, alternative fuels are new and 
unproven. Any one of the technologies and materials that we 
evaluate could prove technically or commercially unfeasible or 
flawed. We may invest in the wrong technologies which are 
inadequate, the time taken to develop them could be longer 
than expected or the costs may be higher or levels of 
expected return lower than we expect (relative to the 
government support that is required to make the technologies 
feasible) 
• The Capacity Market ensures security of electricity supply by 
providing a payment for reliable sources of capacity. We bid 
for contracts to supply electricity in the Capacity Market 
auctions. Outcomes from the auctions are inherently 
uncertain. The development of new, flexible OCGT and CCGT 
are also dependent on winning contracts with acceptable 
returns. 
• Develop a diversified generation 
capacity with a portfolio of biomass, 
pumped storage, hydro, gas-fired and 
coal generation assets. 
• Development of a plan to expand 
biomass self-supply capability and 
reduce the cost of biomass for 
generation to create an economically 
sustainable biomass generation 
business without subsidy by 2027. 
• Working on reducing project costs to 
increase competitiveness in the 
Capacity Market auction; a disciplined 
approach to the auction means such 
projects will only go forward upon 
obtaining a suitable contract which 
meets our hurdle rate. 
• Implementing a programme of targeted 
investment to: 
• Incubate new products and energy 
services to bring to market. 
• Research, develop and pilot new 
technologies.  
  
In 2019 the Group implemented an evolved 
approach to capital allocation. This provides 
rigour and consistency in assessing the 
technical, financial and strategic justification 
of new projects across the Group; in 
particular for investments in new and 
emerging technologies. 
• Development and delivery of plans to 
implement bio-energy carbon capture 
and storage (BECCS). 
 
= • Acquisition of a portfolio of flexible, 
low carbon hydro and gas 
generation assets from 
ScottishPower provides significant 
diversification of long-term earnings 
and expansion of our renewable 
generation model. 
• UK Capacity Market payments and 
auctions reinstated following ruling 
by the European Court of Justice. 
• Development of a plan to expand 
biomass self-supply capability and 
reduce the cost of biomass for 
generation to create an 
economically sustainable biomass 
generation business without 
subsidy by 2027, including in 2019: 
• LaSalle pellet facility now fully 
operational supporting self-
supply target. 
• Turbine upgrade programme 
commenced at Drax Power 
Station, improving efficiency 
and reducing maintenance 
costs. 
 
 
 
Principal Risk Category 
Key Mitigations 
 
Changes in factors impacting risk in 2019 
Biomass acceptability  
Context 
Sustainability legislation at EU and UK level and in other countries 
from which we operate and source biomass, and public 
understanding of the benefits of the supply chain and technology 
are evolving. Attitudes to the benefits of biomass as a renewable 
source may not align with our strategy and investment case, 
which may impact our plans and mean that actual returns differ 
from those we expected. 
Risk and impact 
• Sustainability policy changes on the sourcing and use of 
biomass in the UK, EU or other countries in which we operate 
or from which we source biomass could be unworkable and 
make it difficult for us to comply with policy requirements and 
claim subsidy in support of economic biomass generation. 
Changes in policy could increase costs, make it difficult to 
source biomass, or reduce the current support for the benefits 
of biomass.  
• Detractors and some environmental non-governmental 
organisations (ENGOs) influence policymakers against 
biomass use resulting in reduced support for the benefits of 
biomass. 
• Increased transparency in how we 
evidence sustainability. 
• Working with academics, think tanks 
and specialist consultants to improve 
understanding and analysis of the 
benefits of biomass. 
• Engaging with key ENGOs to discuss 
issues of contention. 
• Forging closer relationships with 
suppliers on sustainability through the 
supplier relationship programme. 
• Maintaining strong processes to ensure 
compliance with regulation. 
• Increased engagement across all 
European Institutions (Commission, 
Parliament, Council), and relevant UK 
Government departments. 
• Developing and maintaining strong 
relationships with policymakers.  
 
= • BEIS commissioning a major new 
piece of work looking at our supply 
chains and counterfactuals. 
• Implementation of our new forest 
biomass sourcing commitments. 
• Legal case against EU has been 
brought by fern, challenging the 
carbon neutrality of biomass. 
• Established an Independent 
Advisory Board (IAB) of scientists, 
civil society and leaders in the field 
of sustainability to provide impartial 
advice and guidance. 
 
Principal Risk Category 
Key Mitigations 
 
Changes in factors impacting risk in 2019 
Plant operations 
Context 
The reliability of our operating plants is central to our ability to 
create value for the Group. Some of our plants are old, for 
example, Drax Power Station was built approximately fifty years 
ago and our hydro plants nearly one hundred years ago. The 
plants are highly complex and require careful management to 
operate, with many running flexibly to respond to the demands of 
the electricity system. For Drax Power Station specifically, the 
plant was originally constructed to generate electricity from coal, 
and we have converted four of the six units to use biomass, rather 
than the fuel for which they were originally designed. 
Risk and impact 
• As plant ages, the operational reliability and integrity could 
reduce. Single or multi point failures of plant across our 
portfolio, and incidents arising from the handling and 
combustion of biomass, could result in forced outages in our 
generation or pellet production plants. 
• Successful generation using biomass requires stringent quality 
to be maintained throughout the supply chain, which continues 
to evolve and mature. Our suppliers may experience 
operational or financial difficulties which impair their ability to 
sustain continued compliance or result in inadequate 
standards being met. Poor quality could result in additional 
costs (as we may be required to source material from other 
suppliers) or inadequate volume of materials, leading to loss of 
generation which could adversely affect financial performance 
and results. 
• Implementing a comprehensive plant 
investment and maintenance 
programme, that is risk-based and 
reflects the challenges of operating 
complex equipment, some of which is 
old, supported by engineering 
excellence. 
• Ensuring plant is designed to prevent 
and control major hazards.  
• Maintaining robust management 
systems, designed to mitigate risk. 
• Maintaining the stringent safety 
procedures in place for handling 
biomass and dust management. 
• Managing the plant as a portfolio to 
ensure losses are minimised. 
• Undertaking significant research and 
development on the production of wood 
pellets, as well as the handling and 
burning of biomass. 
• Full testing of all biomass supplies prior 
to acceptance, and the use of 
contractual rights to reject out of 
specification cargoes. 
• Sampling and analysis through the 
supply chain, to increase understanding 
of causes of fuel quality issues. 
• Maintaining adequate insurance in place 
to cover losses from plant failure where 
possible. 
= • Completion of largest ever 
maintenance outage on Unit 2 at 
Drax Power Station and installation 
of a new high-pressure turbine unit. 
• Hydro and thermal assets provide 
greater flexibility to the portfolio in 
the event of a plant failure. 
• Major gas turbine outage and 
steam turbine overhaul completed 
at Shoreham. 
• LaSalle rail spur and co-located 
sawmill are fully operational. 
• Baton Rouge rail chambering yard 
commissioned. 
 
 
 
Principal Risk Category 
Key Mitigations 
 
Changes in factors impacting risk in 2019 
Trading and commodity  
Context 
Sales of power and Renewable Obligation Certificates (ROCs) 
represented £2,099m of our revenue in 2019 in our Generation 
business and our Customers business made sales of £2,226m of 
electricity and gas. 
The margins derived from our Power Generation and Customers 
businesses are influenced by the liquidity of the commodity 
markets and our ability to secure desired prices in a volatile 
market. Non-commodity costs are also volatile and inherently 
difficult to hedge. 
The value delivered from ROCs in 2019 was £528m. The value 
which we derive from ROCs may be lower than prior years, or our 
forecast, if demand increases for generation from alternative 
renewable sources at the expense of demand for generation from 
our own assets.  
Risk and impact 
• Liquidity and volatility in trading conditions and unexpected 
changes in commodity prices could result in lower margins 
and a reduction in cash flow in our Generation business. 
• The Generation business may fail to secure future system 
support services contracts which are a source of revenue 
diversity for the Group. 
• Delivery of commercial value from the flexibility of our portfolio 
and leveraging a complicated supply chain with uncertain 
running regimes requires effective execution of our trading 
strategy and opportunities to trade being available in a liquid 
market. 
• The value of ROCs generated may be lower than forecast if 
the recycle value outturns are below our projections due to 
higher than anticipated renewable generation. 
• Some new entrants to the electricity supply market have failed. 
Further supplier failures could lead to more supplier 
mutualisation processes (whereby their costs and 
commitments are shared among other suppliers) being 
invoked, notably for ROCs resulting in increased costs. 
• Falling power prices, rising coal/carbon prices or changes to 
regulation could mean that we do not use all our stocks of 
coal. 
• Ensuring high levels of forward power 
sales for 2020/21 and the Contract for 
Difference (CfD) for one biomass 
generation unit could reduce our 
exposure to volatility. 
• Additional value is provided through the 
increased flexibility and optimisation 
capabilities provided by the Thermal and 
Hydro assets. 
• Hedging energy supply commodity price 
exposures when fixed price sales are 
executed with third parties. 
• Operating three biomass units under a 
single ROC cap for Drax Power Station 
provides increased opportunities for 
greater flexibility of generation.  
• Purchasing wood pellets under long-
term contracts with fixed pricing. 
• Hedging fluctuations in ROC generation 
from wind farms through weather 
derivatives. 
• Significant hedging of forward foreign 
exchange. 
• The burn profile of the coal units has 
been adjusted to optimise coal stocks.  
 
= • Sterling exchange rates against the 
Euro and US Dollar remain weak. 
• Power prices are lower with low 
market liquidity and increased 
volatility in short-term prices. 
• Generation running regimes 
optimised with managed positions 
and scenario planning.  
• The Thermal plants have brought a 
natural hedge to falling gas prices. 
• Prices for wood pellets decreased. 
• Biomass production shortages and 
supply constraints caused primarily 
by adverse weather in the US in 
early 2019.  
 
 
Principal Risk Category 
Key Mitigations 
 
Changes in factors impacting risk in 2019 
Information systems and security  
Context 
Our IT systems and data are essential to supporting the delivery 
of the day-to-day business operations of the Group and make 
sure our financial, legal, regulatory and compliance obligations 
are met. Our systems must also evolve in order to contribute to 
the delivery of our strategy. The systems need to be fit for 
purpose and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of the 
systems and data needs to be ensured.  
Risk and impact 
• Absence of key IT systems transformation affecting our ability 
to deliver our strategy. 
• Reduced performance or reduced availability of IT systems, 
data and facilities affecting our operations adversely. For 
example interrupting supply of electricity or impeding the 
accurate recording of electricity supplied to and used by our 
customers. 
• Security compromise of our systems and data including 
personal data; causing operational and financial impact and 
regulatory non-compliance. 
• Maintaining business continuity, disaster 
recovery and crisis management plans.  
• Maintaining cyber security measures, 
including a protect, detect, respond and 
recover strategy. 
• Implementing a Group IT Strategy and 
identifying key projects to deliver Group-
wide services, improving security, 
resilience and performance. The new IT 
Board, a sub-committee of the 
Executive Committee, will provide 
oversight and governance.  
 
= • The enforcement of key 
compliance regulations such as the 
NIS Directive have increased the 
potential regulatory and financial 
impact.  
• Thermal and Hydro asset systems 
have been integrated where 
applicable.  
• The IT Operating model has been 
redesigned and is being embedded 
to better support strategic 
objectives of the Group and 
improve efficiency of technology 
processes.  
• Programme of ongoing 
improvement to security, 
monitoring of key IT controls and IT 
and Security Risk management. 
 
 
 
 
Principal Risk Category 
Key Mitigations 
 
Changes in factors impacting risk in 2019 
People  
Context 
We need to ensure we have the right people in place with the 
leadership, management, specialist skills and engagement to help 
the Group to compete, innovate and grow. 
Risk and impact 
• Our performance and the delivery of our strategy is dependent 
upon having high-quality, suitably experienced leaders and 
engaged and talented colleagues at all levels of the 
organisation. 
• Whilst we continue to invest in our people, including 
supporting them in the development of their capabilities, we 
may be unable to recruit and retain people with the necessary 
skills and experience which could in turn affect our ability to 
execute our strategy. Examples include our ability to recruit 
people supporting work on new technologies such as BECCS 
and alternative fuels. 
• The Group is undertaking significant change associated with 
implementing our strategy and improving operational 
effectiveness. Examples include acquisition of hydro and gas 
generation assets, proposed expansion through investment in 
our US operations and ongoing changes to our operations 
where we generate electricity as we transition away from fossil 
fuels. 
• Conducting a comprehensive and 
systematic assessment of our talent 
bench strength and succession plan.  
• Maintaining consistent Group-wide 
performance management, potential 
assessment and career development 
frameworks. 
• Workforce engagement forums provide 
a formal way for colleagues and 
management to communicate, gain 
feedback and exchange information and 
views on any business related issue 
• Conducting regular colleague surveys to 
monitor engagement levels and 
alignment of people with Group values. 
• Investing in development for all. 
• Ensuring regular colleague 
communications.  
• Maintaining reward packages that aid 
recruitment and retention. 
= • We reviewed our HR strategy, 
including “Creating a great place to 
work”, and reshaped our priorities 
putting together a comprehensive 
two-year HR plan centred around: 
• valuing people and focusing on 
talent; 
• raising business performance 
and building capability through 
our people; 
• developing and building a 
sustainably high performing 
organisation; and 
• supporting the delivery of Drax 
plans, purpose and operational 
excellence as part of BAU. 
• Introduction of new workforce 
engagement forums 
• Making the organisational and 
people changes to align with Fit for 
the Future thinking, driving 
consistency, efficiencies, 
improvements in decision making 
and reduction in cost. 
 
Principal Risk Category 
Key Mitigations 
 
Changes in factors impacting risk in 2019 
Climate Change 
Context 
According to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, 
global warming is likely to reach 1.5°C as early as 2030, causing 
changes in the climate system with associated impacts. It is 
important we assess the impact of climate change on our 
business and our preparedness to manage risks related to both 
the physical impacts of climate change and the transition to a low 
carbon economy.  
 
Risk and impact 
• Physical impacts of climate change to our operations, for 
example increased incidence of extreme weather events. In 
early 2019 production at our US pellet production business 
was restricted following weather-related events in the southern 
states of the US. 
• Climate change policy, innovation and technology do not 
develop as expected impacting delivery of net zero ambition 
and our strategy. 
• Reduced investor confidence, increased activity by protestors 
and challenges with staff recruitment and retention. 
• Working with Energy UK on a 
framework to better manage the 
physical impacts of climate change on 
thermal generating facilities. 
• Funding work at Strathclyde University 
to understand the potential changes in 
long-term weather patterns at Cruachan 
Dam. Results show that current 
predicted extremes are manageable. 
• Physical impacts of climate change on 
new installations are covered under 
planning laws. 
• Business strategy robust to future 
climate policy.  
• Investor confidence increased and 
reputational impacts mitigated by 
establishment of a net zero ambition, 
demonstrating a business strategy 
consistent with UK government climate 
change policy. 
• Strong innovation team tracking 
technology advances. 
 
This risk was not included in the previous 
annual report 
 
Directors’ responsibilities statement 
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations. 
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the directors are required to prepare the 
Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union and Article 
4 of the IAS Regulation and have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law), set out in FRS 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework”. 
Under company law the directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of 
the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period. 
In preparing the Parent Company financial statements, the directors are required to: 
• 
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; 
• 
make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent; 
• 
state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in 
the financial statements; and 
• 
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in 
business. 
In preparing the Group financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that directors: 
• 
properly select and apply accounting policies; 
• 
present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable 
information; 
• 
provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the 
impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entity’s financial position and financial performance; and 
• 
make an assessment of the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. 
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions and 
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements 
comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable 
steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. 
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s website. 
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other 
jurisdictions. 
Responsibility statement 
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: 
• 
the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole; 
• 
the Strategic report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they 
face; and 
• 
the annual report and financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, business model and strategy. 
This responsibility statement was approved by the Board of directors on 26 February 2020 and is signed on its behalf by: 
Will Gardiner 
Group CEO 
 
 
Financial statements 
Basis of Preparation and General Information 
The consolidated financial information for Drax Group plc (the Company) and its subsidiaries (together, the Group) set out in this preliminary 
announcement has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2019 (the 
financial statements).  
This preliminary announcement does not constitute the full financial statements prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRS). The financial statements were approved by the Board of directors on 26 February 2020. Statutory accounts for 2018 have been 
delivered to the Registrar of Companies and those for 2019 will be delivered in due course.  
The report of the auditors on the financial statements was unqualified, did not draw attention to any matters by way of emphasis without qualifying 
their report, and did not contain a statement under Section 498 (2) or (3) of the Companies Act 2006 or equivalent preceding legislation.  
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union and therefore the consolidated financial 
statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IFRS Regulations and the Companies Act 2006.  
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis and on the historical cost basis, except for certain financial assets and 
liabilities that have been measured at fair value.  
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the financial statements are set out in the 2018 Annual report and accounts, except 
for new standards applicable from 1 January 2019 which are described in note 17 of this preliminary announcement. These policies have been 
applied consistently to both years presented, except where newly applicable standards do not require retrospective restatement, or the impact of 
doing so is not material, as described in note 17. 
The financial information provided in respect of 2018 has been restated for the following two matters: 
• The balance sheet for 2018 has been restated to reflect updated values for assets and liabilities acquired in relation to the acquisition of Drax 
Generation Enterprise Limited (formerly ScottishPower Generation Limited – see note 16) following conclusion of the completion statement process 
and finalisation of acquisition fair values during 2019. The new portfolio of pumped storage, hydro and gas-fired generation assets are hereafter 
referred to as “the new generation assets.” 
• The balance sheet for 2018 has also been restated to correct a historical error in the application of foreign exchange rates to the translation of 
fixed asset balances in the Group’s overseas subsidiaries. Correction of this error resulted in a £55.5 million increase in fixed asset carrying values 
and the balance of the translation reserve at 31 December 2018, with no impact on the Consolidated income statement or the Consolidated cash 
flow statement. See note 17 for further details. As this adjustment impacts the opening balance sheet for 2018, a restated balance sheet for 2017 
has also been provided, as required by IAS 1. 
Post Balance Sheet Event 
On 26 February 2020, following a comprehensive review of operations and discussions with National Grid, Ofgem and the UK Government, the 
Board determined to end commercial coal generation at Drax Power Station in 2021 – ahead of the UK’s 2025 deadline. 
The Group will shortly commence a consultation process with employees and trade unions with a view to ending coal operations in September 
2022. Under these proposals, commercial generation from coal will end in March 2021 but the two coal units will remain available to meet Capacity 
Market obligations until September 2022. 
The Group currently anticipates incurring one-off closure costs of between £25 and £35 million in the period until closure and initially expect to 
provide in full for these costs during 2020, where appropriate.   
In assessing the financial impact, we will also consider the useful lives, residual values and potential impairment of certain assets at Drax Power 
Station. The timing for completing this impairment review is uncertain as these assets remain an integral part of the site and a detailed closure plan 
needs to be finalised.  
The carrying amount of affected assets was approximately £240 million at 31 December 2019, comprising coal-specific assets with useful lives up 
to 2025 and other assets with useful lives up to 2039. In addition, the Group held coal inventory at 31 December 2019 with a carrying amount of 
£103 million, which the Group expects to recover in full over the period to closure. A further update on these items will be provided in the Group’s 
interim financial statements for the first half of 2020. 
The Group expects to treat all closure costs and any asset obsolescence charges as exceptional items in the Group’s financial statements. As a 
result. the Group’s expectations for 2020 EBITDA are materially unchanged. 
As part of the proposed coal closure programme the Group is implementing a broader review of operations at Drax Power Station. This review 
aims to support a safe, efficient and lower cost operating model which, alongside a reduction in biomass cost, positions Drax for long-term biomass 
generation following the end of the current renewable support mechanisms in March 2027. 
While previously being an integral part of the Drax Power Station site and offering flexibility to the Group’s trading and operational performance, the 
long-term economics of coal generation remain challenging and in 2019 represented only three percent of the Group’s electricity production. In 
January 2020, Drax did not take a Capacity Market agreement for the period beyond September 2022 given the low clearing price. 
 
 
 
Consolidated income statement 
 
 
Year ended 31 December 2019 
Year ended 31 December 2018 
 
Notes 
Adjusted  
Results(1)  
£m 
Exceptional  
items and  
certain  
remeasure- 
ments  
£m 
Total  
Results  
£m 
Adjusted  
Results(1)  
£m 
Exceptional  
items and  
certain  
remeasure- 
ments  
£m 
Total  
Results  
£m 
Revenue 
2 
4,702.9 
10.5 
4,713.4 
4,237.3 
(8.3) 
4,229.0 
Cost of sales 
 
(3,835.8) 
(143.3) 
(3,979.1) 
(3,636.3) 
46.7 
(3,589.6) 
Gross profit 
 
867.1 
(132.8) 
734.3 
601.0 
38.4 
639.4 
Operating and administrative expenses 
3 
(439.3) 
– 
(439.3) 
(320.0) 
– 
(320.0) 
Impairment losses on financial assets 
 
(18.0) 
– 
(18.0) 
(31.4) 
– 
(31.4) 
Adjusted EBITDA(2) 
 
409.8  
 
249.6  
 
Depreciation 
 
(165.9) 
– 
(165.9) 
(129.2) 
– 
(129.2) 
Amortisation 
 
(42.0) 
– 
(42.0) 
(44.6) 
– 
(44.6) 
Asset obsolescence charges 
7 
– 
– 
– 
– 
(26.8) 
(26.8) 
Losses on disposals 
 
(1.2) 
– 
(1.2) 
(3.9) 
– 
(3.9) 
Other gains/(losses) 
 
3.1 
– 
3.1 
4.1 
– 
4.1 
Acquisition and restructuring costs(3) 
7 
– 
(9.0) 
(9.0) 
– 
(27.7) 
(27.7) 
Operating profit/(loss) 
 
203.8 
(141.8) 
62.0 
76.0 
(16.1) 
59.9 
Foreign exchange (losses)/gains 
5 
(1.6) 
2.0 
0.4 
0.3 
– 
0.3 
Interest payable and similar charges(4) 
5 
(61.3) 
(5.2) 
(66.5) 
(40.4) 
(7.2) 
(47.6) 
Interest receivable 
5 
1.3 
– 
1.3 
1.2 
– 
1.2 
Profit/(loss) before tax 
 
142.2 
(145.0) 
(2.8) 
37.1 
(23.3) 
13.8 
Tax: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
– Before effect of changes in tax rate 
6 
(22.3) 
27.4 
5.1 
0.2 
1.6 
1.8 
– Prior year patent box credit 
6 
– 
– 
– 
4.8 
– 
4.8 
– Effect of changes in tax rate 
6 
(1.8) 
– 
(1.8) 
(0.2) 
– 
(0.2) 
Total tax (charge)/credit 
 
(24.1) 
27.4 
3.3 
4.8 
1.6 
6.4 
Profit/(loss) for the year attributable to 
equity holders 
 
118.1 
(117.6) 
0.5 
41.9 
(21.7) 
20.2 
 
Earnings/(loss) per share 
 
Pence  
Pence 
Pence  
Pence 
– Basic 
8 
29.9  
0.1 
10.4  
5.0 
– Diluted 
8 
29.7  
0.1 
10.3  
4.9 
 
All results relate to continuing operations. 
Notes: 
(1) Adjusted Results are stated after adjusting for exceptional items (including acquisition and restructuring costs, asset obsolescence charges and debt restructuring costs), and certain remeasurements. 
See note 7 for further details. 
(2) Adjusted EBITDA is defined as: earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation, excluding the impact of exceptional items and certain remeasurements. 
(3) Acquisition and restructuring costs include costs associated with the acquisition and on-boarding (2018) and integration (2019) of Drax Generation Enterprise Limited (formerly ScottishPower Generation 
Limited). 
(4) Interest payable and other similar charges includes the cost of debt restructure which comprises one-off costs associated with the refinancing of the Group’s debt. 
 
 
 
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 
 
 
Years ended 31 December 
 
Notes 
2019  
£m 
2018  
£m 
(restated)* 
Profit for the year 
 
0.5 
20.2 
Items that will not be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss: 
 
 
 
Actuarial (losses)/gains on defined benefit pension scheme 
 
(21.5) 
15.9 
Deferred tax on actuarial gains on defined benefit pension scheme 
6 
4.3 
(3.0) 
(Loss)/gain on equity investments 
 
(0.1) 
0.2 
Net fair value gains on cost of hedging  
 
56.3 
24.8 
Deferred tax on cost of hedging 
6 
(9.7) 
(4.7) 
Net fair value (losses)/gains on cash flow hedges 
 
(112.8) 
164.3 
Deferred tax on cash flow hedges 
6 
25.0 
(31.2) 
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss: 
 
 
 
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 
15 
(11.2) 
24.9 
Net fair value gains on cash flow hedges 
 
91.1 
21.4 
Deferred tax on cash flow hedges  
6 
(19.9) 
(4.2) 
Other comprehensive income/(expense) 
 
1.5 
208.4 
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to equity holders 
 
2.0 
228.6 
* Results for 2018 have been restated to reflect a historical correction of exchange differences arising on translation of foreign operations. 
Consolidated balance sheet 
 
 
As at 31 December 
 
 
Notes 
 2019  
£m 
Restated(1) 
2018  
£m 
Restated(2) 
2017  
£m 
Assets 
 
 
 
 
Non-current assets 
 
 
 
 
Goodwill 
 
248.2 
248.2 
169.9 
Intangible assets 
 
206.9 
228.8 
232.0 
Property, plant and equipment 
 
2,327.4 
2,347.6 
1,699.7 
Right-of-use assets  
 
31.4 
– 
– 
Other fixed asset investments 
 
3.0 
2.4 
1.3 
Retirement benefit surplus 
 
7.0 
21.6 
– 
Deferred tax assets 
6 
45.3 
31.8 
22.7 
Derivative financial instruments 
 
152.3 
295.2 
190.7 
 
 
3,021.5 
3,175.6 
2,316.3 
Current assets 
 
 
 
 
Inventories 
 
292.0 
222.5 
272.1 
ROC assets 
 
162.7 
216.7 
145.5 
Trade and other receivables and contract-related assets 
 
608.8 
474.2 
417.5 
Derivative financial instruments 
 
193.7 
215.4 
175.5 
Current tax assets 
 
– 
– 
6.2 
Cash and cash equivalents 
12 
404.1 
289.0 
222.3 
 
 
1,661.3 
1,417.8 
1,239.1 
Liabilities 
 
 
 
 
Current liabilities 
 
 
 
 
Trade and other payables and contract-related liabilities 
 
(1,039.2) 
(940.6) 
(732.4) 
Lease liabilities  
 
(6.3) 
– 
– 
Amounts payable in respect of acquisitions 
16 
– 
(691.7) 
(4.1) 
Current tax liabilities 
6 
(37.8) 
(8.4) 
– 
Borrowings 
13 
– 
(0.1) 
(18.6) 
 
 
As at 31 December 
 
 
Notes 
 2019  
£m 
Restated(1) 
2018  
£m 
Restated(2) 
2017  
£m 
Derivative financial instruments 
 
(216.5) 
(89.4) 
(109.6) 
 
 
(1,299.8) 
(1,730.2) 
(864.7) 
Net current assets/(liabilities) 
 
361.5 
(312.4) 
374.4 
Non-current liabilities 
 
 
 
 
Borrowings 
13 
(1,245.2) 
(608.0) 
(571.1) 
Lease liabilities 
 
(26.2) 
– 
– 
Derivative financial instruments 
 
(72.9) 
(62.0) 
(94.2) 
Provisions 
 
(54.2) 
(50.8) 
(36.3) 
Deferred tax liabilities 
6 
(268.9) 
(315.9) 
(230.0) 
Retirement benefit obligations 
 
– 
– 
(1.2) 
 
 
(1,667.4) 
(1,036.7) 
(932.8) 
Net assets 
 
1,715.6 
1,826.5 
1,757.9 
Shareholders’ equity 
 
 
 
 
Issued equity 
15 
47.4 
47.0 
47.0 
Share premium 
15 
429.6 
424.7 
424.3 
Treasury shares 
15 
(50.4) 
(47.1) 
– 
Hedge reserve 
 
121.5 
199.9 
126.1 
Cost of hedging reserve 
 
40.8 
(8.9) 
(40.7) 
Other reserves 
15 
757.0 
768.2 
743.3 
Retained profits 
10 
369.7 
442.7 
457.9 
Total shareholders’ equity 
 
1,715.6 
1,826.5 
1,757.9 
 
(1) Results for 2018 have been restated to reflect the finalisation of the measurement period adjustments in relation to the new generation assets in 2018 and a historical correction of exchange differences 
arising on translation of foreign operations. 
(2) The adjustment to reflect the historical correction of exchange differences arising on translation of foreign operations impacts the opening balance sheet for 2018. As such a restated balance sheet 
reflecting the impact of this adjustment at 31 December 2017 has been presented, as required by IAS 1. 
The consolidated financial statements of Drax Group plc, registered number 5562053, were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of 
directors on 26 February 2020. 
Signed on behalf of the Board of directors:  
Andy Skelton 
Chief Financial Officer 
 
 
 
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 
 
Issued  
equity  
£m 
Share  
premium  
£m 
Treasury  
shares 
 £m 
Hedge  
reserve  
£m 
Cost of  
hedging  
£m 
Other  
Reserves  
(restated)(1)  
£m 
Retained  
profits  
£m 
Total  
£m 
At 1 January 2018 – as reported 
47.0 
424.3 
– 
126.1 
(40.7) 
705.5 
457.9 
1,720.1 
Restatement(1) 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
37.8 
– 
37.8 
At 1 January 2018 – restated 
47.0 
424.3 
– 
126.1 
(40.7) 
743.3 
457.9 
1,757.9 
Profit for the year 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
20.2 
20.2 
Other comprehensive income 
– 
– 
– 
150.3 
20.1 
24.9 
13.1 
208.4 
Total comprehensive income for the year 
– 
– 
– 
150.3 
20.1 
24.9 
33.3 
228.6 
Equity dividends paid (note 9) 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
(52.5) 
(52.5) 
Issue of share capital (note 15) 
– 
0.4 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
0.4 
Total transactions with owners 
– 
0.4 
– 
– 
– 
– 
(52.5) 
(52.1) 
Movements on cash flow hedges released 
directly from equity 
– 
– 
– 
(94.2) 
– 
– 
– 
(94.2) 
Deferred tax on cash flow hedges released 
directly from equity 
– 
– 
– 
17.7 
– 
– 
– 
17.7 
Movements on cost of hedging released 
directly from equity 
– 
– 
– 
– 
14.5 
– 
– 
14.5 
Deferred tax on cost of hedging released 
directly from equity 
– 
– 
– 
– 
(2.8) 
– 
– 
(2.8) 
Repurchase of shares (note 15)(2) 
– 
– 
(47.1)  
– 
– 
– 
– 
(47.1) 
Movement in equity associated with share-
based payments  
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
4.0 
4.0 
At 31 December 2018 restated 
47.0 
424.7 
(47.1) 
199.9 
(8.9) 
768.2 
442.7 
1,826.5 
Profit for the year 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
0.5 
0.5 
Other comprehensive (expense)/income 
– 
– 
– 
(16.6) 
46.6 
(11.2) 
(17.3) 
1.5 
Total comprehensive (expense)/income for 
the year 
– 
– 
– 
(16.6) 
46.6 
(11.2) 
(16.8) 
2.0 
Equity dividends paid (note 9) 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
(58.9) 
(58.9) 
Issue of share capital (note 15) 
0.4 
4.9 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
5.3 
Total transactions with owners 
0.4 
4.9 
– 
–  
– 
– 
(58.9) 
(53.6) 
Movements on cash flow hedges released 
directly from equity 
– 
– 
– 
(78.9) 
– 
– 
– 
(78.9) 
Deferred tax on cash flow hedges released 
directly from equity 
– 
– 
– 
17.1 
– 
– 
– 
17.1 
Movements on cost of hedging released 
directly from equity 
– 
– 
– 
– 
3.8 
– 
– 
3.8 
Deferred tax on cost of hedging released 
directly from equity 
– 
–  
– 
(0.7) 
– 
– 
(0.7) 
Repurchase of shares (note 15)(2) 
– 
– 
(3.3) 
– 
– 
– 
– 
(3.3) 
Movement in equity associated with share-
based payments  
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
2.7 
2.7 
At 31 December 2019 
47.4 
429.6 
(50.4) 
121.5 
40.8 
757.0 
369.7 
1,715.6 
(1) Other reserves for 2018 have been restated to reflect a historical correction of exchange differences arising on translation of foreign operations. 
(2) Repurchase of shares reflects the cost of acquiring ordinary shares as part of the share buy-back programme announced on 20 April 2018. At 31 December 2019 these shares have not been cancelled 
and are recognised as treasury shares. 
 
 
 
Consolidated cash flow statement 
 
 
Years ended 31 December 
 
Notes 
2019  
£m 
2018  
£m 
Cash generated from operations 
14 
471.2 
336.4 
Income taxes paid 
 
(9.6) 
(1.0) 
Other gains/(losses) 
 
– 
0.4 
Interest paid 
 
(50.3) 
(25.9) 
Interest received 
 
2.1 
1.2 
Net cash from operating activities 
 
413.4 
311.1 
Cash flows from investing activities 
 
 
 
Purchases of property, plant and equipment 
 
(142.3) 
(103.8) 
Purchases of software assets 
 
(29.1) 
(28.8) 
Other investments 
 
– 
(0.9) 
Acquisition of subsidiaries 
 
(691.7) 
– 
Net cash used in investing activities 
 
(863.1) 
(133.5) 
Cash flows from financing activities 
 
 
 
Equity dividends paid 
9 
(58.9) 
(52.5) 
Proceeds from issue of share capital 
 
5.3 
0.4 
Purchase of own shares 
 
(3.3) 
(47.1) 
Repayment of borrowings 
 
(550.0) 
(218.5) 
New borrowings drawn down 
 
1,202.8 
213.3 
Repayment of lease liabilities  
 
(7.4) 
– 
Other financing costs paid 
 
(16.9) 
(7.6) 
Net cash generated from/(absorbed by) financing activities 
 
571.6 
(112.0) 
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 
 
121.9 
65.6 
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 
 
289.0 
222.3 
Effect of changes in foreign exchange rates 
 
(6.8) 
1.1 
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 
12 
404.1 
289.0 
 
The consideration of £686.9 million due in respect of the Acquired Generation Business was settled on 2 January 2019. During the first half of 
2019, the completion statement process in respect of the acquisition has been concluded and the Group made a further payment in accordance 
with the terms of the acquisition of £4.8 million which was settled on 14 May 2019.  
There were no material non-cash transactions in either the current or previous year. 
The Group recorded a net loss of £117.6 million (2018: net loss £21.7 million) arising on exceptional items and certain remeasurements in the 
Consolidated income statement in 2019. Acquisition and restructuring costs of £9.0 million (2018: £27.7 million) are included in cash generated 
from operations (see note 14) and cash paid in respect of debt restructuring of £5.2 million (2018: £2.0 million) in cash used in financing activities. 
All other exceptional items and remeasurements are non-cash and adjusted in the reconciliation shown in note 14. 
 
 
1 Segmental reporting 
The Group is organised into three businesses, with a dedicated management team for each, and a central corporate office providing certain 
specialist and shared functions. The Group’s businesses, which each represent a reportable operating segment for the purpose of segmental 
reporting, are: 
• 
Generation: power generation activities in the UK; 
• 
Customers: supply of electricity and gas to business customers in the UK; and 
• 
Pellet Production: production of sustainable compressed wood pellets at our processing facilities in the US. 
The B2B Energy Supply segment disclosed in 2018 has been renamed Customers, to align more closely with the Group’s strategy. Generation 
includes the financial results of the new generation assets acquired on 31 December 2018 from ScottishPower. Information reported to the Board 
for the purposes of assessing performance and making investment decisions is based on these three segments. The measure of profit or loss for 
each reportable segment presented to the Board on a regular basis is Adjusted EBITDA. 
Operating costs are allocated to segments to the extent they are directly attributable to the activities of that segment. Corporate office costs are 
included within central costs. 
Segment revenues and results 
The following is an analysis of the Group’s performance by reportable operating segment for the year ended 31 December 2019. The Board 
monitors the Adjusted Results for the Group by reportable operating segment as presented in the tables below: 
 
Year ended 31 December 2019 
 
Generation  
£m 
Customers  
£m 
Pellet  
Production  
£m 
Intra-group  
eliminations  
£m 
Adjusted  
Results  
£m 
Exceptional  
items  
and certain  
remeasurements  
£m 
Total  
Results  
£m 
Revenue 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
External sales 
2,433.8 
2,269.1 
– 
– 
4,702.9 
10.5 
4,713.4 
Inter-segment sales 
1,512.7 
– 
229.4 
(1,742.1) 
– 
– 
– 
Total revenue 
3,946.5 
2,269.1 
229.4 
(1,742.1) 
4,702.9 
10.5 
4,713.4 
Segment gross profit 
649.5 
134.1 
84.1 
(0.6) 
867.1 
(132.8) 
734.3 
Segment Adjusted EBITDA 
407.5 
17.4 
31.5 
(0.6) 
455.8  
 
Central costs 
 
 
 
 
(46.0) 
 
 
Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA 
 
 
 
 
409.8  
 
Acquisition and restructuring costs 
 
 
 
 
– 
(9.0) 
(9.0) 
Depreciation and amortisation 
 
 
 
 
(207.9) 
– 
(207.9) 
Losses on disposals 
 
 
 
 
(1.2) 
– 
(1.2) 
Other gains 
 
 
 
 
3.1 
– 
3.1 
Operating profit 
 
 
 
 
203.8 
(141.8) 
62.0 
Net finance costs 
 
 
 
 
(60.0) 
(5.2) 
(65.2) 
Foreign exchange (losses)/gains 
 
 
 
 
(1.6) 
2.0 
0.4 
Profit/(loss) before tax 
 
 
 
 
142.2 
(145.0) 
(2.8) 
 
 
 
 
The following is an analysis of the Group’s performance by reportable operating segment for the year ended 31 December 2018: 
 
Year ended 31 December 2018 
 
Generation  
£m 
Customers  
£m 
Pellet  
Production  
£m 
Intra-group  
eliminations  
£m 
Adjusted  
Results  
£m 
Exceptional  
items  
and certain  
remeasurements  
£m 
Total  
Results  
£m 
Revenue 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
External sales 
1,994.9 
2,242.4 
– 
– 
4,237.3 
(8.3) 
4,229.0 
Inter-segment sales 
1,336.7 
– 
213.7 
(1,550.4) 
– 
– 
– 
Total revenue 
3,331.6 
2,242.4 
213.7 
(1,550.4) 
4,237.3 
(8.3) 
4,229.0 
Segment gross profit 
396.0 
143.4 
65.1 
(3.5) 
601.0 
38.4 
639.4 
Segment Adjusted EBITDA 
232.4 
28.2 
20.8 
(3.5) 
277.9  
 
Central costs 
 
 
 
 
(28.3)  
 
Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA 
 
 
 
 
249.6  
 
Acquisition and restructuring costs 
 
 
 
 
– 
(27.7) 
(27.7) 
Depreciation and amortisation 
 
 
 
 
(173.8) 
(26.8) 
(200.6) 
Losses on disposals 
 
 
 
 
(3.9) 
– 
(3.9) 
Other gains 
 
 
 
 
4.1 
– 
4.1 
Operating profit/(loss) 
 
 
 
 
76.0 
(16.1) 
59.9 
Net finance costs 
 
 
 
 
(39.2) 
(7.2) 
(46.4) 
Foreign exchange gains 
 
 
 
 
0.3 
– 
0.3 
Profit/(loss) before tax 
 
 
 
 
37.1 
(23.3) 
13.8 
 
The accounting policies applied for the purpose of measuring the segments’ profits or losses, assets and liabilities are the same as those used in 
measuring the corresponding amounts in the Group’s financial statements. The external revenues and results of all the reporting segments are 
subject to seasonality, with higher dispatch and prices in the winter months compared to summer months. 
Capital expenditure by segment 
Assets and working capital are monitored on a consolidated basis; however, spend on capital projects is monitored by operating segment. 
 
Additions to  
intangible  
assets  
2019  
£m 
Additions to  
property,  
plant and  
equipment  
2019  
£m 
Additions to  
intangible  
assets  
2018  
£m 
Additions to  
property,  
plant and  
equipment  
2018  
£m 
Generation 
0.8 
129.9 
– 
86.5 
Customers  
18.9 
0.6 
28.3 
2.2 
Pellet Production 
0.3 
17.9 
0.3 
20.2 
Corporate unallocated 
0.8 
2.9 
0.3 
4.7 
Total 
20.8 
151.3 
28.9 
113.6 
 
Additional assets with a fair value of £689.8 million were acquired on 31 December 2018 as part of the business combination described in note 16. 
Total cash outflows in relation to capital expenditure during the year were £171.4 million (2018: £132.6 million). See the Group Financial Review, 
above, for further details about the key capital investments in the year. 
Intra-group trading 
Intra-group transactions are carried out at management’s best estimate of arm’s-length, commercial terms that, where possible, equate to market 
prices at the time of the transaction. During 2019, the Pellet Production segment sold wood pellets with a total value of £229.4 million (2018: £213.7 
million) to the Generation segment and the Generation segment sold electricity, gas and ROCs with a total value of £1,512.7 million (2018: 
£1,336.7 million) to the Customers segment. 
The impact of all intra-group transactions, including any unrealised profit arising, is eliminated on consolidation. 
Major customers 
Total consolidated revenue for the year ended 31 December 2019 includes £575.7 million from one individual customer (2018: £555.8 million from 
one individual customer) that represented 10% or more of total revenue for the year. These revenues arose in the Generation segment. 
2 Revenue 
Accounting policy 
Revenue represents amounts receivable for goods or services provided to customers in the normal course of business, net of trade discounts, VAT 
and other sales-related taxes and excluding transactions between Group companies. Revenue is presented gross in the income statement as the 
Group controls the specified good or service prior to the transfer to the customer. 
Revenues from the sale of electricity by the Group’s Generation business are measured based upon metered output delivered at rates specified 
under contract terms or prevailing market rates as applicable. The performance obligations for these contracts are satisfied over time and control is 
deemed to have passed to the customer at the point that the electricity has been supplied. The output method is used to recognise revenue, this 
method recognises revenue based on the value transferred to the customer. This is measured based on energy supplied to the customer with the 
amount billed based on the units of electricity supplied. 
Three biomass-fuelled generating units at Drax Power Station and certain generators across the Hydro-electric plants earn Renewable Obligation 
Certificates (ROCs) under the UK Government’s Renewables Obligation (RO) regime. The financial benefit of a ROC is recognised in the income 
statement at the point the relevant renewable biomass fuel is burnt and power dispatched as a reduction in the cost of the biomass fuel. For Hydro 
assets this is at the point that the renewable energy is generated. A corresponding asset is recognised on the balance sheet. The performance 
obligation is satisfied at a point in time when the legal title to the ROC is transferred to the third party. This is when revenue from the sale is 
recognised. 
The Group recognises the income or costs arising from the Contract for Difference (CfD) (see below) in the income statement as a component of 
revenue at the point the Group meets its performance obligation under the CfD contract. This is considered to be the point at which the relevant 
generation is delivered and the payment becomes contractually due. 
Revenue from the sale of electricity and gas directly to business customers through the Customers business is recognised on the supply of 
electricity or gas when a contract exists, supply has taken place, a quantifiable price has been established or can be determined and the 
receivables are expected to be recovered at the point of sale. Energy supplied is measured based upon metered consumption and contractual 
rates; however, where a supply has taken place but is not yet measured or billed, the revenue is estimated based on consumption statistics and 
selling price estimates and is recognised as accrued income. 
Revenue for contracts satisfied over time is recognised in line with the progress of those contracts. The measurement of progress is based on cost 
inputs for fixed price Customers contracts, and volume supplied for other contracts. Assumptions are applied consistently but third party costs can 
be variable, therefore actual outcomes may vary from initial estimates. 
The Group is eligible for, and therefore applies, the practical expedient available in IFRS 15 and has not disclosed information related to the 
transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations. The right to receive consideration from a customer is at an amount that 
corresponds directly with the value to the customer of the Group’s performance completed to date. 
Other revenues derived from the provision of services to National Grid (for example, the supply of system support services) are recognised by 
reference to the stage of completion of the contractual performance obligations. Most such contracts are for the delivery of a service either 
continually or on an ad-hoc basis over a period of time and thus stage of completion is calculated by reference to the amount of the contract term 
that has elapsed. Depending on the contract terms this approach may require judgement in estimating probable future outcomes. 
Other revenues derived from the sale of goods (for example, by-products from electricity generation such as ash and gypsum) are recognised at 
the point the control of the goods is transferred to the customer, typically at the point of delivery to the customer’s premises. 
CfD payments 
The Group is party to a CfD with the Low Carbon Contracts Company (LCCC), a Government-owned entity responsible for delivering elements of 
the Government’s Electricity Market Reform Programme. Under the contract, the Group makes or receives payments in respect of electricity 
dispatched from a specific biomass-fuelled generating unit. The payment is calculated by reference to a strike price of £100 per MWh. The base 
year for the strike price was 2012 and it increases each year in line with the UK Consumer Price Index and changes in system balancing costs. The 
strike price at 31 December 2019 was £113.65 per MWh. 
When market prices (based on average traded prices in the preceding season) are above/below the strike price, the Group makes/receives an 
additional payment to/from LCCC equivalent to the difference between that market power price and the strike price, for each MWh produced from 
the generating unit supported by the CfD. Such payments are in addition to amounts received from the sale of the power in the wholesale market 
and either increase or limit the total income from the power dispatched from the relevant generating unit to the strike price in the CfD contract. 
ROC sales 
The generation and sale of ROCs is a key driver of the Group’s financial performance. The RO scheme places an obligation on electricity suppliers 
to source an increasing proportion of their electricity from renewable sources. Under the RO, ROCs are certificates issued to generators of 
renewable electricity which are then sold to bilateral counterparties, including suppliers, to demonstrate that they have fulfilled their obligations 
under the RO. ROCs are managed in compliance periods (CPs), running from April to March annually, CP1 commenced in April 2002. At 31 
December 2019 the Group is operating in CP18. 
To meet its obligations a supplier can either submit ROCs or pay the “buy-out” price at the end of the CP. The buy-out price was set at £30 per 
ROC in CP1 and rises with the UK Retail Price Index. The buy-out price in CP18 is £48.78. ROCs are typically procured in arm’s-length 
transactions with renewable generators at a market price slightly lower than the buy-out price for that CP. At the end of the CP, the amounts 
collected from suppliers paying the buy-out price form the “recycle fund”, which is distributed on a pro-rata basis to suppliers who presented ROCs 
in a compliance period. 
The financial benefit of a ROC recognised in the income statement at the point of generation is thus comprised of two parts: the expected value to 
be obtained in a sale transaction with a third party supplier relating to the buy-out price and the expected value of the recycle fund benefit to be 
received at the end of the CP. During the year, the Group made sales (and related purchases) of ROCs to help optimise its working capital position. 
External sales of ROCs in the table below includes £575.7 million of such sales (2018: £555.8 million), with a similar value reflected in cost of sales.  
Further analysis of revenue for the year ended 31 December 2019 is provided in the table below: 
 
Year ended 31 December 2019 
 
External  
£m 
Intra-group  
£m 
Total  
£m 
Power Generation 
 
 
 
Electricity sales 
1,364.9 
1,115.0 
2,479.9 
ROC sales 
733.7 
368.1 
1,101.8 
CfD income 
261.7 
– 
261.7 
Ancillary services 
49.9 
1.8 
51.7 
Other income 
23.6 
27.8 
51.4 
Customers 
 
 
 
Electricity and gas sales 
2,226.1 
– 
2,226.1 
Other income 
43.0 
– 
43.0 
Pellet Production 
 
 
 
Pellet sales 
– 
229.4 
229.4 
Elimination of intra-group sales 
– 
(1,742.1) 
(1,742.1) 
Total adjusted consolidated revenue 
4,702.9 
– 
4,702.9 
Certain remeasurements 
10.5 
– 
10.5 
Total consolidated revenue 
4,713.4 
– 
4,713.4 
 
Included within electricity sales above is £78.1 million of capacity market income relating to the period from October 2018-December 2019. 
Certain remeasurements of £10.5 million (2018: £(8.3) million) are comprised of gains and losses on derivative contracts that are used to manage 
risk exposures associated with the Group’s revenue, not designated into hedge accounting relationships under IFRS 9.  
Revenue recognised in the year that was included within contract liabilities at the start of the year was £6.6 million. 
The following is an analysis of the Group’s revenues for the year ended 31 December 2018: 
 
Year ended 31 December 2018 
 
External  
£m 
Intra-group  
£m 
Total  
£m 
Power Generation 
 
 
 
Electricity sales 
983.4 
1,020.4 
2,003.8 
ROC and LEC sales 
664.5 
316.3 
980.8 
CfD income 
321.5 
– 
321.5 
Ancillary services 
18.8 
– 
18.8 
Other income 
6.7 
– 
6.7 
Customers 
 
 
 
Electricity and gas sales 
2,195.9 
– 
2,195.9 
Other income 
46.5 
– 
46.5 
Pellet Production 
 
 
 
Pellet sales 
– 
213.7 
213.7 
Elimination of intra-group sales 
– 
(1,550.4) 
(1,550.4) 
Total adjusted consolidated revenue 
4,237.3 
– 
4,237.3 
Certain remeasurements 
(8.3) 
– 
(8.3) 
Total consolidated revenue 
4,229.0 
– 
4,229.0 
 
 
3 Operating expenses 
This note sets out the material components of operating and administrative expenses in the Consolidated income statement and a detailed 
breakdown of the fees paid to the Group’s auditor, Deloitte LLP, in respect of services they provided to the Group during the year. 
 
Years ended 31 December 
 
2019  
£m 
2018  
£m 
The following expenditure has been charged in arriving at operating profit: 
 
 
Staff costs  
184.4 
145.7 
Repairs and maintenance expenditure on property, plant and equipment 
106.3 
45.7 
Expense for short-term and low value leases 
0.7 
– 
Other operating and administrative expenses 
147.9 
128.6 
Total operating and administrative expenses 
439.3 
320.0 
 
Operating lease costs in 2018 of £3.3 million in respect of land and buildings and £1.6 million in respect of other operating leases were included in 
other operating and administrative expenses. Following the adoption of IFRS 16 from 1 January 2019 (see note 17), operating leases that meet the 
definition of right-of-use assets are capitalised and recognised on the balance sheet with a corresponding lease liability. The Group has taken the 
exemption available under short-term and low value leases. Leases that have a term of less than 12 months or the underlying asset is less than 
£3,500 are expensed to the income statement on a systematic basis over the term of the lease. The amounts expensed in relation to short-term 
and low value leases in 2019 was £0.7 million. 
 
Auditor’s remuneration 
 
Years ended 31 December 
 
2019  
£000 
2018  
£000 
Audit fees: 
 
 
Fees payable for the audit of the Group’s consolidated financial statements 
863.9 
905.1 
Fees payable for the audit of the Company’s subsidiaries 
36.0 
32.4 
 
899.9 
937.5 
Other fees: 
 
 
Review of the Group’s half-year condensed consolidated financial statements 
96.2 
91.0 
Other services 
2.0 
2.0 
Total audit-related fees 
998.1 
1,030.5 
Other assurance services 
180.0 
1,335.0 
Other non-audit fees 
– 
139.0 
Total non-audit fees 
180.0 
1,474.0 
Total auditor’s remuneration 
1,178.1 
2,504.5 
 
The Group fee relates to the audit of all the subsidiaries to a statutory materiality. In addition, certain head office companies are not required for the 
Group audit opinion, the allocation of which is included in the fees payable for the audit of the Company’s subsidiaries disclosed above. 
Other assurance services provided by Deloitte LLP in 2019 consist of agreed upon procedures and other assurance services provided in 
connection with the bond issuance in May 2019 (2018: assurance and agreed-upon procedures performed in connection with the bond issuance in 
April 2018, and reporting accountant and related services for the Class I circular issued for the acquisition of the new generation assets from 
ScottishPower). 
Other non-audit fees in 2018 comprised a review of IT resilience and Disaster Recovery processes. 
Non-audit services are approved by the Audit Committee in accordance with the policy set out on the Group‘s website (www.drax.com/policies). 
4 Review of fixed assets for impairment  
Accounting policy 
The Group reviews its fixed assets (or, where appropriate, groups of assets known as cash-generating units (CGUs)) whenever there is an indication 
that an impairment loss may have been suffered. The Group assesses the existence of indicators of impairment annually.  
In respect of the Customers and Pellet Production businesses, the Group considers the smallest groups of assets that generate independent cash 
flows to be equivalent to the operating entities within those businesses – Haven Power, Opus Energy and Drax Biomass. 
In respect of the Generation business, the Group considers the smallest groups of assets that generate independent cash flows to be the individual 
sites that share common infrastructure and control functions. 
If an indication of potential impairment exists, the recoverable amount of the asset or CGU in question is assessed with reference to the present 
value of the future cash flows expected to be derived from the continuing use of the asset or CGU (value in use) or the expected price that would be 
received to sell the asset to another market participant (fair value less costs to sell). The initial assessment of recoverable amount is normally based 
on value in use. 
Where value in use is calculated, the assessment of future cash flows is based on the most recent approved business plan and includes all of the 
necessary costs expected to be incurred to generate the cash inflows from the CGU’s assets in their current state and condition, including an 
allocation of centrally managed costs. Central costs are only allocated where they are necessary for and directly attributable to the CGU’s activities. 
Future cash flows include, where relevant, contracted cash flows arising from the Group’s cash flow hedging activities and as a result the carrying 
amount of each CGU includes the mark-to-market value of those cash flow hedges. 
The additional value that could be obtained from enhancing or converting the Group’s assets is not reflected, nor the potential benefit of any future 
restructuring or reorganisation. In determining value in use, the estimate of future cash flows is discounted to present value using a pre-tax rate 
reflecting the specific risks attributable to the CGU in question. 
If the recoverable amount is less than the current carrying amount in the financial statements, a provision is made to reduce the carrying amount of 
the asset or CGU to the estimated recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognised immediately in the income statement. 
Goodwill balances and intangible assets with an indefinite useful economic life are assessed for impairment annually. 
Assessment of indicators of impairment 
A review of the Group’s CGUs did not give rise to any indicators of impairment. Accordingly no detailed impairment calculation has been completed 
for CGUs where no goodwill is allocated (Drax Power, Drax Biomass and the four CCGTs within Generation). The review considered the impact on 
previously calculated headroom of movements in market prices for commodities and changes in foreign exchange rates. 
During 2019, the Group finalised its assessment of CGUs, and the allocation of goodwill to those CGUs, in respect of the new generation assets 
acquired from ScottishPower on 31 December 2018. 
All impairment reviews conducted in 2019 indicated adequate headroom to conclude that no impairment charges were required. Accordingly, no 
amounts have been charged to the income statement in respect of asset impairment in 2019. (2018: £26.8 million asset obsolescence charge in 
respect of coal-specific assets no longer required following the conversion of a generating unit to run on biomass at Drax Power Station). 
Goodwill impairment review 
The recoverable amount of the Haven Power and Opus Energy CGUs is measured annually, based on a value-in-use calculation using the 
Group’s established planning model. This model depends on a broad range of assumptions, the most significant of which are customer margins 
and supply volumes. Inherent in these assumptions are expectations about future energy prices and supply costs. Cash flows beyond the business 
plan period are inflated into perpetuity using a growth rate of 1%. 
The carrying amount of the Haven Power CGU at 31 December 2019 was £49.9 million. The expected future cash flows of the CGU were 
discounted using a discount rate of 7.5% (calculated based on independent analysis commissioned by the Group, adjusted to the specific 
circumstances and risk factors affecting the Group’s Customers business). The Group believes that this rate reflects the prospects for a well-
established Customers business. The value in use of the Haven Power CGU, including the goodwill, was significantly in excess of its carrying 
amount. 
The carrying amount of the Opus Energy CGU at 31 December 2019 was £319.5 million, including intangible assets of £162 million. Following 
further integration of Opus Energy into the Group’s existing Customers business during 2019, the discount rate was assessed as being in line with 
that of Haven Power at 7.5%. The value in use of the Opus Energy CGU, including the goodwill and intangible assets, was significantly in excess of 
its carrying amount.  
The Group has conducted a sensitivity analysis of the estimates of future cash flows of the Haven Power and Opus Energy CGUs. This analysis 
indicates that any reasonably possible change in the key assumptions, which are customer margins, supply volumes and discount rate, would not 
cause an impairment loss in respect of goodwill. 
Goodwill associated with recently acquired generation assets 
The Group tested the goodwill associated with the Lanark, Galloway and Cruachan CGUs for the first time at 31 December 2019. The recoverable 
amount of each CGU was calculated based on a value-in-use calculation using the Group’s established planning model. The model depends on a 
broad range of assumptions, the most significant of which are power prices, operating model, sources of stability income and the discount rate 
applied. Cash flows beyond the business plan period are inflated into perpetuity using a growth rate of 2%. 
The carrying amounts and discount rates applied to each CGU are set out in the table below: 
CGU 
Carrying Amount 
Discount Rate 
Lanark 
56.4 
6.6% 
Galloway 
198.1 
6.6% 
Cruachan 
319.9 
6.6% 
 
The discount rates were calculated based on independent analysis commissioned by the Group, adjusted to the specific circumstances and risk 
factors affecting the Group’s Generation business. 
The value in use of each of the CGUs in the table above, including allocated goodwill, was significantly in excess of its carrying amount.  
The Group has conducted a sensitivity analysis of the estimates of future cash flows of the Lanark, Galloway and Cruachan CGUs. For the 
Cruachan CGU, this analysis indicates that any reasonably possible change in the key assumptions would not cause an impairment loss in respect 
of goodwill. For the Lanark and Galloway CGUs, a sustained reduction in long-term power prices in excess of 5% or an increase discount rate of 
1%, when compared to the assumptions applied in the value in use analysis at 31 December 2019, would result in a recoverable amount for those 
CGUs equivalent to their carrying amounts. These sensitivities are considered reasonably possible to arise in isolation but do not consider the 
impact of mitigating actions or compensating changes in other assumptions. 
Development assets impairment review 
The development assets arose on the acquisition of four OCGT projects in December 2016 and reflect the value of planning and consents. Until 
operations commence, the assets are considered to have an indefinite life and thus are not amortised and are subject to impairment testing at each 
balance sheet date. 
At 31 December 2019, the recoverable amount of the development assets was established using a value-in-use calculation derived from the 
Group’s established planning model. The assessment reflected the Government’s announcement that the Capacity Market will be reinstated and 
incorporated key assumptions related to likely Capacity Market clearing prices, construction costs, and the ongoing revenues to be derived from the 
projects once constructed. 
The analysis assumes a Capacity Market clearing price that is higher than recently observed clearing prices, but is supported by independent 
forecasts of future prices.  
The expected future cash flows were discounted using a rate of 7%, which includes an assessment of the level of construction and execution risk 
inherent in the existing assets and quality of revenue if constructed. The analysis indicated a recoverable amount in excess of the current carrying 
amount of the development assets. 
The analysis is sensitive to the key assumptions described above and the discount rate applied. Set out below are the changes in these 
assumptions that would result in a recoverable amount that is less than the carrying amount: 
• 
Increasing the discount rate by approximately 1.2%  
• 
A reduction in the Capacity Market clearing price achieved of 17% 
• 
An increase in the total construction cost of 12% 
• 
A reduction in system stability revenue streams of 21% 
If any of these circumstances were to materialise, individually or in aggregate and without mitigation, the Group may not proceed with the projects 
and the assets currently recognised on the balance sheet would be impaired. In particular, the analysis depends upon achieving an acceptable 
clearing price in future Capacity Market auctions. 
5 Net finance costs 
Finance costs reflect expenses incurred in managing the debt structure (such as interest payable on bonds) as well as foreign exchange gains and 
losses, the unwinding of discount on provisions for reinstatement of the Group’s sites at the end of their useful lives, net interest charged on the 
Group’s defined benefit pension scheme obligation and lease liabilities. These are offset by interest income that the Group generates through 
efficient use of short-term cash surpluses – for example through investment in money market funds. 
On 2 January 2019, the Group drew down £550 million from the £725 million acquisition bridge facility to partially fund the acquisition of the new 
generation assets, with the remainder of the consideration funded from the Group’s cash resources. 
Deferred financing costs in relation to the acquisition bridge facility of £5.2 million were written off to the income statement. Financing costs of £15.5 
million in relation to the new facilities have been deferred and are being amortised over the term of the facilities. (2018: incremental costs of £3.8 
million in relation to new borrowings were deferred and are being amortised at the effective interest rate, and £5.2 million in relation to floating rate 
notes and an early repayment charge of £2.0 million were written off). 
As described in note 7, the £5.2 million of costs associated with the acquisition bridge facility have been excluded from the Adjusted Results and 
are presented as exceptional items in arriving at Total Results. Further information about the Group’s financing structure can be found in note 13. 
 
 
Years ended 31 December 
 
2019  
£m 
2018  
£m 
Interest payable and similar charges: 
 
 
Interest payable on borrowings 
(49.8) 
(36.3) 
Interest on lease liabilities  
(1.2) 
– 
Unwinding of discount on provisions  
(4.5) 
(0.9) 
Amortisation of deferred finance costs 
(4.2) 
(3.1) 
Net finance credit in respect of defined benefit scheme 
0.8 
0.1 
Other financing charges 
(2.4) 
(0.2) 
Total interest payable and similar charges included in adjusted results 
(61.3) 
(40.4) 
Interest receivable: 
 
 
Interest income on bank deposits 
1.3 
1.2 
Total interest receivable included in adjusted results 
1.3 
1.2 
 
 
 
Foreign exchange (losses)/gains included in adjusted results 
(1.6) 
0.3 
 
 
 
Total recurring net interest charge included in adjusted results 
(61.6) 
(38.9) 
 
 
 
Exceptional costs of debt restructure: 
 
 
Fees to exit existing facilities 
– 
(2.0) 
Acceleration of deferred costs in relation to previous facilities 
(5.2) 
(5.2) 
Total exceptional costs of debt restructure 
(5.2) 
(7.2) 
 
 
 
Certain remeasurements on financing derivatives 
2.0 
– 
 
 
 
Total net interest charge 
(64.8) 
(46.1) 
 
Foreign exchange gains and losses in interest arise on the retranslation of non-derivative balances denominated in foreign currencies to prevailing 
rates at the balance sheet date.  
6 Current and deferred taxation  
The tax charge includes both current and deferred tax. Current tax is the estimated amount of tax payable on this year’s taxable profits (which are 
adjusted for items upon which the Group is not required to pay tax or, in some cases, for items which are not allowable for tax purposes and 
therefore on which additional tax is required) and adjusted for estimates for previous years. Deferred tax is an accounting adjustment which reflects 
where more or less tax is expected to arise in the future due to differences between the accounting and tax rules. This is reflected in differences 
between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the balance sheet and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable 
profits. The tax credit reflects the estimated effective tax rate on the loss before tax for the Group for the year ended 31 December 2019 and the 
movement in the deferred tax balance in the year, so far as it relates to items recognised in the income statement. 
Accounting policy 
Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is based on the taxable profit or loss for the year in the relevant jurisdiction. Taxable profit 
or loss differs from profit/loss before tax as reported in the income statement, because it excludes items of income or expenditure that are either 
taxable or deductible in other years or never taxable/deductible. The Group’s liability (or asset) for current tax is provided at amounts expected to be 
paid (or recovered) using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. 
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial 
statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable 
temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which 
deductible temporary differences can be utilised. 
Current and deferred tax are recognised in profit or loss, except when they relate to items that are recognised in other comprehensive income or 
directly in equity, in which case the current and deferred tax are recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity respectively. 
 
The Group has adopted the research and development expenditure credit regime (RDEC). Under this regime, research and development tax 
credits are accounted for as development grants, and are recorded in operating profit within the income statement, with the corresponding 
receivable being offset against corporation tax payable.   
Significant estimation uncertainty 
In accounting for taxation the Group makes assumptions regarding the treatment of items of income and expenditure for tax purposes. The Group 
believes that these assumptions are reasonable, based on prior experience and consultation with advisers. Full provision is made for deferred 
taxation at the rates of tax prevailing at the period end date unless future rates have been substantively enacted. Deferred tax assets are 
recognised where it is considered more likely than not that they will be recovered. Where such assets relate to losses incurred by a business unit, 
particularly one with a history of losses, the Group seeks evidence other than its own internal forecasts to support recognition of the related deferred 
tax asset. 
 
Years ended 31 December 
 
2019  
£m 
2018  
£m 
Total tax credit comprises: 
 
 
Current tax 
 
 
– Current year 
31.0 
17.0 
– Adjustments in respect of prior periods 
10.4 
(5.2) 
Deferred tax 
 
 
– Before impact of tax rate changes 
(39.0) 
(18.4) 
– Adjustments in respect of prior periods 
(7.5) 
– 
– Effect of changes in tax rate 
1.8 
0.2 
Total tax credit 
(3.3) 
(6.4) 
 
 
Years ended 31 December 
 
2019  
£m 
2018  
£m 
Tax charged/(credited) on items recognised in other comprehensive income: 
 
 
Deferred tax on actuarial (losses)/gains on defined benefit pension scheme 
(4.3) 
3.0 
Deferred tax on cash flow hedges 
(5.1) 
35.4 
Deferred tax on cost of hedging 
9.7 
4.7 
 
0.3 
43.1 
 
 
Years ended 31 December 
 
2019  
£m 
2018  
£m 
Tax (credited)/charged on items released directly from equity: 
 
 
Deferred tax on cost of hedging 
0.7 
2.8 
Deferred tax on cash flow hedges 
(17.1) 
(17.7) 
 
(16.4) 
(14.9) 
 
UK corporation tax is the main rate of tax for the Group and is calculated at 19.00% (2018: 19.00%) of the assessable profit or loss for the year. Tax 
for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions. 
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled, or the asset is realised based on 
jurisdictional tax laws and rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.  
 
The tax charge for the year can be reconciled to the profit before tax as follows: 
 
Year ended 31 December 2019 
Year ended 31 December 2018 
 
Adjusted  
Results  
£m 
Exceptional  
items  
and certain 
 remeasurements  
£m 
Total  
Results  
£m 
Adjusted  
Results  
£m 
Exceptional  
items  
and certain 
remeasurements 
 £m 
Total  
Results  
(Restated)  
£m 
Profit/(loss) before tax 
142.2 
(145.0) 
(2.8) 
37.1 
(23.3) 
13.8 
Profit/(loss) before tax multiplied by the rate  
of corporation tax in the UK of 19.00%  
(2018: 19.00%) 
27.0 
(27.5) 
(0.5) 
7.0 
(4.4) 
2.6 
Effects of: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adjustments in respect of prior periods 
2.9 
– 
2.9 
(5.7) 
– 
(5.7) 
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 
0.6 
0.1 
0.7 
1.1 
3.5 
4.6 
Effect of changes in tax rate 
1.8 
– 
1.8 
0.2 
– 
0.2 
Difference in overseas tax rates 
(0.2) 
– 
(0.2) 
(0.3) 
– 
(0.3) 
Patent box benefit 
(8.0) 
– 
(8.0) 
(8.1) 
– 
(8.1) 
Other 
– 
– 
– 
1.0 
(0.7) 
0.3 
Total tax charge/(credit) 
24.1 
(27.4) 
(3.3) 
(4.8) 
(1.6) 
(6.4) 
 
As a result of the reduction in the US federal tax rates to 21% from 2018, and tax relief now arising to the Group from the UK Patent Box regime 
(see below), in the medium term, the Group anticipates that the underlying effective tax rate will be marginally lower than the main rate of 
corporation tax in the UK.  
Drax Power was granted a patent to protect certain intellectual property it owns and which attaches to the technology developed to manage the 
combustion process in generating electricity from biomass. Under UK tax legislation the Company is entitled to apply a lower rate of tax to some of 
its profits each year which are derived from utilisation of that technology.  
The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities during each year are shown below. 
 
Deferred tax (liabilities)/assets 
 
Financial 
 instruments  
(restated)  
£m 
Accelerated  
capital  
allowances  
£m 
Non-trade 
 losses  
£m 
Intangible  
assets  
£m 
Trade  
losses  
£m 
Other  
liabilities  
£m 
Other  
assets  
£m 
Total  
£m 
At 1 January 2018 
(31.2) 
(161.0) 
– 
(33.2) 
26.9 
(18.5) 
9.7 
(207.3) 
Effect of acquisition 
– 
(48.4) 
– 
– 
– 
(20.0) 
– 
(68.4) 
(Charged)/credited to the income statement 
(7.4) 
6.5 
2.0 
7.1 
(6.1) 
5.3 
11.0 
18.4 
Charged to other comprehensive income in 
respect of actuarial gains 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
(3.0) 
(3.0) 
Charged to other comprehensive income in 
respect of cash flow hedges 
(35.4) 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
(35.4) 
Charged to other comprehensive income in 
respect to cost of hedging 
(4.7) 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
(4.7) 
Credited to equity in respect 
of cash flow hedges 
17.7 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
17.7 
Charged to equity in respect of cost of hedging 
(2.8) 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
(2.8) 
Effect of changes in foreign exchange rates 
– 
– 
– 
– 
1.4 
– 
– 
1.4 
At 1 January 2019 
(63.8) 
(202.9) 
2.0 
(26.1) 
22.2 
(33.2) 
17.7 
(284.2) 
(Charged)/credited to the income statement 
25.3 
8.3 
(0.3) 
6.0 
5.6 
5.7 
(5.9) 
44.7 
Charged to other comprehensive income in 
respect of actuarial gains 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
4.3 
4.3 
Credited to other comprehensive income in 
respect of cash flow hedges 
5.1 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
5.1 
Charged to other comprehensive income in 
respect of cost of hedging 
(9.7) 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
(9.7) 
Credited to equity in respect 
of cash flow hedges 
17.1 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
17.1 
Charged to equity in respect of cost of hedging 
(0.7) 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
(0.7) 
Effect of changes in foreign exchange rates 
– 
– 
– 
– 
(0.3) 
– 
– 
– 
At 31 December 2019 
(26.7) 
(194.6) 
1.7 
(20.1) 
27.5 
(27.5) 
16.1 
(223.7) 
 
Financial 
 instruments  
(restated)  
£m 
Accelerated  
capital  
allowances  
£m 
Non-trade 
 losses  
£m 
Intangible  
assets  
£m 
Trade  
losses  
£m 
Other  
liabilities  
£m 
Other  
assets  
£m 
Total  
£m 
Deferred tax balances (after offset) 
for financial reporting purposes: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Net deferred tax asset 
– 
– 
1.7 
– 
27.5 
– 
16.1 
45.3 
Net deferred tax liability 
(26.7) 
(194.6) 
– 
(20.1) 
– 
(27.5) 
– 
(268.9) 
 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where the Group has a legally enforceable right to do so, otherwise they are shown separately in the 
balance sheet. 
Within the above deferred tax balances is a net deferred tax asset of £27.5 million (2018: £22.2 million) in relation to start-up losses and other 
temporary differences in the US-based Pellet Production business. Based on its business plan and reflecting continuing improvement in operational 
performance, the Group anticipates that it will generate sufficient profits in future periods against which to utilise this asset. 
 
7 Certain remeasurements and exceptional items 
The Group reflects its underlying financial results in the Adjusted Results column of the Consolidated income statement. In order to provide a clear 
and consistent view of trading performance, certain remeasurements and exceptional items are presented in a separate column. The Group 
believes that this presentation provides useful information about the financial performance of the business and is consistent with the way executive 
management and the Board assess the performance of the business. 
The Group has a framework for the determination of transactions as exceptional. Transactions presented as exceptional are approved by the Audit 
Committee. 
In these financial statements, the following transactions have been designated as exceptional items and presented separately: 
• 
Acquisition and restructuring costs associated with the acquisition and on-boarding of Drax Generation Enterprise Limited (formerly 
ScottishPower Generation Limited) (2019 and 2018) into the Group, along with costs associated with the restructuring of the Pellet 
Production and Customers businesses (2018). 
• 
Asset obsolescence charges, which in 2018 related to coal-specific assets associated with the conversion of the fourth unit at Drax 
Power Station to run on biomass fuel. 
• 
Costs incurred as a result of restructuring the Group’s debt in 2019 and 2018, including facility break costs and the acceleration of the 
amortisation of deferred finance costs associated with the redeemed facilities. Interest costs that relate to the acquisition bridge facility 
have been classified as exceptional, as they relate directly to the acquisition described above. 
• 
Certain remeasurements comprise gains or losses on derivative contracts to the extent that those contracts do not qualify for hedge 
accounting, or hedge accounting is not effective, and those gains or losses are either i) unrealised and relate to the delivery of commodity 
contracts in future periods, or ii) are realised in relation to the delivery of commodity contracts in the current period. The effect of 
excluding certain remeasurements from the Adjusted Results is to reflect commodity sales and purchases at contracted prices – i.e. at 
the all-in-hedged amount paid or received in respect of the delivery of the commodity in question, to better present the trading 
performance of the Group in Adjusted Results. 
 
Years ended 31 December 
 
2019  
£m 
2018  
£m 
Exceptional items: 
 
 
Acquisition and restructuring costs  
(9.0) 
(27.7) 
Asset obsolescence charges 
– 
(26.8) 
Exceptional items included within Operating Profit 
(9.0) 
(54.5) 
Cost of debt restructure  
(5.2) 
(7.2) 
Exceptional items included in Profit Before Tax 
(14.2) 
(61.7) 
Taxation on Exceptional items  
2.6 
9.0 
Exceptional items after taxation  
(11.6) 
(52.7) 
Remeasurements: 
 
 
Net remeasurements included in Gross Profit  
(132.8) 
38.4 
Net remeasurements included in Foreign exchange gains 
2.0 
– 
Taxation on certain remeasurements  
24.8 
(7.4) 
Remeasurements after taxation  
(106.0) 
31.0 
Reconciliation: 
 
 
Adjusted results 
118.1 
41.9 
Exceptional items after tax  
(11.6) 
(52.7) 
Remeasurements after tax  
(106.0) 
31.0 
Profit/(loss) after tax 
0.5 
20.2 
 
 
 
8 Earnings per share 
Earnings per share (EPS) represents the amount of earnings (post-tax profits) attributable to each ordinary share in issue. Basic EPS is calculated 
by dividing the Group’s earnings (profit after tax in accordance with IFRS) by the weighted average number of ordinary shares that were in issue 
during the year. Diluted EPS demonstrates the impact if all outstanding share options that are expected to vest on their future maturity dates (such 
as those to be issued under employee share schemes) were exercised and treated as ordinary shares as at the balance sheet date. 
 
Years ended 31 December 
2019 
2018 
Earnings attributable to equity holders of the Company (£m) 
0.5 
20.2 
Number of shares: 
 
 
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share (millions) 
395.5 
402.4 
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares under share plans 
1.9 
4.5 
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share (millions) 
397.4 
406.9 
Earnings/(loss) per share – basic (pence) 
0.1 
5.0 
Earnings/(loss) per share – diluted (pence) 
0.1 
4.9 
 
Repurchased shares are not included in the weighted average calculation of shares. Application of the same calculation to Adjusted profit after tax of 
£118.1 million results in Adjusted basic EPS of 29.9 pence and Adjusted diluted EPS of 29.7 pence (2018: Adjusted profit after tax of £41.9 million, 
Adjusted basic EPS of 10.4 pence and Adjusted diluted EPS of 10.3 pence). 
9 Dividends 
 
Years ended 31 December 
 
2019  
£m 
2018  
£m 
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year (based on the number of shares in issue 
at the record date): 
 
 
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2019 of 6.4 pence per share paid on 11 October 2019 
 
 
(2018: 5.6 pence per share paid on 12 October 2018) 
25.4 
22.4 
Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2018 of 8.5 pence per share paid on 10 May 2019 
 
 
(2017: 7.4 pence per share paid on 11 May 2018) 
33.5 
30.1 
 
58.9 
52.5 
 
At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting the Board will recommend to shareholders that a resolution is passed to approve payment of a final 
dividend for the year ended 31 December 2019 of 9.5 pence per share (equivalent to approximately £38 million) payable on or before 15 May 
2020. The final dividend has not been included as a liability as at 31 December 2019. This would bring total dividends payable in respect of the 
2019 financial year to £63 million. 
The Group has a long-standing capital allocation policy. This policy is based on a commitment to robust financial metrics that underpin the Group’s 
strong credit rating; investment in the core business; paying a sustainable and growing dividend; and returning surplus capital to shareholders. The 
Board is confident that the dividend is sustainable and expects it to grow as the implementation of the Group’s strategy generates an increasing 
proportion of stable earnings and cash flows. In determining the rate of growth in dividends the Board will take account of future investment 
opportunities and the less predictable cash flows from the Group’s commodity based businesses. 
In future years, if there is a build-up of capital in excess of the Group’s investment needs, the Board will consider the most appropriate mechanism 
to return this to shareholders. 
 
 
10 Retained profits 
Retained profits are a component of equity reserves. The overall balance reflects the total profits the Group has generated over its lifetime, reduced 
by the amount of that profit distributed to shareholders. The table below sets out the movements in retained profits during the year: 
 
Years ended 31 December 
 
2019  
£m 
2018  
£m 
At 1 January 
442.7 
457.9 
Profit for the year 
0.5 
20.2 
Actuarial (losses)/gains on defined benefit pension scheme  
(21.5) 
15.9 
Deferred tax on actuarial gains on defined benefit pension scheme (note 6) 
4.3 
(3.0) 
Equity dividends paid (note 9) 
(58.9) 
(52.5) 
(Loss)/gain on equity investment 
(0.1) 
0.2 
Net movements in equity associated with share-based payments  
2.7 
4.0 
At 31 December 
369.7 
442.7 
 
Distributable profits 
The capacity of the Group to make dividend payments is primarily determined by the availability of retained distributable profits and cash resources. 
The Parent Company’s distributable reserves are £188.2 million. Sufficient reserves are available across the Group as a whole to make future 
distributions in accordance with the Group’s dividend policy for the foreseeable future. 
The majority of the Group’s distributable reserves are held in holding and operating subsidiaries. Management actively monitors the level of 
distributable reserves in each company in the Group, ensuring adequate reserves are available for upcoming dividend payments and that the 
Parent Company has access to these reserves. 
The immediate cash resources of the Group of £404.1 million are set out in note 12 and the recent history of cash generation within note 14. The 
majority of these cash resources are held centrally within the Group by Drax Corporate Limited for treasury management purposes and are 
available for funding the working capital and other requirements of the Group. 
The Group’s financing facilities (see note 13) place certain conditions on the amount of dividend payments to be made in any given year. The 
Group expects to be able to make dividend payments, in line with its policy, within these conditions for the foreseeable future. 
11 Reconciliation of net debt 
Net debt is calculated by taking the Group’s borrowings (note 13) and subtracting cash and cash equivalents (note 12). The table below reconciles 
net debt in terms of changes in these balances across the year. 
 
Years ended 31 December 
 
2019 
£m 
2018  
£m 
Net debt at 1 January 
(319.1) 
(367.4) 
Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 
121.9 
65.6 
(Increase)/decrease in borrowings 
(645.3) 
4.2 
Effect of changes in foreign exchange rates 
1.4 
(21.5) 
Net debt at 31 December 
(841.1) 
(319.1) 
 
Borrowings include listed bonds, bank debt and revolving credit facilities, net of any deferred finance costs. Borrowings do not include other 
financial liabilities such as IFRS 16 lease liabilities, pension obligations and trade and other payables. Whilst the definition of net debt is unchanged 
from previous periods, following the adoption of IFRS 16 as of 1 January 2019, finance leases no longer form part of borrowings and have been 
subsumed into the larger lease liability calculated in accordance with IFRS 16. The carrying amount of finance lease liabilities at 31 December 2018 
was £0.5 million. 
The Group does not include lease liabilities, calculated in accordance with IFRS 16, in the definition of net debt. This reflects the nature of the 
contracts included in this balance, which were predominantly classified as operating leases under the old lease standard (IAS 17 and IFRIC 4). 
These leases were therefore previously not held on the balance sheet, but were disclosed as operating commitments in the Group’s 2018 Annual 
Report and Accounts. At 31 December 2019, these liabilities had a carrying amount of £32.5 million. 
A reconciliation of the increase in borrowings during the year is set out in note 13. 
The Group has entered into cross-currency interest rate swaps, fixing the sterling value of the principal repayments in respect of the Group’s US 
dollar denominated debt (see note 13). If US dollar balances are translated at the hedged rate, rather than the rate prevailing at the balance sheet 
date, the carrying amount of the Group’s borrowings would be reduced by £12.2 million (2018: reduced by £22.0 million). The corresponding value 
of the hedging instrument is recognised at its fair value as a derivative financial instrument. 
12 Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents include cash held in current and other deposit accounts that is accessible on demand. It is the Group’s policy to invest 
available cash on hand in short-term, low-risk bank accounts or deposit accounts. 
 
As at 31 December 
 
2019  
£m 
2018  
£m 
Cash and cash equivalents 
404.1 
289.0 
 
13 Borrowings 
Accounting policy 
The Group measures all debt instruments (whether financial assets or financial liabilities) initially at fair value, which equates to the principal value of 
the consideration paid or received. Subsequent to initial measurement, debt instruments are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest 
method. Transaction costs (any such costs incremental and directly attributable to the issue of the financial instrument) are included in the 
calculation of the effective interest rate and are amortised over the life of the instrument. 
Fees paid on the establishment of loan facilities are recognised as transaction costs of the loan to the extent that it is probable that some or all of 
the facility will be drawn down. Where this is the case, the fee is deferred until the draw-down occurs. 
Debt instruments denominated in foreign currencies are revalued using period end exchange rates, with any exchange gains and losses arising 
recognised as a component of net interest charges in the period they arise. The Group hedges foreign currency risk in accordance with its risk 
management policies. Where hedging instruments are used to fix cash flows associated with debt instruments, the debt instrument and the 
hedging instrument are measured and presented separately on the balance sheet. 
 
Reconciliation of borrowings 
The tables below show the movement in borrowings during the current and previous year: 
 
Year ended 31 December 2019 
 
Borrowings  
before deferred  
finance costs  
£m 
Deferred  
finance costs  
£m 
Net  
borrowings  
£m 
Borrowings at 1 January 
622.9 
(14.8) 
608.1 
Cash movements: 
 
 
 
2025 $200 million USD loan notes draw down 
152.8 
(3.4) 
149.4 
£550 million acquisition bridge facility draw down 
550.0 
(1.4) 
548.6 
UK infrastructure private placement draw down 
375.0 
(10.0) 
365.0 
ESG facility draw down 
125.0 
(2.1) 
122.9 
Repayment of £550 million acquisition bridge facility 
(550.0) 
– 
(550.0) 
Non-cash movements: 
 
 
 
Acceleration of deferred costs in relation to previous facilities (note 5) 
– 
5.2 
5.2 
Indexation of linked loan 
0.8 
– 
0.8 
Amortisation of deferred finance costs (note 5) 
– 
4.2 
4.2 
Amortisation of USD loan note premium 
(0.3) 
– 
(0.3) 
Effect of foreign exchange rates 
(8.2) 
– 
(8.2) 
Reclassification of finance leases 
(0.5) 
– 
(0.5) 
Borrowings at 31 December 
1,267.5 
(22.3) 
1,245.2 
 
On 2 January 2019, the Group drew down £550 million from the £725 million acquisition bridge facility to partially fund the acquisition of the new 
generation assets, with the remainder of the consideration funded from the Group’s cash resources. The acquisition bridge facility was fully 
refinanced in the year, ahead of its scheduled maturity in the second half of 2020, as described below. 
On 16 May 2019, the Group issued an additional US $200 million of the existing 2025 6.625% USD loan notes. The proceeds from the issuance 
were used to repay £150 million of the drawn down acquisition bridge facility. The notes were issued at 101.5% of their nominal value which, when 
swapped back into sterling, achieved an interest rate of 4.74%. 
On 24 July 2019, the Group successfully concluded the refinancing of the remaining £400 million drawn acquisition bridge facility. Two new facilities 
totalling £500 million were agreed with effective rates substantially inside Drax’s current cost of debt; a £375 million UK infrastructure private 
placement with maturities extending out to between 2024–2029 and a £125 million environment, social & governance or “ESG” facility. A proportion 
of the interest rate on the £125 million ESG facility is variable, based on the Group’s total carbon dioxide emissions per GWh of electricity 
generation. 
The Group’s financing structure also includes £350 million 4.25% fixed rate loan notes, US $300 million loan notes with a fixed interest rate of 
6.625%, which was swapped back to sterling upon issuance at an effective interest rate of 5%, and a £350 million facility comprised of Revolving 
Credit Facility (RCF) with a value of £315 million and an index-linked term loan of £35 million. The RCF matures in April 2021, with an option to 
extend by one year.  
Following the adoption of IFRS 16, finance leases have been reclassified to lease liabilities. Prior years have not been restated. 
The Group has cross-currency interest rate swaps in place to hedge the sterling cash flows associated with the USD loan notes. In addition to fixing 
the sterling value of interest payments over a five year period, this instrument fixes the sterling repayment of the principal at £367.5 million in 2023, 
the impact of which would reduce borrowings by £12.2 million. 
 
 
 
 
Year ended 31 December 2018 
 
Borrowings  
before deferred  
finance costs  
£m 
Deferred  
finance costs  
£m 
Net  
borrowings  
£m 
Borrowings at 1 January 
605.2 
(15.5) 
589.7 
Cash movements: 
 
 
 
2025 US $300 million loan notes drawn down 
213.3 
(3.8) 
209.5 
Repayment of floating rate loan notes on 1 May 2018 
(200.0) 
– 
(200.0) 
Repayment of US $25 million revolving facility 
(19.1) 
– 
(19.1) 
Deferred costs in relation to acquisition bridge facility 
– 
(3.8) 
(3.8) 
Non-cash movements: 
 
 
 
Indexation of linked loan 
1.2 
– 
1.2 
Amortisation of deferred finance costs (note 5) 
– 
3.1 
3.1 
Repayment of floating rate loan notes on 1 May 2018 
– 
5.2 
5.2 
Effect of foreign exchange rates 
22.6 
– 
22.6 
Changes in finance lease liabilities 
(0.3) 
– 
(0.3) 
Borrowings at 31 December 
622.9 
(14.8) 
608.1 
 
Amounts drawn against each facility in the Group’s financing structure in the current and previous year is shown in the tables below: 
 
As at 31 December 2019 
 
Borrowings  
before deferred  
finance costs  
£m 
Deferred  
finance costs  
£m 
Net  
borrowings  
£m 
2022 fixed loan notes 
350.0 
(5.3) 
344.7 
2025 US $500 million loan notes 
379.6 
(5.9) 
373.7 
Index-linked loan 
37.9 
– 
37.9 
UK infrastructure private placement 
375.0 
(9.3) 
365.7 
ESG facility 
125.0 
(1.8) 
123.2 
Total borrowings 
1,267.5 
(22.3) 
1,245.2 
Split between: 
 
 
 
Current borrowings 
– 
– 
– 
Non-current borrowings 
1,267.5 
(22.3) 
1,245.2 
 
The Group has a committed £315 million revolving credit facility available but had no cash drawings at 31 December 2019. The Group has no other 
committed facilities, although it has access to certain non-recourse trade receivable finance facilities and payment facilities, as described in note 14, 
which are utilised to accelerate working capital cash inflows and defer cash outflows. 
 
As at 31 December 2018 
 
Borrowings  
before deferred  
finance costs  
£m 
Deferred  
finance costs  
£m 
Net  
borrowings  
£m 
2022 fixed loan notes 
350.0 
(7.6) 
342.4 
2025 US $300 million loan notes 
235.3 
(3.4) 
231.9 
Index-linked loan 
37.1 
– 
37.1 
Acquisition bridge facility 
– 
(3.8) 
(3.8) 
Finance lease liabilities 
0.5 
– 
0.5 
Total borrowings 
622.9 
(14.8) 
608.1 
Split between: 
 
 
 
Current borrowings 
0.1 
– 
0.1 
Non-current borrowings 
622.8 
(14.8) 
608.0 
 
The Group’s financing structure, including the index linked loan, the loan notes, the RCF, private placement and ESG facility are secured against 
the assets of a number of the Group’s subsidiaries including property, plant and equipment, with the exception of the US subsidiaries’ assets. 
 
 
 
In addition, the Group has a secured commodity trading line, which allows it to transact prescribed volumes of commodity trades without the 
requirement to post collateral and FX trading lines with certain banks. Counterparties to these arrangements are entitled to share in the security as 
described above. As at 31 December 2019, this value was £32.7 million (2018: £11.9 million). 
14 Notes to the consolidated cash flow statement 
Cash generated from operations 
Cash generated from operations is the starting point of the Group’s cash flow statement. The table below makes adjustments for any non-cash 
accounting items to reconcile the Group’s net profit for the year to the amount of cash generated from the Group’s operations. 
 
Years ended 31 December 
 
2019  
£m 
2018  
£m 
Profit/(loss) for the year 
0.5 
20.2 
Adjustments for: 
 
 
Interest payable and similar charges 
66.5 
47.3 
Interest receivable 
(1.3) 
(1.2) 
Tax credit 
(3.3) 
(6.4) 
Depreciation and amortisation 
207.9 
173.8 
Asset obsolescence charge 
– 
26.8 
Losses on disposal 
1.2 
3.9 
Certain remeasurements of derivative contracts 
254.0 
(43.3) 
Defined benefit pension scheme current service cost 
7.1 
6.8 
Non-cash charge for share-based payments 
2.7 
4.0 
Other non-cash (gains)/losses 
(0.5) 
4.3 
Operating cash flows before movement in working capital 
534.8 
236.2 
Changes in working capital: 
 
 
(Increase)/decrease in inventories 
(67.8) 
52.5 
Increase in receivables 
(142.6) 
(15.4) 
Increase in payables 
110.2 
149.4 
Increase in carbon assets 
(4.3) 
(3.7) 
Decrease/(increase) in ROC assets 
54.0 
(71.2) 
Total cash (invested in)/released from working capital 
(50.5) 
111.6 
Defined benefit pension scheme contributions 
(13.1) 
(11.4) 
Cash generated from operations 
471.2 
336.4 
 
(1) Certain remeasurements of derivative contracts includes the effect of non-cash unrealised gains and losses recognised in the income statement and cash realised from derivative contracts designated into hedge 
relationships under IFRS 9, where the gain or loss is held in the hedge reserve pending release to the income statement in the period the hedged transaction occurs. 
The Group has a strong focus on cash flow discipline and uses various methods to manage liquidity. When compared to the year end position, 
these methods have been utilised to a broadly consistent level throughout the year unless otherwise stated. The impact of these actions on the 
cash flows of the Group is described below. 
Cash from ROCs is typically realised several months after the ROC is earned; however, through standard ROC sales and ROC purchase 
arrangements we are able to accelerate cash flows over a proportion of these assets. The net impact of ROC purchases and ROC sales on 
operating cash flows was a £131.2 million inflow (2018: £10.5 million outflow), reflected as a decrease (2018: increase) in ROC assets in the table 
above. The Group also has access to facilities enabling it to sell ROC trade receivables on a non-recourse basis. These facilities were utilised 
during the year but no amounts remained outstanding at 31 December (2018: £nil). 
From time to time, where market conditions change, the Group can rebase foreign currency contracts (including cross-currency interest rate 
swaps). In 2019 this generated a working capital benefit, which is reflected as an adjustment to derivative remeasurements in the table above. The 
total cash benefit released from related trades that remained outstanding at 31 December 2019 was £106.8 million (2018: £2.9 million). This cash 
benefit includes £84.3 million (2018: £2.9 million) released from foreign currency contracts and £22.5 million (2018: £nil) from cross-currency 
interest rate swaps.  
The Customers business has access to a facility which enables it to accelerate cash flows associated with trade receivables on a non-recourse 
basis, which generated a net cash inflow of £12.8 million in the year ended 31 December 2019, reflected as a reduction in receivables in the table 
above (2018: £24.4 million). The facility terms were amended in the year, increasing the facility size to £200 million from £150 million in 2018. 
Utilisation of the facility was £162.2 million at 31 December 2019 (2018: £149.4 million). 
 
 
 
 
The Group has sought to normalise payments across its supplier base resulting in certain suppliers extending payment terms and some reducing 
terms. Suppliers are able to access a supply chain finance facility provided by a bank, for which funds can be accelerated in advance of the normal 
payment terms. The facility does not affect the Group’s working capital, as payment terms remain unaltered with the Group. At 31 December 2019, 
the Group had trade payables of £33.1 million (2018: £2.2 million) related to reverse factoring. The Group also has access to a number of payment 
facilities to leverage scale and efficiencies in transaction processing, whilst providing a working capital benefit for the Group due to a short extension 
of payment terms within a normal working capital cycle. The amount outstanding under these facilities at 31 December 2019 was £90.6 million 
(2018: £87.0 million).  
Changes in liabilities arising from financing cash flows 
A reconciliation of the movements in liabilities arising from financing activities for both cash and non-cash changes is provided below: 
 
As at 31 December 2019 
 
Index-linked loans 
£m 
Interest rate swaps 
£m 
Lease liabilities 
£m 
Total  
£m 
Balance at 1 January 
607.6 
(27.9) 
0.5 
580.2 
 
 
 
 
 
Cash flows from financing activities 
635.9 
5.4 
(7.4) 
633.9 
Impact of foreign exchange rates 
(8.2) 
– 
(0.4) 
(8.6) 
Fair value (gains)/losses 
– 
5.4 
– 
5.4 
Other movements 
9.9 
– 
39.8 
49.7 
 
 
 
 
 
Balance at 31 December 
1,245.2 
(17.1) 
32.5 
1,260.6 
 
 
As at 31 December 2018 
 
Index-linked loans 
£m 
Interest rate swaps 
£m 
Lease liabilities 
£m 
Total  
£m 
Balance at 1 January 
588.9 
– 
0.8 
589.7 
 
 
 
 
 
Cash flows from financing activities 
(12.8) 
– 
– 
(12.8) 
Impact of foreign exchange rates 
22.0  
 
22.0 
Fair value (gains)/losses 
– 
(27.9) 
– 
(27.9) 
Other movements 
9.5 
– 
(0.3) 
9.2 
 
 
 
 
 
Balance at 31 December 
607.6 
(27.9) 
0.5 
580.2 
 
 
15 Equity and reserves 
The Group’s ordinary share capital reflects the total number of shares in issue, which are publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange. 
Accounting policy 
Ordinary shares are classified as equity as evidenced by their residual interest in the assets of the Company after deducting its liabilities. 
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds. 
 
As at 31 December 
 
2019  
£m 
2018  
£m 
Authorised: 
 
 
865,238,823 ordinary shares of 11 
16⁄29 pence each (2018: 865,238,823) 
100.0 
100.0 
Issued and fully paid: 
 
 
2019: 410,475,731 ordinary shares of 11 
16⁄29 pence each (2018: 407,193,168) 
47.4 
47.0 
 
47.4 
47.0 
 
 
 
 
The movement in allotted and fully paid share capital of the Company during the year was as follows: 
 
Years ended 31 December 
 
2019  
(number) 
2018  
(number) 
At 1 January 
407,193,168 407,034,429 
Issued under employee share schemes 
3,282,563 
158,739 
At 31 December 
410,475,731 407,193,168 
 
The Company has only one class of shares, which are ordinary shares of 11 
16⁄29 pence each, carrying no right to fixed income. No shareholders 
have waived their rights to dividends. 
Shares issued under employee share schemes 
Throughout January to December 2019, a total of 3,282,563 shares were issued in satisfaction of options vesting in accordance with the rules of 
the Group’s Savings-Related Share Option Plan.  
Share buy-back programme 
In the previous financial year, the Group announced the commencement of a £50.0 million share buy-back programme. On 21 January 2019, the 
buy-back programme concluded. In total, the Group purchased 13.8 million shares for total consideration of £50.4 million, including transaction 
costs. These shares are held in a separate Treasury Share reserve awaiting reissue or cancellation and have no voting rights attached to them. 
Share premium 
The share premium account reflects amounts received in respect of issued share capital that exceeds the nominal value of the shares issued. 
 
Share premium 
 
2019  
£m 
2018  
£m 
At 1 January 
424.7 
424.3 
Issue of share capital 
4.9 
0.4 
At 31 December 
429.6 
424.7 
 
Other reserves 
Other equity reserves reflect the impact of certain historical transactions, which are described under the table below: 
 
Capital  
redemption  
reserve  
£m 
Translation  
reserve  
(restated)  
£m 
Merger  
reserve  
£m 
Total other  
reserves 
(restated) 
£m 
At 1 January 2018 
1.5 
31.0 
710.8 
743.3 
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 
– 
24.9 
– 
24.9 
At 31 December 2018 
1.5 
55.9 
710.8 
768.2 
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 
– 
(11.2) 
– 
(11.2) 
At 31 December 2019 
1.5 
44.7 
710.8 
757.0 
 
The capital redemption reserve arose when the Group completed a share buy-back programme in 2007. 
Exchange differences relating to the translation of the net assets of the Group’s US-based subsidiaries from their functional currency (US dollar) 
into sterling for presentation in these consolidated financial statements are recognised in the translation reserve. 
The share premium and the merger reserve arose on the financial restructuring of the Group which took place in 2005. Movements in the share 
premium reserve reflect amounts received on the issue of shares under employee share schemes. 
Movements in the hedge reserve and the cost of hedging reserve reflect the change in fair value of derivative financial instruments designated into 
hedge accounting relationships in accordance with IFRS 9. 
16 Acquisitions 
Accounting policy 
Acquisitions of businesses are recognised at the point the Group obtains control of the target (the acquisition date). The consideration transferred, 
the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed are measured at their fair value on the acquisition date. The assets and liabilities are 
recognised in the Consolidated balance sheet and the revenues and profit or loss of the acquired business are recognised in the Consolidated 
income statement from the acquisition date. Acquisition-related costs are recognised in the income statement in the period the acquisition occurs as 
an exceptional item. Goodwill is measured as the excess of the fair value of the consideration transferred over the fair value of the identifiable net 
assets acquired. 
Acquisition of Drax Generation Enterprise Limited (formerly ScottishPower Generation Limited) 
There were no acquisitions during 2019; however, the Group has updated the fair value of assets and liabilities acquired in respect of the 
acquisition of ScottishPower Generation Limited, which completed on 31 December 2018. 
ScottishPower Generation Limited was renamed Drax Generation Enterprise Limited on 9 January 2019. 
Measurement period adjustments 
The fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired has been adjusted to reflect the following: 
• 
The conclusion of the completion statement process in respect of the acquisition. This process resulted in changes to the values of 
financial assets and liabilities as estimated amounts were confirmed subsequent to the acquisition date. As a result, the Group made a 
further payment in accordance with the terms of the acquisition of £4.8 million, increased the fair value of the net assets acquired by £2.5 
million, and recognised a corresponding increase in goodwill of £2.3 million. 
• 
Finalisation of the terms of the defined benefit pension scheme transfer. This resulted in a reduction in the net opening surplus 
recognised by £1.1 million, with a corresponding increase to goodwill. 
• 
The finalisation of the Group’s assessment of cash-generating units and their fair values resulted in a net £0.2 million reduction in 
property, plant and equipment values.  
As a result of these changes, total goodwill recognised in respect of the acquisition has increased by £3.5 million, to £78.3 million. The balance 
sheet as at 31 December 2018 has been restated. The additional consideration was paid in cash on 14 May 2019. 
The acquisition was subject to a risk-sharing agreement in respect of 2019 UK Capacity Market payments. Following the reinstatement of the UK 
Capacity Market on 25 October 2019, and the subsequent receipt of cash in January 2020 in respect of backdated Capacity Market payment 
owed, no further amounts are due under this arrangement. 
The updated fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired are set out in the table below: 
 
Original values  
assumed at  
31 December  
2018  
£m 
Remeasurements  
£m 
Revised  
values at  
31 December  
2018  
£m 
Property, plant and equipment 
690.0 
(0.2) 
689.8 
Financial assets  
40.7 
5.4 
46.1 
Financial liabilities 
(41.0) 
(2.9) 
(43.9) 
Pension surplus 
3.8 
(1.1) 
2.7 
Provisions 
(13.5) 
– 
(13.5) 
Intangible assets 
0.6 
– 
0.6 
Deferred tax liability 
(68.5) 
0.1 
(68.4) 
Total identifiable net assets 
612.1 
1.3 
613.4 
Goodwill 
74.8 
3.5 
78.3 
Fair value of consideration payable 
686.9 
4.8 
691.7 
 
Goodwill of £78.3 million is largely reflective of the trading and operational opportunities that arise from acquiring a multi-site multi-fuel generation 
portfolio together with the assembled skilled workforce. None of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax purposes. Intangible assets reflect 
software previously recognised on the balance sheet of the acquiree. 
 
Assessment of cash-generating units and allocation of goodwill 
The Group has determined that each generation site acquired represents a cash-generating unit for impairment testing purposes. 
Goodwill has been allocated to the hydro and pumped storage cash-generating units, Lanark (£11.3 million), Galloway (£40.1 million) and 
Cruachan (£26.9 million). 
The Group conducts an annual impairment test for goodwill, as required by IFRS. The acquired goodwill has been tested for the first time as at 31 
December 2019.  
17 Adoption of new accounting standards and restatement of previously reported financial statements 
IFRS 16 – Leases 
IFRS 16 supersedes IAS 17 Leases, IFRIC 4 Determining Whether an Arrangement Contains a Lease, SIC 15 Operating Leases and SIC 27 
Evaluating the Substance of Transactions involving the legal form of a lease. 
The Group has adopted IFRS 16 from 1 January 2019 using the modified retrospective method of adoption. Under this method, the standard is 
applied retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially applying the standard recognised at the date of initial application. Consequently, 
comparative information in these Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 has not been restated. 
The new requirements have impacted the Group’s accounting for lease contracts. The Group’s lease portfolio predominantly relates to properties 
and the hire of plant and equipment at operating sites. On transition to IFRS 16 on 1 January 2019, assets controlled under lease contracts were 
brought onto the balance sheet as right-of-use assets, and the Group has recognised a corresponding liability for the amounts payable under the 
lease contracts. 
On transition, the Group elected to use the available practical expedient allowing the standard to only be applied to those contracts identified as 
leases under the previous standards. Accordingly, the definition of a lease in accordance with IAS 17 and IFRIC 4 will continue to apply to those 
leases entered into or modified before 1 January 2019. However, the Group has applied the new definition of a lease to all contracts entered into or 
modified on or after 1 January 2019. This change did not have a significant impact on the assessment of contracts that are in scope of the definition 
of a lease. 
The Group has also elected to use the recognition exemptions for lease contracts that, at the commencement date, have a lease term of 12 
months or less and lease contracts for which the underlying asset is of low value (less than £3,500). 
Under IFRS 16, right-of-use assets are tested for impairment. This has replaced the previous requirement to recognise a provision for onerous 
lease contracts. 
 
Nature of the effect of adoption of IFRS 16 
Leases previously classified as finance leases 
The Group has not changed the initial carrying amounts of recognised assets and liabilities at the date of initial application for leases previously 
classified as finance leases (i.e. the right-of-use assets and lease liabilities equal the lease assets and liabilities recognised under IAS 17). The 
requirements of IFRS 16 were applied to these leases from 1 January 2019 and the related amounts on the balance sheet reclassified from 
property, plant and equipment to right-of-use assets and borrowings to lease liabilities. 
Leases previously accounted for as operating leases 
The Group has recognised right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for those leases previously classified as operating leases, except for short-term 
leases and leases of low-value assets. Lease liabilities were recognised based on the present value of the remaining lease payments, discounted 
using the incremental borrowing rate at the date of initial application. When calculating the remaining lease payments, termination options and 
extension options have been considered in determining the lease term where deemed to be reasonably probable. The right-of-use assets are 
recognised based on the amount equal to the lease liabilities, adjusted for any related prepaid and accrued lease payments previously recognised. 
The Group also applied the following practical expedients as permitted by IFRS 16: 
• 
Use of a single discount rate to a portfolio of leases with reasonably similar characteristics; 
• 
Relied on its assessment of whether leases are onerous immediately before the date of initial application; 
• 
Applied the short-term leases exemptions to leases with a lease term that ends within 12 months at the date of initial application; 
• 
For leases of low value assets, the Group has elected to recognise a lease expense on a straight-line basis; 
• 
Excluded the initial direct costs from the measurement of the right-of-use asset at the date of initial application; and 
• 
Used hindsight in determining the lease term where the contract contains options to extend or terminate the lease. 
Based on the above, as at 1 January 2019: 
• 
Right-of-use assets of £37.1 million were recognised and presented separately in the balance sheet. This includes the lease assets 
recognised previously under finance leases of £0.6 million that were reclassified from property, plant and equipment. 
• 
Additional lease liabilities of £37.6 million were recognised separately on the balance sheet. This includes £0.5 million previously 
recognised as finance leases that were reclassified from borrowings. 
Prepayments of £0.1 million and trade and other payables of £0.7 million related to previous operating leases were derecognised. 
The effect of adopting IFRS 16 as at 1 January 2019 is as follows: 
 
Previously  
reported  
at 31 December  
2018  
£m  
 
Transition  
adjustments  
£m  
Adjusted  
balance sheet  
at 1 January  
2019  
£m 
Assets 
 
 
 
Right-of-use assets 
– 
37.1 
37.1 
Property, plant and equipment 
2,292.3 
(0.6) 
2,291.7 
Trade and other receivables 
468.8 
(0.1) 
468.7 
Liabilities 
 
 
 
Trade and other payables 
(938.5) 
0.7 
(937.8) 
IFRS 16 lease liabilities 
– 
(37.6) 
(37.6) 
Borrowings 
(608.1) 
0.5 
(607.6) 
Total adjustment on equity: 
 
 
 
Retained profits 
442.7 
– 
442.7 
 
 
 
 
 
The lease liabilities as at 1 January 2019 can be reconciled to the operating lease commitments as of 31 December 2018 as follows: 
 
£m  
Operating lease commitments as at 31 December 2018  
30.8 
Less: 
 
Effect of discounting  
(5.6) 
Commitments relating to short-term and low-value leases  
(0.8) 
Add: 
 
Additional leases identified 
9.7 
Effect of rental changes  
2.4 
Other adjustments  
1.1 
Lease liabilities as at 1 January 2019  
37.6 
 
Key judgements made in response to new reporting requirements 
Whilst judgements have been made on initial application of IFRS 16, these are not considered significant to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
Impact of IFRS 16 on comparative information 
As the Group has made the election to adopt the modified retrospective approach, no comparative information for the 31 December 2018 has been 
restated for the effects of transition to the new standard. This has led to a lack of comparability in certain areas of the financial statement for the two 
years. 
Income statement 
Under the previous accounting standards, operating leases were expensed to the income statement on a systematic basis over the lease term, in 
the year ended 31 December 2018, £6.3 million was expensed to operating expenses for the operating lease rentals. Under IFRS 16, operating 
leases are recognised on the balance sheet as right-of-use assets with a corresponding lease liability. Interest on the lease liability is expensed to 
the income statement as the discount on the lease liability unwinds. Depreciation on the right-of-use assets is charged to the income statement on 
a straight-line basis over the lease terms. Lease payments are no longer expensed to the income statement but reduce the lease liability. 
The impact of IFRS 16 on the income statement for the year to 31 December 2019 was as follows: 
 
As at  
31 December 
2019  
£m 
 
Reduction in operating expense for lease rentals paid 
7.4 
Depreciation charged on right-of-use assets 
(6.9) 
Unwind of discount on lease liability 
(1.2) 
Total impact 
(0.7) 
 
Please refer to note 11 for the impact of IFRS 16 on the net debt calculation. 
 
 
 
Restatement of previously reported financial statements 
The impact of IFRS 16 and the correction of the retranslation of US subsidiary fixed assets (described above) on the balance sheet for the year 
ended 31 December 2018 was as follows: 
 
Adjustments 
 
Previously 
 reported  
at 31 December  
2018  
£m  
Measurement  
period  
adjustments  
£m 
Retranslations  
of US subsidiary  
fixed assets  
£m 
Restated  
31 December  
2018  
£m 
Assets 
 
 
 
 
Non-current assets 
 
 
 
 
Goodwill  
244.7 
3.5 
– 
248.2 
Intangibles 
228.8 
– 
– 
228.8 
Property, plant and equipment  
2,292.3 
(0.2) 
55.5 
2,347.6 
Other fixed asset investments 
2.4 
– 
– 
2.4 
Retirement benefit surplus  
22.7 
(1.1) 
– 
21.6 
Deferred tax assets 
31.8 
– 
– 
31.8 
Derivative financial instruments  
295.2 
– 
– 
295.2 
 
3,117.9 
2.2 
55.5 
3,175.6 
Current assets 
 
 
 
 
Inventories  
222.5 
– 
– 
222.5 
ROC and LEC assets  
216.7 
– 
– 
216.7 
Trade and other receivables  
468.8 
5.4 
– 
474.2 
Derivative financial instruments  
215.4 
– 
– 
215.4 
Cash and cash equivalents  
289.0 
– 
– 
289.0 
 
1,412.4 
5.4  
1,417.8 
 
 
 
 
 
Liabilities 
 
 
 
 
Current liabilities 
 
 
 
 
Trade and other payables  
(938.5) 
(2.1) 
– 
(940.6) 
Amounts payable in respect of acquisitions  
(686.9) 
(4.8) 
– 
(691.7) 
Current tax liabilities  
(7.6) 
(0.8) 
– 
(8.4) 
Borrowings 
(0.1) 
– 
– 
(0.1) 
Derivative financial instruments  
(89.4) 
– 
– 
(89.4) 
 
(1,722.5) 
(7.7) 
– 
(1,730.2) 
 
 
 
 
 
Net current (liabilities)  
(310.1) 
(2.3) 
– 
(312.4) 
Non-current liabilities 
 
 
 
 
Borrowings  
(608.0) 
– 
– 
(608.0) 
Derivative financial instruments  
(62.0) 
– 
– 
(62.0) 
Provisions  
(50.8) 
– 
– 
(50.8) 
Deferred tax liabilities  
(316.0) 
0.1 
– 
(315.9) 
 
(1,036.8) 
0.1 
– 
(1,036.7) 
Net assets/(liabilities) 
1,771.0 
– 
55.5 
1,826.5 
 
 
 
 
 
Shareholders’ equity 
 
 
 
 
Issued equity 
47.0 
– 
– 
47.0 
Share premium 
424.7 
– 
– 
424.7 
Treasury shares 
(47.1) 
– 
– 
(47.1) 
Hedge reserve 
199.9 
– 
– 
199.9 
Cost of hedging reserve  
(8.9) 
– 
– 
(8.9) 
Other reserves 
712.7 
– 
55.5 
768.2 
Retained profits  
442.7 
– 
– 
442.7 
Total shareholders’ equity  
1,771.0 
– 
55.5 
1,826.5 
 
 
 
 
Glossary 
Adjusted EBITDA 
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation, excluding the impact of exceptional items and certain remeasurements. 
Adjusted Results 
Business performance after adjusting for material, one-off exceptional items, certain remeasurements, acquisition and restructuring costs, and debt 
restructuring costs. 
BECCS 
Bioenergy, carbon capture and storage system, with CO2 resulting from power generation captured and stored. 
Ancillary services 
Services provided to national grid used for balancing supply and demand or maintaining secure electricity supplies within acceptable limits, for 
example Black Start contracts. They are described in Connection Condition 8 of the Grid Code. 
Availability 
Average percentage of time the units were available for generation. 
BEIS 
The Government Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy, bringing together the responsibilities for business, industrial strategy, 
science, innovation, energy and climate change (formerly DECC). 
Black start 
Procedure used to restore power in the event of a total or partial shutdown of the national electricity transmission system. 
Biomass 
Organic material of non-fossil origin, including organic waste, that can be converted into bioenergy through combustion. Drax uses woody biomass 
from low grade wood, sawmill residues and forest residues, in the form of compressed wood pellets, to generate electricity at Drax Power. 
Capacity market 
Part of the Government’s Electricity Market Reform, the Capacity Market is intended to ensure security of electricity supply by providing a payment 
for reliable sources of capacity. 
Carbon price support  
A tax upon fossil fuels (including coal) used to generate electricity. It is charged as a levy on coal delivered to the power station. 
Contracts for difference (CfD) 
A mechanism to support investment in low carbon electricity generation. The CfD works by stabilising revenues for generators at a fixed price level 
known as the “strike price”. Generators will receive revenue from selling their electricity into the market as usual. However, when the market 
reference price is below the strike price they will also receive a top-up payment from suppliers for the additional amount. Conversely if the reference 
price is above the strike price, the generator must pay back the difference. 
Combined Cycle Gas Turbines (CCGT) 
A form of highly efficient energy generation technology that combines a gas-fired turbine with a steam turbine. 
EU ETS 
The EU Emissions Trading System is a mechanism introduced across the EU to reduce emissions of CO2; the scheme is capable of being 
extended to cover all greenhouse gas emissions. 
Forced outage 
Any reduction in plant availability, excluding planned outages. 
Grid charges 
Includes transmission network use of system charges (TNUoS), balancing services use of system charges (BSUoS) and distribution use of system 
charges (DUoS). 
Headroom and footroom 
Positive “reserve” (see opposite) may be termed headroom and negative reserve as footroom. 
IFRSs 
International Financial Reporting Standards. 
Inertia 
The stored energy in the large rotating mass of a generator, which assists in maintaining system stability. Wind and solar power sources have no 
inertia. 
Lost time incident rate (LTIR) 
The frequency rate is calculated on the following basis: (fatalities and lost time injuries)/hours worked x 100,000. Lost time injuries are defined as 
occurrences where the injured party is absent from work for more than 24 hours. 
Net cash/(debt) 
Comprises cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments less overdrafts and borrowings net of deferred finance costs. 
Open Cycle Gas Turbine (OCGT)  
A free-standing gas turbine, using compressed air, to generate electricity 
Planned outage 
A period during which scheduled maintenance is executed according to the plan set at the outset of the year. 
Reserve 
Generation or demand available to be dispatched by the System Operator to correct a generation/demand imbalance, normally at two or more 
minutes’ notice. 
Response 
Automatic change in generator output aimed at maintaining a system frequency of 50Hz. Frequency response is required in every second of the 
day. 
RIDDORS 
Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations. 
ROCs 
A Renewable Obligation Certificate (“ROC”) is a certificate issued to an accredited generator for electricity generated from eligible renewable 
sources. The Renewable Obligation (RO) is currently the main support scheme for renewable electricity projects in the UK. 
Summer 
The calendar months April to September. 
System operator 
National Grid Electricity Transmission. Responsible for the coordination of electricity flows onto and over the transmission system, balancing 
generation supply and user demand. 
Total recordable incident rate (TRIR) 
The frequency rate is calculated on the following basis: (fatalities, lost time injuries + worse than first aid injuries)/hours worked x 100,000. 
Value from flexibility 
A measure of the value from flexible power generation, support services provided to the power network and attractively priced coal fuels. 
Voltage control/reactive power 
Maintenance of voltage within specified limits in order to “push” power around the system to maintain safety and stability. 
Winter 
The calendar months October to March. 
 
 
