 
 
 
The Abergelli Power Gas Fired Generating Station 
Order 
 
5.2 Consultation Report Appendices – Volume B 
Appendices 4.A – 4.D 
 
Planning Act 2008 
The Infrastructure Planning  
(Applications: Prescribed Forms and Procedure) Regulations 2009 
 
PINS Reference Number:  
 
EN010069 
Document Reference: 
 
 
5.2 
Regulation Number: 
 
 
5(2)(q) & s37(3)(c) Planning Act 2008 
Author: 
 
 
 
 
Peter Brett Associates LLP 
 
Revision 
 
Date  
 
Description  
 
0 
 
 
May 2018  
 
Submission Version  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Consultation Report Appendices – Volume B 
Appendix 4: Phase 1 Statutory Consultation 
4.A 
2014 SoCC and Consultation Plan 
I 
Email and Letter to CCS enclosing draft 2014 SoCC and draft 2014 
Consultation Plan (31st July 2014) 
 
II 
Draft 2014 SoCC, draft 2014 SoCC Notice and draft 2014 Consultation Plan 
 
III 
Email to CCS notifying updates to draft 2014 SoCC (19th August 2014) 
IV 
CCS response to 2014 Draft Consultation Documents  
 
V 
Published 2014 SoCC (English) 
 
VI 
Published 2014 SoCC (Welsh) 
VII 
Published 2014 SoCC Notice in South Wales Evening Post (30th September 
2014) 
VIII 
Published 2014 SoCC Notice in South Wales Evening Post (7th October 
2014) 
 
IX 
2014 Consultation Plan 
4.B 
2014 SoCC Compliance Checklist 
4.C 
2014 PEIR NTS 
4.D 
Phase 1 S47 Statutory Consultation: Advertising 
I 
List of ‘hard to reach’ groups to whom letter was sent providing invitation to 
statutory exhibitions 
II 
Letter sent to ‘hard to reach’ groups providing invitation to statutory 
exhibitions (English) (10th October 2014) 
III 
Letter sent to ‘hard to reach’ groups providing invitation to statutory 
exhibitions (Welsh) (10th October 2014) 
IV 
Letter sent to locally elected representatives providing invitation to statutory 
exhibitions (English) (10th October 2014) 
V 
Letter sent to locally elected representatives providing invitation to statutory 
exhibitions (Welsh) (10th October 2014) 
VI 
List of locally elected representatives to whom letter was sent providing 
invitation to statutory exhibitions 
VII 
Leaflet sent to local households and businesses providing invitation to 
statutory exhibitions (English/Welsh) 
VIII 
Letter sent to shops and community venues enclosing poster advertising 
statutory exhibitions (English) 
IX 
Letter sent to shops and community venues enclosing poster advertising 
statutory exhibitions (Welsh) 
 
X 
Poster advertising statutory exhibitions (English/Welsh) 
  
 
XI 
List of shops and community venues to whom letter was sent enclosing 
poster advertising statutory exhibitions 
XII 
E-mail sent to CCS providing invitation to statutory exhibition preview (10th 
October 2014) 
 
XIII 
Photograph of poster displayed in Clydach advertising statutory exhibitions 
XIV 
Advert publicising statutory exhibitions – South Wales Evening Post article 
(14th October 2014) 
XV 
Advert publicising statutory exhibitions – South Wales Evening Post article 
(21st October 2014) 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix 4: Phase 1 Statutory Consultation 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix 4.A: Phase 1 2014 SoCC and 
Consultation Plan 
4.A I  
Email and Letter to CCS enclosing draft 2014 SoCC and draft 2014 
Consultation Plan (31st July 2014) 
 
 
 
1
Emma Knapp
From:
Dermot Scanlon
Sent:
31 July 2014 15:00
To:
Ryan.Thomas@swansea.gov.uk
Cc:
Norman Campbell (ncampbell@stagenergy.com); Reece Emmitt 
(Reece@wepr.co.uk)
Subject:
Proposed Abergelli Power Project, land adjacent to the National Grid compressor 
station at Abergelli Farm, Felindre, Swansea SA5 7NN
Attachments:
Letter CCS - draft SoCC_issued_31-07-2014.pdf; DRAFT APL Consultation Plan and 
SoCC_issued_31-07-2014.pdf
Dear Ryan – further to the above project, please find attached a covering letter together with our draft document 
containing the Statement of Community Consultation (SoCC), consultation plan and Abbreviated SoCC Notice and 
formal request for comments.  
 
Pursuant to section 47(2) of the Planning Act 2008, Abergelli Power Limited must consult the Council about what is to 
be in the SoCC and so we request that the Council provides comments on the draft SoCC and consultation plan and 
Abbreviated SoCC Notice . The deadline for comment is the end of the period of 28 days which begins with the day 
after the day on which the Council receives the attached documents. 
 
If you have any queries or would like a hard copy of the attached documents, please do not hesitate to get in touch. 
 
We would be grateful if you would confirm receipt of this email and attachments.  
 
Thanking you in anticipation. 
 
Yours sincerely  
 
Dermot Scanlon 
 
For and on behalf of Peter Brett Associates LLP 
16 Brewhouse Yard, 
Clerkenwell,  
London, EC1V 4LJ 
t     0207 566 8600 
m  07876 576287 
 
e dscanlon@peterbrett.com 
w www.peterbrett.com  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Registered Office: Caversham Bridge House, Waterman Place, Reading, Berkshire, RG1 8DN. UK. T: +44 (0)118 950 0761 F: +44 (0)118 959 7498 
Peter Brett Associates LLP is a limited liability partnership and is registered in England and Wales with registered number OC334398. 
A list of members’ names is open to inspection at our registered office. Brett Consulting Limited is wholly owned by Peter Brett Associates LLP. 
Registered number: 07765026. 
 
Roger Tym & Partners is part of Peter Brett Associates LLP.   
 
 
 
 
www.peterbrett.com 
 
 
 
 
Our ref: 
28779/DS/APL/CCS 
 
31 July 2014 
 
By email 
 
City and County of Swansea Council 
Civic Centre 
Oystermouth Road 
Swansea SA1 3SN 
 
For the attention of Ryan Thomas Esq, Development, Design & Conservation Manager 
 
 
Dear Sirs, 
 
Re: Abergelli Power Project, Abergelli Power Limited (APL) 
 
Land adjacent to the National Grid compressor station at Abergelli Farm, Felindre, Swansea 
SA5 7NN 
 
Draft Statement of Community Consultation 
 
On behalf of Abergelli Power Ltd (APL), we are pleased to attach a draft consultation plan together 
with a draft Statement of Community Consultation (SoCC) and Abbreviated SoCC Notice in respect 
of APL’s proposals to construct and operate a gas-fired power station and associated gas and 
electrical connections (the Project) on land at Abergelli Farm, Felindre, Swansea SA5 7NN.   These 
describe how APL intends to consult people living in the vicinity about a proposed application for a 
development consent order for the Project under the Planning Act 2008. 
 
For completeness, a link to the EIA Scoping Report is provided below in order to provide contextual 
project information to the City and County of Swansea Council to ensure that the Council is able to 
make an informed response with regard to the SoCC and the consultation plan.   The scoping 
report can be found on the National Infrastructure pages of the Planning Portal website following 
this link: 
 
http://infrastructure.planningportal.gov.uk/projects/wales/abergelli-power/?ipcsection=overview 
 
Pursuant to section 47(2) of the Planning Act 2008, APL must consult the Council about what is to 
be in the SoCC and it therefore requests that the Council provides comments on the attached draft 
SoCC and consultation plan.  
 
The deadline for the receipt of the Council’s response is the end of the period of 28 days beginning 
with the day after the day on which the Council receives the attached documents.  Following this 
consultation period, APL will have regard to any comments received from the Council in preparing 
the final SoCC.  The SoCC will then be published in accordance with section 47(6) of the Planning 
Act 2008 and APL will subsequently carry out consultation in accordance with the proposals set out 
in the SoCC.  
 
 
Peter Brett Associates LLP 
16 Brewhouse Yard 
Clerkenwell 
London, EC1V 4LJ 
 
T: 0207 566 8600 
E: dscanlon@peterbrett.com 
 
 
C:\Users\dscanlon\Documents\_pba\02 Jobs\APL\SoCC\Letter CCS - draft SoCC_issued_31-07-2014.docx 
2 
 
Should you require any further information, please do not hesitate to contact the undersigned. 
 
We would be grateful if you would confirm receipt of this letter and attachments.  
 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
 
 
Dermot Scanlon 
Director of Environmental Planning 
 
For and on behalf of Peter Brett Associates LLP 
16 Brewhouse Yard, Clerkenwell, London, EC1V 4LJ 
t 0207 566 8600 
m 07876 576287 
e dscanlon@peterbrett.com  
w www.peterbrett.com  
 
 
Attachments: 
 
Draft APL Consultation and Statement of Community Consultation (draft dated 31 July 2014) 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Appendix 4.A: Phase 1 2014 SoCC and 
Consultation Plan 
4.A II  Draft 2014 SoCC, draft 2014 SoCC Notice and draft 2014 Consultation 
Plan  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
ABERGELLI POWER PROJECT 
Abergelli Farm, 
Felindre, Swansea 
DRAFT S47 CONSULTATION PLAN 
(including draft SoCC) 
 
 
 
31 July 2014 
www.abergellipower.co.uk   
 
 
 
July 2014 
1 
ABERGELLI POWER PROJECT 
 
S47 LOCAL COMMUNITY CONSULTATION PLAN,  
STATEMENT OF COMMUNITY CONSULTATION 
& 
STATEMENT OF COMMUNITY CONSULTAION NOTICE 
 
DRAFT FOR STATUTORY REVIEW – 31 JULY 2014 
 
 
INTRODUCTION 
Abergelli Power Limited (“APL”) proposes to develop a gas-fired power generation 
plant and connections to the electricity and gas networks on land adjacent to the 
National Grid compressor station at Abergelli Farm, Felindre, Swansea SA5 7NN, 
located north of the M4 (Junction 46), approximately 1km southeast of Felindre, 
750m south-west of Llwyncelyn and 1.5km north of Llangyfelach. 
 
The proposed power generation plant would be capable of generating up to 299 MW 
of electricity. Using the latest and most efficient power generating technology, it will 
burn natural gas to generate electricity that is delivered into the National Grid. Due to 
its size, the Abergelli Power Project would be a Nationally Significant Infrastructure 
Project and as such it would require a Development Consent Order (DCO).  
 
STATUTORY REQUIREMENTS  
The community consultation described is carried out under section 47 of the 
Planning Act 2008 (as amended); the Act sets out requirements for formal pre-
application consultation for those applications that are considered by the Planning 
Inspectorate on behalf of the relevant Secretary of State.   
 
Section 47(1) of the Planning Act 2008 states that the applicant must prepare a 
statement setting out how it proposes to consult those people, who are living in the 
vicinity of the Project Site, about the proposed application. 
 
Furthermore, a draft Statement of Community Consultation must be consulted on 
with the City & County of Swansea Council (CCS) as the local planning authority, 
before being made available to the public for inspection and publishing a notice of 
this in local newspapers.  
 
This plan sets out how Abergelli Power Limited intends to meet these s47 
consultation requirements.   A draft of the SoCC is included at Appendix 1 and a draft 
Abbreviated Statement of Community Consultation Notice (to be published in local 
press) is included at Appendix 2.  
 
1. PURPOSE 
 
a. This document explains how Abergelli Power Limited (APL) intends to consult 
people living and working in the vicinity of the proposed gas-fired power station, 
 
 
July 2014 
2 
including its integral gas and electrical connections (the Project), on land adjacent 
to the National Grid compressor station at Abergelli Farm, Felindre, Swansea 
SA5 7NN.  The Project Site is situated north of Swansea in the City & County of 
Swansea (north of M4, Junction 46), approximately 1km southeast of Felindre, 
750m south-west of Llwyncelyn and 1.5km north of Llangyfelach.   
 
 
APL: location plan and application boundary 
 
b. 
The Project’s infrastructure that is integral to the Power Generation Plant 
includes a new purpose built access road, a gas pipeline connection and a new 
electrical connection that will facilitate the export of power to the National Grid 
for onward distribution to homes and businesses.   
 
c. 
APL has been established by Watt Power Limited to develop the Project at 
Abergelli Farm. Watt Power is seeking to develop flexible gas fired power 
generation assets at three other sites in the UK to support the UK Government’s 
drive towards a low carbon economy: one at Eye Airfield in Suffolk, one at 
 
 
July 2014 
3 
Hirwaun near Aberdare in south Wales, and a third at Rookery South Pit in 
Bedfordshire. 
 
d. 
Stag Energy provides the resources to APL through a management services 
agreement with Watt Power. Stag Energy was founded in 2002 and the 
company draws on a depth of experience with a team that has created and 
delivered more than 10,000 MW of power generation and related infrastructure 
projects across the globe, of which, 2,500 MW has been delivered in the UK. 
 
e. 
The details of the consultation methodology set out in this document aim to 
explain how APL will satisfy the community consultation requirements for an 
application for a Development Consent Order (DCO) under the Planning Act 
2008, which if granted, would enable the Project to be constructed and 
operated.  APL intends to submit an application for a DCO which will be 
examined by the Planning Inspectorate on behalf of the Secretary of State for 
Energy & Climate Change (SoS). It should be noted that the application will be 
accompanied by an Environmental Statement as the development is considered 
to be an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) Development. A Preliminary 
Environmental Information Report (PEIR) will be produced which will describe 
the preliminary findings of the assessment of the likely significant environmental 
effects of the proposed Power Generation Plant and its associated 
infrastructure. The PEIR is expected to be published and made available for 
public scrutiny and consultation in the autumn of this year. 
 
f. 
APL requests that CCS, as the planning authority, reviews this document and 
the accompanying draft Statement of Community Consultation (SoCC), and 
respond with comments within 28 days so that APL can have regard to the 
comments before APL commences its Section 47 consultation activities. Once 
any comments have been received and considered, APL will publish notice of 
the SoCC in the local media and make the SoCC available to the public for 
inspection. Copies of the SoCC will also be placed in local libraries and on the 
Abergelli Power website (www.abergellipower.co.uk).  
 
 
July 2014 
4 
 
g. 
As part of the DCO Application, APL is required to produce a Consultation 
Report explaining how the three strands of consultation required under the 
Planning Act 2008 (s42, s47 and s48) have been complied with. APL intends 
that its Consultation Report will include an explanation of how the relevant local 
authorities were consulted about the content of the draft SoCC and what the 
local authorities’ comments were.  The Consultation Report will demonstrate that 
the local authorities were given sufficient time to provide comments, explain how 
APL has had regard to those comments and provide evidence that the SoCC 
was made available to the public and notice published in the correct manner.  
 
h. 
The Consultation Report will also explain what activities were undertaken to 
enable consultation with the local community, how those consulted responded 
and how APL had regard to representations received in the development of the 
Project and the DCO Application, prior to its submission to the SoS.  
 
i. 
This document does not set out how APL intends to undertake the other strands 
of statutory consultation and publicity relating to those organisations and 
individuals defined by Sections 42 and 48 of the Planning Act 2008.  Section 42 
of the Planning Act 2008 requires consultation with certain local authorities, 
listed statutory consultees and those with an interest in the land on which the 
proposed Project will be built and operated or who may be particularly affected 
by it. Section 48 sets out publicity requirements on a UK basis.  
 
2. 
THE PROPOSED SITE 
 
a. 
The site for the proposed Power Generation Plant (which comprises part of the 
Project) is located on land located at Abergelli Farm, on pastoral fields north of 
Swansea (north of M4, Junction 46) approximately 1 km south-east of Felindre 
and 1.4km north of Llangyfelach. The western extent of the Project Site 
encompasses National Grid’s two 400kV electrical substations and Felindre 
Gas Compressor Station. In addition, areas within the site have in the past 
been subject to a variety of permissions for mineral extraction, inert landfill and 
 
 
July 2014 
5 
other commercial activities.  The site is wholly located within the principal area 
of City & County of Swansea Council. 
 
3. 
THE PROJECT 
 
The Project would comprise: 
• 
A new Power Generation Plant in the form of a Simple Cycle Gas Turbine 
(SCGT) gas fired peaking power generating station fuelled by natural gas and 
with a rated electrical output of between 50 - 299 Megawatts (MW) comprising: 
o 
The Generating Equipment including the Gas Turbine Generators and 
balance of plant, which are located within the Generating Equipment 
Site; 
o 
A new purpose built Access Road to the Generating Equipment Site. 
Two options are being considered: 
− From the north via the Rhyd-y-pandy Road and the existing 
access road west of Brynheulog past Abergelli Farm. The 
existing road would need to be extended to the Generating 
Equipment Site; and 
− From the west via the B4489, along the access road to  National 
Grid’s two 400kV electrical substations and Felindre Gas 
Compressor Station and then along a purpose built access road 
to be constructed across undeveloped land to the Generating 
Equipment Site; or 
o 
During construction, a temporary construction compound (the 
Laydown Area). 
• 
A new Gas Connection to bring natural gas to the Generating Equipment from 
the National Transmission System (NTS) which is located within the Gas 
Connection Opportunity Area; and 
• 
A new Electrical Connection to export power from the Generating Equipment to 
the National Grid Electricity Transmission System (NETS) for onward 
distribution to homes and businesses which are located within the Electrical 
Connection Opportunity Area. 
 
 
July 2014 
6 
 
The Generating Equipment, Access Road and Laydown Area are together known as 
the Power Generation Plant, and are located within the Power Generation Plant Site. 
 
The Power Generation Plant, Gas Connection, and Electrical Connection, are all 
integral to the generation of electricity and together are referred to as the ‘Project’. 
The land upon which the Project would be developed, or which would be required in 
order to facilitate the development of the Project, is referred to as the ‘Project Site’.  
 
4. 
CONSULTATION BACKGROUND 
 
a. 
APL is committed to open and responsive consultation with local communities 
and interested parties.  The programme recommended within this document 
sets out a framework for a formal and inclusive consultation process.  
 
b. 
The draft SoCC appended to this document is designed to meet the legal 
requirements set out in s47 of the Planning Act 2008 and follows a range of 
advice and guidance set out by the Planning Inspectorate and the Department 
for Communities & Local Government.  The consultation process is designed to 
enable informed, detailed and two-way communication. Through this process, 
relevant matters identified during consultation will be taken into account during 
the development of the proposal and before submission of the application for a 
DCO. 
 
c. 
Since June 2014, APL has actively communicated its intentions with elected 
representatives and directly within local communities, in order to introduce and 
discuss aspects of the Project.  These non-statutory information activities and 
other forthcoming initiatives will also be detailed in the Consultation Report.  
 
4.1 CONSULTATION AREAS 
 
a. 
APL proposes to carry out its consultation in two areas: a core consultation zone 
(CCZ) that equates to an approximate 3.5 km radius from the Project Site (see 
map overleaf), and an outer consultation zone (OCZ) that equates to a radius of 
 
 
July 2014 
7 
approximately 8km, defined by the community council areas adjacent to that of 
the CCZ. 
 
b. 
The CCZ has been designed to include the main population areas in the vicinity 
of the Project Site that have the potential to be affected by the Project’s 
construction and operation and which are expected to have the greatest interest 
in the Project. These include the villages of Clydach, Felindre, Llangyfelach and 
Tircoed, as well as other, smaller settlements.  Whilst a 3.5km radius has been 
used as a guide, where settlements fall only partially within this area discretion 
has been exercised.  
 
Proposed Core Consultation Zone – approx. 3.5km radius from the 
Project Site 
 
c. Whilst the Project Site is located directly within the CCS ward of Mawr the 
following neighbouring wards also fall within the proposed CCZ: 
• Clydach; 
 
 
July 2014 
8 
• Llangyfelach; 
• Morriston; 
• Mynyddbach; and 
• Penllergaer. 
 
d.  The CCZ would include all or parts of the following community council areas: 
• Clydach; 
• Llangyfelach; 
• Mawr; 
• Morriston;  
• Mynyddbach;  
• Penllergaer; and 
• Pontlliw & Tircoed. 
 
The CCZ will be APL’s primary focus of activity when consulting about its plans.  
 
e. Communities in the OCZ will be informed about the Project and will have the 
opportunity to comment on the plans.  The OCZ includes the main population 
area of Swansea. APL does not anticipate that the communities and businesses 
that lie within the OCZ will be significantly affected by the Project’s construction 
and operation although APL recognises that they may be interested in it.  
 
f. 
Communities outside the OCZ will be informed about the Project as the 
circulation areas and reach of the media (TV, radio, printed media) that will be 
used to communicate details of the Project and the consultation activities are far 
greater than the boundaries of the OCZ. 
 
 
 
 
July 2014 
9 
5. INTRODUCTORY 
INFORMATION 
PERIOD 
/ 
NON-STATUTORY 
CONSULTATION 
 
As an introduction to the Project, APL undertook an introductory information 
exercise/non-statutory consultation in June 2014. This included:  
 
a. 
Discussions with officers and councillors at CCS about the Project and the 
proposed non-statutory consultation exercise including exhibition venues and 
representatives who should be invited. 
 
b. 
As every home and business in the CCZ is represented by a CCS county 
councilor and a community council, APL communicated its plans to the local 
councils and community council, as well as the local MP Martin Caton, local AM 
Edwina Hart and regional AMs. APL has an ongoing programme of 
engagement with the AMs and MP in question to discuss the Project and 
answer any questions they may have.  
 
c. 
A Project website was launched to coincide with the Project being introduced to 
the local community. The website (www.abergellipower.co.uk) provides 
information on the Project and enables people to ask questions and provide 
feedback to APL about the Project.  The website is bilingual, in both English 
and Welsh. It carries the latest information about the Project (technical, 
environmental and communications), contact details and a mechanism to 
enable people to ask questions and provide feedback.   
 
d. 
A letter of introduction about the Project was sent to approximately 5,500 
households and businesses in the immediate vicinity of the Project Site. The 
letter contained details about the Project and an invitation to attend information 
exhibitions near the Project Site. The letter was sent and distributed by Royal 
Mail a week prior to the first exhibition date, and was produced in both English 
and Welsh. 
 
 
 
July 2014 
10 
e. 
Exhibitions were held at the following locations to give local people the 
maximum opportunity to attend:  
 
 
Thursday, June 19th - Forge Fach Community Resource Centre, Clydach 
(3.00pm till 7.00pm); 
 
Friday, June 20th - Felindre Welfare Hall, Felindre (3.00pm till 7.00pm); 
and 
 
Saturday, June 21st - Tircoed Village Hall, Tircoed (10.00am till 1.00pm) 
 
f. 
Exhibition locations were chosen because they were considered convenient to 
those communities within the CCZ that surround the Project Site. These events 
featured relevant information that was known at the time in a variety of formats 
(display panels, maps, plans, leaflet etc) about the proposal, in both English 
and Welsh.  Members of the APL project team were available to discuss the 
proposal, answer questions and to receive feedback from members of the 
public. Feedback was sought during the non-statutory consultation /  
information period as to whether APL should do anything differently during the 
statutory consultation process. 
 
g. 
APL used venues that met Disability Discrimination Act 1995 requirements and 
upon a reasonable and timely request had provisions in place for those with 
special requirements who were unable to attend or access a consultation event 
(for example, private transport to the exhibition event).  
 
h. 
More than 90 people attended the exhibitions, including local councillors.  The 
local media (print, TV, radio and social media) published news reports about 
the exhibitions in advance of them being held.  
 
i. 
APL issued news releases before the exhibitions were held, and these were 
posted on the APL website.  The news releases were issued to the local media 
and reports were published in the media as a result.  
 
 
July 2014 
11 
 
j. 
APL advertised the informal information exhibitions via a display advertisement 
in the South Wales Evening Post newspaper, published on June12th 2014.  
 
k. 
A leaflet about the Project was produced for people who attended the 
exhibition, and additional copies were provided to local councillors and others 
for wider dissemination. The leaflet contained details of the Project, the 
consultation process, an indicative timeframe for the Project’s development and 
also the Abergelli Power website address and contact details.  In addition, a 
feedback form was available for people to fill in on the day or to return via 
Freepost to APL.  
 
l. 
Posters advertising the consultation events were displayed at community 
venues within the CCZ, for example local shops, post offices and doctors’ 
surgeries. 
 
m. 
APL will consider the provision, upon request, of written materials about the 
Project in different formats (for example, large print or braille). 
 
n. 
Comments and queries via telephone (as well as via post, email or fax) were 
accepted following the launch of the non-statutory period of consultation.  
 
o. 
In summary, the Project has been introduced to the local community which is 
now broadly aware of its key points.  The proposed statutory consultation 
process detailed in section 6.0 will therefore build upon this awareness with a 
view to gaining formal feedback from local people and interested stakeholders 
before the application for the DCO is submitted. 
 
6. STATUTORY CONSULTATION METHODOLOGY & ACCESSIBILITY 
Following the introductory information period described in section 5.0, the 
consultation programme will be conducted according to the following methodology: 
 
 
 
July 2014 
12 
a. 
APL will consult with officers at CCS on the content of this consultation plan and 
the draft SoCC. 
 
b. 
APL will begin statutory consultation engagement with elected members of 
CCS, community councils, the local MP and AMs whose constituency covers the 
CCZ, as it develops its plans. 
 
c. 
APL will use elected members of CCS and community councils as 
communication channels, via meetings and correspondence, to share 
information and seek community feedback during the period of statutory 
consultation.   
 
d. 
Exhibitions/consultation events will be held at the following locations: 
 
Forge Fach Resource Centre, Clydach; 
 
Felindre Welfare Hall; 
 
Tircoed Village Hall; and   
 
Llangyfelach Village Hall. 
 
e. 
After consideration of the outcomes of the non-statutory consultation process 
these are considered the most convenient to those communities within the CCZ 
that surround the Project Site. It also takes into account feedback received from 
local people and community councils in the area regarding the locations of 
exhibitions. These events will feature relevant information in a variety of formats 
(display panels, plans, leaflet etc) about the Project, in both English and Welsh. 
The Preliminary Environmental Impact Report (PEIR) will also be made 
available for review. Members of the APL project team will be available to 
discuss the Project, answer questions and to receive feedback from members of 
the public. 
 
f. 
In order to ensure that people have the maximum opportunity to attend the 
exhibitions, APL will arrange for them to be held at convenient times. An event 
will be held on a Saturday for those unable to visit during the working week. 
 
 
July 2014 
13 
 
g. 
APL will use venues that meet Disability Discrimination Act 1995 requirements 
and upon a reasonable and timely request will make provision for those with 
special requirements who are unable to attend or access a consultation event 
(for example, private transport to a consultation event).  
 
h. 
In consultation with CCS, APL will share information about the Project with 
those “hard to reach groups” living and working within the CCZ. These groups 
are likely to be accessed through informal and formal channels - via council 
services and relevant specialist organisations (for example the local branches of 
the Women’s Institute and local business representative groups such as the 
South Wales Chamber of Commerce).   
 
i. 
Posters in colleges, schools, youth clubs and awareness via social media may 
be used to reach the younger members of the community, whilst consideration 
will be given to presentations at local schools and colleges about the Project. 
Local schools and colleges will be notified of the consultation events. 
 
j. 
APL will advertise the consultation events via the Swansea-based South Wales 
Evening Post, for two weeks prior to the first event taking place.  In addition APL 
will announce via the issue of one or more news releases to local and regional 
news publications, the local radio and TV stations (and via online media) that 
the events are taking place.  The newspaper advertisements (and media 
coverage), will reach the CCZ, the OCZ and further afield. The content will give 
information on APL’s proposals and details of the consultation events, including 
contact information.   
 
k. 
A leaflet or letter about the Project and the consultation programme will be 
distributed by Royal Mail (and other means as required) to households, 
businesses and institutions in the CCZ at least one week in advance of the first 
consultation event, informing them of the consultation events taking place. The 
leaflet or letter will include details of the Project, the location and dates of the 
Comment [DAS1]: CCS to advise 
 
 
July 2014 
14 
consultation events, the APL website address. This letter will be produced in 
both English and Welsh.    
 
l. 
Posters advertising the consultation events will be displayed at community 
venues within the CCZ and the OCZ, for example local libraries, local shops and 
post offices, local schools and colleges and doctors’ surgeries. 
 
m. APL will inform those community councils within the OCZ about the Project and 
the exhibition/consultation event via letter. 
 
n. 
The APL team will actively and reactively meet with individuals and interested 
groups in the local area as part of the formal consultation period to answer 
questions and provide updates about the Project.  
 
o. 
The APL website will carry the latest information about the Project (technical, 
environmental and communications), contact details and a mechanism to enable 
people to ask questions and provide feedback.   
 
p. 
Comments and queries via telephone (as well as via post, email or fax) will be 
considered and addressed within the scheme where possible, as well as 
comments noted.  Comments will be accepted for a period of 35 days following 
the launch of the statutory period of consultation. These will be collated, 
considered and included in the Consultation Report that will accompany the 
DCO Application.   
 
q. 
APL may choose to undertake additional consultation and information activities. 
In addition, APL will consider the provision, upon request, of written materials 
about the Project in different formats (for example, large print or braille). 
 
r. 
All statutory and non-statutory consultation activities and efforts will be detailed 
in the Consultation Report which will accompany the DCO Application. This will 
 
 
July 2014 
15 
detail the consultation activities, the feedback received and APL’s response to 
the issues that are raised during the process. 
 
ENDS 
 
 
 
 
July 2014 
16 
APPENDIX 1 
 
DRAFT: Statement of Community Consultation  
(To be placed in local libraries, council offices and on the Abergelli Power website.   
 
The local press will publish an abbreviated version of the SoCC, subject to the 
agreement of CCS, referred to as the ‘SoCC Notice’, a draft of which is included at 
Appendix 2.) 
 
This Statement of Community Consultation is published in connection with a 
proposed gas-fired power station, including its integral gas and electrical 
connections, at Abergelli Farm (the Project). It explains how individuals living and 
working locally, as well as other interests such as local businesses and local 
civic/community organisations, can comment on the proposals to construct and 
operate the Project.  The Project Site is situated north of Swansea in the City & 
County of Swansea (north of M4, Junction 46), approximately 1km southeast of 
Felindre, 750m south-west of Llwyncelyn and 1.5km north of Llangyfelach.   
 
APL: location plan and application boundary 
 
Comment [DAS2]: CCS to advise if 
there are any other NSIPs in the area that 
are at the pre-submission stage that we 
should be expressly considering dovetailing 
with. AN16 states "If relevant, the SOCC 
should also take account of any other major 
consultation exercises being undertaken in 
the area, for example in relation to planning 
applications or development plans 
proceeding under different legislation. The 
aim should be to achieve a programme that 
minimises confusion and possible 
“consultation fatigue”. 
 
 
July 2014 
17 
The Project is being promoted by Abergelli Power Limited (APL), a company 
established by Watt Power Limited. Watt Power is seeking to develop gas fired 
power stations at Abergelli Farm and elsewhere in the UK to support the UK 
Government’s drive to a low carbon economy. 
  
APL has consulted City & County of Swansea Council as the local planning authority 
about the content of this Statement of Community Consultation and has had regard 
to their responses.   
 
The capacity of the proposed Project will be in excess of 50 MW of electricity. As 
such, it is classified as a Nationally Significant Infrastructure Project (NSIP) under 
the Planning Act 2008. This requires a Development Consent Order (DCO) to build 
and operate, granted by the Secretary of State for Energy & Climate Change. 
 
The Statement of Community Consultation is part of a consultation process that APL 
is carrying out before it makes a formal application to the Secretary of State for a 
DCO. 
 
A consultation/communication plan has previously been developed and is available 
from APL or via its website www.abergellipower.co.uk. 
 
This Statement explains: 
• 
Some details about the Project; 
• 
How APL is publishing preliminary environmental information about the Project; 
• 
How APL is going to consult local people and communities about the Project 
and what activities will be undertaken to give them access to information about 
the proposal and help them to understand what particular aspects of the Project 
may mean to them, enabling them to provide informed feedback; 
• 
How people can become involved in shaping the Project before a DCO 
Application is submitted by putting forward their views to influence the Project, 
particularly regarding specific options under consideration; and 
 
 
July 2014 
18 
• 
How people can provide feedback to APL from consultation activities and 
ensure that they are informed about the Project.  
 
The Project 
The key details of the proposed Project are: 
• 
The construction of a Power Generation Plant with a rated electrical output of 
between 50 - 299 MW of electricity. The plant will have up to 5 stacks each up to 
xxm in height. The plant will have a dedicated access road. 
• 
The site for the Power Generation Plant covers an area of approximately xxxha;  
• 
The Power Generation Plant will produce electricity from natural gas; 
• 
Construction of a new underground or overhead electrical connection  (up to xxx 
in length) to the National Grid and the construction of a new  underground 
pipeline (up to xxx m in length) to bring natural gas to the power generating 
plant from the National Transmission System;  
• 
Creation of approximately 150 jobs during a construction period lasting two 
years and 15 permanent jobs once commercial operations have begun;    
• 
It responds to the UK Government’s need for new gas generation in order to 
underpin the country’s energy security and its transition to a low-carbon 
economy; 
• 
The station would emit about 50% less carbon dioxide (CO2) than an equivalent 
sized coal-fired power plant, and is designed to operate flexibly so that it can 
respond quickly and efficiently to short-term variation in customer demand and 
intermittent output from wind power generation; and 
• 
It is acknowledged that during construction and operation there is potential for 
adverse effects on some local communities and the environment, for example 
noise and traffic during the construction phase and the visual effects of the of 
the new stacks.  An Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) is being 
undertaken to understand and seek to minimise these and other potential effects 
of the Project’s construction and operation. More information on this process is 
provided below. The EIA process is also considering the potential positive 
effects of the operation of the Project. 
Comment [DAS3]: Stack heights and 
other details to be confirmed 
 
 
July 2014 
19 
 
The Planning Process 
DCO applications for NSIPs are submitted to the Planning Inspectorate which will 
process and examine the application before making a recommendation to the 
relevant Secretary of State. The final decision on the application is made by the 
Secretary of State and if it is successful, a DCO will be made.  
 
The Government's policies in relation to NSIPs are set out in National Policy 
Statements (NPSs). The Project has been developed with regard to the relevant 
Energy NPSs, in particular EN-1 (Energy), EN-2 (Fossil Fuel Electricity Generating 
Infrastructure) and EN-5 (Electricity Networks Infrastructure).  EN-1 states that "gas 
will continue to play an important role in the electricity sector- providing vital flexibility 
to support an increasing amount of low-carbon generation and to maintain security of 
supply."   
 
When determining a DCO Application, the Secretary of State must have regard to 
the relevant NPSs and must make a decision in accordance with these unless 
she/he is satisfied that the adverse impact of the Project would outweigh its benefits.  
  
When considering whether to accept an application for examination, the Planning 
Inspectorate must be satisfied that the applicant has undertaken effective pre-
application consultation.  Pre-application consultation is essential in allowing APL to 
understand and seek to minimise the effects of the Project and to allow a thorough 
examination by the Planning Inspectorate. APL is required to submit a Consultation 
Report with its application for a DCO.  This report will include details of the local 
community feedback received, explain how APL has had regard to the feedback and 
will detail how APL has complied with the consultation requirements of the Planning 
Act 2008. 
 
The community consultation described in this statement is carried out under Section 
47 of the Planning Act 2008. It is in addition to consultation that will be carried out 
with specific statutory consultees (such as statutory nature conservation bodies) and 
those with relevant interests in land (including owners and occupiers within the 
 
 
July 2014 
20 
Project boundary) under Section 42 of the Planning Act 2008. It is also in addition to 
wider publication of the proposed Project under Section 48 of the Planning Act 2008.  
 
Information on the planning process and the NPSs can be found at:  
www.planningportal.gov.uk/planning/planninginspectorate 
www.decc.gov.uk/en/content/cms/meeting_energy/consents_planning/nps_en_infra/
nps_en_infra.aspx 
 
Environmental Information & Impacts 
The Project will be designed and developed to meet or exceed current quality, safety 
and environmental standards and efforts will be made to minimise its impact on the 
local environment, both during its construction and its operation.  The extent and 
scale of the Project and APL’s proposals to mitigate its impacts will be amongst the 
issues considered by the Planning Inspectorate on behalf of the Secretary of State. 
 
Because of the nature and size of the Project, APL is undertaking an EIA. Therefore, 
the Project is classed as an EIA development. The EIA considers the potential 
impacts of the Project including: air quality; noise and vibration; ecology; water 
quality and resources; geology, ground conditions and agriculture; landscape and 
visual; traffic, transport and access; cultural heritage and archeology; and socio-
economics.  
 
APL has consulted with various statutory bodies concerning the scope of the EIA, 
including local authorities, Natural Resources Wales (NRW), the South Wales Trunk 
Road Agency, and utility providers. A request for a Scoping Opinion was submitted 
to the Planning Inspectorate on June 25th 2014, accompanied by a Scoping Report. 
The Scoping Report outlines which environmental topics will be covered by the EIA 
and how the assessments will be undertaken. The Planning Inspectorate [issued] its 
formal Scoping Opinion on [7 August 2014].  
 
 
 
 
July 2014 
21 
 
All 
documents 
are 
available 
on 
the 
Abergelli 
Power 
website 
(www.abergellipower.co.uk) and via the dedicated section on the Planning Portal 
website:  
http://infrastructure.planningportal.gov.uk/projects/wales/abergelli-power/ 
 
As part of the pre-application consultation materials on the proposed Project, APL 
will publish a Preliminary Environmental Information Report (PEIR) and an 
associated non-technical summary (NTS).  The PEIR will present the information 
gathered to date and provides the results of APL’s preliminary assessments as to the 
likely significant environmental effects.  It will not set out the final findings but will 
include information on provisional mitigation measures.  During consultation, APL will 
make available details on landscaping proposals and other measures to mitigate the 
Project’s impact.  APL will provide copies of the PEIR and its associated NTS to City 
& County of Swansea Council as the local planning authority. Both documents will 
also be made available at: Swansea Central Library; local libraries; at public 
exhibitions held as part of the consultation process and on the APL website.  
 
When the EIA process is complete and APL submits its application for a DCO, it will 
be accompanied by an Environmental Statement. This will report on the likely 
significant environmental effects of the Project identified in the EIA and will explain 
the mitigation measures to avoid or reduce these.  
 
Public Consultation 
The views of the local community about the Project are important.  In June 2014, 
APL carried out a non-statutory consultation process sharing its initial plans with the 
public at three exhibitions held in Clydach, Felindre and Tircoed.  At the exhibitions 
and since, APL has received and responded to comments on the Project and its 
impact on the environment, local communities and the local economy.    
 
a. 
What are we now consulting on and when? 
In the statutory phase of consultation commencing in Autumn 2014, APL will seek 
views on the overall scope and preliminary environmental effects of the Project, 
 
 
July 2014 
22 
including the option(s) for the proposed new access road and the electrical and gas 
connections. Only after responses have been considered will the design be finalised 
and the application for a DCO be submitted.  
 
Responses will be invited on: 
 
• 
The layout of the Power Generation Plant within the Project Site; 
• 
Route option(s) for the new access road and gas and electrical connections 
(as appropriate); and 
• 
Findings of the preliminary assessment for construction and operational 
phases of the project, as set out in the PEIR. 
 
The consultation explained in this Statement will run for 35 days ending on xxxx 
2014. Comments about the Project must be received by APL by this date.   
 
b. 
Who will we consult with? 
The Planning Act 2008 states that those ‘living in the vicinity of the land’ should be 
consulted.  We have discussed the scope of the consultation with City & County of 
Swansea as the local planning authority, and have identified and agreed the 
Consultation Zones that form the basis of the community consultation.  
 
APL will carry out its consultation activities in two areas: a Core Consultation Zone 
(CCZ) that equates to a 3.5km radius from the Project Site and an Outer 
Consultation Zone (OCZ) that equates to a radius of approximately 8km.   
 
The CCZ has been designed to include the main population areas in the vicinity of 
the Project Site that have the potential to be impacted by the Project and expected to 
have the greatest interest in the Project   The zone includes the villages of Clydach, 
Felindre, Llangyfelach and Tircoed, and all or parts of the following community 
council areas: Clydach, Llangyfelach, Mawr, Morriston, Mynyddbach, Penllergaer 
and Pontlliw & Tircoed. 
 
 
 
July 2014 
23 
 
Proposed Core Communication Zone – approx. 3.5 km radius from the 
Project Site 
 
Communities within the OCZ will be informed about the Project (via newspaper 
advertisements, posters, media coverage and contact with local elected members 
and community councils in the OCZ and other relevant local organisations) and 
given the opportunity to comment on the plans.  The outer zone includes the main 
population area of the city of Swansea.   
 
APL does not anticipate that the communities and businesses that lie within the OCZ 
will be significantly impacted by the Project’s construction and operation although 
APL recognises that they may be interested in it.  Outside the two zones, there may 
well be others interested in APL’s plans. They will also be reached through 
local/regional newspaper advertising and media coverage (print, broadcast and 
social media). Feedback that is received within the consultation period will be 
considered. 
 
 
 
 
July 2014 
24 
 
c. 
 How will we consult?  
APL will seek and receive people’s views through a number of activities: 
• 
Public exhibitions will be held at Clydach, Felindre, Llangyfelach and Tircoed 
within the CCZ. Feedback forms, allowing people to provide their views on the 
Project, will be available at these exhibitions; 
• 
A leaflet or letter will be delivered to households, businesses and institutions in 
the CCZ, and made available at local council offices, local libraries and other 
venues as appropriate. The leaflet will also be distributed to those groups that 
are defined as “hard to reach” (for example, the elderly, the young and minority 
groups). It will give background on the Project, the consultation process 
(including exhibitions) and how individuals can engage in it. The leaflet will be 
made available at libraries and council offices in the OCZ; 
• 
Copies of the leaflet, the SoCC, the Preliminary Environmental Information 
Report and its Non-Technical Summary as well as other information about the 
Project will be available at the following libraries: 
 
Swansea Central Library 
Civic Centre, Oystermouth Road, Swansea SA1 
3SN 
Mon: CLOSED 
Tue – Fri:8.30am – 8.00pm 
Wed:8.30am – 8.00pm 
Thur:8.30am – 8.00pm 
Fri:8.30am – 8.00pm 
Sat/Sun:10.00am – 4.00pm 
Clydach Library 
High Street, Clydach, Swansea SA6 5LN 
Mon – Thur:9.30am - 5.30pm 
Fri:9.30am - 6.30pm 
Sat:9.30am - 4.30pm 
Sun: CLOSED 
Gorseinon Library 
15 West Street, Gorseinon, Swansea SA4 4AA 
Mon – Thur: 9.00am - 
6.00pm 
Fri:9.00am - 7.00pm 
Sat:9.00am - 5.00pm 
Sun: CLOSED 
Morriston  Library 
Treharne Road, Morriston, Swansea SA6 7AA 
Mon – Fri:9.00am - 6.00pm 
Sat:9.00am - 5.00pm 
Sun: CLOSED 
 
 
July 2014 
25 
Pontarddulais Library 
St Michael’s Avenue, Pontarddulais, Swansea SA4 
8TE 
Mon – Thur:9.00am – 1.00pm 
and  2.00pm – 5.00pm  
Fri: 9.00am – 1.00pm and  
2.00pm – 6.00pm 
Sat:9.00am - 1.00pm 
Sun: CLOSED 
 
 
• 
The leaflet and other information about the Project can be made available in 
other formats (eg large print or braille) and languages upon request; 
• 
A website (www.abergellipower.co.uk) provides information on the Project as 
well as access to documents, and provide visitors the opportunity to ask 
questions or make comments online; 
• 
An e-mail address to which individuals can write (provided at the end of this 
document); 
• 
A Freepost mailbox to which people can send questions or comments (provided 
at the end of this document); 
• 
APL will also notify the local community about the Project and the consultation 
events via posters in the local community, newspaper advertisements and 
media coverage;  
• 
In addition, APL will contact a broad spectrum of local stakeholders. These will 
include elected representatives, local community, special interest groups 
(including those “hard to reach groups” such as the young, elderly and the 
disabled), and local business groups. APL will provide them with information on 
the Project and undertake briefings where appropriate. 
 
Individuals and organisations wishing to respond should include their name and an 
address where correspondence about the response can be sent. Responses may be 
made public, subject to data protection laws. 
 
Comments made at any stage of the consultation process will be recorded and 
carefully considered by APL as part of the process of preparing the final proposals 
for its application to the Planning Inspectorate.  
 
 
 
July 2014 
26 
KEY DATES 
ACTIVITY 
TBC 
Statement of Community Consultation published 
TBC 
Consultation period starts 
TBC 
PUBLIC EXHIBITIONS 
 
Forge Fach Resource Centre, Hebron Road, Clydach, 
Swansea, SA6 5EJ 
 
Felindre Welfare Hall, Felindre, Swansea, SA5 7NA 
 
Tircoed Village Hall, Y Cyswllt, Tircoed SA4 9QZ 
 
Llangyfelach Village Hall, Heol Pentrefelin Road, 
Llangyfelach, Swansea, SA5 7JD 
TBC 
Consultation period closes 
 
DCO Application submitted 
 
 
Contact details 
APL welcomes queries and comments: 
Website:  
www.abergellipower.co.uk 
Email:  
info@abergellipower.co.uk 
Post: 
Freepost RTEY-JYYB-ERSR, Abergelli Power Ltd, 49 York Place, 
Edinburgh EH1 3JD 
Phone: 
0131 550 3380 
 
 
 
 
 
July 2014 
27 
Appendix 2 
 
DRAFT: Abbreviated Statement of Community Consultation Notice 
[to be published in local press] 
 
Abergelli Power Ltd (APL) proposes to construct and operate a gas-fired power generation 
plant and connections to the gas and electricity networks in land adjacent to the National 
Grid compressor station at Abergelli Farm, Felindre, Swansea SA5 7NN.  The proposed site 
is situated north of Swansea in the City & County of Swansea (north of M4, Junction 46), 
approximately 1km southeast of Felindre, 750m south-west of Llwyncelyn and 1.5km north 
of Llangyfelach.   
 
The project includes a power generation plant, a gas connection and an electrical 
connection that would connect the power generation plant to the existing nearby 
transmission networks.  The power generation plant would have rated electrical output of 
between 50 and 299 MW of electricity.  Subject to public consultation, planning and 
financing, it could enter commercial operation in 2019.  
 
The Project is classified as a Nationally Significant Infrastructure Project under the Planning 
Act 2008 which means a Development Consent Order (DCO) is required to build, operate 
and maintain it.   
 
Due to the nature and size of the Project, APL is undertaking an Environmental Impact 
Assessment (EIA). Therefore the Project is classified as EIA development.  The EIA will 
consider the potential impacts, both positive and negative, of the Project on topics including 
air and water quality, noise, landscape and visual impact, traffic, local ecology, archaeology 
and heritage, and socio-economics. 
 
The DCO application will be processed and examined by the Planning Inspectorate who will 
make a recommendation to the Secretary of State for Energy and Climate Change. The final 
decision on the application is made by the Secretary of State. 
 
Consultation with local people, businesses, and other organisations is an essential part of 
the DCO application process and will help to influence the final design of the project.   Only 
after all inputs have been considered will designs be finalised and the application for a DCO 
be submitted. 
 
The Government’s policies in relation to Nationally Significant Infrastructure Projects are set 
out in National Policy Statements (NPSs).  NPS EN-1 (Energy) states that "gas will continue 
to play an important role in the electricity sector- providing vital flexibility to support an 
increasing amount of low-carbon generation and to maintain security of supply."  The need 
for the Project is established through NPSs and is therefore not a topic of consultation. 
 
APL has prepared a statement setting out how it proposes to consult people living and 
working in the vicinity of the site about the proposed DCO application; this is the Statement 
of Community Consultation.  It is available for inspection at www.abergellipower.co.uk, at 
council offices (TBA with contact details) and at these local libraries (opening times vary).  
 
 
 
 
 
 
July 2014 
28 
Swansea Central Library 
Civic Centre, Oystermouth Road, Swansea SA1 3SN 
Mon: CLOSED 
Tue – Fri:8.30am – 8.00pm 
Wed:8.30am – 8.00pm 
Thur:8.30am – 8.00pm 
Fri:8.30am – 8.00pm 
Sat/Sun:10.00am – 4.00pm 
Clydach Library 
High Street, Clydach, Swansea SA6 5LN 
Mon – Thur:9.30am - 5.30pm 
Fri:9.30am - 6.30pm 
Sat:9.30am - 4.30pm 
Sun: CLOSED 
Gorseinon Library 
15 West Street, Gorseinon, Swansea SA4 4AA 
Mon – Thur: 9.00am - 6.00pm 
Fri:9.00am - 7.00pm 
Sat:9.00am - 5.00pm 
Sun: CLOSED 
Morriston  Library 
Treharne Road, Morriston, Swansea SA6 7AA 
Mon – Fri:9.00am - 6.00pm 
Sat:9.00am - 5.00pm 
Sun: CLOSED 
Pontarddulais Library 
St Michael’s Avenue, Pontarddulais, Swansea SA4 8TE 
Mon – Thur:9.00am – 1.00pm and  
2.00pm – 5.00pm  
Fri: 9.00am – 1.00pm and  2.00pm – 
6.00pm 
Sat:9.00am - 1.00pm 
Sun: CLOSED 
 
Households and businesses within an approximate 3.5km radius of the power generation 
plant site will receive a leaflet about the proposal on or around [DATE TBC]. 
 
Exhibitions about the project will be held at these locations:  
Dates & times TBC 
Forge Fach Resource Centre, Hebron Road, Clydach, Swansea, 
SA6 5EJ 
 
Felindre Welfare Hall, Felindre, Swansea, SA5 7NA 
 
Tircoed Village Hall, Y Cyswllt, Tircoed SA4 9QZ 
 
Llangyfelach Village Hall, Heol Pentrefelin Road, Llangyfelach, 
Swansea, SA5 7JD 
 
From [DATE TBC], information about the proposed Project, including a leaflet about the 
proposal, a Preliminary Environmental Information Report and a non-technical summary 
(which contain a preliminary assessment of the effects of the Project) will be made available 
for inspection at the same locations and on the APL website.  
 
The consultation period will be 35 days long ending on xx November 2014, and we would 
welcome your views on or before this date.  Please include your name and an address.  
Responses may be made public, subject to data protection laws.  
 
Website: www.abergellipower.co.uk  Email: info@abergellipower.co.uk 
Tel: 0131 550 3380 
Freepost: RTE-Y-JYYB-ERST, Abergelli Power Ltd, 49 York Place, Edinburgh EH1 3JD 
 
 
 
  
Appendix 4.A: Phase 1 2014 SoCC and 
Consultation Plan 
4.A III  Email to CCS notifying updates to draft 2014 SoCC (19th August 2014) 
 
 
1
Emma Knapp
From:
Dermot Scanlon
Sent:
19 August 2014 14:13
To:
Ryan.Thomas@swansea.gov.uk
Cc:
Norman Campbell (ncampbell@stagenergy.com); Reece Emmitt 
(Reece@wepr.co.uk); Adam Heffill (AHeffill@stagenergy.com)
Subject:
Proposed Abergelli Power Project, land adjacent to the National Grid compressor 
station at Abergelli Farm, Felindre, Swansea SA5 7NN
Attachments:
APL Meeting CCS_v01_draft_issued.pdf
Dear Ryan – further to the above project, we write to provide an update following our meeting and submission of a 
draft Statement of Community Consultation (SoCC) last month:  
 
1. Gas and electrical connections – we have undertaken further design work in relation to the proposed gas 
and electrical connections to the Generating Equipment such that the need for route options has now been 
removed. Our formal public consultation will therefore include only the preferred route alignments for both the 
gas and electrical connections.   For clarity, two route options for the proposed new access road are still 
under consideration and these will be presented as part of our formal consultation.  This alters the wording 
set out in bullet 2, p22 of the draft SoCC. 
 
2. Deposit locations for consultation materials - at our meeting we noted the lack of suitable, secure 
locations within the Core Consultation Zone (CCZ) to deposit and display material for public inspection.  We 
also discussed possible options although have not identified anything further.   The table contained in the 
draft SoCC pp24-25 sets out the proposed deposit locations and we would be grateful if you would confirm 
that these are acceptable, noting that the locations are outside of the CCZ.  
  
3. Consultation period – we anticipate that the formal public consultation will take place for a 35 day period 
from mid-October through to mid-November 2014.   The provisional dates for our public exhibitions are 22-25 
October 2014 which avoid the half term school holiday and include one exhibition on a Saturday.  The table 
contained in the draft SoCC p26 will be updated as a result. 
 
4. Planning applications on proposal site – para 3.69 of the PINS Scoping Opinion (published 1 August 
2014) sets out the details of three developments for inclusion in the cumulative assessment.  We would be 
grateful for confirmation of any further planning applications or developments on or around the proposed DCO 
application site which need to be included in our assessment work.  
 
Also attached is a brief note of our meeting last month.  Grateful if you would advise if you have any comments. 
 
Please do not hesitate to get in touch if you have any queries. 
 
With thanks and best wishes 
 
Dermot Scanlon 
 
For and on behalf of Peter Brett Associates LLP 
16 Brewhouse Yard, 
Clerkenwell,  
London, EC1V 4LJ 
t     0207 566 8600 
m  07876 576287 
 
e dscanlon@peterbrett.com 
w www.peterbrett.com  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Appendix 4.A: Phase 1 2014 SoCC and 
Consultation Plan 
4.A IV  CCS response to 2014 Draft Consultation Documents  
 
1
Jonathan Sebbage
From:
Thomas, Ryan <Ryan.Thomas@swansea.gov.uk>
Sent:
27 August 2014 17:09
To:
Dermot Scanlon
Cc:
ncampbell@stagenergy.com; Reece@wepr.co.uk
Subject:
RE: Proposed Abergelli Power Project, land adjacent to the National Grid 
compressor station at Abergelli Farm, Felindre, Swansea SA5 7NN
Dermot, 
 
I refer to your consultation pursuant to section 47 (2) of the Planning Act 2008 regarding the 
above development. 
 
I can confirm that I have consulted relevant internal Departments and Ward members regarding 
the content of the attached documentation and that the Authority has no further comment to make 
other than to recommend that as part of the consultation exercise, in addition to those sites 
identified at Page 24 and 28 of the Draft SoCC and Abbreviated SoCC Notice, documentation 
also be deposited at the City & County of Swansea Council Offices, Penllergaer, Swansea, SA4 
9GJ. 
 
I appreciate that concern has been expressed that there appeared to be no suitable, secure 
locations open to inspect the application documents within the CCZ, and whilst this site is not 
generally open to the public, arrangements have been made to allow the documentation to be 
inspected once deposited at these offices during normal working hours (8.30-5.00pm Monday-
Thursday, 8.30-4.30 Friday).  
 
You have also requested details on “hard to reach groups” and I am in the process of reviewing 
our current LDP database to establish those that fall within the CCZ and will advise accordingly. In 
addition you have also requested details of any other NSIP’s in the area that are at the pre-
submission stage and any other major consultation exercises being undertaken in the area in 
relation to planning applications and/or the development plan. In this respect whilst there are a 
number of planning applications within the vicinity of the site currently under consideration for 
example, for solar park developments, the LDP will not be subject to any further consultation until 
January 2015 and I am not aware of any other major land use related consultation exercises that 
would conflict with dates you have indicated. 
 
Should you require any further clarification or wish to discuss the matter in further detail, however, 
please don’t hesitate to contact me directly. 
 
Regards, 
 
Ryan Thomas 
Development, Conservation & Design Manager 
 
From: Dermot Scanlon [mailto:dscanlon@peterbrett.com]  
Sent: 31 July 2014 15:00 
To: Thomas, Ryan 
Cc: Norman Campbell (ncampbell@stagenergy.com); Reece Emmitt (Reece@wepr.co.uk) 
Subject: Proposed Abergelli Power Project, land adjacent to the National Grid compressor station at Abergelli Farm, 
Felindre, Swansea SA5 7NN 
 
 
 
 
  
Appendix 4.A: Phase 1 2014 SoCC and 
Consultation Plan 
4.A V  Published 2014 SoCC (English) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
ABERGELLI POWER PROJECT 
Abergelli Farm, 
Felindre, Swansea 
STATEMENT OF COMMUNITY 
CONSULTATION  
 
30th September 2014 
www.abergellipower.co.uk   
 
 
 
 
September 2014 
1 
 
This Statement of Community Consultation is published in connection with a 
proposed gas-fired power station, including its integral gas and electrical 
connections, at Abergelli Farm (the Project). It explains how individuals living and 
working locally, as well as other interests such as local businesses and local 
civic/community organisations, can comment on the proposals to construct and 
operate the Project.  The Project Site is situated north of Swansea in the City & 
County of Swansea (north of M4, Junction 46), approximately 1km southeast of 
Felindre, 750m south-west of Llwyncelyn and 1.5km north of Llangyfelach.   
 
APL: location plan and application boundary 
The Project is being promoted by Abergelli Power Limited (APL), a company 
established by Watt Power Limited. Watt Power is seeking to develop gas fired 
power stations at Abergelli Farm and elsewhere in the UK to support the UK 
Government’s drive to a low carbon economy. 
  
APL has consulted City & County of Swansea Council as the local planning authority 
about the content of this Statement of Community Consultation and has had regard 
to the council’s response.   
 
 
September 2014 
2 
The capacity of the proposed Project will be in excess of 50 MW of electricity. As 
such, it is classified as a Nationally Significant Infrastructure Project (NSIP) under 
the Planning Act 2008. This requires a Development Consent Order (DCO), granted 
under the Planning Act 2008 (as amended by the Localism Act 2011 and the Growth 
and Infrastructure Act 2013 – hereafter referred to as ‘Planning Act 2008 (as 
amended)’), to build and operate, granted by the Secretary of State for Energy & 
Climate Change. 
 
The Statement of Community Consultation is part of a consultation process that APL 
is carrying out before it makes a formal application to the Secretary of State for a 
DCO. 
 
A consultation/communication plan has previously been developed and is available 
from APL or via its website www.abergellipower.co.uk. 
 
This Statement explains: 
• 
Some details about the Project; 
• 
How APL is publishing preliminary environmental information about the Project; 
• 
How APL is going to consult local people and communities about the Project 
and what activities will be undertaken to give them access to information about 
the proposal and help them to understand what particular aspects of the Project 
may mean to them, enabling them to provide informed feedback; 
• 
How people can become involved in shaping the Project before a DCO 
Application is submitted by putting forward their views to influence the Project, 
particularly regarding specific options under consideration; and 
• 
How people can provide feedback to APL from consultation activities and 
ensure that they are informed about the Project.  
 
The Project 
The key details of the proposed Project are: 
 
 
September 2014 
3 
• 
The construction of a Power Generation Plant with a rated electrical output of 
between 50 and 299 MW. The plant will have up to 5 stacks each up to 40m in 
height. The plant will have a dedicated access road.  
• 
The site for the Power Generation Plant covers an area of approximately 6 ha;  
• 
The Power Generation Plant will produce electricity from natural gas; 
• 
Construction of a new underground electrical connection  (up to 1km in length) 
to the National Grid and the construction of a new  underground pipeline (up to 
1.4km in length) to bring natural gas to the Power Generation Plant from the 
National Transmission System;  
• 
Creation of approximately 150 jobs during a construction period lasting two 
years and 15 permanent jobs once commercial operations have begun;    
• 
It responds to the UK Government’s need for new gas generation in order to 
underpin the country’s energy security and its transition to a low-carbon 
economy; 
• 
The station would emit about 50% less carbon dioxide (CO2) than an equivalent 
sized coal-fired power plant, and is designed to operate flexibly so that it can 
respond quickly and efficiently to short-term variation in customer demand and 
intermittent output from wind power generation; and 
• 
It is acknowledged that during construction and operation there is potential for 
adverse effects on some local communities and the environment, for example 
noise and traffic during the construction phase and the visual effects of the of 
the new stacks.  An Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) is being 
undertaken to understand and seek to minimise these and other potential effects 
of the Project’s construction and operation. More information on this process is 
provided below. The EIA process is also considering the potential positive 
effects of the operation of the Project. 
 
The Planning Process 
DCO applications for NSIPs are submitted to the Planning Inspectorate which will 
process and examine the application before making a recommendation to the 
relevant Secretary of State. The final decision on the application is made by the 
Secretary of State and if it is successful, a DCO will be made.  
 
 
September 2014 
4 
The Government's policies in relation to NSIPs are set out in National Policy 
Statements (NPSs). The Project has been developed with regard to the relevant 
Energy NPSs, in particular EN-1 (Energy), EN-2 (Fossil Fuel Electricity Generating 
Infrastructure) and EN-5 (Electricity Networks Infrastructure).  EN-1 states that "gas 
will continue to play an important role in the electricity sector- providing vital flexibility 
to support an increasing amount of low-carbon generation and to maintain security of 
supply".   
 
When determining a DCO Application, the Secretary of State must have regard to 
the relevant NPSs and must make a decision in accordance with these unless 
she/he is satisfied that the adverse impact of the Project would outweigh its benefits.  
  
When considering whether to accept an application for examination, the Planning 
Inspectorate must be satisfied that the applicant has undertaken effective pre-
application consultation.  Pre-application consultation is essential in allowing APL to 
understand and seek to minimise the effects of the Project and to allow a thorough 
examination by the Planning Inspectorate. APL is required to submit a Consultation 
Report with its application for a DCO.  This report will include details of the local 
community feedback received, explain how APL has had regard to the feedback and 
will detail how APL has complied with the consultation requirements of the Planning 
Act 2008 (as amended). 
 
The community consultation described in this statement is carried out under Section 
47 of the Planning Act 2008 (as amended). It is in addition to consultation that will be 
carried out with specific statutory consultees (such as statutory nature conservation 
bodies) and those with relevant interests in land (including owners and occupiers 
within the Project boundary) under Section 42 of the Planning Act 2008 (as 
amended). It is also in addition to wider publication of the proposed Project under 
Section 48 of the Planning Act 2008 (as amended).  
 
Information on the planning process and the NPSs can be found at:  
www.planningportal.gov.uk/planning/planninginspectorate 
www.decc.gov.uk/en/content/cms/meeting_energy/consents_planning/nps_en_infra/
nps_en_infra.aspx 
 
 
September 2014 
5 
Environmental Information & Impacts 
The Project will be designed and developed to meet or exceed current quality, safety 
and environmental standards and efforts will be made to minimise its impact on the 
local environment, both during its construction and its operation.  The extent and 
scale of the Project and APL’s proposals to mitigate its impacts will be amongst the 
issues considered by the Planning Inspectorate on behalf of the Secretary of State. 
 
Because of the nature and size of the Project, APL is undertaking an EIA. Therefore, 
the Project is classed as an EIA development. The EIA considers the potential 
impacts of the Project including: air quality; noise and vibration; ecology; water 
quality and resources; geology, ground conditions and agriculture; landscape and 
visual; traffic, transport and access; cultural heritage and archeology; and socio-
economics.  
 
APL has consulted with various statutory bodies concerning the scope of the EIA, 
including local authorities, Natural Resources Wales (NRW), the South Wales Trunk 
Road Agency, and utility providers. A request for a Scoping Opinion was submitted 
to the Planning Inspectorate on June 25th 2014, accompanied by a Scoping Report. 
The Scoping Report outlines which environmental topics will be covered by the EIA 
and how the assessments will be undertaken. The Planning Inspectorate issued its 
formal Scoping Opinion on 1st August 2014.  
 
All 
documents 
are 
available 
on 
the 
Abergelli 
Power 
website 
(www.abergellipower.co.uk) and via the dedicated section on the Planning Portal 
website: http://infrastructure.planningportal.gov.uk/projects/wales/abergelli-power/ 
 
As part of the pre-application consultation materials on the proposed Project, APL 
will publish a Preliminary Environmental Information Report (PEIR) and an 
associated non-technical summary (NTS).  The PEIR will present the information 
gathered to date and provide the results of APL’s preliminary findings of the 
assessment of the likely significant environmental effects of the Project.  It will not 
set out the final findings but will include information on provisional mitigation 
measures.  During consultation, APL will make available details on landscaping 
proposals and other measures to mitigate the Project’s impact.  APL will provide 
 
 
September 2014 
6 
copies of the PEIR and its associated NTS to City & County of Swansea Council as 
the local planning authority. Both documents will also be made available at: 
Swansea Central Library; local libraries; at public exhibitions held as part of the 
consultation process and on the APL website.  
 
When the EIA process is complete and APL submits its application for a DCO, it will 
be accompanied by an Environmental Statement. This will report on the likely 
significant environmental effects of the Project identified in the EIA and will explain 
the mitigation measures to avoid or reduce these.  
 
Public Consultation 
The views of the local community about the Project are important.  In June 2014, 
APL carried out a non-statutory consultation process sharing its initial plans with the 
public at three exhibitions held in Clydach, Felindre and Tircoed.  At the exhibitions 
and since, APL has received and responded to comments on the Project and its 
impact on the environment, local communities and the local economy.    
 
a. 
What are we now consulting on and when? 
In the statutory phase of consultation commencing in Autumn 2014, APL will seek 
views on the preliminary environmental information presented about the Project as 
well as on other key elements of the Project. Only after responses have been 
considered will the design be finalised and the application for a DCO be submitted. 
Responses will be invited on: 
 The preliminary findings of the assessment as to the likely significant 
environmental effects of the Project; 
 The proposed route option(s) for accessing the Project; and 
 The indicative layout of the power generation plant within the Project site. 
The consultation explained in this Statement will run for 35 days ending on 16th 
November 2014. Comments about the Project must be received by APL by this date.   
 
b. 
Who will we consult with? 
 
 
September 2014 
7 
The Planning Act 2008 (as amended) states that those ‘living in the vicinity of the 
land’ should be consulted.  APL has discussed the scope of the consultation with 
City & County of Swansea as the local planning authority, and has identified and 
agreed the Consultation Zones that form the basis of the community consultation.  
 
APL will carry out its consultation activities in two areas: a Core Consultation Zone 
(CCZ) that equates to an approximate radius of 3.5km from the Project Site and an 
Outer Consultation Zone (OCZ) that equates to a radius of approximately 8km.   
 
The CCZ has been designed to include the main population areas in the vicinity of 
the Project Site that have the potential to be affected by the Project and expected to 
have the greatest interest in the Project   The zone includes the villages of Clydach, 
Felindre, Llangyfelach and Tircoed, and all or parts of the following community 
council areas: Clydach, Llangyfelach, Mawr, Morriston, Mynyddbach, Penllergaer 
and Pontlliw & Tircoed. 
 
Proposed Core Consultation Zone – approx. 3.5 km radius from the Project 
Site 
 
 
 
September 2014 
8 
Communities within the OCZ will be informed about the Project (via newspaper 
advertisements, posters, media coverage and contact with local elected members 
and community councils in the OCZ and other relevant local organisations) and 
given the opportunity to comment on the plans.  The outer zone includes the main 
population area of the city of Swansea.   
 
APL does not anticipate that the communities and businesses which lie within the 
OCZ will be significantly impacted by the Project’s construction and operation 
although APL recognises that they may be interested in it.  Outside the two zones, 
there may well be others interested in APL’s plans. They will also be reached 
through local/regional newspaper advertising and media coverage (print, broadcast 
and social media). Feedback that is received within the consultation period will be 
considered. 
 
c. 
 How will we consult?  
APL will seek and receive people’s views through a number of activities: 
• 
Public exhibitions will be held at Clydach, Felindre, Llangyfelach and Tircoed 
within the CCZ. Feedback forms, allowing people to provide their views on the 
Project, will be available at these exhibitions; 
• 
A leaflet or letter will be delivered to households, businesses and institutions in 
the CCZ, and made available at local council offices, local libraries and other 
venues as appropriate. The leaflet will also be distributed to those groups that 
are defined as “hard to reach” (for example, the elderly, the young and minority 
groups). It will give background on the Project, the consultation process 
(including exhibitions) and how individuals can engage in it. The leaflet will be 
made available at libraries and council offices in the OCZ; 
• 
Copies of the leaflet, the SoCC, the Preliminary Environmental Information 
Report and its Non-Technical Summary as well as other information about the 
Project will be available to be inspected at the following locations: 
 
 
 
September 2014 
9 
 
City and County 
of Swansea 
Council Offices, 
Penllergaer 
Swansea SA4 9GJ 
(01792) 636000 
Swansea Central 
Library 
Civic Centre 
Oystermouth Road 
Swansea SA1 3SN 
(01792) 636464 
Clydach Library 
High Street 
Clydach, 
Swansea SA6 5LN 
(01792) 843300 
Gorseinon Library 
15 West Street 
Gorseinon 
Swansea SA4 4AA 
(01792) 516780 
Morriston Library 
Treharne Road 
Morriston 
Swansea SA6 7AA 
(01792) 516770 
Pontarddulais 
Library 
St Michael’s 
Avenue 
Pontarddulais 
Swansea SA4 8TE 
(01792) 882822 
Monday 
8.30-17.00 
CLOSED 
9.30-17.30 
9.00-18.00 
9.00-18.00 
9.00- 13.00 and 
14.00 - 17.00 
Tuesday 
8.30-17.00 
8.30-20.00 
9.30-17.30 
9.00-18.00 
9.00-18.00 
9.00- 13.00 and 
14.00 - 17.00 
Wednesday 
8.30-17.00 
8.30-20.00 
9.30-17.30 
9.00-18.00 
9.00-18.00 
9.00- 13.00 and 
14.00 - 17.00 
Thursday 
8.30-17.00 
8.30-20.00 
9.30-17.30 
9.00-18.00 
9.00-18.00 
9.00- 13.00 and 
14.00 - 17.00 
Friday 
8.30-16.00 
8.30-20.00 
9.30-17.30 
9.00-19.00 
9.00-18.00 
9.00- 13.00 and 
14.00 - 18.00 
Saturday 
CLOSED 
10.00-16.00 
9.30-17.30 
9.00-17.00 
9.00-17.00 
10.00- 13.00 
Sunday 
CLOSED 
10.00-16.00 
CLOSED 
CLOSED 
CLOSED 
CLOSED 
 
• 
The leaflet and other information about the Project can be made available in 
other formats (e.g. large print or braille) and languages upon request; 
• 
A website (www.abergellipower.co.uk) provides information on the Project as 
well as access to documents, and provide visitors the opportunity to ask 
questions or make comments online; 
• 
An e-mail address to which individuals can write (provided at the end of this 
document); 
• 
A Freepost mailbox to which people can send questions or comments (provided 
at the end of this document); 
• 
APL will also notify the local community about the Project and the consultation 
events via posters in the local community, newspaper advertisements and 
media coverage;  
• 
In addition, APL will contact a broad spectrum of local stakeholders. These will 
include elected representatives, local community, special interest groups 
(including those “hard to reach groups” such as the young, elderly and the 
disabled), and local business groups. APL will provide them with information on 
the Project and undertake briefings where appropriate. 
 
 
 
September 2014 
10 
Individuals and organisations wishing to respond should include their name and an 
address where correspondence about the response can be sent. Responses may be 
made public, subject to data protection laws. 
Comments made at any stage of the consultation process will be recorded and 
carefully considered by APL as part of the process of preparing the final proposals 
for its application to the Planning Inspectorate. 
 
KEY DATES 
ACTIVITY 
30th September 2014 
Statement of Community Consultation published 
13th October 
Consultation period starts 
PUBLIC EXHIBITIONS 
22nd October 2014, 
15.00 – 20.00 
Llangyfelach 
Church 
Hall, 
Swansea 
Road, 
Llangyfelach, Swansea SA5 7JA  
23rd 
October 
2014, 
14.00 – 19.00 
Felindre Welfare Hall, Felindre, Swansea SA5 7NA 
24th October 2014, 
14.00 – 19.00 
Forge Fach Resource Centre, Hebron Road, 
Clydach, Swansea SA6 5EJ  
25th October 2014, 
9.00 – 13.00 
Tircoed Village Hall, Y Cyswllt, Tircoed SA4 9QZ  
16th November 2014 
Consultation period closes 
Q1 2015 
DCO Application submitted 
Q2 2015 
Planning 
Inspectorate 
publically 
notifies 
the 
acceptance of application and sets examination 
timetable, likely to run during Q3 2014.  
 
Contact details 
APL welcomes queries and comments: 
Website:  
www.abergellipower.co.uk 
Email:  
info@abergellipower.co.uk 
Post: 
Freepost RTEY-JYYB-ERSR, Abergelli Power Ltd, 49 York Place, 
Edinburgh EH1 3JD 
Phone: 
0131 550 3395 
 
 
 
  
Appendix 4.A: Phase 1 2014 SoCC and 
Consultation Plan 
4.A VI  Published 2014 SoCC (Welsh) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
PROSIECT ABERGELLI POWER  
Fferm Abergelli, 
Felindre, Abertawe 
DATGANIAD YNGHYLCH 
YMGYNGHORI Â’R GYMUNED  
 
30ain o Fedi 2014 
www.abergellipower.co.uk   
 
 
 
 
Medi 2014 
1 
Cyhoeddir y Datganiad hwn ynghylch Ymgynghori â’r Gymuned mewn cysylltiad â 
gorsaf bŵer arfaethedig sy’n rhedeg ar nwy, yn cynnwys ei chysylltiadau nwy a 
thrydanol annatod, ar Fferm Abergelli (y Prosiect).  Mae’n egluro sut y gall unigolion 
sy’n byw ac yn gweithio’n lleol, yn ogystal â buddiannau eraill fel busnesau lleol a 
sefydliadau dinesig/cymunedol lleol, fwrw sylw ar y cynigion i adeiladu ac i 
weithredu’r Prosiect.  Lleolir safle’r Prosiect i’r gogledd o Abertawe yn Ninas a Sir 
Abertawe (i’r gogledd o’r M4, Cyffordd 46), oddeutu 1 cilometr i’r de-ddwyrain o 
Felindre, 750 metr i’r de-orllewin o Lwyncelyn ac 1.5 cilometr i’r gogledd o 
Langyfelach.   
 
APL: cynllun y lleoliad a ffin y cais 
Hyrwyddir y Prosiect gan Abergelli Power Cyfyngedig (APL), sef cwmni a sefydlwyd 
gan Watt Power Limited.  Mae Watt Power yn bwriadu datblygu gorsafoedd pŵer 
sy’n rhedeg ar nwy ar Fferm Abergelli ac mewn mannau eraill yn y Deyrnas Unedig i 
gefnogi ymgyrch Llywodraeth y Deyrnas Unedig i gael economi carbon isel. 
  
Mae APL wedi ymgynghori â Chyngor Dinas a Sir Abertawe fel yr awdurdod 
cynllunio lleol ynglŷn â chynnwys y Datganiad hwn ynghylch Ymgynghori â’r 
Gymuned, ac mae wedi ystyried ymateb y cyngor.   
 
 
Medi 2014 
2 
Bydd gan y Prosiect arfaethedig gapasiti o dros 50 megawat o drydan.  O’r herwydd, 
caiff ei gategoreiddio fel Prosiect Seilwaith Cenedlaethol ei Arwyddocâd (NSIP) o 
dan Ddeddf Gynllunio 2008.  Bydd yn rhaid i hyn gael Gorchymyn Caniatâd Datblygu 
(DCO), a roddir o dan Ddeddf Gynllunio 2008 (fel y’i diwygir gan Ddeddf Lleoliaeth 
2011 a Deddf Twf a Seilwaith 2013 - y cyfeirir ati o hyn ymlaen fel ‘Deddf Gynllunio 
2008 (fel y’i diwygir)’), i adeiladu ac i weithredu, a roddwyd gan yr Ysgrifennydd 
Gwladol dros Ynni a Newid Hinsawdd. 
 
Mae’r Datganiad ynghylch Ymgynghori â’r Gymuned yn rhan o broses ymgynghori y 
mae APL yn ymgymryd â hi cyn eu bod yn gwneud cais ffurfiol i’r Ysgrifennydd 
Gwladol am Orchymyn Caniatâd Datblygu. 
 
Mae yna gynllun ymgynghori/cyfathrebu wedi’i ddatblygu o’r blaen ac mae ar gael 
gan APL neu trwy’u gwefan www.abergellipower.co.uk. 
 
Mae’r Datganiad hwn yn egluro: 
• 
Rhai manylion am y Prosiect; 
• 
Sut mae APL yn cyhoeddi gwybodaeth amgylcheddol ragarweiniol am y 
Prosiect; 
• 
Sut mae APL am fynd ati i ymgynghori â phobl a chymunedau lleol ynghylch y 
Prosiect a pha weithgareddau a gynhelir iddynt allu cyrchu gwybodaeth am y 
cynigiad ac i’w helpu i ddeall yr hyn y gall agweddau neilltuol o’r Prosiect ei 
olygu iddynt, gan eu galluogi i ddarparu adborth gwybodus; 
• 
Sut y gall pobl gymryd rhan mewn llunio’r Prosiect cyn y cyflwynir Cais am 
Orchymyn Caniatâd Datblygu drwy roi’u barn gerbron i ddylanwadu ar y 
Prosiect, yn enwedig parthed opsiynau penodol sydd o dan ystyriaeth; a 
• 
Sut y gall pobl ddarparu adborth i APL oddi wrth weithgareddau ymgynghori, a 
sicrhau eu bod yn cael eu hysbysu am y Prosiect.  
 
Y Prosiect 
Manylion allweddol y Prosiect arfaethedig yw: 
 
 
Medi 2014 
3 
• 
Adeiladu Gwaith Cynhyrchu Pŵer sydd â chyfradd allbwn trydanol o rhwng 50 – 
299 megawat o drydan. Bydd gan y gwaith hyd at 5 simnai â phob un hyd at 40 
metr o uchder. Bydd gan y gwaith ffordd fynediad benodedig.  
• 
Mae’r safle ar gyfer y Gwaith Cynhyrchu Pŵer yn ymestyn dros ardal sydd 
oddeutu 6 hectar;  
• 
Bydd y Gwaith Cynhyrchu Pŵer yn cynhyrchu trydan o nwy naturiol; 
• 
Adeiladu cysylltiad trydanol newydd o dan ddaear (hyd at 1 cilometr o hyd) i’r 
Grid Cenedlaethol ac adeiladu piblinell newydd o dan ddaear (hyd at 1.4 
cilometr o hyd) i ddod â nwy naturiol i’r Gwaith Cynhyrchu Pŵer o’r System 
Drawsyrru Genedlaethol;  
• 
Creu oddeutu 150 o swyddi yn ystod cyfnod adeiladu fydd yn para dwy flynedd 
a 15 o swyddi parhaol unwaith y bydd gweithrediadau masnachol wedi dechrau;    
• 
Mae’n ymateb i angen Llywodraeth y DU am gynhyrchu nwy newydd er mwyn 
tanategu sicrwydd ynni’r wlad a’i phroses o bontio i economi carbon isel; 
• 
Byddai’r orsaf yn allyrru tua 50% yn llai o garbon deuocsid (CO2) na gwaith pŵer 
o faint cyfwerth sy’n rhedeg ar lo, ac mae wedi’i chynllunio i weithredu’n hyblyg 
fel y gall ymateb yn gyflym ac yn effeithlon i amrywiad byrdymor mewn galw gan 
gwsmeriaid ac allbwn ysbeidiol oddi wrth bŵer gwynt a gynhyrchir; a  
• 
Chydnabyddir fod yna botensial yn ystod adeiladu a gweithredu ar gyfer 
effeithiau andwyol ar rai cymunedau lleol a’r amgylchedd, er enghraifft, sŵn a 
thraffig yn ystod y cyfnod adeiladu ac effeithiau gweledol y simneiau newydd.  
Cynhelir Asesiad o’r Effaith Amgylcheddol (EIA / AEA) i ddeall ac i geisio lleihau 
hyd yr eithaf ar yr effeithiau hyn ac effeithiau posib’ eraill a gâi adeiladu a 
gweithredu’r Prosiect.  Darperir mwy o wybodaeth am y broses hon isod.  Mae’r 
broses Asesu’r Effaith Amgylcheddol hefyd yn ystyried effeithiau positif posib’ 
gweithrediad y Prosiect.   
 
Y Broses Gynllunio 
Cyflwynir ceisiadau am Orchymyn Caniatâd Datblygu ar gyfer Prosiectau Seilwaith 
Cenedlaethol eu Harwyddocâd i’r Arolygiaeth Gynllunio fydd yn prosesu ac yn 
archwilio’r cais cyn gwneud argymhelliad i’r Ysgrifennydd Gwladol perthnasol.  
 
 
Medi 2014 
4 
Gwneir y penderfyniad terfynol ar y cais gan yr Ysgrifennydd Gwladol, ac os yw’n 
llwyddiannus, gwneir Gorchymyn Caniatâd Datblygu.   
 
 
Amlinellir polisïau’r Llywodraeth mewn perthynas â Phrosiectau Seilwaith 
Cenedlaethol eu Harwyddocâd mewn Datganiadau Polisi Cenedlaethol (NPSs).  
Datblygwyd y Prosiect gan ystyried y Datganiadau Polisi Cenedlaethol perthnasol ar 
Ynni, yn arbennig EN-1 (Ynni), EN-2 (Seilwaith Cynhyrchu Trydan o Danwydd Ffosil) 
ac EN-5 (Seilwaith Rhwydweithiau Trydan).  Mae EN-1 yn datgan: "y bydd nwy’n 
parhau i fod â rôl bwysig yn y sector trydan – gan ddarparu hyblygrwydd hanfodol i 
gefnogi cyfaint cynyddol o gynnyrch carbon isel ac i gynnal sicrwydd cyflenwad.”   
 
Wrth bennu Cais am Orchymyn Caniatâd Datblygu, mae’n rhaid i’r Ysgrifennydd 
Gwladol ystyried y Datganiadau Polisi Cenedlaethol perthnasol, ac mae’n rhaid iddo 
wneud penderfyniad yn unol â’r rhain oni bai ei fod ef/hi yn fodlon y byddai effaith 
andwyol y Prosiect yn gorbwyso’i fuddion. 
  
Wrth ystyried p’run ai derbyn cais ar gyfer archwiliad, mae’n rhaid i’r Arolygiaeth 
Gynllunio fod yn fodlon bod yr ymgeisydd wedi cynnal ymgynghoriad effeithiol cyn 
ymgeisio.  Mae ymgynghori cyn ymgeisio’n hanfodol i alluogi APL i ddeall ac i geisio 
lleihau hyd yr eithaf ar effeithiau’r Prosiect ac i ganiatáu archwiliad trylwyr gan yr 
Arolygiaeth Gynllunio.  Mae gofyn i APL gyflwyno Adroddiad Ymgynghori gyda’i gais 
am Orchymyn Caniatâd Datblygu.  Bydd yr adroddiad hwn yn cynnwys manylion yr 
adborth a dderbyniwyd oddi wrth y gymuned leol, yn egluro sut mae APL wedi 
ystyried yr adborth, a bydd yn rhoi manylion ynglŷn â sut y mae APL wedi 
cydymffurfio â gofynion ymgynghori Deddf Gynllunio 2008 (fel y’i diwygiwyd). 
 
Cynhelir yr ymgynghoriad â’r gymuned a ddisgrifir yn y datganiad hwn o dan Adran 
47 Deddf Gynllunio 2008 (fel y’i diwygiwyd).  Mae o yn ychwanegol at yr ymgynghori 
a wneir ag ymgyngoreion statudol penodol (fel cyrff cadwraeth natur statudol) a’r 
rheiny sydd â buddiannau perthnasol mewn tir (yn cynnwys perchnogion a deiliaid o 
fewn ffiniau’r Prosiect) o dan Adran 42 Deddf Gynllunio 2008 (fel y’i diwygiwyd).  
Mae o hefyd yn ychwanegol at gyhoeddusrwydd ehangach i’r Prosiect arfaethedig o 
dan Adran 48 Deddf Gynllunio 2008 (fel y’i diwygiwyd). 
 
 
Medi 2014 
5 
Gellir canfod gwybodaeth am y broses gynllunio a’r Datganiadau Polisi Cenedlaethol 
yn:  
www.planningportal.gov.uk/planning/planninginspectorate 
www.decc.gov.uk/en/content/cms/meeting_energy/consents_planning/nps_en_infra/
nps_en_infra.aspx 
 
Gwybodaeth ac Effeithiau Amgylcheddol 
Dylinir a datblygir y Prosiect i gyrraedd neu i ragori ar safonau ansawdd, diogelwch 
ac amgylcheddol cyfredol, a gwneir ymdrechion i leihau hyd yr eithaf ar ei effaith ar 
yr amgylchedd lleol yn ystod y gwaith o’i adeiladu a’i weithredu.  Bydd ehangder a 
graddfa’r Prosiect a chynigion APL i liniaru’i effeithiau ymysg y materion a ystyrir gan 
yr Arolygiaeth Gynllunio ar ran yr Ysgrifennydd Gwladol. 
 
Oherwydd natur a maint y Prosiect, mae APL yn cynnal Asesiad o’r Effaith 
Amgylcheddol.  Felly, caiff y Prosiect ei gategoreiddio fel datblygiad Asesiad o’r 
Effaith Amgylcheddol.  Mae’r Asesiad o’r Effaith Amgylcheddol yn ystyried effeithiau 
posib’ y Prosiect, yn cynnwys: ansawdd yr aer; sŵn a dirgryndod; ecoleg; ansawdd 
ac adnoddau dŵr; daeareg, cyflwr y ddaear ac amaethyddiaeth; tirwedd ac effeithiau 
gweledol; traffig, trafnidiaeth a mynediad; etifeddiaeth ddiwylliannol ac archeoleg; a 
ffactorau economaidd-gymdeithasol.   
 
Mae APL wedi ymgynghori ag amrywiol gyrff statudol yn ymwneud â chwmpas yr 
Asesiad o’r Effaith Amgylcheddol, yn cynnwys awdurdodau lleol, Cyfoeth Naturiol 
Cymru, Asiantaeth Cefnffyrdd De Cymru, a darparwyr gwasanaethau cyfleustodau.  
Cyflwynwyd cais am Farn Gwmpasu i’r Arolygiaeth Gynllunio ar y 25ain o Fehefin, 
2014, ynghyd ag Adroddiad Cwmpasu.  Mae’r Adroddiad Cwmpasu yn amlinellu pa 
bynciau amgylcheddol fydd yn cael eu trin gan yr Asesiad o’r Effaith Amgylcheddol a 
sut y cynhelir yr asesiadau.  Cyhoeddodd yr Arolygiaeth Gynllunio eu Barn 
Gwmpasu ffurfiol ar y 1af o Awst, 2014.   
 
Mae’r holl ddogfennau ar gael ar wefan Abergelli Power (www.abergellipower.co.uk) 
a thrwy’r adran benodedig ar wefan Y Porth Cynllunio: 
http://infrastructure.planningportal.gov.uk/projects/wales/abergelli-power/ 
 
 
Medi 2014 
6 
Fel rhan o’r deunyddiau ymgynghori cyn ymgeisio ar y Prosiect arfaethedig, bydd 
APL yn cyhoeddi Adroddiad Gwybodaeth Amgylcheddol Rhagarweiniol  (PEIR) a 
chrynodeb annhechnegol cysylltiedig (NTS).  Bydd y PEIR yn cyflwyno’r wybodaeth 
a gasglwyd hyd yn hyn ac yn darparu canlyniadau canfyddiadau rhagarweiniol APL o 
effeithiau amgylcheddol sylweddol tebygol y Prosiect.  Ni fydd yn nodi’r 
canfyddiadau terfynol ond bydd yn cynnwys gwybodaeth am gamau lliniaru dros dro.  
Yn ystod yr ymgynghori, bydd APL yn rhoi manylion ar gael ynghylch cynigion 
tirlunio a chamau eraill i liniaru effaith y Prosiect.  Bydd APL yn darparu copïau o’r 
PEIR a’i grynodeb annhechnegol cysylltiedig i Gyngor Dinas a Sir Abertawe fel yr 
awdurdod cynllunio lleol.  Rhoddir y ddwy ddogfen ar gael hefyd yn: Llyfrgell 
Ganolog Abertawe; llyfrgelloedd lleol; mewn arddangosfeydd cyhoeddus a gynhelir 
fel rhan o’r broses ymgynghori, ac ar wefan APL.  
 
 
 
 
Pan fydd y broses Asesu’r Effaith Amgylcheddol wedi’i chwblhau ac y bydd APL yn 
cyflwyno’u cais am Orchymyn Caniatâd Datblygu, bydd yn mynd law yn llaw â 
Datganiad Amgylcheddol.  Bydd hwn yn adrodd ar effeithiau amgylcheddol 
sylweddol tebygol y Prosiect a nodir yn yr Asesiad o’r Effaith Amgylcheddol, a bydd 
yn egluro’r camau lliniaru er mwyn osgoi neu leihau’r rhain.    
 
Ymgynghori â’r Cyhoedd 
Mae barn y gymuned leol am y Prosiect yn bwysig.  Ym mis Mehefin 2014, 
cynhaliodd APL broses ymgynghori anstatudol gan rannu’u cynlluniau cychwynnol 
â’r cyhoedd mewn tair arddangosfa a gynhaliwyd yng Nghlydach, Felindre a 
Thircoed.  Yn yr arddangosfeydd ac ers hynny, mae APL wedi derbyn ac wedi 
ymateb i sylwadau ynghylch y Prosiect a’i effaith ar yr amgylchedd, cymunedau lleol 
a’r economi lleol.    
 
a. 
Beth rydym yn ymgynghori arno yn awr a pha bryd? 
Yng nghyfnod statudol yr ymgynghori sy’n dechrau yn hydref 2014, bydd APL yn 
ymofyn barn am y wybodaeth amgylcheddol ragarweiniol a gyflwynwyd am y 
Prosiect, yn ogystal ag am elfennau allweddol eraill y Prosiect.  Dim ond ar ôl i 
ymatebion gael eu hystyried y bydd y dyluniad yn cael ei gwblhau ac y bydd y cais 
am Orchymyn Caniatâd Datblygu’n cael ei gyflwyno. 
 
 
Medi 2014 
7 
Gwahoddir ymatebion ar: 
 Ganfyddiadau rhagarweiniol yr asesiad ynghylch effeithiau amgylcheddol 
arwyddocaol tebygol y Prosiect;  
 Yr opsiwn (opsiynau)  arfaethedig ar gyfer y llwybr i gael mynediad i’r 
Prosiect; a 
 Chynllun dangosol y gwaith cynhyrchu pŵer o fewn safle’r Prosiect.    
Bydd yr ymgynghoriad a eglurir yn y Datganiad hwn ar waith am 35 o ddiwrnodau 
gan orffen ar yr 16eg o Dachwedd, 2014.  Bydd yn rhaid i APL dderbyn sylwadau am 
y Prosiect erbyn y dyddiad hwn.   
 
b. 
Gyda phwy y byddwn yn ymgynghori? 
Mae Deddf Gynllunio 2008 (fel y’i diwygiwyd) yn datgan y dylid ymgynghori â’r rheiny 
‘sy’n byw yng nghyffiniau’r tir’.  Mae APL wedi trafod cwmpas yr ymgynghoriad â 
Chyngor Dinas a Sir Abertawe fel yr awdurdod cynllunio lleol, ac maent wedi nodi a 
chytuno ar y Parthau Ymgynghori sy’n ffurfio sail yr ymgynghori â’r gymuned.    
 
Bydd APL yn cynnal eu gweithgareddau ymgynghori mewn dwy ardal: Parth 
Ymgynghori Craidd (CCZ) sy’n cyfateb yn fras i radiws o 3.5 cilometr o Safle’r 
Prosiect, a Pharth Ymgynghori Allanol (OCZ) sy’n cyfateb i radiws o thua 8 cilometr.   
 
Mae’r Parth Ymgynghori Craidd wedi’i ddylunio i gynnwys y prif ardaloedd 
poblogaeth yng nghyffiniau Safle’r Prosiect sydd â’r potensial i gael eu heffeithio gan 
y Prosiect ac y disgwylir y bydd ganddynt y diddordeb mwyaf yn y Prosiect.  Mae’r 
parth yn cynnwys pentrefi Clydach, Felindre, Llangyfelach a Thircoed, a’r cyfan neu 
rannau o ardaloedd canlynol y cynghorau cymuned: Clydach, Llangyfelach, Mawr, 
Treforys, Mynyddbach, Penllergaer a Phontlliw & Thircoed. 
 
 
 
Medi 2014 
8 
 
Parth Ymgynghori Craidd arfaethedig – radiws o thua 3.5 cilometr o Safle’r 
Prosiect 
Hysbysir cymunedau o fewn y Parth Ymgynghori Allanol am y Prosiect (trwy 
hysbysebion mewn papurau newyddion, posteri, sylw yn y cyfryngau a chysylltiadau 
ag aelodau etholedig lleol a chynghorau cymuned yn y Parth Ymgynghori Allanol a 
sefydliadau lleol perthnasol eraill) a rhoddir y cyfle iddynt fwrw sylw ar y cynlluniau.  
Mae’r parth allanol yn cynnwys prif ardal boblogaeth dinas Abertawe.   
 
Nid yw APL yn rhagweld yr effeithir yn sylweddol ar y cymunedau a’r busnesau a 
leolir o fewn y Parth Ymgynghori Allanol gan waith adeiladu a gweithredu’r Prosiect, 
er bod APL yn cydnabod y gall fod ganddynt fuddiant ynddo.  Y tu allan i’r ddau 
barth, efallai yn wir fod yna eraill sydd â buddiant yng nghynlluniau APL.  Cânt hefyd 
eu cyrraedd drwy hysbysebion mewn papurau newyddion lleol/rhanbarthol a sylw yn 
y cyfryngau (cyfryngau print, darlledu a chyfryngau cymdeithasol).  Ystyrir adborth a 
dderbynnir o fewn y cyfnod ymgynghori.  
 
c. 
 Sut y gwnawn ymgynghori?  
Bydd APL yn ymofyn ac yn derbyn barn pobl drwy nifer o weithgareddau:   
 
 
Medi 2014 
9 
• 
Cynhelir arddangosfeydd cyhoeddus yng Nghlydach, Felindre, Llangyfelach a 
Thircoed o fewn y Parth Ymgynghori Craidd.  Bydd ffurflenni adborth, i ganiatáu 
i bobl roi’u barn am y Prosiect, ar gael yn yr arddangosfeydd hyn; 
• 
Danfonir taflen neu lythyr i gartrefi, busnesau a sefydliadau yn y Parth 
Ymgynghori Craidd, a rhoddir hwy ar gael mewn swyddfeydd cynghorau lleol, 
llyfrgelloedd lleol a mannau cyfarfod eraill, fel sy’n briodol.  Dosbarthir y daflen 
hefyd i’r grwpiau hynny a ddiffinnir fel “anodd eu cyrraedd” (er enghraifft, yr 
henoed, yr ifainc a grwpiau lleiafrifol).  Bydd yn rhoi gwybodaeth gefndirol am y 
Prosiect, y broses ymgynghori (yn cynnwys arddangosfeydd) a sut y gall 
unigolion gymryd rhan ynddo.  Rhoddir y daflen ar gael mewn llyfrgelloedd a 
swyddfeydd cynghorau yn y Parth Ymgynghori Allanol; 
• 
Bydd copïau o’r daflen, y Datganiad ynghylch Ymgynghori â’r Gymuned, yr 
Adroddiad Gwybodaeth Amgylcheddol Rhagarweiniol a’i Grynodeb 
Annhechnegol, yn ogystal â mathau eraill o wybodaeth am y Prosiect, ar gael 
i’w harchwilio yn y lleoliadau a ganlyn:     
 
 
Cyngor Dinas a 
Sir Abertawe, 
Swyddfeydd y 
Cyngor, 
Penllergaer, 
Abertawe SA4 
9GJ 
(01792) 636000 
Llyfrgell Ganolog 
Abertawe, 
Y Ganolfan 
Ddinesig, 
Heol 
Ystumllwynarth, 
Abertawe SA1 3SN 
(01792) 636464 
Llyfrgell Clydach  
Stryd Fawr 
Clydach 
Abertawe SA6 5LN 
(01792) 843300 
Llyfrgell Gorseinon  
15 Stryd y Gorllewin 
Gorseinon 
Abertawe SA4 4AA 
(01792) 516780 
Llyfrgell Treforys  
Heol Treharne 
Treforys 
Abertawe SA6 7AA 
(01792) 516770 
Llyfrgell 
Pontarddulais 
Rhodfa St Michael 
Pontarddulais 
Abertawe SA4 8TE 
(01792) 882822 
Dydd Llun 
8.30-17.00 
YNGHAU 
9.30-17.30 
9.00-18.00 
9.00-18.00 
9.00- 13.00 a 14.00 
- 17.00 
Dydd Mawrth 
8.30-17.00 
8.30-20.00 
9.30-17.30 
9.00-18.00 
9.00-18.00 
9.00- 13.00 a 14.00 
- 17.00 
Dydd Mercher 
8.30-17.00 
8.30-20.00 
9.30-17.30 
9.00-18.00 
9.00-18.00 
9.00- 13.00 a 14.00 
- 17.00 
Dydd Iau 
8.30-17.00 
8.30-20.00 
9.30-17.30 
9.00-18.00 
9.00-18.00 
9.00- 13.00 a 14.00 
- 17.00 
Dydd Gwener 
8.30-16.00 
8.30-20.00 
9.30-17.30 
9.00-19.00 
9.00-18.00 
9.00- 13.00 a 14.00 
- 18.00 
Dydd Sadwrn  
YNGHAU 
10.00-16.00 
9.30-17.30 
9.00-17.00 
9.00-17.00 
10.00- 13.00 
Dydd Sul 
YNGHAU 
10.00-16.00 
YNGHAU 
YNGHAU 
YNGHAU 
YNGHAU 
 
 
 
 
 
Medi 2014 
10 
• 
Gellir rho’r daflen a mathau eraill o wybodaeth am y Prosiect ar gael mewn 
fformatau eraill (e.e., print bras neu braille) ac mewn ieithoedd eraill ar gais; 
• 
Mae gwefan (www.abergellipower.co.uk) yn darparu gwybodaeth am y Prosiect, 
yn ogystal â mynediad at ddogfennau, ac mae’n darparu’r cyfle i ymwelwyr i 
ofyn cwestiynau neu i wneud sylwadau ar-lein; 
• 
Cyfeiriad e-bost y gall unigolion ysgrifennu ato (a ddarperir ar ddiwedd y 
ddogfen hon); 
• 
Blwch negeseuon Rhadbost y gall pobl anfon cwestiynau neu sylwadau ato (a 
ddarperir ar ddiwedd y ddogfen hon); 
• 
Bydd APL hefyd yn hysbysu’r gymuned leol am y Prosiect a’r digwyddiadau 
ymgynghori drwy bosteri yn y gymuned leol, hysbysebion papurau newyddion a 
sylw yn y cyfryngau;  
• 
Yn ychwanegol, bydd APL yn cysylltu ag ystod eang o randdeiliaid lleol.  Bydd y 
rhain yn cynnwys cynrychiolwyr etholedig, y gymuned leol, grwpiau buddiant 
arbennig (yn cynnwys y “grwpiau anodd eu cyrraedd” hynny, fel yr ifainc, yr 
henoed a’r anabl), a grwpiau busnes lleol.  Bydd APL yn darparu gwybodaeth 
iddynt am y Prosiect ac yn cynnal cyfarfodydd briffio, ble y bo’n briodol. 
 
Dylai unigolion a sefydliadau sy’n dymuno ymateb gynnwys eu henw a chyfeiriad lle 
y gellir anfon gohebiaeth am yr ymateb.  Gellir rhoi ymatebion ar gael yn gyhoeddus, 
yn amodol ar gyfreithiau diogelu data. 
Bydd sylwadau a wneir yn ystod unrhyw gam o’r broses ymgynghori yn cael eu 
cofnodi a’u hystyried yn ofalus gan APL fel rhan o’r broses o baratoi’r cynigion 
terfynol ar gyfer eu cais i’r Arolygiaeth Gynllunio.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medi 2014 
11 
 
DYDDIADAU ALLWEDDOL 
GWEITHGAREDD 
30ain o Fedi, 2014 
Cyhoeddi Datganiad ynghylch Ymgynghori â’r 
Gymuned 
13eg o Hydref, 2014 
Dechrau’r cyfnod ymgynghori 
ARDDANGOSFEYDD CYHOEDDUS 
22ain o Hydref, 2014,  
15:00 – 20:00 
Neuadd Eglwys Llangyfelach, Heol Abertawe, 
Llangyfelach, Abertawe SA5 7JA  
23ain o Hydref, 2014,  
14:00 – 19:00  
Neuadd Les Felindre, Felindre, Abertawe, SA5 7NA 
24ain o Hydref, 2014,  
14:00 – 19:00  
Canolfan Adnoddau Forge Fach, Heol Hebron, 
Clydach, Abertawe, SA6 5EJ  
25ain o Hydref, 2014,  
9:00 – 13:00  
Neuadd Bentref Tircoed, Y Cyswllt, Tircoed SA4 
9QZ  
16eg o Dachwedd, 2014 
Diwedd y cyfnod ymgynghori 
Chwarter 1af 2015 
Cyflwyno Cais am Orchymyn Caniatâd Datblygu 
2ail Chwarter 2015 
Mae’r Arolygiaeth Gynllunio’n hysbysu’n gyhoeddus 
bod y cais wedi’i dderbyn ac mae’n pennu amserlen 
archwilio, sy’n debygol o ddigwydd yn ystod 3ydd 
Chwarter 2014.  
 
Manylion Cysylltu 
Mae APL yn croesawu ymholiadau a sylwadau: 
Gwefan:  
www.abergellipower.co.uk 
E-bost:  
info@abergellipower.co.uk 
Post: 
Freepost RTEY-JYYB-ERSR, Abergelli Power Ltd, 49 York Place, 
Edinburgh / Caeredin EH1 3JD 
Ffôn:  
0131 550 3395 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Appendix 4.A: Phase 1 2014 SoCC and 
Consultation Plan 
4.A VII  Published 2014 SoCC Notice in South Wales Evening Post (30th 
September 2014)  
 
 
 
 
 
  
Appendix 4.A: Phase 1 2014 SoCC and 
Consultation Plan 
4.A VIII  Published 2014 SoCC Notice in South Wales Evening Post (7th 
October 2014) 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Appendix 4.A: Phase 1 2014 SoCC and 
Consultation Plan 
4.A IX  2014 Consultation Plan 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
ABERGELLI POWER PROJECT 
Abergelli Farm, 
Felindre, Swansea 
S47 CONSULTATION PLAN (including 
SoCC) 
 
30th September 2014 
www.abergellipower.co.uk   
 
 
 
September 2014 
1 
 
ABERGELLI POWER PROJECT 
 
S47 LOCAL COMMUNITY CONSULTATION PLAN,  
STATEMENT OF COMMUNITY CONSULTATION 
& 
STATEMENT OF COMMUNITY CONSULTATION NOTICE 
 
 
INTRODUCTION 
Abergelli Power Limited (“APL”) proposes to develop a gas-fired power generation 
plant and integral connections to the electricity and gas networks on land adjacent to 
the National Grid compressor station at Abergelli Farm, Felindre, Swansea SA5 
7NN, located north of the M4 (Junction 46), approximately 1km southeast of 
Felindre, 750m south-west of Llwyncelyn and 1.5km north of Llangyfelach. 
 
The proposed power generation plant would have a rated electrical output of up to 
299 megawatts (MW). Using the latest and most efficient power generating 
technology, it will burn natural gas to generate electricity that is delivered into the 
National Grid. Due to its size, the Abergelli Power Project would be a Nationally 
Significant Infrastructure Project and as such it would require a Development 
Consent Order (DCO).  
 
STATUTORY REQUIREMENTS  
The community consultation described is carried out under section 47 of the 
Planning Act 2008 (as amended); the Act sets out requirements for formal pre-
application consultation for those applications that are considered by the Planning 
Inspectorate on behalf of the relevant Secretary of State.   
 
Section 47(1) of the Planning Act 2008 states that the applicant must prepare a 
statement setting out how it proposes to consult those people, who are living in the 
vicinity of the Project Site, about the proposed application. 
 
Furthermore, a draft Statement of Community Consultation must be consulted on 
with the City & County of Swansea Council (CCS) as the local planning authority, 
before being made available to the public for inspection and publishing a notice of 
this in local newspapers.  
 
This plan sets out how Abergelli Power Limited intends to meet these s47 
consultation requirements.   A draft of the SoCC is included at Appendix 1 and a draft 
Abbreviated Statement of Community Consultation Notice (to be published in local 
press) is included at Appendix 2.  
 
 
 
 
 
September 2014 
2 
1. PURPOSE 
 
a. This document explains how Abergelli Power Limited (APL) intends to consult 
people living and working in the vicinity of the proposed gas-fired power 
generation plant and integral connections to the electricity and gas networks on 
land adjacent to the National Grid compressor station at Abergelli Farm, Felindre, 
Swansea SA5 7NN (the Project). The Project Site is situated north of Swansea in 
the City & County of Swansea (north of M4, Junction 46), approximately 1km 
southeast of Felindre, 750m south-west of Llwyncelyn and 1.5km north of 
Llangyfelach.   
 
APL: location plan and application boundary 
b. APL has been established by Watt Power Limited to develop the Project. Watt 
Power is seeking to develop electricity generation projects at Abergelli Farm and 
elsewhere in south Wales and the UK to support the UK Government’s drive to a 
low carbon economy. 
 
 
 
September 2014 
3 
c. 
The details of the consultation methodology set out in this document aim to 
explain how APL will satisfy the community consultation requirements for an 
application for a Development Consent Order (DCO) under the Planning Act 
2008, which if granted, would enable the Project to be constructed and 
operated.  APL intends to submit an application for a DCO which will be 
examined by the Planning Inspectorate on behalf of the Secretary of State for 
Energy & Climate Change (SoS). It should be noted that the application will be 
accompanied by an Environmental Statement as the development is considered 
to be an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) Development. A Preliminary 
Environmental Information Report (PEIR) will be produced which will describe 
the preliminary findings of the assessment of the likely significant environmental 
effects of the proposed Power Generation Plant and its associated 
infrastructure. The PEIR is expected to be published and made available for 
public scrutiny and consultation in the autumn of this year. 
 
d. 
APL requests that CCS, as the planning authority, reviews this document and 
the accompanying draft Statement of Community Consultation (SoCC), and 
respond with comments within 28 days so that APL can have regard to the 
comments before APL commences its Section 47 consultation activities. Once 
any comments have been received and considered, APL will publish notice of 
the SoCC in the local media and make the SoCC available to the public for 
inspection. Copies of the SoCC will also be placed in local libraries and on the 
Abergelli Power website (www.abergellipower.co.uk).  
 
e. 
As part of the DCO Application, APL is required to produce a Consultation 
Report explaining how the three strands of consultation required under the 
Planning Act 2008 (s42, s47 and s48) have been complied with. APL intends 
that its Consultation Report will include an explanation of how the relevant local 
authorities were consulted about the content of the draft SoCC and what the 
local authorities’ comments were.  The Consultation Report will demonstrate that 
the local authorities were given sufficient time to provide comments, explain how 
APL has had regard to those comments and provide evidence that the SoCC 
was made available to the public and notice published in the correct manner.  
 
September 2014 
4 
 
f. 
The Consultation Report will also explain what activities were undertaken to 
enable consultation with the local community, how those consulted responded 
and how APL had regard to representations received in the development of the 
Project and the DCO Application, prior to its submission to the SoS.  
 
g. 
This document does not set out how APL intends to undertake the other strands 
of statutory consultation and publicity relating to those organisations and 
individuals defined by Sections 42 and 48 of the Planning Act 2008.  Section 42 
of the Planning Act 2008 requires consultation with certain local authorities, 
listed statutory consultees and those with an interest in the land on which the 
proposed Project will be built and operated or who may be particularly affected 
by it. Section 48 sets out publicity requirements on a UK basis.  
 
2. 
THE PROPOSED SITE 
 
a. 
The site for the proposed Power Generation Plant (which comprises part of the 
Project) is located on land located at Abergelli Farm, on pastoral fields north of 
Swansea (north of M4, Junction 46) approximately 1 km south-east of Felindre 
and 1.4km north of Llangyfelach. The western extent of the Project Site 
encompasses National Grid’s existing 400kV Swansea North electrical 
substation and Felindre Gas Compressor Station. In addition, areas within the 
site have in the past been subject to a variety of permissions for mineral 
extraction, inert landfill and other commercial activities.  The site is wholly 
located within the principal area of City & County of Swansea Council. 
 
3. 
THE PROJECT 
 
The Project would comprise: 
• 
A new Power Generation Plant in the form of a Simple Cycle Gas Turbine 
(SCGT) gas fired peaking power generating station fuelled by natural gas and 
with a rated electrical output of between 50 and 299 megawatts (MW) 
comprising: 
 
September 2014 
5 
o 
The Generating Equipment including the Gas Turbine Generators and 
balance of plant, which are located within the Generating Equipment 
Site; 
o 
A new purpose built Access Road to the Generating Equipment Site. 
Two options are being considered: 
− From the north via the Rhyd-y-pandy Road and the existing 
access road west of Brynheulog past Abergelli Farm. The 
existing road would need to be extended to the Generating 
Equipment Site; or 
− From the west via the B4489, along the access road to  National 
Grid’s existing 400kV Swansea North electrical substation and 
Felindre Gas Compressor Station and then along a purpose built 
access road to be constructed across undeveloped land to the 
Generating Equipment Site. 
o 
During construction, a temporary construction compound (the 
Laydown Area). 
• 
A new underground Gas Connection to bring natural gas to the Generating 
Equipment from the National Transmission System (NTS) which is located 
within the Gas Connection Opportunity Area; and 
• 
A new underground Electrical Connection to export power from the Generating 
Equipment to the National Electricity Transmission System (NETS) for onward 
distribution to homes and businesses which are located within the Electrical 
Connection Opportunity Area. 
 
The Generating Equipment, Access Road and Laydown Area are together known as 
the Power Generation Plant, and are located within the Power Generation Plant Site. 
 
The Power Generation Plant, Gas Connection, and Electrical Connection, are all 
integral to the generation of electricity and together are referred to as the ‘Project’. 
The land upon which the Project would be developed, or which would be required in 
order to facilitate the development of the Project, is referred to as the ‘Project Site’.  
 
 
September 2014 
6 
4. 
CONSULTATION BACKGROUND 
 
a. 
APL is committed to open and responsive consultation with local communities 
and interested parties.  The programme recommended within this document 
sets out a framework for a formal and inclusive consultation process.  
 
b. 
The draft SoCC appended to this document is designed to meet the legal 
requirements set out in s47 of the Planning Act 2008 and follows a range of 
advice and guidance set out by the Planning Inspectorate and the Department 
for Communities & Local Government.  The consultation process is designed to 
enable informed, detailed and two-way communication. Through this process, 
relevant matters identified during consultation will be taken into account during 
the development of the proposal and before submission of the application for a 
DCO. 
 
c. 
Since June 2014, APL has actively communicated its intentions with elected 
representatives and directly within local communities, in order to introduce and 
discuss aspects of the Project.  These non-statutory information activities and 
other forthcoming initiatives will also be detailed in the Consultation Report.  
 
4.1 CONSULTATION AREAS 
 
a. 
APL proposes to carry out its consultation in two areas: a core consultation zone 
(CCZ) that equates to an approximate 3.5 km radius from the Project Site (see 
map overleaf), and an outer consultation zone (OCZ) that equates to a radius of 
approximately 8km, defined by the community council areas adjacent to that of 
the CCZ. 
 
b. 
The CCZ has been designed to include the main population areas in the vicinity 
of the Project Site that have the potential to be affected by the Project’s 
construction and operation and which are expected to have the greatest interest 
in the Project. These include the villages of Clydach, Felindre, Llangyfelach and 
Tircoed, as well as other, smaller settlements.  Whilst a 3.5km radius has been 
used as a guide, where settlements fall only partially within this area discretion 
has been exercised. 
 
September 2014 
7 
 
Proposed Core Consultation Zone – approx. 3.5km radius from the 
Project Site 
c. Whilst the Project Site is located directly within the CCS ward of Mawr the 
following neighbouring wards also fall within the proposed CCZ: 
• Clydach; 
• Llangyfelach; 
• Morriston; 
• Mynyddbach; and 
• Penllergaer. 
 
d.  The CCZ would include all or parts of the following community council areas: 
• Clydach; 
• Llangyfelach; 
• Mawr; 
 
September 2014 
8 
• Morriston;  
• Mynyddbach;  
• Penllergaer; and 
• Pontlliw & Tircoed. 
 
 
  The CCZ will be APL’s primary focus of activity when consulting about its plans.  
 
e. Communities in the OCZ will be informed about the Project and will have the 
opportunity to comment on the plans.  The OCZ includes the main population 
area of Swansea. APL does not anticipate that the communities and businesses 
that lie within the OCZ will be significantly affected by the Project’s construction 
and operation although APL recognises that they may be interested in it.  
 
f. 
Communities outside the OCZ will be informed about the Project as the 
circulation areas and reach of the media (TV, radio, printed media) that will be 
used to communicate details of the Project and the consultation activities are far 
greater than the boundaries of the OCZ. 
 
 
5. INTRODUCTORY 
INFORMATION 
PERIOD 
/ 
NON-STATUTORY 
CONSULTATION 
 
As an introduction to the Project, APL undertook an introductory information 
exercise/non-statutory consultation in June 2014. This included:  
 
a. 
Discussions with officers and councillors at CCS about the Project and the 
proposed non-statutory consultation exercise including exhibition venues and 
representatives who should be invited. 
 
b. 
As every home and business in the CCZ is represented by a CCS county 
councilor and a community council, APL communicated its plans to the local 
councils and community council, as well as the local MP Martin Caton, local AM 
Edwina Hart and regional AMs. APL has an ongoing programme of 
 
September 2014 
9 
engagement with the AMs and MP in question to discuss the Project and 
answer any questions they may have.  
 
c. 
A Project website was launched to coincide with the Project being introduced to 
the local community. The website (www.abergellipower.co.uk) provides 
information on the Project and enables people to ask questions and provide 
feedback to APL about the Project.  The website is bilingual, in both English 
and Welsh. It carries the latest information about the Project (technical, 
environmental and communications), contact details and a mechanism to 
enable people to ask questions and provide feedback.   
 
d. 
A letter of introduction about the Project was sent to approximately 5,500 
households and businesses in the immediate vicinity of the Project Site. The 
letter contained details about the Project and an invitation to attend information 
exhibitions near the Project Site. The letter was sent and distributed by Royal 
Mail a week prior to the first exhibition date, and was produced in both English 
and Welsh. 
 
e. 
Exhibitions were held at the following locations to give local people the 
maximum opportunity to attend:  
 
Thursday, June 19th - Forge Fach Community Resource Centre, Clydach 
(3.00pm till 7.00pm); 
 
Friday, June 20th - Felindre Welfare Hall, Felindre (3.00pm till 7.00pm); 
and 
 
Saturday, June 21st - Tircoed Village Hall, Tircoed (10.00am till 1.00pm) 
 
f. 
Exhibition locations were chosen because they were considered convenient to 
those communities within the CCZ that surround the Project Site. These events 
featured relevant information that was known at the time in a variety of formats 
(display panels, maps, plans, leaflet etc) about the proposal, in both English 
and Welsh.  Members of the APL project team were available to discuss the 
proposal, answer questions and to receive feedback from members of the 
 
September 2014 
10 
public. Feedback was sought during the non-statutory consultation / information 
period as to whether APL should do anything differently during the statutory 
consultation process. 
 
g. 
APL used venues that met Disability Discrimination Act 1995 requirements and 
upon a reasonable and timely request had provisions in place for those with 
special requirements who were unable to attend or access a consultation event 
(for example, private transport to the exhibition event).  
 
h. 
More than 90 people attended the exhibitions, including local councillors.  The 
local media (print, TV, radio and social media) published news reports about 
the exhibitions in advance of them being held.  
 
i. 
APL issued news releases before the exhibitions were held, and these were 
posted on the APL website.  The news releases were issued to the local media 
and reports were published in the media as a result.  
 
j. 
APL advertised the informal information exhibitions via a display advertisement 
in the South Wales Evening Post newspaper, published on June12th 2014.  
 
k. 
A leaflet about the Project was produced for people who attended the 
exhibition, and additional copies were provided to local councillors and others 
for wider dissemination. The leaflet contained details of the Project, the 
consultation process, an indicative timeframe for the Project’s development and 
also the Abergelli Power website address and contact details.  In addition, a 
feedback form was available for people to fill in on the day or to return via 
Freepost to APL.  
 
l. 
Posters advertising the consultation events were displayed at community 
venues within the CCZ, for example local shops, post offices and doctors’ 
surgeries. 
 
 
September 2014 
11 
m. 
APL will consider the provision, upon request, of written materials about the 
Project in different formats (for example, large print or braille). 
 
n. 
Comments and queries via telephone (as well as via post, email or fax) were 
accepted following the launch of the non-statutory period of consultation.  
 
o. 
In summary, the Project has been introduced to the local community which is 
now broadly aware of its key points.  The proposed statutory consultation 
process detailed in section 6.0 will therefore build upon this awareness with a 
view to gaining formal feedback from local people and interested stakeholders 
before the application for the DCO is submitted. 
 
6. STATUTORY CONSULTATION METHODOLOGY & ACCESSIBILITY 
Following the introductory information period described in section 5.0, the 
consultation programme will be conducted according to the following methodology: 
 
a. 
APL will consult with officers at CCS on the content of this consultation plan and 
the draft SoCC. 
 
b. 
APL will begin statutory consultation engagement with elected members of 
CCS, community councils, the local MP and AMs whose constituency covers the 
CCZ, as it develops its plans. 
 
c. 
APL will use elected members of CCS and community councils as 
communication channels, via meetings and correspondence, to share 
information and seek community feedback during the period of statutory 
consultation.   
 
d. 
Exhibitions/consultation events will be held at the following locations: 
 Llangyfelach Church Hall; 
 Felindre Welfare Hall; 
 Forge Fach Resource Centre, Clydach; and 
 
September 2014 
12 
 Tircoed Village Hall. 
 
e. 
After consideration of the outcomes of the non-statutory consultation process 
these are considered the most convenient to those communities within the CCZ 
that surround the Project Site. It also takes into account feedback received from 
local people and community councils in the area regarding the locations of 
exhibitions. These events will feature relevant information in a variety of formats 
(display panels, plans, leaflet etc) about the Project, in both English and Welsh. 
The Preliminary Environmental Impact Report (PEIR) will also be made 
available for review. Members of the APL project team will be available to 
discuss the Project, answer questions and to receive feedback from members of 
the public. 
 
f. 
In order to ensure that people have the maximum opportunity to attend the 
exhibitions, APL will arrange for them to be held at convenient times. An event 
will be held on a Saturday for those unable to visit during the working week. 
 
g. 
APL will use venues that meet Disability Discrimination Act 1995 requirements 
and upon a reasonable and timely request will make provision for those with 
special requirements who are unable to attend or access a consultation event 
(for example, private transport to a consultation event).  
 
h. 
In consultation with CCS, APL will share information about the Project with 
those “hard to reach groups” living and working within the CCZ. These groups 
are likely to be accessed through informal and formal channels - via council 
services and relevant specialist organisations (for example the local branches of 
the Women’s Institute and local business representative groups such as the 
South Wales Chamber of Commerce).   
 
i. 
Posters in colleges, schools, youth clubs and awareness via social media may 
be used to reach the younger members of the community, whilst consideration 
 
September 2014 
13 
will be given to presentations at local schools and colleges about the Project. 
Local schools and colleges will be notified of the consultation events. 
 
j. 
APL will advertise the consultation events via the Swansea-based South Wales 
Evening Post, for two weeks prior to the first event taking place.  In addition APL 
will announce via the issue of one or more news releases to local and regional 
news publications, the local radio and TV stations (and via online media) that 
the events are taking place.  The newspaper advertisements (and media 
coverage), will reach the CCZ, the OCZ and further afield. The content will give 
information on APL’s proposals and details of the consultation events, including 
contact information.   
 
k. 
A leaflet or letter about the Project and the consultation programme will be 
distributed by Royal Mail (and other means as required) to households, 
businesses and institutions in the CCZ at least one week in advance of the first 
consultation event, informing them of the consultation events taking place. The 
leaflet or letter will include details of the Project, the location and dates of the 
consultation events, the APL website address. This letter will be produced in 
both English and Welsh.    
 
l. 
Posters advertising the consultation events will be displayed at community 
venues within the CCZ and the OCZ, for example local libraries, local shops and 
post offices, local schools and colleges and doctors’ surgeries. 
 
m. APL will inform those community councils within the OCZ about the Project and 
the exhibition/consultation event via letter. 
 
n. 
The APL team will actively and reactively meet with individuals and interested 
groups in the local area as part of the formal consultation period to answer 
questions and provide updates about the Project.  
 
 
September 2014 
14 
o. 
The APL website will carry the latest information about the Project (technical, 
environmental and communications), contact details and a mechanism to enable 
people to ask questions and provide feedback.   
 
p. 
Comments and queries via telephone (as well as via post, email or fax) will be 
considered and addressed within the scheme where possible, as well as 
comments noted.  Comments will be accepted for a period of 35 days following 
the launch of the statutory period of consultation. These will be collated, 
considered and included in the Consultation Report that will accompany the 
DCO Application.   
 
q. 
APL may choose to undertake additional consultation and information activities. 
In addition, APL will consider the provision, upon request, of written materials 
about the Project in different formats (for example, large print or braille). 
 
r. 
All statutory and non-statutory consultation activities and efforts will be detailed 
in the Consultation Report which will accompany the DCO Application. This will 
detail the consultation activities, the feedback received and APL’s response to 
the issues that are raised during the process. 
 
ENDS 
 
September 2014 
15 
Statement of Community Consultation  
 
This Statement of Community Consultation is published in connection with a 
proposed gas-fired power station, including its integral gas and electrical 
connections, at Abergelli Farm (the Project). It explains how individuals living and 
working locally, as well as other interests such as local businesses and local 
civic/community organisations, can comment on the proposals to construct and 
operate the Project.  The Project Site is situated north of Swansea in the City & 
County of Swansea (north of M4, Junction 46), approximately 1km southeast of 
Felindre, 750m south-west of Llwyncelyn and 1.5km north of Llangyfelach.   
 
APL: location plan and application boundary 
The Project is being promoted by Abergelli Power Limited (APL), a company 
established by Watt Power Limited. Watt Power is seeking to develop gas fired 
power stations at Abergelli Farm and elsewhere in the UK to support the UK 
Government’s drive to a low carbon economy. 
  
APL has consulted City & County of Swansea Council as the local planning authority 
about the content of this Statement of Community Consultation and has had regard 
to the council’s response.   
 
September 2014 
16 
 
The capacity of the proposed Project will be in excess of 50 MW of electricity. As 
such, it is classified as a Nationally Significant Infrastructure Project (NSIP) under 
the Planning Act 2008. This requires a Development Consent Order (DCO), granted 
under the Planning Act 2008 (as amended by the Localism Act 2011 and the Growth 
and Infrastructure Act 2013 – hereafter referred to as ‘Planning Act 2008 (as 
amended)’), to build and operate, granted by the Secretary of State for Energy & 
Climate Change. 
 
The Statement of Community Consultation is part of a consultation process that APL 
is carrying out before it makes a formal application to the Secretary of State for a 
DCO. 
 
A consultation/communication plan has previously been developed and is available 
from APL or via its website www.abergellipower.co.uk. 
 
This Statement explains: 
• 
Some details about the Project; 
• 
How APL is publishing preliminary environmental information about the Project; 
• 
How APL is going to consult local people and communities about the Project 
and what activities will be undertaken to give them access to information about 
the proposal and help them to understand what particular aspects of the Project 
may mean to them, enabling them to provide informed feedback; 
• 
How people can become involved in shaping the Project before a DCO 
Application is submitted by putting forward their views to influence the Project, 
particularly regarding specific options under consideration; and 
• 
How people can provide feedback to APL from consultation activities and 
ensure that they are informed about the Project.  
 
The Project 
The key details of the proposed Project are: 
 
September 2014 
17 
• 
The construction of a Power Generation Plant with a rated electrical output of 
between 50 and 299 MW. The plant will have up to 5 stacks each up to 40m in 
height. The plant will have a dedicated access road.  
• 
The site for the Power Generation Plant covers an area of approximately 6 ha;  
• 
The Power Generation Plant will produce electricity from natural gas; 
• 
Construction of a new underground electrical connection  (up to 1km in length) 
to the National Grid and the construction of a new  underground pipeline (up to 
1.4km in length) to bring natural gas to the Power Generation Plant from the 
National Transmission System;  
• 
Creation of approximately 150 jobs during a construction period lasting two 
years and 15 permanent jobs once commercial operations have begun;    
• 
It responds to the UK Government’s need for new gas generation in order to 
underpin the country’s energy security and its transition to a low-carbon 
economy; 
• 
The station would emit about 50% less carbon dioxide (CO2) than an equivalent 
sized coal-fired power plant, and is designed to operate flexibly so that it can 
respond quickly and efficiently to short-term variation in customer demand and 
intermittent output from wind power generation; and 
• 
It is acknowledged that during construction and operation there is potential for 
adverse effects on some local communities and the environment, for example 
noise and traffic during the construction phase and the visual effects of the of 
the new stacks.  An Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) is being 
undertaken to understand and seek to minimise these and other potential effects 
of the Project’s construction and operation. More information on this process is 
provided below. The EIA process is also considering the potential positive 
effects of the operation of the Project. 
 
The Planning Process 
DCO applications for NSIPs are submitted to the Planning Inspectorate which will 
process and examine the application before making a recommendation to the 
relevant Secretary of State. The final decision on the application is made by the 
Secretary of State and if it is successful, a DCO will be made.  
 
September 2014 
18 
 
The Government's policies in relation to NSIPs are set out in National Policy 
Statements (NPSs). The Project has been developed with regard to the relevant 
Energy NPSs, in particular EN-1 (Energy), EN-2 (Fossil Fuel Electricity Generating 
Infrastructure) and EN-5 (Electricity Networks Infrastructure).  EN-1 states that "gas 
will continue to play an important role in the electricity sector- providing vital flexibility 
to support an increasing amount of low-carbon generation and to maintain security of 
supply".   
 
When determining a DCO Application, the Secretary of State must have regard to 
the relevant NPSs and must make a decision in accordance with these unless 
she/he is satisfied that the adverse impact of the Project would outweigh its benefits.  
  
When considering whether to accept an application for examination, the Planning 
Inspectorate must be satisfied that the applicant has undertaken effective pre-
application consultation.  Pre-application consultation is essential in allowing APL to 
understand and seek to minimise the effects of the Project and to allow a thorough 
examination by the Planning Inspectorate. APL is required to submit a Consultation 
Report with its application for a DCO.  This report will include details of the local 
community feedback received, explain how APL has had regard to the feedback and 
will detail how APL has complied with the consultation requirements of the Planning 
Act 2008 (as amended). 
 
The community consultation described in this statement is carried out under Section 
47 of the Planning Act 2008 (as amended). It is in addition to consultation that will be 
carried out with specific statutory consultees (such as statutory nature conservation 
bodies) and those with relevant interests in land (including owners and occupiers 
within the Project boundary) under Section 42 of the Planning Act 2008 (as 
amended). It is also in addition to wider publication of the proposed Project under 
Section 48 of the Planning Act 2008 (as amended).  
 
Information on the planning process and the NPSs can be found at:  
www.planningportal.gov.uk/planning/planninginspectorate 
 
September 2014 
19 
www.decc.gov.uk/en/content/cms/meeting_energy/consents_planning/nps_en_infra/
nps_en_infra.aspx 
 
Environmental Information & Impacts 
The Project will be designed and developed to meet or exceed current quality, safety 
and environmental standards and efforts will be made to minimise its impact on the 
local environment, both during its construction and its operation.  The extent and 
scale of the Project and APL’s proposals to mitigate its impacts will be amongst the 
issues considered by the Planning Inspectorate on behalf of the Secretary of State. 
 
Because of the nature and size of the Project, APL is undertaking an EIA. Therefore, 
the Project is classed as an EIA development. The EIA considers the potential 
impacts of the Project including: air quality; noise and vibration; ecology; water 
quality and resources; geology, ground conditions and agriculture; landscape and 
visual; traffic, transport and access; cultural heritage and archeology; and socio-
economics.  
 
APL has consulted with various statutory bodies concerning the scope of the EIA, 
including local authorities, Natural Resources Wales (NRW), the South Wales Trunk 
Road Agency, and utility providers. A request for a Scoping Opinion was submitted 
to the Planning Inspectorate on June 25th 2014, accompanied by a Scoping Report. 
The Scoping Report outlines which environmental topics will be covered by the EIA 
and how the assessments will be undertaken. The Planning Inspectorate issued its 
formal Scoping Opinion on 1st August 2014.  
 
All 
documents 
are 
available 
on 
the 
Abergelli 
Power 
website 
(www.abergellipower.co.uk) and via the dedicated section on the Planning Portal 
website: http://infrastructure.planningportal.gov.uk/projects/wales/abergelli-power/ 
 
As part of the pre-application consultation materials on the proposed Project, APL 
will publish a Preliminary Environmental Information Report (PEIR) and an 
associated non-technical summary (NTS).  The PEIR will present the information 
gathered to date and provide the results of APL’s preliminary findings of the 
assessment of the likely significant environmental effects of the Project.  It will not 
 
September 2014 
20 
set out the final findings but will include information on provisional mitigation 
measures.  During consultation, APL will make available details on landscaping 
proposals and other measures to mitigate the Project’s impact.  APL will provide 
copies of the PEIR and its associated NTS to City & County of Swansea Council as 
the local planning authority. Both documents will also be made available at: 
Swansea Central Library; local libraries; at public exhibitions held as part of the 
consultation process and on the APL website.  
 
When the EIA process is complete and APL submits its application for a DCO, it will 
be accompanied by an Environmental Statement. This will report on the likely 
significant environmental effects of the Project identified in the EIA and will explain 
the mitigation measures to avoid or reduce these.  
 
Public Consultation 
The views of the local community about the Project are important.  In June 2014, 
APL carried out a non-statutory consultation process sharing its initial plans with the 
public at three exhibitions held in Clydach, Felindre and Tircoed.  At the exhibitions 
and since, APL has received and responded to comments on the Project and its 
impact on the environment, local communities and the local economy.    
 
a. 
What are we now consulting on and when? 
In the statutory phase of consultation commencing in Autumn 2014, APL will seek 
views on the preliminary environmental information presented about the Project as 
well as on other key elements of the Project. Only after responses have been 
considered will the design be finalised and the application for a DCO be submitted. 
Responses will be invited on: 
 The preliminary findings of the assessment as to the likely significant 
environmental effects of the Project; 
 The proposed route option(s) for accessing the Project; and 
 The indicative layout of the power generation plant within the Project site. 
The consultation explained in this Statement will run for 35 days ending on 16th 
November 2014. Comments about the Project must be received by APL by this date.   
 
September 2014 
21 
 
b. 
Who will we consult with? 
The Planning Act 2008 (as amended) states that those ‘living in the vicinity of the 
land’ should be consulted.  APL has discussed the scope of the consultation with 
City & County of Swansea as the local planning authority, and has identified and 
agreed the Consultation Zones that form the basis of the community consultation.  
 
APL will carry out its consultation activities in two areas: a Core Consultation Zone 
(CCZ) that equates to an approximate radius of 3.5km from the Project Site and an 
Outer Consultation Zone (OCZ) that equates to a radius of approximately 8km.   
 
The CCZ has been designed to include the main population areas in the vicinity of 
the Project Site that have the potential to be affected by the Project and expected to 
have the greatest interest in the Project   The zone includes the villages of Clydach, 
Felindre, Llangyfelach and Tircoed, and all or parts of the following community 
council areas: Clydach, Llangyfelach, Mawr, Morriston, Mynyddbach, Penllergaer 
and Pontlliw & Tircoed. 
 
Proposed Core Consultation Zone – approx. 3.5 km radius from the Project 
Site 
 
September 2014 
22 
 
Communities within the OCZ will be informed about the Project (via newspaper 
advertisements, posters, media coverage and contact with local elected members 
and community councils in the OCZ and other relevant local organisations) and 
given the opportunity to comment on the plans.  The outer zone includes the main 
population area of the city of Swansea.   
 
APL does not anticipate that the communities and businesses which lie within the 
OCZ will be significantly impacted by the Project’s construction and operation 
although APL recognises that they may be interested in it.  Outside the two zones, 
there may well be others interested in APL’s plans. They will also be reached 
through local/regional newspaper advertising and media coverage (print, broadcast 
and social media). Feedback that is received within the consultation period will be 
considered. 
 
c. 
 How will we consult?  
APL will seek and receive people’s views through a number of activities: 
• 
Public exhibitions will be held at Clydach, Felindre, Llangyfelach and Tircoed 
within the CCZ. Feedback forms, allowing people to provide their views on the 
Project, will be available at these exhibitions; 
• 
A leaflet or letter will be delivered to households, businesses and institutions in 
the CCZ, and made available at local council offices, local libraries and other 
venues as appropriate. The leaflet will also be distributed to those groups that 
are defined as “hard to reach” (for example, the elderly, the young and minority 
groups). It will give background on the Project, the consultation process 
(including exhibitions) and how individuals can engage in it. The leaflet will be 
made available at libraries and council offices in the OCZ; 
• 
Copies of the leaflet, the SoCC, the Preliminary Environmental Information 
Report and its Non-Technical Summary as well as other information about the 
Project will be available to be inspected at the following locations: 
 
September 2014 
23 
 
City and County 
of Swansea 
Council Offices, 
Penllergaer 
Swansea SA4 9GJ 
(01792) 636000 
Swansea Central 
Library 
Civic Centre 
Oystermouth Road 
Swansea SA1 3SN 
(01792) 636464 
Clydach Library 
High Street 
Clydach, 
Swansea SA6 5LN 
(01792) 843300 
Gorseinon Library 
15 West Street 
Gorseinon 
Swansea SA4 4AA 
(01792) 516780 
Morriston Library 
Treharne Road 
Morriston 
Swansea SA6 7AA 
(01792) 516770 
Pontarddulais 
Library 
St Michael’s 
Avenue 
Pontarddulais 
Swansea SA4 8TE 
(01792) 882822 
Monday 
8.30-17.00 
8.30-20.00 
9.30-17.30 
9.00-18.00 
9.00-18.00 
9.00- 13.00 and 
14.00 - 17.00 
Tuesday 
8.30-17.00 
8.30-20.00 
9.30-17.30 
9.00-18.00 
9.00-18.00 
9.00- 13.00 and 
14.00 - 17.00 
Wednesday 
8.30-17.00 
8.30-20.00 
9.30-17.30 
9.00-18.00 
9.00-18.00 
9.00- 13.00 and 
14.00 - 17.00 
Thursday 
8.30-17.00 
8.30-20.00 
9.30-17.30 
9.00-18.00 
9.00-18.00 
9.00- 13.00 and 
14.00 - 17.00 
Friday 
8.30-16.00 
8.30-20.00 
9.30-18.30 
9.00-19.00 
9.00-18.00 
9.00- 13.00 and 
14.00 - 18.00 
Saturday 
CLOSED 
10.00-16.00 
9.30-16.30 
9.00-17.00 
9.00-17.00 
9.00- 13.00 
Sunday 
CLOSED 
10.00-16.00 
CLOSED 
CLOSED 
CLOSED 
CLOSED 
 
• 
The leaflet and other information about the Project can be made available in 
other formats (e.g. large print or braille) and languages upon request; 
• 
A website (www.abergellipower.co.uk) provides information on the Project as 
well as access to documents, and provide visitors the opportunity to ask 
questions or make comments online; 
• 
An e-mail address to which individuals can write (provided at the end of this 
document); 
• 
A Freepost mailbox to which people can send questions or comments (provided 
at the end of this document); 
• 
APL will also notify the local community about the Project and the consultation 
events via posters in the local community, newspaper advertisements and 
media coverage;  
• 
In addition, APL will contact a broad spectrum of local stakeholders. These will 
include elected representatives, local community, special interest groups 
(including those “hard to reach groups” such as the young, elderly and the 
disabled), and local business groups. APL will provide them with information on 
the Project and undertake briefings where appropriate. 
 
 
September 2014 
24 
Individuals and organisations wishing to respond should include their name and an 
address where correspondence about the response can be sent. Responses may be 
made public, subject to data protection laws. 
Comments made at any stage of the consultation process will be recorded and 
carefully considered by APL as part of the process of preparing the final proposals 
for its application to the Planning Inspectorate. 
 
KEY DATES 
ACTIVITY 
30th September 2014 
Statement of Community Consultation published 
13th October 
Consultation period starts 
PUBLIC EXHIBITIONS 
22nd October 2014, 
15.00 – 20.00 
Llangyfelach 
Church 
Hall, 
Swansea 
Road, 
Llangyfelach, Swansea SA5 7JA  
23rd 
October 
2014, 
14.00 – 19.00 
Felindre Welfare Hall, Felindre, Swansea SA5 7NA 
24th October 2014, 
14.00 – 19.00 
Forge Fach Resource Centre, Hebron Road, 
Clydach, Swansea SA6 5EJ  
25th October 2014, 
9.00 – 13.00 
Tircoed Village Hall, Y Cyswllt, Tircoed SA4 9QZ  
16th November 2014 
Consultation period closes 
Q1 2015 
DCO Application submitted 
Q2 2015 
Planning 
Inspectorate 
publically 
notifies 
the 
acceptance of application and sets examination 
timetable, likely to run during Q3 2014.  
 
Contact details 
APL welcomes queries and comments: 
Website:  
www.abergellipower.co.uk 
Email:  
info@abergellipower.co.uk 
Post: 
Freepost RTEY-JYYB-ERSR, Abergelli Power Ltd, 49 York Place, 
Edinburgh EH1 3JD 
Phone: 
0131 550 3395 
 
 
 
September 2014 
25 
Appendix 2 
 
Statement of Community Consultation Notice 
 
Abergelli Power Ltd (APL) proposes to construct and operate a gas-fired power generation 
plant and connections to the gas and electricity networks on land adjacent to the National 
Grid compressor station at Abergelli Farm, Felindre, Swansea SA5 7NN.  The proposed site 
is situated north of Swansea in the City & County of Swansea (north of M4, Junction 46), 
approximately 1km southeast of Felindre, 750m south-west of Llwyncelyn and 1.5km north 
of Llangyfelach.   
 
The project includes a power generation plant, a gas connection and an electrical 
connection that would connect the power generation plant to the existing nearby 
transmission networks.  The power generation plant would have rated electrical output of 
between 50 and 299 MW of electricity.  Subject to public consultation, planning and 
financing, it could enter commercial operation in 2019.  
 
The Project is classified as a Nationally Significant Infrastructure Project under the Planning 
Act 2008 which means a Development Consent Order (DCO) is required to build, operate 
and maintain it.   
 
Due to the nature and size of the Project, APL is undertaking an Environmental Impact 
Assessment (EIA). Therefore the Project is classified as EIA development.  The EIA will 
consider the potential impacts, both positive and negative, of the Project on topics including 
air and water quality, noise, landscape and visual impact, traffic, local ecology, archaeology 
and heritage, and socio-economics. 
 
The DCO application will be processed and examined by the Planning Inspectorate who will 
make a recommendation to the Secretary of State for Energy and Climate Change. The final 
decision on the application is made by the Secretary of State. 
 
Consultation with local people, businesses, and other organisations is an essential part of 
the DCO application process and will help to influence the final design of the project.   Only 
after all inputs have been considered will designs be finalised and the application for a DCO 
be submitted. 
 
The Government’s policies in relation to Nationally Significant Infrastructure Projects are set 
out in National Policy Statements (NPSs).  NPS EN-1 (Energy) states that "gas will continue 
to play an important role in the electricity sector- providing vital flexibility to support an 
increasing amount of low-carbon generation and to maintain security of supply."  The need 
for the Project is established through NPSs and is therefore not a topic of consultation. 
 
APL has prepared a statement setting out how it proposes to consult people living and 
working in the vicinity of the site about the proposed DCO application; this is the Statement 
of Community Consultation.  It is available for inspection at www.abergellipower.co.uk and at 
the locations listed in the following table (opening times vary).  
 
 
City and County 
of Swansea 
Council Offices, 
Penllergaer 
Swansea SA4 9GJ 
(01792) 636000 
Swansea Central 
Library 
Civic Centre 
Oystermouth Road 
Swansea SA1 3SN 
(01792) 636464 
Clydach Library 
High Street 
Clydach, 
Swansea SA6 5LN 
(01792) 843300 
Gorseinon Library 
15 West Street 
Gorseinon 
Swansea SA4 4AA 
(01792) 516780 
Morriston Library 
Treharne Road 
Morriston 
Swansea SA6 7AA 
(01792) 516770 
Pontarddulais 
Library 
St Michael’s 
Avenue 
Pontarddulais 
Swansea SA4 8TE 
(01792) 882822 
 
September 2014 
26 
Monday 
8.30-17.00 
8.30-20.00 
9.30-17.30 
9.00-18.00 
9.00-18.00 
9.00- 13.00 and 
14.00 - 17.00 
Tuesday 
8.30-17.00 
8.30-20.00 
9.30-17.30 
9.00-18.00 
9.00-18.00 
9.00- 13.00 and 
14.00 - 17.00 
Wednesday 
8.30-17.00 
8.30-20.00 
9.30-17.30 
9.00-18.00 
9.00-18.00 
9.00- 13.00 and 
14.00 - 17.00 
Thursday 
8.30-17.00 
8.30-20.00 
9.30-17.30 
9.00-18.00 
9.00-18.00 
9.00- 13.00 and 
14.00 - 17.00 
Friday 
8.30-16.00 
8.30-20.00 
9.30-18.30 
9.00-19.00 
9.00-18.00 
9.00- 13.00 and 
14.00 - 18.00 
Saturday 
CLOSED 
10.00-16.00 
9.30-16.30 
9.00-17.00 
9.00-17.00 
9.00- 13.00 
Sunday 
CLOSED 
10.00-16.00 
CLOSED 
CLOSED 
CLOSED 
CLOSED 
 
Households and businesses within an approximate 3.5km radius of the power generation 
plant site will receive a leaflet about the proposal on or around 10th October. 
 
Exhibitions about the project will be held at these locations:  
 
Wednesday 22nd October 2014 
15:00-20:00 
Llangyfelach Church Hall, Swansea Road, Llangyfelach, 
Swansea SA5 7JA  
Thursday 23rd October 2014 
14:00-19:00 
Felindre Welfare Hall, Felindre, Swansea, SA5 7NA 
Friday 24th October 2014 
14:00-19:00 
Forge Fach Resource Centre, Hebron Road, Clydach, 
Swansea, SA6 5EJ  
Saturday 25th October 2014 
09:00-13:00 
Tircoed Village Hall, Y Cyswllt, Tircoed SA4 9QZ  
 
From 13th October, information about the proposed Project, including a leaflet about the 
proposal, a Preliminary Environmental Information Report and a non-technical summary 
(which contain a preliminary assessment of the effects of the Project) will be made available 
for inspection at the same locations and on the APL website.  
 
The consultation period will be 35 days long ending on 16th November 2014, and we would 
welcome your views on or before this date.  Please include your name and an address.  
Responses may be made public, subject to data protection laws.  
 
Website: www.abergellipower.co.uk   
Email: info@abergellipower.co.uk 
Tel: 0131 550 3395 
Freepost: RTE-Y-JYYB-ERST, Abergelli Power Ltd, 49 York Place, Edinburgh EH1 3JD 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix 4.B: Phase 1 2014 SoCC Compliance 
Checklist 
 
Statement of Community Consultation (SoCC) Compliance Checklist 
Section of SoCC 
SoCC Requirement 
Compliance 
Y/N 
Response 
Environment Information & 
Impacts  
As part of the pre-application consultation 
materials on the proposed Project, APL will 
publish a Preliminary Environmental 
Information Report (PEIR) and an associated 
non-technical summary (NTS). The PEIR will 
present the information gathered to date and 
provide the results of APL’s preliminary findings 
of the assessment of the likely significant 
environmental effects of the Project. It will not 
set out the final findings but will include 
information on provisional mitigation measures. 
 
Y 
The PEIR and PEIR NTS were provided as consultation 
materials at the commencement of statutory section 47 and 
section 42 consultation (Section 3.6; Appendix 4.C of 
Consultation Report). 
 
Environment Information & 
Impacts 
During consultation, APL will make available 
details on landscaping proposals and other 
measures to mitigate the Project’s impact. 
Y 
The PEIR and PEIR NTS included details on landscaping 
proposals and other mitigation measures and were 
provided as consultation materials at the commencement 
of statutory section 47 and section 42 consultation (Section 
3.6; Appendix 4.C of Consultation Report). 
Environment Information & 
Impacts 
APL will provide copies of the PEIR and its 
associated NTS to City & County of Swansea 
Council as the local planning authority. 
Y 
APL provided copies of the PEIR and PEIR NTS to CCS 
prior to the commencement of statutory consultation 
(Section 3.6; Appendix 4.C of Consultation Report). 
Environment Information & 
Impacts 
 
Both documents will also be made available at: 
Swansea Central Library; local libraries; at 
public exhibitions held as part of the 
consultation process and on the APL website. 
Y 
The PEIR and PEIR NTS were made available throughout 
statutory consultation at: Swansea Central Library, Clydach 
Library, Gorseinon Library, Morriston Library, and 
Pontarddulais Library; at the public exhibitions at 
Llangelyfach, Felindre, Clydach and Tircoed; and on the 
APL website (Section 3.6 of Consultation Report) 
Section of SoCC 
SoCC Requirement 
Compliance 
Y/N 
Response 
Public Consultation 
At the exhibitions and since, APL has received 
and responded to comments on the Project and 
its impact on the environment, local 
communities and the local economy 
Y 
APL has considered the feedback received during 
consultation, as recorded within section 5.3 and Appendix 
6.B and 6.D of the Consultation Report.  APL will maintain 
on-going engagement with key stakeholders, the local 
community and local authorities and respond to queries in 
relation to the Project as they arise. (Section 5.4 of 
Consultation Report) 
Public Consultation 
 
What are we consulting on and 
when? 
In the statutory phase of consultation 
commencing in Autumn 2014, APL will seek 
views on the preliminary environmental 
information presented about the Project as well 
as on other key elements of the Project 
Y 
The aim of the statutory section 47 phase of consultation 
was to seek the views of the local community on the 
preliminary environmental information presented about the 
Project as well as on other key elements of the Project.  
The PEIR and PEIR NTS were available at the exhibition, 
and a feedback form requested comments on the findings 
of the PEIR. (Section 3.6; Appendix 4.C of Consultation 
Report). 
Public Consultation 
 
What are we consulting on and 
when? 
Only after responses have been considered will 
the design be finalised and the application for a 
DCO be submitted. 
Y 
APL has considered the feedback received during statutory 
consultation, as recorded within section 5.3 and Appendix 
6.B and 6.D of the Consultation Report.  Comments 
received during the statutory consultation phase led to a 
number of Project outcomes (section 5.3 of the 
Consultation Report) prior to the submission of the 
Application. 
 
Public Consultation 
 
What are we consulting on and 
when? 
Responses will be invited on: 
 
 
The preliminary findings of the assessment 
as to the likely significant environmental 
Y 
The aim of the statutory section 47 phase of consultation 
was to seek the views of the local community on the 
preliminary environmental information presented about the 
Project as well as on other key elements of the Project, 
including the two proposed access route options and the 
Section of SoCC 
SoCC Requirement 
Compliance 
Y/N 
Response 
effects of the Project; 
 
The proposed route option(s) for accessing 
the Project; and 
 
The indicative layout of the power 
generation plant within the Project site. 
 
indicative layout of the power generation plant within the 
Project Site. (Section 3.6 of Consultation Report) 
Public Consultation 
 
What are we consulting on and 
when? 
The consultation explained in this Statement 
will run for 35 days ending on 16th November 
2014. Comments about the Project must be 
received by APL by this date. 
Y 
APL undertook statutory Section 47 consultation with the 
local community between 13th October 2014 and 16th 
November 2014. (Section 3.6 of Consultation Report) 
Public Consultation  
 
Who will we consult with? 
The Planning Act 2008 (as amended) states 
that those ‘living in the vicinity of the land’ 
should be consulted. APL has discussed the 
scope of the consultation with City & County of 
Swansea as the local planning authority, and 
has identified and agreed the Consultation 
Zones that form the basis of the community 
consultation. 
Y 
APL undertook statutory section 47 consultation in two 
defined areas: a core consultation zone (CCZ), equating to 
a radius of approximately 3.5km from the Project Site; and 
an outer consultation zone (OCZ), equating to a radius of 
approximately 8km from the Project Site.  Leaflets were 
delivered to 13,000 households, businesses and 
institutions in the CCZ prior to the first exhibition. Four 
public exhibitions were held within the CCZ in October 
2014. (Section 3.6 of Consultation Report) 
 
Public Consultation  
 
Who will we consult with? 
APL will carry out its consultation activities in 
two areas: a Core Consultation Zone (CCZ) 
that equates to an approximate radius of 3.5km 
from the Project Site and an Outer Consultation 
Zone (OCZ) that equates to a radius of 
Y 
APL undertook statutory section 47 consultation in two 
defined areas: a core consultation zone (CCZ), equating to 
a radius of approximately 3.5km from the Project Site; and 
an outer consultation zone (OCZ), equating to a radius of 
approximately 8km from the Project Site.  Leaflets were 
Section of SoCC 
SoCC Requirement 
Compliance 
Y/N 
Response 
approximately 8km. 
delivered to 13,000 households, businesses and 
institutions in the CCZ prior to the first exhibition.  
Communities within the OCZ were also informed about the 
Project and given the opportunity to comment on the plans. 
Four public exhibitions were held within the CCZ in 
October 2014. (Section 3.6 of Consultation Report) 
Public Consultation  
 
Who will we consult with? 
Communities within the OCZ will be informed 
about the Project (via newspaper 
advertisements, posters, media coverage and 
contact with local elected members and 
community councils in the OCZ and other 
relevant local organisations) and given the 
opportunity to comment on the plans. APL does 
not anticipate that the communities and 
businesses which lie within the OCZ will be 
significantly impacted by the Project’s 
construction and operation although APL 
recognises that they may be interested in it. 
 
Y 
Communities within the OCZ were informed about the 
Project via a number of different means, including 
newspaper adverts, media coverage and updates to the 
Project website.   
 
A notice providing details of the Project was published in 
The Independent, London Gazette and South Wales 
Evening Post prior to the commencement of statutory 
consultation; and adverts were published in the South 
Wales Evening Post giving prior notice of the exhibitions.  
The project website was updated to provide links to the 
PEIR, PEIR NTS, SoCC, and background information on 
the Project and planning and consultation process.  The 
Project was also subject to a degree of media coverage 
(national print media, local print media, online media and 
televised media) during the statutory phase of consultation. 
(Section 3.6 of Consultation Report)    
Public Consultation  
 
Who will we consult with? 
Outside the two zones, there may well be 
others interested in APL’s plans.  They will also 
be reached through local/regional newspaper 
advertising and media coverage (print, 
broadcast and social media). Feedback that is 
received within the consultation period will be 
Y 
Communities within the OCZ were informed about the 
Project via a number of different means, including 
newspaper adverts, media coverage and updates to the 
Project website.   
 
A notice providing details of the Project was published in 
Section of SoCC 
SoCC Requirement 
Compliance 
Y/N 
Response 
considered. 
The Independent, London Gazette and South Wales 
Evening Post prior to the commencement of statutory 
consultation; and adverts were published in the South 
Wales Evening Post giving prior notice of the exhibitions.  
The project website was updated to provide links to the 
PEIR, PEIR NTS, SoCC, and background information on 
the Project and planning and consultation process.  The 
Project was also subject to a degree of media coverage 
(national print media, local print media, online media and 
televised media) during the statutory phase of consultation. 
(Section 3.6 of Consultation Report)    
Public Consultation  
 
Who will we consult? 
Public exhibitions will be held at Clydach, 
Felindre, Llangyfelach and Tircoed within the 
CCZ. Feedback forms, allowing people to 
provide their views on the Project, will be 
available at these exhibitions. 
 
Y 
Four public exhibitions were held within the CCZ at 
Llangelyfach (22nd October 2014), Felindre (23rd October 
2014), Clydach (24th October 2014) and Tircoed (25th 
October 2014.  A feedback form (available in English and 
Welsh) was available for attendees to complete at the 
exhibition or to return via Freepost to APL.  (Section 3.6 of 
Consultation Report)    
Public Consultation  
 
Who will we consult? 
A leaflet or letter will be delivered to 
households, businesses and institutions in the 
CCZ, and made available at local council 
offices, local libraries and other venues as 
appropriate. The leaflet will also be distributed 
to those groups that are defined as “hard to 
reach” (for example, the elderly, the young and 
minority groups). It will give background on the 
Project, the consultation process (including 
exhibitions) and how individuals can engage in 
it. The leaflet will be made available at libraries 
Y 
Prior to the first exhibition, a leaflet containing an invitation 
to attend the public exhibitions was delivered to 13,000 
households, businesses and institutions in the CCZ, 
including those groups that are defined as “hard to reach”.  
The leaflet, SoCC, PEIR and PEIR NTS were available for 
inspection at CCS offices and libraries within the CCZ and 
OCZ. (Section 3.6 of Consultation Report) 
Section of SoCC 
SoCC Requirement 
Compliance 
Y/N 
Response 
and council offices in the OCZ. 
Public Consultation  
 
Who will we consult? 
Copies of the leaflet, the SoCC, the Preliminary 
Environmental Information Report and its Non-
Technical Summary as well as other 
information about the Project will be available 
to be inspected at the following locations: 
 
 
City and County of Swansea Council 
Offices,  
 
Swansea Central Library,  
 
Clydach Library,  
 
Gorseinon Library,  
 
Morriston Library,  
 
Pontarddulais Library 
 
Y 
The leaflet, SoCC, PEIR and PEIR NTS were available for 
inspection at CCS offices and libraries within the CCZ and 
OCZ (CCS Council Offices, Swansea Central Library, 
Clydach Library, Gorseinon Library, Morriston Library, 
Pontarddulais Library). (Section 3.6 of Consultation Report) 
Public Consultation  
 
Who will we consult? 
The leaflet and other information about the 
Project can be made available in other formats 
(e.g. large print or braille) and languages upon 
request 
Y 
APL considered the provision of written materials in 
different formats (for example, large print or braille) upon 
request. (Section 3.6 of Consultation Report) 
Public Consultation  
 
Who will we consult? 
A website (www.abergellipower.co.uk) provides 
information on the Project as well as access to 
documents, and provide visitors the opportunity 
to ask questions or make comments online 
Y 
The Project website was updated by APL at the 
commencement of statutory consultation to provide links to 
the PEIR, PEIR NTS and SoCC as well as to provide 
background information on the Project and the planning 
and consultation process.  The Project website also 
provided opportunity for members of the local community 
to contact the Project team to provide additional feedback 
or queries during the statutory consultation phase. (Section 
3.6 of Consultation Report) 
Section of SoCC 
SoCC Requirement 
Compliance 
Y/N 
Response 
Public Consultation  
 
Who will we consult? 
An e-mail address to which individuals can 
write (provided at the end of this document) 
Y 
APL provided an email address 
(info@abergellipower.co.uk) in statutory consultation 
materials and at the public exhibitions in order to allow 
members of the local community to contact the Project 
team to provide additional feedback or queries during the 
statutory consultation phase. (Section 3.6 of Consultation 
Report) 
Public Consultation  
 
Who will we consult? 
A Freepost mailbox to which people can send 
questions or comments (provided at the end of 
this document) 
Y 
APL provided a Freepost address (Freepost RTEY-JYYB-
ERSR, Abergelli Power Ltd, 49 York Place, Edinburgh, 
EH1 3JD) in statutory consultation materials and at the 
public exhibitions in order to allow members of the local 
community to contact the Project team to provide additional 
feedback or queries during the statutory consultation 
phase. (Section 3.6 of Consultation Report) 
Public Consultation  
 
Who will we consult? 
APL will also notify the local community about 
the Project and the consultation events via 
posters in the local community, newspaper 
advertisements and media coverage 
Y 
APL notified the local community about the Project and the 
consultation events via: leaflets delivered to 13,000 
households, businesses and institutions in the CCZ; 
posters displayed at community venues within the CCZ; 
adverts in the local newspaper; updates to the Project 
website; and publicity within print media, online media and 
televised media. 
 
Public Consultation  
 
Who will we consult? 
APL will contact a broad spectrum of local 
stakeholders. These will include elected 
representatives, local community, special 
interest groups (including those “hard to reach 
groups” such as the young, elderly and the 
disabled), and local business groups. APL will 
Y 
APL has sought to inform and consult key stakeholders 
about the Project from an early stage and on an ongoing 
basis throughout the evolution of the Project, via a number 
of briefing meetings and discussions. (Section 3.4 of 
Consultation Report) 
 
Section of SoCC 
SoCC Requirement 
Compliance 
Y/N 
Response 
provide them with information on the Project 
and undertake briefings where appropriate. 
Following liaison with CCS, letters with information on the 
Project and the consultation process were sent to ‘hard to 
reach’ groups prior to the commencement of statutory 
consultation. (Section 3.6 of Consultation Report) 
Public Consultation  
 
Who will we consult? 
Comments made at any stage of the 
consultation process will be recorded and 
carefully considered by APL as part of the 
process of preparing the final proposals for its 
application to the Planning Inspectorate. 
Y 
APL has considered the feedback received during 
consultation, as recorded within section 5.3 and Appendix 
6.B and 6.D of the Consultation Report.  Comments 
received during the statutory consultation phase led to a 
number of Project outcomes (section 5.3 of the 
Consultation Report) prior to the submission of the 
Application. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix 4.C: Phase 1 2014 PEIR NTS 
 
September 2014  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ABERGELLI POWER PROJECT 
PRELIMINARY ENVIRONMENTAL 
INFORMATION REPORT NON-
TECHNICAL SUMMARY 
Abergelli Power Ltd  
 
PB Ref: 287521A 
PINS Ref: EN010069 
 
 
 
 
Abergelli Power Project 
Preliminary Environmental 
Information Report Non-
Technical Summary 
PB Ref: 287521A 
PINS Ref: EN010069 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   Prepared for 
Abergelli Power Ltd 
49 York Place 
Edinburgh 
EH1 3JD  
 
 
Prepared by 
Parsons Brinckerhoff 
The Forum 
Barnfield Road  
Exeter 
EX1 1QR 
 
 
 
01392 229700  www.pbworld.com  
 
 
 
 
Report Title 
: 
Abergelli Power Project Preliminary 
Environmental Information Report Non-Technical 
Summary 
 
PIMS Number 
: 
 
 
Report Status 
: 
Final 
 
Job No 
: 
287521A 
 
Date 
: 
September 2014 
 
 
DOCUMENT HISTORY AND STATUS 
Document control 
Prepared by 
Daniel Allwood 
Checked by 
(technical) 
Amy Hallam 
Approved by 
Marcus Wood 
Checked by  
(quality assurance) 
Marcus Wood 
Revision details 
Version 
Date 
Pages  
affected 
Comments 
1.0 
September 
2014 
 
Issue 
 
 
 
AUTHORISATION SHEET 
 
Client: 
Abergelli Power Ltd 
Project: 
Abergelli Power Project 
Address: 
49 York Place, Edinburgh EH1 3JD 
PREPARED BY 
Name: 
Daniel Allwood 
Position: 
Graduate Town Planner 
Date: 
September 2014 
AGREED BY 
Name: 
Amy Hallam 
Position: 
Principal Town Planner 
Date: 
September 2014 
AUTHORISED FOR ISSUE 
Name: 
Marcus Wood 
Position: 
Technical Director 
Date: 
September 2014 
DISTRIBUTION 
ACCEPTED BY 
Name: 
Adam Heffill 
Position: 
Project Manager 
Date: 
September 2014 
ACCEPTED BY 
Name: 
Norman Campbell 
Position: 
Vice President 
Date: 
September 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
Abergelli Power Project Preliminary 
Environmental Information Report Non-
Technical Summary 
 
PEIR NTS fv2 
Prepared by Parsons Brinckerhoff 
August 2014 
for Abergelli Power Ltd  
 
 
CONTENTS 
Page 
1 
Introduction 
1 
1.1 
Overview 
1 
1.2 
The Project 
2 
1.3 
Application for Development Consent 
5 
1.4 
The Applicant 
5 
1.5 
Needs and Benefits of the Project 
5 
2 
Site and Surroundings 
6 
3 
Regulatory and Policy Background 
8 
4 
Environmental Impact Assessment 
8 
5 
Alternatives 
10 
5.1 
Alternative Project Sites 
10 
5.2 
Project Site Boundary 
10 
5.3 
Power Generation Plant 
10 
5.4 
Access Road 
10 
5.5 
Electrical Connection 
13 
5.6 
Gas Connection 
15 
6 
Air Quality 
15 
6.2 
Assessment Methodology 
15 
6.3 
Baseline Conditions and Receptors 
15 
6.4 
Preliminary Assessment 
15 
7 
Noise and Vibration 
16 
7.2 
Assessment Methodology 
16 
7.3 
Baseline Conditions and Receptors 
18 
7.4 
Preliminary Assessment 
18 
8 
Ecology 
18 
8.2 
Assessment Methodology 
19 
8.3 
Baseline Conditions and Receptors 
19 
8.4 
Preliminary Assessment 
22 
9 
Water Quality and Resources 
22 
9.2 
Assessment Methodology 
22 
9.3 
Baseline Conditions and Receptors 
23 
9.4 
Preliminary Assessment 
25 
10 
Geology, Ground Condition and Hydrogeology 
25 
10.2 
Assessment Methodology 
25 
10.3 
Baseline Conditions and Receptors 
26 
10.4 
Preliminary Assessment 
26 
11 
Landscape and Visual Impacts 
26 
11.2 
Assessment Methodology 
27 
 
 
Abergelli Power Project Preliminary 
Environmental Information Report Non-
Technical Summary 
 
PEIR NTS fv2 
Prepared by Parsons Brinckerhoff 
August 2014 
for Abergelli Power Ltd  
 
 
11.3 
Baseline Conditions and Receptors 
29 
11.4 
Preliminary Assessment 
30 
12 
Traffic, Transport and Access 
31 
12.2 
Assessment Methodology 
31 
12.3 
Baseline Conditions and Receptors 
31 
12.4 
Preliminary Assessment 
32 
13 
Archaeology and Cultural Heritage 
32 
13.2 
Assessment Methodology 
33 
13.3 
Baseline Conditions and Receptors 
33 
13.4 
Preliminary Assessment 
35 
14 
Socio-Economics 
35 
14.2 
Assessment Methodology 
35 
14.3 
Baseline Conditions and Receptors 
36 
14.4 
Preliminary Assessment 
37 
15 
Other Effects Considered 
37 
16 
Cumulative Effects 
37 
17 
Summary 
38 
 
 
 
Abergelli Power Project Preliminary 
Environmental Information Report Non-
Technical Summary 
 
PEIR NTS fv2 
Prepared by Parsons Brinckerhoff 
August 2014 
for Abergelli Power Ltd  
 
- 1 - 
1 
INTRODUCTION  
1.1 
Overview 
1.1.1 
This document is the non-technical summary of the Preliminary 
Environmental Information Report (PEIR) prepared for the proposed 
Abergelli Power Project (hereafter referred to as ‘the Project’). The 
PEIR has been prepared by Parsons Brinckerhoff on behalf of Abergelli 
Power Limited (APL). 
1.1.2 
The Project proposed is a gas-fired power station with a rated electrical 
output of between 50 and 299 Megawatts (MW).  It is intended to be a 
‘peaking’ plant designed to operate when there is a surge in demand 
for electricity associated with a particular stress event (e.g. where there 
is a sudden demand in power required by consumers or a sudden drop 
in power being generated by plants which are constantly operational, 
such as a sudden outage).   
1.1.3 
An Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) is being undertaken to 
determine the likely significant effects of the project on the 
environment. The purpose of the PEIR is to present preliminary 
environmental information relating to the Project, including the 
preliminary findings of the EIA.  This will enable consultees, including 
the local community, to understand the potential likely significant 
environmental effects of the Project, so they can provide a 
comprehensive response to the consultation.  
1.1.4 
Copies of the PEIR, NTS and other consultation material including 
APL’s Statement of Community Consultation will be available at five 
local libraries as well as City and County of Swansea Council offices 
during the statutory consultation period from 13th October 2014 to 16th 
November 2014. In addition, the PEIR, NTS and other consultation 
material 
will 
be 
available 
on 
the 
APL 
website 
(www.abergellipower.co.uk) from 13th October 2014 and at public 
exhibitions which will be held by APL in Llangyfelach, Felindre, Clydach 
and Tircoed between 22nd and 25th October 2014.  Feedback received 
during the consultation process will help inform the development and 
design of the Project. Further detail about how feedback can be 
provided to APL is available in the Statement of Community 
Consultation. 
1.1.5 
Once complete, the findings of the EIA will be reported in full in the 
Environmental Statement to be submitted with the Application for a 
Development Consent Order. 
 
 
Abergelli Power Project Preliminary 
Environmental Information Report Non-
Technical Summary 
 
PEIR NTS fv2 
Prepared by Parsons Brinckerhoff 
August 2014 
for Abergelli Power Ltd  
 
- 2 - 
1.2 
The Project 
1.2.1 
The Project (see Figure 1.1) would comprise: 
 A new Power Generation Plant in the form of a Simple Cycle 
Gas Turbine (SCGT) generating station fuelled by natural gas 
and with a rated electrical output of up to 299 MW which will 
operate during peak demand comprising; 
o 
The Generating Equipment including the Gas Turbine 
Generators and Plant which are located on the Generating 
Equipment Site; 
o 
A new Access Road to the Generating Equipment Site.  
Two options are currently under consideration:  from the 
north via Rhyd-y-pandy Road (Option 1); or from the west 
via the B4489 (Option 2); 
o 
A temporary construction compound (Laydown Area); 
 A new Gas Connection to bring natural gas to the Generating 
Equipment from the National Transmission System; and 
 A new Electrical Connection to export power from the 
Generating 
Equipment 
to 
the 
National 
Grid 
Electricity 
Transmission System (NETS) for distribution to homes and 
businesses. 
1.2.2 
The Generating Equipment, Access Road and Laydown Area are 
together known as the Power Generation Plant, and are located within 
the Power Generation Plant Site.  
1.2.3 
The land upon which the Project would be developed, or which would 
be required in order to facilitate the development of the Project, is 
referred to as the 'Project Site'. Figure 1.1 shows how the elements of 
the Project relate to each other.  
1.2.4 
The Generating Equipment would consist of between one and five Gas 
Turbine Generators (and associated stacks of up to 40m). However, 
the combined rated electrical output will not exceed 299MW. 
1.2.5 
In the Gas Turbine Generators air is compressed and natural gas is 
injected. The fuel will then burn in the combustion chamber producing 
hot, high pressure gases. This gas expands across the blades of the 
gas turbine which drives the electrical generators to produce electricity. 
The exhaust silencer will reduce noise pollution from this process. 
 
 
Abergelli Power Project Preliminary 
Environmental Information Report Non-
Technical Summary 
 
PEIR NTS fv2 
Prepared by Parsons Brinckerhoff 
August 2014 
for Abergelli Power Ltd  
 
- 3 - 
1.2.6 
The waste gases and heat produced from this process will be released 
to the atmosphere via stacks. The stack(s) will be equipped with 
emissions control technologies which will reduce emissions released to 
the atmosphere.
 
 
Abergelli Power Project Preliminary Environmental Information Report Non-
Technical Summary 
 
PEIR NTS fv2 
Prepared by Parsons Brinckerhoff 
August 2014 
for Abergelli Power Ltd  
 
- 4 - 
 
Figure 1.1: Project Description 
 
The Project
Electrical 
Connection
Gas Connection
Above Ground 
Installation 
Minimum Offtake 
Connection
Pipeline 
Inspection Gauge 
Trap Facility
Gas Pipeline
Power Generation 
Plant
Generating 
Equipment
Gas Turbine 
Generators
Tanks
Administrative 
Building
Stacks
Gas Receiving 
Facility 
Banking 
Compound
Access Road
Laydown Area
 
 
Abergelli Power Project Preliminary 
Environmental Information Report Non-
Technical Summary 
 
PEIR NTS fv2 
Prepared by Parsons Brinckerhoff 
August 2014 
for Abergelli Power Ltd  
 
- 5 - 
1.2.7 
A Construction Environmental Management Plan will be prepared to 
mitigate environmental effects during construction.  This will include 
measures to control dust, litter, noise and spillages.  A Construction 
Traffic Management Plan will be prepared which will set out the routes 
construction traffic must use and during which hours.  A Travel Plan will 
be prepared to encourage construction workers to minimise use of the 
private car. 
1.3 
Application for Development Consent 
1.3.1 
In Wales, an onshore electricity generating station is considered to be a 
Nationally Significant Infrastructure Project (NSIP) under the Planning 
Act 20081 if its generating capacity is more than 50 MW. As the Project 
would have an electrical generating capacity of more than 50 MW it 
would be classified as a NSIP and therefore a Development Consent 
Order is required. It is therefore intended that an Application for a 
Development Consent Order will be submitted to the Planning 
Inspectorate for examination on behalf of the Secretary of State for 
Energy and Climate Change. 
1.4 
The Applicant 
1.4.1 
The Project Applicant is APL. APL is an energy development company 
established for the Project by Watt Power Limited.  Further information 
on the companies is provided at http://www.abergellipower.co.uk and 
http://www.wattpowerltd.co.uk. 
1.5 
Needs and Benefits of the Project 
1.5.1 
There is considerable national need for this type of development, 
acknowledged at all levels of Government policy. National planning 
policy supports the need for new electricity infrastructure due to the 
current ageing and closure of coal-fired power plants and the likely 
increase in demand for electricity over the coming decades. 
1.5.2 
Gas is a reliable fuel source. It is acknowledged by the Government as 
being essential to a low-carbon economy and to underpin the country’s 
energy security. In addition, gas peaking plants such as the Project 
provide back-up to power generation from renewable sources, 
particularly wind power, which is an increasingly prevalent but 
intermittent energy source. Modern gas-fired power plants are among 
the most efficient and cleanest forms of electricity power generation.   
                                                      
1 Planning Act 2008 http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2008/29/contents  
 
 
Abergelli Power Project Preliminary 
Environmental Information Report Non-
Technical Summary 
 
PEIR NTS fv2 
Prepared by Parsons Brinckerhoff 
August 2014 
for Abergelli Power Ltd  
 
- 6 - 
2 
SITE AND SURROUNDINGS 
2.1.1 
The Project Site is situated predominantly on farmland and will be 
accessed from Junction 46 of the M4 to the north of Swansea, in the 
administrative area of the City and County of Swansea Council.  It is 
approximately 1 km southeast of Felindre, 760 m west of Llwyncelyn 
and 1.4 km north of Llangyfelach. 
2.1.2 
From the M4 there are two access options being considered at this 
stage: Option 1 from the north via the Rhyd-y-pandy Road utilising the 
existing farm road which runs north/south; and Option 2 from the west 
via the B4489 utilising the existing National Grid road and then via 
agricultural land to the west of the Generating Equipment Site and land 
following the southern boundary of the Gas Compressor Station. 
2.1.3 
Part of the Project Site is currently used for grazing as well as horse 
training and breeding. The western extent of the Project Site 
encompasses National Grid’s Swansea North electrical substation and 
Felindre Gas Compressor Station. 
2.1.4 
The Power Generation Plant Site is located primarily within fields used 
for grazing bounded by a mixture of drainage ditches, fencing and 
defunct hedgerows with substantial gaps in them.  
2.1.5 
The Gas Connection is located north of the Generating Equipment Site 
crossing farmland.  The Electrical Connection is located to the south 
west of the Generating Equipment Site linking in to the existing Gas 
Compressor Station.  
2.1.6 
The area surrounding the Project Site is partly rural with some existing 
and planned urban fringe development (e.g. Park and Ride Facilities) 
together with a substantial amount of utilities infrastructure in the area. 
 
 
Abergelli Power Project Preliminary 
Environmental Information Report Non-
Technical Summary 
 
PEIR NTS fv2 
Prepared by Parsons Brinckerhoff 
August 2014 
for Abergelli Power Ltd  
 
- 7 - 
 
Figure 2.1 Site Location Plan 
 
 
Abergelli Power Project Preliminary 
Environmental Information Report Non-
Technical Summary 
 
PEIR NTS fv2 
Prepared by Parsons Brinckerhoff 
August 2014 
for Abergelli Power Ltd  
 
- 8 - 
3 
 REGULATORY AND POLICY BACKGROUND 
3.1.1 
The EIA takes into account all relevant European Union Directives and 
National Policy Statements which relate specifically to NSIPs, Welsh 
and local planning policy, and other relevant policy and guidance. 
4 
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT  
4.1.1 
In accordance with the Planning Act 2008, as amended, and the 
Infrastructure Planning (EIA) Regulations 2009, the EIA process for the 
Project includes the following: 
 
Establishing, through consultation, the scope of the EIA including 
obtaining a Scoping Opinion from the Secretary of State; 
 
Consideration of any potential technical and environmental 
alternatives; 
 
Establishing a comprehensive understanding of the existing 
baseline environmental conditions for the Project Site and the 
relevant study areas for each topic; 
 
Identifying the potential environmental effects resulting from the 
construction, operation and decommissioning of the Project; 
 
Determining how the potential environmental effects can be 
avoided, reduced or off-set; 
 
Assessing the significance of the potential environmental effects 
in conjunction with other effects arising from the Project and 
those 
from 
other 
reasonably 
foreseeable 
neighbouring 
developments and/or sources; and 
 
Proposing options as to how any significant adverse residual 
effects will be mitigated, managed and monitored. 
4.1.2 
APL requested a Scoping Opinion from Planning Inspectorate in June 
2014. The request was supported by a Scoping Report that described 
the anticipated significant environmental issues that will require detailed 
evaluation as part of the EIA process. The Scoping Opinion was 
received in August 2014. It has allowed for agreement on the potential 
likely significant environmental effects of the Project and, therefore, the 
aspects of the environment on which the EIA should focus. 
4.1.3 
The organisations that have been consulted so far include: 
  Natural Resources Wales; 
 South and West Wales Wildlife Trust; 
 Abertawe Bro Morgannwy; 
 
 
Abergelli Power Project Preliminary 
Environmental Information Report Non-
Technical Summary 
 
PEIR NTS fv2 
Prepared by Parsons Brinckerhoff 
August 2014 
for Abergelli Power Ltd  
 
- 9 - 
 Civil Aviation Authority;  
 Ministry of Defence; 
 Cadw; 
 Brecon Beacons National Park Authority; 
 City and County of Swansea Council; 
 Network Rail; and 
 The Coal Authority. 
4.1.4 
The detailed design of the Project will take place at a later stage in the 
development process, and only after a successful DCO application. At 
this stage the Project is described using maximum (and in some cases 
minimum) parameters which cannot be exceeded. As described in 
section 2 above, the Project would include up to five Gas Turbine 
Generators each with a stack of up to 40m in height. Therefore, the 
assessment of the Project for each topic is carried out on the basis of 
the worst case scenario from within the parameters for that topic (this is 
known as the Rochdale envelope approach and is an accepted method 
for describing and assessing projects of this type).  
4.1.5 
The PEIR is an intermediate step in the EIA process which provides a 
preliminary assessment and highlights which issues needs to be 
assessed further.  
4.1.6 
Due to the nature and location of the Project, it is considered that there 
will be no impacts caused by the Project that will affect any other EU 
Member State.  A Transboundary Screening assessment has been 
undertaken by the Planning Inspectorate which confirms this approach. 
4.1.7 
This Report provides a non-technical summary of all of the topic areas 
with the PEIR, which are as follows: 
 Air Quality; 
 Noise and Vibration; 
 Ecology; 
 Water Quality and Resources; 
 Geology, Ground Conditions and Hydrogeology; 
 Landscape and Visual;  
 Traffic, Transport and Access; 
 Archaeology and Cultural Heritage; and  
 Socio-Economics. 
 
 
Abergelli Power Project Preliminary 
Environmental Information Report Non-
Technical Summary 
 
PEIR NTS fv2 
Prepared by Parsons Brinckerhoff 
August 2014 
for Abergelli Power Ltd  
 
- 10 - 
5 
ALTERNATIVES 
5.1 
Alternative Project Sites 
5.1.1 
The choice of site for the Power Generation Plant has been carefully 
considered with various sites investigated and a number of factors 
looked at during this process. The main factors determining the 
selection of the Power Generation Plant Site are: proximity to Gas and 
Electrical Connection points; setting; and road access. The Project Site 
has been selected as it presents the best option in terms of the 
determining factors detailed above. 
5.2 
Project Site Boundary 
5.2.1 
The Project Site boundary outlined in red on Figure 2.1 has been 
reduced in size from the ‘Scoping’ stage to take account of the design 
refinement, including seeking to avoid environmentally sensitive areas, 
in relation to Gas and Electrical Connection routes.   
5.3 
Power Generation Plant 
5.3.1 
The Generating Equipment would be designed as a peaking plant and 
would operate for up to 1,500 hours per year. Peaking plants are 
required to operate when there is a ‘stress event’. This occurs when 
there is a surge in demand for electricity or where there is a sudden 
drop in power being generated from plants which are constantly 
operational. Given these parameters, it has been determined that a 
Simple Cycle Gas Turbine plant is the preferred and most appropriate 
technology choice for the Project, based on a range of environmental, 
technical and feasibility considerations including visual impact, use of 
water resources, noise and available space. The other technology 
choices considered at this stage included aero-derivative gas turbine 
generators and industrial gas turbine generators.  
5.3.2 
The potential for using Combined Heat and Power opportunities with 
these technologies was also considered. However it is not technically 
or economically feasible with a peaking power station because the 
generation of electrical energy from the station cannot be guaranteed to 
coincide with the required heat demand of any potential customer. 
5.4 
Access Road 
5.4.1 
There are two options for road access which are being consulted upon 
at this stage as described in Section 1.2.  Option 1 will include 
implementing improvements to the local road network and the widening 
of the existing track within the Project Site.  Option 2 will include the 
 
 
Abergelli Power Project Preliminary 
Environmental Information Report Non-
Technical Summary 
 
PEIR NTS fv2 
Prepared by Parsons Brinckerhoff 
August 2014 
for Abergelli Power Ltd  
 
- 11 - 
construction of a new road across the fields between the Swansea 
North electrical substation and the Generating Equipment site. 
 
 
Abergelli Power Project Preliminary Environmental Information Report Non-
Technical Summary 
 
PEIR NTS fv2 
Prepared by Parsons Brinckerhoff 
August 2014 
for Abergelli Power Ltd  
 
- 12 - 
 
Figure 5.1: Access Road Options 
 
 
Abergelli Power Project Preliminary 
Environmental Information Report Non-
Technical Summary 
 
PEIR NTS fv2 
Prepared by Parsons Brinckerhoff 
August 2014 
for Abergelli Power Ltd  
 
- 13 - 
5.5 
Electrical Connection  
5.5.1 
Both underground cables and overhead lines were considered.  
Underground cables were identified as the preferred option due to the 
limited visual impact.   
5.5.2 
The area to the south west of the Generating Equipment Site is the 
area within which the route for the Electrical Connection has been 
identified.  In July 2014, the chosen route was identified during a site 
walkover of the Electrical Connection Opportunity Area. A limited 
number of route corridor options for the Electrical Connection were 
considered, as the most appropriate option i.e. the shortest, most direct 
route from the Generating Equipment Site to the substation, requiring 
the least amount of land take and avoiding any statutory designated 
sites or valued habitats, was available. This negated the need to 
assess any less favourable options. 
 
 
Abergelli Power Project Preliminary Environmental Information Report Non-
Technical Summary 
 
PEIR NTS fv2 
Prepared by Parsons Brinckerhoff 
August 2014 
for Abergelli Power Ltd  
 
- 14 - 
 
Figure 5.2: Electrical Connection and Typical Section 
 
 
Abergelli Power Project Preliminary 
Environmental Information Report Non-
Technical Summary 
 
PEIR NTS fv2 
Prepared by Parsons Brinckerhoff 
August 2014 
for Abergelli Power Ltd  
 
- 15 - 
5.6 
Gas Connection 
5.6.1 
Four connection options have been explored and further refined to a 
single Gas Connection Route.  Cost, length and complexity as well as 
the potential presence of protected species were the main factors 
considered in choosing the preferred route (see Figure 2.1).  
6 
AIR QUALITY 
6.1.1 
The construction, operation and decommissioning of the proposed 
Project has the potential to impact upon air quality. To date, a desk-
based assessment, including a stack height sensitivity test, and site 
walkover has been undertaken to assess any potential impacts upon air 
quality from the proposed Project. A summary of the results from this 
preliminary assessment is provided below. 
6.2 
Assessment Methodology 
6.2.1 
The assessment of construction dust impacts on humans is considered 
within 350 metres of potential dust sources and ecological receptors 
were considered within 100 metres. In relation to operational impacts, 
the study area extends 10 km in all directions from the Generating 
Equipment Site. There are no operational impacts on local air quality 
anticipated from the Gas and Electrical Connections.  
6.3 
Baseline Conditions and Receptors 
6.3.1 
There is an Air Quality Management Area located 4.5 km south of the 
Project Site. Air pollutants and particulate matter at the Project Site are 
expected to be well within the relevant air quality objectives. In 
summary, NO2 and particulate matter concentrations across the study 
area are generally very low, both in rural and suburban areas.  At the 
roadside, outside of urban areas, concentrations are higher but likely to 
be well within the air quality objectives. 
6.3.2 
The area is largely rural in character although it is located on the urban 
fringe, interspersed with small residential settlements. Residential 
properties along B4489, Pant Lasau Road, Rhyd-Y-Pandy Road have 
also been considered. The study area also includes a number of nature 
conservation sites. 
6.4 
Preliminary Assessment 
6.4.1 
It is considered unlikely that there will be permanent residual adverse 
effects associated with the construction of the Project. The effects 
relating to construction activities are all temporary. Effects during 
 
 
Abergelli Power Project Preliminary 
Environmental Information Report Non-
Technical Summary 
 
PEIR NTS fv2 
Prepared by Parsons Brinckerhoff 
August 2014 
for Abergelli Power Ltd  
 
- 16 - 
operation of the Power Generation Plant are not expected to be 
significant. 
7 
NOISE AND VIBRATION  
7.1.1 
The construction, operation and decommissioning of the proposed 
Project has the potential to impact upon noise and vibration. To date, a 
baseline noise survey has been undertaken to assess any potential 
impacts upon noise sensitive receptors, such as residential properties, 
from the proposed Project. A summary of the results from this 
preliminary assessment is provided below. 
7.2 
Assessment Methodology 
7.2.1 
The assessment methodologies used in the PEIR are the same as 
those that will be adopted for the EIA. However, the level of detail 
available at the PEIR stage is only sufficient to form preliminary 
conclusions. 
7.2.2 
Construction and decommissioning noise and vibration assessments of 
the Project has been undertaken following the guidance in the relevant 
British Standards.  An outline construction programme has been 
developed based on knowledge and experience of other similar 
developments. Additionally, the typical make up of construction 
equipment at each stage of the Project programme has been 
ascertained in the same way. The desk study has outlined suitable 
measures for the mitigation of construction and decommissioning 
impacts, and an assessment of residual effects.   
7.2.3 
Vibration from construction activities may impact on adjacent buildings.  
The criteria used in this assessment relates to the potential for 
cosmetic damage, not structural damage.  The principal concern is 
generally vibration due to impact piling. Due to the minimum distance of 
a 230 m to the closest neighbouring structure (NG Compressor 
Station), a detailed construction vibration assessment has not been 
included in the PEIR. 
7.2.4 
A baseline noise survey has been undertaken in the vicinity of the 
Project Site to establish the current baseline noise levels. The 
monitoring locations for the baseline survey included a selection of the 
nearest noise sensitive receptors. These locations were agreed in 
advance with Swansea Council.
 
 
Abergelli Power Project Preliminary Environmental Information Report Non-
Technical Summary 
 
PEIR NTS fv2 
Prepared by Parsons Brinckerhoff 
August 2014 
for Abergelli Power Ltd  
 
- 17 - 
 
 
 
Figure 7.1: Noise Sensitive Receptor Locations 
 
 
Abergelli Power Project Preliminary 
Environmental Information Report Non-
Technical Summary 
 
PEIR NTS fv2 
Prepared by Parsons Brinckerhoff 
August 2014 
for Abergelli Power Ltd  
 
- 18 - 
7.2.5 
The operation of the Gas and Electrical Connections is not anticipated 
to cause any significant increase in background noise or vibration and 
is therefore scoped out of the assessment. 
7.3 
Baseline Conditions and Receptors 
7.3.1 
The closest Noise Sensitive Receptors within 1 km of the Project Site 
include those within the nearby settlements of Morriston, Pant-lasau, 
Llwyncelyn and Felindre. In addition there are also isolated dwellings 
and farmsteads throughout the study area. 
7.3.2 
A noise survey was undertaken to determine the spread of noise in the 
area. A number of attended short term sampling measurements were 
taken over a period of 24hrs.  In addition, two unattended long term 
noise monitors were used. These measured noise levels continuously 
at two locations for 7 days.  Noise levels were measured at between 24 
and 34 decibels. 
7.4 
Preliminary Assessment 
7.4.1 
Predicted effects will range between Slight and Moderate adverse and 
therefore may or may not be significant at the construction and 
decommissioning stages of the Power Generation Plan. During 
operation, the effects are predicted to be slight adverse and therefore 
not significant. 
7.4.2 
The operation of neither the Gas Connection nor the underground 
Electrical Connection would give rise to any noticeable noise during 
operation.  Any increases in noise levels will represent a temporary 
increase which will be restricted to the duration of the construction 
activities.  The effects are predicted to be Slight adverse and therefore 
not significant. 
7.4.3 
During construction of the Power Generation Plant, Access Option 1 
will have a Moderate adverse effect for Felin Wen Farm, but for Option 
2 it will only be a Slight effect.  There is no discernable difference 
between Option 1 and 2 during operation, or for the construction and 
decommissioning of the Gas Connection or Electrical Connection. 
8 
ECOLOGY 
8.1.1 
The construction, operation and decommissioning of the proposed 
Project has the potential to impact upon ecology. To date, a desk 
based study and a range of protected species surveys has been 
undertaken (some are on-going) to assess any potential impacts upon 
ecology from the proposed Project. A summary of the results from this 
preliminary assessment is provided below. 
 
 
Abergelli Power Project Preliminary 
Environmental Information Report Non-
Technical Summary 
 
PEIR NTS fv2 
Prepared by Parsons Brinckerhoff 
August 2014 
for Abergelli Power Ltd  
 
- 19 - 
8.2 
Assessment Methodology 
8.2.1 
A desk study was carried out within a study area of 10 km to identify 
statutory designated sites and bat records, and 2 km for non-statutory 
designated sites and protected/notable species. An Extended Phase 1 
Habitat Survey was undertaken in February and July 2014. Surveys 
were also carried out for badgers, dormouse, otter, water vole, bats, 
breeding birds, Great Crested Newts, reptiles, terrestrial and aquatic 
invertebrates, flora and invasive species such as Japanese knotweed.  
Some of these surveys are still to be completed. 
8.3 
Baseline Conditions and Receptors 
8.3.1 
There are a total of 35 statutory designated sites within a 10 km radius 
of the Project Site and 23 non-statutory designated sites within 2 km of 
the Project Site, as well as 101 areas of Ancient Woodland. The Project 
Site is located predominantly on pastoral farmland, mostly agriculturally 
improved but with large areas of marshy grassland and interspersed by 
woodland and scrub. There are numerous watercourses on site, mostly 
in the form of ditches or streams along field boundaries.
 
 
Abergelli Power Project Preliminary Environmental Information Report Non-
Technical Summary 
 
PEIR NTS fv2 
Prepared by Parsons Brinckerhoff 
August 2014 
for Abergelli Power Ltd  
 
- 20 - 
 
Figure 8.1: Non-Statutory Designated Sites 
 
 
Abergelli Power Project Preliminary 
Environmental Information Report Non-
Technical Summary 
 
PEIR NTS fv2 
Prepared by Parsons Brinckerhoff 
August 2014 
for Abergelli Power Ltd  
 
- 21 - 
8.3.2 
Signs of badgers were recorded during other surveys so they are 
known to be present in the wider area.  
8.3.3 
No dormice have been found to date, however further checks are yet to 
be undertaken.  
8.3.4 
The desk study provided 32 records of otter within the 2 km search 
radius, with the closest record 0.5 km to the south west of the River 
Llan. During the 2014 surveys a single fresh otter spraint was found in 
the stream that runs along the eastern boundary of the Survey Site. No 
other signs were observed that confirm otter presence within the 
Survey Site.  
8.3.5 
No records or fields signs provided evidence that water voles existing in 
close proximity to the Project Site, although historic records (from 1996) 
were provided from the River Llan, 1.9 km from the Project Site.  
8.3.6 
Surveys of buildings within the Survey Site confirmed at least four 
buildings are used as bat roosts. None of buildings will be directly 
affected by the Project. 35 trees were located within the Survey Site 
that were considered to present potential to support roosting bats.  
Surveys were carried out on eight of these trees and no bats were 
recorded.  Preliminary activity survey findings recorded at least eight 
species of bats using the Survey Site.  The highest numbers of passes 
were recorded along linear features such as hedges or streams. 
8.3.7 
Seven bird ‘species of principal importance for nature conservation’ 
were recorded on site, as well as other species of conservation concern 
in Wales. 
8.3.8 
Great Crested Newt presence/absence surveys have been undertaken 
and likely absence of species was recorded in all accessible 
waterbodies subject to survey.  Therefore, for the purposes of this 
assessment, the absence of Great Crested Nets is assumed in all 
waterbodies within 250 m of the Project Site boundary. 
8.3.9 
Reptile presence/absence surveys across the Project Site are currently 
on-going, however to date common lizard and grass snakes were found 
present. 
8.3.10 
A total of 217 invertebrate species were recorded from the Survey Site. 
8.3.11 
National Vegetation Classification survey results are yet to be 
analysed. 
8.3.12 
Invasive species surveys across the Project Site were completed and 
five species of plant were recorded during the survey.  The final design 
 
 
Abergelli Power Project Preliminary 
Environmental Information Report Non-
Technical Summary 
 
PEIR NTS fv2 
Prepared by Parsons Brinckerhoff 
August 2014 
for Abergelli Power Ltd  
 
- 22 - 
will seek to avoid the locations where these species were recorded 
where possible. 
8.4 
Preliminary Assessment 
8.4.1 
Potential effects during the construction and decommissioning phases 
of the Power Generation Plant, Gas Connection and Electrical 
Connection are envisaged to be mainly temporary. Effects are 
predicted to range between Slight and Moderate and therefore may or 
may not be significant.  However, there is potential for loss of Ancient 
Woodland and non-statutory designated sites, which cannot be 
mitigated against or replaced and this will result in a major effect, and 
therefore significant, if Access Option 2 is implemented.  
8.4.2 
Effects during operation, such as disturbance of protected species, are 
likely to be between Slight and Moderate.  Given that the Gas and 
Electrical Connections will be buried underground, with very small 
areas situated above ground, the residual effects are predicted to range 
between Slight and Moderate, depending on the level of disturbance 
and therefore may or may not be significant.  
8.4.3 
A Habitat Regulations Assessment Screening will be conducted to 
identify any potential impacts on internationally designated sites. 
9 
WATER QUALITY AND RESOURCES  
9.1.1 
The construction, operation and decommissioning of the proposed 
Project has the potential to impact upon water quality and resources. 
To date, a site walkover and desk-based assessment of risks has been 
undertaken to assess any potential impacts upon water quality and 
resources from the proposed Project. A summary of the results from 
this preliminary assessment is provided below. 
9.2 
Assessment Methodology 
9.2.1 
The study area generally includes features within 1 km of the Project 
Site boundary. However, more distant features that may be 
hydraulically connected to the Project Site have also been considered. 
9.2.2 
Hydrological features have been identified from OS mapping with 
information on geology, water quality and flood risk obtained from the 
Environment Agency website. All aspects of supply, demand and 
disposal of water and process effluents have been assessed for the 
construction, operational and decommissioning phases. 
 
 
Abergelli Power Project Preliminary 
Environmental Information Report Non-
Technical Summary 
 
PEIR NTS fv2 
Prepared by Parsons Brinckerhoff 
August 2014 
for Abergelli Power Ltd  
 
- 23 - 
9.3 
Baseline Conditions and Receptors 
9.3.1 
The main watercourse that traverses the area is Afon Llan which flows 
in a south-westerly direction to the west and south of the Project Site, 
eventually discharging to the Loughor Estuary. There are a number of 
smaller watercourses within the vicinity of the Project Site that drain to 
the Afon Llan, along with a number of springs and small ponds. The 
Felindre Water Treatment Works with covered reservoir is situated 
immediately north of the Project Site.  
9.3.2 
The Afon Lliw, which also discharges into the Loughor Estuary, is 
located approximately 1.3 km north of the Project Site. With the 
possible exception of the northern boundary, the Project Site is outside 
of the Afon Lliw topographic catchment and therefore it is expected that 
any direct connectivity will be limited. 
9.3.3 
No surface water abstraction points have been identified within the 
Project Site boundary. 
9.3.4 
A small area of the Project Site towards the Afon Llan lies in area 
known to have flooded in the past. Lower lying parts of the Project Site 
may be susceptible to groundwater flooding.  A burst of the watermain 
flowing through the Project Site is a potential source of flooding.
 
 
Abergelli Power Project Preliminary Environmental Information Report Non-
Technical Summary 
 
PEIR NTS fv2 
Prepared by Parsons Brinckerhoff 
August 2014 
for Abergelli Power Ltd  
 
- 24 - 
 
Figure 9.1: Areas at Risk from Flooding 
 
 
Abergelli Power Project Preliminary 
Environmental Information Report Non-
Technical Summary 
 
PEIR NTS fv2 
Prepared by Parsons Brinckerhoff 
August 2014 
for Abergelli Power Ltd  
 
- 25 - 
9.4 
Preliminary Assessment 
9.4.1 
There are not anticipated to be any significant residual effects on the 
main water bodies resulting from the construction, operation or 
decommissioning of the Power Generation Plant, Gas Connection and 
Electrical Connection. Most effects predicted to be neutral or Slight 
adverse and therefore not significant. 
9.4.2 
Although the Project Site is at low risk from flooding, an event such as 
a burst watermain may cause damage to the Power Generation Plant.  
This may therefore result in a major adverse effect due to the sensitivity 
of the receptor, which would therefore be significant. 
9.4.3 
Mitigation measures to reduce the effects on groundwater and surface 
water features, such as the Afon Llan and its tributaries, will include 
settlement ponds, directional drilling techniques, careful siting of 
stockpiles and implementation of Sustainable Drainage Systems. 
9.4.4 
There is no discernable difference between Access Option 1 and 2 at 
this stage in terms of impacts on water quality and resources.  
10 
GEOLOGY, GROUND CONDITION AND HYDROGEOLOGY 
10.1.1 
The construction, operation and decommissioning of the proposed 
Project has the potential to impact upon geology, ground conditions 
and hydrogeology. To date, a desk-based assessment and site 
walkover has been undertaken to assess any potential impacts upon 
geology, ground conditions and hydrogeology from the proposed 
Project. A summary of the results from this preliminary assessment is 
provided below. 
10.2 
Assessment Methodology 
10.2.1 
The study area for this topic is an area up to 1 km from the Project Site 
boundary.  A site walkover was undertaken in July 2014 in order to 
identify potential sources of contamination, and potential receptors 
which may be adversely affected by the presence of contamination. 
10.2.2 
The baseline conditions, including the identification of previous land 
uses, were determined with reference to a variety of sources, include 
consultation with the Coal Authority. 
10.2.3 
The assessment of risk is a three stage process commencing with a 
Preliminary 
Risk 
Assessment 
which 
comprises 
a 
qualitative 
assessment. 
 
 
Abergelli Power Project Preliminary 
Environmental Information Report Non-
Technical Summary 
 
PEIR NTS fv2 
Prepared by Parsons Brinckerhoff 
August 2014 
for Abergelli Power Ltd  
 
- 26 - 
10.3 
Baseline Conditions and Receptors   
10.3.1 
Historical uses of the Project Site include agriculture, a gravel pit, a 
colliery and an inert landfill.  A Coal Authority Mining Report indicates 
that they have received no indication of the risk of the land being 
affected by subsidence. 
10.3.2 
The permeability of the bedrock geology ranges from low to high, 
depending on the degree of fracturing.  The superficial deposits located 
across the Project Site comprise predominantly glacial till.  There are 
also pockets of alluvium and peat present within the Project Site 
boundary. 
10.3.3 
The agricultural land classification for the land within and surrounding 
the Project Site is poor quality agricultural land (Grade 4). 
10.4 
Preliminary Assessment 
10.4.1 
The construction and decommissioning works associated with the 
Power Generation Plant, such as ground disturbance and potential 
pollution incidents, will not result in significant effects.  Effects will range 
between Neutral and Slight adverse.   
10.4.2 
The construction of both the Gas Connection and Electrical Connection 
will result in the temporary sterilisation of agricultural land, and other 
potential mineral resources.  These effects will be neutral and therefore 
not significant. 
10.4.3 
There is the potential for a Moderate adverse, and therefore significant, 
effect resulting from ground instability on the Power Generation Plant, 
Gas Connection and Electrical Connection.  This may affect any built 
structures during construction and operation. 
10.4.4 
Comprehensive Ground Investigation work will be carried out prior to 
construction of the Project to mitigate the potential effects described 
above. 
10.4.5 
There is potential for a Slight adverse, and therefore not significant, 
effect resulting from disturbance and remobilisation of existing 
contamination pathways to receptors through earthworks with Option 1.  
The effect of Option 2 is likely to be Neutral.  
11 
LANDSCAPE AND VISUAL IMPACTS 
11.1.1 
The construction, operation and decommissioning of the proposed 
Project has the potential to impact upon landscape character and 
resources, designated landscapes, registered parks and gardens, 
recreational interests, and visual amenity. To date, a Zone of 
 
 
Abergelli Power Project Preliminary 
Environmental Information Report Non-
Technical Summary 
 
PEIR NTS fv2 
Prepared by Parsons Brinckerhoff 
August 2014 
for Abergelli Power Ltd  
 
- 27 - 
Theoretical Visibility has been prepared to identify where the Project 
will be visible from and a site visit has been undertaken to assess any 
potential impacts upon landscape from the proposed Project. A 
summary of the results from this preliminary assessment is provided 
below. 
11.2 
Assessment Methodology 
11.2.1 
A mixture of desk study and field work has been undertaken to identify 
and record the character of the landscape and the elements, features 
and aesthetic and perceptual factors. The Study Area for visual effects 
is set at 15 km.
 
 
Abergelli Power Project Preliminary 
Environmental Information Report Non-
Technical Summary 
 
PEIR NTS fv2 
Prepared by Parsons Brinckerhoff 
August 2014 
for Abergelli Power Ltd  
 
- 28 - 
 
Figure 11.1: Zone of Theoretical Visibility 
 
 
Abergelli Power Project Preliminary 
Environmental Information Report Non-
Technical Summary 
 
PEIR NTS fv2 
Prepared by Parsons Brinckerhoff 
August 2014 
for Abergelli Power Ltd  
 
- 29 - 
11.2.2 
The computer-generated Zone of Theoretical Visibility indicates areas 
from which it might be possible to see part or parts of the Project. It has 
been compiled using topographical data and a model of the Project, 
assuming the highest point of the Generating Equipment will be the 
stack (between 35 and 40 m high). 
11.2.3 
Viewpoints have also been agreed with Swansea Council to represent 
the most visually sensitive locations.  Photomontages will be prepared 
for some of the locations to illustrate the effects of the Project. 
11.2.4 
The use of Landscape Character Assessments is also an important 
element of establishing the current baseline and potential forces for 
change.  LANDMAP has been used for this assessment, which is the 
national information system for Wales. 
11.3 
Baseline Conditions and Receptors 
11.3.1 
The nearest Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty (AONB) is the Gower 
AONB which is physically remote from the Project Site and visually 
separated from the Project Site by intervening topography. The Project 
will also not be visible from the Brecon Beacons National Park. 
11.3.2 
Fields within and around the Project Site are medium to small and 
irregularly shaped, divided by combinations of hedge banks, low walls, 
and ditches. The Project Site is situated in the low lying parts of the 
Afon Llan Valley and consists of very gently sloping land. The Project 
Site is contained from the north, east and west by local topography and 
vegetation. Local roads are visually contained by high hedge banks. 
The M4 corridor and the northern suburbs of Swansea dominate the 
southern area, with more remote hill landscape to the north and east. 
11.3.3 
The Project Site and surroundings include a number of overhead lines 
as shown in Figure 11.1. 
 
 
Abergelli Power Project Preliminary 
Environmental Information Report Non-
Technical Summary 
 
PEIR NTS fv2 
Prepared by Parsons Brinckerhoff 
August 2014 
for Abergelli Power Ltd  
 
- 30 - 
 
Figure 11.1: Existing network of electricity pylons southwest of 
Abergelli Farm 
11.3.4 
Receptors include nearby residential properties and Public Rights of 
Way.   
11.4 
Preliminary Assessment 
11.4.1 
The expectation is that the main visually prominent element of the 
Power Generation Plant will be the 40m high stacks, which represents 
a maximum height and therefore the worst-case scenario. These 
vertical elements are expected to have significant adverse effects on 
some viewpoints during construction and operation, as well as the 
landscape character of the Project Site.  However, much of the Project 
Site itself will be screened by existing vegetation and local topography 
and this will reduce the visual effects of the main generators. 
11.4.2 
The Gas Connection and Electrical Connection are predominantly 
underground and are not expected to have significant effects during 
construction and operation other than where there is above ground 
infrastructure. 
11.4.3 
There is no discernable difference between Access Option 1 and 2 at 
this stage in terms of impacts on landscape character and visual 
amenity. 
 
 
Abergelli Power Project Preliminary 
Environmental Information Report Non-
Technical Summary 
 
PEIR NTS fv2 
Prepared by Parsons Brinckerhoff 
August 2014 
for Abergelli Power Ltd  
 
- 31 - 
12 
TRAFFIC, TRANSPORT AND ACCESS 
12.1.1 
The construction, operation and decommissioning of the proposed 
Project has the potential to impact upon the local transport network. To 
date, a preliminary assessment has assessed the local road network to 
identify any potential impacts upon the road network from the proposed 
Project. A summary of the results from this preliminary assessment is 
provided below. 
12.2 
Assessment Methodology 
12.2.1 
The assessment has established the existing capacity conditions 
around the Project Site and assessed network and corridor 
performance in relation to a number of receptors.  This is based on 
data collected on site and existing data. 
12.2.2 
The ES will present the findings of trip estimates from the Project, the 
mode split of all trips, and the likely distribution across the transport 
network. Forecasting of baseline traffic data will be carried out to 
establish a realistic worst case scenario for a future year. 
12.2.3 
An assessment of pedestrians, cyclists and other non-motorised users 
of the transport network will also be undertaken. 
12.3 
Baseline Conditions and Receptors 
12.3.1 
The B4489 lies west of the Project Site and runs north-south linking 
Felindre to Llangyfelach and is marked with a 40 mph speed limit. 
North of the access to the National Grid’s Swansea North electrical 
substation and Felindre Gas Compressor Station, the B4489 is a 
narrow rural road. It then widens to a single carriageway road for the 
rest of its length, with the stretch leading to the junction with the A48 
having two lanes south-bound. 
12.3.2 
The Rhyd-Y-Pandy Road is an unclassified road which runs east and 
north of the Project Site, from Pant-lasau to Rhyd-Y-Pandy in an almost 
directly north-south direction. There are several other private roads in 
proximity to the Project Site, all of which are rural in nature. 
12.3.3 
Access Road Option 1 would use the Rhyd-y-pandy Road to access 
the site and Option 2 would use the B4489 to access the site. 
12.3.4 
An initial review of accident data shows that between 2009 and 2012, 
there was one accident on the Rhyd-Y-Pandy Road. This was a slight 
accident involving two vehicles and with one casualty. There were also 
several accidents along the B4489 within this time period, however, 
 
 
Abergelli Power Project Preliminary 
Environmental Information Report Non-
Technical Summary 
 
PEIR NTS fv2 
Prepared by Parsons Brinckerhoff 
August 2014 
for Abergelli Power Ltd  
 
- 32 - 
none within close proximity to the Project Site or potential access 
routes.  
12.3.5 
There is no pedestrian footway or cycling infrastructure provision along 
the Access Road route options. There is one bus route in the vicinity of 
the Project Site, although there are several other bus routes that pass 
through nearby villages. There are no train stations or railway 
infrastructure in close proximity to the Project Site. 
12.4 
Preliminary Assessment 
12.4.1 
It is estimated that construction and decommissioning will result in 
approximately 200 car or van trips per day and around 150 HGV 
deliveries per day during the peak construction/decommissioning 
period. This assumes a 22 month construction period with the peak of 
HGV deliveries occurring during the first quarter of construction and the 
peak of car and van trips occurring during the fifth quarter of 
construction. The car or van trips would be limited to the start and end 
of the working day whilst HGV trips would be spread across the day.  
12.4.2 
During construction of the Power Generation Plant, Gas Connection 
and Electrical Connection, there are anticipated to be Slight to 
Moderate effects resulting from traffic increases, which therefore may 
or may not be significant.  There will be Slight effects resulting from 
obstruction by abnormal loads which will therefore not be significant.  
These effects are likely to be similar for either access option. 
12.4.3 
Decommissioning is likely to cause the same effects as that of 
construction, but goods are taken away from site rather than to site. 
The decommissioning stage will generate fewer vehicle movements, as 
it is likely that the Gas Connection will be left in situ.  
12.4.4 
During operation, it is anticipated that approximately three people 
would be present on site during each shift. With three shifts per day, 
this would equate to 18 two-way car trips. 
12.4.5 
There are likely to be neutral effects during the operation of the Project 
as operational staff numbers will be low (approximately nine full time 
employees) and the delivery and removal of goods to the Project Site 
are also expected to be very low. Maintenance vehicles are expected to 
be very infrequent and are not anticipated to cause any detriment to the 
local transport network. 
13 
ARCHAEOLOGY AND CULTURAL HERITAGE 
13.1.1 
The construction, operation and decommissioning of the proposed 
Project has the potential to impact upon heritage assets. To date, a 
 
 
Abergelli Power Project Preliminary 
Environmental Information Report Non-
Technical Summary 
 
PEIR NTS fv2 
Prepared by Parsons Brinckerhoff 
August 2014 
for Abergelli Power Ltd  
 
- 33 - 
desk-based assessment and site walkover has been undertaken to 
assess any potential impacts upon heritage assets from the proposed 
Project. A summary of the results from this preliminary assessment is 
provided below. 
13.2 
Assessment Methodology 
13.2.1 
A Desk Based Assessment (DBA) has been undertaken in consultation 
with Cadw.  It included searches of records held by the Royal 
Commission on Ancient and Historical Monuments, Swansea Historic 
Environment 
Record, 
aerial 
photographs, 
historic 
mapping, 
Conservation Areas and Historic Landscape Characterisation. 
13.2.2 
Searches have been limited to 1 km from the Project Site for 
archaeology as the Project has the potential to impact on 
archaeological remains within the Project Site and the immediate 
surroundings only. 
13.2.3 
The Setting Assessment considers those designated Heritage Assets 
within a 5 km from the Project Site.  This assessment considers effects 
on the setting of Scheduled Monuments, Listed Buildings, Registered 
Parks and Gardens, World Heritage Sites and non-designated but 
important buildings. 
13.3 
Baseline Conditions and Receptors 
13.3.1 
No designated Heritage Assets have been identified within the Project 
Site. 30 designated Heritage Assets and 47 Grade II Listed Buildings 
have been identified within 5 km of the Project Site. Five non-
designated Heritage Assets have been identified within the Project Site.
 
 
Abergelli Power Project Preliminary Environmental Information Report Non-
Technical Summary 
 
PEIR NTS fv2 
Prepared by Parsons Brinckerhoff 
August 2014 
for Abergelli Power Ltd  
 
- 34 - 
 
Figure 13.1: Heritage Assets 
 
 
Abergelli Power Project Preliminary 
Environmental Information Report Non-
Technical Summary 
 
PEIR NTS fv2 
Prepared by Parsons Brinckerhoff 
August 2014 
for Abergelli Power Ltd  
 
- 35 - 
13.4 
Preliminary Assessment 
13.4.1 
At this preliminary stage of the assessment, it has been determined 
that there will be a neutral effect upon the setting of Heritage Assets 
within 5 km of the Project Site resulting from the construction, operation 
and decommissioning of the Power Generation Plant. The effects will 
therefore be not significant. 
13.4.2 
There is the potential for adverse effects upon the standing remains of 
Abergelli Colliery resulting from damage to the asset by construction 
traffic using Access Road Option 1.  These effects are likely to be 
neutral, and therefore not significant, if the building is protected.  
13.4.3 
There is also potential for adverse effects upon a possible ancient field 
boundary if the Gas Connection is routed through the asset, although 
these effects will not be significant. However, these effects will be 
limited by implementation of appropriate mitigation measures, such as 
a programme of recording, which will be devised in consultation with 
the Planning Archaeologist. 
13.4.4 
There will neutral effects resulting from the operation of the Gas 
Connection and Electrical Connection which will therefore be not 
significant. 
14 
SOCIO-ECONOMICS 
14.1.1 
The construction, operation and decommissioning of the proposed 
Project has the potential to impact upon the labour market and tourism. 
To date, a desk based assessment has been undertaken to assess any 
potential socio-economic impacts from the proposed Project. A 
summary of the results from this preliminary assessment is provided 
below. 
14.2 
Assessment Methodology 
14.2.1 
The socio-economic assessment is based on drive time catchment 
areas from the Project.  The ‘local area’ is defined within a 30-minute 
drive time, ‘wider area’ within a 45-minute drive time, and ‘wider region’ 
within a 60-minute drive time.    
14.2.2 
The tourism assessment is focussed on the area defined by a 15 km 
radius from the Project.  Facilities or notable points of focus of visitor 
attraction within this area have been reviewed.  Any significant tourism 
facilities located just outside the boundary have also been included. 
 
 
Abergelli Power Project Preliminary 
Environmental Information Report Non-
Technical Summary 
 
PEIR NTS fv2 
Prepared by Parsons Brinckerhoff 
August 2014 
for Abergelli Power Ltd  
 
- 36 - 
14.2.3 
As proximity is likely to be the main determinant of impacts and their 
scale, the status (or catchment) of community facility receptors in an 
area determines the scale and significance of any effects. 
14.2.4 
The study area’s socio-economic position has been described using 
standard indicators relating to the economic/labour market, tourism, 
social and policy context.  The assessment has considered impacts on 
jobs and Gross Value Added. 
14.2.5 
A business survey has been carried out to gain a more detailed 
understanding of the local tourism economy and its current 
performance.  Businesses contacted include key visitor accommodation 
providers, leisure activity providers and other relevant tourism 
businesses. 
14.3 
Baseline Conditions and Receptors 
14.3.1 
The 
socio-economic 
study 
area 
surrounding 
the 
Project 
is 
characterised by; an increasing population; projected population 
increase of c.6% between 2013 and 2021; a growing retirement age 
population; an economic activity rate higher than the UK average; 
slightly higher levels of unemployment comparable to the UK average; 
a slightly higher proportion of people working in manufacturing; a 
comparable proportion of people working in the construction sector;   a 
higher proportion of people employed in semi-skilled/unskilled jobs and 
lower proportion of people in highly skilled jobs; and a higher proportion 
of people achieving no qualifications and low level qualifications 
compared to the UK average. 
14.3.2 
Domestic visitor tourism spending and bed-nights are at their highest 
level since 2006-08.  Visitor trips, despite falling recently, remain high 
and above average.  Overseas tourism appears to be declining in 
Swansea.  Overseas trips, bed-nights and spending are at their lowest 
level since 2006. 
14.3.3 
Two of the top ten visitor attractions in South West Wales are within the 
tourism study area. 
14.3.4 
An initial audit of community facilities indicates the provision of: 21 
schools within three miles of the Project Site; five GP surgeries; one 
hospital; six pharmacies; and one library. The level of existing 
community infrastructure is considered to be sufficient to accommodate 
additional demand. 
 
 
Abergelli Power Project Preliminary 
Environmental Information Report Non-
Technical Summary 
 
PEIR NTS fv2 
Prepared by Parsons Brinckerhoff 
August 2014 
for Abergelli Power Ltd  
 
- 37 - 
14.4 
Preliminary Assessment 
14.4.1 
No significant labour market, tourism and recreation, and community 
infrastructure adverse effects are anticipated during construction, 
operation and decommissioning of the Project given there is an 
availability of skilled, construction labour with a 60-minute drive time 
and there will be limited increased demand on community 
infrastructure.  
14.4.2 
There is no discernable difference between Access Option 1 and 2 at 
this stage in terms of impacts on the labour market, tourism and 
community infrastructure.   
15 
OTHER EFFECTS CONSIDERED 
15.1.1 
Each topic chapter where effects may result that may affect human 
health i.e. noise, air quality and ground conditions (potential land 
contamination) will consider those potential effects in the ES. 
15.1.2 
Electric and Magnetic Fields have been considered in the preliminary 
assessment, but will not be subject to further assessment since the 
Electrical Connection will be buried underground and therefore adverse 
effects are unlikely to occur. 
16 
CUMULATIVE EFFECTS 
16.1.1 
The findings of the preliminary assessment have concluded that there 
are unlikely to be any adverse cumulative effects in addition to those 
likely to result from the development of the Project when it is 
considered in combination with the following developments.  This will 
be reviewed in more detail in the full EIA as it is an on-going 
assessment. 
 
Planning Application 2013/1221 – Installation of 16 wind 
turbines at Mynydd y Gwair; 
 
Planning Application 2013/0795 – Installation of four 5 kW 
wind turbines at Tyle Coch Mawr;  
 
Planning Application 2013/0135 – Installation of ground 
mounted array of solar panels, at Abergelli Farm.  This 
development will be located east of the Gas Connection; 
 
Planning Application 2013/1639 (Rhyd-y-pandy Solar Park) – 
Construction of 7 MW solar park; 
 
Planning Application 2013/1835 (Felindre Business Park) – 
Construction of park and ride/share car park; and 
 
 
Abergelli Power Project Preliminary 
Environmental Information Report Non-
Technical Summary 
 
PEIR NTS fv2 
Prepared by Parsons Brinckerhoff 
August 2014 
for Abergelli Power Ltd  
 
- 38 - 
 
Planning Application 2014/1022 (Brynwhilach Solar Park) – 
Construction of 12.69MW solar park. 
 
Strategic development proposals at Swansea Vale and 
Felindre Sustainable Urban Village forming part of the 
emerging Swansea LDP Preferred Strategy.  
16.1.2 
The inter-relationship of effects of the Project on receptors identified in 
the PEIR i.e. more than one effect on the same receptor, will be 
considered as part of the full EIA.  
17 
SUMMARY 
17.1.1 
The preliminary assessment as described in the PEIR has identified the 
following potential significant residual effects resulting from the Project: 
 It is considered unlikely that there will be permanent residual 
effects associated with the construction of the Project relating to 
air quality. The effects relating to construction activities are all 
temporary. 
 During construction it is anticipated that there will be some 
increases in traffic and some disruption to the road network 
during off peak times.  These effects will all be temporary as 
there will be limited traffic during operation of the Project. 
 Where views of the stacks are possible these are unlikely to be 
mitigated by planting and adverse effects on visual amenity are 
likely to occur.   
 The risk of flooding is low.  However, should it occur, such as 
from a burst watermain, the effects may be significant due to the 
possible damage to the Project or harm to workers that may 
occur. 
17.1.2 
The adverse effects of the Gas Connection and Electrical Connection 
will be similar to the Power Generation Plant during construction.  
During operation the effects will be limited as both will be underground. 
17.1.3 
The main differences between the two access options is that Option 2 
will result in permanent habitat loss, Option 1 will have a wider impact 
on the road network, as it is longer, and may also impact on a non-
designated heritage asset without mitigation. 
17.1.4 
As the design and EIA are completed, the Applicant will seek to identify 
further mitigation and design measures to seek to reduce the significant 
adverse effects where appropriate.  
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix 4.D: Phase 1 S47 Statutory Consultation: 
Advertising 
4.D I  
List of ‘hard to reach’ groups to whom letter was sent providing 
invitation to statutory exhibitions  
 
List of ‘hard to reach’ groups 
Organisation 
Age Concern Swansea Bay  
Age Cymru 
Bethel Chapel, Llangyfelach 
Bont Elim Community Church 
Brynhyfryd Infant School 
Capel y Nant Methodist Church 
Citizens Advice Bureau Swansea  
Clydach Youth Club 
Cockett Women’s Institute 
Diocese of Menevia, St Benedict 
Diocese of Menevia, The Sacred Heart 
Girlguiding Cymru 
Gorseinon Youth Club 
Llangyfelach Women’s Institute 
Mawr Development Trust 
Montana Park Youth Club 
Newton/Swansea Women’s Institute 
Parish of Clydach, St. Mary’s  
Pontlliw Women’s Institute 
Riverside Christian Fellowship 
Rotary Club of Swansea 
St. Davids Church, Penllergaer,  
St. Telio Church, Morriston 
Stadwen Youth Centre 
Swansea Civic Society 
Swansea Historical Association 
Swansea Mosque 
Tabernacle Chapel 
Afro Caribbean Association 
Organisation 
Age Cymru Swansea Bay 
Association for Industrial Archaeology 
Association of Heads of Outdoor Education Centres 
Barham Centre 
Bays Project 
Baywood Senior Citizens 
Birchgrove Community Association 
Blaenymaes Community Centre 
Bonymaen Community Centre 
Bonymaen Community First Area 
Bonymaen Luncheon Club 
Bonymaen Senior Citizens Group 
British Aggregates Association 
British Horse Society 
British Red Cross South West Wales 
Brynmelyn Community Centre 
Brynmill Community Centre 
Business in the Community 
Business in the Community Wales 
Carbon Trust 
Chwarae Teg  
Civic Voice 
Clase Community Centre 
Clase/Caemawr Community First Area 
Clasemont Residents Association 
Clydach OAP's 
Clydach Women's OAPA 
Clyne Valley Community Project 
Country Land and Business Association 
Cwmfelin Social Club Senior Citizens 
Organisation 
Cwmrhydyceirw Joan Club OAP 
Cycling Touring Club - Swansea 
Cymdeithas yr Iaith 
Danygraig Church Senior Citizens 
Deaf Blind Cymru 
Disability Initiative 
Disability Wales 
Dunvant Male Choir 
Dunvant RFC 
DVLA Swansea 
Dyfatty Community Centre 
Environmental Services Association 
Ethnic Minority Foundation 
Farmers Union of Wales 
Federation of Small Businesses 
Fforestfach Senior Citizens 
Fforestfach Senior Citizens Ladies 
Fields in Trust Cymru 
Filipino Welfare Association 
Friends of Coed Bach 
Friends R Us 
Game and Wildlife Conservation Trust 
Garnswllt OAP 
Gendros Community Centre 
Gendros Good Companions 
Glais OAPA 
Glais Senior Citizens 
Glouster House Residents Association 
Goldern Years Dancing Club for the Elderly 
Gors Community Centre (OAP Organisation) 
Organisation 
Gorseinon and Loughor Townswomens' Guild 
Gorseinon Chamber of Trade 
Gorseinon Development Trust 
Gorseinon Gateway Monday Club 
Gorseinon Institute 
gowerton allotmants 
Gowerton Senior Citizens 
Grenfell Park, St. Thomas and Port Tennant Partnership 
Groundwork Cymru 
Hafod Community Centre 
Heol Gerrig Senior Citizens Association 
Hindu Council UK 
Indian Association 
Info-Nation 
Inland Waterways Association 
Land Access and Recreation Association 
Llangyfelach OAPA 
Llansamlet Community Centre 
Llansamlet No 1 OAPA 
Llansamlet No 2 OAPA 
LLwynceithin Residents Social Club 
Loughor Old Age 
Manselton & Cwmbwrla Friday Club 
Manselton & Cwmbwrla over 50s Wednesday Club 
Manselton Community Centre 
Mawr Walking Club 
Mayhill Community Centre 
Mayhill Day Centre Senior Citizens Luncheon Club 
Mencap 
Merched y Wawr 
Organisation 
Minority Ethnic Women's Network Swansea 
Montana Park Community Centre 
Montana Park Community Centre OAPA 
Morriston Community Centre 
Morriston Community First Area 
Morriston Community Hub 
Morriston Memorial Hall 
Morriston OAPA (Ladies) 
Morriston Senior Citizens Club 
Mount Pleasant Resident's Association 
Mount Pleasant Senior Citizens 
Mountbatten Senior Citizens (Wed) 
Muslim Council of Wales 
National Farmers Union for Wales 
National Old Age Pensioners Association of Wales 
National Trust Wales 
New Gors Avenue Community Centre 
North Penlan Community Centre 
One Voice Wales 
Open Spaces Society 
Orchard Court Residents Association 
Over 50s Club 
Over 50s Friendship Club Friends are Us 
Pakistan Welfare Association 
Parc Llewellyn Community Centre 
Parc Llewellyn OAP 
Penlan Community Centre 
Penlan Community First Area 
Penlan Ladies Wednesday Club 
Penrhiw Community Club 
Organisation 
Pentrechwyth Senior Association 
Plasmarl Community Centre 
Play Right Play Association 
Pontarddulais Age Concern 
Pontarddulais Agricultural Showground  
Pontarddulais OAPA 
Pontarddulais Partnership 
Pontarddulais Walking Club 
Pontlliw OAPA 
Port Tennant Community Centre 
Port Tennant Community First Area 
Port Tennant OAPA 
Portmead OAP Friday Club 
Presbyterian Church of Wales 
Princess Royal Trust for Carers 
Race Equality First 
Ramblers Association Wales 
Rechabite Hall 
Remploy (Interwork) 
Royal National Institute for the Blind 
Royal National Institute for the Deaf and Hard of Hearing People 
Safer Swansea Partnership 
Save Clyne Valley 
Shaw Trust Cymru 
Sikh Society 
Sketty Communities First Area 
Sketty Park Community Centre 
Sketty Residents' Association 
Sketty Senior Citizens Mens OAPA 
SNAP Cymru  
Organisation 
South Wales Chamber of Commerce 
South West Wales Tourism Partnership 
St Phillips Community Centre 
St. Hilary's Ladies Guild 
Sustainable Wales 
Sustrans Cymru 
Swansea Airport 
Swansea Bay Racial Equality Council 
Swansea BID 
Swansea Business Club 
Swansea Canal Society 
Swansea Children and Young People Partnership 
Swansea City Centre Partnership 
Swansea Community Boat Trust 
Swansea Council for Voluntary Service 
Swansea Environmental Education Forum 
Swansea Environmental Forum 
Swansea Hebrew Congregation 
Swansea Islamic Community Centre 
Swansea Jewish Community 
Swansea Metropolitan Students Union 
Swansea Metropolitan University 
Swansea Mind 
Swansea Muslim Youth League 
Swansea Participation Service 
Swansea Poverty Action Network 
Swansea Quakers 
Swansea Sustainable Community Initiative 
Swansea Thai Association 
Swansea University (Deputy Director Estates Services) 
Organisation 
Swansea University Students Union 
Swansea YMCA 
The African Friendship Association 
The Associating Evangelical Churches of Wales 
The Baptist Union of Wales 
The Church of Wales 
The Civic Trust for Wales 
The Elim Pentecostal Church 
The Evangelical Movement of Wales 
The Federation of Sport and Play Associations 
The Friendship Club of Newton 
The Gypsy Council Romani Kris 
The Indian Society of South West Wales 
The Methodist Church in Wales 
The National Trust 
The Re-Cycled Teenagers Over 55 Club 
The Religious Society of Friends 
The Roman Catholic Diocese of Menevia 
The Salvation Army 
The Spiritual Assembly of the Bahai's 
The Wales Orthodox Mission 
The Welsh Association of Youth Clubs 
Topic House 
Tourism Swansea Bay Ltd 
Tourism Swansea Bay Trade Association 
Tourism Swansea Trade Association 
Townhill Communities First Area 
Townhill Community Centre 
Trallwn Community Centre 
Treboeth Community Centre 
Organisation 
Treboeth Community Centre OAP 
Ty Dewi Sant Social Club 
Union of Welsh Independents 
Victoria & St Helens Senior Citizens Club 
Wales Air Quality Forum - Swansea 
Wales Cooperative Center 
Wales Council for Deaf People 
Wales Council for Voluntary Action 
Wales Environment Link 
Waun Wen Over 50's Group 
Waunarlwydd Community Centre 
Waunarlwydd Luncheon Club 
Waunarlwydd OAPA 
Welsh Refugee Council 
Welsh Tourism Alliance 
West Glamorgan Humanist Group 
Westport Avenue and Brynau Drive Residents Group 
Wheelrights 
Wildlife Trust for South and West Wales 
Wildlife Trust of South & West Wales 
WRVS Joan Club 
Young Bangladeshi Association 
 
 
 
 
  
Appendix 4.D: Phase 1 S47 Statutory Consultation: 
Advertising 
4.D II  Letter sent to ‘hard to reach’ groups providing invitation to statutory 
exhibitions (English) (10th October 2014) 
 
 
 
Abergelli Power Limited. 49 York Place Edinburgh EH1 3JD Tel 0131 550 3395 Fax 0131 550 3399 
Company registration No. 8190497 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Headteacher, Bishop Vaughan Catholic School 
Mynydd Garnlwyd Road 
Morriston 
Swansea 
SA5 7QG 
 
10 October 2014 
 
Dear Sir or Madam, 
 
Abergelli Power Limited: proposed gas fired power plant project on land adjacent to the National Grid 
compressor station at Abergelli Farm, Felindre, Swansea SA5 7NN 
 
Statutory Consultation period: 13 October to 16 November 2014 
 
You may be aware that Abergelli Power Ltd (APL) wishes to develop a new gas-fired power plant on land 
adjacent to the National Grid gas compressor station at Abergelli Farm, Felindre, Swansea.  
 
As an organisation whose views are particularly important and to whom members of the community may turn 
for advice and information, we would like to keep you fully informed about this proposal. 
 
The proposed Project would produce up to 299 megawatts (MW) of electricity, and represent a significant 
multi million pound investment into the local economy. It could support up to 150 jobs during the 2-3 year 
construction and commissioning period, and up to 15 full-time jobs when operational.   
 
The modern gas-fired power plant would have low emissions and would help strengthen and secure the UK’s 
energy supply by providing back-up to intermittent renewable energy sources – primarily wind and solar. It 
would be designed to operate flexibly (i.e. not always running) and permitted to produce electricity for no 
more than 1,500 hours per year.  
 
As it will produce more than 50MW of electricity, the Project is classified as a Nationally Significant 
Infrastructure Project (NSIP), which means that a Development Consent Order (DCO) is required to build, 
operate and maintain it. The DCO application will be examined by the UK Planning Inspectorate, which will 
make a recommendation to the Secretary of State for Energy and Climate Change. The Secretary of State 
will make the final decision on the application.  
 
APL is undertaking a period of statutory public consultation between 13 October 2014 and 16 November 
2014. The consultation process will provide opportunities for local people to learn more about, comment on, 
and potentially influence the proposals before the DCO application is prepared and submitted. APL has 
produced a Statement of Community Consultation, and has consulted with City & County of Swansea 
Council on this.  Details of the consultation period have been published in the local media and the Statement 
of Community Consultation; along with other consultation documents, is available on the project website at 
www.abergellipower.co.uk.  
 
City & County of Swansea Council are a key consultee throughout the DCO process, and consultation with 
local people, businesses and organisations is a vitally important part of the process.   
 
Address
 
 
 
 
Following an informal and non-statutory round of consultation held in June, when the outline proposal was 
introduced to communities at three public exhibition events, the statutory round of consultation will show how 
the project has developed in the light of community feedback and various technical and environmental 
studies.  
 
Public exhibitions are to be held as part of this consultation, on: 
 
 
Wednesday 22nd October 2014, 15:00-20:00 – Llangyfelach Church Hall, Swansea Road, 
Llangyfelach, Swansea SA5 7JA ; 
 
Thursday 23rd October 2014, 14:00-19:00 – Felindre Welfare Hall, Felindre, Swansea, SA5 7NA; 
 
Friday 24th October 2014, 14:00-19:00 – Forge Fach Resource Centre, Hebron Road, Clydach, 
Swansea, SA6 5EJ; and 
 
Saturday 25th October 2014, 09:00-13:00 – Tircoed Village Hall, Y Cyswllt, Tircoed SA4 9QZ 
 
 Following the consultation period, APL will finalise its proposals before submitting a DCO application to the 
Planning Inspectorate. Subject to the consultation and planning process and financing, the power station 
could enter commercial operation in 2020.   
 
APL has been established by Watt Power Limited (WPL), an energy development company that wishes to 
develop electricity generation projects at Abergelli Farm and elsewhere in south Wales and the UK to 
support the UK Government’s drive to a low carbon economy.  
 
The following documents were produced to assist you in the consultation process and can be found at 
www.abergellipower.co.uk. 
 
 
A copy of the full Statement of Community Consultation, outlining APL’s plans for statutory 
community consultation; 
 
English and Welsh language versions of the Non-Technical Summary (NTS) of the Preliminary 
Environmental Information Report (PEIR); 
 
A copy of a brochure which outlines the content of the public exhibition panels to be used in the 
second phase of community consultation.  This has been distributed to more than 13,000 
households and businesses in the area 
 
I hope you will be able to visit one of our exhibitions to discuss our proposals in person. Otherwise, please 
feel free to contact the project team by phone on 0131 550 3395 or by email at info@abergellipower.co.uk. 
 
Yours faithfully, 
 
  
 
Norman Campbell 
Project Director 
Abergelli Power Limited 
 
 
 
 
  
Appendix 4.D: Phase 1 S47 Statutory Consultation: 
Advertising 
4.D III  Letter sent to ‘hard to reach’ groups providing invitation to statutory 
exhibitions (Welsh) (10th October 2014) 
 
 
 
Abergelli Power Limited. 49 York Place Edinburgh EH1 3JD Ffôn 0131 550 3395 Ffacs 0131 550 3399 
Rhif cofrestru’r cwmni 8190497 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Headteacher, Bishop Vaughan Catholic School 
Mynydd Garnlwyd Road 
Morriston 
Swansea 
SA5 7QG 
 
10 Hydref 2014 
 
Annwyl Syr/Fadam, 
 
Abergelli Power Cyfyngedig: prosiect gwaith pŵer arfaethedig sy’n rhedeg ar nwy ar dir gerllaw gorsaf 
gywasgu’r Grid Cenedlaethol ar Fferm Abergelli, Felindre, Abertawe SA5 7NN 
 
Cyfnod yr Ymgynghori Statudol: y 13eg o Hydref tan yr 16eg o Dachwedd 2014 
 
Efallai eich bod yn ymwybodol bod Abergelli Power Cyf (APL) yn dymuno datblygu gwaith pŵer newydd sy’n 
rhedeg ar nwy ar dir gerllaw gorsaf gywasgu nwy'r Grid Cenedlaethol ar Fferm Abergelli, Felindre, Abertawe. 
 
Fel sefydliad y mae’i farn yn neilltuol bwysig ac at bwy y gall aelodau’r gymuned droi am gyngor a 
gwybodaeth, hoffem eich hysbysu’n llawn am y cynigiad hwn yn rheolaidd. 
 
Byddai’r Prosiect arfaethedig yn cynhyrchu hyd at 299 megawat o drydan, ac yn cynrychioli buddsoddiad 
arwyddocaol gwerth miliynau lawer o bunnau yn yr economi lleol.  Gallai gynnal hyd at 150 o swyddi yn 
ystod y cyfnod o 2-3 blynedd o adeiladu a chomisiynu, a hyd at 15 o swyddi llawn amser pan fydd yn 
weithredol.    
 
Byddai gan y gwaith pŵer modern sy’n rhedeg ar nwy allyriadau isel a byddai’n helpu i gryfhau ac i ddiogelu 
cyflenwad ynni’r Deyrnas Unedig trwy ddarparu cyflenwad wrth gefn i ffynonellau ynni adnewyddadwy 
ysbeidiol - yn bennaf ynni’r gwynt a’r haul.  Byddai’n cael ei gynllunio i weithredu’n hyblyg (hynny yw, nid yn 
gweithredu bob amser) ac yn cael ei ganiatáu i gynhyrchu trydan am fan fwyaf 1,500 o oriau’r flwyddyn.   
 
Gan y bydd yn cynhyrchu mwy na 50 megawat o drydan, caiff y Prosiect ei gategoreiddio fel Prosiect 
Seilwaith Cenedlaethol ei Arwyddocâd (NSIP), sy’n golygu y bydd angen Gorchymyn Caniatâd Datblygu i’w 
adeiladu, i’w weithredu ac i’w gynnal.  Archwilir y cais am Orchymyn Caniatâd Datblygu gan Arolygiaeth 
Gynllunio’r Deyrnas Unedig, fydd yn gwneud argymhelliad i’r Ysgrifennydd Gwladol dros Ynni a Newid 
Hinsawdd.  Yr Ysgrifennydd Gwladol fydd yn gwneud y penderfyniad terfynol ar y cais. 
 
Mae APL yn cynnal cyfnod o ymgynghori cyhoeddus statudol rhwng y 13eg o Hydref, 2014 a’r 16eg o 
Dachwedd, 2014.  Bydd y broses ymgynghori yn darparu cyfleoedd i bobl leol ddysgu mwy am, bwrw sylw 
ar, a bod â’r potensial i ddylanwadu ar y cynigion cyn y caiff y cais am Orchymyn Caniatâd Datblygu ei 
baratoi a’i gyflwyno.  Lluniodd  APL Ddatganiad ynghylch Ymgynghori â’r Gymuned, ac mae wedi 
ymgynghori â Chyngor Dinas a Sir Abertawe ar hyn.  Cyhoeddwyd manylion y cyfnod ymgynghori yn y 
cyfryngau lleol, ac mae’r Datganiad ynghylch Ymgynghori â’r Gymuned, ynghyd â dogfennau ymgynghori 
eraill, ar gael ar wefan y prosiect yn www.abergellipower.co.uk  
 
Mae Cyngor Dinas a Sir Abertawe yn ymgynghorai allweddol trwy gydol y broses Gorchymyn Caniatâd 
Datblygu, ac mae ymgynghori â phobl, busnesau a sefydliadau lleol yn rhan hanfodol bwysig o’r broses.   
Address
 
 
 
 
 
Ar ôl cylch anffurfiol ac anstatudol o ymgynghori a gynhaliwyd ym mis Mehefin, pan gyflwynwyd y cynigiad 
amlinellol i gymunedau mewn tri o ddigwyddiadau arddangosfeydd cyhoeddus, bydd y cylch statudol o 
ymgynghori’n dangos sut mae’r prosiect wedi datblygu yng ngoleuni adborth gan y gymuned ac amrywiol 
astudiaethau technegol ac amgylcheddol.    
 
Cynhelir arddangosfeydd cyhoeddus fel rhan o’r ymgynghori hwn ar: 
 
 
Ddydd Mercher, yr 22ain o Hydref, 2014, 15:00-20:00 – Neuadd Eglwys Llangyfelach, Heol 
Abertawe, Llangyfelach, Abertawe SA5 7JA; 
 
Ddydd Iau, y 23ain o Hydref, 2014, 14:00-19:00 – Neuadd Les Felindre, Felindre, Abertawe, SA5 
7NA; 
 
Ddydd Gwener, y 24ain o Hydref, 2014, 14:00-19:00 – Canolfan Adnoddau Forge Fach, Heol 
Hebron, Clydach, Abertawe, SA6 5EJ; a 
 
Dydd Sadwrn, y 25ain o Hydref, 2014, 09:00-13:00 – Neuadd Bentref Tircoed, Y Cyswllt, Tircoed 
SA4 9QZ 
 
 Ar ôl y cyfnod ymgynghori, bydd APL yn cwblhau’u cynigion cyn cyflwyno cais am Orchymyn Caniatâd 
Datblygu gerbron yr Arolygiaeth Gynllunio.  Yn amodol ar y broses ymgynghori a chynllunio ac ariannu, gall 
yr orsaf bŵer ddechrau gweithredu’n fasnachol yn 2020.    
 
Sefydlwyd APL gan Watt Power Limited (WPL), sef cwmni datblygu ynni sy’n dymuno datblygu prosiectau 
cynhyrchu trydan ar Fferm Abergelli ac mewn mannau eraill yn Ne Cymru a’r Deyrnas Unedig i gefnogi 
ymgyrch Llywodraeth y Deyrnas Unedig i gael economi carbon isel.  
 
Crëwyd y dogfennau a ganlyn i’ch cynorthwyo yn y broses ymgynghori, a gellir eu canfod ar 
www.abergellipower.co.uk. 
 
 
Copi o’r Datganiad llawn ynghylch Ymgynghori â’r Gymuned, sy’n amlinellu cynlluniau APL ar gyfer 
ymgynghori statudol â’r gymuned; 
 
Fersiynau Cymraeg a Saesneg o’r Crynodeb Annhechnegol (NTS) o’r Adroddiad Gwybodaeth 
Amgylcheddol Rhagarweiniol (PEIR); 
 
Copi o lyfryn sy’n amlinellu cynnwys paneli’r arddangosfeydd cyhoeddus sydd i’w defnyddio yn ystod 
ail gam yr ymgynghori â’r gymuned.  Dosbarthwyd hwn i fwy na 13,000 o gartrefi a busnesau yn yr 
ardal. 
 
Gobeithiaf y byddwch yn gallu ymweld ag un o’n harddangosfeydd i drafod ein cynigion yn bersonol.  Neu fel 
arall, cofiwch deimlo bod pob croeso ichi gysylltu â thîm y prosiect ar y ffôn drwy ffonio 0131 550 3395 neu 
drwy anfon e-bost at info@abergellipower.co.uk. 
 
Yr eiddoch yn gywir,  
 
  
 
Norman Campbell 
Cyfarwyddwr y Prosiect  
Abergelli Power Cyfyngedig 
 
 
 
 
  
Appendix 4.D: Phase 1 S47 Statutory Consultation: 
Advertising 
4.D IV  Letter sent to locally elected representatives providing invitation to 
statutory exhibitions (English) (10th October 2014) 
 
 
 
Abergelli Power Limited. 49 York Place Edinburgh EH1 3JD Tel 0131 550 3395 Fax 0131 550 3399 
Company registration No. 8190497 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mr Derek Vaughan MEP 
Member for Wales 
4th Floor, Transport House 
1 Cathedral Road 
Cardiff 
CF11 9SD 
 
10 October 2014 
 
Dear Mr Vaughan, 
 
Abergelli Power Limited: proposed gas fired power plant project on land adjacent to the National Grid 
compressor station at Abergelli Farm, Felindre, Swansea SA5 7NN 
 
Statutory Consultation period: 13 October to 16 November 2014 
 
You may be aware that Abergelli Power Ltd (APL) wishes to develop a new gas-fired power plant on land 
adjacent to the National Grid gas compressor station at Abergelli Farm, Felindre, Swansea.  
 
As a person whose views are particularly important and to whom members of the community may turn for 
advice and information, we would like to keep you fully informed about this proposal. 
 
The proposed Project would produce up to 299 megawatts (MW) of electricity, and represent a significant 
multi million pound investment into the local economy. It could support up to 150 jobs during the 2-3 year 
construction and commissioning period, and up to 15 full-time jobs when operational.   
 
The modern gas-fired power plant would have low emissions and would help strengthen and secure the UK’s 
energy supply by providing back-up to intermittent renewable energy sources – primarily wind and solar. It 
would be designed to operate flexibly (i.e. not always running) and permitted to produce electricity for no 
more than 1,500 hours per year.  
 
As it will produce more than 50MW of electricity, the Project is classified as a Nationally Significant 
Infrastructure Project (NSIP), which means that a Development Consent Order (DCO) is required to build, 
operate and maintain it. The DCO application will be examined by the UK Planning Inspectorate, which will 
make a recommendation to the Secretary of State for Energy and Climate Change. The Secretary of State 
will make the final decision on the application.  
 
APL is undertaking a period of statutory public consultation between 13 October 2014 and 16 November 
2014. The consultation process will provide opportunities for local people to learn more about, comment on, 
and potentially influence the proposals before the DCO application is prepared and submitted. APL has 
produced a Statement of Community Consultation, and has consulted with City & County of Swansea 
Council on this.  Details of the consultation period have been published in the local media and the Statement 
of Community Consultation; along with other consultation documents, is available on the project website at 
www.abergellipower.co.uk.  
 
City & County of Swansea Council are a key consultee throughout the DCO process, and consultation with 
local people, businesses and organisations is a vitally important part of the process.   
 
Address
 
 
 
 
Following an informal and non-statutory round of consultation held in June, when the outline proposal was 
introduced to communities at three public exhibition events, the statutory round of consultation will show how 
the project has developed in the light of community feedback and various technical and environmental 
studies.  
 
Public exhibitions are to be held as part of this consultation, on: 
 
 
Wednesday 22nd October 2014, 15:00-20:00 – Llangyfelach Church Hall, Swansea Road, 
Llangyfelach, Swansea SA5 7JA ; 
 
Thursday 23rd October 2014, 14:00-19:00 – Felindre Welfare Hall, Felindre, Swansea, SA5 7NA; 
 
Friday 24th October 2014, 14:00-19:00 – Forge Fach Resource Centre, Hebron Road, Clydach, 
Swansea, SA6 5EJ; and 
 
Saturday 25th October 2014, 09:00-13:00 – Tircoed Village Hall, Y Cyswllt, Tircoed SA4 9QZ 
 
We would like to extend an invitation to you to come along between 2pm – 3pm on Wednesday 22nd 
October, prior to the event being opened to the general public, where we will be happy to give you a 
personal briefing on the project. You may, of course, attend any of the other events at another time that is 
convenient for you. Following the consultation period, APL will finalise its proposals before submitting a DCO 
application to the Planning Inspectorate. Subject to the consultation and planning process and financing, the 
power station could enter commercial operation in 2020.   
 
APL has been established by Watt Power Limited (WPL), an energy development company that wishes to 
develop electricity generation projects at Abergelli Farm and elsewhere in south Wales and the UK to 
support the UK Government’s drive to a low carbon economy.  
 
Enclosed is a CD with documents to assist you in the consultation process, including: 
 
 
A copy of the full Statement of Community Consultation, outlining APL’s plans for statutory 
community consultation; 
 
English and Welsh language versions of the Non-Technical Summary (NTS) of the Preliminary 
Environmental Information Report (PEIR); 
 
A copy of a brochure which outlines the content of the public exhibition panels to be used in the 
second phase of community consultation.  This has been distributed to more than 13,000 
households and businesses in the area 
 
I hope you will be able to visit one of our exhibitions to discuss our proposals in person. Otherwise, please 
feel free to contact the project team by phone on 0131 550 3395 or by email at info@abergellipower.co.uk. 
 
Yours sincerely, 
 
  
 
Norman Campbell 
Project Director 
Abergelli Power Limited 
 
Encs
 
 
 
  
Appendix 4.D: Phase 1 S47 Statutory Consultation: 
Advertising 
4.D V  Letter sent to locally elected representatives providing invitation to 
statutory exhibitions (Welsh) (10th October 2014) 
 
 
 
Abergelli Power Limited. 49 York Place Edinburgh EH1 3JD Ffôn 0131 550 3395 Ffacs 0131 550 3399 
Rhif cofrestru’r cwmni 8190497 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mr Derek Vaughan MEP 
Member for Wales 
4th Floor, Transport House 
1 Cathedral Road 
Cardiff 
CF11 9SD 
 
10 Hydref 2014 
 
Annwyl Mr Vaughan, 
 
Abergelli Power Cyfyngedig: prosiect gwaith pŵer arfaethedig sy’n rhedeg ar nwy ar dir gerllaw gorsaf 
gywasgu’r Grid Cenedlaethol ar Fferm Abergelli, Felindre, Abertawe SA5 7NN 
 
Cyfnod yr Ymgynghori Statudol: y 13eg o Hydref tan yr 16eg o Dachwedd 2014 
 
Efallai eich bod yn ymwybodol bod Abergelli Power Cyf (APL) yn dymuno datblygu gwaith pŵer newydd sy’n 
rhedeg ar nwy ar dir gerllaw gorsaf gywasgu nwy'r Grid Cenedlaethol ar Fferm Abergelli, Felindre, Abertawe. 
 
Fel person y mae’i farn yn neilltuol bwysig ac at bwy y gall aelodau’r gymuned droi am gyngor a gwybodaeth, 
hoffem eich hysbysu’n llawn am y cynigiad hwn yn rheolaidd. 
 
Byddai’r Prosiect arfaethedig yn cynhyrchu hyd at 299 megawat o drydan, ac yn cynrychioli buddsoddiad 
arwyddocaol gwerth miliynau lawer o bunnau yn yr economi lleol.  Gallai gynnal hyd at 150 o swyddi yn 
ystod y cyfnod o 2-3 blynedd o adeiladu a chomisiynu, a hyd at 15 o swyddi llawn amser pan fydd yn 
weithredol.    
 
Byddai gan y gwaith pŵer modern sy’n rhedeg ar nwy allyriadau isel a byddai’n helpu i gryfhau ac i ddiogelu 
cyflenwad ynni’r Deyrnas Unedig trwy ddarparu cyflenwad wrth gefn i ffynonellau ynni adnewyddadwy 
ysbeidiol - yn bennaf ynni’r gwynt a’r haul.  Byddai’n cael ei gynllunio i weithredu’n hyblyg (hynny yw, nid yn 
gweithredu bob amser) ac yn cael ei ganiatáu i gynhyrchu trydan am fan fwyaf 1,500 o oriau’r flwyddyn.   
 
Gan y bydd yn cynhyrchu mwy na 50 megawat o drydan, caiff y Prosiect ei gategoreiddio fel Prosiect 
Seilwaith Cenedlaethol ei Arwyddocâd (NSIP), sy’n golygu y bydd angen Gorchymyn Caniatâd Datblygu i’w 
adeiladu, i’w weithredu ac i’w gynnal.  Archwilir y cais am Orchymyn Caniatâd Datblygu gan Arolygiaeth 
Gynllunio’r Deyrnas Unedig, fydd yn gwneud argymhelliad i’r Ysgrifennydd Gwladol dros Ynni a Newid 
Hinsawdd.  Yr Ysgrifennydd Gwladol fydd yn gwneud y penderfyniad terfynol ar y cais. 
 
Mae APL yn cynnal cyfnod o ymgynghori cyhoeddus statudol rhwng y 13eg o Hydref, 2014 a’r 16eg o 
Dachwedd, 2014.  Bydd y broses ymgynghori yn darparu cyfleoedd i bobl leol ddysgu mwy am, bwrw sylw 
ar, a bod â’r potensial i ddylanwadu ar y cynigion cyn y caiff y cais am Orchymyn Caniatâd Datblygu ei 
baratoi a’i gyflwyno.  Lluniodd  APL Ddatganiad ynghylch Ymgynghori â’r Gymuned, ac mae wedi 
ymgynghori â Chyngor Dinas a Sir Abertawe ar hyn.  Cyhoeddwyd manylion y cyfnod ymgynghori yn y 
cyfryngau lleol, ac mae’r Datganiad ynghylch Ymgynghori â’r Gymuned, ynghyd â dogfennau ymgynghori 
eraill, ar gael ar wefan y prosiect yn www.abergellipower.co.uk  
 
Mae Cyngor Dinas a Sir Abertawe yn ymgynghorai allweddol trwy gydol y broses Gorchymyn Caniatâd 
Datblygu, ac mae ymgynghori â phobl, busnesau a sefydliadau lleol yn rhan hanfodol bwysig o’r broses.   
Address
 
 
 
 
 
Ar ôl cylch anffurfiol ac anstatudol o ymgynghori a gynhaliwyd ym mis Mehefin, pan gyflwynwyd y cynigiad 
amlinellol i gymunedau mewn tri o ddigwyddiadau arddangosfeydd cyhoeddus, bydd y cylch statudol o 
ymgynghori’n dangos sut mae’r prosiect wedi datblygu yng ngoleuni adborth gan y gymuned ac amrywiol 
astudiaethau technegol ac amgylcheddol.    
 
Cynhelir arddangosfeydd cyhoeddus fel rhan o’r ymgynghori hwn ar: 
 
 
Ddydd Mercher, yr 22ain o Hydref, 2014, 15:00-20:00 – Neuadd Eglwys Llangyfelach, Heol 
Abertawe, Llangyfelach, Abertawe SA5 7JA; 
 
Ddydd Iau, y 23ain o Hydref, 2014, 14:00-19:00 – Neuadd Les Felindre, Felindre, Abertawe, SA5 
7NA; 
 
Ddydd Gwener, y 24ain o Hydref, 2014, 14:00-19:00 – Canolfan Adnoddau Forge Fach, Heol 
Hebron, Clydach, Abertawe, SA6 5EJ; a 
 
Dydd Sadwrn, y 25ain o Hydref, 2014, 09:00-13:00 – Neuadd Bentref Tircoed, Y Cyswllt, Tircoed 
SA4 9QZ 
 
Hoffem estyn gwahoddiad ichi ddod draw rhwng 2yp – 3yp ddydd Mercher, yr 22ain o Hydref, cyn yr agorir y 
digwyddiad i’r cyhoedd, lle byddwn yn falch iawn o’ch briffio’n bersonol am y prosiect.  Gallwch, wrth gwrs, 
fynychu unrhyw rai o’r digwyddiadau eraill ryw adeg arall sy’n gyfleus i chi. Ar ôl y cyfnod ymgynghori, bydd 
APL yn cwblhau’u cynigion cyn cyflwyno cais am Orchymyn Caniatâd Datblygu gerbron yr Arolygiaeth 
Gynllunio.  Yn amodol ar y broses ymgynghori a chynllunio ac ariannu, gall yr orsaf bŵer ddechrau 
gweithredu’n fasnachol yn 2020.    
 
Sefydlwyd APL gan Watt Power Limited (WPL), sef cwmni datblygu ynni sy’n dymuno datblygu prosiectau 
cynhyrchu trydan ar Fferm Abergelli ac mewn mannau eraill yn Ne Cymru a’r Deyrnas Unedig i gefnogi 
ymgyrch Llywodraeth y Deyrnas Unedig i gael economi carbon isel.  
 
Mae yn Gryno Ddisg yn amgaeedig ynghyd â dogfennau i’ch cynorthwyo yn y broses ymgynghori, yn 
cynnwys: 
 
 
Copi o’r Datganiad llawn ynghylch Ymgynghori â’r Gymuned, sy’n amlinellu cynlluniau APL ar gyfer 
ymgynghori statudol â’r gymuned; 
 
Fersiynau Cymraeg a Saesneg o’r Crynodeb Annhechnegol (NTS) o’r Adroddiad Gwybodaeth 
Amgylcheddol Rhagarweiniol (PEIR); 
 
Copi o lyfryn sy’n amlinellu cynnwys paneli’r arddangosfeydd cyhoeddus sydd i’w defnyddio yn ystod 
ail gam yr ymgynghori â’r gymuned.  Dosbarthwyd hwn i fwy na 13,000 o gartrefi a busnesau yn yr 
ardal. 
 
Gobeithiaf y byddwch yn gallu ymweld ag un o’n harddangosfeydd i drafod ein cynigion yn bersonol.  Neu fel 
arall, cofiwch deimlo bod pob croeso ichi gysylltu â thîm y prosiect ar y ffôn drwy ffonio 0131 550 3395 neu 
drwy anfon e-bost at info@abergellipower.co.uk. 
 
Yr eiddoch yn gywir,  
 
  
 
Norman Campbell 
Cyfarwyddwr y Prosiect  
Abergelli Power Cyfyngedig 
 
Amgaeedigion
 
 
 
  
Appendix 4.D: Phase 1 S47 Statutory Consultation: 
Advertising 
4.D VI  List of locally elected representatives to whom letter was sent 
providing invitation to statutory exhibitions 
 
Section 47 Letter sent to MEPs, AMs, MPs, local councillors and Community 
Councils – Distribution List 
Organisation / Position 
Member of the European Parliament for Wales 
Member of the European Parliament for Wales 
Member of the European Parliament for Wales 
Member of the European Parliament for Wales 
Constituency Assembly Member for Gower 
Constituency Assembly Member for Swansea East 
Member of Parliament for Gower 
Member of Parliament for Swansea East 
Regional Assembly Members for South Wales West 
Regional Assembly Members for South Wales West 
Regional Assembly Members for South Wales West 
Regional Assembly Members for South Wales West 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Bonymaen 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Bonymaen 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Clydach 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Clydach 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Cockett 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Cockett 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Cockett 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Cwmbwrla 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Cwmbwrla 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Cwmbwrla 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Gorseinon 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Kingsbridge 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Landore 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Landore 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Llangyfelach 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Llansamlet 
Organisation / Position 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Llansamlet 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Llansamlet 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Llansamlet 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Lower Lougher 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Mawr 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Morriston 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Morriston 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Morriston 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Morriston 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Morriston 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Mynyddbach 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Mynyddbach 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Mynyddbach 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Penderry 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Penderry 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Penderry 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Penllergaer 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Penyrheol 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Penyrheol 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Pontarddulais 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Pontarddulais 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Upper Lougher 
Members of Clydach Community Council 
Members of Gorseinon Town Council 
Members of Grovesend & Waungron Community Council 
Members of Llangyfelach Community Council 
Members of Llwchwr Community Council 
Members of Mawr Community Council 
Members of Penllergaer Community Council 
Members of Pontlliw & Tircoed Community Council 
 
Section 47 Letter sent to MEPs, AMs, MPs, local councillors and Community 
Councils – Distribution List 
Organisation / Position 
Member of the European Parliament for Wales 
Member of the European Parliament for Wales 
Member of the European Parliament for Wales 
Member of the European Parliament for Wales 
Constituency Assembly Member for Gower 
Constituency Assembly Member for Swansea East 
Member of Parliament for Gower 
Member of Parliament for Swansea East 
Regional Assembly Members for South Wales West 
Regional Assembly Members for South Wales West 
Regional Assembly Members for South Wales West 
Regional Assembly Members for South Wales West 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Bonymaen 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Bonymaen 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Clydach 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Clydach 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Cockett 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Cockett 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Cockett 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Cwmbwrla 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Cwmbwrla 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Cwmbwrla 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Gorseinon 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Kingsbridge 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Landore 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Landore 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Llangyfelach 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Llansamlet 
Organisation / Position 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Llansamlet 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Llansamlet 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Llansamlet 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Lower Lougher 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Mawr 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Morriston 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Morriston 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Morriston 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Morriston 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Morriston 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Mynyddbach 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Mynyddbach 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Mynyddbach 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Penderry 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Penderry 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Penderry 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Penllergaer 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Penyrheol 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Penyrheol 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Pontarddulais 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Pontarddulais 
City & County of Swansea Councillor for Upper Lougher 
Members of Clydach Community Council 
Members of Gorseinon Town Council 
Members of Grovesend & Waungron Community Council 
Members of Llangyfelach Community Council 
Members of Llwchwr Community Council 
Members of Mawr Community Council 
Members of Penllergaer Community Council 
Members of Pontlliw & Tircoed Community Council 
Organisation / Position 
Mawr Development Trust 
 
 
 
 
  
Appendix 4.D: Phase 1 S47 Statutory Consultation: 
Advertising 
4.D VII  Leaflet sent to local households and businesses providing invitation to 
statutory exhibitions (English/Welsh) 
Proposal to build a 
gas-fired power station
by Abergelli Power 
Cynigiad i adeiladu gorsaf 
b ˆwer  sy’n rhedeg ar nwy
gan Abergelli Power
The Project
Y Prosiect
Abergelli Power Limited (APL) proposes to develop a 
gas-fired electricity generation project on land adjacent 
to the National Grid gas compressor station at Abergelli 
Farm, Felindre, Swansea. The Project includes a power 
generation plant and its electrical and gas connections. 
The Project would have a rated electrical output of up 
to 299MW.
Who is Abergelli Power? 
APL has been established by Watt Power Limited to 
develop the Project. Watt Power is seeking to develop 
electricity generation projects at Abergelli Farm and 
elsewhere in south Wales and the UK to support the 
UK Government’s drive to a low carbon economy.
Further information about APL and the Project can 
be found on the Abergelli Power website http://www.
abergellipower.co.uk.
Mae Abergelli Power Cyfyngedig (APL) yn cynnig datblygu 
prosiect cynhyrchu trydan sy’n rhedeg ar nwy ar dir gerllaw 
gorsaf gywasgu nwy’r Grid Cenedlaethol ar Fferm Abergelli, 
Felindre, Abertawe. Mae’r Prosiect yn cynnwys gwaith 
cynhyrchu p  ˆwer a’i gysylltiadau trydanol a nwy.  Byddai gan 
y Prosiect gyfradd allbwn trydanol o hyd at 299 megawat.
Pwy yw Abergelli Power?  
Mae APL wedi’i sefydlu gan Watt Power Limited i ddatblygu’r 
Prosiect.  Mae Watt Power yn ceisio datblygu prosiectau 
cynhyrchu trydan ar Fferm Abergelli ac mewn mannau eraill 
yn Ne Cymru ac yn y Deyrnas Unedig i gefnogi ymgyrch 
Llywodraeth y DU i gael economi carbon isel.  
Gellir canfod rhagor o wybodaeth am APL ac am y Prosiect 
ar wefan Abergelli Power http://www.abergellipower.co.uk.
The objectives of this public 
consultation are to provide a 
better understanding of the 
Abergelli Power Project and 
to give the local community 
the opportunity to have a say 
on the proposal.
Amcanion yr ymgynghoriad 
cyhoeddus hwn yw darparu 
gwell dealltwriaeth o Brosiect 
Abergelli Power a rhoi’r cyfle 
i’r gymuned leol gael dweud 
ei dweud am y cynigiad.
Planning and public 
consultation
The Project is classified as a Nationally Significant 
Infrastructure Project, which means that a Development 
Consent Order (DCO) is required to build, operate and 
maintain it. The DCO Application will be examined by the 
Planning Inspectorate who will make a recommendation 
to the Secretary of State for Energy and Climate Change 
(Secretary of State). The final decision on the Application will 
be made by the Secretary of State.
The figure below provides an overview of the DCO 
Application Process, as well as the current position of 
the Project in this process. Further information about the 
DCO Application Process is available on the Planning 
Inspectorate’s website (http://infrastructure.planningportal.
gov.uk).
Consultation with local people, businesses, and organisations 
is an essential part of the DCO Application Process and will 
help to inform the final design of the Project.
This leaflet describes the Project and the statutory 
consultation period which is taking place over a 35-day 
period from 13 October 2014 to 16 November 2014. APL 
would like to invite your views on the project – the ‘Get in 
Touch’ section of this leaflet describes how you can provide 
your views.
Key Milestones
Cynllunio ac ymgynghori â’r 
cyhoedd
Caiff y Prosiect ei gategoreiddio fel Prosiect Seilwaith 
Cenedlaethol ei Arwyddocâd, sy’n golygu bod angen 
Gorchymyn Caniatâd Datblygu (DCO) i’w adeiladu, i’w 
weithredu ac i’w gynnal.  Archwilir y Cais am Orchymyn 
Caniatâd Datblygu gan yr Arolygiaeth Gynllunio fydd yn 
gwneud argymhelliad i’r Ysgrifennydd Gwladol dros Ynni 
a Newid Hinsawdd (Ysgrifennydd Gwladol).  Gwneir y 
penderfyniad terfynol ar y Cais gan yr Ysgrifennydd Gwladol.
Mae’r ffigwr isod yn darparu trosolwg ar y Broses 
Ymgeisio am Orchymyn Caniatâd Datblygu, yn ogystal â 
sefyllfa gyfredol y Prosiect yn y broses hon.  Mae rhagor o 
wybodaeth am y Broses Ymgeisio am Orchymyn Caniatâd 
Datblygu ar gael ar wefan yr Arolygiaeth Gynllunio (http://
infrastructure.planningportal.gov.uk).
Mae ymgynghori â phobl, busnesau a sefydliadau lleol yn 
rhan hanfodol o’r Broses Ymgeisio am Orchymyn Caniatâd 
Datblygu a bydd yn helpu i oleuo dyluniad terfynol y Prosiect. 
Mae’r daflen hon yn disgrifio’r Prosiect a’r cyfnod ymgynghori 
statudol sy’n digwydd dros gyfnod o 35 diwrnod o’r 13eg o 
Hydref, 2014 tan yr 16eg o Dachwedd, 2014.  Hoffai APL 
eich gwahodd i rannu’ch barn am y prosiect – mae adran 
‘Cysylltwch â Ni’ y daflen hon yn disgrifio sut y gallwch 
roi’ch barn.  
Cerrig Milltir Allweddol
Construction start
Mae adeiladu’n
dechrau
Commercial
operation
Gweithrediadau
masnachol
Statutory Consultation
Period
Cyfnod Ymgynghori
Statudol
2014
13 Oct – 16 Nov
13 Hydref – 16 Tachwedd
Statutory Public 
Exhibitions
Arddangosfeydd 
cyhoeddus statudol  
2014
22 Oct – 25 Oct 
22 Hydref – 25 Hydref  
2017/18
Submission of Application 
for Development Consent 
Order to Planning 
Inspectorate
Cyflwyno Cais am Ganiatâd 
Datblygu i’r Arolygiaeth 
Gynllunio
2015
Decision from 
Secretary of State
Penderfyniad gan 
yr Ysgrifennydd 
Gwladol 
2016
2019/20
Pre Application
Cyn Ymgeisio
Examination & Decision
Archwiliad a Phenderfyniad
Finance, Construction & Operations
Cyllid, Adeiladu a Gweithrediadau
This visual is based on a power generation plant 
including five gas turbine generators. If fewer units are 
required, they may be larger (but the stack height will 
not increase). Additional visuals will be available at the 
public exhibitions and in other consultation materials.
Mae’r ddelwedd weledol hon wedi’i seilio ar waith 
cynhyrchu p  ˆwer yn cynnwys pum generadur tyrbin nwy.  
Os bydd angen llai o unedau, gallant fod yn fwy (ond 
ni fydd uchder y simnai’n cynyddu). Bydd delweddau 
ychwanegol ar gael yn yr arddangosfeydd cyhoeddus ac 
mewn deunyddiau ymgynghori eraill.  
Key details of the Project
The key details of the Project are:
 
l The construction, operation and maintenance of a  
 
 
simple cycle gas turbine power generation plant with 
 
 
a rated electrical output of up to 299MW;
 
l The site for the power generation plant covers an 
 
 
area of approximately 6ha and is located on land 
 
 
adjacent to the National Grid gas compressor  
 
 
station at Abergelli Farm, Felindre, Swansea;
 
l The power generation plant will have up to 5 
 
 
stacks, each up to 40m in height;
 
l The power generation plant will produce electricity  
 
 
from natural gas;
 
l The construction of a new underground pipeline to
 
  
bring natural gas to the power generation plant  
 
 
from the existing National Gas Transmission System
 
 
located nearby;
 
l The construction of a new underground electrical
 
 
 connection to export electricity from the power 
 
 
generation plant to the existing Swansea North 
 
 
electricity substation located nearby;
 
l The route for accessing the Project site is yet to 
 
 
be finalised. Two possible options are being 
 
 
evaluated. The first option is to extend the existing
 
 
road to National Grid’s Swansea North substation, 
 
 
which is accessed via the B4489 to the west of the
 
 
power generation plant site. The alternative option
 
 
is to use the existing road to Abergelli Farm via 
 
 
Rhyd-y-Pandy Road, giving access to the site from 
 
 
the north;
 
l The power generation plant is designed to provide
 
 
back-up generation capacity which can operate 
 
 
flexibly to respond quickly and efficiently to both 
 
 
short-term variation in customer demand and 
 
 
intermittent output from renewable power  
 
 
generation. It is anticipated that it will operate for 
 
 
no more than 1500 hours per year; and 
 
l Subject to public consultation, planning and 
 
 
financing, the Project could enter commercial
 
 
operation in 2020.
Manylion allweddol y Prosiect
Manylion allweddol y Prosiect yw:
 
l Adeiladu, gweithredu a chynnal a chadw gwaith
 
 
cynhyrchu p  ˆwer tyrbin nwy cylch syml sydd â chyfradd
 
 
allbwn trydanol o hyd at 299 megawat;
 
l Mae’r safle ar gyfer y gwaith cynhyrchu p  ˆwer yn 
 
 
ymestyn dros ardal sydd oddeutu 6 hectar ac 
 
 
fe’i lleolir ar dir gerllaw gorsaf gywasgu nwy’r Grid
 
 
Cenedlaethol ar Fferm Abergelli, Felindre, 
 
 
Abertawe; 
 
l Bydd gan y gwaith cynhyrchu p  ˆwer hyd at 5 
 
 
simnai, a bydd pob un hyd at 40 metr o uchder;
 
l Bydd y gwaith cynhyrchu p  ˆwer yn cynhyrchu trydan
 
 
o nwy naturiol;
 
l Adeiladu piblinell danddaearol newydd i 
 
 
ddod â nwy naturiol i’r gwaith cynhyrchu p  ˆwer 
 
 
o’r System Trawsyrru Nwy Genedlaethol bresennol
 
 
 a leolir gerllaw; 
 
l Adeiladu cysylltiad trydanol tanddaearol newydd
 
 
i drosglwyddo trydan o’r gwaith cynhyrchu p  ˆwer 
 
 
i is-orsaf drydan bresennol Gogledd Abertawe a 
 
 
leolir gerllaw;
 
l Mae’r llwybr ar gyfer mynediad i safle’r Prosiect
 
 
eto i’w bennu’n derfynol. Mae dau opsiwn posibl
 
 
yn cael eu gwerthuso. Yr opsiwn cyntaf yw 
 
 
ymestyn y ffordd bresennol i is-orsaf Gogledd 
 
 
Abertawe y Grid Cenedlaethol, yr eir ati ar hyd 
 
 
ffordd y B4489 i’r gorllewin o safle’r gwaith 
 
 
cynhyrchu p  ˆwer. Yr opsiwn arall yw defnyddio’r
 
 
ffordd bresennol i Fferm Abergelli drwy Heol Rhyd-
 
 
y-Pandy, gan roi mynediad i’r safle o’r gogledd;
 
l Mae’r gwaith cynhyrchu p  ˆwer wedi’i ddylunio i 
 
 
ddarparu capasiti cynhyrchu wrth gefn a all 
 
 
weithredu’n hyblyg i ymateb yn gyflym ac 
 
 
yn effeithlon i amrywiad byrdymor yn y galw gan
 
 
gwsmeriaid ac allbwn ysbeidiol a ddaw o 
 
 
gynhyrchu p  ˆwer adnewyddadwy. Rhagwelir na 
 
 
fydd yn weithredol am fwy na 1500 o oriau’r 
 
 
flwyddyn; ac
 
l Yn amodol ar ymgynghori â’r cyhoedd, cynllunio ac
 
 
ariannu, gall y Prosiect ddechrau gweithredu’n
 
 
fasnachol yn 2020.
Indicative plan showing the main elements of the Project. 
The red line boundary marks the boundary of the Project 
site, and includes all land necessary to carry out the 
Project.
Cynllun dangosol sy’n dangos prif elfennau’r Prosiect.  
Mae’r terfyn sydd â llinell goch yn nodi terfyn safle’r 
Prosiect, ac mae’n cynnwys yr holl dir sy’n angenrheidiol i 
gwblhau’r Prosiect.
Why Abergelli Farm?
The site at Abergelli Farm has two key advantages:
 
l The site is close to the national gas and electricity  
 
 
transmission networks; and
 
l National Grid encourages new electricity   
 
 
generation development in south Wales, close to  
 
 
the main sources of electrical demand in the UK.
The need for gas generation
The Government’s Overarching National Policy Statement for 
Energy states that “...gas will continue to play an important 
role in the electricity sector – providing vital flexibility to 
support an increasing amount of low-carbon generation and 
to maintain security of supply.”
The Welsh Government’s publication ‘Energy Wales: A 
Low Carbon Transition’ states that “...in the short term, 
gas, nuclear and bio-energy will provide the energy to 
compensate for the intermittency in supply from renewable 
resources.”
Gas is a reliable fuel source and is acknowledged by both the 
UK and Welsh Governments as being essential to support a 
low carbon economy. In addition, gas can provide back-up to 
power generation from renewable sources, particularly wind 
power – which is an increasingly prevalent but intermittent 
energy source. Modern gas-fired power plants are among 
the most efficient and cleanest forms of electricity power 
generation. The need for the Project is established through 
the Government’s National Policy Statements and is not a 
topic for consultation.
Development of the Project
APL first shared its initial plans for the Project at public 
exhibitions in June 2014. Since this period of non-statutory 
consultation, APL has responded to and acted upon 
comments on its plans.
Several significant changes have occurred since the period 
of non-statutory consultation in June, including:
 
l A reduction in the maximum height of the stacks  
 
 
from 60m to 40m;
 
l A narrowing of the gas connection opportunity 
 
 
area to one route corridor with an indicative gas 
 
 
connection route; and
 
l A narrowing of the electrical connection
 
 
opportunity area to one route corridor with an
  
 
indicative electrical connection route.
Detailed technical and environmental studies as well as 
refinements to the design of the Project are ongoing. APL is 
engaging with bodies such as the City & County of Swansea 
(CCS), Natural Resources Wales (NRW) and local AMs and 
MPs to ensure that the Project is designed, built, operated 
and maintained to the highest relevant and current safety 
and environmental standards.
For the purpose of consultation, APL has prepared a 
Preliminary Environmental Information Report (PEIR) for 
the Project and a non-technical summary of the PEIR. These 
documents can be viewed on the Abergelli Power website 
(www.abergellipower.co.uk) from 13 October 2014.
The documents are also available for viewing free of charge 
from 13 October 2014 until 16 November 2014 at the 
following libraries (opening times vary):
Swansea Central Library
Civic Centre, Oystermouth Road, Swansea SA1 3SN,
01792 636464. Tue-Fri; 8.30-20.00. Sat-Sun; 10.00-16.00.
Clydach Library
High Street, Clydach, Swansea SA6 5LN. 01792 843300
Mon-Sat; 9.30-17.30. 
Gorseinon Library
15 West Street, Gorseinon, Swansea SA4 4AA,
01792 516780. Mon-Thurs; 9.00-18.00. Fri; 9.00-19.00. 
Sat; 9.00-17.00.
Morriston Library
Treharne Road, Morriston, Swansea SA6 7AA.
01792 516770. Mon-Fri; 9.00-18.00. Sat; 9.00-17.00.
Pontarddulais Library
St Michael’s Avenue, Pontarddulais, Swansea SA4 8TE.
01792 882822. Mon-Thu; 9.00-13.00 and 14.00-17.00.
Fri; 9.00-13.00 and 14.00-18.00. Sat; 10.00- 13.00.
The documents are also available for viewing free of 
charge at the office of City & County of Swansea Council, 
Penllergaer, Swansea SA4 9GJ (01792 636000) from 13 
October 2014 until 16 November 2014 between 8.30–
17.00 Monday – Thursday and 8.30 – 16.30 Friday.
Pam Fferm Abergelli?
Mae gan y safle ar Fferm Abergelli ddwy fantais allweddol:
 
l Mae’r safle’n agos at y rhwydweithiau trawsyrru  
 
 
nwy a thrydan cenedlaethol;
 
l Mae’r Grid Cenedlaethol yn annog datblygiad
 
 
cynhyrchu trydan newydd yn Ne Cymru, yn agos at
 
 
brif ffynonellau’r galw am drydan yn y Deyrnas Unedig.
Yr angen i gynhyrchu nwy
Mae Datganiad Polisi Cenedlaethol Trosfwaol y Llywodraeth 
ar gyfer Ynni yn datgan “...y bydd nwy’n parhau i fod â 
rôl bwysig yn y sector trydan – gan ddarparu hyblygrwydd 
hanfodol i ategu cyfaint cynyddol o gynhyrchu carbon isel ac 
i gynnal sicrwydd y cyflenwad.”
Mae’r ddogfen a gyhoeddwyd gan Lywodraeth Cymru, ‘Ynni 
Cymru: Newid Carbon Isel’, yn datgan mai “...yn y byrdymor, 
bydd nwy, niwclear a bio-ynni’n darparu’r ynni i wneud 
iawn am yr ysbeidioldeb o ran cyflenwi oddi wrth adnoddau 
adnewyddadwy.”     
Mae nwy’n ffynhonnell danwydd sy’n ddibynadwy ac fe’i 
cydnabyddir gan Lywodraethau’r Deyrnas Unedig a Chymru, 
fel ei gilydd, fel ffynhonnell hanfodol i gynnal economi 
carbon isel.  Yn ychwanegol, gall nwy ddarparu p  ˆwer wrth 
gefn i’r p  ˆwer a gynhyrchir  o ffynonellau adnewyddadwy, 
yn enwedig p  ˆwer gwynt - sy’n ffynhonnell ynni cynyddol 
gyffredin ond ysbeidiol. Mae gweithfeydd p ˆwer modern sy’n 
rhedeg ar nwy ymysg y mathau mwyaf effeithlon a glanaf o 
weithfeydd cynhyrchu p  ˆwer trydan. Mae’r angen am y Prosiect 
wedi’i gadarnhau trwy Ddatganiadau Polisi Cenedlaethol y 
Llywodraeth ac nid yw’n bwnc ar gyfer ymgynghori.
Datblygu’r Prosiect
Rhannodd APL eu cynlluniau cychwynnol ar gyfer y Prosiect 
am y tro cyntaf mewn arddangosfeydd cyhoeddus ym mis 
Mehefin, 2014. Ers y cyfnod hwn o ymgynghori anstatudol, 
mae APL wedi ymateb i ac wedi gweithredu ar sylwadau 
ynghylch eu cynlluniau. 
Mae yna amryw o newidiadau arwyddocaol wedi digwydd 
ers y cyfnod o ymgynghori anstatudol ym mis Mehefin, gan 
gynnwys:
 
l Gostyngiad yn uchder mwyaf y simneiau o 60 metr
 
 
i 40 metr;
 
l Culhau ardal gyfle’r cysylltiad nwy i un coridor
 
 
llwybr gyda llwybr cysylltiad nwy dangosol; a
 
l Culhau coridor llwybr y cysylltiad trydanol gyda
 
 
llwybr cysylltiad trydanol dangosol.
Mae astudiaethau technegol ac amgylcheddol manwl, 
yn ogystal â gorffeniadau yn nyluniad y Prosiect, yn mynd 
rhagddynt. Mae  APL yn ymgysylltu â chyrff fel Cyngor Dinas a 
Sir Abertawe, Cyfoeth Naturiol Cymru (NRW) ac Aelodau lleol 
y Cynulliad ac Aelodau Seneddol lleol i sicrhau bod y Prosiect 
yn cael ei ddylunio, ei adeiladu, ei weithredu a’i gynnal hyd at 
y safonau diogelwch ac amgylcheddol perthnasol a chyfredol 
uchaf.  
Er diben ymgynghori, mae APL wedi paratoi Adroddiad 
Gwybodaeth Amgylcheddol Rhagarweiniol (PEIR) ar gyfer y 
Prosiect a chrynodeb annhechnegol o’r PEIR.  Gellir gweld y 
dogfennau hyn ar wefan Abergelli Power (www.abergellipower.
co.uk) o’r 13eg o Hydref, 2014.
Mae’r dogfennau hefyd ar gael i’w gweld yn ddi-dâl o’r 13eg o 
Hydref, 2014 tan yr 16eg o Dachwedd, 2014 yn y llyfrgelloedd 
a ganlyn (mae amseroedd agor yn amrywio):
Llyfrgell Ganolog Abertawe
Y Ganolfan Ddinesig, Heol Ystumllwynarth, Abertawe SA1 
3SN. 01792 636464.Mawrth-Gwener; 8.30-20.00. 
Sadwrn-Sul; 10.00-16.00
Llyfrgell Clydach
Stryd Fawr, Clydach, Abertawe SA6 5LN. 01792 843300
Llun-Sadwrn; 9.30-17.30
Llyfrgell Gorseinon 
15 Stryd y Gorllewin, Gorseinon, Abertawe SA4 4AA.
01792 516780. Llun-Iau; 9.00-18.00. Gwener; 9.00-19.00. 
Sadwrn; 9.00-17.00. 
Llyfrgell Treforys
Heol Treharne, Treforys, Abertawe SA6 7AA.
Llun-Iau; 9.00-13.00 a 14.00-17.00. Gwener; 9.00-13.00 a 
14.00-18.00. Sadwrn; 10.00-13.00. 
Llyfrgell Pontarddulais
Rhodfa St Michael, Pontarddulais, Abertawe SA4 8TE.
01792 882822. Llun-Iau; 9.00-13.00 a 14.00-17.00.
Gwener; 9.00-13.00 a 14.00-18.00. Sadwrn; 9.00- 13.00.
Mae’r dogfennau hefyd ar gael i’w gweld yn ddi-dâl yn 
swyddfa Cyngor Dinas a Sir Abertawe, Penllergaer, Abertawe 
SA4 9GJ (Ffôn 01792 636000) o’r 13eg o Hydref, 2014 tan 
yr 16eg o Dachwedd, 2014 rhwng 8.30–17.00 dydd Llun – 
dydd Iau, a 8.30 – 16.30 dydd Gwener.
Environment
APL’s steps to mitigate the impact of the Project on the 
local environment during its construction, operation and 
maintenance are a major part of the consultation and 
planning process.
Due to the nature and size of the Project, it is classified as 
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) development and 
so APL is undertaking an EIA which considers the potential 
impacts of the Project. APL has published its preliminary EIA 
findings in the PEIR. These findings indicate the following 
key potential impacts, all of which will be mitigated through 
the final design process:
 
l Transport – impact to the local network from
 
 
construction traffic confined to the construction and
 
 
decommissioning periods; 
 
l Air quality and emissions – resulting from 
 
 
construction activities and during operation of the 
 
 
power generation plant;
 
l Noise – potential increase in background noise 
 
 
during construction and operation within the 
 
 
vicinity of the site; 
 
l Visual impact and effects on cultural heritage 
 
 
setting – introduction of up to five stacks up to 
 
 
40m in height into the local landscape; and
 
l Local ecology – no anticipated negative impacts, 
 
 
but opportunity to improve local habitat through 
 
 
additional planting.
Community benefits
This £200m Project would be a substantial investment in the 
area and would deliver significant economic benefits for a 
period of at least 25 years, including:
 
l Creation of up to 150 jobs during a 2-year
 
 
construction period; 
 
l Creation of up to 15 permanent skilled jobs for
 
 
ongoing operation and maintenance of the facility;
 
 
and
 
l Potential business opportunities for local suppliers.
Yr Amgylchedd
Mae camau APL i liniaru effaith y Prosiect ar yr amgylchedd 
lleol yn ystod ei adeiladu, ei weithredu a’i gynnal yn rhan 
sylweddol o’r broses ymgynghori a chynllunio.  
Oherwydd natur a maint y Prosiect, fe’i categoreiddir 
fel datblygiad Asesiad o’r Effaith Amgylcheddol (EIA) ac 
felly mae APL yn cynnal Asesiad o’r Effaith Amgylcheddol, 
sy’n ystyried effeithiau posib’ y Prosiect.  Cyhoeddodd 
APL eu canfyddiadau rhagarweiniol o’r Asesiad o’r Effaith 
Amgylcheddol yn y PEIR.  Mae’r canfyddiadau hyn yn 
dynodi’r effeithiau posib’ allweddol a ganlyn, y byddant i 
gyd yn cael eu lliniaru trwy’r broses ddylunio derfynol:
 
l Trafnidiaeth – cyfyngir ar yr effaith ar y rhwydwaith
 
 
lleol gan draffig adeiladu i’r cyfnodau adeiladu a  
 
 
datgomisiynu; 
 
l Ansawdd yr aer ac allyriadau – yn deillio o
 
 
weithgareddau adeiladu ac yn ystod gweithredu’r 
 
 
gwaith cynhyrchu p  ˆwer;
 
l S ˆwn – cynnydd posib’ mewn s ˆwn cefndirol yn 
 
 
ystod adeiladu a gweithredu o fewn cyffiniau’r 
 
 
safle;  
 
l Efaith weledol ac effeithiau ar sefyllfa’r   
 
 
etifeddiaeth ddiwylliannol - cyflwyno i’r dirwedd  
 
 
leol hyd at bum simnai fydd hyd at 40 metr o  
 
 
uchder; ac
 
l Ecoleg leol – ni ragwelir effeithiau negyddol, 
 
 
dim ond cyfle i wella’r cynefin lleol drwy waith
 
 
plannu ychwanegol.
Buddion i’r Gymuned
Byddai’r Prosiect £200 miliwn hwn yn fuddsoddiad sylweddol 
yn yr ardal a byddai’n cyflawni buddion economaidd 
arwyddocaol am gyfnod o fan leiaf 25 mlynedd, yn cynnwys:
 
l Creu hyd at 150 o swyddi yn ystod cyfnod adeiladu
  
 
o 2 flynedd;
 
l Creu hyd at 15 o swyddi crefftus parhaol ar gyfer y
 
 
gwaith parhaus o weithredu a chynnal a chadw’r  
 
 
cyfleuster; a
 
l Chyfleoedd busnes posib’ i gyflenwyr lleol.
Exhibitions in the local area
Members of the APL team will also be present at four local 
exhibitions from 22 October 2014 to 25 October 2014 to 
allow those who live in the vicinity of the Project, or those 
groups and organisations who may have a view on the 
Project, to find out more information and provide APL with 
any comments they may have. The exhibitions are shown 
below:
 
l Llangyfelach Village Hall, Heol Pentrefelin Road,  
 
 
Llangyfelach, Swansea SA5 7JD
 
 
Wednesday 22 October 2014, 15:00 - 20:00
 
l Felindre Welfare Hall, Felindre, Swansea SA5 7NA
 
 
Thursday 23 October 2014, 14:00 - 19:00
 
l Forge Fach Resource Centre, Hebron Road,  
 
 
Clydach, Swansea, SA6 5EJ
 
 
Friday 24 October 2014, 14:00 - 19:00
 
l Tircoed Village Hall, Y Cyswllt, Tircoed SA4 9QZ 
 
 
Saturday 25 October 2014, 09:00 - 13:00
Get in touch
This consultation will end on 16 November 2014 and APL 
would welcome your views on or before this date.  Please 
include your name and an address.  Responses may be made 
public, subject to data protection laws.
APL would like to invite your views on:
 
l The preliminary findings of the assessment as to 
 
 
the likely significant environmental effects of the 
 
 
Project, as described in the PEIR;
 
l The proposed route option(s) for accessing the  
 
 
Project, as shown in Figure 5.1 in the PEIR 
 
 
non-technical summary; and
 
l The indicative layout of the power generation plant
 
 
within the Project site.
The contact details for APL are as follows:
 
Phone 0131 550 3395
 
Email  info@abergellipower.co.uk
 
Post 
Freepost RTEY-JYYB-ERSR, Abergelli Power Ltd,  
 
 
 
49 York Place, Edinburgh EH1 3JD
Arddangosfeydd yn yr ardal leol
Bydd aelodau tîm APL hefyd yn bresennol mewn pedair 
arddangosfa leol o’r 22ain o Hydref, 2014 tan y 25ain o 
Hydref, 2014 i ganiatáu i’r rheiny sy’n byw yng nghyffiniau’r 
Prosiect, neu’r grwpiau a’r sefydliadau hynny a all fod â 
barn am y Prosiect, ganfod mwy o wybodaeth a darparu 
unrhyw sylwadau a all fod ganddynt i APL. Dangosir yr 
arddangosfeydd isod:
 
l Neuadd Bentref Llangyfelach, Heol Pentrefelin,  
 
 
Llangyfelach, Abertawe SA5 7JD
 
 
Mercher, yr 22ain o Hydref, 2014, 15:00 - 20:00
 
l Neuadd Les Felindre, Felindre, Abertawe SA5 7NA
 
 
Iau, y 23ain o Hydref, 2014, 14:00 - 19:00
 
l Canolfan Adnoddau Forge Fach, Heol Hebron,
 
 
Clydach, Abertawe, SA6 5EJ
 
 
Gwener, y 24ain o Hydref, 2014, 14:00 -19:00
 
l Neuadd Bentref Tircoed, Y Cyswllt, Tircoed SA4 9QZ
 
 
Sadwrn, y 25ain o Hydref, 2014, 09:00 - 13:00
Cysylltwch â Ni
Bydd yr ymgynghoriad hwn yn dirwyn i ben ar yr 16eg o 
Dachwedd, 2014 a byddai APL yn croesawu’ch barn ar neu 
cyn y dyddiad hwn.  A fyddech cystal â chynnwys eich enw 
a chyfeiriad.  Efallai y gwneir ymatebion yn gyhoeddus, yn 
amodol ar gyfreithiau diogelu data.
Hoffai APL wahodd eich barn am:
 
l Ganfyddiadau rhagarweiniol yr asesiad o ran 
 
 
effeithiau amgylcheddol arwyddocaol tebygol y 
 
 
Prosiect, fel a ddisgrifir yn y PEIR;
 
l Opsiwn (opsiynau) y llwybr arfaethedig ar gyfer
 
 
mynediad i’r Prosiect, fel a ddangosir yn Ffigwr 5.1  
 
 
yng nghrynodeb annhechnegol y PEIR; a
 
l Cynllun dangosol y gwaith cynhyrchu p  ˆwer o fewn  
 
 
safle’r Prosiect.
Mae’r manylion cysylltu ar gyfer APL fel a ganlyn:
 
Ffôn 
0131 550 3395
 
E-bost info@abergellipower.co.uk
 
Post 
Freepost RTEY-JYYB-ERSR, Abergelli Power Ltd,  
 
 
 
49 York Place, Edinburgh/ Caeredin EH1 3JD
FREEPOST RTEY-JYYB-ERSR
Abergelli Power Ltd, 
49 York Place, 
Edinburgh, EH1 3JD 
Exhibitions in the local area
Members of the APL team will also be present at four local 
exhibitions from 22 October 2014 to 25 October 2014 to 
allow those who live in the vicinity of the Project, or those 
groups and organisations who may have a view on the 
Project, to find out more information and provide APL with 
any comments they may have. The exhibitions are shown 
below:
 
l Llangyfelach Church Hall, Swansea Road,  
 
 
Llangyfelach, Swansea SA5 7JA
 
 
Wednesday 22 October 2014, 15:00 - 20:00
 
l Felindre Welfare Hall, Felindre, Swansea SA5 7NA
 
 
Thursday 23 October 2014, 14:00 - 19:00
 
l Forge Fach Resource Centre, Hebron Road,  
 
 
Clydach, Swansea, SA6 5EJ
 
 
Friday 24 October 2014, 14:00 - 19:00
 
l Tircoed Village Hall, Y Cyswllt, Tircoed SA4 9QZ 
 
 
Saturday 25 October 2014, 09:00 - 13:00
Get in touch
This consultation will end on 16 November 2014 and APL 
would welcome your views on or before this date.  Please 
include your name and an address.  Responses may be made 
public, subject to data protection laws.
APL would like to invite your views on:
 
l The preliminary findings of the assessment as to 
 
 
the likely significant environmental effects of the 
 
 
Project, as described in the PEIR;
 
l The proposed route option(s) for accessing the  
 
 
Project, as shown in Figure 5.1 in the PEIR 
 
 
non-technical summary; and
 
l The indicative layout of the power generation plant
 
 
within the Project site.
The contact details for APL are as follows:
 
Phone 0131 550 3395
 
Email  info@abergellipower.co.uk
 
Post 
Freepost RTEY-JYYB-ERSR, Abergelli Power Ltd,  
 
 
 
49 York Place, Edinburgh EH1 3JD
Arddangosfeydd yn yr ardal leol
Bydd aelodau tîm APL hefyd yn bresennol mewn pedair 
arddangosfa leol o’r 22ain o Hydref, 2014 tan y 25ain o 
Hydref, 2014 i ganiatáu i’r rheiny sy’n byw yng nghyffiniau’r 
Prosiect, neu’r grwpiau a’r sefydliadau hynny a all fod â 
barn am y Prosiect, ganfod mwy o wybodaeth a darparu 
unrhyw sylwadau a all fod ganddynt i APL. Dangosir yr 
arddangosfeydd isod:
 
l Neuadd Eglwys Llangyfelach, Heol Abertawe,  
 
 
Llangyfelach, Abertawe SA5 7JA
 
 
Mercher, yr 22ain o Hydref, 2014, 15:00 - 20:00
 
l Neuadd Les Felindre, Felindre, Abertawe SA5 7NA
 
 
Iau, y 23ain o Hydref, 2014, 14:00 - 19:00
 
l Canolfan Adnoddau Forge Fach, Heol Hebron,
 
 
Clydach, Abertawe, SA6 5EJ
 
 
Gwener, y 24ain o Hydref, 2014, 14:00 -19:00
 
l Neuadd Bentref Tircoed, Y Cyswllt, Tircoed SA4 9QZ
 
 
Sadwrn, y 25ain o Hydref, 2014, 09:00 - 13:00
Cysylltwch â Ni
Bydd yr ymgynghoriad hwn yn dirwyn i ben ar yr 16eg o 
Dachwedd, 2014 a byddai APL yn croesawu’ch barn ar neu 
cyn y dyddiad hwn.  A fyddech cystal â chynnwys eich enw 
a chyfeiriad.  Efallai y gwneir ymatebion yn gyhoeddus, yn 
amodol ar gyfreithiau diogelu data.
Hoffai APL wahodd eich barn am:
 
l Ganfyddiadau rhagarweiniol yr asesiad o ran 
 
 
effeithiau amgylcheddol arwyddocaol tebygol y 
 
 
Prosiect, fel a ddisgrifir yn y PEIR;
 
l Opsiwn (opsiynau) y llwybr arfaethedig ar gyfer
 
 
mynediad i’r Prosiect, fel a ddangosir yn Ffigwr 5.1  
 
 
yng nghrynodeb annhechnegol y PEIR; a
 
l Cynllun dangosol y gwaith cynhyrchu p  ˆwer o fewn  
 
 
safle’r Prosiect.
Mae’r manylion cysylltu ar gyfer APL fel a ganlyn:
 
Ffôn 
0131 550 3395
 
E-bost info@abergellipower.co.uk
 
Post 
Freepost RTEY-JYYB-ERSR, Abergelli Power Ltd,  
 
 
 
49 York Place, Edinburgh/ Caeredin EH1 3JD
Phone: 0131 550 3395
Email:  info@abergellipower.co.uk
Post: 
Freepost RTEY-JYYB-ERSR, 
 
 
Abergelli Power Ltd, 
 
 
49 York Place, 
 
 
Edinburgh EH1 3JD 
Ffôn: 
0131 550 3395
E-bost:  info@abergellipower.co.uk
Post 
Freepost RTEY-JYYB-ERSR,  
 
 
Abergelli Power Ltd,  
 
 
 
49 York Place,  
 
 
 
 
Edinburgh / Caeredin EH1 3JD
 
 
 
  
Appendix 4.D: Phase 1 S47 Statutory Consultation: 
Advertising 
4.D VIII Letter sent to shops and community venues enclosing poster 
advertising statutory exhibitions (English) 
 
 
49 York Place Edinburgh, EH1 3JD 
Company registration No. 8190497 
 
Address 
 
 
October 2014  
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
 
Re: Statutory consultation – Abergelli Power Limited 
 
I am writing to ask for your help in raising awareness of a series of public exhibitions which 
Abergelli Power will be holding to inform local people about a proposed new power station on 
land adjacent to the National Grid gas compressor station at Abergelli Farm, Felindre, 
Swansea. These exhibitions form part of the statutory public consultation process that we are 
required to carry out in advance of an application for development consent being submitted to 
the Planning Inspectorate. 
 
We have sent more than 13,000 leaflets to households and businesses in the area, but would 
appreciate it if you could display the enclosed poster in a prominent location so that as many 
members of the community as possible are aware of the opportunity to attend an information 
event. 
More detailed information on the project is available on the project website at 
www.abergellipower.co.uk, and if you have any questions about the proposal, please do not 
hesitate to contact us on 0131 550 3395 or email us at info@abergellipower.co.uk. 
 
Please accept my thanks in advance. 
 
Yours sincerely,  
 
 
Norman Campbell 
Project Director 
Abergelli Power Ltd 
 
 
 
 
  
Appendix 4.D: Phase 1 S47 Statutory Consultation: 
Advertising 
4.D IX  Letter sent to shops and community venues enclosing poster 
advertising statutory exhibitions (Welsh) 
 
 
49 York Place Edinburgh, EH1 3JD 
Company registration No. 8190497 
 
Address / Cyfeiriad 
 
 
Hydref 2014  
 
Annwyl Syr / Fadam 
 
Par: Ymgynghoriad statudol – Abergelli Power Cyfyngedig 
 
Rwyf yn ysgrifennu i ofyn am eich cymorth i godi ymwybyddiaeth o gyfres o arddangosfeydd 
cyhoeddus y bydd Abergelli Power yn eu cynnal i hysbysu pobl leol am orsaf bŵer newydd 
arfaethedig ar dir gerllaw gorsaf cywasgu nwy’r Grid Cenedlaethol ar Fferm Abergelli, 
Felindre, Abertawe.  Mae’r arddangosfeydd hyn yn ffurfio rhan o’r broses ymgynghori 
cyhoeddus statudol y mae’n ofynnol inni’i chynnal cyn y cyflwynir cais am ganiatâd datblygu i’r 
Arolygiaeth Gynllunio.   
 
Rydym wedi anfon mwy na 13,000 o daflenni i gartrefi a busnesau yn yr ardal, ond byddem yn 
gwerthfawrogi pe gallech ddangos y poster amgaeedig mewn lleoliad amlwg fel bod cynifer o 
aelodau’r gymuned â phosibl yn ymwybodol o’r cyfle i fynychu digwyddiad gwybodaeth.   
Mae mwy o wybodaeth fanwl am y prosiect ar gael ar wefan y prosiect yn 
www.abergellipower.co.uk, ac os oes gennych unrhyw gwestiynau am y cynigiad, cofiwch 
beidio â phetruso cyn cysylltu â ni ar 0131 550 3395 neu anfonwch e-bost atom yn 
info@abergellipower.co.uk , os gwelwch yn dda. 
 
A fyddech cystal â derbyn fy niolchiadau o flaen llaw. 
 
Yr eiddoch yn gywir  
 
 
Norman Campbell 
Cyfarwyddwr y Prosiect  
Abergelli Power Cyf 
 
 
 
 
  
Appendix 4.D: Phase 1 S47 Statutory Consultation: 
Advertising 
4.D X  Poster advertising statutory exhibitions (English/Welsh) 
Abergelli Power is seeking views on the proposed 
gas-fired electricity generation project and the 
findings of its preliminary environmental studies.
Members of the Abergelli Power team will be 
present at four local exhibitions from 22 October 
2014 to 25 October 2014 to allow those who 
live in the vicinity of the Project to find out more 
information and provide Abergelli Power with any 
comments they may have. 
Exhibitions in the local area
Wednesday 22 October, 15:00-20:00
Llangyfelach Church Hall, 
Swansea Road, Llangyfelach, Swansea SA5 7JA
Thursday 23 October, 14:00-19:00
Felindre Welfare Hall, Felindre, 
Swansea, SA5 7NA
Friday 24 October, 14:00-19:00
Forge Fach Resource Centre, 
Clydach, Swansea, SA6 5EJ
Saturday 25 October, 09:00-13:00
Tircoed Village Hall,
Y Cyswllt, Tircoed SA4 9QZ
For more information please contact Abergelli 
Power:
Web:  
www.abergellipower.co.uk
Phone: 
0131 350 3395 
Post:  
Freepost RTEY-JYYB-ERSR, Abergelli Power Ltd, 
 
49 York Place, Edinburgh EH1 3JD
Email:  
info@abergellipower.co.uk
Mae Abergelli Power yn ymofyn barn am y prosiect 
cynhyrchu trydan arfaethedig sy’n rhedeg ar nwy 
a chanfyddiadau’u hastudiaethau amgylcheddol 
rhagarweiniol.
Bydd aelodau o dîm Abergelli Power yn bresennol 
mewn pedair arddangosfa leol o’r 22ain o Hydref, 
2014 tan y 25ain o Hydref, 2014 i ganiatáu i’r rheiny 
sy’n byw yng nghyffiniau’r Prosiect ganfod mwy o 
wybodaeth a darparu unrhyw sylwadau i Abergelli 
Power y gall fod ganddynt.
Arddangosfeydd yn yr ardal leol
Dydd Mercher, yr 22ain o Hydref, 15:00-20:00
Neuadd Eglwys Llangyfelach,
Heol Abertawe, Llangyfelach, Abertawe SA5 7JA
Dydd Iau, y 23ain o Hydref, 14:00-19:00 
Neuadd Les Felindre, Felindre, 
Abertawe SA5 7NA
Dydd Gwener, y 24ain o Hydref, 14:00-19:00
Canolfan Adnoddau Forge Fach, 
Heol Hebron, Clydach, Abertawe, SA6 5EJ
Dydd Sadwrn, y 25ain o Hydref, 09:00-13:00
Neuadd Bentref Tircoed,
Y Cyswllt, Tircoed SA4 9QZ
Am fwy o wybodaeth, cysylltwch, os gwelwch yn 
dda, ag Abergelli Power:
Gwefan:  www.abergellipower.co.uk
Ffôn: 
0131 350 3395 
Rhadbost: Freepost RTEY-JYYB-ERSR, Abergelli Power Ltd, 
 
49 York Place, Edinburgh EH1 3JD
E-bost: 
info@abergellipower.co.uk
Public Exhibitions
Arddangosfeydd cyhoeddus 
Proposal to build a gas-fired power station at Abergelli Farm
Cynigiad i adeiladu gorsaf b  ˆwer sy’n rhedeg ar nwy ar Fferm Abergelli
 
 
 
  
Appendix 4.D: Phase 1 S47 Statutory Consultation: 
Advertising 
4.D XI  List of shops and community venues to whom letter was sent 
enclosing poster advertising statutory exhibitions 
List of Poster Venues for Statutory Consultation  
 
Venues 
 
Strawberry Place Surgery 
New Cross Surgery 
Cheriton Medical Centre 
Fforestfach Medical Centre 
E.A. White & R. Pratley Dentists 
Woodfield Street Dental Practice 
Pentrepoeth Dental Practice 
Ty-Gwyn Dental Practice 
Morriston Dental Clinic 
Young N.L & Davies D.J Dental Surgery 
Trallwn Dental Surgery 
Cwmtawe Dental Practice Ltd 
The Laurels Dental Practice 
Plough & Harrow Inn 
The Welcome Inn Pub Restaurant 
The Eagle 
Deers Leap 
The Fountain Inn 
The Red Lion Inn 
The Midland Hotel 
The Masons Arms 
The Buck Inn 
The Village Tavern 
The New Inn 
The Millers Arms 
The Globe Inn 
Spar 
Spar Treboeth 
Spa 
Spar Stores 
The Headteacher, Bishop Vaughan Catholic School 
The Headteacher, Brynhyfryd Junior School 
The Headteacher, Burlais Primary School 
The Headteacher, Casllwchwr Primary School 
The Headteacher, Clase Primary School 
The Headteacher, Clydach Primary School 
The Headteacher, Craigcefnparc Primary School 
The Headteacher, Craigfelen Primary School 
The Headteacher, Dylan Thomas Community School 
The Headteacher, Glyncollen Primary School 
The Headteacher, Gors Community Primary 
The Headteacher, Gorseinon Primary School 
The Headteacher, Llangyfelach Primary School 
The Headteacher, Morriston Comprehensive School 
The Headteacher, Morriston Primary School 
The Headteacher, Penllergaer Primary School 
The Headteacher, Pentre'r Graig Primary School 
The Headteacher, Penyrheol Comprehensive School 
The Headteacher, Penyrheol Primary School 
The Headteacher, Pontarddulais Comprehensive School 
The Headteacher, Pontarddulais Primary School 
The Headteacher, Pontlliw Primary School 
The Headteacher, Pontybrenin Primary School 
The Headteacher, St Illtyd's RC Primary School 
The Headteacher, St Joseph's Catholic Primary 
The Headteacher, Talycopa Primary School 
The Headteacher, Ysgol Gymraeg y Cwm 
The Headteacher, Ysgol Gynradd Gymraeg Bryniago 
The Headteacher, Ysgol Gynradd Gymraeg Felindre 
The Headteacher, Ysgol Gynradd Gymraeg Gellionnen 
The Headteacher, Ysgol Gynradd Gymraeg Pontybrenin 
Capel y Nant Methodist Church 
Diocese of Menevia, St Benedict 
Diocese of Menevia, The Sacred Heart 
Parish of Clydach, St. Mary’s 
Bethel Chapel, Llangyfelach 
Bont Elim Community Church 
Riverside Christian Fellowship 
St. Davids Church, Penllergaer, 
St. Telio Church, Morriston 
The Secretary 
Tabernacle Presbyterian Church 
PLJ Manselton (Mace) 
Mayhill General Store 
Bev's Shop 
CWM Stores 
The Co-operative Food 
Premier Stores 
Sunnybank Mini Market 
Premier Stores 
Siop-y-Pentref 
Llangyfelach Stores 
Woodford Stores 
Premier Stores 
Londis 
Clair's Convenience Store 
Night & Day 
 
 
 
 
  
Appendix 4.D: Phase 1 S47 Statutory Consultation: 
Advertising 
4.D XII E-mail sent to CCS providing invitation to statutory exhibition 
preview (10th October 2014) 
1
Emma Knapp
From:
Dermot Scanlon
Sent:
10 October 2014 13:17
To:
Ferguson, Andrew
Cc:
Adam Heffill (AHeffill@stagenergy.com); Reece Emmitt (Reece@wepr.co.uk)
Subject:
Proposed Abergelli Power Project, Abergelli Farm, Felindre, Swansea SA5 7NN - 
Formal Consultation
Attachments:
APL - public exhibition preview_invitees_ISSUED.pdf
Andrew – further to my voicemail message this morning re the above, you are probably aware that we are starting our 
formal consultation on 13 October 2014 with our public consultation events scheduled for 22-25 October at four 
venues in the vicinity of the project site. 
 
In anticipation of the public exhibitions, we would like to invite you and colleagues to a preview of the exhibition prior 
to the event being opened to the general public.  This preview session will be between 2 and 3 pm on Wednesday 22 
October 2014 at Llangyfelach Church Hall, Swansea Road, Llangyfelach, Swansea SA5 7JA.   We will also be 
extending this invitation to the council members and other local politicians set out in the attached list.  In order to 
gauge numbers, we would be grateful if you would advise how many colleagues are intending to come along. 
 
As a number of the project team will be in the Swansea area between 22 and 25 October, we thought it might be 
useful for us all to meet and provide you with an update on the project and our programme for the next tranche of 
work.  As we have public exhibition sessions in the afternoon, we would be grateful if we could meet in the morning, 
ideally, late morning of Thursday 23 October, say 11am?  If you are available and wish to meet, we can provide an 
outline agenda. 
 
We trust that these arrangements are acceptable and look forward to meeting you later this month. 
 
With best wishes 
 
Dermot Scanlon 
 
For and on behalf of Peter Brett Associates LLP 
16 Brewhouse Yard, 
Clerkenwell,  
London, EC1V 4LJ 
t     0207 566 8600 
m  07876 576287 
 
e dscanlon@peterbrett.com 
w www.peterbrett.com  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Appendix 4.D: Phase 1 S47 Statutory Consultation: 
Advertising 
4.D XIII Photograph of poster displayed in Clydach advertising statutory 
exhibitions 
 
 
 
  
Appendix 4.D: Phase 1 S47 Statutory Consultation: 
Advertising 
4.D XIV Advert publicising statutory exhibitions – South Wales Evening Post 
article (14th October 2014) 
 
 
 
  
Appendix 4.D: Phase 1 S47 Statutory Consultation: 
Advertising 
4.D XV Advert publicising statutory exhibitions – South Wales Evening Post 
article (21st October 2014) 
