Progress, impacts and 
outlook for transforming 
Britain’s energy system
Energising 
Britain
2
Progress, impacts and 
outlook for transforming 
Britain’s energy system
November 2018
Authors:
Dr Iain Staffell, Dr Malte Jansen: Imperial College London
Adam Chase, Chester Lewis, Eloise Cotton: E4tech
Please refer to this report as:
I. Staffell, M. Jansen, A. Chase, C. Lewis and E. Cotton, 2018.  
Energising Britain: Progress, impacts and outlook for 
transforming Britain’s energy system.  
Drax Group: Selby.
Energising 
Britain
3
Preface
This report was commissioned 
by Drax Group and delivered 
independently by academics from 
Imperial College London (facilitated 
by the College’s consultancy 
company, Imperial Consultants), 
and consultants from E4tech.
Drax Group commissioned the 
authors to conduct new research 
into how transformations in Britain’s 
energy system are likely to impact 
the country’s economic, societal 
and environmental outcomes. 
The aim of this research is to 
provide insight into the changes 
that are occurring and those that 
are needed to ensure that energy 
system transformation unlocks 
opportunities for businesses, 
government and households 
in a just and equitable way.
This report is the independent 
opinion of the authors. It focuses 
on Great Britain rather than 
the United Kingdom as lack 
of data prevented Northern 
Ireland from being included.
Cover illustration: viewcreative.co.uk
Drax Group
Drax Group plc plays a vital role in 
helping change the way energy is 
generated, supplied and used for a 
better future. Its 2,300-strong staff 
operate across three principal areas of 
activity – electricity generation, electricity 
sales to business customers and 
compressed wood pellet production.
Imperial Consultants
Imperial Consultants provide access to over 
4,000 research-active expert academics 
and Imperial College London’s state 
of the art facilities to deliver innovative 
solutions to meet the business needs of 
industry, government and the third sector.
E4tech
E4tech is an international strategic 
consultancy focused on sustainable energy.
E4tech helps clarify and simplify complex 
and uncertain situations, to achieve 
solutions that are technologically, 
economically and environmentally sound
4
Will Gardiner 
Chief Executive, Drax Group
Will Gardiner
Foreword
Our world is changing fast.
 
New technologies are transforming 
the way we live and work. They 
are changing businesses and 
communities and creating huge 
opportunities to improve our 
quality of life, and Britain’s ability 
to compete in a global economy.
This shift is being enabled by a revolution 
taking place across our energy system – 
ultimately to a zero carbon, low cost system 
where technology and data will enable 
businesses and homeowners to create 
energy as well as use it, and give them 
more control over the energy they use.
These changes are creating significant 
benefits. But as in every transition there is a 
risk that those most able to take advantage 
of new technologies will enjoy their 
benefits first while others get left behind.
A failure to ensure the transition is enjoyed 
across Britain will also undermine much 
needed progress to decarbonise our 
economy and tackle climate change.
Drax, is at the heart of the energy transition. 
We see these changes taking place 
every day – across our businesses, and 
among the customers and communities 
we serve. What’s less clear is how 
Britain is faring through this change. 
Now, for the first time, this report gives us 
some answers. Researchers from Imperial 
College London and E4tech have looked 
right across our economy. Using 20 different 
metrics they have assessed progress in 
critical sectors including power, transport 
and industry. Crucially they’ve also broken 
down their findings to a regional level.
The results make stark reading. While real 
progress has been made in some sectors 
to decarbonise, others lag behind.
While most nations and regions have 
taken steps to create the future energy 
system we need, the picture is not uniform. 
Most worrying is clear evidence that once 
again a divide is opening between those 
parts of the country where people are 
better placed to take advantage of new 
technologies – and those who are not.
The conclusion is clear: Failure to address 
these energy divides will leave some 
communities falling behind. It will restrict 
our businesses ability to compete in a 
fierce global economy. And our efforts to 
tackle climate change will be hindered.
To respond energy companies, businesses, 
communities and governments must work 
together. Drax is committed to play our part.
I’m proud of the contribution we have 
already made. We have transformed the 
UK’s largest coal-fired power station to 
become the biggest decarbonisation 
project in Europe and the country’s biggest 
renewable power generator. Today, we 
maintain significant generation capacity  
aim to bolster our ability to provide flexible, 
low-carbon generation further − supporting 
the increase in solar and wind power across 
Britain’s energy system. We’re trialling 
innovative Bioenergy Carbon Capture Use 
and Storage technology, which is the first of 
its kind in Europe and has the potential to 
deliver negative emissions. And through our 
retail businesses we are helping thousands 
of business switch to use 100% renewable 
energy, and use it more efficiently. 
But, this report shows us there is much more 
to do. 
We will continue to invest in and develop 
the new technologies which will finish 
the job of taking Drax off coal, ensure we 
become zero carbon and play a bigger 
part in decarbonising the wider economy.
And, we will continue to help our customers 
reduce their own carbon emissions, save 
money and create new revenues from 
energy production which will boost their 
ability to compete in their own markets.
Our role is clear. Drax is enabling a zero 
carbon, lower cost future for all.
This report reinforces the challenges ahead, 
but also the opportunities to meet them. I 
commit Drax to playing our part to do so.
5
Executive Summary
Major pressures are shifting the 
UK’s patterns of employment, 
leisure, travel and industry, with 
consequences for our energy 
needs. At the same time, the UK 
has made strong commitments to 
reduce greenhouse gas emissions 
related to energy. Many towns 
and cities struggle with chronic 
air pollution from cars, vans and 
lorries. Businesses and households 
face rising energy bills, putting 
a squeeze on both economic 
competitiveness and quality of life.
Why this 
report matters
Electrification is essential, touching all 
elements of Britain’s changing economy and 
energy system. Renewable electricity has 
radically transformed the power sector, and 
electric vehicles are poised to revolutionise 
transport. Electricity could lower the cost 
and pollution from home heating and the 
daily commute, as well as the way in which 
large buildings and factories operate. 
Alongside electricity, other ingredients of the 
future energy system will include a growing 
role for data, minimising energy use when 
power is in short supply and maximising 
use when and where it is plentiful, making 
intelligent use of low carbon fuels and heat, 
and potentially capturing greenhouse gases.  
Together these changes are known as the 
‘energy revolution’. There is strong global 
evidence of the imperative for this significant 
and – increasingly – urgent change.
Work towards the energy revolution is 
underway in UK, but so far much of the 
action has been behind the scenes. The 
sweeping changes to how we generate 
electricity have not changed what happens 
when you turn on the lights at home, but the 
next steps will impact on everyday life for 
many. The emergence of electric vehicles, 
intelligent home energy management and 
zero-carbon buildings are all necessary to 
stay competitive and honour our climate 
change and related policy targets. These 
will have profound implications on the cost 
of energy and how people receive energy 
services, so it is imperative to outline these 
changes for stakeholders of all types.
The UK’s energy transition is well described 
by national and international expert 
bodies, but mainly looking at individual 
components of the system in terms of 
technologies, costs and benefits. These 
studies treat countries and continents as 
a whole, potentially missing the important 
socio-economic and environmental 
differences that exist within countries.
This assessment is the first 
to examine Britain’s energy 
transition at the regional level, 
showing where each aspect 
of the energy system currently 
stands and where it must go 
to avoid being left behind.
This assessment is the first to examine 
Britain’s energy transition at the regional 
level,a showing where each aspect of the 
energy system currently stands and where it 
must go to avoid being left behind. It looks 
more broadly than raw emissions reductions 
to consider the many infrastructural enablers 
for revolutionising the energy system.
Crucially, it explores what these changes 
will mean for individual households, 
businesses and society as a whole, and 
exposes the important regional differences 
that are developing within Britain. Without 
awareness of these regional disparities and 
their potential impacts, Britain risks creating 
a two-tier energy system, where some get 
ahead with the fuels and technologies of 
the future, while others are left behind with 
the higher costs, environmental and health 
problems that come from burning legacy 
fossil fuels - leaving millions of families 
and businesses less equipped to enjoy 
cheaper bills and better outcomes.
Britain risks creating a two-tier 
energy system, where some 
get ahead with the fuels and 
technologies of the future,  
while others are left behind  
with the higher costs, 
environmental and health 
problems that come from  
burning legacy fossil fuels - 
leaving millions of families  
and businesses less equipped 
to enjoy cheaper bills and 
better outcomes.
a  Northern Ireland’s electricity system is largely 
separate from that of Great Britain, so this 
study focuses on GB rather than the UK
6
Britain’s energy transition progress
This report analyses Britain’s complex and highly interdependent energy system by
considering power generation and then energy use in transport, buildings and industry.
Within these four sectors, 20 measures 
have been devised to represent Britain’s
progress towards having an energy system 
that’s fit for the future, and can serve
households and businesses with clean, 
secure and low-cost energy. Aggregate
progress is summarised below with a 
‘barometer’ for three of the four sectors:b
Britain’s greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 
have fallen since 1990, but the decline is not 
evenly distributed across energy sectors. 
The outstanding success has been in the 
power sector, chiefly through closing coal-
fired generation and the rise of renewables, 
also benefiting air quality. Further progress 
is expected, raising the importance of 
a smart and flexible power system that 
features demand side response, storage, 
interconnections and smart meters. Most 
of these areas are behind target, requiring 
immediate efforts to bring them in step with 
growing renewables.
The rapid clean-up of the power sector 
has fed through into electricity-consuming 
areas such as industry, where economic 
growth has decoupled from GHG emissions.  
Britain’s industry is currently on track to 
reach climate targets. Absolute electricity 
use in industry has stayed constant while 
fossil fuel combustion has declined, as 
processes have been electrified and 
efficiency increases have been made. 
Further electrification will be harder, so 
GHG reductions may need to come through 
technologies such as hydrogen and carbon 
capture use and storage (CCUS). 
All of this is made harder still by the need 
for most industries to remain internationally 
competitive whilst avoiding the ‘offshoring’ 
of emissions and jobs to other countries.
In contrast with the power sector, the 
limited pace of transformation in transport 
and domestic heating means that there is 
much more to do. Of particular concern is 
air quality in Britain’s cities and the slow 
progress being made on diesel pollution, 
but CO2 emissions from transport are 
also on the rise, especially from goods 
vehicles. The stage is set for a radical 
shift in transportation thanks to recharging 
infrastructure growth and EV sales picking 
up; over a quarter of new vehicle sales 
are expected to be ‘plug-ins’ by 2030 
and forecasts are frequently being revised 
upwards. Electric buses are finding a 
place in cities where pollution is a pressing 
problem, but electric goods vehicles are 
some way behind. Hydrogen vehicles and 
infrastructure remain in their infancy in UK, 
though these provide a zero emission option 
for goods vehicles, where batteries appear 
less suitable. Furthermore, hydrogen may offer 
a means to electrify railway lines where the 
cost of overhead power lines is prohibitive.
The efficiency of Britain’s building stock is a 
critical issue, with 13% of homes suffering 
from fuel poverty, and non-domestic 
buildings generally worse than households. 
UK buildings remain largely heated by fossil 
fuels, so only a few parts of the UK are well-
placed to benefit from the decarbonisation 
of power through electric heating. The 
outlook for heating is unclear, with heat 
pumps, electric heating and hydrogen each 
having their proponents, but no overall 
direction. Regardless of the pathway choice 
(which is needed urgently) building efficiency 
will be a core feature. Thankfully, appliances 
and lighting in buildings have seen improved 
efficiency and thus reducing pressure on 
energy bills and indirect GHG emissions 
from the power sector.
b  Note that data are too scarce to support 
an equivalent summary for industry
Not on track
Within 90% of target
Ahead of target
HOUSING
Fuel
poverty
Heat
pumps
Non-res
efficiency
Non-res
emissions
Household
efficiency
Household
emissions
Electric
heating
POWER:
Smart
meters
Electricity
storage
Inter-
connection
Transmission
Demand side
response
Carbon
intensity
TRANSPORT
GHG
emissions
Hydogen
stations
Electric
HGVs
Rail
Plug-in
cars
EV
chargers
Electric
buses
7
Executive Summary
Progress in transforming Britain’s energy system is uneven and 
this report reveals marked differences between the regions.
Cost reductions in key technologies 
such as renewable generators and 
batteries show that the costs of 
transforming the energy system 
could be modest. Ultimately, 
moving to modern clean energy 
could result in the lowest 
bills, although any increased 
capital costs to consumers and 
businesses should be considered 
in the context of affordability.
Regional disparities
Implications for individuals, 
businesses and society
Generally, more affluent regions have made 
significantly greater progress. The north 
of England is falling well short, with only
London and Scotland coming close 
to being on track to meet their overall 
targets. This first step towards exposing 
the differences between the regions paints 
an instructive picture of Britain’s unequal 
progress, and it should be remembered 
that differences within individual 
regions will be similarly important.
Renewable power generation is distributed 
according to natural resources, so England 
has much less low-carbon power per 
person than Scotland and Wales. However,
Scotland and Wales also have some 
of the lowest transmission capacities 
to neighbouring regions, holding back 
further development of renewables. In 
contrast with the general picture for 
most metrics, Wales and the North East 
have the highest penetration of smart 
meters in Britain, London the lowest.
Homes and companies in London and the 
South East spend less on energy relative to 
income. Those in Wales and the North East 
spend the most, so any changes to energy 
costs will make the greatest difference to the 
welfare and profits of homes and businesses 
in these areas. In transport, the total cost 
of owning electric vehicles is on track to 
reach parity with conventional vehicles. 
However, the higher upfront purchase price 
of EVs poses a greater affordability barrier 
in less affluent regions. Scotland and
Wales have lowest EV affordability, the 
West Midlands and London the highest. If 
marked differences in uptake arise from this, 
Britain’s cities could see rising inequality 
due to the health effects of air pollution.
In industry, further electrification may 
be difficult without impacting on energy 
costs, unless measures are taken to level 
the playing field. The changing power 
mix is shifting employment patterns, with 
job losses in fossil fuels offset by gains 
in new industries, often in poorer remote 
areas. Electrification and automation often 
go hand in hand, and the South East, 
Midlands and north of England face the 
highest risk of job losses from automation.
In a fast-changing transport picture, the West Midlands 
and the East currently have the highest uptake of 
passenger electric vehicles, London has the most 
electric buses, while the South East, northern regions of 
England and Scotland have the highest share of ultra-
low emission HGVs. On an absolute basis, however, 
the south of England is leading in the deployment 
of plug-in electric vehicles, which is correlated to 
higher household incomes in these regions.
Energy efficiency in buildings is 
neglected across Britain, and 
much lower than is justifiable. 
However, it is generally better in 
the south of England and Scotland 
and worse in the Midlands, 
northern England and Wales. 
The North East has done the 
most to fix low-efficiency houses, 
but still has high fuel poverty 
rates due to income levels and 
remaining poor quality buildings.
POWER, TRANSPORT & BUILDINGS
London
Scotland
East
South West
South East
West Midlands
Wales
Yorkshire
East Midlands
North West
North East
Not on
track
Within 90%
of target
Ahead 
of target
8
Overall conclusions
In this first assessment of Britain’s 
energy transition, there is much  
to be positive about, but the 
observation that “the future is 
already here – it’s just not very 
evenly distributed” applies.
The rapid decarbonisation of electricity 
is a feather in the UK’s cap, providing a 
means to transform electricity-intensive 
sectors. Buildings and to some extent 
industry are already benefiting, whilst 
transport is potentially well-positioned.
There are tough challenges ahead 
though, since areas such as heavy 
industry, freight transport and some 
parts of heating do not immediately 
lend themselves to electrification, so 
other options need to be considered.
The uneven distribution of change also 
applies regionally and socially. A looming 
concern is the effect of disparities in 
the energy transition, with some at 
risk of being left behind economically 
due to unaffordable changes. 
As in other walks of life 
London stands apart, whilst 
less affluent regions in the 
north and elsewhere are falling 
behind on many measures.
As in other walks of life London stands 
apart, whilst less affluent regions in the 
north and elsewhere are falling behind 
on many measures. If the sole aim of the 
transition were to decarbonise energy, it 
might be rational to focus on wealthier 
metropolitan areas like London ahead of 
the rest of the country. However, if this 
begins to affect our way of life through the 
cost of energy, quality of services and air 
pollution then such a strategy risks creating 
a twotrack energy system that worsens 
regional inequality. To be effective, the UK’s 
energy transformation needs be a force 
for good across society and across the 
UK, not just where it is most convenient.
To be effective, the UK’s energy 
transformation needs be a 
force for good across society 
and across the UK, not just 
where it is most convenient..
9
10
Table of contents
Preface 
 
4
Foreword 
 
5
Executive Summary 
6
 
Why this report matters  
6
 
Britain’s energy transition progress  
7
 
Regional disparities  
8
 
Implications for individuals, businesses and society  
8
 
Overall conclusions 
9
Table of contents 
11
Section 1: Introduction  
12
 
1.1 Context and motivation  
12
 
1.2 Scope and methods  
13
 
 
1.2.1 About this study  
13
 
 
1.2.2 Technological and geographical scope  
13
 
 
1.2.3 Underlying methodology  
13
 
1.3 Background  
14
 
 
1.3.1 The regions of Britain  
14
 
 
1.3.2 What is electrification?  
15
 
 
1.3.3 The sectors in context  
15
 
1.4 References  
16
Section 2: The power system  
17
 
2.1 Current status and future targets for the power sector  
18
 
 
2.1.1 Carbon intensity  
20
 
 
2.1.2 Interconnection  
21
 
 
2.1.3 Storage  
22
 
 
2.1.4 Network and transmission capacity expansion  
23
 
 
2.1.5 Smart meter roll-out  
24
 
 
2.1.6 Demand side response  
25
 
2.2 Implications of a transitioning power sector  
26
 
2.3 References  
27
Section 3: Energy in transport  
28
 
3.1 Current status and future targets in transport  
29
 
 
3.1.1 GHG emissions from transport  
30
 
 
3.1.2 Plug-in vehicles in the car fleet  
31
 
 
3.1.3 EV charging points  
32
 
 
3.1.4 Hydrogen refuelling stations  
33
 
 
3.1.5 Electric and hydrogen bus penetration  
34
 
 
3.1.6 Ultra-low emissions heavy goods vehicles  
35
 
 
3.1.7 Rail emissions  
36
 
3.2 Implications of a transitioning transport sector  
37
 
 
3.2.1 Total cost of car ownership passenger vehicles  
37
 
 
3.2.2 Availability of electric vehicle charging points  
39
 
 
3.2.3 Railway investment  
40
 
3.3 References  
41
Section 4: Energy in buildings  
42
 
4.1 Overall buildings current status and future targets  
43
 
4.2 Current status and future targets for domestic buildings  44
 
 
4.2.1 Domestic GHG emissions  
44
 
 
4.2.2 Energy efficiency  
45
 
 
4.2.3 Fuel Poverty  
46
 
 
4.2.4 Electrification of heating  
47
 
 
4.2.5 Heat pump deployment  
48
 
4.3 Implications for household consumers  
49
 
 
4.3.1 Household energy costs  
49
 
 
4.3.2 Changes in household energy costs  
50
 
4.4 Current status and future targets for non-domestic buildings 51
 
 
4.4.1 Non-domestic GHG emissions  
51
 
 
4.4.2 Energy usage in non-domestic buildings  
51
 
 
4.4.3 Non-domestic energy efficiency  
52
 
4.5 Implications for business costs and competitiveness  
53
 
4.6 References  
54
Section 5: Energy in industry  
 55
 
5.1 Overview  
55
 
5.2 Current status  
55
 
 
5.2.1 Industrial sector emissions and energy use  
56
 
 
5.2.2 The top 10 consuming industries  
57
 
 
5.2.3 Industry by region  
57
 
5.3 Implications of a transitioning industrial sector  
58
 
 
5.3.1  Changes in energy cost from increased  
 
electrification of industry  
58
 
 
5.3.2 Automation  
59
 
5.4 References  
60
Section 6: Regional implications  
 61
 
6.1 London  
62
 
6.2 Scotland  
63
 
6.3 East of England  
64
 
6.4 South West  
64
 
6.5 South East  
65
 
6.6 West Midlands  
65
 
6.7 Wales   
66
 
6.8 East Midlands  
66
 
6.9 Yorkshire and the Humber  
67
 
6.10 North West  
67
 
6.11 North East  
68
Section 7: Conclusions  
 69
 
7.1 Power   
70
 
7.2 Transport  
70
 
7.3 Buildings  
70
 
7.4 Industry  
71
 
7.5 Concluding remarks  
71
Appendices   
 72
 
Appendix 1: Modelling vehicle TCO 
72
 
Appendix 2: Detailed analysis of vehicle TCO  
73
 
Appendix 3: Modelling cost of heating electrification  
74
 
Appendix References  
75
11
Section 1:  
Introduction
The energy transition is being driven top down by climate and 
environmental policy and bottom-up by evolving consumer preferences 
and technological innovation. Britain has made excellent progress 
in transforming its power sector, at a world-leading pace, which has 
allowed decarbonisation that is largely invisible to consumers – no 
change in lifestyle, added daily considerations and little impact on bills.
1.1 Context and motivation
There is a growing recognition that 
change must now sweep through 
other sectors; we must transform the 
way energy is provided in homes, 
businesses, transport and industry. There 
is a huge opportunity for newly-cleaned 
electricity to transform these sectors.
The key gaps are:
•  Understanding how the country is 
progressing more broadly towards a 
transformed energy system. Carbon 
emissions are well understood, but are 
the wider changes to electrification 
and its enabling infrastructure 
also making headway?
•  Understanding the differences within 
Britain – national studies mask regional 
differences – are we at risk of creating 
winners and losers in the energy transition?
This change could have profound social 
and economic implications for the country.
If some sectors or regions forge ahead 
and others are left behind, this could 
create a two-speed economy and lead to 
substantial differences in the cost of energy.
Some may be forced to use legacy 
infrastructure and support it together with a 
dwindling consumer base, whereas others 
may take advantage of affordable lowcarbon 
solutions independent from these costs.
12
1.2.1 About this study
This study sets out to explore the 
current status of the power system 
and how it needs to change to deal 
with electrification demands and 
the need for low-carbon power. 
The current status, targets and 
regional disparities in the energy 
transition in end-use sectors are 
mapped. Finally, the implications 
that can be drawn from these 
results for technologies and socio-
economic factors are evaluated, 
focussing on affordability, 
competitiveness and jobs.
This work was commissioned by Drax 
to assess the state of energy system 
transformation across all sectors. It is 
delivered independently by academics at
Imperial College Londona and 
sustainable energy consultants E4tech. 
This report is the start of an ongoing 
discussion titled Energising Britain, 
where future outlook reports will address 
aspects of the energy transition.
1.2.2 Technological and 
geographical scope
The Energising Britain work 
examines Britain’s energy system 
in the context of the 2008 Climate 
Change Act and the COP21 
Paris Climate Agreement. To 
achieve this, not only power 
but also the transport, buildings 
and industrial energy sectors 
need to be decarbonised.
Given the ongoing decarbonisation of the 
electricity system and the continuously 
falling costs of renewables, this work 
investigates how all energy sectors can be 
decarbonised through electrification. This 
entails the use of lowcarbon generation 
technologies, hydrogen and carbon capture 
use and storage (CCUS) where suitable.
To understand the regional differences 
in how Britain’s energy system is being 
transformed, this report considers the 11 
unitary regions of Great Britain (Scotland,
Wales, and 9 in England). Northern 
Ireland could not be included due to the 
availability of data, and because of the 
different electricity markets operating 
on the islands of Ireland and Great 
Britain. Northern Ireland accounts for 
approximately 3% of the population 
and energy consumption of the UK.
1.2.3 Underlying methodology
The main principle for our 
assessment is to derive metrics 
that identify the state of transition 
of the energy system.
These metrics are presented as a 
‘barometer’ which sets out three points:
1.  the end-point of the transformation for 
the target year in the scenario (e.g. total 
number of EV charging points in 2030),
2.  the current state of transformation 
(e.g. number of charging 
points operational), and
3.  an indication of where we would  
have to be to meet the target  
(e.g. number of charging points).
Justifiable targets for each metric 
are derived which show the state of 
transformation and where we should be if 
we are to fulfil our legal obligations. The 
end-point targets allow us to locate our 
position in the energy transition in line with 
carbon budgets and climate targets.
National and regional level data have 
been gathered for each metric in order 
to explore regional disparities and their 
implications for people. This translates 
energy systems findings into social and 
economic implications. The analysis is 
based on public data, primarily government 
sources, providing transparency, accuracy 
and independence. Especially in the 
case of target definitions for individual 
metrics, the study relies on energy system 
scenarios, published by National Grid, 
HM government including BEIS and the 
Committee on Climate Change (CCC).
1.2 Scope and methods
13
 
Energising Britain 
 
11 
 
public data, primarily government sources, providing transparency, accuracy and 
independence. Especially in the case of target definitions for individual metrics, the 
study relies on energy system scenarios, published by National Grid, BEIS, HM 
government and the Committee on Climate Change (CCC). 
1.3 Background 
1.3.1 The regions of Britain 
Figure 1.1 presents some underlying indicators for the 11 unitary regions of Britain 
(and Northern Ireland) for context.  
 
 
 
1.3.1 The regions of Britain
Figure 1.1 presents some underlying indicators for the 11 unitary regions of Britain (and Northern Ireland) for context.
Figure 1.1: Key socio-economic indicators for the UK’s 12 unitary regions.
There are already many differences in the 
regions’ starting points: London stands out 
as a purely urban region with high incomes 
and population density; the Midlands and 
Wales are the most industrialised; wealth  
is divided between north and south.
As this study investigates the socio-
economic impact of the energy system 
transition, it must be noted that the unitary 
regions have different starting points.
Some regions may have an advantage, for 
example in terms of income or commercial 
and industrial economic activity and are 
therefore better positioned to make certain 
changes. The overarching question is 
whether the energy transition changes  
this picture for better or for worse.
1.3 Background
14
1.3.2 What is electrification?
The general discussion on 
electrification of the energy 
sector is often focussed on the 
electrification of road and rail 
transport. This ignores the fact that 
many other areas of the economy 
and society in Britain are being 
electrified. Therefore, this study 
provides a more holistic approach 
at the decarbonisation of all energy 
sector (power, building, transport 
and industry) and answers the 
question on what the electrification 
of Britain’s economy will look like 
and the technologies involved.
On the supply side, i.e. the power system, 
low-carbon technologies to mitigate 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions are in 
focus as well as technologies that allow for 
the integration of these low carbon sources 
(e.g. energy storage). The study identifies 
a list of technologies which are considered 
relevant when electrifying the energy system. 
As these technologies mature, the picture 
will change and this list will have to be 
adjusted. The technologies that are currently 
relevant in the power sector are wind 
and solar, nuclear, batteries and storage, 
gas-fired generators with carbon capture 
use and storage (CCUS), grid expansion 
and construction of interconnectors, smart 
meters and demand side response (DSR).
On the building side, besides increasing 
energy efficiency, we are looking at 
electrifying heating with heat pumps and 
electric heaters. The transport sector of 
the energy system includes the state and 
target for key transport technologies, 
such as electric vehicles (cars, buses 
and HGVs), charging points, hydrogen 
refuelling station and electrification of rail.
Lastly, the current status of industry and 
implications from trends in the industrial 
sector are discussed. It is noteworthy that 
this sector has the least data coverage. 
As the energy system transition continues, 
measuring the progress in industry will 
be required to track the overall progress 
towards climate targets and avoid 
unintended socio-economic implications 
of a transitioning energy system. The 
heterogeneity of industrial processes 
requires an approach which presents 
key metrics, such as energy intensity as 
a function of Gross Value Added (GVA), 
GHG emissions or energy use. The social-
economic implications of the energy 
system transition to further electrification 
and/or automation are presented.
1.3.3 The sectors in context
This study investigates the power, 
transport, buildings and industrial 
sectors and the extent of their 
transformation. All sectors need to 
decarbonise to ensure the overall 
national target is met, meaning 
that many sectors will need to 
undergo further transformations.
Sectors, such as agriculture, remain 
outside the scope of this study, but do, 
however, contribute to net GHG emissions. 
Electricity supply is being treated as its 
own sector, meaning the related GHG 
emissions from electricity production are 
attributed to the sector. GHG emissions 
only include direct emissions for the end-
use sectors, unless otherwise specified, 
therefore excluding the indirect emissions 
associated with electricity use.
The power sector has seen large reductions 
in GHG emissions (Section 2.1), causing 
the energy supply sector to heavily 
decrease its share of total GHG emissions 
over the last 5 years (Figure 1.2). In 2017 
over two thirds of electricity supply was 
consumed by buildings, just under a 
third in industry and the remaining small 
percentage in transport (Figure 1.3).
The transport sector’s relative share of 
total GHG emissions has been increasing 
since 1990 (Section 3.1) and for the 
first time in 2016 the share of transport 
emissions surpassed the share of emissions 
originating from the energy supply sector. In 
absolute terms, however, total GB transport 
emissions have decreased compared to 
1990 and 2008. This is likely linked to the 
global recession, increased fuel efficiency, 
and increased use of renewable energy in 
transport. Only 2% of the energy used in 
transport comes from electricity, and this 
has remained fairly constant since at least 
2008 (Figure 1.4). The sector is still heavily 
reliant on fossil fuels, though there have 
been recent increases in the use of biofuels 
and electricity, especially in road transport.
Emissions from buildings are a combination 
of the Household and Business & Public
Sectors in Figure 1.2. In 2017, GHG 
emissions from buildings accounted for 
19% of total GHG emissions (Section 
4.1)2. The share of direct emissions from 
all subsectors of buildings have remained 
relatively constant since 1990, with the 
residential sub-sector showing a small 
increase. In absolute terms, all of these 
subsectors, thus the buildings sector 
as a whole, have significantly reduced 
their direct emissions during this period. 
Electricity use in buildings has remained 
relatively constant since 2008, suggesting 
that direct emission decreases are linked 
to other factors rather than increased 
electrification rates (e.g. energy efficiency).
Figure 1.2: Greenhouse Gas Emissions by sector, 1990–2017 – direct emissions accounted from source1
 
14 
 
Introduction 
 
The transport sector’s relative share of total GHG emissions has been increasing 
since 1990 (Section 3.1) and for the first time in 2016 the share of transport 
emissions surpassed the share of emissions originating from the energy supply 
sector. In absolute terms, however, total GB transport emissions have decreased 
compared to 1990 and 2008. This is likely linked to the global recession, increased 
fuel efficiency, and increased use of renewable energy in transport. Only 2% of the 
energy used in transport comes from electricity, and this has remained fairly 
constant since at least 2008 (Figure 1.4). The sector is still heavily reliant on fossil-
fuels, though there have been recent increases in the use of biofuels and electricity, 
especially in road transport.  
 
Figure 1.2: Greenhouse Gas Emissions by sector, 1990–2017 – direct emissions accounted from source1. 
Emissions from buildings are a combination of the Household and Business & Public 
Sectors in Figure 1.2. In 2017, GHG emissions from buildings accounted for 19% of 
total GHG emissions (Section 4.1)2. The share of direct emissions from all sub-
sectors of buildings have remained relatively constant since 1990, with the 
residential sub-sector showing a small increase. In absolute terms, all of these sub-
sectors, thus the buildings sector as a whole, have significantly reduced their direct 
emissions during this period. Electricity use in buildings has remained relatively 
constant since 2008, suggesting that direct emission decreases are linked to other 
factors rather than increased electrification rates (e.g. energy efficiency).  
Figure 1.3: The share of electricity in total energy 
consumption by end-use sectors in 2017.3
 
Figure 1.3: The share of electricity  in total energy 
consumption by end-use sectors in 2017.3 
Emissio
compo
industr
busine
2017, t
of tota
from 
detail 
use 
remain
usage 
 
15
Emissions from the industrial sector are composed of emissions related to industrial 
processes, as well as some business and power sector emissions. In 2017, the 
industrial sector made up 23% of total GHG emissions. The emissions from industry 
are discussed in more detail in Section 5.2. Further, electricity use in industry 
has consistently remained around a third of total energy usage (Figure 1.4).
As mentioned above, electricity usage in the sectors investigated for this report has 
remained fairly constant since 2008. Increasing electricity use can reduce the direct 
emissions of an end-use sector, especially if the electricity is replacing a fossil fuel.
However, depending on the carbon intensity of the power sector, total 
(direct and indirect) greenhouse gas emissions could increase.
Figure 1.4: The use of electricity in the sector as a percentage of total energy consumption4
 
Energising Britain 
 
15 
 
 
Figure 1.3: The share of electricity  in total energy 
consumption by end-use sectors in 2017.3 
of total GHG emissions. The emissions 
from industry are discussed in more 
detail in Section 5.2. Further, electricity 
use 
in 
industry 
has 
consistently 
remained around a third of total energy 
usage (Figure 1.4).  
 
 
Figure 1.4: The use of electricity in the sector as a percentage of total energy consumption4. 
As mentioned above, electricity usage in the sectors investigated for this report has 
remained fairly constant since 2008. Increasing electricity use can reduce the direct 
emissions of an end-use sector, especially if the electricity is replacing a fossil fuel.  
However, depending on the carbon intensity of the power sector, total (direct and 
indirect) greenhouse gas emissions could increase. 
1.4 References 
 
1  BEIS (2018) Final UK greenhouse gas emissions national statistics 1990-2016 
2  CCC (2018) 2018 Progress Report to Parliament 
3  BEIS (2018) Energy Trends, March 2018 
4  BEIS (2017) Energy Consumption in UK 
1 BEIS (2018) Final UK greenhouse gas emissions national statistics 1990-2016
2 CCC (2018) 2018 Progress Report to Parliament
3 BEIS (2018) Energy Trends, March 2018
4 BEIS (2017) Energy Consumption in UK
1.4 References
16
Section 2:  
The power 
system
The UK’s carbon budgets require major decarbonisation of energy supply. By 
2050, virtually all electricity must come from clean sources. Large scale use of 
intermittent renewables will require extensive flexibility options for balancing.
Many options exist: interconnection, 
storage, demand side response and flexible 
generation; so consumers should not see 
any difference in terms of supply quality.
The current pathway relies heavily on 
wind and solar power, driven by the large 
cost reductions they have experienced. 
If these intermittent renewables continue 
to dominate future electricity supply, the 
location of power generation will change 
and the economic activity that comes with 
it – favouring rural and coastal areas.
The roll-out of smart meters is taking place 
at very different speeds across Britain. 
Wales is leading whereas London is lagging. 
The structure of the housing sector is a 
strong influence: lower home ownership 
places some regions at a disadvantage.
Demand response from commercial 
and industrial sites is already active, 
but the large domestic resource (e.g. 
smart appliances such as fridges and 
washing machines) cannot be tapped 
without rollout of smart meters.
Energy bills may be higher than today 
regardless of power sector transformation, 
due to rising fossil fuel system service 
costs. However, large cost reductions in 
key technologies such as renewables, 
batteries and hydrogen suggest that 
regions which can take advantage of 
these (through electric vehicles and heat 
pumps) could see the cheapest energy. 
Renewables have led to job creation, 
especially in poorer regions. 
Scottish renewables have created 
a strong new industrial sector. 
Job losses in the legacy fossil-fuel 
sectors are offset by growth in renewable 
industries. The dispersed nature 
of renewables means that the jobs 
created in construction, operation and 
maintenance are in more remote areas, 
giving a welcome employment boost.
2 Section 2: The power system 
 
Figure 2.1: Progress towards transforming Britain’s power system, highlighting the areas that are under- and over-
performing relative to near-term targets for decarbonisation.  Each area is reviewed later in this section. 
The UK’s carbon budgets require major 
decarbonisation of energy supply. In the near 
future, virtually all electricity must come from 
clean sources. Large scale use of intermittent 
renewables will require extensive flexibility 
options for balancing. 
Many options exist: interconnection, storage, 
demand side response and flexible generation; 
so consumers should not see any difference in 
terms of supply quality.  
The current pathway relies heavily on wind and 
Demand 
response 
from 
commercial 
and 
industrial sites is already active, but the large 
domestic resource (e.g. smart appliances such 
as fridges and washing machines) cannot be 
tapped without rollout of smart meters. 
Energy bills may be higher than today 
regardless of power sector transformation, due 
to rising fossil fuel and carbon prices. However, 
large cost reductions in key technologies such 
as renewables, batteries and hydrogen suggest 
that regions which can take advantage of these 
(th
h
l
t i
hi l
d h
t
)
Figure 2.1: Progress towards transforming Britain’s power system, highlighting the areas that are under- and overperforming relative to 
near-term targets for decarbonisation. Each area is reviewed later in this section
17
The following section will give a 
detailed analysis on the current 
status of the power sector, and 
how it is progressing against 
its targets. Overall the sector is 
on track to achieve three out of 
the six targets examined for this 
research (with three being well 
on track) (Figure 2.1). Further, it 
is falling behind on three other 
targets. The effects of progress 
towards each target are not directly 
comparable, in that achieving some 
targets will have greater effects 
on the energy transformation 
than others. Therefore, this 
barometer (Figure 2.1) gives 
an indicative understanding on 
how the sector is progressing.
The island location of GB creates a 
unique challenge for the power system 
when compared to its continental 
European counterparts. This shows in the 
increased balancing needs to maintain 
system stability. The need for flexibility is 
disproportionally larger when compared 
to highly interconnected systems.
 
The GB power system 
has proven that electricity 
generation can change rapidly 
in a short time span.
The GB power system has demonstrated 
that carbon reduction by overhauling the 
generation mix is possible in a very short 
time. The introduction of a carbon floor price 
and clean air legislation has reduced the use 
of coal power plants by five-sixths in the 
last 5 years. At the same time, significant 
amounts of wind, solar and bioenergy 
have entered the power system and gas 
generation has seen a renaissance. Nuclear 
power has maintained its share of the mix in 
the past decade. However, based on current 
projections, it is likely that replacements will 
not outweigh closures in the coming decade. 
Figure 2.2 shows the generation share and 
total generation of all (major) generation 
types for the last 9 years. The analysis is 
conducted at GB-level as Northern Ireland 
is part of the power system of Ireland.
These changes have led to a redistribution 
of generators around Britain. The closure 
of coal power plants nearer to the load 
centres in England and Scotland on the one 
side has been offset by the construction 
of renewables in Scotland, the South West 
of England and Wales. The total installed 
capacity of renewables is highest is
Scotland and Wales, with a relatively 
homogenous distribution of renewable 
capacity through England.
The West Midlands, the North East and 
London stand out as having little generation 
capacity, due to population density and 
resource availability. A similar picture 
is visible when looking at the installed 
capacity of renewables per capita where 
Scotland and Wales are leading and 
equal in value. Both have about twice 
the capacity installed as the rest of 
Britain, which raises a challenge for the 
grid to cope with the redirected flow of 
electricity and may require investments.
Figure 2.3 shows distribution of power 
stations by generator type. The last 
remaining coal stations are located in 
Yorkshire, the Midlands, the North West and
Wales. These stations are due to be closed 
no later than 2025,2 apart from Drax 
power station in Yorkshire, where four of 
its six units have been converted to use 
biomass instead of coal. The energy system 
transition will alter the location of power 
stations and a redistribution of economic 
activity and employment in the country. This 
raises the question how to best facilitate 
the energy system transition, not only in 
terms of energy system issues but also 
economic development and employment. 
Retaining large parts of the workforce 
through conversion or the investment in 
renewables may help to ease the transition.
Additional discussion on the 
topic can be found in 2.2.
 
Transforming the energy  
system affects the locations of 
generators and so redistributes 
economic and employment 
across the regions.
Previous closures of coal stations in the 
West Midlands have left the region almost 
entirely reliant on electricity imports 
from other regions, due to the lack of 
local renewable generation capacity. 
Conversely, Scotland invested heavily 
in onshore wind before its thermal fleet 
were retired. This makes Scotland a 
substantial exporter of electricity. Wales 
hosts large hydro power stations (legacy 
renewables), masking the relatively slow 
progress of its energy transition.
2.1 Current status and future 
targets for the power sector
a  A minimum price paid for the emission of CO2 which 
consists of the EU-ETS (EU Emissions Trading Scheme) 
price component and an adjusted carbon tax to guarantee 
that the carbon price does not fall below 18 £/tCO2.
 
18 
 
The Power System 
 
 
 
Figure 2.2: Development of the generation mix and total power generation between 2009 and 2017.1 
These changes have led to a redistribution of generators around Britain. The closure 
of coal power plants nearer to the load centres in England and Scotland on the one 
side has been offset by the construction of renewables in Scotland, the South West 
of England and Wales. The total installed capacity of renewables is highest is 
Scotland and Wales, with a relatively homogenous distribution of renewable 
capacity through England.  
The West Midlands, the North East and London stand out as having little capacity, 
due to population density and resource availability. A similar picture is visible when 
looking at the installed capacity of renewables per capita where Scotland and Wales 
are leading and equal in value. Both have about twice the capacity installed as the 
rest of Britain, which raises a challenge for the grid to cope with the redirected flow 
of electricity and may require investments. 
Figure 2.3 shows distribution of power stations by generator type. The last 
remaining coal stations are located in Yorkshire, the Midlands, the North West and 
Wales. These stations are due to be closed no later than 2025,2 apart from Drax 
power station in Yorkshire, where four of its six units have been converted to use 
biomass instead of coal. The energy system transition will alter the location of 
power stations and a redistribution of economic activity and employment in the 
country. This raises the question how to best facilitate the energy system 
transition, not only in terms of energy system issues but also economic 
development and employment. Retaining large parts of the workforce through 
conversion or the investment in renewables may help to ease the transition. 
Additional discussion on the topic can be found in Section 0. 
Iain Staffell� 
Comment [
Figure 2.2: Development of the generation mix and total power generation between 2009 and 2017. 1
18
The installed base of renewable energy 
sources (RES) shows a concentration of 
biomass generation in Yorkshire and the 
North East. Solar power is predominant 
in the South West, South East and East 
Anglia. Onshore wind is mostly deployed 
in Scotland whereas offshore wind on 
the other hand is more evenly allocated 
around the coast of Britain and closer 
to the load centres, mainly connected 
to England. Generally speaking, wind 
and solar follow the resource availability 
within a tight framework of planning 
permission. Due to the topography, 
hydropower and pumped-hydro storage 
can only be found in Wales and Scotland 
and not in the rest of the country.
Non-renewable thermal 
generation (coal, gas and 
nuclear) is more concentrated 
than renewable generation. 
Gas stations are more widely 
distributed throughout the 
country and located closer 
to the load centres. Coal is 
now restricted to central
England and Wales. Nuclear 
power stations are all located 
on the coasts due to the volume 
of cooling water intake and 
security considerations.3
Interestingly, the West Midlands 
and Greater London no longer 
have any large scale thermal 
generation. The transition 
from coal to gas fired power 
stations sees a shift away from 
typically slow-ramping base 
load power plants to more 
flexible (combined cycle) gas 
turbines, fewer operating hours 
for the residual generators and 
variable output over time.
Figure 2.3: Location of power generation in Great Britain. Energy to waste plants are grouped with biomass.
Figure 2.4: Regional distribution of power stations in Great Britain, showing renewable (top row) and conventional (bottom row).  
Hydro plants are not shown, these are all concentrated in Wales and Scotland
19
The reduction of coal has led to a strongly 
decreasing carbon intensity of the produced 
electricity between 2009 and 2018. This is 
due to the lower carbon content of natural 
gas when compared to hard coal.
 
The carbon intensity of grid 
electricity has more than halved 
within five years after the 
introduction of the carbon floor 
price and emissions Directives. 
Further decarbonisation however 
will prove more challenging.
The carbon intensity of grid electricity peaked 
in 2012 at 508 g/kWh and has since more than 
halved to 237 g/kWh. This change came at a 
remarkable speed after the introduction of a 
carbon-floor price of 18 £/tCO2 transformed 
the economics of coal power stations and 
enabled their rapid phase-out.
Further increases in the CO2 price are likely 
to be necessary to build momentum on 
further decarbonisation of power generation.5 
Despite this, the shift towards low carbon 
technologies is likely to be more challenging 
and not as rapid as the phaseout of coal. 
Further decarbonisation will require building 
new generators rather than simply redeploying 
existing ones.6 A recent uptake of the 
European carbon price (EU-ETS) to over  
€20 (£18) per tCO2 should provide a stable 
environment outside the country-specific 
carbon floor price policy instruments.
Additional policy support is required to keep 
the rate of decarbonisation at the same 
pace. For example, the application of carbon 
capture, utilisation and storage (CCUS) 
technology to capture CO2 emissions from 
gas-fired and biomass power plantsb is still in 
its infancy. The need for decarbonisation 
using CCUS has seen a renewed support 
commitment in the Clean Growth Strategy7 
by the Government as well as from private 
entities, albeit timings are tight to deliver at 
scale in 2030s for large CO2 reductions.
Despite the rapid success of decarbonisation, 
additional effort is necessary as further 
decarbonisation will be more challenging4,c. 
The rapid progress in the last five years 
makes up for the previous decade of zero 
progress on decarbonising electricity. Britain 
is therefore just about on track – but emissions 
must continue to fall at 7.5% per year.
There are many technologies for achieving 
this, wind, solar, biomass, new nuclear 
build, and power stations equipped 
with carbon capture use and storage 
(CCUS). To keep further decarbonisation 
affordable it is necessary to assess the 
suitability of all low carbon generators, 
based on their levelised cost of energyd 
as well as the system integration cost, 
including those technologies that do not 
receive policy support at the moment.
2.1.1 Carbon intensity
 
22 
 
The Power System 
 
 
2.1.1 Carbon intensity 
 
 
Figure 2.5: Barometer for grid electricity carbon 
intensity.4 
Above: national progress; 
Right: map of the amount of installed low-carbon power 
generating capacity per person. 
 
The reduction of coal has led to a strongly 
decreasing 
carbon 
intensity 
of 
the 
produced electricity between 2009 and 
2018. This is due to the lower carbon 
content of natural gas when compared to 
hard coal.  
The carbon intensity of grid 
electricity has more than halved 
within five years after the 
introduction of the carbon floor 
price. Further decarbonisation 
however will prove more 
challenging. 
The carbon intensity of grid electricity 
peaked in 2012 at 508 g/kWh and has 
since more than halved to 237 g/kWh. 
This change came at a remarkable speed 
after the introduction of a carbon-floor 
price of 18 £/tCO2 transformed the 
economics of coal power stations and 
enabled their rapid phase-out. 
 
 
Energising Britain 
 
23 
 
Further increases in the CO2 price are likely to be necessary to build momentum on 
further decarbonisation of power generation.5 Despite this, the shift towards low 
carbon technologies is likely to be more challenging and not as rapid as the phase-
out of coal. Further decarbonisation will require building new generators rather than 
simply redeploying existing ones.6 A recent uptake of the European carbon price 
(EU-ETS) to over €20 (£18) per tCO2 should provide a stable environment outside 
the country-specific carbon floor price policy instruments. 
Additional policy support is required to keep the rate of decarbonisation at the same 
pace. For example, the application of carbon capture, utilisation and storage 
(CCUS) technology to capture CO2 emissions from gas-fired and biomass power 
plantsb is still in its infancy and it is uncertain whether the technology will be 
delivering the necessary CO2 intensity reductions for the power sector. The need for 
decarbonisation using CCUS has seen a renewed support commitment in the Clean 
Growth Strategy7 by the Government as well as from private entities, albeit timings 
are tight to deliver at scale in 2030s for large CO2 reductions. 
 
 
Figure 2.6: Development of carbon intensity of the electricity grid in Great Britain.1,8 
Despite the rapid success of decarbonisation, additional effort is necessary as 
further decarbonisation will be more challenging4,c. The rapid progress in the last 
five years makes up for the previous decade of zero progress on decarbonising 
electricity. Britain is therefore just about on track – but emissions must continue to 
fall at 7.5% per year. 
 
b Coal generation will be phased out by 2025. 
c For the estimation of today’s target a linear interpolation between the start date in 2012 and the end date in 2020 
is assumed as this would best utilise assets and staff for the roll-out. 
Figure 2.5: Barometer for grid electricity carbon intensity. 4
Above: national progress; Top Right: map of the amount of installed low-carbon power generating capacity per person.
Figure 2.6: Development of carbon intensity of the electricity grid in Great Britain. 1,8
b Coal generation will be phased out by 2025.
c  For the estimation of today’s target a linear interpolation 
between the start date in 2012 and the end date in 2020  
is assumed as this would best utilise assets and staff for 
the roll-out.
d  Cost of electricity generation at the source, disregarding 
all other costs.
20
Britain is an island system with limited 
connections to neighbouring countries, and 
so traditionally struggles with security of 
supply issues relative to continental
Europe. Virtually all of Britain’s balancing 
capabilities must be sourced from within the 
system. This has negative impacts on 
balancing costs, as large capital-intensive 
plants have to remain in standby mode.
 
Interconnector capacity is 
set to more than quadruple 
in the near future.
The availability of interconnectors allows 
sharing of some of the balancing tasks with 
neighbouring energy systems. Technically 
speaking this means that power plants outside 
the British system can provide energy to the 
GB system and vice versa to account for 
outages or the intermittency of renewables. 
Conversely they can increase strain on the 
system during stress events which affect the 
two connected markets.
The relatively low interconnection capacity 
to Britain is due to the high cost of building 
under-sea cables and the fact 
interconnectors cannot be viewed as firm 
capacity or provide the same system 
services as synchronous power stations.  
The drive for better asset utilisation and 
renewables integration has led to the 
construction of interconnectors. Further 
expansion is under construction or in final 
planning stages, all of which are due to be 
operational by 2022. The increase from 
currently 4.2 GW (2018) to 17.8 GW (2022)  
is more than quadrupling the capacity in a 
short time period. One note of caution is 
necessary for the projects in planning, as the 
UK may leave the European Single Energy 
Market which could change the economics 
of interconnector projects, potentially 
leading to the cancellation of the projects[i].
If realised, these interconnectors provide a 
large but unreliable increase in system 
flexibility and allow RES balancing with 
continental Europe and Scandinavia. Further 
expansion beyond 2030 is envisaged, 
however these are competing interconnector 
projects and are not all likely be realised. 
Having a wide-ranging portfolio of 
interconnectors to different countries may 
benefit the energy system, as they can be 
used to balance renewable energy sources 
across large distances and may reduce 
costs for consumers through the benefits  
of trade[ii]. An unbalanced portfolio  
exposes both energy systems to each 
other’s specific risks and does not allow  
for economic optimisation.
The barometer indicates that interconnection 
capacity is falling behind the target for 2030. 
However, considering the planned upgrades 
in the next 5 years, the development of 
interconnectors is within the target corridor 
despite the barometer’s indication.  
A regional barometer is not presented  
as interconnection is a country-to- 
country issue.
2.1.2 Interconnection
 
Energising Britain 
 
25 
 
 
2.1.2 Interconnection 
 
 
 
26 
 
The Power System 
 
Figure 2.7: Barometer for interconnector capacity.4 
Top: national progress. 
Right: Past, present and future development of interconnectors.9 
Britain is an island system with limited 
connections to neighbouring countries, and 
so traditionally struggles with security of 
supply 
issues 
relative 
to 
continental 
Europe. Virtually all of Britain’s balancing 
capabilities must be sourced from within 
the system. This has negative impacts on 
balancing costs, as large capital-intensive 
plants have to remain in standby mode. 
Interconnector capacity is set to 
more than quadruple in the near 
future, easing the challenges of 
integrating renewables.  
The availability of interconnectors allows 
sharing of some of the balancing tasks 
with neighbouring energy systems, thus 
optimising 
the 
allocation 
accuracy 
of 
assets. Technically speaking this means 
that power plants outside the British 
system can provide energy to the GB 
system and vice versa to account for 
outages 
or 
the 
intermittency 
of 
renewables. 
 
The low interconnection capacity to Britain is due to the high cost of building under-
sea cables. The drive for better asset utilisation and renewables integration has led 
to the construction of interconnectors. Further expansion is under construction or in 
final planning stages, all of which are due to be operational by 2022. The increase 
from currently 4.2 GW (2018) to 17.8 GW (2022) is more than quadrupling the 
capacity in a short time period. One note of caution is necessary for the projects in 
planning, as the UK may leave the European Single Energy Market which could 
change the economics of interconnector projects, potentially leading to the 
cancellation of the projects10. 
Figure 2.7: Barometer for interconnector capacity. 4
Above: national progress; Below Right: Past, present and future development of interconnectors.9
21
In total 3.7 GW of storage is active in the
GB power system, of which 2.9 GW 
is pumped hydro, 0.8 GW is batteries 
(primarily lithium-ion), 0.4 GW is mechanical 
(flywheels) and the rest is thermal storage 
(liquid air and hot water storage).
 
The stock of storage is  
dominated by pumped-hydro 
storage and new batteries 
added in the last year.
Batteries and other modern storage 
technologies are still dependent on specific 
market rules for economic viability. With the 
recent increase in RES penetration and the 
goal to reduce thermal ‘must-run’ capacity 
for the delivery of ancillary services, National 
Grid has encouraged demand-side response 
(DSR) and storage to participate in the 
ancillary services marketse but still finds 
itself overwhelmingly dependent on  
thermal generation.
The GB power system has less storage 
than most neighbouring countries due 
to geographical constraints. Until the 
mid-2010s the only economical storage 
technology was pumped hydro which 
requires mountains, and thus is concentrated 
in Wales and Scotland. These still make 
up the largest share of storage capacity. 
The recent and rapid cost reduction in 
other storage technologies12 means that 
new systems are becoming more widely 
deployed, with small scale, rapid dispatch 
lithium-ion batteries contributing the 
largest share of the new market entrants.
Storage has so far been applied in ancillary 
services markets, which are high value, but low 
volume markets. In particular, battery storage 
can be used, making it economically viable in 
these markets but only when generous derating 
factors are applied. This helps to accelerate 
the cost decline of grid-scale storage until 
eventually it can serve high-volume but 
lower-yield markets economically. The GB 
capacity marketg, has in some cases helped 
to foster the uptake of storage. However, the 
dependency on specific market rules creates 
uncertainties for long-time investments14.
The barometer indicates that storage 
deployment is close to being on track.
However, one needs to consider the reliance 
of storage on markets with specific rules. 
If these were to change, the deployment 
of storage might take a downturn.
Additionally, a supportive environment must 
be maintained into the future as batteries 
are short-lived relative to pumped hydro 
(e.g. 10-20 rather than 60 plus year lifetimes) 
and so must be repowered at end of life.
2.1.3 Storage
 
28 
 
The Power System 
 
 
2.1.3 Storage 
 
 
 
Figure 2.8: Barometer for storage deployment.
Top: national progress; Above: regional progress; Top Right: map of location and type of storage.
e  Ancillary services are procured by National Grid to maintain 
the system stability and they include e.g. frequency 
support, voltage support, black start amongst others.
f   Additional storage locations have been added to the initial 
source to provide an up-to-date picture.
g  Market for the long-term procurement of generation 
capacity.
Figure 2.9: Installed storage capacity in the GB power system.13,f
 
Figure 2.9: Installed storage capacity in the GB power system.13,f 
Storage has so far been applied in ancillary services markets, which are high value, 
but low volume markets. In particular, battery storage can be fully used, making it 
economically viable in these markets. This helps to accelerate the cost decline of 
grid-scale storage until eventually it can serve high-volume but lower-yield markets 
economically. The GB capacity marketg, has in some cases helped to foster the 
uptake of storage. However, the dependency on specific market rules creates 
uncertainties for long-time investments14. 
The barometer indicates that storage deployment is close to being on track. 
However, one needs to consider the reliance of storage on markets with specific 
rules. If these were to change, the deployment of storage might take a downturn. 
Additionally, a supportive environment must be maintained into the future as 
batteries are short-lived relative to pumped hydro (e.g. 10-20 rather than 40-60 
year lifetimes) and so must be repowered at end of life. 
22
Grid expansion is necessary to transport 
electricity between the locations of 
generation and consumption. Generator 
locations are changing due to the shift from 
fossil to low-carbon generators, but this 
also changes the generation pattern away 
from a more constant use of transmission 
lines towards more intermittent utilisation.
 
Relocation of generators  
and the shift towards  
renewables requires  
a doubling of grid 
transmission capacity.
There are significant risks to the expansion 
of the electrical network. It may face the risk 
of opposition from local residents and 
tackling such challenges is a major societal 
task if we are to proceed with a low-carbon 
transition in the power sector.
Assessing the transport capacity at the 
borders of the unitary regions allows potential 
shortfalls in transmission capacity to be 
localised. Scotland is currently facing the 
greatest shortfall and portraying it as one 
unitary region might not accurately cover 
the full grid expansion needs. Assuming 
that grid congestion does not occur within 
the region is essentially oversimplifying the 
issues in some cases, as Scotland does 
not have limitless internal transmission 
capacity. Grid congestion already occurs 
in Scotland, especially as wind power 
plants are typically located in the more 
rural areas, some of which were already 
troubled by weak grid connections.
The barometer shows good progress if we 
assume the already well-developed grid as 
the current state. If this is used as a starting 
point the actual progress of expansion is very 
little. Transmission capacity at the borders of 
the unitary regions will have to double up until 
2050. The transmission capacity within the 
regions is not assessed by the data sources.
Regionally the grid connection reinforcement 
needs differ largely. The East of England 
faces a five-fold increase in grid capacity 
which is needed for the transport of electricity 
from offshore wind farms to the load centres 
in the region. The grid in the North East will 
need to triple its grid transmission capacity 
by 2040 to cope with the increasing amount 
of Scottish wind power as well as the 
possible connection of offshore wind farms 
in the near future. Yorkshire will have to 
double its capacity for the same reasons.
The East Midlands has the second highest 
transmission capacity and therefore does 
not require the rapid growth of other 
regions further north. Large parts of today’s 
grid congestion in Great Britain happens 
in Scotland, with grid reinforcement 
requirements. Additionally, potential future 
nuclear power plants could increase the 
grid congestion already happening in 
Scotland. The siting of wind turbines at 
the best wind resource locations does 
not coincide with pre-existing location 
of the grid which lead to frequent grid 
congestion due to under-sizing of the grid.
There are significant risks to the expansion 
of the electrical network. For example, it 
may face the risk of opposition from local 
residents and tackling such challenges is a 
major societal task if we are to proceed with 
a low-carbon transition in the power sector.
2.1.4 Network and transmission capacity expansion
 
Energising Britain 
 
31 
 
 
2.1.4 Network and transmission capacity expansion 
 
 
 
Figure 2.10: Barometer for transmission capacity. 9,h
Top: national progress; Above: regional progress; Top Right: map of current status.
h  For individual regions the required transmission capacity is 
higher in the transition phase up to 2040, which is used in 
this case.
23
The availability of smart metering is seen 
as one of the key enablers of a smarter and 
more balanced grid through the uptake of 
small-scale demand side response (DSR). 
A country-wide roll-out of smart meters is 
envisaged by 2020. This target is conditional, 
in that every property needs to be offered 
a smart meter by 2020 but the owners are 
under no legal requirements to accept.
 
The smart-meter rollout  
faces several challenges and 
significant regional variation.
Varying success can be observed in the 
rollout, with Wales leading and London 
lagging.
Possible reasons for this may be 
socioeconomic effects (e.g. tenancy 
structure) and technical challenges  
(e.g. access to meter).
The target for a complete roll-out by 2020 
will not be met without rapid acceleration. 
Only a third of households currently have 
a smart meter. The current pace would not 
see roll-out finishing until towards 2040. 
This would prevent the uptake of time of 
usage tariffs with higher temporal resolution 
(e.g 30 minute settlement periods) and 
domestic DSR services in the near future. 
This could have knock-on effects such 
as increased costs for the consumers.
Various challenges are faced by the roll-
out. Some are related to use of different 
types of smart meters, with some of them 
“smarter” than others, boasting additional 
functionality between the three types of 
smart meter – AMR, SMETS1 and SMETS2. 
The Automated Meter Reading (AMR) is a 
legacy infrastructure for larger electricity 
customers. SMETS1 is the first generation 
smart meter with reduced functionality 
(e.g. not working after supplier change 
without intervention) SMETS2 is the latest 
generation, with connection to the smart 
meter gateway. Currently, there are only a 
few use-cases for smart meters and a lack 
of offerings from the electricity suppliers. The 
initial vision that smart meters will enable 
DSR services to the grid has yet to fully 
materialise at the domestic consumer level.
Non-domestic smart meters account for 
about 1% of the total numbers17. However, 
the installed capacity behind those meters 
is much higher and likely to be more readily 
available to provide DSR services.
2.1.5 Smart meter roll-out
 
34 
 
The Power System 
 
 
2.1.5 Smart meter roll-out 
 
 
 
Figure 2.11: Barometer for smart meter roll-out.15,16,i 
Top: national progress; Above: regional progress;  
Right: map of current share of houses with smart meters. 
The availability of smart metering is seen as 
one of the key enablers of a smarter and 
more balanced grid through the uptake of 
small-scale demand side response (DSR). A 
country-wide roll-out of smart meters is 
envisaged 
by 
2020. 
This 
target 
is 
conditional, in that every property needs to 
be offered a smart meter by 2020 but the 
owners are under no legal requirements to 
accept. 
The smart-meter rollout faces several 
challenges and the target will not be 
met at the current rate of deployment.  
Varying success can be observed in the roll-
out, with Wales leading and London lagging. 
 
 
i For the estimation of today’s target a linear interpolation 
between the start date in 2012 and the end date in 2020 is 
assumed as this would best utilise assets and staff for the roll-out. 
Figure 2.11: Barometer for smart meter roll-out.15,16,i
Top: national progress; Above: regional progress; Top Right: map of current share of houses with smart meters.
i  For the estimation of today’s target a linear interpolation 
between the start date in 2012 and the end date in 2020 is 
assumed as this would best utilise assets and staff for the 
roll-out.
24
Demand side response (DSR) could 
enable buildings to intelligently reduce 
their demand at peak times, mitigating 
the need for additional power generation 
capacity. DSR services at the domestic 
level are mostly limited to legacy Economy 
7 (and 10). The electric loads of a typical 
household in Britain with gas supply 
for heating usually do not warrant the 
aggregation in DSR schemes; the loads are 
just too small to be economically viable.
 
The smart meter roll-out  
has yet to produce demand 
side response capacity from 
households. Industrial and 
corporate consumers are 
actively providing these 
services already though.
Some energy suppliers now offer ‘smart 
tariffs’ for households with electric 
vehicles and heat pumps. These first 
market entrants, however, do not make 
full use of the smart meter infrastructure. 
DSR activity that couples these together 
may at first be limited to smart charging, 
rather than responding in real time.
Further cost reductions in ICTk infrastructure 
and integration of car-based and personal 
device communication plus aggregation 
means that we are likely to see domestic 
DSR developing. The ongoing digitalisation 
could see the use of artificial intelligence (AI) 
to predict users’ behaviour and adjust the 
energy consumption without a noticeable 
interruption for the consumer. The use of 
smart meters may reduce the costs for 
the consumers when DSR services are 
provided. However, this will be further 
down the transition pathway as currently 
economic benefits are negligible19.
On the industry and commercial side, DSR 
aggregators are active in the market.
The high cost of communication infrastructure 
still makes them reliant on the high value 
and low volume opportunities, such as 
frequency response markets. Currently 
about 2300 MW of DSR is reported to 
be participating in various markets. This 
constitutes an over-achievement with 
regards to the targets laid out by National
Grid. However, there is uncertainty whether 
the reported capacity is correct; the 
same physical units can be accredited 
in different ancillary services markets 
and may be double-counted. If this is 
the case, it would prove that actors are 
optimising their participation in the market 
and reacting to price signal as intended.
Ultimately, the DSR potential with industrial 
and corporate consumers is high, but 
it takes a compelling business case to 
exploit it. As DSR must compete with 
other flexibility options, saturation may be 
reached at lower single-digit GW levels due 
to diminishing returns in the market and 
increasing effort of connecting consumers 
at decreasing unit sizes. For price-sensitive 
industrial and commercial DSR providers, 
this saturation will happen where the cost 
of connection and potential gains offset the 
risk of e.g. lost production in the factory. 
Increasing awareness of the benefits of DSR, 
decreasing connection costs and higher 
intermittency will change this equilibrium 
and add additional capacity to the system.
2.1.6 Demand side response
 
Energising Britain 
 
35 
 
the installed capacity behind those meters is much higher and likely to be more 
readily available to provide DSR services. 
2.1.6 Demand side response 
 
Figure 2.12: Barometer for smart meter roll out.4,18,j 
Demand side response (DSR) could enable buildings to intelligently reduce their 
demand at peak times, mitigating the need for additional power generation 
capacity. DSR services at the domestic level are mostly limited to legacy Economy 7 
 
j Note that no location-specific data is available, so a regional barometer cannot be produced. 
Figure 2.12: Barometer for demand side response.4, 20, 21 
 k Information and communications technologies.
25
Overall employment in the 
conventional energy sector has 
been steady at around 175,000 
since the mid-1990s, after a 
large decline as the phase-out 
of coal mining cost more than 
300,000 jobs. Around 80,000 
jobs are directly associated 
with nonrenewable electricity 
generation in recent years.
Investment in renewable energy sources 
creates more jobs per MWh produced than 
the thermal generation industry (including 
nuclear)21. An annual share of 75% of the 
electricity in Britain was generated by 
the non-renewable generators in 2017, 
maintaining around 80,000 jobs. The 
share of electricity from renewables (wind, 
solar, bioenergy, hydropower was about 
25% in 2017. This economic activity 
supports about additional 34,000 jobs. 
The expansion of renewables therefore has 
a small net positive employment effect. 
The effect is substantially larger when 
hydropower is removed. Additionally, the 
employment growth is typically located in 
more rural areas, following the changes 
in location of electricity generation.
Figure 2.14 shows how the employment in 
the renewables sector is distributed across 
Great Britain. The employment numbers 
for all of England are split using investment 
announcements by companies22,l. Wales 
and Scotland employment numbers are 
taken from the ONS survey directly20. 
Most notably, Yorkshire is hosting a large 
number of jobs, which can be explained 
with the presence of Drax power station as 
well as with being a major hub for offshore 
wind power. For example, the Siemens-
Gamesa blade manufacturing for large 
offshore wind turbines is located in Hull.
2.2 Implications of a transitioning power sector
 l  This data set was gathered back in 2012. However, it is still 
believed to be the most accurate proxy for job locations.
 
Energising Britain 
 
39 
 
2.2 Implications of a transitioning power sector 
Overall employment in the conventional energy sector has been steady at around 
175,000 since the mid-1990s, after a large decline as the phase-out of coal mining 
cost more than 300,000 jobs. Around 80,000 jobs are directly associated with non-
renewable electricity generation in recent years. 
 
Figure 2.13: Employment in the non-renewables energy industry. 20 
Investment in renewable energy sources creates more jobs per MWh produced than 
the thermal generation industry (including nuclear)21. An annual share of 75% of 
the electricity in Britain was generated by the non-renewable generators in 2017, 
maintaining around 80,000 jobs. The share of electricity from renewables (wind, 
solar, solar, bioenergy, hydropower was about 25% in 2017. This economic activity 
supports about additional 34,000 jobs. The expansion of renewables therefore has a 
small net positive employment effect. The effect is substantially larger when 
hydropower is removed. Additionally, the employment growth is typically located in 
more rural areas, following the changes in location of electricity generation. 
Figure 2.14 shows how the employment in the renewables sector is distributed 
across Great Britain. The employment numbers for all of England are split using 
investment announcements by companies22,l. Wales and Scotland employment 
numbers are taken from the ONS survey directly20. Most notably, Yorkshire is 
hosting a large number of jobs, which can be explained with the presence of Drax 
 
l This data set was gathered back in 2012. However, it is still believed to be the most accurate proxy for job 
locations. 
Figure 2.13: Employment in the non-renewables energy industry. 20
Figure 2.14: Employees in renewable electricity generation 
per region. Data split within England based on DECC
data.20,23
26
1 Electric Insights (2018): www.electricinsights.co.uk
2  BEIS (2018): Implementing the end of unabated coal by 2025. 
assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/
uploads/attachment_data/file/672137/Government_Response_
to_unabated_coal_consultation_and_statement_of_policy.pdf
3  Grimston, M. et al (2014): The siting of UK nuclear reactors.  
Journal of Radiological Protection. 34 R1.  
http://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/0952-4746/34/2/R1/pdf
4  National Grid (2018): Future Energy Scenarios 2018,  
www.fes.nationalgrid.com
5  The Times (2018). Old king coal is back as gas costs rise. 
www.thetimes.co.uk/article/old-king-coal-is-back-as-gas-costs-
rise-g2zvhclxd
6  I.A.G. Wilson and I. Staffell (2018). Rapid fuel switching from coal 
to natural gas through effective carbon pricing. Nature Energy, 3, 
365–372.
7  UK Government (2018): Clean growth strategy.  
www.gov.uk/government/publications/clean-growth-strategy
8  Committee on Climate Change (2015): Power sector scenarios for 
the fifth carbon budget. www.theccc.org.uk/wp-content 
uploads/2015/10/Power-sector-scenarios-forthe- fifth-carbon-
budget.pdf
9  National Grid (2017): Electricity Ten Year Statement 2017 – 
Network development needs assessment (ETYS2017).  
www.nationalgrid.com/sites/default/files/documents/14843_NG_
ETYS_2017_AllChapters_A01_INT.pdf
10  J. Geske, R. Green and I. Staffell, 2018. Elecxit: The Cost of 
Bilaterally Uncoupling British-EU Electricity Trade.
11  R. Green, D. Pudjianto, I. Staffell and G. Strbac, 2016. Market 
design for long-distance trade in renewable electricity. The Energy 
Journal, 37, 5–22.
12  O. Schmidt, A. Hawkes, A. Gambhir and I. Staffell, 2017. The future 
cost of electrical energy storage based on experience rates. Nature 
Energy, 2, 17110.
13  REA (2015): Energy Storage in the UK - An Overview.  
https://www.r-ea.net/upload/rea_uk_energy_storage_report_
november_2015_-_final.pdf
14  Castagneto-Gissey, G. et al. (2016): Regulatory Challenges to 
Energy Storage Deployment – An Overview of the UK Market. 
http://www.restless.org.uk/documents/working-paper-1.pdf
15  BEIS (2018): Smart meter statistics – Quarter 1, 2018, Great 
Britain. www.gov.uk/government/collections/smart-meters-
statistics
16  ElectraLink (2018): Monthly Smart Meter Installs.  
www.electralink.co.uk/services/energymarket-insight/monthly-
smart-meter-installs/
17  BEIS (2018): Smart meter statistics – Quarter 1, 2018, Great 
Britain. www.gov.uk/government/collections/smart-meters-
statistics
18  National Grid (2017): Non-BM Balancing Services Volumes and 
Expenditure. www.nationalgrid.com/sites/default/files/documents/
Non-BM%20April%20-%20September%202017_0.pdf
19  The guardian (2018): Smart meters to save UK households only 
£11 a year, report finds. www.theguardian.com/
environment/2018/jul/21/smart-meters-to-save-uk-
householdsonly-11-a-year-report-finds
20  Office for National Statistics (2017): UK Environmental Accounts: 
Low Carbon and Renewable Energy Economy Survey: 2016 final 
estimates. https://www.ons.gov.uk/economy/
environmentalaccounts/bulletins/finalestimates/2016
21  Jacobson, M. (2017): 100% Clean and Renewable Wind, Water, 
and Sunlight All-Sector Energy Roadmaps for 139 Countries of the 
World. Joule, 1(1), 108-121
22  DECC (2011): Renewables Investment and Jobs. assets.
publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/
attachment_data/file/66200/5937-renewables-investment-and-
jobs-map-1-april-2011-.pdf
23  DECC (2012): Renewables Investment and Jobs.  
https://blogs.wwf.org.uk/wpcontent/uploads/decc_renewable_
investment_and_jobs.png
2.3 References
27
Section 3:  
Energy in 
transport
The overall barometer for transport shows a mixed view. Targets 
for the electrification of private car and public bus transport are 
on-track, along with the infrastructure required for charging these 
vehicles. However, it will require a large ramp up in deployment 
of these technologies in the near future to stay on-track.
The story for the sector’s transition 
looks worse for hydrogen deployment, 
heavy duty transport and rail emissions. 
Deployment numbers and GHG emission 
reductions in these areas are behind where 
they need to be. Technologies that could 
benefit these applications are not on-
track to have the infrastructure in place.
Transport is behind in reaching its 
GHG emissions target meaning large 
transformations (e.g. electrification) are 
required to achieve the 2030 climate targets.
Electric vehicle (EV) sales are ramping 
up, but the current 0.4% fleet penetration 
will need to become 27% by 2030.
At an aggregated, national level EV charger 
deployment appears to be on target to 
deliver enough charging points for the 
projected EV uptake. However, there is 
regional and intraregional clustering of 
these charging points, which will result 
in shortages and access problems in 
some areas. The electricity network 
implications of charging infrastructure 
also require significant investment.
Total cost of ownership (TCO) calculations 
show that in London battery EVs are 
less expensive than diesel or petrol 
vehicles. The regional variation in
TCOs is linked to the average distance 
travelled by private vehicle per year per 
region and, to a lesser extent, regional 
variation in fuel and electricity prices.
EV owners in Wales, Scotland and the 
North East face the greatest additional 
financial burden, relative to average 
income, when switching to battery 
electric and plug-in hybrid vehicles.
Rail emissions are currently not on track 
to achieve decarbonisation targets, and 
progress will likely fall further behind as 
electrification projects are being abandoned.
3 Section 3: Energy in transport 
 
Figure 3.1: Progress towards transforming Britain’s transport system, highlighting the areas that are under- and 
over-performing relative to near-term targets for decarbonisation.  Each area is reviewed later in this section. 
The overall barometer for transport shows a 
mixed view. Targets for the electrification of 
private car and public bus transport are on-track, 
along with the infrastructure required for charging 
these vehicles. However, it will require a large 
ramp up in deployment of these technologies in 
the near future to stay on-track. 
The story for the sector’s transition looks worse 
for hydrogen deployment, heavy duty transport 
will result in shortages and access problems in 
some areas. The electricity network implications 
of charging infrastructure also require significant 
investment.  
Total cost of ownership (TCO) calculations show 
that in London battery EVs are less expensive than 
diesel or petrol vehicles. The regional variation in 
TCOs is linked to the average distance travelled by 
private vehicle per year per region and, to a lesser 
Figure 3.1: Progress towards transforming Britain’s transport system, highlighting the areas that are under- and over-performing 
relative to near-term targets for decarbonisation. Each area is reviewed later in this section.
28
The energy transition in the transport 
sector has been relatively slow and 
limited. In 2004, renewable energy 
(biofuels and electricity) made up 
less than 1% of all transport energy. 
By 2016, this figure stood at 3.5%1. 
The transport sector generated 115 
MtCO2e in 2015, accounting for 
24% of total emissions (Figure 3.2). 
Of this, surface transport makes up 
95% of these emissionsa. This 
coupled with current technological 
innovation suggests that surface 
transport has the greatest scope for 
an energy transformation within the 
transport sector. The remainder of 
this section will provide a detailed 
analysis of the current state of the 
surface transport sector, and how it 
is progressing against energy 
transition targets. The focus will be 
on road transport, as opposed to 
rail, as this accounts for around 
90% of GHG emissions and 
passenger kilometres.
The future sees a transition in transport 
where GHG emissions are halved, EVs 
account for 27% of the personal vehicle 
fleet, electric charging and hydrogen 
refuelling infrastructure support the 
changing vehicle fleet, and rail emissions 
decrease by a quarter, all by 2030. Air 
quality concerns and national climate 
targets are the main drivers of this transition, 
resulting in a variety of low-carbon options, 
such as electrification and hydrogen. 
Other options include biofuels and synthetic 
fuels, which will likely play a role in the 
transition, especially in the short-term, but 
remain outside the scope of this study. The 
transition up to 2030 will be mostly focussed 
on private-vehicles, with governments and 
industry already ramping up to achieve 
future targets. Electrification of buses, 
heavy good vehicles and rail will be low 
until 2030 but are expected to achieve 
large scale deployment nearer 2050.
3.1 Current status and  
future targets in transport
a  For this research, transport focuses solely on surface transport (i.e. road and rail). Domestic aviation and shipping account 
for less than 5% of emissions from domestic transport. International aviation and shipping are not included due to concerns 
over appropriate carbon accounting methodologies and the lack of complete datasets.
 
Energising Britain 
 
43 
 
3.1 Current status and future targets in transport 
The energy transition in the transport sector has been relatively slow and limited. 
In 2004, renewable energy (biofuels and electricity) made up less than 1% of all 
transport energy. By 2016, this figure stood at 3.5%1. The transport sector 
generated 115 MtCO2e in 2015, accounting for 24% of total emissions (Figure 3.2). 
Of this, surface transport makes up 95% of these emissionsa. This coupled with 
current technological innovation suggests that surface transport has the greatest 
scope for an energy transformation within the transport sector. The remainder of 
this section will provide a detailed analysis of the current state of the surface 
transport sector, and how it is progressing against energy transition targets. The 
focus will be on road transport, as opposed to rail, as this accounts for around 90% 
of GHG emissions and passenger kilometres. 
 
 
Figure 3.2:  Total GHG emissions by transport mode in Britain from 2008-2015.2  
The future sees a transition in transport where GHG emissions are halved, EVs 
account for 27% of the personal vehicle fleet, electric charging and hydrogen 
refuelling infrastructure support the changing vehicle fleet, and rail emissions 
decrease by a quarter, all by 2030. Air quality concerns and national climate targets 
are the main drivers of this transition, resulting in a variety of low-carbon options, 
such as electrification and hydrogen. Other options include biofuels and synthetic 
fuels, which will likely play a role in the transition, especially in the short-term, but 
remain outside the scope of this study. The transition up to 2030 will be mostly 
focussed on private-vehicles, with governments and industry already ramping up to 
 
a For this research, transport focuses solely on surface transport (i.e. road and rail). Domestic aviation and shipping 
account for less than 5% of emissions from domestic transport. International aviation and shipping are not included 
due to concerns over appropriate carbon accounting methodologies and the lack of complete datasets. 
Figure 3.2: Total GHG emissions by transport mode in Britain from 2008-2015.2
29
By 2030, surface transport emissions should 
not exceed 60 MtCO2e. As emissions currently 
stand at 111.8 MtCO2e, there is still a 
considerable amount of work required by 
this sector.
 
The surface transport system 
is not reducing emissions fast 
enough to remain on track 
to meet its 2030 target.
Progress against the 2030 
decarbonisation targets is unequal 
between regions, with London and the
North West decarbonising the quickest 
and the East and East Midlands falling the 
furthest behind. This indicates that the 
energy transition in transport is not occurring 
at the same rate across the country.
Compared to 2008, transport emissions 
have decreased by 3.7%, likely a result 
of the global recession and improved 
vehicle efficiency, as opposed to an 
energy transformation or fuel switching. 
During this same time, renewable energy 
in transport increased by less than 1% 
(2.8% in 2008 to 3.5% in 2016)1. Further, 
between 2010 and 2016, surface transport 
emissions increased by 1.1%. With 2016 
emissions at 111.8 MtCO2e 2, significant 
decreases will be required to achieve 
emissions below 60 MtCO2e 5 by 2030.
All regions in GB have decreased their 
surface transport emissions relative to
2008 (Figure 3.4). However, compared to 
2010, the story changes, with only four 
regions decreasing or maintaining their 
emissions (Figure 3.3). This shows the relative 
importance the recession has played on 
reducing surface transport emissions in GB 
since 2008. London, compared to both 2008 
and 2010, shows the greatest decrease in 
emissions likely related to efficiency gains 
in public transport, increases in active travel 
and decreases in road kilometres driven.
Using decarbonisation as a proxy, the 
regions of GB are undergoing energy 
transitions at unequal rates. London has
decarbonised at the fastest rate, and 
along with the North West has exceeded 
the required emissions reductions to be 
on track to achieve the 2030 emissions 
target. In contrast, the East and the East
Midlands are the furthest behind. These 
regional inequalities could further be 
amplified if regions continue progressing 
at these speeds, suggesting that some 
regions will be significantly further behind 
in the transport energy transition.
3.1.1 GHG emissions from transport
 
Energising Britain 
 
45 
 
3.1.1 GHG emissions from transport 
 
 
Figure 3.3: Barometer for GHG emission reductions.3,4,5,6 
Top: national progress; Above: regional progress;  
Right: map of greenhouse gas emission reductions by region. 
By 2030, surface transport emissions 
should 
not 
exceed 
60 
MtCO2e. 
As 
emissions 
currently 
stand 
at 
111.8 
MtCO2e, there is still a considerable 
amount of work required by this sector. 
The surface transport system is 
not reducing emissions fast 
enough to remain on track to 
meet its 2030 target. 
Progress 
against 
the 
2030 
decarbonisation 
targets 
is 
unequal 
between regions, with London and the 
North West decarbonising the quickest 
and the East and East Midlands falling the 
furthest behind. This indicates that the 
energy transition in transport is not 
occurring at the same rate across the 
country. 
 
Figure 3.3: Barometer for GHG emission reductions.3,4,5,6
Top: national progress; Above: regional progress; Top Right: map of greenhouse gas emission reductions by region.
Figure 3.4: Greenhouse gas emission reductions by region 
between 2008 and 2016.4
30
Plug-in vehicles are still in their infancy, 
representing only 1 in 50 new car sales,  
and 1 in 250 vehicles on the road. However, 
Britain is on-track to achieve plug-in vehicle 
targets, which require a 27% share of the 
private vehicle fleet by 2030.
 
Electric vehicle sales have 
dramatically increased since
2011 in all GB regions.
Plug-in vehicles are most abundant on 
the roads of the southern half of Britain. 
They are more than three-times more 
prevalent in the West Midlands as in 
Wales. This suggests other barriers are 
present in the northern regions that is 
impeding the growth of plug-in vehicles.
Plug-in vehicle growth has had a 60-fold 
increased since 20117, resulting in their 
increased share of newly sold vehicles, from 
0% in 2008 up to 2% by 2018 (Figure 3.6). 
This growth is likely a direct result of EVs 
becoming cheaper, and a greater range of 
vehicles available on the market. All regions 
of GB have significantly increased the number 
of plug-in vehicles on the road since 2011 
– with the Yorkshire and the Humber having 
200 times more vehicles in 2018 (Figure 3.6).
Plug-in vehicles are most abundant in the 
southern regions of GB. This suggests 
regional factors – e.g. income, availability 
of chargers, driving patterns – are affecting 
the expansion of plug-in vehicles.
Despite recent growth, plug-in vehicle 
penetration is less than 1 in 200 vehicles 
currently on the road7. This suggests that 
growth will need to continue along this 
seemingly exponential trend to ensure 
that the plug-in vehicles account for 
27% of all personal vehicles by 20309.
Regionally, the West Midlands, the East, 
South East and London are leading, with 
plug-in vehicle penetration above the 2017 
target of 0.4%. However, many regions, 
such as Wales and the North West, are 
at risk of being left behind in the plug-in 
vehicle transition, achieving less than 0.2% 
of plug-in vehicle penetration. This regional 
disparity could potentially be masked in 
the future, if the national target is achieved 
through the efforts of only a few key regions.
3.1.2 Plug-in vehicles in the car fleet
 
Energising Britain 
 
47 
 
3.1.2 Plug-in vehicles in the car fleet 
 
 
Figure 3.5: Barometer for plug-in vehicle penetration.7,8,9 
Top: national progress; Above: regional progress; 
Right: map of regional electric vehicle penetration. 
 
Plug-in vehicles are still in their infancy, 
representing only 1 in 50 new car sales, 
and 1 in 250 vehicles on the road. 
However, Britain is on-track to achieve 
plug-in vehicle targets, which require a 
27% share of the private vehicle fleet by 
2030.  
Electric vehicle sales have 
dramatically increased since 
2011 in all GB regions. 
Plug-in vehicles are most abundant on the 
roads of the southern half of Britain. They 
are more than three-times more prevalent 
in the West Midlands as in Wales. 
This suggests other barriers are present 
in the northern regions that is impeding 
the growth of plug-in vehicles. 
 
Iain Staffell� 7/11/18 10:17
Comment [4]: Charts beyond this point 
are in Arial.  Before this they were in 
Helvetica to match with the maps. 
 
48 
 
Transport  
 
 
Plug-in vehicle growth has had a 60-fold increased since 20117, resulting in their 
increased share of newly sold vehicles, from 0% in 2008 up to 2% by 2018 (Figure 
3.6). This growth is likely a direct result of EVs becoming cheaper, and a greater 
range of vehicles available on the market. All regions of GB have significantly 
increased the number of plug-in vehicles on the road since 2011 – with the 
Yorkshire and the Humber having 200 times more vehicles in 2018 (Figure 3.6). 
Plug-in vehicles are most abundant in the southern regions of GB. This suggests 
regional factors – e.g. income, availability of chargers, driving patterns – are 
affecting the expansion of plug-in vehicles.    
Despite recent growth, plug-in vehicle penetration is less than 1 in 200 vehicles 
currently on the road7. This suggests that growth will need to continue along this 
seemingly exponential trend to ensure that the plug-in vehicles account for 27% of 
all personal vehicles by 20309.  
Regionally, the West Midlands, the East, South 
East and London are leading, with plug-in vehicle 
penetration above the 2017 target of 0.4%. 
However, many regions, such as Wales and the 
North West, are at risk of being left behind in the 
plug-in vehicle transition, achieving less than 
0.2% 
of 
plug-in 
vehicle 
penetration. 
This 
regional disparity could potentially be masked in 
the future, if the national target is achieved 
through the efforts of only a few key regions.  
 
 
 
 
Figure 3.5: Barometer for plug-in vehicle penetration.7,8,9
Top: national progress; Above: regional progress; Top Right: map of regional electric vehicle penetration.
Figure 3.6: (left) Proportion of new car sales that are electric7,8; (right) Number of registered plug-in vehicles by region.7
31
There are currently over 17,000 chargers in 
Great Britain, of which 3,600 are rapid. By 
2030, there should be over 28,000 chargers.
 
EV charger deployment  
is well ahead of schedule to 
meet the 2030 target, but 
the deployment is highly 
clustered in cities.
While all regions have deployed more 
chargers than required to achieve the 
indicative 2018 target, over 50% are 
located in London, Scotland and the 
South East. Scotland and London 
have already deployed more chargers 
than required by the 2030 target.
Electric charger deployment is on track 
to achieve its 2030 target ahead of time, 
having already achieved the interim target 
for 2020 (6,250 chargers). There are 
currently more rapid chargers in the GB 
than the target suggests there should be 
by 2030 to support a growing EV industry 
(1,170 in 2030 versus 3,600 in August
2018). Further, in August 2018, 2/3 of the 
parking-based chargers required by
2030 were already installed in Britain. 
However, these EV chargers are not 
evenly distributed amongst the British 
regions, with over 50% located in 
London, Scotland and the South East. 
This is not particularly surprising for London 
and the South East, as they currently 
have a large share of the electric vehicles 
currently on the road. Scotland, on the 
other hand, is one of the lower ranking 
regions in terms of number of EVs on the 
road. The high number of electric chargers 
could suggest a strong projected growth in 
battery electric vehicles in the region. This 
could in part be related to the environmental 
commitments set by the devolved power.
The national target was apportioned to  
each region based on the current number  
of registered vehicles. Scotland and London 
have already deployed more chargers than 
would be required to achieve the 2030 
target. All other regions have surpassed 
their indicative 2018 deployment target. This 
suggests that all regions are implementing 
one of the tools required to support the 
electrification transition of the private vehicle.
3.1.3 EV charging points
 
50 
 
Transport  
 
 
3.1.3 EV charging points 
 
 
Figure 3.7: Barometer for electric charging points.10,11
Top: national progress; Above: regional progress; Top Right: map of the number of electric charging locations.
32
Hydrogen refuelling station deployment is 
not occurring quickly enough, jeopardising 
the achievement of the 2030 target, needed 
to support a hydrogen transport network.
 
65 hydrogen refuelling  
stations are required  
to support an initial 
hydrogen network in GB.
There are currently 19,  
with over half located  
in London.
Apart from London, hydrogen refuelling 
stations are predominantly located 
on the western side of Britain and 
tend to be relatively clustered.
The government-industry UK H2 Mobility 
initiative set a target for the number of 
hydrogen refuelling stations required to 
support a national hydrogen vehicle fleet.
By 2030, 1,150 would be required, with 
intermediate targets of 65 filling stations for 
2020 and 330 by 202512. Currently, there 
are only 19 hydrogen refuelling stations, 
jeopardising the feasibility of achieving 
the 2030 target, unless considerably more 
effort is put towards their deployment.
As with electric chargers, though to a more 
extreme degree, the distribution of hydrogen 
stations is strongly clustered – currently, over 
50% of refuelling stations are in London. A 
further eight stations are located in western 
Great Britain, and one on the Scottish 
East coast. Further, the national target for 
stations was apportioned to each region 
based on the current number of registered 
vehicles. London and Wales are the only 
regions that are on track to achieve the 
2030 target. Conversely, the eastern side 
of England (excluding London) does not 
have any refuelling stations, threatening 
their ability to achieve the 2030 target.
The location of these stations limits the 
operation of hydrogen-fuelled vehicles, and 
further limits the benefits (e.g. improved air 
quality) of this energy transition to a few 
clustered areas. Due to their long distance 
and high energy requirements, heavy goods 
vehicles (HGVs) would benefit most from a 
well-developed hydrogen network. However, 
the limited deployment and clustering of 
stations are restricting its use in HGVs.
3.1.4 Hydrogen refuelling stations
 
Energising Britain 
 
53 
 
 
3.1.4 Hydrogen refuelling stations 
 
 
Figure 3.8: Barometer for hydrogen refuelling stations.10,12
Top: national progress; Above: regional progress; Top Right: map of regional current status.
33
The transition to electric and hydrogen buses 
in on track to achieve the 2030 target. Despite 
making up a low share of the bus fleet, 
electric buses are replacing, in part, diesel 
buses coming to the end of their lifetime.
 
Early battery and hydrogen 
electric bus fleet penetration 
is on track even with overall 
growth of the bus fleet.
Commitments to improving air quality by cities 
is resulting in an increased share of electric 
and hydrogen buses in the overall fleet.
By 2030, battery electric and hydrogen 
buses should account for 3% of bus fleet, 
which, compared to the plug-in vehicle 
target, is relatively small. This is related to 
the longer asset lifetime of the current bus 
fleet compared to private vehicles, and 
therefore a complete change in the fleet 
requires more time. While electrification 
transition may be slow, the progress is 
encouraging. The absolute number of battery 
electric and hydrogen busesb is increasing at 
the same rate as its penetration rate of the 
entire fleet (Figure 3.10). This suggests that 
the increased proportion is due to replacing 
the existing (diesel) fleet with electric/
hydrogen buses, rather than from any 
decrease in the absolute number of buses.
The share of battery electric and hydrogen 
buses in each region is affected by the 
commitments made by cities within each 
region. The East Midlands has the greatest 
share of electric buses compared to any 
other region. Nottingham, in the East 
Midlands, has been an early adopter having 
just increased their fleet to 58 electric buses. 
Cities tend to make their commitments 
to electric buses due to the air quality 
improvements they can provide. London has 
seen a 15-fold increase between 2013 and 
2018 in the number of electric and hydrogen 
buses, which is linked to TfL’s air pollution 
commitments14. The continued transition 
towards electrified public road transport will 
depend on cities, as currently electric buses 
have been limited to relatively short routes. 
However, with the implementation of a 
larger hydrogen network across the country, 
non-metropolitan areas could also benefit 
from an ultra-low emissions bus network.
3.1.5 Electric and hydrogen bus penetration
 
56 
 
Transport  
 
 
3.1.5 Electric and hydrogen bus penetration 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3.10: (left) Electric and hydrogen buses (blue line) and penetration of bus fleet (red line) 13; (right) Number 
of ultra-low emission buses by region between 2013 and 2018 (quarter 1).13 
The share of battery electric and hydrogen buses in each region is affected by the 
commitments made by cities within each region. The East Midlands has the greatest 
share of electric buses compared to any other region. Nottingham, in the East 
Midlands, has been an early adopter having just increased their fleet to 58 electric 
buses. Cities tend to make their commitments to electric buses due to the air 
quality improvements they can provide. London has seen a 15-fold increase 
between 2013 and 2018 in the number of electric and hydrogen buses, which is 
linked to TfL’s air pollution commitments14. The continued transition towards 
electrified public road transport will depend on cities, as currently electric buses 
have been limited to relatively short routes. However, with the implementation of a 
larger hydrogen network across the country, non-metropolitan areas could also 
Figure 3.9: Barometer for battery electric and hydrogen buses.13,9
Top: national progress; Above: regional progress; Top Right: map of regional current status.
Figure 3.10: (left) Electric and hydrogen buses (blue line) and penetration of bus fleet (red line) 13; (right) Number of ultra-low 
emission buses by region between 2013 and 2018 (quarter 1).13
b  Datasets only report the number of ultra-low emission 
vehicles (ULEVs), which are vehicles that emit less than 
75g CO2/km. Therefore, in the case of buses, this refers  
to plug-in electric or hydrogen buses.
34
Less than 0.1% of the heavy goods vehicle 
(HGV) fleet is considered ultra-low emission.
This is not surprising as the transition is likely 
to be based around hydrogen fuel, which is 
lacking a developed refuelling network.
 
Ultra-low emissions
HGV deployment is  
limited in Britain, with  
only four regions having  
more than 1 in 1000  
heavy goods vehicles  
on the road.
Progress towards the electrification of  
HGVs is not on track to achieve the 2030 
target, where 5.5% of the HGV fleet must  
be electrified.
Currently, less than a tenth of a per cent 
of the HGV fleet is considered ultra-low 
emissionsc. This is not unsurprising, 
as HGV technology currently limits its 
transition to using hydrogen, which, as 
discussed previously, is lacking a developed 
infrastructure. However, companies such 
as Tesla, Daimler, Volkswagen and Thor
Trucks, have unveiled plans to produce 
electric HGV vehicles, with Tesla aiming to 
start production as soon as 2019. These 
future technological advancements could 
help Great Britain achieve its target, but 
this will be dependent on when these 
vehicles are commercially rolled-out.
Regionally, the South East, North West and 
Scotland have the greatest proportion of 
ultra-low emission HGVs. These regions 
are equipped with or are near hydrogen 
refuelling stations. Wales, on the other hand, 
has over 10% of British hydrogen refuelling 
stations, but have one of the lowest share 
of ultra-low emission HGVs in its fleet. This 
is likely explained by the fact that these 
hydrogen refuelling stations are located at 
universities/research centre, and therefore are 
not likely to play a large role in ensuring an 
uninterrupted hydrogen network. Further, it 
is important to note that differences between 
regions are very small and all regions are 
at risk of not achieving the 2030 target.
3.1.6 Ultra-low emissions heavy goods vehicles
 
58 
 
Transport  
 
y
,
p
larger hydrogen network across the country, non-metropolitan areas could also 
benefit from an ultra-low emissions bus network.  
3.1.6 Ultra-low emissions heavy goods vehicles 
 
Figure 3.11: Barometer for ultra-low emission HGVs.13
Top: national progress; Above: regional progress; Top Right: map of regional current status.
c  Datasets do not differentiate between the different types 
of ultra-low emission vehicles with regards to HGVs. 
However, based on the definition provided by the 
Department for Transport, only battery electric and 
hydrogen HGVs would qualify under the classification. 
Ultra-low emission vehicles (ULEVs) are vehicles that  
emit less than 75gCO2/km.
 
Energising Britain 
 
59 
 
 
Figure 3.11: Barometer for ultra-low 
emission HGVs.13 
Top: national progress; Above: regional progress;  
Right: map of regional current status. 
Less than 0.1% of the heavy 
goods vehicle (HGV) fleet is 
considered ultra-low emission. 
This is not surprising as the 
transition is likely to be based 
around hydrogen fuel, which is 
lacking a developed refuelling 
network.  
Ultra-low emissions 
HGV deployment is 
limited in Britain, 
with only four regions 
having more than 1 
in 1000 heavy goods 
vehicles on the road. 
Progress 
towards 
the 
electrification of HGVs is not on 
track 
to 
achieve 
the 
2030 
target, where 5.5% of the HGV 
fleet must be electrified. 
 
Currently, less than a tenth of a per cent of the HGV fleet is considered ultra-low 
emissionsc. This is not unsurprising, as HGV technology currently limits its transition 
 
c Datasets do not differentiate between the different types of ultra-low emission vehicles with regards to HGVs. 
However, based on the definition provided by the Department for Transport, only battery electric and hydrogen 
HGVs would qualify under the classification. Ultra-low emission vehicles (ULEVs) are vehicles that emit less than 
75gCO2/km. 
35
Rail emissions have decreased by only 1% 
since 2010, suggesting the industry is falling 
well behind the progress needed to achieve 
the 2030 target.
 
Abandoned electrification  
plans are jeopardising the  
achievement of the 2030  
rail emissions target.
The proportion of electrified rail has only 
modestly increased since 1985, allowing 
only a small segment of the rail network to 
benefit from a decarbonising power sector.
By 2030, the rail industry needs to reduce 
its direct and indirect emissions by 25% as 
compared to 20105. Emissions reductions 
will likely occur in an exponential fashion 
due to the inertia of the industry and the 
relatively long time-frames required to 
complete infrastructure improvements. 
It is, therefore more likely that emissions 
reductions will occur in large discrete steps, 
rather than constant yearly reductions. 
However, since 2010, emissions in rail 
have only decreased by 1% suggesting 
that there is still considerably more work 
required to achieve the 2030 target.
To remain in line with the target, emissions 
will need to start falling due to greater 
overhead electrification and increased 
use of bi-modald, battery and hydrogen 
trains, as well as the use of other low 
carbon fuels. As the target includes 
both direct and indirect emissions, the 
sector could benefit from increasing the 
proportion of railways that are electrified 
to capture the falling carbon intensity of 
the power sector. However, there has been 
very modest progress towards railway 
electrification in the last 30 years (Figure 
3.12). The proportion of electrified rail in
a year is sensitive to the completion 
of electrification projects. The recently 
abandoned overhead electrification plans 
on the Great Western Main Line, Midland
Main Line and Lake Line suggests that 
the proportion of electrified rail will not 
dramatically increase in the near future, 
jeopardising the 2030 target18. But, the 
government does suggest that trains on 
these lines could be battery and hydrogen 
powered. While the proportion of electrified 
rail will increase with the completion of
High Speed 2, this is not expected to be 
completed before the late 2020s, and 
therefore its contribution towards achieving 
the target could be limited, especially if 
there are any completion delays. Further, 
part of the remaining regions to electrify 
are too remote, and therefore the business 
case for electrification is not strong.
3.1.7 Rail emissions
 
Energising Britain 
 
61 
 
3.1.7 Rail emissions 
 
 
Figure 3.12: Barometer for rail emission reductions.15,5 
Top: national progress; Above: the share of electrified railways 
across Britain over the last three decades; 16  
Right: map of Britain’s railway lines, with colours to signify 
existing or proposed electrified lines, and grey to signify 
diesel.17 
Rail emissions have decreased by only 
1% since 2010, suggesting the industry 
is falling well behind the progress 
needed to achieve the 2030 target.  
Abandoned electrification 
plans are jeopardising the 
achievement of the 2030 rail 
emissions target.  
The proportion of electrified rail has only 
modestly increased since 1985, allowing 
only a small segment of the rail network 
to benefit from a decarbonising power 
sector.  
  
Iain Staffell� 7/11/18 10:18
Comment [5]: This image could be 
improved further, needs larger text and 
the colours of existing vs. proposed vs. 
non-electrified need to be better 
differentiated. 
Figure 3.12: Barometer for rail emission reductions.15,5
Top: national progress; Above: he share of electrified railways across Britain over the last three decades; 16; Top Right:  
map of Britain’s railway lines, with colours to signify existing or proposed electrified lines, and grey to signify diesel.17
d  A bi-mode train is powered by and can switch between  
an electricity supply or an on-board diesel engine.
36
3.2.1 Total cost of car ownership 
passenger vehicles
A regional analysis of the total 
cost of ownership (TCO) of 
conventional (petrol and diesel), 
battery electric (BEV) and 
plug-in hybrid electric (PHEV) 
reveals which regions will incur 
a greater financial burden from 
electrification. This investigates 
the impacts of regional differences 
(e.g. driving habits, fuel costs) 
on the TCO of privately-owned 
vehicles. Appendix 1 provides 
an overview of the methodology, 
while Appendix 2 provides 
further analysis of the results.
The TCO gap is the difference in the 
lifetime cost of owning one vehicle over 
another. At a national level, the TCO gap is 
greatest between a petrol vehicle and a
PHEV (~£6,200) and is the smallest 
between a diesel vehicle and a BEV
(~£1,900)e. The regional variation in TCO is 
strongly related to the regional differences 
in kilometres driven, and, to a smaller 
extent, the regional variation in fuel cost 
prices (i.e. electricity, petrol and diesel). 
The annual distance travelled by each 
vehicle impacts its fuel requirements, 
depreciation rate and maintenance cost.
Further, recent changes to the Plug-In Grant 
Scheme –BEVs, as of the beginning of
November 2018, will receive £3,500 instead 
of £4,500 and PHEVs will no longer receive 
any subsidy, previously £2,500 – has 
increased the TCO gap between these 
electric cars and fossil fuelled ones. Prior 
to this change, the TCO gap between a 
petrol vehicle and PHEV was ~£3,700 and 
between a diesel and BEV was ~£900.
Irrespective of vehicle type or changes 
in the Grant Scheme, the TCO gap is 
highest in Wales and Scotland, and 
lowest in London (Figure 3.13). 
In London, unlike other regions, private 
vehicle use is not the main commuting 
mode, resulting in lower annual driving 
distances and subsequently lower TCOs.
Further, London has implemented an 
additional tax – the Congestion Charge – 
from which plug-in vehicles are exemptf. 
As a result of this driving pattern and the 
additional charge on diesel (and petrol)
vehicles, in London, the TCO of a BEV 
is lower than diesel vehicles. Prior to the 
change of the Plug-In Grant Scheme, the
TCO of a BEV was also lower than a petrol 
vehicle in London. Further, this research 
assumed that a vehicle would only enter 
into the Congestion Charge zone eight 
times in the year. However, if travelled 
into every working day, the annual cost 
of a petrol and diesel vehicle would 
increase by up to £3,000. Therefore, due 
to the additional £9,000 cost that would 
be incurred over a 3-year period for fossil 
cars, the TCO of PHEVs becomes lower 
than fossil-fuelled vehicles in London. If 
similar schemes were introduced in other 
regions, it could significantly improve 
the economics of BEVs and PHEVs, 
bringing them closer or even below cost 
parity with petrol and diesel vehicles.
3.2 Implications of a transitioning  
transport sector
e  Plug-in vehicles are likely to become even more 
cost-competitive against diesel vehicles, due to incoming 
legislation bans on diesel affecting depreciation rates.
f  Based on data published by TfL, who maintain the 
Congestion Charge scheme, an average of eight trips  
per vehicle per year into the congestion charge zone  
was assumed.
Figure 3.13: Regional TCO gaps between conventional and plug-in vehicles.
37
 
Battery electric vehicles  
are already cheaper than  
petrol and diesel cars  
in London. This is related  
to fewer kilometres  
driven and the additional 
congestion charge.
While the TCO gaps may suggest BEVs, and 
to a lesser extent PHEVs, are approaching 
cost parity with conventional vehicles, there 
are additional concerns that could further 
hinder the deployment of these electrified 
vehicles. The initial cost, including the Plug-
In Grant, of BEVs and PHEVs, used in this 
analysis, are up to twice the price of petrol 
and diesel cars. This significantly larger up-
front cost can negatively impact the uptake 
of plug-in vehicles, even if TCO costs were 
relatively similar. This is especially true for 
lower gross income households, though 
the burden of a high initial cost could be 
slightly dampened if vehicles are financed.
In general, the availability of charging 
facilities correlates with the uptake of 
electric vehicles across GB. This is evident 
when looking at Wales, which has the fewest 
electric charging facilities and the lowest 
EV share in its fleet. Scotland, on the other 
hand, is an exception where the high share 
of British EV chargers are offset by the high 
TCO costs of plug-in vehicles. This suggests 
that in some cases costs issues outrank 
a high charger availability. As London is 
currently the only region where switching to 
BEVs produces a financial benefit against 
diesel vehicle ownership, it is best suited to 
continue pursuing the transition towards an 
electrified private car vehicle fleet. Additional 
measures (e.g. congestion charge) could 
be implemented in other regions to even 
out TCO barriers, giving regions the 
same opportunities to progress along the 
electrified private vehicle transition.
38
3.2.2 Availability of electric 
vehicle charging points
London, Scotland and the North East 
have a low ratio of number of EVs per 
available charging point, linked to having 
a higher proportion of EV chargers and/
or a smaller (absolute) number of EVs 
(Figure 3.14). The East of England and the
West Midlands have much higher ratios, 
suggesting greater competition for charging. 
However, this competition would not be as 
acute if EV penetration had not exceeded 
the 2017 modelled penetration of 0.4% 
of the fleet. This potentially suggests that 
in these regions the number of EVs is 
growing rapidly but is not being matched 
by charging infrastructure. On the other 
hand, if EV penetration in Wales had 
achieved 0.4% in 2017, it would have 
seen much greater competition for their
EV chargers at 11 vehicles per charger. 
The regional variations in the number of 
EVs per charger would become even more 
pronounced by 2030g, with competition 
being as low as 125 cars per charger in 
London to as high as of 590 cars per charger 
in the West Midlands. This competition 
will greatly affect vehicles owners who 
do not have private at-home charging. 
This competition would be amplified by 
overnight charging, if owners utilised these 
public points for such charging patterns, 
as vehicles will remain in these limited 
spots for longer periods, denying access 
to other vehicles. Therefore, this projected 
competition appears to suggest that the
27,000 EV charger target may not be 
sufficient to support the EV deployment.
The average distance to an EV charger for 
British regions ranges between 0.8km and 
3.7km, suggesting that charging facilities 
should not be a barrier to EV uptake, given 
current technology (Figure 3.14). However, 
when investigating in further detail where 
these chargers are located, it is not very 
surprising to find them clustered around 
cities – where population (and vehicle) 
densities are highest and where people have 
limited opportunities for private charging 
(i.e. do not have private garages/driveways). 
This suggests that anxieties over charging 
facilities may in part be dampened in cities 
but will remain present (if not stronger) in 
rural areas, where distances to chargers 
may be far greater. Rural areas, and non-
metropolitan regions, are therefore at 
risk of behind left behind in the transition 
towards private-vehicle electrification.
A particular example of this is seen in 
Scotland, which has large areas without 
any charging points (particularly in the 
Highlands). Nonetheless, the average 
Scot is closer to a charging point than 
people in most English regions. This 
is because chargers in Scotland are 
heavily concentrated within Glasgow, 
Edinburgh, Dundee and Aberdeen, giving 
good coverage for most, but some 
people will be left more than 50 km away 
from any charging infrastructure.
The increase in EVs will have impacts on 
network loads, as the consumption of 
one vehicle is equivalent to an additional 
home19. There is potential for these vehicles 
to charge overnight, when current demand 
is lowest. However, this will likely further 
change the demand profile. Further, owners 
will likely plug in their cars when they are 
parked, rather than returning to plug them 
in when demand is lowest. In this case, 
there is potential to delay or offset charging 
times, through smart charging to ease 
peak demand. Vehicle to grid (V2G) has 
been suggested as an extension to smart 
charging, which would enable electricity 
stored in EVs to be fed back into the 
grid at times of peak demand. Regions 
with less EV penetration and charger 
deployment could miss out on any benefit 
available from smart charging and V2G.
This could mean more investment in grid 
reinforcement in these regions, with the 
cost being passed onto the consumers.
 
Competition for EV  
chargers will become more 
acute if EV penetration targets 
are achieved. This is likely 
to be especially true in cities 
where more vehicle owners 
will not have private access 
to charging infrastructure.
The average distance between a home and 
the nearest charger will affect, at least in 
part, how a consumer perceives the ease 
of use of an EV. London has the lowest 
average distance between a home and a 
charger, which is not surprising given the 
high number of EV chargers and the high 
density of homes (Figure 3.14). Wales, on 
the other hand, has the largest average 
distance between chargers and homes.
This could again partly explain, 
along with the higher TCO of plug-in 
vehicles, why uptake of EVs in Wales 
is lagging every other region.
Figure 3.14: Number of EVs per charging point by region.7,10
Figure 3.15: Average distance from households to the 
nearest EV charging point (both rapid or slow).
g This assumes that the 2030 charger target is met and  
that each region increases their charger volume by the 
same proportion.
39
3.2.3 Railway investment
In 2016-17, £15.5 billion was spent on 
maintaining and improving the British rail 
sector, with three-quarters of the funding 
from central government and the remainder 
from local government and private 
corporations20. There are, however, large 
regional disparities in where these funds 
are allocated. London received almost 
50% of the total monetary input (£6.8 
billion), while the North East received less 
than 2% (£290 million)20. When normalised 
by the total number of journeys taken in 
that same year, the North East, followed 
by Wales and the South West, invested 
the most per journey, whereas the East, 
South East and London all spent the least 
per passenger journey (Figure 3.16).
 
London spends more  
on railways than any other 
GB region, but the North 
East spends the most per 
passenger train journey.
When comparing Figure 3.16 to the 
electrification map (Figure 3.12), railway 
spending, electrification and spend per 
passenger journey appear to be correlated.
Generally, regions – such as London, the 
South East and the North West – that have 
the highest absolute spend on rail are also 
the regions with the lowest spend per journey 
(due to high frequency of journeys) and have 
a large portion of the electric rail network. 
The reverse is generally true for regions with 
low absolute rail investment – such as 
Wales, the North East and the South West. 
This suggests that despite the documented 
large up-front cost, electrification can be 
economically viable in the long-term, 
especially on routes with high passenger 
frequency. There are also additional benefits 
linked to greater investment in electrification, 
such as reduced journey times, quieter 
journeys and increased passenger use21. 
These rail investments can therefore lead  
to modal shifts, which could result in even 
further GHG savings, especially if 
passengers are moving from private, 
fossil-based transportation.
Figure 3.16: Railway investment in absolute terms and per passenger journey.20,22
 
Energising Britain 
 
71 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3.16: Railway investment in absolute terms and per passenger journey.20,22  
 
3.3 References 
 
1  Eurostat (2018): SHARES (Renewables). 
https://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/web/energy/data/shares  
2  Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy (2018): Local Authority CO2 
emissions estimates 2005-2016 (kt CO2) – Subset dataset. 
https://www.gov.uk/government/collections/uk-local-authority-and-regional-carbon-
dioxide-emissions-national-statistics#2018 
3  Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy (2018): Table 3: Estimated 
emissions of Greenhouse Gases by source category, type of fuel and end-user category, 
UK 1990-2016. https://www.gov.uk/government/collections/final-uk-greenhouse-gas-
emissions-national-statistics#2018 
4  Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy (2018): “Local Authority CO2 
emissions estimates 2005-2016 (kt CO2) - Full dataset. 
https://www.gov.uk/government/collections/uk-local-authority-and-regional-carbon-
dioxide-emissions-national-statistics 
5  Committee on Climate Change (2015): Sectoral scenarios for the fifth carbon budget. 
https://www.theccc.org.uk/publication/sectoral-scenarios-for-the-fifth-carbon-budget-
technical-report/ 
40
1 
 Eurostat (2018): SHARES (Renewables). 
https://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/web/energy/data/shares
2  Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy (2018): 
Local Authority CO2 emissions estimates 2005-2016 (kt CO2) – 
Subset dataset. https://www.gov.uk/government/collections/
uk-local-authority-and-regional-carbondioxide-emissions-
national-statistics#2018
3  Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy (2018): 
Table 3: Estimated emissions of Greenhouse Gases by source 
category, type of fuel and end-user category, UK 1990-2016. 
https://www.gov.uk/government/collections/final-uk-
greenhouse-gasemissions-national-statistics#2018
4  Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy (2018): 
“Local Authority CO2 emissions estimates 2005-2016 (kt CO2) - 
Full dataset. https://www.gov.uk/government/collections/
uk-local-authority-and-regional-carbondioxide-emissions-
national-statistics
5  Committee on Climate Change (2015): Sectoral scenarios for the 
fifth carbon budget. https://www.theccc.org.uk/publication/
sectoral-scenarios-for-the-fifth-carbon-budgettechnical-report/
6  Committee on Climate Change (2018): Reducing UK emissions 
– 2018 Progress Report to Parliament. https://www.theccc.org.uk/
publication/reducing-uk-emissions-2018-progress-report-to-
parliament/
7  Department for Transport (2018): Table VEH0131: Plug-in cars, 
LGVs and quadricycles licensed at the end of quarter by upper  
and lower tier local authority, United Kingdom from 2011 Q4.  
https://www.gov.uk/government/collections/vehicles-statistics
8  Department for Transport (2018) Table VEH0101: Licensed vehicles 
at the end of the quarter by body type, Great Britain from 1994 Q1; 
also United Kingdom from 2014 Q3. https://www.gov.uk/
government/collections/vehicles-statistics
9  National Grid (2018) Future Energy Scenarios 2018.  
http://fes.nationalgrid.com/fesdocument/
10  Zap Map (2018) “Charging Point Statistics 2018”.  
Available at: https://www.zapmap.com/statistics/
11  Committee on Climate Change (2018): Plugging the Gap: An 
Assessment of Future Demand for Britain’s Electric Vehicle Public 
Charging Network. https://www.theccc.org.uk/wp-content/
uploads/2018/01/Plugging-the-gap-Assessmentof-future-
demand-for-Britains-EV-public-charging-network.pdf
12  UK H2 Mobility (2013): Phase 1 Results. https://assets.publishing.
service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/
attachment_data/file/192440/13-799-uk-h2-mobility-phase-1-
results.pdf
13  Department for Transport (2018) Table VEH0130: Ultra low 
emission vehicles (ULEVs) licensed at the end of quarter by 
bodytype, including regional breakdown for the latest quarter, 
United Kingdom from 2010 Q1. https://www.gov.uk/government/
collections/vehicles-statistics
14  Transport for London (2018): Air Quality. https://tfl.gov.uk/
corporate/about-tfl/airquality
15  Office of Rail and Road (2017): Rail infrastructure, assets  
and environmental: 2016-17 Annual Statistics Release.  
http://orr.gov.uk/__data/assets/pdf_file/0008/25838/
railinfrastructure-assets-environmental-2016-17.pdf
16  Office of Rail and Road (2018): Infrastructure on the railways 
- Table 2.52. http://dataportal.orr.gov.uk/displayreport/report/
html/c35e0c28-324f-4168-81b9-be197963f251
17  Network Rail (2015): A Guide to Overhead Electrification.  
http://www.bathnes.gov.uk/sites/default/files/sitedocuments/
Planning-and-Building-Control/Planning/nr_a_guide_to_
overhead_electrification.pdf
18  Department for Transport and the Rt Hon Chris Grayling MP 
(2017): Rail update: bi-modetrain technology. https://www.gov.uk/
government/speeches/rail-update-bi-mode-traintechnology
19  EA Technologies (2018): Consultation on the Interim Solution for 
Domestic Managed Electric Vehicle Charging: protecting local 
electricity network assets in the absence of market-led solutions. 
https://www.eatechnology.com/wpcontent/uploads/2018/08/
Smart-EV-Managed-EV-Charging-Interim-Solution-Consultation-
Summary-Report-v1.0.pdf
20  HM Treasury (2017): Country and regional analysis November 
2017. https://www.gov.uk/government/statistics/country-and-
regional-analysis-2017
21  Network Rail (2018): Infrastructure insights: electrification.  
https://www.networkrail.co.uk/infrastructure-insights-
electrification/
22  Office of Road and Rail (2018): Passenger journeys by Region 
– Table 15.14. http://orr.gov.uk/statistics/published-stats/
statistical-releases
3.3 References
41
Section 4: 
Energy in 
buildings
Domestic buildings are a high-carbon sector due to heating. 83% of
household energy is used for space and water heating. For economic  
and environmental reasons this is clearly the area to focus upon.
Domestic energy efficiency is lagging 
behind targets and non-domestic 
energy efficiency targets do not exist.
Scotland benefits from the largest share of 
high energy efficiency houses whilst Wales 
has the poorest performing housing stock. 
This has a large effect on energy bills, 
especially with electric heating, which can 
have significantly higher costs than oil or 
gas. Low energy efficiency is also linked to 
fuel poverty. However, this correlation is hard 
to see with the averaged out regional data.
Fuel poverty has been fairly even across 
Britain, but it is generally more prevalent 
in northern regions than southern ones, 
matching the trends in household income.
Few low-carbon heating systems (e.g. heat 
pumps) have been installed so far. Large 
deployment targets to 2030 will require 
a very rapid scale up. This will affect the 
cost of energy for each region differently, 
depending on the housing composition.
Electric heating is generally more expensive 
than on-grid gas and oil at current prices. 
Changing heating technology is capital 
intensive and is much more achievable in 
non-rental housing unless the right policy 
conditions are in place, putting more stress 
on low-income households that rent.
Southern England and Scotland spend 
the most on domestic energy. However, 
northern England and Scotland spend more 
of their income on energy than in the south. 
The difference in average spend by local 
authority area varies by approximately
£750 per year.
Extreme electrification in the future could 
benefit energy spend in Scotland and the 
South-West, while increasing costs for 
midland and northern regions of England.
There are already high levels of electrification 
in non-domestic buildings. The South 
of England is the most electrified part 
of Britain in this sub-sector.
London and the South spend less on energy 
relative to Gross Value Added, making 
companies in these regions less susceptible 
to changes in the energy system.
4 Section 4: Energy in buildings 
 
Figure 4.1: Progress towards transforming Britain’s buildings, highlighting the areas that are under- and over-
performing relative to near-term targets for decarbonisation. Each area is reviewed later in this section. 
Domestic buildings are a high-carbon 
sector 
due 
to 
heating. 
83% 
of 
household energy is used for space 
and water heating. For economic and 
environmental reasons this is clearly 
the area to focus upon. 
Domestic energy efficiency is lagging 
behind 
targets 
and 
non-domestic 
ff
d
will require a very rapid scale up. This 
will affect the cost of energy for each 
region differently, depending on the 
housing composition.  
Electric heating is generally more 
expensive than on-grid gas and oil at 
current 
prices. 
Changing 
heating 
technology is capital intensive and is 
h
h
bl
l
Figure 4.1: Progress towards transforming Britain’s buildings, highlighting the areas that are under- and overperforming
relative to near-term targets for decarbonisation. Each area is reviewed later in this section.
42
The energy transition in buildings is 
primarily driven by the cost of 
energy and climate policy. The 
sector has seen many initiatives (e.g. 
Green Deal) over the past decade to 
facilitate the reduction of demand, 
with the aim that these will bring 
lower energy bills and lower GHG 
emissions. There are two main 
sub-sectors within buildings: 
domestic and non-domestic, the 
latter comprising of commercial and 
public buildings but not industrial or 
agricultural buildings. Electrification 
in buildings currently makes up 
about 35% of total consumption 
(see Figure 1.3). There is a large 
difference between the buildings 
subsectors. Commercial buildings 
utilise electricity for approximately 
50% of their energy use, whereas 
domestic buildings only use just 
above 20%. Public buildings are 
only slightly more electrified at just 
below 30%.
The direct GHG emission reductions 
in all buildings are on track to achieve 
the 2030 target. For direct emissions, 
reductions are either achieved by reducing 
consumption of energy (outside of 
electricity) or fuel switching to electricity. 
The factors affecting these methods are 
investigated in the following sections, 
where domestic and non-domestic 
buildings are considered separately.
Towards a 2030 future, a combination 
of a change to low-carbon heating 
technologies and increasing energy 
efficiency will drive a reduction in direct GHG 
emissions from this sector. Electrification 
of heating is one method to achieve
decarbonisation in buildings – shifting the 
emissions burden from the buildings sector 
to the power sector. Although a viable 
option, the economics and practicalities of 
electrification for heating versus a range of 
other low-carbon options, such as hydrogen 
and biomass is still unclear. The exact 
individual contributions of each of these 
technologies to a low-carbon buildings 
sector will become clearer through the 
2020s, where policies will be implemented 
to reach climate targets and rapidly falling 
costs of renewable generation technologies. 
The electrification through heat pumps 
is forecasted to become common place 
throughout British homes, with a predicted 
1 in 12 households utilising this technology 
in 2030. At the same time, this will be 
supported by an energy efficient housing 
stock, with approximately 3 out of 4 
houses having an Energy Performance
Certificate above a band C. This 
improvement will help to lower consumption, 
reducing energy bills or soften any possible 
increases in the cost of heating through 
alternative technologies and fuels.
The lack of available data and targets leave 
the future energy transition in buildings 
unclear, with even the current state of 
energy in buildings being relatively difficult to 
determine, when compared to other sectors. 
This is particularly evident in nondomestic 
buildings, where little information on 
the sub-sector’s progress exists.
Elevated levels of heating electrification 
in non-domestic buildings is likely to be a 
good option for further decarbonisation, 
although increases in commercial 
energy spend may affect businesses 
in some region more than others.
4.1 Overall buildings current 
status and future targets
43
4.2 Current status and future 
targets for domestic buildings
The reduction of direct GHG emissions 
from domestic buildings is on track. Direct 
emissions reductions have mainly been 
achieved through reducing consumption 
by increasing energy efficiency and by 
switching heating to cleaner fuels or to 
electricity (where it is then accounted for 
in indirect emissions – the power sector).
 
Over 80% of energy  
used in homes is for heating  
– suggesting large potential for 
continued decarbonisation..
These options have been supported by 
government policies aimed at increasing 
energy efficiency (e.g. Energy Company 
Obligationb) and low-carbon energy 
technologies in homes (e.g. through 
the Renewable Heat Incentivec). 
Heating (space and water) dominates 
domestic energy usage, accounting for over
80% of total domestic building energy 
demand. Lighting and appliances are 
100% electrified, whereas cooking still 
uses fossil fuels in many homes but can 
be electrified with relative ease4. Heating 
(water and space) is predominately achieved 
through the combustion of fossil fuels 
but electric replacements are usually less 
straightforward and can be more expensive. 
Most of the economic and environmental 
savings in domestic buildings can be 
achieved by increasing their thermal energy 
efficiency and/or by switching heating 
technologies and fuels. There is potential of 
decreasing direct emissions further through 
electrification of heating (or other low-
carbon options). However, the additional 
(indirect) emissions could result in an 
overall net-increase if power sector does 
not decarbonise fast enough. The following 
sections now focus on these efficiency and 
heating technologies measures, as well 
as their socio-economic implications.
4.2.1 Domestic GHG emissions
 
78 
 
Buildings 
 
4.2 Current status and future targets for domestic buildings 
4.2.1 Domestic GHG emissions 
 
 
Figure 4.2: Barometer for direct GHG emissions from 
domestic buildings. 
Above: national progress1,2,3,a; 
Below right: The split of energy consumption in an average 
household across different energy services4. 
The reduction of direct GHG emissions 
from domestic buildings is on track. Direct 
emissions reductions have mainly been 
achieved through reducing consumption 
by increasing energy efficiency and by 
switching heating to cleaner fuels or to 
electricity (where it is then accounted for 
in indirect emissions – the power sector). 
Over 80% of energy used in 
homes is for heating – 
suggesting large potential for 
continued decarbonisation. 
 
 
These options have been supported by government policies aimed at increasing 
energy efficiency (e.g. Energy Company Obligationb) and low-carbon energy 
technologies in homes (e.g. through the Renewable Heat Incentivec). 
Heating (space and water) dominates domestic energy usage, accounting for over 
80% of total domestic building energy demand. Lighting and appliances are 100% 
 
a 2017 target is calculated by fitting a declining exponential function to the GHG emission reductions required for 
CCC target 
b The Energy Company Obligation (ECO) is a government energy efficiency scheme in Great Britain to help reduce 
carbon emissions and tackle fuel poverty. You can find out more here about how the scheme affects consumers, 
suppliers, installers and industry. More info at https://www.ofgem.gov.uk/environmental-programmes/eco 
c More information is available on the RHI at https://www.ofgem.gov.uk/environmental-programmes/domestic-rhi 
Figure 4.2: Barometer for direct GHG emissions from domestic buildings.
Above: national progress 1,2,3,a
a  2017 target is calculated by fitting a declining exponential 
function to the GHG emission reductions required for CCC 
target.
b  The Energy Company Obligation (ECO) is a government 
energy efficiency scheme in Great Britain to help reduce 
carbon emissions and tackle fuel poverty. You can find out 
more here about how the scheme affects consumers, 
suppliers, installers and industry. More info at https://
www.ofgem.gov.uk/environmental-programmes/eco
c  More information is available on the RHI at https://www.
ofgem.gov.uk/environmental-programmes/domestic-rhi.
44
The Energy Performance Certificate ratings 
of buildings is currently behind where 
modelling predicts it needs to be. Although, 
it is within 90% of the 2018 target.
 
Homes in Scotland and  
South East England  
have the highest energy 
efficiency, while Wales the 
lowest efficiency homes.
A high proportion of the emission 
reductions required to reach the CCC
2030 GHG target is apportioned to 
energy efficiency measures. Total 
buildings GHG reductions by 2030 
must be 26% for domestic and 21% for 
non-domestic users. This emphasises 
the importance of energy efficiency 
measures to achieve the overall targets.
The range in the average regional 
proportions only varies by 
approximately 10%. Yorkshire, the
East Midlands and the Southwest have 
lower energy efficient homes than the
South of England and Scotland.
Scotland has the highest energy efficiency 
homes and has benefitted from strong 
government agenda to support on the issue, 
initially through advice and education6,g. 
Other reasons for the regional differences 
are unclear but may include the age 
of the properties; newer houses have 
a better performance on average than 
older ones, with more new homes built in 
the southern, more efficient regions7.
Also, the affordability of energy efficiency 
improvement measures can be a barrier, 
as the areas with lower efficiency typically 
have lower household income.
Generally speaking, the regions with 
the most EPC ratings of F and G have 
the lowest proportion of EPC ratings of 
C and above. Scotland has the most 
households with high EPC ratings and
Wales and Yorkshire have the least.
The level of low EPC ratings has a 
correlation with population density, with 
the more rural areas having a higher 
proportion than the urbanised areas.
As buildings transition to cleaner heating 
technologies, energy efficiency will be 
important in keeping household energy bills 
down. Electric or low carbon heating sources 
can be more expensive than current heating 
(see section 0), so increases in efficiency 
are important to offset these costs. The 
current lowest efficiency homes are found 
in areas with lower incomes and, therefore, 
would be more sensitive to energy cost 
increases – highlighting the importance for 
action to mitigate this effect in the future.
4.2.2 Energy efficiency
 
80 
 
Buildings 
 
 
4.2.2 Energy efficiency 
 
Figure 4.3: Barometer for energy efficiency by Energy Performance Certificate (EPC) ratings.
Top: national progress,5,d,e,f; Above: regional progress; Top Right: map of current status.
Figure 4.4: Regional analysis of energy efficiency ratings.
d  England and Wales EPC rating statistics + Scotland
e  EPC assigns a number (1-100) and letter rating (A-G) for 
all properties depending on the efficiency of the building 
and the heating.
f  Known issues the available EPC data complicate 
measuring and creating progress, e.g. the statistics do not 
include every household and they are only recorded as 
‘lodgements’, which prevents distinguish whether 
improvements have been made.
g  The Scottish Government has designated energy 
efficiency as a National Infrastructure Priority, the 
cornerstone of which will be Scotland’s Energy Efficiency 
Programme (SEEP) – a 15 to 20 year programme. More 
info at https://www.gov.scot/Topics/Business-Industry/
Energy/Action/lowcarbon/LCITP/SEEP
45
Poor energy efficiency in homes is often 
linked to fuel poverty, as household bills can 
become too high to maintain a level of 
comfort. 11% of households in Britain are 
fuel-poor. There is small (approximately 5% 
at the most) variation in the proportions of 
fuel poor homes in each region. Although,  
it is important to note, even these small 
percentage changes means thousands or 
even tens-of-thousands of homes.
 
The Midlands, northern  
England and Scotland had  
the worst fuel poverty  
rates in GB between 
2012 and 2016.
For fuel poverty an interim target was not 
included, as the eradication of fuel poor 
homes as soon as possible should be the 
objective. The political nature of this metric 
means that there are no milestones available 
for 2018. Therefore, the status of fuel poverty 
in Britain was deemed to be not on-track.
The Devolved Powers calculate fuel 
poverty through different methodologies. 
In Figure 4.5, the results are shown using 
the low-income high-cost methodology
(LIHC), which is used by England, but 
applied to Scotland and Wales. However, 
using one methodology to calculate 
fuel poverty that is consistent and 
comparable between all the Devolved 
Powers would be useful for effective 
policies and measurement of progress.
Using the national-specific methodologies, 
Scotland has a 34% rate of fuel poverty, 
and Wales 23% – significantly higher 
proportions than those identified by 
the LIHC method. This is important as 
it dictates how many households get 
additional funding, but does not give a 
consistent comparison across Britain.
Other factors linked to fuel poverty are 
usually income and the ownership status of 
the property – whether it is let to a tenant 
or owned by the occupant. The restrictions 
of upgrading a let property means that the 
tenant may not be able to implement any 
improvements; landlords do not gain enough 
value themselves to implement the measures 
and vice versa for the tenants. 38% of homes 
are rented, meaning large proportions of the 
population are subject to these restrictions11.
Scotland, although having higher energy 
efficiency, has a mid-range value for 
proportion of fuel poor homes when 
compared to the rest of the country in the 
LIHC method. This could be caused by the 
low average income per household in this 
region as well as climatic factors. There are 
generally higher fuel poverty rates in the 
northern and midland regions of England and 
also Scotland, supporting the income per 
household and climatic variation reasoning. 
The averaging of household income and 
fuel poverty rates across a region like the 
South West could be masking information 
about the spread and difference in wealth. 
There are large areas of relative poverty 
in the South West and this could also be 
driving the fuel poverty rate in this region.
Similarly, the highest proportion of fuel 
poor homes seen in the West Midlands 
could also be affected by the same 
reasoning of that in the South West. The
Midlands and the northern regions of England 
have some of the lowest shares of homes 
with EPC ratings C and above, suggesting 
that this negatively affects the share of 
fuel poor homes in this region negatively. 
However, the West Midlands, although having 
the highest fuel poverty rates, also has one 
of the lowest proportions of homes with 
EPC rates F and G (the lowest ratings). This 
confirms that although poor energy efficiency 
is linked to fuel poverty, there are other 
factors in these regional averages that have a 
significant effect on the levels of fuel poverty.
4.2.3 Fuel Poverty
 
84 
 
Buildings 
 
 
4.2.3 Fuel Poverty 
 
 
Figure 4.5: Barometer for fuel poverty.
Above: national progress 8,9,10,h; Top Right: map of current status.
h  In GB, 11.3% of homes are fuel poor. For this barometer, it 
is assumed that the start point is 0% non-fuel poor and the 
target is 100% non-fuel poor homes, as it is a government 
objective to have no fuel poor homes as soon as possible. 
For this reason, there is also no interim target value.
46
The electrification of heating is one option to 
potentially reduce the climate impact of 
energy use in homes. Heating is currently 
8% electrified and on-track to reach 2030 
target.
 
Electric heating penetration  
is highest in Scotland  
and the South West where  
there are high proportions  
of off-gas grid households.
However, whether electrification of heating 
will reduce household energy bills depends 
on many factors, including the efficiency 
of the heating technology; the price of 
electricity; and the efficiency of the home.
In GB, over 75% of households are 
connected to the gas grid12. The use 
of efficient boilers in homes connected 
to the gas grid has helped see 
emissions reductions13. However, further 
decarbonisation with gas combustion 
technology is highly limited, raising 
questions on what technology will proliferate 
in a low carbon energy transition. The 
future of heating is still under debate; 
the main options touted are electric 
heating, biomass and hydrogen, with 
varying degrees of hybridisation and
co-existence14. Electric heating (e.g 
storage heaters) is not a new technology.
However, there are questions over the 
efficiency and affordability of these older 
technologies given the current electricity 
price (higher when compared to gas and 
oil) and the efficiency of the current housing 
stock. Newer technologies are considered 
viable, notably heat pumps, claiming high 
efficiencies, potential heating bill decreases 
and fewer carbon emissions. There are 
two types of heat pumps: airsource
(ASHP) and ground-source (GSHP), where 
GSHPs have higher efficiencies but require 
larger amounts of land and are more 
costly to install. As with all electrification 
technologies, emissions depend on the 
carbon intensity of the power system and 
would be accounted for in the power sector, 
reducing buildings’ direct emissions.
There is a split regionally in share of electric 
heat with Scotland and the South of
England being above the national average 
of 8%. The remainder of Britain: the
Midlands, North of England and Wales 
are below it. There is a greater variation, 
ranging from 0-25% of homes using electric 
heat, when analysed at a local authority 
level. The extremities of Britain are the 
most electrified with the Highlands and 
Islands of Scotland seeing up to 25% 
electric heating; the most westerly tip of the 
South-West also having high proportions. 
This is mainly due to the lack of gasgrid 
connection in these areas (see Appendix 3).
As the energy system in Britain transforms, 
the areas with high penetrations of electric 
heat are susceptible to any changes in 
electricity price – especially as the majority 
of current electrification of heating is 
not through the high efficiency options, 
such as heat pumps. Price rises will have 
a greater impact on those households 
which use the most electricity.
4.2.4 Electrification of heating
 
Energising Britain 
 
87 
 
 
4.2.4 Electrification of heating 
 
 
Figure 4.6: Barometer for electrification of heating. 
Top: national progress12,i,j; Above: regional progress12,k;  
Right: map of current status. 
The electrification of heating is one option 
to potentially reduce the climate impact of 
energy use in homes. Heating is currently 
8% electrified and on-track to reach 2030 
target. 
Electric heating penetration is 
highest in Scotland and the South 
West where there are high 
proportions of off-gas grid 
households. 
However, 
whether 
electrification 
of 
heating will reduce household energy bills 
depends on many factors, including the 
 
 
i Electric heating includes all electric heating technologies, from 
storage resistance heaters to heat pumps.  The barometer starts 
at 0% as no start year due to lack of data. Current electrical share 
is taken from 2011 data. 
j The target for electrification of heating is used from the 
modelling of the FES 2DS and is 15% by 2030. 
k Scotland data obtained from: Non-gas map https://www.nongasmap.org.uk/ 
Figure 4.6: Barometer for electrification of heating.
Top: national progress12,i,j; Above: regional progress12,k; Top Right: map of current status.
i  Electric heating includes all electric heating technologies, 
from storage resistance heaters to heat pumps. The 
barometer starts at 0% as no start year due to lack of data. 
Current electrical share is taken from 2011 data.
j  The target for electrification of heating is used from the 
modelling of the FES 2DS and is 15% by 2030.
k  Scotland data obtained from: Non-gas map  
https://www.nongasmap.org.uk/
47
The CCC model that 2.2 million heat pumps 
should be deployed by 2030, rising to
5.8 million by 2035. This assumes a 
cost-optimisedn deployment rate of over 
400,000 heat pumps per year in 2030, and 
900,000 per year in 2035. For context, 
Britain installed approximately 6,500 heat 
pumps last year17.
 
Heat pump deployment  
is not on-track. Currently,  
1 in 650 homes has a  
heat pump, this must  
rise to 1 in 12 by 2030.
Scotland and the South West are ahead 
of target deployment of heat pumps, 
whilst all other regions are behind. This 
is likely because the installation of heat 
pumps is most attractive (practically 
and economically) in areas with high 
off gas-grid houses. London is only at 
5% towards its 2018 interim target.
Heat pumps deployed in 2017 totalled 
40,989 units (31,882 as air-source heat 
pumps (ASHP) and 9,107 ground-sourced 
heat pumps (GSHP))16. According to CCC 
modelling, to achieve climate targets, there 
should be should behave been 65,000 heat 
installed by 201715, therefore suggesting 
current deployment is not on target. The 
current installation rate of approximately 
6,500 per year is much lower than the 
modelled 28,000 per year in 2017. Heat pump 
installation is expected to rampup during the 
2020s and any delay could be compounded, 
making targets difficult to reach.
Aside from heat pumps, there are other 
low-carbon technologies: biomass boilers 
and solar thermal (only for water heatingo. 
Scotland has high biomass deployment, 
as well as ASHP, possibly related to the 
large share of off-gas grid homes in the 
northern part of the region. Further, the 
South West also has high deployment of 
low-carbon heating technologies (Figure 
4.7). In contrast, there are lower levels of 
deployment in the Midlands and northern 
parts of England. These areas have a high 
penetration of gas grid connections and 
on average lower household income. The 
latter may limit the ability to afford the high 
upfront capital costs of low-carbon heating.
London has significantly lower deployment 
of low carbon technologies, even though 
the proportion of houses off the gas-grid is 
similar to the rest of the country. This may 
be down to the number of homes owned 
compared to rented. Heat pumps and 
especially biomass boilers with fuel storage 
are large, and in urban settings space 
comes at a premium or is not available – 
for example in blocks of flats. Therefore, 
installation of these low-carbon technologies 
may not be practical. There are further air 
quality concerns about biomass boilers 
within urbanised areas, such as central
London. These urbanised areas could 
benefit from support of other heating 
technologies not discussed here, 
such as district heating systems.
 
Scotland and the  
South West have the most  
low-carbon heating  
deployments. However, low-
carbon heating penetration  
is below 1% in every 
region of Britain.
The overall percentages of low-carbon 
heating are very low and even lower for just 
heat pumps. This shows, when compared 
with the electrification share in Figure 
4.6, a very small proportion are these 
efficient electrical heating technologies 
and will instead be utilising less efficient 
technologies such as storage heaters. This 
will have a negative effect on the cost of 
energy for those areas with high (inefficient) 
electrification (see section 4.2.4).
4.2.5 Heat pump deployment
 
Energising Britain 
 
89 
 
 
4.2.5 Heat pump deployment 
 
 
Figure 4.7: Barometer for heat pump deployment. 
Top: national progress15,l; Above: regional progress;  
Right: map of current deployment of all low-carbon heating 
technologies (including biomass and solar thermal)16,m. 
The CCC model that 2.2 million heat pumps 
should be deployed by 2030, rising to 
5.8 million by 2035. This assumes a cost-
optimisedn deployment rate of over 400,000 
heat pumps per year in 2030, and 900,000 
per year in 2035. For context, Britain installed 
approximately 6,500 heat pumps last year17. 
Heat pump deployment is not on-track. 
Currently, 1 in 650 homes has a heat 
pump, this must rise to 1 in 12 by2030. 
Scotland and the South West are ahead of 
target deployment of heat pumps, whilst all 
other regions are behind. This is likely 
because the installation of heat pumps is most 
 
 
l In 2017, heat pumps deployment totalled 40,989 units  
  (31,882 ASHP and 9,107 GSHP).16 
mFor this analysis, it was assumed that there was only one low-carbon heating technology installed per property. 
n Unit cost decreases with deployment, thus deployment numbers will increase over time achieve cost-optimal 
deployment. 
Figure 4.7: Barometer for heat pump deployment.
Top: national progress15,l; Above: regional progress; Top Right: map of current deployment of all low-carbon heating 
technologies (including biomass and solar thermal)16,m
l  In 2017, heat pumps deployment totalled 40,989 units 
(31,882 ASHP and 9,107 GSHP).16 
m  For this analysis, it was assumed that there was only one 
low-carbon heating technology installed per property.
n  Unit cost decreases with deployment, thus deployment 
numbers will increase over time achieve cost-optimal 
deployment.
o  Low-carbon heating options included in OFGEM’s 
Renewable Heat Incentive classification: Biomass boilers, 
solar thermal and air-source/ground-source heat pumps. 
Biomass is used as a comparison in the future cost section. 
However, solar thermal is not used due to it only realistically 
being available to supplement water heating requirements, 
as well as a lack of available cost data.
48
This section extracts some of the socio-economic factors of 
the current energy system for buildings and suggests a view 
of what a future may look like with further transformation.
4.3.1 Household energy costs
The current energy system outlined in 
the previous section results in the costs 
to domestic consumers shown in Figure 
4.8. Household spend was calculated 
by using electricity and gas retail prices 
per region; fixed yearly electricity and 
gas cost per region; electricity and gas 
consumption by local authority and 
number of houses per local authority.
The regional map shows that household 
costs, on average, only vary by ~£180 
across GB. Scotland and the South-East 
have the highest prices. However, at local 
authority level, there are variations of over 
£1000 in household energy spending.
The energy spend in central London is very 
low (~£800) whereas on the outskirts into 
the South East the costs can be almost 
twice as high. This is likely related to the 
types of housing in each are, with central 
London featuring smaller flats and terraced 
housing compared to larger detached 
properties of the South East. Low costs 
are also seen in mid-Wales and along 
the East coast of England, particularly in 
Yorkshire and the Humber and the North 
East regions. Wales has a high proportion 
of off-gas grid homes but does not have 
a high penetration of electric heatq. The 
northern regions in England have high 
share of on-gas grid properties and 
therefore benefit from low cost heat.
 
Southern England and 
Scotland spend the most 
on domestic energy.
The difference in average  
local authority spend varies 
by around £1000.
The Highlands and the particularly the 
West coast of Scotland are high energy 
spend regions, which correlates with a 
high level of off-gas grid homes using 
electric and lower average temperatures.
The share of income spent on energy 
increases outside of London, the South 
East and East regions (Figure 4.8). The 
higher income regions spend a smaller 
proportion of their income on energy as the 
difference in energy spend between regions 
is small but the difference in household 
income is much larger. Generally, the energy 
spend as a share of income is higher in 
Scotland than it is for England and Wales.
4.3 Implications for household consumers
p  The average energy spend by local authority was divided 
by the average disposable household income in the local 
authority. Disposable income, in this case, is defined as 
the remaining income after taxes and social payments; it 
is not the amount of income left after bills, rent and 
mortgage payments as it can sometimes be used.
q  The cost of oil and LPG to households is not included in 
these calculations. On average, electric heating is more, 
and gas heating less expensive than oil and LPG. This 
should have only slight effects on the accuracy of the 
average household spend.
Figure 4.8: Average household spend on energy by region and local authority.18,19,20,21,p
 
92 
 
Buildings 
 
 
 
 
Figure 4.8: Average household spend on energy by region and local authority.18,19,20,21,p 
The regional map shows that household costs, on average, only vary by ~£180 
across GB. Scotland and the South-East have the highest prices. However, at local 
authority level, there are variations of over £1000 in household energy spending. 
The energy spend in central London is very low (~£800) whereas on the outskirts 
into the South East the costs can be almost twice as high. This is likely related to 
the types of housing in each are, with central London featuring smaller flats and 
terraced housing compared to larger detached properties of the South East. Low 
costs are also seen in mid-Wales and along the East coast of England, particularly 
in Yorkshire and the Humber and the North East regions. Wales has a high 
proportion of off-gas grid homes but does not have a high penetration of electric 
 
p The average energy spend by local authority was divided by the average disposable household income in the local 
authority. Disposable income, in this case, is defined as the remaining income after taxes and social payments; it is 
not the amount of income left after bills, rent and mortgage payments as it can sometimes be used. 
49
To see what the implications of further 
energy transformations in buildings could 
look like, a future with high low-carbon 
heating uptake was modelledr. It was 
assumed that all ‘standard’ on-gas grid 
homes use gas boilers and all ‘standard’ 
off-gas grid homes, that are not electric 
or biomass already, use oil boilers. There 
is also a carbon price incorporated in 
the future heating costs. The results 
show that low-carbon options can be 
cheaper for off-gas grid homes compared 
to those on gas-grid (Figure 4.9).
A change in average energy spend 
per home by region to 2030 is shown 
in Figure 4.10 for each of the selected 
new low-carbon technologiest. Further 
explanation of the calculation and 
assumptions is detailed in Appendix 3.
In general, a full-switch to a low-carbon 
technology could significantly increase 
energy spend, even with the carbon pricing 
included in these cost estimates (Figure
4.10). This increase ranges from 20% for 
ASHP and biomass technologies to over
70% (and potentially) 100% for GSHP 
and conventional electric technologies.
Overall, ASHP is the cheapest low-
carbon option for all regions under these 
parameters. Biomass is more expensive 
but competitiveness and costs may vary 
regionally. These costs assume that there 
are no efficiency upgrades, keeping the heat 
demand constant. However, the additional 
cost of running electric or other alternative 
heating technologies would benefit from 
energy efficiency upgrades to homes.
 
Large-scale electrification 
of gas and oil heating using 
ASHP could produce regionally 
winners and losers, with 
Scotland and the South
West reducing their energy 
spend by switching.
With a focus on ASHP as the cheapest 
option, Figure 4.11 visualises how the energy 
spend will change by region as the system 
is transformed through removing natural gas 
and oil heating completely, applying carbon 
pricing and electrifying through ASHP.
This gives an indicative view of how energy 
spend will change through technology 
changes. Scotland and South West look 
to benefit from the assumed switching, 
with regions in the north of England being 
worse off. This is mainly due to the current 
level of spend on energy, with northern 
and midland regions of England having 
strong gas-grid connection, providing a 
cheap heating option; the switch to ASHP 
for these regions makes it more expensive. 
In Scotland and the South West, there are 
currently a lot of off-gas grid homes utilising 
oil boilers. The switch to ASHP in these 
regions results in cheaper energy bills, when 
considering carbon pricing up to 2030.
4.3.2 Changes in household energy costs
 
94 
 
Buildings 
 
 
Figure 4.9: The levelised cost of alternative heating systems in 2030 and 2050 relative to gas boilers (left) and oil 
boilers (right).22,s 
A change in average energy spend per home by region to 2030 is shown in Figure 
4.10 for each of the selected new low-carbon technologiest. Further explanation of 
the calculation and assumptions is detailed in Appendix 3. 
 
Figure 4.10: Average change in household energy spend from installing new low-carbon technologies. 0% implies 
no change when moving from a gas boiler. ASHP = Air Source Heat Pump. GSHP = Ground Source Heat Pump. 
 
s The average levelised costs from 2018 to 2030 for each technology were divided by the average levelised cost for 
gas boiler (on-gas grid homes) and oil boilers (off-gas grid homes). 
t All on-gas grid homes and all off-gas grid homes that were not already electric or biomass switching to a low-
carbon technology. The results from these calculations are a theoretical exercise and show the extremes of costs if 
one low-carbon technology is selected. This method does not use systems modelling or any optimisation. 
 
94 
 
Buildings 
 
 
Figure 4.9: The levelised cost of alternative heating systems in 2030 and 2050 relative to gas boilers (left) and oil 
boilers (right).22,s 
A change in average energy spend per home by region to 2030 is shown in Figure 
4.10 for each of the selected new low-carbon technologiest. Further explanation of 
the calculation and assumptions is detailed in Appendix 3. 
 
Figure 4.10: Average change in household energy spend from installing new low-carbon technologies. 0% implies 
no change when moving from a gas boiler. ASHP = Air Source Heat Pump. GSHP = Ground Source Heat Pump. 
 
s The average levelised costs from 2018 to 2030 for each technology were divided by the average levelised cost for 
gas boiler (on-gas grid homes) and oil boilers (off-gas grid homes). 
t All on-gas grid homes and all off-gas grid homes that were not already electric or biomass switching to a low-
carbon technology. The results from these calculations are a theoretical exercise and show the extremes of costs if 
one low-carbon technology is selected. This method does not use systems modelling or any optimisation. 
Figure 4.9: The levelised cost of alternative heating systems in 2030 and 2050 relative to gas boilers (left) and oil boilers (right).22,s
Figure 4.10: Average change in household energy spend from installing new low-carbon technologies. 0% implies no change 
when moving from a gas boiler. ASHP = Air Source Heat Pump. GSHP = Ground Source Heat Pump.
Figure 4.10: Average change in household energy spend from installing new low-carbon technologies. 0% implies no change 
when moving from a gas boiler. ASHP = Air Source Heat Pump. GSHP = Ground Source Heat Pump.
r  The average levelised cost of heating from 2018 to 2030 were taken for each technology for commercial users. It is assumed the relative change in these costs is a sensible indicator of 
domestic household heating costs. The cost includes capital costs, maintenance costs and fuel costs, and a carbon price in line with the CCC pathway for reaching UK climate targets.
s  The average levelised costs from 2018 to 2030 for each technology were divided by the average levelised cost for gas boiler (on-gas grid homes) and oil boilers (off-gas grid homes).
t  All on-gas grid homes and all off-gas grid homes that were not already electric or biomass switching to a lowcarbon technology. The results from these calculations are a theoretical exercise  
and show the extremes of costs if one low-carbon technology is selected. This method does not use systems modelling or any optimisation.
u  Note: this is a simple modelling calculation and the limitations and assumptions used should be carefully considered and understood. It considers extremes in an attempt to spark discussion on 
what potential futures may look like, not to predict the future with any given level of certainty.
50
 
Energising Britain 
 
97 
 
Non-domestic buildings are behind on the reductions needed to be on-track for the 
2030 target. The high level of electrification (see Section 1.3) in non-domestic 
buildings means that direct emissions are relatively low compared to domestic and 
other sectors.  
The reduction of direct non-domestic buildings emissions is not 
on-track to meet 2030 targets. 
Apart from the GHG reduction target, very few targets exist for non-domestic 
buildings. This further reflects the relatively slow progress towards emissions 
reductions in the non-domestic building sector. 
4.4.2 Energy usage in non-domestic buildings 
The current status of energy supply to non-domestic buildings can be seen by using 
electricity and gas meters as a proxyv (Figure 4.13). 
  
Figure 4.13: The number of non-domestic electric and gas meters in each region with the share of solely electric 
properties.23,24 
Non-domestic buildings in South England, Scotland and Wales are more highly 
electrified than the northern regions, meaning the latter’s commercial and public 
 
v It is assumed that: Every building or non-domestic unit has an electric meter; every building with a gas meter 
uses gas for energy services but also uses electricity. i.e. there is no gas-only supply; and there is no sharing of 
meters between buildings. 
sectors are more susceptible to changes in electricity prices. Further electrification 
of this sector would result in direct emissions reductions, however, this would only 
result in overall emission reductions if the power sector carbon intensity targets are 
reached. The cost of this electricity depends on the technologies in the grid mix and 
the supply-demand balance of electricity. Possible rises in electricity costs in the 
future leave the highly electrified regions more open to cost increases. However, if 
strong carbon pricing is implemented the same could happen to the regions with 
low-electrification. 
There is a large proportion of solely electric non-domestic 
buildings, especially in London, the South East and the North West. 
 
Figure 4.14: Final energy consumption in 2016 of Public, Commercial sub-sectors and the total non-domestic 
sector, as a % of total energy consumption by (sub-)sector.25 
There are large proportions of non-domestic buildings without gas meters. 
However, public (yellow) and commercial (red) buildings used as much electricity as 
natural gas in 2016 (43.8% and 43.4% share of primary energy consumption,
 
96 
 
Buildings 
 
 
 
Figure 4.11: Estimated average change in energy spend by region when switching to an air source heat pump.u 
 
4.4 Current status and future targets for non-domestic buildings 
4.4.1 Non-domestic GHG emissions 
 
Figure 4.12: Barometer for direct GHG emissions in Non-domestic buildings.1 ,1,2,3 
 
u Note: this is a simple modelling calculation and the limitations and assumptions used should be carefully 
considered and understood. It considers extremes in an attempt to spark discussion on what potential futures may 
look like, not to predict the future with any given level of certainty. 
Jansen, 
Commen
4.4.1 Non-domestic GHG emissions
Non-domestic buildings are behind on 
the reductions needed to be on-track 
for the 2030 target. The high level of 
electrification (see Section 1.3) in non-
domestic buildings means that direct 
emissions are relatively low compared 
to domestic and other sectors.
 
The reduction of  
direct non-domestic buildings 
emissions is not on-track 
to meet 2030 targets.
4.4.2 Energy usage in  
non-domestic buildings
The current status of energy supply to 
non-domestic buildings can be seen by 
using electricity and gas meters as a proxyv 
(Figure 4.13).
Non-domestic buildings in South England, 
Scotland and Wales are more highly electrified 
than the northern regions, meaning the latter’s 
commercial and public sectors are more 
susceptible to changes in electricity prices. 
Further electrification of this sector would 
result in direct emissions reductions, 
however, this would only result in overall 
emission reductions if the power sector 
carbon intensity targets are reached. The 
cost of this electricity depends on the 
technologies in the grid mix and the 
supply-demand balance of electricity. 
Possible rises in electricity costs in the future 
leave the highly electrified regions more open 
to cost increases. However, if strong carbon 
pricing is implemented the same could 
happen to the regions with low-electrification.
 
There is a large proportion of 
solely electric non-domestic 
buildings, especially in London, 
the South East and the North 
West.
There are large proportions of non-domestic 
buildings without gas meters. However, 
public (yellow) and commercial (red) 
buildings used as much electricity as natural 
gas in 2016 (43.8% and 43.4% share of 
primary energy consumption, respectively). 
This shows that those buildings with access 
to gas have high gas consumption. Public 
buildings used more gas than electricity; the 
opposite is seen in commercial buildings. It 
is assumed that public buildings are in 
general older buildings with lower heating 
efficiencies that are more likely to be 
connected to the gas grid, therefore require 
high gas demands. Commercial buildings 
are more likely to use air conditioning and 
electric heating units to satisfy their heating 
demands. The average for the non-domestic 
sector (orange) varies by application and is 
always between the public and commercial 
share.
Apart from the GHG reduction target, very 
few targets exist for non-domestic buildings. 
This further reflects the relatively slow 
progress towards emissions reductions 
in the non-domestic building sector.
4.4 Current status and future targets 
for non-domestic buildings
v  It is assumed that: Every building or non-domestic unit has an electric meter; every building with a gas meter uses gas for energy services but also uses electricity. i.e. there is no gas-only 
supply; and there is no sharing of meters between buildings.
Figure 4.12: Barometer for direct GHG emissions in Non-domestic buildings.1,2,3
Figure 4.13: The number of non-domestic electric and gas meters in each region with the share of solely electric properties.23,24
Figure 4.14: Final energy consumption in 2016 of Public, Commercial sub-sectors and the total non-domestic sector, as a % of 
total energy consumption by (sub-)sector.25
51
4.4.3 Non-domestic energy efficiency
As with domestic buildings, energy efficiency 
is a key part of impacting the economic and 
climate performance of the non-domestic 
sub-sector, together with the type of 
energy and technologies supplying energy 
services to buildings that were discussed 
above. Currently, 36% of non-domestic 
properties have EPC ratings of at least a 
C. There are no targets or modelling that 
exist for non-domestic energy efficiency 
ratings. So, it is assumed that the energy 
efficiency ratings of non-domestic buildings 
need to reach the same target by 2030, 
and at the same rate, as domestic energy 
efficiency (Figure 4.15). This results in the 
non-domestic energy efficiency target 
being not on-track to reach 2030 targets.
 
Energising Britain 
 
99 
 
4.4.3 Non-domestic energy efficiency 
 
Figure 4.15: Barometer for energy efficiency in non-domestic buildings.26 
As with domestic buildings, energy efficiency is a key part of impacting the 
economic and climate performance of the non-domestic sub-sector, together with 
the type of energy and technologies supplying energy services to buildings that 
were discussed above. Currently, 36% of non-domestic properties have EPC ratings 
of at least a C. There are no targets or modelling that exist for non-domestic 
energy efficiency ratings. So, it is assumed that the energy efficiency ratings of 
non-domestic buildings need to reach the same target by 2030, and at the same 
rate, as domestic energy efficiency (Figure 4.15). This results in the non-domestic 
energy 
efficiency 
target 
being 
not 
on-track 
to 
reach 
2030 
targets.
Figure 4.15: Barometer for energy efficiency in non-domestic buildings.26
52
The characteristics of the regions’ 
commercial composition and the 
energy system can have implications 
on the competitiveness of 
businesses in the region due to 
commercial and public sector 
costs. Spend on energy as a 
proportion of the region’s Gross 
Value Added (GVA) was calculated 
(Figure 4.16)w. All commercial and 
public activities were included in 
the GVA27.
 
The southern regions spend  
a less on energy per economic 
output than northern regions. 
London spends the least and 
Wales spends the most.
In general, the northern regions of 
England and Wales spend more on 
energy per economic output compared 
to Scotland and the southern regions of
England. London has the lowest energy 
spend per GVA in Britain. Business sectors, 
such as financial services, tend to have 
very high GVA outputs with low energy 
spend requirements in office buildings. 
Conversely, non-metropolitan regions 
tend to have less of these high-yield, 
low-energy spend business sectors. 
For example, energy spend per GVA in 
Wales is significantly higher than the rest 
of Britain and is due to low GVA from 
its commercial and public sectors, as 
well as relatively high energy spend.
Comparatively, the North East has the 
smallest commercial and public GVA 
but a lower energy spend than Wales.
These high-energy, low-output regions 
will be more susceptible to changes 
in energy cost, with profit margins of 
the non-domestic commercial building 
occupants, potentially greatly affected.
The region that are most at risk are the 
northern regions of England, the
Midlands and Wales. The future cost of 
energy for non-domestic buildings depends 
on the level of electrification and the effect 
of transformations in the power sector and 
other consuming sectors on electricity 
prices as well as the prices of other fuels.
Increases in the energy efficiency 
of non-domestic buildings and the 
installation of more efficient technologies 
could see a decrease in the energy 
spend in these properties, bringing 
economic benefit to the commercial 
and public entities that use them.
4.5 Implications for business costs  
and competitiveness
Figure 4.16: Change from national average of energy 
spend as a proportion of commercial GVA.
w  Energy spend calculated through same method as  
in domestic household energy spend in Figure 4.8.
53
1  Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy (2018): Final 
UK greenhouse gas emissions national statistics 1990-2016. 
https://www.gov.uk/government/statistics/finaluk-greenhouse-
gas-emissions-national-statistics-1990-2016
2  Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy (2018): 
Provisional UK greenhouseics 2017. https://www.gov.uk/
government/statistics/provisional-ukgreenhouse-gas-emissions-
national-statistics-2017
3  Committee on Climate Change (2015): Fifth Carbon Budget 
Sectoral Analysis. https://www.theccc.org.uk/wp-content/
uploads/2015/11/Sectoral-scenarios-for-the-fifthcarbon-budget-
Committee-on-Climate-Change.pdf
4  Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy (2017): 
Energy Consumption in the UK – table 3.02. https://www.gov.uk/
government/collections/energy-consumptionin-the-uk
5  National Grid (2018): Future Energy Scenarios 2018.  
http://fes.nationalgrid.com/
6  Scottish Government (2018): Using less energy.  
https://www.gov.scot/Topics/Business-Industry/Energy/
make-the-difference/using-less-energy
7  NHBC (2017): New Homes Statistics Annual Review 2017.  
http://www.nhbc.co.uk/cms/publish/consumer/Media-Centre/
Downloads/2017-Annual-Stats.pdf
8  Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy (2018): Fuel 
poverty detailed tables 2018. https://www.gov.uk/government/
statistics/fuel-poverty-detailed-tables-2018
9  Scottish Government (2017): A new definition of fuel poverty in 
Scotland: review of recent evidence. https://beta.gov.scot/
publications/new-definition-fuel-poverty-scotlandreview-recent-
evidence/pages/17/
10  Welsh Government (2016): The Production of Estimated Levels of 
Fuel Poverty in Wales 2012-2016. https://gov.wales/docs/caecd/
research/2016/160711-production-estimatedlevels-fuel-poverty-
wales-2012-2016-en.pdf
11  Property Industry Alliance (2017): Property Data Report 2017. 
https://www.bpf.org.uk/sites/default/files/resources/PIA-
Property-Data-Report-2017.PDF
12  Office for National Statistics (2011): 2011 Census data - Table 
QS415EW. https://www.ons.gov.uk/file?uri=/peoplepopulation 
andcommunity/populationandmigration/populationestimates/
datasets/2011censuskeystatisticsandquickstatisticsforwards 
andoutputareasinenglandandwales/r22ewrttableqs415ewladv1 
_tcm77-296596.xls
13  Committee on Climate Change (2017): ‘UK climate action has 
reduced emissions without increases in household energy bills’. 
https://www.theccc.org.uk/2017/03/16/uk-climateaction-has-
reduced-emissions-without-increases-in-household-energy-
bills/
14  Element Energy, E4tech (2018): Cost analysis of future heat 
infrastructure. https://www.nic.org.uk/publications/cost-analysis-
of-future-heat-infrastructure/
15  Committee on Climate Change (2016): Fifth carbon budget dataset 
- Domestic sheet. https://www.theccc.org.uk/publication/
fifth-carbon-budget-dataset/
16  Ofgem (2018): Domestic Renewable Heat Incentive Quarterly 
Statistics – June 2018.
17  Ofgem (2018): Domestic Renewable Heat Incentive – Annual 
Report (April 2017-March 2018) – July 2018.
18  Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy (2018): 
Average unit costs and fixed costs for gas for GB regions (QEP 
2.3.4). https://www.gov.uk/government/statistical-data-sets/
annual-domestic-energy-pricestatistics
19  Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy (2018): 
Average unit costs and fixed costs for electricity for UK regions 
(QEP 2.2.4). https://www.gov.uk/government/statistical-data-
sets/annual-domestic-energy-pricestatistics
20  Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy (2017): 
Regional and local authority electricity consumption statistics. 
https://www.gov.uk/government/collections/sub-national-
electricity-consumption-data
21  Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy (2017): 
Regional and local authority gas consumption statistics.  
https://www.gov.uk/government/collections/subnational-gas-
consumption-data
22  Committee on Climate Change (2015): Fifth Carbon Budget 
Sectoral Analysis. p70. https://www.theccc.org.uk/wp-content/
uploads/2015/11/Sectoral-scenarios-for-the-fifthcarbon-budget-
Committee-on-Climate-Change.pdf
23  Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy (2017): 
Regional and local authority electricity consumption statistics. 
https://www.gov.uk/government/collections/sub-national-
electricity-consumption-data
24  Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy (2017): 
Regional and local authority gas consumption statistics.  
https://www.gov.uk/government/collections/subnational-gas-
consumption-data
25  Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy (2018): 
Energy Consumption in UK Statistics. https://www.gov.uk/
government/statistics/energy-consumption-in-the-uk
26  Ministry for Housing, Communities and Local Government (2018): 
Live tables on Energy Performance of Buildings Certificates – Table 
A. https://www.gov.uk/government/statistical-data-sets/
live-tables-on-energyperformance-of-buildings-certificates
27  Office for National Statistics (2016): Regional Gross Value Added 
(Income Approach) by Local Authority in the UK.  
https://www.ons.gov.uk/economy/grossvalueaddedgva/
bulletins/regionalgrossvalueaddedincomeapproach/
previousReleases
4.6 References
54
Section 5:  
Energy in 
industry
5.1 Overview
Industry is a difficult sector to 
transform, as there are many 
economic and technological 
barriers and there are no robust 
targets for the industrial sector’s 
energy transition, beyond GHG 
reduction. As a whole, British 
industry has decoupled its 
economic growth from the emission 
of GHGs, currently placing it on 
track to reach climate targets.
Absolute electricity use in industry has 
stayed constant, while its share has 
increased, as processes have been 
electrified and efficiency increases have 
been implemented. The top 10 energy 
consuming industries have varying degrees 
of electrification. At this point, many 
processes have been optimised for cost. 
It is theoretically possible to increase 
electrification but this will increase energy 
costs significantly. This would make 
British industry uncompetitive unless 
carbon pricing revenue is recouped.
North West, Midlands and South East 
are most at risk to losing jobs because 
of automation as these are the most 
industrialised areas in the country. Over 
500,000 jobs are at risk in manufacturing, 
mining and quarrying, water and waste 
(see section 5.3.2), which would have 
significant impacts on the energy 
demand of the industrial sector.
The transition in industry is very much 
economics-led, with the variety of 
industrial processes, business structures 
and international competition making it 
difficult to prescribe targets and blanket 
regulation. There are far fewer targets that 
can be formed into metrics when compared 
with the power, transport and buildings 
sectors. As 35% of the industrial sector’s 
energy corresponds to a third of total 
electricity produced, a substantial increase 
in electrification could have a large effect 
on overall electricity demand, affecting the 
electricity market. There are trends that 
are driving electrification for industry, such 
as automation and pressure from climate 
targets to reduce emissions. However, 
there are also other transformations 
industry can make to reduce its direct 
emissions, such as the implementation of 
carbon capture use and storage (CCUS). 
Therefore, the industrial sector has 
huge potential for change although the 
exact direction is still yet to be seen.
5.2 Current Status
The energy transition in the 
industrial sector is generally more 
complex than in other sectors. 
Some industrial processes are 
very energy intensive, especially 
those that use high temperatures, 
so their decarbonisation is 
difficult because electric power 
does not always make economic 
sense for these applications.
Britain has also seen much of its energy-
intensive industry dwindle, moving to 
other countries where energy is cheaper. 
Final products are increasingly imported, 
with a risk of ‘carbon leakage’a which 
is not considered in this report.
 
Industry is a difficult industry 
to transform, as there 
are many economic and 
technological barriers.
55
GHG emissions in industry have 
approximately halved since 
1990 (Figure 5.1). The mining of 
coal and lignite, petrochemical 
manufacturing and waste services 
have significantly reduced their 
emissions, although this is mainly 
caused by decreases in industrial 
activity in these sectors.
 
Greenhouse gas emissions  
are decoupled from 
economic growth in Britain’s 
industrial sector.
While economic output in industry has 
been increasing since 1990, greenhouse 
gas emissions linked to industry have been 
decreasing. Industrial emissions intensity 
normalised by gross value added (GVA), 
has decreased since 1990 (Figure
5.2) – a decoupling of growth and emissions. 
It is likely that a portion of the decrease 
in emissions was linked to the greening 
of energy use, as energy consumption 
remained relatively stable until 2006, while 
emissions decreased during that time2. The 
subsequent emissions decrease is likely 
due to an interplay of less carbon intensive 
energy use and increased energy efficiency. 
However, despite economic growth from 
1990, changes to the carbon intensity are 
also due to the changing composition of 
industry, with British moving away from 
some more carbon intensive sectors (such as 
steelmaking) to less carbon intensive ones.
 
Industry has seen substantial 
decreases in GHG emissions and 
is on-track to reach 2030 targets. 
This has been achieved by a 
mixture of emission reductions 
measures as well as the relocation 
of industry to other countries.
The CCC Fifth Carbon Budget provides a 
2030 target for industrial emissions at 80
MtCO2e of direct emissions per year. When 
using CCC data to form a 2017 target,
British industry is ahead of schedule in 
abating direct emissions (Figure 5.3)4.
However, this target does not consider 
the emissions associated with electricity 
usage. Therefore, if industry is switching 
its energy consumption from fuels such 
as coal, oil or natural gas to electricity, the 
process is essentially considered to be 
emissions free. It is possible to then say 
that some of the emissions decrease can 
be linked to fuel switching to electricity.
In 2017, the industrial sector emitted 105 
MtCO2e, down from 117 MtCO2e in 2008.
Figure 5.4 illustrates that there has not 
been an absolute increase of electricity 
use in industry, which has remained fairly 
constant since 2002. The complexity of 
industrial change means that electrification 
of industries may be taking place without it 
reflecting in an increase in overall electricity 
consumption. Any efficiency increases 
could also be masking an increase in 
electrification of industry; the high-level data 
available cannot resolve these factorsb.
Whilst there has been a reduction in solid 
fuel use in most other sectors, industry still 
relies upon it for a significant proportion of 
its energy consumption, with solid fuel’s 
absolute energy consumption staying 
relatively constant since 2002. Total 
energy consumption reduced around the 
financial crash and has never recovered, 
signalling that this either caused a transition 
in industrial processes or some of – the 
mainly natural gas and oil consuming 
– industries have closed down.
5.2.1 Industrial sector emissions and energy use
 
Energising Britain 
 
105 
 
5.2.1 Industrial sector emissions and energy use 
GHG emissions in industry have approximately halved since 1990 (Figure 5.1). The 
mining of coal and lignite, petrochemical manufacturing and waste services have 
significantly reduced their emissions, although this is mainly caused by decreases in 
industrial activity in these sectors.  
 
Figure 5.1: GHG emissions from industry 1990-2016.1 
Greenhouse gas emissions are decoupled from  
economic growth in Britain’s industrial sector 
 
106 
 
Industry 
 
While economic output in industry has 
been increasing since 1990, greenhouse 
gas emissions linked to industry have 
been 
decreasing. 
Industrial 
emissions 
intensity normalised by gross value added 
(GVA), has decreased since 1990 (Figure 
5.2) – a decoupling of growth and 
emissions. It is likely that a portion of the 
decrease in emissions was linked to the 
greening 
of 
energy 
use, 
as 
energy 
consumption remained relatively stable 
until 2006, while emissions decreased 
during 
that 
time2. 
The 
subsequent 
emissions decrease is likely due to an 
interplay of less carbon intensive energy 
use 
and 
increased 
energy  
 
 
Figure 5.2: GHG emissions per Gross Value Added.3 
efficiency. However, despite economic growth from 1990, changes to the carbon 
intensity are also a result of the change in composition of industry, with British 
industry moving away from some more carbon intensive industries (such as 
steelmaking) to less carbon intensive ones. 
Industry has seen substantial decreases in GHG emissions and is 
on-track to reach 2030 targets. This has been achieved by a 
mixture of emission reductions measures as well as the relocation 
of industry to other countries 
The CCC Fifth Carbon Budget provides a 2030 target for industrial emissions at 80 
MtCO2e of direct emissions per year. When using CCC data to form a 2017 target, 
British industry is ahead of schedule in abating direct emissions (Figure 5.3)4. 
However, this target does not consider the emissions associated with electricity 
usage. Therefore, if industry is switching its energy consumption from fuels such as 
coal, oil or natural gas to electricity, the process is essentially considered to be 
emissions free. It is possible to then say that some of the emissions decrease can 
be linked to fuel switching to electricity. 
 
Figure 5.3: Barometer of industrial GHG emissions showing progression towards 2030 target. 
In 2017, the industrial sector emitted 105 MtCO2e, down from 117 MtCO2e in 2008. 
Figure 5.4 illustrates that there has not been an absolute increase of electricity use 
in industry, which has remained fairly constant since 2002. The complexity of 
industrial change means that electrification of industries may be taking place 
without it reflecting in an increase in electricity consumption. Any efficiency 
increases could also be masking an increase in electrification of industry; the high-
level data available cannot resolve these factorsb. 
 
Figure 5.4: Consumption by fuel type for industrial sector 2002-2016.5 
Whilst there has been a reduction in solid fuel use in most other sectors, industry 
still relies upon it for a significant proportion of its energy consumption, with solid 
fuel’s absolute energy consumption staying relatively constant since 2002. Total 
energy consumption reduced around the financial crash and has never recovered, 
signalling that this either caused a transition in industrial processes or some of – 
the mainly natural gas and oil consuming
industries have closed down
 
Energising Britain 
 
 
Figure 5.3: Barometer of industrial GHG emissions showing progression towards 2030 target. 
In 2017, the industrial sector emitted 105 MtCO2e, down from 117 MtCO
Figure 5.4 illustrates that there has not been an absolute increase of el
in industry, which has remained fairly constant since 2002. The co
industrial change means that electrification of industries may be t
without it reflecting in an increase in electricity consumption. An
increases could also be masking an increase in electrification of industr
level data available cannot resolve these factorsb. 
Figure 5.4: Consumption by fuel type for industrial sector 2002-2016.5 
Whilst there has been a reduction in solid fuel use in most other secto
still relies upon it for a significant proportion of its energy consumption
fuel’s absolute energy consumption staying relatively constant since 
energy consumption reduced around the financial crash and has never
signalling that this either caused a transition in industrial processes or
the mainly natural gas and oil consuming – industries have closed down
 
b Note the dataset on energy consumption by end-use does not include all UK industries. This is due
data is collected, whereby 6,000 UK industries are asked to provide information on their how they c
electricity. Based on these responses, estimated total consumption for UK industries is calculated. T
industries where data is not collected, there is no relevant dataset that estimates the split between 
consumption. 
 
Energising Britain 
 
107 
 
 
Figure 5.3: Barometer of industrial GHG emissions showing progression towards 2030 target. 
In 2017, the industrial sector emitted 105 MtCO2e, down from 117 MtCO2e in 2008. 
Figure 5.4 illustrates that there has not been an absolute increase of electricity use 
in industry, which has remained fairly constant since 2002. The complexity of 
industrial change means that electrification of industries may be taking place 
without it reflecting in an increase in electricity consumption. Any efficiency 
increases could also be masking an increase in electrification of industry; the high-
level data available cannot resolve these factorsb. 
 
Figure 5.4: Consumption by fuel type for industrial sector 2002-2016.5 
Whilst there has been a reduction in solid fuel use in most other sectors, industry 
still relies upon it for a significant proportion of its energy consumption, with solid 
fuel’s absolute energy consumption staying relatively constant since 2002. Total 
energy consumption reduced around the financial crash and has never recovered, 
signalling that this either caused a transition in industrial processes or some of – 
the mainly natural gas and oil consuming – industries have closed down. 
 
b Note the dataset on energy consumption by end-use does not include all UK industries. This is due to how the 
data is collected, whereby 6,000 UK industries are asked to provide information on their how they consume 
electricity. Based on these responses, estimated total consumption for UK industries is calculated. Therefore, for 
industries where data is not collected, there is no relevant dataset that estimates the split between end-use 
consumption. 
 
Energising Britain 
 
107 
 
 
Figure 5.3: Barometer of industrial GHG emissions showing progression towards 2030 target. 
In 2017, the industrial sector emitted 105 MtCO2e, down from 117 MtCO2e in 2008. 
Figure 5.4 illustrates that there has not been an absolute increase of electricity use 
in industry, which has remained fairly constant since 2002. The complexity of 
industrial change means that electrification of industries may be taking place 
without it reflecting in an increase in electricity consumption. Any efficiency 
increases could also be masking an increase in electrification of industry; the high-
level data available cannot resolve these factorsb. 
 
Figure 5.4: Consumption by fuel type for industrial sector 2002-2016.5 
Whilst there has been a reduction in solid fuel use in most other sectors, industry 
still relies upon it for a significant proportion of its energy consumption, with solid 
fuel’s absolute energy consumption staying relatively constant since 2002. Total 
energy consumption reduced around the financial crash and has never recovered, 
signalling that this either caused a transition in industrial processes or some of – 
the mainly natural gas and oil consuming – industries have closed down. 
 
b Note the dataset on energy consumption by end-use does not include all UK industries. This is due to how the 
data is collected, whereby 6,000 UK industries are asked to provide information on their how they consume 
electricity. Based on these responses, estimated total consumption for UK industries is calculated. Therefore, for 
industries where data is not collected, there is no relevant dataset that estimates the split between end-use 
consumption. 
 
Energising Britain 
 
107 
 
 
Figure 5.3: Barometer of industrial GHG emissions showing progression towards 2030 target. 
In 2017, the industrial sector emitted 105 MtCO2e, down from 117 MtCO2e in 2008. 
Figure 5.4 illustrates that there has not been an absolute increase of electricity use 
in industry, which has remained fairly constant since 2002. The complexity of 
industrial change means that electrification of industries may be taking place 
without it reflecting in an increase in electricity consumption. Any efficiency 
increases could also be masking an increase in electrification of industry; the high-
level data available cannot resolve these factorsb. 
 
Figure 5.4: Consumption by fuel type for industrial sector 2002-2016.5 
Whilst there has been a reduction in solid fuel use in most other sectors, industry 
still relies upon it for a significant proportion of its energy consumption, with solid 
fuel’s absolute energy consumption staying relatively constant since 2002. Total 
energy consumption reduced around the financial crash and has never recovered, 
signalling that this either caused a transition in industrial processes or some of – 
the mainly natural gas and oil consuming – industries have closed down. 
 
b Note the dataset on energy consumption by end-use does not include all UK industries. This is due to how the 
data is collected, whereby 6,000 UK industries are asked to provide information on their how they consume 
electricity. Based on these responses, estimated total consumption for UK industries is calculated. Therefore, for 
industries where data is not collected, there is no relevant dataset that estimates the split between end-use 
consumption.  
Energising Britain 
 
107 
 
 
Figure 5.3: Barometer of industrial GHG emissions showing progression towards 2030 target. 
In 2017, the industrial sector emitted 105 MtCO2e, down from 117 MtCO2e in 2008. 
Figure 5.4 illustrates that there has not been an absolute increase of electricity use 
in industry, which has remained fairly constant since 2002. The complexity of 
industrial change means that electrification of industries may be taking place 
without it reflecting in an increase in electricity consumption. Any efficiency 
increases could also be masking an increase in electrification of industry; the high-
level data available cannot resolve these factorsb. 
 
Figure 5.4: Consumption by fuel type for industrial sector 2002-2016.5 
Whilst there has been a reduction in solid fuel use in most other sectors, industry 
still relies upon it for a significant proportion of its energy consumption, with solid 
fuel’s absolute energy consumption staying relatively constant since 2002. Total 
energy consumption reduced around the financial crash and has never recovered, 
signalling that this either caused a transition in industrial processes or some of – 
the mainly natural gas and oil consuming – industries have closed down. 
 
b Note the dataset on energy consumption by end-use does not include all UK industries. This is due to how the 
data is collected, whereby 6,000 UK industries are asked to provide information on their how they consume 
electricity. Based on these responses, estimated total consumption for UK industries is calculated. Therefore, for 
industries where data is not collected, there is no relevant dataset that estimates the split between end-use 
consumption. 
Figure 5.1: GHG emissions from industry 1990-2016.1
Figure 5.2: GHG emissions per Gross Value Added.3
Figure 5.4: Consumption by fuel type for industrial sector 
2002-2016.5
Figure 5.3: Barometer of industrial GHG emissions showing progression towards 2030 target.
b   Note the dataset on energy consumption by end-use does 
not include all UK industries. This is due to how the data is 
collected, whereby 6,000 UK industries are asked to 
provide information on their how they consume electricity. 
Based on these responses, estimated total consumption 
for UK industries is calculated. Therefore, for industries 
where data is not collected, there is no relevant dataset 
that estimates the split between end-use consumption.
56
The top ten energy consuming industries have a large variety in the 
percentage of electricity usage (Figure 5.5). Each industry will have 
a theoretical maximum electrification potential, due to technological 
barriers as well as system integration barriers (whereby a certain 
process may depend on another process using a certain fuel).
There is regional variation in the 
number of industrial companies 
in Britain, with the North East and 
Wales having the fewest companies 
(Figure 5.6), whereas, the highest 
number are in the South East, West 
Midlands and the North West. 
In general, the number of companies and 
the amount of turnover is linked, although 
some regions perform better than others. 
The northern regions of England (except the 
North East) are much more industrialised 
than the southern regions. The South
East is the only southern region that is above 
the national average on all three metrics. 
Wales and Scotland are both below the 
national averages, although there is a high 
number of jobs in Scotland compared to 
the number of companies and turnover. 
Therefore, changes in industry such as 
automation or continued changes to 
industrial composition to reduce emissions 
would affect the northern regions of
England most strongly.
Fluctuations in energy prices for industry 
could also strongly influence the economies 
of these regions. Significant fluctuations 
may become more common as the energy 
system continues in its transformation.
The manufacture of coke and petroleum 
products and non-metallic mineral 
products have the lowest electrification. 
Some further electrification in these 
sub-sectors, if technologically feasible, 
could help to reduce industrial emissions 
as these are high consuming sectors. 
Similarly, chemical and food production 
electrification would also be beneficial. 
Water services are almost completely 
electrified already, this is due to the 
processes relying mainly on electric pumps.
 
Some of the highest energy 
consuming industrial sub-
sectors have low electricity 
consumption, showing that 
if further electrification could 
be applied it would yield 
large carbon reductions.
5.2.2 The top 10 consuming industries
5.2.3 Industry by region
 
108 
 
Industry 
 
5.2.2 The top 10 consuming industries 
The top ten energy consuming industries have a large variety in the percentage of 
electricity usage (Figure 5.2). Each industry will have a theoretical maximum 
electrification potential, due to technological barriers as well as system integration 
barriers (whereby a certain process may depend on another process using a certain 
fuel). 
 
Figure 5.5: Consumption of top 10 industrial consuming sub-sectors and their penetration of electrification.5 
The manufacture of coke and petroleum products and non-metallic mineral products 
have the lowest electrification. Some further electrification in these sub-sectors, if 
technologically feasible, could help to reduce industrial emissions as these are high 
consuming sectors. Similarly, chemical and food production electrification would 
also be beneficial. Water services are almost completely electrified already, this is 
due to the processes relying mainly on electric pumps. 
Some of the highest energy consuming industrial sub-sectors have 
low electricity consumption, showing that if further electrification 
could be applied it would yield large carbon reductions 
5.2.3 Industry by region 
There is regional variation in the number of industrial companies in Britain, with the 
North East and Wales having the fewest companies (Figure 5.6), whereas, the 
highest number are in the South East, West Midlands and the North West. In 
Figure 5.5: Consumption of top 10 industrial consuming sub-sectors and their penetration of electrification.5
Figure 5.6: Number of industrial jobs, total turnover from industry and number of industrial companies in each GB region.6, c
c Yearly turnover rates for industry are provided in bands (e.g. number of companies by region turning over £0-£49,000 per 
year). The estimate multiplied the number of companies of each band by the middle value of each band, except for the final 
band where the minimum value was selected, as the band is 5000+. The estimated number of jobs in industry in each region is 
estimated in a similar way as yearly turnover rate (i.e. middle value of each band). This means that companies over 5000 may 
have an effect on the accuracy of the data.
57
 
110 
 
Industry 
 
5.3 Implications of a transitioning industrial sector 
5.3.1 Changes in energy cost from increased electrification of industry 
There are some processes that could theoretically be electrified such as space 
heating or drying. The potential cost to industry if fuel consumption for certain end-
use applications were moved from fossil-based fuels to electricity is presented in 
Figure 5.7. This assumes that 1 kWh of electricity can provide the same thermal 
service as 1 kWh of coal, natural gas or oil. Further, it uses 2018 fuel prices7 to 
estimate the additional cost of completely electrifying certain end-use applications 
in industry. The values reflect what the total cost to British industry would be for 
the industries that collect end-use energy consumption data. This, therefore, does 
not reflect a complete cost to industry, but does offer an indication. 
 
 
Figure 5.7: Additional cost of fully 
electrifying industrial processes.8 
Transforming industrial process could 
significantly increase energy costs for 
industry. Support through carbon 
pricing revenues, for example, could 
help to reduce these additional costs 
Any additional capital costs of changing systems 
to electricity were excluded so the analysis only 
includes the additional running costs of the end-
use application. This analysis also ignores 
potential system interplays, whereby certain 
processes may provide inputs to other process 
(e.g. through steam production). Therefore, 
electrifying one end-use application may require 
greater fuel consumption downstream as the 
residual energy may no longer be present. The 
results are shown in Figure 5.7. 
The processes for electrification are ranked in order of assumed ease of 
electrification, with space heating being the easiest and low-temperature processes 
being the most difficult (of the processes considered in Figure 5.7). If space 
heating, drying/separation, low temperature processes and other end-use 
applications in industry are electrified, the annual energy cost approximately 
5.3.1 Changes in energy cost from 
increased electrification of industry
There are some processes that could 
theoretically be electrified such as space 
heating or drying. The potential cost to 
industry if fuel consumption for certain end-
use applications were moved from fossil-
based fuels to electricity is presented in
Figure 5.7. This assumes that 1 kWh of 
electricity can provide the same thermal 
service as 1 kWh of coal, natural gas or oil. 
Further, it uses 2018 fuel prices7 to estimate 
the additional cost of completely electrifying 
certain end-use applications in industry. The 
values reflect what the total cost to British 
industry would be for the industries that 
collect end-use energy consumption data. 
This, therefore, does not reflect a complete 
cost to industry, but does offer an indication.
 
Transforming industrial process 
could significantly increase 
energy costs for industry. Support 
through carbon pricing revenues, 
for example, could help to 
reduce these additional costs.
Any additional capital costs of changing 
systems to electricity were excluded so 
the analysis only includes the additional 
running costs of the end-use application. 
This analysis also ignores potential system 
interplays, whereby certain processes may 
provide inputs to other process (e.g. through 
steam production). Therefore, electrifying 
one end-use application may require greater 
fuel consumption downstream as the 
residual energy may no longer be present. 
The results are shown in Figure 5.7.
The processes for electrification are 
ranked in order of assumed ease of 
electrification, with space heating 
being the easiest and low-temperature 
processes being the most difficult (of 
the processes considered in Figure 5.7). 
If space heating, drying/separation, low 
temperature processes and other end-
use applications in industry are electrified, 
the annual energy cost approximately 
doubles compared to current costs. This is 
linked to low fossil fuel costs compared
to higher electricity costs. However, if 
carbon prices are to increase this could 
reduce the additional running costs of 
an electrified system, if the revenue is 
used to offset the electricity costs.
5.3 Implications of a transitioning 
industrial sector
Figure 5.7: Additional cost of fully electrifying industrial 
processes.8
58
5.3.2 Automation
The trend of automation in industry is a 
highly debated topic. Increased automation 
will have varying regional impacts, 
depending on the relative dependence 
on high risk industries. For example, PwC 
suggests that up to 46% of manufacturing 
jobs are at high risk being automated, as 
are 23% of jobs in mining and quarrying, 
and 63% in waste and water. Figure 5.8 
shows the number of industrial jobs in these 
sectors at risk from automation by region.
 
Automation could aid 
decarbonisation but may cost 
hundreds of thousands of jobs.
The Midlands and northern 
regions are most at risk.
The North West, South East and Midlands 
are at the greatest risk of losing jobs 
to automation due to the prevalence 
of manufacturing, water and waste 
management. London, the North East and
Wales are the least industrialised regions 
and therefore the potential for automation 
removing industrial jobs will have less 
of an impact on these regions.
Outside of the socio-economic implications, 
an increase in industrial automation 
could result in increased overall energy 
consumption, as energy is substituted 
for labour. However, automation is 
largely linked to electrification so the 
carbon intensity of the power sector 
will determine the GHG emissions from 
these automated processes. Whether this 
increases or decreases direct emissions 
from industry depends on what the process 
emissions were before automation.
Figure 5.8: Number of jobs in manufacturing, mining and 
quarrying, water and waste at risk due to automation.9,d
d  These figures are estimated based on the number of current 
jobs in each sector in each region, and what the likely risk 
of automation of these jobs is based on the PwC report 
(referenced above).
59
1  Office of National Statistics (2018): Atmospheric emissions: 
greenhouse gases. https://www.ons.gov.uk/economy/
environmentalaccounts/datasets/ukenvironmentalaccounts 
atmosphericemissionsgreenhousegasemissionsbyeconomics 
ectorandgasunitedkingdom
2  Office of National Statistics (2018): Fuel use by type and industry. 
https://www.ons.gov.uk/economy/environmentalaccounts/
datasets/ukenvironmentalaccountsfuelusebytypeandindustry
3  Office of National Statistics (2016): GDP(0) Low Level Aggregates. 
https://www.ons.gov.uk/economy/grossdomesticproductgdp/
datasets/gdpolowlevelaggregates
4  CCC (2018): Progress Report to Parliament.
5  Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy (2017): 
ECUK: Table 4.04 Table 4.04 Industrial final energy consumption 
by end use (different processes) 2009 to 2016.  
https://www.gov.uk/government/statistics/energy-consumption-
in-the-uk
6  Office of National Statistics (2018): UK Business: Activity, Size and 
Location – 2017. https://www.ons.gov.uk/businessindustryand 
trade/business/activitysizeandlocation/datas ets/ukbusiness 
activitysizeandlocation
7  Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy (2018): 
Table 3.1.2 Prices of fuels purchased by manufacturing industry. 
https://www.gov.uk/government/statistical-datasets/prices-of-
fuels-purchased-by-manufacturing-industry
8  Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy (2017): 
ECUK: Table 4.04 Table 4.04 Industrial final energy consumption 
by end use (different processes) 2009 to 2016. https://www.gov.
uk/government/statistics/energy-consumption-in-the-uk
9  PwC (2017): UK Economic Outlook: 4 – Will robots steal our jobs? 
The potential impact of automation on the UK and other major 
economies. https://www.pwc.co.uk/economicservices/ukeo/
pwcukeo-section-4-automation-march-2017-v2.pdf
5.4 References
60
Section 6: 
Regional 
implications
The regional barometers in each 
section of this report have shown 
the status of Britain’s regions in 
transforming and future-proofing 
their energy systems. These results 
have been summarised for each 
region in Figure 6.1. The same 
methodology is used for the regions 
as is used for each sector: counting 
the number of metrics which are 
pushing ahead, within 90% of the 
target, or not on track. The following 
sections summarise the progress 
and impacts of transforming 
each region’s energy system.
The sections below are ordered based 
on the ranking of how well each region is 
progressing. The data required to build a 
regional indication of the industrial sector 
was not available, thus industry is excluded 
from this chapter. This does not mean there 
are not specific regional impacts that come 
from transforming the energy supplied to 
Britain’s industry, for example the vehicle 
manufacturing in the West Midlands or the 
energyintensive industry in Tees Valley.
In Sections 3 and 4, this report calculates 
the total cost of ownership of modern 
electric vehicle and heating technologies, 
and the gap between them and their 
conventional counterparts. Figure 6.2 
combines these to give the total additional 
cost a household in each region could 
expect to face for electrifying their heating 
and upgrading to an electric vehicle.
In Sections 3 and 4, this report calculates 
the total cost of ownership of modern 
electric vehicle and heating technologies, 
and the gap between them and their 
 
114 
 
Regional implications 
 
6 Section 6: Regional implications 
 
The regional barometers in each section have shown the status of each region in 
meeting their target. These have been summarised for each region in Figure 6.1. 
The same methodology is used for the regions as is used for each sector: counting 
the targets on track, within 90% on track and not on track. The following section 
summarises the impact of transformation on each region. The sections below occur 
based on the ranking of how on track the region is in its transformation, with the 
most on track first. The data required to build a regionalised indication of the 
industrial sector was not available, thus industry is excluded from this chapter. This 
does not mean there is not a specific impact that comes from the industrial energy 
sector, for example the vehicle manufacturing in the West Midlands or the 
energy-intensive industry in Tees Valley. 
 
Figure 6.1: Overall indicator for how transformed the energy system is in Britain’s regions. 
 
Additional cost per year  
per household
London
West Midlands
South West
South East
Yorkshire
East
Scotland
East Midlands
North East
North West
Wales
Gas/oil boiler    Air source heat pump  
Petrol/diesel    Battery electric vehicle  
£200
£0
£400
£600
£800
£1,000
£1,200
Figure 6.1: Overall indicator for how transformed the energy system is in Britain’s regions.
Figure 6.2: The annual additional 
cost of electrifying heat and transport 
in each region, measured as the 
total cost of ownership (TCO) gap 
between electric and conventional 
technologies. For heating, the cost 
is based on conversion from gas 
boilers where possible, and from oil 
boilers in homes off the gas grid.  
For vehicles, the cost is based on 
conversion from the regional share 
of petrol and diesel vehicles.
conventional counterparts. Figure 6.2 
combines these to give the total additional 
cost a household in each region could 
expect to face for electrifying their heating 
and upgrading to an electric vehicle.
London stands apart from other regions 
because the unique characteristics of its 
transport networks (the Congestion Charge, 
and people driving fewer miles per year) 
mean the lifetime cost of owning an electric 
vehicle is on par with petrol already. In all 
other regions, there is still an appreciable 
cost barrier to uptake of electric vehicles.
Outside of London, there is a 30% spread 
in the cost gap, which ranges from an 
extra £840 per year in the West Midlands 
up to £1,100 per year in Wales. The 
regions which face smaller additional 
costs from electrification are generally 
those in the top half of the progress league 
table (Figure 6.1), and those with the 
highest costs are generally falling behind. 
This shows that the individual regional 
characteristics, especially socio-economic 
factors, are critical to the fair and equitable 
transformation of Britain’s energy system.
61
London has progressed the most  
of all Britain’s regions in terms of 
energy transition. A strong driver in 
the region is the electrification of 
transport. London’s power system 
is characterised by having no large 
generators. The urbanised nature 
allows for solar photovoltaics, 
although uptake is low at present.
As London does not expect growth in 
generation capacity, the power grid does not 
need to be expanded at regional borders, but 
reinforcement may well be necessary on lower 
voltage levels within the region to account for 
electric vehicles. Overall the region is driven 
and characterised by its energy consumption 
and not generation.
London has relatively high EPC ratings, 
although not as high as Scotland and the 
East, and has the lowest levels of F and G 
ratings. London is midrange in terms of fuel 
poverty, but high when compared to 
surrounding regions. This is most likely due 
to the demographic and socioeconomic 
structure of the southern regions. The 
housing structure has a higher electric 
heating rate than the rest of the country, due 
to the high proportion of electric heating for 
off-gas grid homes. Despite this, there are 
very few low-carbon heating installations in 
London.
With the transport sector, London shows the 
greatest decrease in absolute and relative 
emissions. This is likely related to efficiency 
gains in public transport, increases in active 
travel and decreases in road kilometres 
driven. In London, where public transport, 
walking and cycling make up a greater share 
of the modal split, the emissions per person 
from transport is about 1 tonne of CO2e per 
year. In every other region, commuting by 
private car dominates, and so residents emit 
1.5 to 2.5 times that of Londoners.
London has the highest number of electric 
charging points. Hydrogen refuelling stations 
are even more strongly clustered within 
London; fewer than half of the stations are 
outside the capital. The region has the 
greatest number of ultra-low emission buses 
as TfL’s commitment to electric and hybrid 
buses has led to rapid uptake. Air quality 
issues are one of the main drivers of this 
development. London has seen the greatest 
increase in the number of electric/hydrogen 
buses, with an over 15-fold increase 
between 2013 and 2018. Overall, London 
has the lowest emissions from diesel usage 
in rail, due to higher rail electrification in the 
area. London as the only purely-urban region 
has by far the greatest number of bus stops 
per square kilometre, allowing for a modal 
share that is not dominated by private cars. 
This allows London to transition faster and 
more effectively, which will reduce travel 
costs in future.
The average distance driven by each vehicle 
is substantially lower in London than any 
other region, thus giving London the lowest 
total cost of ownership. London’s Congestion 
Charge – an additional tax – is not applicable 
to plug-in and hybrid vehicles, giving a 
substantial incentive for electric vehicles. TfL 
report that an average vehicle makes 8 trips 
vehicle per year into the congestion charge 
zone (assumed in this study); however, if 
a vehicle were to travel every working day 
into the zone, this could increase the cost 
of petrol and diesel cars by up to £3,000 
per year, which would further improve the 
total cost of ownership for plug-in vehicles 
in comparison. London is the only region 
in Britain where total cost of ownership for 
battery-electric vehicles is lower than petrol 
or diesel. London has a low ratio of number 
of EVs per available charging point, linked 
to having a higher proportion of EV chargers 
and/or a smaller (absolute) number of EVs.
It is clear that railway spend was focused 
on London, receiving almost 45% of the 
combined funds from national government, 
local authorities and private organisations. 
Further, almost a third of central government 
railway spend went to London, which 
alone is greater than the spending from 
all sources in any of the other regions. 
Interestingly, spending correlates to the 
share of electrified network within the 
regions, putting London, South East, 
North West and Scotland at the top.
The additional cost of using a heat pump 
and electric vehicle amounts to ~£60 per 
year in London. This is mainly driven by 
the additional cost of in electric heating, 
as opposed to other regions where the 
cost increase in driven mostly by the 
6.1 London
 
Energising Britain 
 
115 
 
 
6.1 London 
 
London has progressed the most of all Britain’s regions in terms of energy 
transition. A strong driver in the region is the electrification of transport. London’s 
power system is characterised by having no large generators. The urbanised nature 
allows for solar photovoltaics, although uptake is low at present. As London does 
not expect growth in generation capacity, the power grid does not need to be 
expanded at regional borders, but reinforcement may well be necessary on lower 
voltage levels within the region to account for electric vehicles. Overall the region is 
driven and characterised by its energy consumption and not generation. 
London has relatively high EPC ratings, although not as high as Scotland and the 
East, and has the lowest levels of F and G ratings. London is midrange in terms of 
fuel poverty, but high when compared to surrounding regions. This is most likely 
due to the demographic and socio-economic structure of the southern regions. The 
housing structure has a higher electric heating rate than the rest of the country, 
due to the high proportion of electric heating for off-gas grid homes. Despite this, 
there are very few low-carbon heating installations in London. 
With the transport sector, London shows the greatest decrease in absolute and 
relative emissions. This is likely related to efficiency gains in public transport, 
increases in active travel and decreases in road kilometres driven. In London, 
where public transport, walking and cycling make up a greater share of the modal 
split, the emissions per person from transport is about 1 tonne of CO2e per year. In 
every other region, commuting by private car dominates, and so residents emit 1.5 
to 2.5 times that of Londoners. 
London has the highest number of electric charging points. Hydrogen refuelling 
stations is even more strongly clustered within London; fewer than half of stations 
are outside the capital. The region has the greatest number of ultra-low emission 
buses as TfL’s commitment to electric and hybrid buses has led to rapid uptake. Air 
quality issues are one of the main drivers of this development. London has seen the 
greatest increase in the number of electric/hydrogen buses, with an over 15-fold 
increase between 2013 and 2018. Overall, London has the lowest emissions from 
increased BEV costs. London is on the cusp 
of having modern electric technologies 
reach cost parity with incumbent fossil 
fuels.  The additional costs in London are 
substantially lower than in any other region.
62
The Scottish energy system really 
stands out from the other regions. It 
is leading in several areas and acts 
as an example for the energy 
transition to come in other regions. 
Scotland has fully met half of the 
targets laid out in this report, joint 
first with London.
Scotland has the highest installed power 
station capacity, as well as the highest share 
of renewables of all regions. Onshore wind 
power dominates the generation mix, as this 
region offers an exceptionally good wind 
resource and low population density. The 
large increase in wind power generation has 
offset the phase-out of coal and gas, and 
the future closure of nuclear power. The wind 
industry enables Scotland to generate new 
employment and create an alternative for the 
oil and gas industry. Scotland has the largest 
number of jobs in renewables of all regions 
with the potential to continue growing as the 
transition continues.
However, more recently political 
uncertainties about the future of onshore 
wind have arisen, which may stop economic 
development in that area. Simultaneously, 
there is considerable uncertainty for potential 
future nuclear power plants, as these 
would increase the grid congestion already 
prevalent in Scotland. The siting of wind 
turbines at the best wind resource locations 
does not coincide with pre-existing location 
of the grid, which was built out many 
decades ago and not designed to cope 
with large amounts of wind power. Locally 
congested electricity from wind power 
can lead to opportunities for local smart 
energy solutions and sector couplinga of the 
electricity, transport and industrial sector.
On the buildings side, Scotland has a 
relatively energy-efficient building stock with 
the highest proportion of EPC ratings above 
C. At the same time, a relatively high 
proportion of households live in fuel poverty: 
11.8% using the English low income high 
cost (LIHC) method. One reason for that 
might be due to Scotland having the highest 
proportion of electric heat (12.2%) with 
Highlands reaching 20–25%. This 
corresponds to similar proportions of off-gas 
grid properties in these areas. 55% of
Scotland’s off-gas grid homes are electric, 
the highest proportion in Britain. The 
average energy spend is second-largest in 
Scotland (largest in South East), with some 
areas spending £600 more per year when 
compared to British average. The average 
Scot is spending approximately 3% of 
disposable income on energy. This situation 
has been identified, and led to the largest 
deployment of efficient and low-carbon 
heating (0.52%, or 12,300 units). This aims 
to address both climate change and fuel 
poverty issues by increasing efficiency, 
which makes Scots likely to be better off in 
the future. However, this strongly depends 
on the technology the fuel poor homes are 
changing from and the energy efficiency of 
the homes. The economic decision to not 
build a gas grid has affected consumers 
negatively and raises questions on possible 
future de-carbonisation using hydrogen. If 
heating was changed through the installation 
of air-sourced heat pumps in the on-gas grid 
homes and off-gas grid homes (that are not 
already electric or biomass) change in energy 
spend would decrease by 3.3% in Scotland 
or £35 by 2030. This is a very small change 
in proportion of average household income.
In the transport sector Scotland has the 
second highest number of electric charging 
points, only London has more electric 
vehicle charging points. London, Scotland 
and the South East have more than half of 
Britain’s charging points between them. At 
the same time Scotland has a low ratio of 
EVs per available charging point, linked to 
having a higher proportion of EV chargers 
and/or a smaller (absolute) number of EVs. 
This means Scotland’s infrastructure is ready 
for greater EV uptake. Scotland is also 
second to London in the number of electric/
hydrogen buses with an almost 6-fold 
increase between 2013 and 2018 and 
amongst the leaders in the proportion of
Heavy Good Vehicles (HGVs) that are already 
electrified or using hydrogen. Regardless of 
vehicle type, the total cost of ownership is 
highest in Scotland (and Wales), while it is 
the lowest in London. This may be affecting 
the EV uptake in the region. Regionally for 
battery-electric vehicles and Plug-in hybrid 
electric vehicles, Wales, Scotland and the 
North East face the greatest financial burden 
when owning a vehicle.
6.2 Scotland
 
Energising Britain 
 
117 
 
6.2 Scotland 
 
The Scottish energy system really stands out from the other regions. It is leading in 
several areas and acts as an example for the energy transition to come in other 
regions. Scotland has fully met half of the targets laid out in this report, joint first 
with London. 
Scotland has the highest installed power station capacity, as well as the highest 
share of renewables of all regions. Onshore wind power dominates the generation 
mix, as this region offers an exceptionally good wind resource and low population 
density. The large increase in wind power generation has offset the phase-out of 
coal and gas, and the future closure of nuclear power. The wind industry enables 
Scotland to generate new employment and create an alternative for the oil and gas 
industry. Scotland has the largest number of jobs in renewables of all regions with 
the potential to continue growing as the transition continues. 
However, more recently political uncertainties about the future of onshore wind 
have arisen, which may stop economic development in that area. Simultaneously, 
there is considerable uncertainty for potential future nuclear power plants, as these 
would increase the grid congestion already prevalent in Scotland. The siting of wind 
turbines at the best wind resource locations does not coincide with pre-existing 
location of the grid, which was built out many decades ago. Locally congested 
electricity from wind power can lead to opportunities for local smart energy 
solutions and sector couplinga of the electricity, transport and industrial sector. 
On the buildings side, Scotland has a relatively energy-efficient building stock with 
the highest proportion of EPC ratings above C. At the same time, a relatively high 
proportion of households live in fuel poverty: 11.8% using the English low income 
high cost (LIHC) method. One reason for that might be due to Scotland having the 
highest proportion of electric heat (12.2%) with Highlands reaching 20–25%. This 
corresponds to similar proportions of off-gas grid properties in these areas. 55% of 
Scotland’s off-gas grid homes are electric, the highest proportion in Britain. The 
average energy spend is largest in Scotland (second to South East), with some 
areas spending £600 more per year when compared to British average. The 
 
a Sector coupling is the interaction between different energy sectors, where e.g. electricity is used to regenerate 
heat or produce hydrogen for use in transport. 
a  Sector coupling is the interaction between different energy 
sectors, where e.g. electricity is used to regenerate heat or 
produce hydrogen for use in transport.
The additional cost of using a heat pump 
and electric vehicle equates to ~£990 per 
year in Scotland. This is driven solely by the 
additional cost of BEVs compared to fossil 
fuelled vehicles, as we project a small saving 
from switching to ASHP in Scotland, related 
to the high off gas grid housing stock. 
Compared to other regions, Scotland has 
the 5th highest additional costs.
63
The east of England is the third 
most transformed region in 
Britain. A five-fold increase in grid 
capacity is needed for transporting 
electricity from offshore wind 
farms to load centres inland. The 
building of offshore wind farms 
will contribute significantly to the 
region’s economy, whilst at the 
same time reducing the overall 
transmission length by being 
close to London. The subsequent 
increase in employment will have 
a significant impact on the local 
economy with building of supply 
chains around the industry.
The South West is ranked joint 
fourth when compared to the rest 
of Britain. However, this part of the 
country faces particular challenges. 
The South West is characterised by 
its weak electrical connection and 
remoteness, relatively speaking.
Grid congestion is already 
present and hinders the further 
installation of solar photovoltaics.
The reductions in feed-tariffs for solar PV 
has affected the region negatively. It is to 
be expected that this region will be one of 
the first to restart the solar boom once the 
technology can support itself ‘subsidy free’ 
– due to its relatively good solar resource, 
compared to the rest of the country.
The buildings have a relatively high rate 
of EPC ratings of C and above but also a 
substantial share F and G rated buildings 
(7.4%). It sees higher fuel poverty than 
other southern regions, although still 
midrange. This is certainly due to having 
The EPC ratings are second highest 
in this part of the country. The same 
goes for residential fuel poverty rates. 
The southern regions effect means that 
electric heating rates are higher than 
on average. All of these factors mean 
that the region has an advantageous 
starting point for the energy transition.
Regionally, the West Midlands and the East 
of England are leading the EV uptake. At 
the same time the charging point density 
is low for the number of vehicles on the 
road, a consequence of the successful EV 
roll-out. The current situation indicates that 
innovation around smart charging could 
happen here, especially when EVs are 
combined with the future of offshore wind 
power for balancing services. This could lead 
to significant cost saving for this region.
the highest electric heating rate outside 
of Scotland and the highest number of 
off-gas grid properties and the second 
most low-carbon heating installations.
Whilst the South West has a relatively large 
number of EV charging points, there has 
been a small uptake of EVs compared 
to the other southern regions. This has 
resulted in a relatively high proportion of 
chargers relative to EVs. The gap in total 
cost of ownership for EVs in the South 
West is similar to that of the other southern 
regions but its lower average household 
income could be stopping the deployment 
of these vehicles. For other low-carbon 
transport like buses and HGVs, the South
West is lagging behind its targets.
The South West is among the regions with 
the lowest additional costs (3rd lowest) 
associated with electrification of heating  
and transport. This amounts to ~£845 per 
year, which is entirely from the additional cost 
of BEV ownership. In fact, as with Scotland, 
6.3 East of England
6.4 South West
 
Energising Britain 
 
119 
 
6.3 East of England 
 
The east of England is the third most transformed region in Britain. A five-fold 
increase in grid capacity is needed for transporting electricity from offshore wind 
farms to load centres inland. The building of offshore wind farms will contribute 
significantly to the region’s economy, whilst at the same time reducing the overall 
transmission length by being close to London. The subsequent increase in 
employment will have a significant impact on the local economy with building of 
supply chains around the industry. 
The EPC ratings are second highest in this part of the country. The same goes for 
residential fuel poverty rates. The southern regions effect means that electric 
heating rates are higher than on average. All of these factors mean that the region 
has an advantageous starting point for the energy transition. 
Regionally, the West Midlands and the East of England are leading the EV uptake. 
At the same time the charging point density is low for the number of vehicles on 
the road, a consequence of the successful EV roll-out. The current situation 
indicates that innovation around smart charging could happen here, especially when 
EVs are combined with the future of offshore wind power for balancing services. 
This could lead to significant cost saving for this region. 
The additional cost of having an ASHP and owning a BEV is equivalent to ~£970 per 
year in the East of England. As with most regions, this cost is mostly related to the 
additional cost of BEVs compared to fossil fuelled ones, with ASHP accounting for 
less than £50 of the total additional costs. As compared to other regions, the East 
has the 6th highest additional costs.  
6.4 South West 
 
The South West is ranked joint third when compared to the rest of Britain. 
However, this part of the country faces particular challenges. The South West is 
 
Energising Britain 
 
119 
 
6.3 East of England 
 
The east of England is the third most transformed region in Britain. A five-fold 
increase in grid capacity is needed for transporting electricity from offshore wind 
farms to load centres inland. The building of offshore wind farms will contribute 
significantly to the region’s economy, whilst at the same time reducing the overall 
transmission length by being close to London. The subsequent increase in 
employment will have a significant impact on the local economy with building of 
supply chains around the industry. 
The EPC ratings are second highest in this part of the country. The same goes for 
residential fuel poverty rates. The southern regions effect means that electric 
heating rates are higher than on average. All of these factors mean that the region 
has an advantageous starting point for the energy transition. 
Regionally, the West Midlands and the East of England are leading the EV uptake. 
At the same time the charging point density is low for the number of vehicles on 
the road, a consequence of the successful EV roll-out. The current situation 
indicates that innovation around smart charging could happen here, especially when 
EVs are combined with the future of offshore wind power for balancing services. 
This could lead to significant cost saving for this region. 
The additional cost of having an ASHP and owning a BEV is equivalent to ~£970 per 
year in the East of England. As with most regions, this cost is mostly related to the 
additional cost of BEVs compared to fossil fuelled ones, with ASHP accounting for 
less than £50 of the total additional costs. As compared to other regions, the East 
has the 6th highest additional costs.  
6.4 South West 
 
The South West is ranked joint third when compared to the rest of Britain. 
However, this part of the country faces particular challenges. The South West is 
The additional cost of having an ASHP and 
owning a BEV is equivalent to ~£970 per 
year in the East of England. As with most 
regions, this cost is mostly related to the 
additional cost of BEVs compared to fossil 
fuelled ones, with ASHP accounting for 
less than £50 of the total additional costs. 
As compared to other regions, the East 
has the 6th highest additional costs.
there is a benefit to switching heating  
to ASHP, which is again related to the 
high off gas grid household stock.
64
The South East of England is 
ranked joint fourth. The region 
has faced grid congestion in 
the past and the installation of 
almost 2 GW of photovoltaics 
has exacerbated the situation. 
In response, the region has seen the 
largest storage capacity for new storage 
(i.e. not pumped-hydro). The storage is 
used for grid balancing and innovative 
approaches to load flow management by 
the local distribution network to alleviate 
grid congestion. This will benefit consumers, 
as their bills will be lower than what they 
could have been without these measures.
The South East has the lowest EPC 
ratings of the southern regions but it is still 
The West Midlands ranks as the 
sixth most transformed region, 
placing it in the middle of Britain’s 
league table. The power sector 
in this region is changing most 
drastically of all regions. It has 
become a large importer of 
electricity in recent years due to 
the retirement of conventional 
generation and very little uptake 
of renewable capacity. 
This means that the region is decoupled 
from the economic activity of the energy 
sector in Britain and has no value creation 
and jobs from electricity generation. In 
future this will make the region worse 
off in terms of electricity generation 
than it was just a few years ago.
relatively high when to compared to the 
national average. Fuel poverty is lowest in 
the country despite having more houses 
off the gas grid the highest energy bills 
per household in Britain. This is mainly 
due to socioeconomic factors and milder 
winters. This should enable consumers and 
businesses alike to invest in new technologies 
and exploit the gains in the future.
The South East is amongst the regions 
with the highest number of EV charging 
points. It has high car ownership and private 
transport is the main mode of commuting. 
Therefore, there is potential to see large 
emission decreases through a modal shift or 
continued electrification of private transport. 
The region leads on the proportion and 
absolute numbers of HGVs that are already 
electrified or use hydrogen. The emissions 
The region is midrange for most buildings’ 
metrics, for example in EPC ratings, but 
had the highest fuel poverty rates between 
2012 and 2016, despite low electric heating 
rates. The combination of imported electricity 
and high fuel poverty rates means that 
there may be a challenge in the future.
On the upside, the West Midlands is leading 
with EV penetration at 0.52% of the car 
fleet. This growth is likely to be linked to 
the automotive industry that is present in 
the region and the fact that the total cost 
of ownership is the lowest in this region 
when compared to the rest of the Britain, 
except for London. The uptake of electric 
vehicles has also led to a higher EV to 
charging point ratio, suggesting greater 
competition for charging in the future. In fact, 
the regions performance on electric vehicles 
secures its position in the mid-range.
6.5 South East
6.6 West Midlands
 
120 
 
Regional implications 
 
additional cost of BEV ownership. In fact, as with Scotland, there is a benefit to 
switching heating to ASHP, which is again related to the high off gas grid household 
stock.  
6.5 South East 
 
The South East of England is ranked fifth. The region has faced grid congestion in 
the past and the installation of almost 2 GW of photovoltaics has exacerbated the 
situation. In response, the region has seen the largest storage capacity for new 
storage (i.e. not pumped-hydro). The storage is used for grid balancing and load 
flow management by the local distribution network. Innovative approaches have 
been implemented to make better use of the existing infrastructure, e.g. the use of 
 
Energising Britain 
 
121 
 
storage to alleviate grid congestion. This will benefit consumers, as their bills will be 
lower than what they could have been without these measures. 
The South East has the lowest EPC ratings of the southern regions but it is still 
relatively high when to compared to the national average. Fuel poverty is lowest in 
country despite higher electric heating rates and having the highest energy bills per 
household in Britain. This is mainly due to socio-economic factors outrunning fuel 
costs. This should enable consumers and businesses alike to invest in new 
technologies and exploit the gains in the future. 
The South East is amongst the regions with the highest number of EV charging 
points. It has high car ownership and private transport is the main mode of 
commuting. Therefore, there is large potential to see large emission decreases 
through a modal shift or continued electrification of private transport. The region 
leads on the proportion and absolute numbers of HGVs that are already electrified 
or use hydrogen. The emissions due to diesel usage in rail are highest in the South 
East despite high electrification of rail and lowest spend per passenger journey. It is 
suspected that the large volume of journeys are the cause of this. 
The South East has projected additional cost of electrifying heating and transport, 
with ASHP and BEVs respectively, of ~£940 per year, making it one of the regions 
with the lowest additional costs. As with other regions, this is mostly related to the 
additional cost of BEV ownership, which accounts for ~£860 of the additional yearly 
cost.  
6.6 West Midlands 
 
The West Midlands ranks as the sixth most transformed region. The power sector in 
this region is changing most drastically of all regions. It has become a large 
importer of electricity in recent years due to the retirement of conventional 
generation and very little uptake of renewable capacity . This means that the region 
is decoupled from the economic activity of the energy sector in Britain and has no 
value creation and jobs from electricity generation. In future this will make the 
region worse off in terms of electricity generation than it was just a few years ago. 
The region is midrange for most buildings’ metrics, for example in EPC ratings, but 
had the highest fuel poverty rates between 2012 and 2016, despite low electric 
due to diesel usage in rail are highest in 
the South East despite high electrification 
of rail and lowest spend per passenger 
journey. It is suspected that the large 
volume of journeys are the cause of this.
The South East has projected additional 
cost of electrifying heating and transport 
of ~£940 per year, the 4th lowest among 
Britain’s regions. As with other regions, 
this is mostly related to the additional 
cost of BEV ownership, which accounts 
for ~£860 of the additional yearly cost. 
The West Midlands has the 2nd lowest 
additional cost associated with heating 
and transport electrification, behind 
London.  The total yearly cost of ~£840 
is primarily due to BEV ownership 
(~£760), while the additional yearly cost 
of ASHP heating amounts to ~£85.
65
The Welsh power system can be 
characterised by its large pumped-
hydro storage capacity and a 
number of gas-fired power stations 
in the south. Wales has by far the 
highest rate of smart meter roll-
out of all regions. This will enable 
consumers in Wales to become 
one of the first regions to profit 
from the potential benefits, such 
as demand response activities.
However, this may be offset by the low 
income in the region which makes it less 
likely that the necessary investment (such 
as electric vehicles and heat pumps) 
is undertaken on a large scale, unless 
specific support schemes are provided. 
This means Wales may miss out on 
the benefits of its smart meter rollout 
in the future whilst it has to burden the 
cost of rolling out millions of meters.
The East Midlands is ranked joint 
eighth in the regional comparison. 
The power system continues to 
host a large coal and gas capacity, 
as well as a significant renewable 
and electricity storage capacity. 
Currently, the region has the second 
highest transmission capacity of all 
regions. However, a smaller growth 
rate compared to other regions 
further north could see the East 
Midlands lose this second-place 
ranking. The growth in renewables 
and existing transmission 
capacity places the region at a 
good starting point to undergo 
an electricity transformation.
The Welsh housing stock is among the least 
efficient in Britain. It has one of the lowest 
regional proportions of EPC ratings above 
C and with 9% of EPC ratings in the F and 
G category. This means that electrification 
of heating could increase overall energy 
costs. This would negatively affect the region 
economically and could increase fuel poverty, 
where it currently holds a midrange position.
Wales has the lowest EV penetration and the 
fewest charging points, with only 3% of all the 
chargers being in Wales. This is induced by 
the more rural setting than other regions and 
higher driving distances. The region will miss 
out on the benefits of electric vehicles and 
could pay a higher price for electrification. 
Wales has a single electric bus running 
in Cardiff, which exemplifies the current 
situation. Wales has the lowest (joint with 
East Midlands) number of ultra-low emission 
HGVs and faces the greatest financial burden 
The East Midlands has the second greatest 
absolute number and the greatest penetration 
of ultra-low emission buses into their fleet. 
In the East Midlands, the city of Nottingham 
has been an early adopter of electric buses, 
having recently purchased a further 13 battery 
electric buses to join the current 45. The East
Midlands have the lowest number of 
ultra-low emission HGVs. Despite positive 
movement in the transport sector, there is 
still considerable changes required to ensure 
a transformation of the transport sector.
The East Midlands have one of the highest 
proportions of F and G rated buildings, 
resulting in part in high fuel poverty rates. 
Electric heating uptake is low in buildings. 
Considerable support is required to ensure 
that both the energy transformation in 
buildings can occur alongside other regions 
and that vulnerable consumers will not 
be significantly financially affected.
6.7 Wales
6.8 East Midlands
 
122 
 
Regional implications 
 
heating and transport electrification, through ASHP and BEV use respectively, with 
a total yearly cost of ~£840. The additional yearly cost of BEV ownership amounts 
to ~£760, whereas the additional yearly cost of ASHP amounts to ~£85.  
6.7 Wales 
 
The Welsh power system can be characterised by its large pumped-hydro storage 
capacity and a number of gas-fired power stations in the south. Wales has by far 
the highest rate of smart meter roll-out of all regions . This will enable consumers 
in Wales to become one of the first regions to profit from the potential benefits, 
such as demand response activities. However, this may be offset by the low income 
in the region which makes it less likely that the necessary investment (such as 
electric vehicles and heat pumps) is undertaken on a large scale, unless specific 
support schemes are provided. This means Wales may miss out on the benefits of 
its smart meter rollout in the future whilst it has to burden the cost of rolling out 
millions of meters. 
The Welsh housing stock is among the least efficient in Britain.  It has one of the 
lowest regional proportions of EPC ratings above C and with 9% of EPC ratings in 
the F and G category. This means that electrification of heating could increase 
overall energy costs. This would negatively affect the region economically and could 
increase fuel poverty, where it currently holds a midrange position. 
Wales has the smallest EV penetration, which is likely linked to the region having 
the fewest charging points with only 3% of all the chargers being in Wales. With a 
 
Energising Britain 
 
123 
 
more rural setting than other regions and higher driving distances, the region will 
miss out on the benefits of electric vehicles and could pay a higher price for 
electrification. Wales has a single electric bus running in Cardiff, which exemplifies 
the current situation. Wales has the lowest (joint with East Midlands) number of 
ultra-low emission HGVs and faces the greatest financial burden for battery-electric 
vehicles and plug-in hybrid electric vehicles. When normalised by the total number 
of journeys taken in that same year, Wales is amongst the highest investment 
spend per journey on rail and much higher than the South East of England (i.e. 
regions East, South East and London). This seems to correlate with the limited 
electrification in rail and reduces the chances of carbon emissions reduction through 
a modal shift in the transport sector. 
Wales, out of all the regions, has the greatest cost associated with transitioning to 
ASHP heating and BEV private passenger transport. The yearly additional cost 
amounts to ~£1,100, with ~£1,040 related to the increased cost BEVs and ~£60 
related to the increased cost of ASHP.  
6.8 East Midlands 
 
The East Midlands ranks eighth in the regional comparison. The power system 
continues to host a large coal and gas capacity, as well as a significant renewable 
and electricity storage capacity. Currently, the region has the second highest 
transmission capacity of all regions. However, a smaller growth rate compared to 
other regions further north could see the East Midlands lose this second-place 
ranking. The growth in renewables and existing transmission capacity places the 
region at a good starting point to undergo an electricity transformation.  
The East Midlands has the second greatest absolute number and the greatest 
penetration of ultra-low emission buses into their fleet. In the East Midlands, the 
city of Nottingham has been an early adopter of electric buses, having recently 
purchased a further 13 battery electric buses to join the current 45. The East 
Midlands have the lowest number of ultra-low emission HGVs. Despite positive 
movement in the transport sector, there is still considerable changes required to 
ensure a transformation of the transport sector.  
for battery-electric vehicles and plug-in 
hybrid electric vehicles. When normalised 
by the total number of journeys taken in that 
same year, Wales is amongst the highest 
investment spend per journey on rail and 
much higher than the South East of England 
(i.e. regions East, South East and London). 
This seems to correlate with the limited 
electrification in rail and reduces the chances 
of carbon emissions reduction through
a modal shift in the transport sector.
Wales suffers the highest cost associated 
with transitioning to electric heating and 
passenger transport. The yearly additional 
cost amounts to ~£1,100, with ~£1,040 
related to the increased cost BEVs and ~£60 
related to the increased cost of ASHP.
The additional yearly cost of using ASHP 
for heating and a BEV for private passenger 
transport amounts to over £1,000 in the 
East Midlands. This is mostly related to the 
~£920 additional cost of BEV ownership. 
The East Midlands therefore ranks as the 
region with the 4th highest additional cost.
66
The North West ranks tenth, its 
power system has a rich mix 
of coal, gas and nuclear power 
stations, as well as offshore 
wind power in the Irish sea. 
Further, the largest wind turbine 
of the world resides in the newly 
finished Burbo Bank Offshore
Wind Farm, which connects 
to an onshore substation at 
Wallasey, near Liverpool.
The North West was also the first region 
to have liquid air electricity storage, before 
the facility was moved from Lancashire 
to Birmingham. The region has one of the 
highest employment numbers in renewable 
energy in England, increasing its long-term 
competitiveness. Despite these progresses 
in the power sector, the region does not 
rank highly amongst the other regions in 
the energy transition of the power sector.
The North West is one of the leading regions 
for the penetration of ultra-low emission 
HGVs, both in absolute number and as a 
proportion of the HGV fleet. This however 
does not overcome the shortcomings in 
the other transport, transition metrics. 
The region requires greater support to 
ensure that it is not left behind in the 
energy transition of the transport sector.
Buildings in the North West are characterised 
by low-midrange EPC ratings. Despite lower 
electricity prices, the cost of heating still 
leaves many North Westerners fuel poor, 
due to overall lower regional incomes. This 
is generally reflected in all the midlands 
and northern regions. The transition to 
electric heating would increase energy 
bills in the regions, strongly affecting 
already vulnerable, fuel poor consumers.
6.10 North West
Yorkshire and the Humber face an additional yearly cost of ~£950 with switching to 
ASHP heating and BEV private road transportation, of which ~£880 is related to the 
additional cost of BEV ownership. As compared to other regions, Yorkshire and the 
Humber ranks among the regions with the lowest additional costs of heating and 
transport electrification, using ASHP and BEVs.  
6.10 North West 
 
The North West ranks tenth, its power system has a rich mix of coal, gas and 
nuclear power stations, as well as offshore wind power in the Irish sea. Further, the 
largest wind turbine of the world resides in the newly finished Burbo Bank Offshore 
Wind Farm, which connects to an onshore substation at Wallasey, near Liverpool. 
The North West was also the first region to have liquid air electricity storage, before 
the facility was moved from Lancashire to Birmingham. The region has one of the 
highest employment numbers in renewable energy in England, increasing its long-
term competitiveness. Despite these progresses in the power sector, the region 
does not rank highly amongst the other regions in the energy transition of the 
power sector. 
The North West is one of the leading regions for the penetration of ultra-low 
emission HGVs, both in absolute number and as a proportion of the HGV fleet. This 
however does not overcome the shortcomings in the other transport, transition 
metrics. The region requires greater support to ensure that it is not left behind in 
the energy transition of the transport sector.  
Buildings in the North West are characterised by low-midrange EPC ratings.  
Despite lower electricity prices, the cost of heating still leaves many North 
Westerners fuel poor, due to overall lower regional incomes. This is generally 
reflected in all the midlands and northern regions. The transition to electric heating 
would increase energy bills in the regions, strongly affecting already vulnerable, 
fuel poor consumers.  
The additional cost of electrifying heating, with ASHP, and transportation, with 
BEVs, amounts to ~£1,020 per year in the North West. As with all regions, apart 
from London, this is related to the additional cost of BEV ownership – ~£910 per 
The additional cost of electrifying heating 
and transportation amounts to ~£1,020 
per year in the North West. This is mostly 
related to the additional cost of BEV 
ownership, which stand at ~£910 per 
year. The North West has the 2nd highest 
additional cost, behind only Wales.
Ranking joint eighth, Yorkshire and 
the Humber is characterised by its 
past of being home to several large 
coal power plants, remaining one 
of the few regions with active coal 
power generation, and currently 
has the second-most installed 
capacity. Further, as a result of 
Drax’s conversion of four out of six 
coal units to biomass, Yorkshire 
and the Humber has the greatest 
biomass capacity in Britain. 
Projections indicate the region will 
connect several offshore wind farms, 
generating employment during the 
construction and operation phases. This 
added capacity in the region will mean 
either greater electricity storage will be 
required or a doubling of the grid capacity 
in neighbouring regions. Notably, the 
region currently has one of the lowest 
installed capacities in electricity storage, 
although recent announcements suggest
Yorkshire may become a leader in this area.
Yorkshire has seen the greatest growth 
of all regions in the number of plug-in 
vehicles, having grown over 200 times its 
size since 2011, albeit from a low starting 
point. The region requires more incentives 
for progress in the energy transition of 
the transport sector as it would otherwise 
fall behind the rest of the country.
Buildings in Yorkshire have the lowest rate 
of EPC ratings above C in the country, 
with around 7% of buildings rated at F 
and G. Despite having the second lowest 
6.9 Yorkshire and the Humber
 
124 
 
Regional implications 
 
passenger transport amounts to over £1,000 in the East Midlands. This is mostly 
related to the ~£920 additional cost of BEV ownership. Compared to other regions, 
the East Midlands ranks as the region with the 4th highest additional cost.  
6.9 Yorkshire and the Humber 
 
Ranking ninth, Yorkshire and the Humber is characterised by its past of being home 
to several large coal power plants, remaining one of the few regions with active coal 
power generation, and currently has the second-most installed capacity. Further, as 
a result of Drax’s conversion of four out of six coal units to biomass, Yorkshire and 
the Humber has the greatest biomass capacity in Britain. Projections indicate the 
region will connect several offshore wind farms, generating employment during the 
construction and operation phases. This added capacity in the region will mean 
either greater electricity storage will be required or a doubling of the grid capacity 
in neighbouring regions. Notably, the region currently has one of the lowest 
installed capacities in electricity storage, although recent announcements suggest 
Yorkshire may become a leader in this area.  
Yorkshire and the Humber has seen the greatest growth of all regions in the 
number of plug-in vehicles, having grown over 200 times its size since 2011, albeit 
from a low starting point. The region requires more incentives for progress in the 
energy transition of the transport sector as it would otherwise fall behind the rest of 
the country.  
Yorkshire buildings have the lowest rate of EPC ratings above C in the country, with 
around 7% of buildings rated at F and G. Despite having the second lowest energy 
bills in Britain, fuel poverty is still high. Strong intervention is required to ensure 
that the region’s energy transition in buildings is not left behind.  
energy bills in Britain, fuel poverty is still 
high. Strong intervention is required to 
ensure that the region’s energy transition 
in buildings is not left behind.
The additional cost of electric heating 
and transport is ~£950 in Yorkshire.  Of 
this, ~£880 is related to the additional 
cost of BEV ownership. This places 
Yorkshire slightly below average, ranking 
the 5th lowest cost among the regions.
67
6.11 North East
 
126 
 
Regional implications 
 
year. Compared to other regions, the North West ranks amongst the regions having 
the highest additional costs.  
6.11 North East 
 
Figure 6.2: Overall indicator on localised barometer achievements in the North East of England. 
The North East is the least transformed region in GB. The North East’s power 
system is characterised by its need to triple grid transmission capacity by 2040, 
with the possibility of connecting an offshore wind farms in the near future. The 
largest power stations are Hartlepool nuclear power plant (1.3 GW), set for 
decommissioning in the mid-2020s, and Lynemouth biomass power station (400 
MW). Excluding biomass, the North East has the lowest power station capacity in 
the country (excluding London). This absence of generation, especially by the mid-
2020s means that an investment in wind power could boost local economy and 
enhance the current the structural changes ongoing in the region. Positively, the 
region has the second highest smart meter roll-out rate in Britain. 
The North East has had the smallest growth in the number of registered plug-in 
vehicles, increasing its fleet in 2018 (Q1) by only 34 times the size in 2011. 
Further, the North East has decreased its number of electric/hydrogen buses 
compared to 2010. Based on total cost of ownership calculations, battery-electric 
vehicles and plug-in hybrid electric vehicles place the greatest financial burden on 
consumer of the North East. Interestingly, the competition for charging points is 
amongst the lowest in Britain. Based on the total number of rail journeys taken, the 
North East in 2017 invested the most, despite its limited electrification. 
The region’s buildings have a relatively high EPC ratings (above C). However, it has 
the second highest fuel poverty rates, despite having some of the lowest energy 
bills. As there are currently very few low-carbon heating units are installed, a 
change to electric heating in the future would increase energy bills the most 
compared to other regions. 
The North East has projected additional costs of ~£1,015 per year related to 
switching to ASHP heating and BEV private road transportation. BEV ownership 
accounts for ~£890 of this additional cost, whereas ASHP heating accounts for 
The North East is the least 
transformed region in GB. The 
North East’s power system is 
characterised by its need to 
triple grid transmission capacity 
by 2040, with the possibility of 
connecting an offshore wind farms 
in the near future. The largest 
power stations are Hartlepool 
nuclear power plant (1.3 GW), set 
for decommissioning in the mid-
2020s, and Lynemouth biomass 
power station (400 MW). Excluding 
biomass, the North East has the 
lowest power station capacity 
in the country except London.
This absence of generation, especially by 
the mid-2020s means that an investment 
in wind power could boost local economy 
and enhance the current the structural 
changes ongoing in the region. Positively, 
the region has the second highest 
smart meter roll-out rate in Britain.
The North East has had the smallest 
growth in the number of registered plug-in 
vehicles, with its fleet in 2018 (Q1) being 
34 times larger than it was in 2011, which 
is only half the national growth rate. To 
compound this, the North East has fewer 
electric and hydrogen buses than it did in 
2010. Based on total cost of ownership 
calculations, battery-electric vehicles and 
plug-in hybrid electric vehicles place the 
greatest financial burden on consumer of 
the North East. Interestingly, the competition 
for charging points is amongst the lowest 
in Britain, meaning the stage is set for 
greater uptake of electric vehicles. Based 
on the total number of journeys, the North 
East invested the most per rail journey in 
2017, despite its limited electrification.
The region’s buildings have a relatively 
high EPC ratings (above C). However, it 
has the second highest fuel poverty rates, 
despite having some of the lowest energy 
bills. There are currently very few low-
carbon heating units installed, and our 
total cost of ownership calculations show 
that a change to electric heating would 
increase household bills in the North East 
the most compared to other regions.
The cost of switching to electric heating 
and transport in the North East is projected 
to be ~£1,015 per year.  This is the 3rd 
highest cost increase across Britain’s 
regions, and only £2/year behind the North 
West.  BEV ownership accounts for ~£890 
of this additional cost, while ASHP heating 
accounts for ~£125.  Clearly, efforts to reduce 
the cost premium for electric technologies 
in a region with below-average uptake 
and below-average income could have 
significant impacts on future progress.
Figure 6.3: Overall indicator on localised barometer achievements in the North East of England.
68
Section 7: 
Conclusions
This study has examined the 
current state of the energy transition 
and its likely future pathway. By 
combining publicly available data 
and commonly accepted scenarios 
for the energy transition we have 
identified targets for the future 
state of the energy system and 
the current state of the transition. 
As the energy transition cannot 
be measured directly, we have 
chosen to use a large number of 
indicators to establish whether 
the transition is on track. 
These metrics serve as a proxy to 
gauge the process. For each metric we 
identify whether it is on track, almost 
on track (90% of target) or not on track. 
The progress is then measured towards 
scenarios from National Grid Future Energy 
Scenarios (FES), the Department for
Business, Energy and Industrial 
Strategy (BEIS) and the Government’s 
Committee on Climate Change (CCC), 
which have the target year of 2030.
These findings are standardised in a 
barometer format, giving the visual 
representation of the progress. Additional 
data was gathered to present the barometers 
on a regional level for the 11 regions of 
Great Britain. This represents an important 
differentiation of the information when 
compared to previously published reports.
The regional information adds another layer 
of analysis and allows the investigation of 
the regional differences. Regions differ in 
their starting points in the energy transition, 
as well as in their potential to transition the 
power, transport, heating and industrial 
energy sectors and how they interact 
(sector coupling). We further combine this 
data with socio-economic information on 
each region, which allows us to analyse the 
implications for individuals and businesses.
The results from the barometers show 
that the power sector largely on track 
and in full state of transition. Further 
challenges lie ahead to achieve the deep
decarbonisation that is required. The 
buildings energy sector poses a big 
challenge and requires significantly more 
effort to decarbonise. We have assessed 
the progress of decarbonising heating 
with electrification and increasing energy 
efficiency in homes, concluding that the 
current levels of activity will not yield the 
necessary results. The transport sector has 
a more diverse picture. Some of the chosen 
indicators show that the transport sector 
is on track (e.g. number of EV chargers) in 
some regions. However, regional differences 
are most pronounced in the transport energy 
sector. The industrial sector is potentially the 
hardest to decarbonise, as it is diverse in the 
application with the most energy-intensive 
processes unable to transform because 
of either economic or technical reasons. 
However, economic growth in industry has 
already decoupled from GHG emissions, 
which is an encouraging sign for the future.
69
The sector is on track to meet three 
out of six of its objectives and in 
close pursuit of two more with 
one target clearly missed so far.
In the future all electricity will have to come 
from clean sources, such as wind, solar 
and nuclear, alongside the use of flexible 
options for balancing (e.g. bioenergy and 
gas with CCUS). The large cost reduction 
in renewable energies sources (RES) makes 
it more likely that intermittent generators 
will dominate the energy system.
A shift in the location of generators will 
change and therefore so will the areas 
of economic activity in the electricity 
supply sector. Generally speaking this 
favours more rural and coastal areas.
A multitude of different options, such as 
interconnection, storage and demand side 
response will be available in the future 
to allow the balancing of the system.
The roll-out of smart meters is taking place 
at a different speeds across the country, 
but is clearly behind the target. This 
prohibits the use of demand response from 
domestic customers in the near future.
Large cost reductions in key technologies 
such as renewable generators, batteries and 
hydrogen suggest that it is possible that 
costs for the consumers may not rise at all.
Renewables, particularly wind and solar 
farms, have led to job creation in less 
economically developed regions Britain. 
Scotland shows that the increase in 
renewable generation has created a 
strong new industrial sector. The changing 
generation mix is leading to shifting 
employment patterns, with job losses in 
fossil generation businesses offset by 
gains in employment in renewables. The 
dispersed nature of renewables means that 
jobs are created in construction, operation 
and maintenance in more remote areas.
The sector is on track to achieve 
three out of the seven targets 
examined for this research and 
falling well behind on four.
Transport is behind in reaching its GHG 
emissions target and a long way off the final 
target, meaning that large changes will be 
required to achieve the 2030 climate targets.
Electric vehicle (EV) sales are ramping up 
from a low base, but the current 0.4% 
of the fleet will need to become 27% by 
2030 if climate targets are to be met.
At an aggregated, national level EV charger 
deployment appears to be on target to 
deliver enough charging points for the 
projected EV uptake. However, there is 
regional and intraregional clustering of 
these charging points, which will result 
in shortages and access problems in 
other locations. The electricity network 
implications of charging infrastructure 
also require significant investment.
Hydrogen vehicles have not yet developed 
in Britain, with only one vehicle model 
currently eligible for the Plug-In Grant. The 
lack of refuelling stations and their clustering 
in London further hinders deployment.
Early battery and hydrogen electric 
bus fleet penetration is on track 
despite overall bus fleet growth.
Rail emissions have only decreased 
by 1% since 2010, jeopardising the 
achievability of the 2030 target. Recently 
scrapped electrification plans are further 
hampering the transition of this industry.
Domestic buildings are a high 
emitting sector, mainly due to 
the provision of heat. 83% of 
energy used domestically goes 
to space and water heating. 
Economically and environmentally 
this is the area to focus upon.
Domestic energy efficiency in Britain 
is lagging behind targets and non-
domestic energy efficiency targets do 
not exist. Scotland benefits from higher 
proportions of high energy efficiency 
ratings whilst Wales has the poorest 
performing houses on average.
This can have a large effect on energy bills, 
especially with electric heating, which can 
have significantly higher costs than oil or 
gas. Low energy efficiency is also linked to 
fuel poverty. However, this correlation is hard 
to see with the averaged out regional data.
Fuel poverty has been fairly even across 
the Britain but is generally more prevalent 
in northern regions than southern ones, 
matching the trends in household income.
Despite large deployment targets for 2030, 
the share of low-carbon heating (especially 
heat pumps) is still very low. A large scale 
up in the near future is therefore necessary. 
This will affect the cost of energy for each 
region differently, depending on the housing 
composition and current heating source.
Extreme electrification could benefit 
energy spend in Scotland and the
South-West, while increasing costs for 
midland and northern regions of England.
There are already high levels of 
electrification in non-domestic buildings. 
The South of England is the most 
electrified part of GB in this subsector.
London and the South spend less on 
energy relative to Gross Value Added 
(GVA)a, making companies in these 
regions less susceptible to changes 
in the energy system and its costs.
7.1 Power
7.2 Transport
7.3 Buildings
a  Commercial and Public Gross Value Added.
70
Industry is a difficult sector to 
transform, as there are many 
economic and technological barriers 
and there are no robust targets 
for the industrial sector’s energy 
transition, beyond GHG reduction.
As a whole, British industry has 
decoupled its economic growth from 
the emission of GHGs, currently placing 
it on track to reach climate targets.
Absolute electricity use in industry has 
stayed constant, while its share of total 
energy has increased, as processes 
have been electrified and efficiency 
increases have been implemented.
The top 10 energy consuming industries 
have varying degrees of electrification. 
At this point, many processes have been 
optimised for cost. It is theoretically possible 
to increase electrification but this will 
increase energy costs significantly. This 
would make industry uncompetitive unless 
carbon pricing revenue is recouped.
North West, Midlands and South East 
are most at risk to losing jobs because 
of automation as these are the most 
industrialised areas in the country. Over 
500,000 jobs are at risk in manufacturing, 
mining and quarrying, water and waste. This 
would obviously have a large effect on the 
energy demand of the industrial sector.
The rapid decarbonisation of electricity is a 
feather in Britain’s cap, providing a means 
to transform electricity-intensive sectors. 
Buildings and to some extent industry 
are already benefiting, whilst transport is 
potentially well-positioned. There are tough 
challenges ahead though, since areas such 
as heavy industry, freight transport and 
some parts of heating do not immediately 
lend themselves to electrification, so 
other options need to be considered. 
The uneven distribution of change also 
applies regionally and socially. A looming 
concern is the effect of disparities in the 
energy transition, with some at risk of 
being left behind economically due to 
unaffordable changes. As in other walks 
of life London stands apart, whilst less 
affluent regions in the north and elsewhere 
are falling behind on many measures.
So, in this first assessment of Britain’s energy transition, there is much to be 
positive about, but science fiction writer William Gibson’s observation that 
“the future is already here – it’s just not very evenly distributed” applies.
This work has drawn from diverse sources 
to provide a synthesised picture. Full 
comparability of data is hard, but the authors 
have sought to adjust for differences of 
scope, time-scale and accuracy. Care has 
been taken to consider where Britain ‘ought’ 
to be relative to the desired end points. 
Many representations of the underlying data 
are possible and more has been left out 
than included. More can always be done 
and the authors welcome the engagement 
of readers to inform the future of Energising 
Britain. We thank you for reading this far.
7.4 Industry
7.5 Concluding remarks
71
Appendices
There are a large number total 
cost of ownership (TCO) studies 
that aim to compare the cost of 
conventional, internal combustion 
engine vehicles against battery 
electric (BEV) and plug-in electric 
hybrids (PHEV). However, few look 
at if these TCOs differ regionally.
The total cost of ownership (TCO) of a 
petrol (Ford Fiesta), diesel (Ford Fiesta), 
battery electric (Nissan Leaf) and plug-
in electric hybrid vehicle (Toyota Prius) 
has been calculated using the following 
simplified equation. The representative 
vehicle was chosen based on the 
popularity of the car, the relative size and 
the available information. The TCO of a 
hydrogen car was not completed due to 
insufficient data on fuel prices, potential 
maintenance and insurance costs, and 
depreciation rates. This work assumed 
that each vehicle is owned for 3 years.
The Plug-In Grant subsidy has been 
included in this analysis. First year and 
standard tax rates have been included, 
which only apply to petrol, diesel and hybrid 
vehicles. Further, in London, the effects 
on the congestion chargea have been 
applied to petrol and diesel vehiclesb.
The annual fuel and maintenance costs 
and depreciate rate are all linked to 
how intensely the vehicle is used, i.e. 
how many kilometres driven. Based on 
data published by the Department for 
Transport1,2, it is possible to determine 
the average kilometres driven per vehicle 
per year for each region in Great Britain.
Average fuel costs, for diesel, petrol and 
electricity, are not regionally homogenous, 
and therefore further amplify the regional 
differences in the total costs of vehicle
ownership3,4. These annual costs are further 
discounted based on owning the car for
3 years. The total depreciation rate 
after 3 years is removed from the initial 
cost of the vehicle to estimate the 
potential resale value of the vehicle.
Table 8.1 and Table 8.2 outline the assumptions used for each vehicle type and
Great Britain region, and the data that was used in the TCO equation presented above:
Appendix 1: Modelling vehicle TCO
 
136 
 
Appendices 
 
 
Table 8.1 and Table 8.2 outline the assumptions used for each vehicle type and 
Great Britain region, and the data that was used in the TCO equation presented 
above: 
 
Petrol 
Diesel 
BEV 
PHEV 
Vehicle 
Ford Fiesta - 
1.1L Ti-VCT 
70PS 
Ford Fiesta - 
1.5 TDCi 85PS 
Nissan Leaf - 
Visia 40 kW 
single speed 
automatic 
Toyota Prius - 
Business 
Edition Plus 
(no solar roof) 
Price £13,715 
£15,815 
£27,290 
£31,695 
Subsidies None 
None 
£4,500 
£2,500 
Depreciation 
rate 
27.15 
pence/mile 
33.55 
pence/mile 
61.95 
pence/mile 
53.97 
pence/mile 
Fuel efficiency 41 MPG 
55 MPG 
18 
kWh/100km 
30 miles/4.4 
kWh; 59 MPG 
Annual 
maintenance 2.1 pence/mile 
2.2 pence/mile 
1.7 pence/mile 
2.2 pence/mile 
Insurance 
group 2 
8 
21 
21 
Insurance cost £440/year 
£500/year 
£680/year 
£675/year 
Tax £165 first year 
£140 standard 
£145 first year 
£140 standard 
£0 
£130 standard 
Table 8.1: Characteristics of vehicles used for TCO calculation.  Data from 5,6,7,8,c,d,e,f,g,h. 
 
 
c Information for each car retrieved from Fleet News. Available at: https://www.fleetnews.co.uk/ 
d Information for each car retrieved from Next Greencar. Available at: https://www.nextgreencar.com/ 
e Information for each car retrieved from Fleet News. Available at: https://www.fleetnews.co.uk/  
f Information for each car retrieved from Parkers. Available at: https://www.parkers.co.uk/  
g Used Money Supermarket and assumed a 30-year-old single male.  
h Information for each car retrieved from Next Greencar. Available at: https://www.nextgreencar.com/  
Region 
Petrol Price 
(£/L) 
Diesel Price 
(£/L) 
Electricity 
Price (£/kWh) 
km driven 
per car 
(rounded 
nearest unit) 
Scotland 
1.286 
1.318 
0.148 
14,878 
Wales 
1.286 
1.315 
0.151 
14,864 
North East 
1.28 
1.313 
0.143 
14,004 
North West 
1.282 
1.315 
0.143 
14,155 
Yorkshire  
1.279 
1.309 
0.139 
13,978 
West Midlands 
1.284 
1.312 
0.142 
13,088 
East Midlands 
1.288 
1.316 
0.139 
14,329 
East 
1.292 
1.322 
0.141 
14,331 
London 
1.292 
1.321 
0.145 
8,470 
South East 
1.295 
1.324 
0.147 
13,804 
South West 
1.291 
1.319 
0.155 
13,585 
Table 8.2: Kilometres driven per vehicle and prices for petrol, diesel and electricity by region.3,4,1 
Appendix 2: Detailed analysis of vehicle TCO 
The total cost of ownership (TCO) has been calculated for a petrol, diesel, battery 
electric (BEV) and plug-in electric hybrid (PHEV) privately-owned vehicle This was 
further assessed to determine the regional total cost variations. Generally speaking, 
petrol and diesel cars are currently cheaper than BEVs and PHEVs, on a TCO basis. 
Based on Table 8.3, the variation in TCOs by vehicle type is not significant, 
suggesting BEVs and PHEVs are becoming cost-competitive when a lifetime view is 
taken. However, the initial cost, including the Plug-In grant, of BEVs and PHEVs are 
up to twice the price of petrol and diesel cars. This significantly larger up-front cost 
can negatively impact the uptake of plug-in vehicles, despite their lifetime cost 
being similar. This is especially true for households with lower gross household 
incomes, though the burden of a high initial cost could be slightly dampened if 
Table 8.1: Characteristics of vehicles used for TCO calculation. Data from 5,6,7,8,c,d,e,f,g,h
Table 8.2: Kilometres driven per vehicle and prices for petrol, diesel and electricity by region.3,4,1
a 
 TfL data on the number of congestion charges per year and DfT data on the number of cars in London suggest that private 
vehicles make around 8 trips per year into the congestion charge zone, in which case they would be charged £11.50 per day.
b  The toxicity charge is not included in this analysis, as the vehicles chosen for this research are not subject to this charge, 
which in any case does not begin before 8th April 2019.
c  Information for each car retrieved from Fleet News. Available at: https://www.fleetnews.co.uk/
d  Information for each car retrieved from Next Greencar. Available at: https://www.nextgreencar.com/
e  Information for each car retrieved from Fleet News. Available at: https://www.fleetnews.co.uk/
f  Information for each car retrieved from Parkers. Available at: https://www.parkers.co.uk/
g  Used Money Supermarket and assumed a 30-year-old single male.
h Information for each car retrieved from Next Greencar. Available at: https://www.nextgreencar.com/
72
The total cost of ownership (TCO) 
has been calculated for a petrol, 
diesel, battery electric (BEV) and 
plug-in electric hybrid (PHEV) 
privately-owned vehicle. This was 
further assessed to determine 
the regional total cost variations. 
Generally speaking, petrol and diesel 
cars are currently cheaper than 
BEVs and PHEVs, on a TCO basis.
Based on Table 8.3, the variation in TCOs 
by vehicle type is not significant, suggesting 
BEVs and PHEVs are becoming cost-
competitive when a lifetime view is taken. 
However, the initial cost, including the 
Plug-In grant, of BEVs and PHEVs are up 
to twice the price of petrol and diesel cars. 
This significantly larger up-front cost can 
negatively impact the uptake of plug-in 
vehicles, despite their lifetime cost being 
similar. This is especially true for households 
with lower gross household incomes, though 
the burden of a high initial cost could be 
slightly dampened if vehicles are financed.
Based on the analysis conducted, nationally, 
petrol and diesel cars are still cheaper 
than BEVs and PHEVs. Figure 8.1 provides 
the regional breakdown of TCO values for 
each vehicle type assuming vehicles are 
sold after three years. London is the only 
region in GB where the TCO for BEVs is 
lower than conventionally fuelled vehicles. 
This is a result of lower distances travelled 
by vehicles compared to any other region, 
which in turn affects fuel requirements, 
maintenance costs and depreciation costs. 
Further, London has a congestion charge 
zone, which if travelled into every working 
day could increase the annual cost of petrol 
and diesel vehicles by up to £3,000i.
Appendix 2: Detailed analysis of vehicle TCO
Figure 8.1: Total cost of ownership by vehicle type by region.
Table 8.3: Average TCO and assumed initial cost per  
vehicle type.
i 
 For this research it was assumed that vehicles entered the zone eight times per year.
Average 
TCO
Assumed initial 
cost (incl. purchase 
price subsidy)
Petrol
£12,688
£13,715
Diesel
£13,607
£15,815
BEV
£14,502
£22,790
PHEV
£16,333
£29,195
73
To calculate the change in energy spend as 
heating technologies change, the important 
assumptions for these calculations are:
• For cost data:
 
-  Commercial pricing assumed to 
be indicative for domestic due 
to using relative differences.
 
-  Carbon price in line with what is 
needed to reach CCC targets
 
-  Cost of capital of 7.5%
 
-  No income from DSR or other 
sources that could reduce costs
•  All on-grid houses change to new 
low-carbon technology (GSHP, ASHP, 
conventional electric or biomass boilers).
•  Only off-gas grid houses that are not 
already electric or biomass change 
to new low-carbon technology.
•  Current solid fuel central heating is 
considered solely biomass, as it is 
assumed that any remaining coal central 
heating would be converted to biomass.
•  The data for central heating types is taken 
from 2011 Census data and will likely 
have inaccuracies to today’s energy split.
•  The calculations for each technology 
assume that if the household is allowed 
to change (as described above) then it 
will change to the one new lowcarbon 
technology selected. E.g all on-gas 
grid and allowed off-gas grid would 
become ASHP (if ASHP selected).
•  Total spend is calculated by:
 
-  (Original spend * Off grid technology 
price factor * % of total homes 
that are off-grid and available to 
change) + (Original spend * Off 
grid technology price factor * % 
of total homes that are on-grid)
 
-  The difference between the new 
spend value and the original 
spend is then calculated.
The current status of heating in Britain 
can be approximated with the information 
whether a household is on or off the gas-
grid (see Figure 8.2). It is assumed that 
if a house is connected to the gas-grid 
then they do use gas for heating, as this 
is the currently cheapest option22. Off-gas 
grid homes commonly use either electric, 
biomass, LPG or oil central heating systems. 
The share of electric heating in off-gas 
grid homes can be seen in Figure 8.3.
The areas with the most electric heating 
in off-gas grid houses show that they are 
focussed around pockets in England and in 
a band from West to East in mid-Scotland, 
which includes the two main cities Glasgow 
and Edinburgh. In comparison, there are 
large off-gas grid areas such as the South 
West of England, the Highlands of Scotland 
and mid-Wales that have relatively low 
electrification of heating. Here, other off-
gas grid energy sources would be utilised. 
The off-grid areas without electricity are 
often in rural areas, with space for storage 
of the fuel for other heating options.
Appendix 3: Modelling cost  
of heating electrification
j 
 Scotland data obtained from: Non-gas map https://www.nongasmap.org.uk/
k Uses data calculated from Figure 4.6 and Figure 8.2
Table 8.2: Share of households off-gas grid by region and local authority.12, j
Figure 8.3: Share of electric heating in off-gas grid homes by regional and local authority.k
74
Appendix References
1  Department for Transport (2017): Table TRA0206: Road traffic 
(vehicle kilometres): by vehicle type and region and country in 
Great Britain, annual, 2017. www.gov.uk/government/
organisations/department-for-transport/series/road-trafficstatistics
2  Department for Transport (2017): Table TSGB0906 (VEH0204): 
Licensed cars, by region, Great Britain: from 1994; also United 
Kingdom: from 2014. https://www.gov.uk/government/
collections/vehicles-statistics
3  AA (2018): August 2018 fuel prices: UK and overseas petrol and 
diesel prices – August 2018. http://www.theaa.com/driving-
advice/driving-costs/fuel-prices
4  Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy (2018): 
Average unit costs and fixed costs for electricity for UK regions 
(QEP 2.2.4). https://www.gov.uk/government/statistical-data-
sets/annual-domestic-energy-pricestatistics
5  Ford (2018): Ford Fiesta – Customer Ordering Guide and Price List. 
https://www.ford.co.uk/content/dam/guxeu/uk/documents/
price-list/cars/PLAll_New_Fiesta.pdf
6  Nissan (2018): Nissan Leaf Brochure. https://www-europe.
nissancdn.net/content/dam/Nissan/gb/brochures/Vehicles/
Nissan_Leaf_UK.pdf
7  Toyota (2018): Price List – Effective from 2nd July 2018.  
https://www.toyota.co.uk/download/cms/gben/July%20
2018%20Price%20List_tcm-3060-602975.pdf
8  UK Government (n.d.): Low-emission vehicles eligible for a plug-in 
grant. https://www.gov.uk/plug-in-car-van-grants
75
