1 
 
Ref: 17704879_20/02/2023 
 
Bureau Veritas Registered Office: Suite 206, Fort Dunlop, Fort Parkway, Birmingham B24 9FD 
Registered in England 1758622Page 1 of 3 
 
INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE REPORT 
 
 
To:  The Stakeholders of Drax Group plc 
 
Introduction and objectives of work  
Bureau Veritas UK Limited (‘Bureau Veritas’) has been engaged by Drax Group plc (“Drax”) to 
provide limited assurance over its average biomass supply chain greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions data as reported in its Annual Report & Accounts 2022 (‘the Report’). This Assurance 
Statement applies to the related information included within the scope of work described below. 
The objective is to provide assurance to Client and its stakeholders over the accuracy and 
reliability of the reported information and data. 
 
Scope of work 
The scope of our work was limited to assurance over Drax’s ‘average biomass supply chain 
GHG emissions’ data included within the Report for the period 1st January to 31st December 
2022 (the ‘Selected Information’). 
 
Reporting Criteria 
The Selected Information are reported according to Drax’s internal reporting guidelines on GHG 
emissions data reporting.  Biomass supply chain emissions for individual pellet plants are 
calculated 
using 
the 
Drax 
biomass 
carbon 
calculator, 
available 
at  
https://www.drax.com/sustainability/the-biomass-carbon-calculator/ 
 
Limitations and Exclusions 
Our assurance process was subject to the following limitations as we have not been engaged 
to review:  
▪ 
Activities outside the defined reporting period;  
▪ 
Positional statements (expressions of opinion, belief, aim or future intention by Drax) 
and statements of future commitment; 
▪ 
Other information included in the Report other than the scope defined above. 
 
This limited assurance engagement relies on a risk based selected sample of sustainability 
data and the associated limitations that this entails. The reliability of the reported data is 
dependent on the accuracy of metering and other production measurement arrangements 
employed at site level, not addressed as part of this assurance. This independent statement 
should not be relied upon to detect all errors, omissions or misstatements that may exist. 
 
Responsibilities 
The preparation and presentation of the Selected Information in the Report is the sole 
responsibility of the management of Drax.   
Bureau Veritas was not involved in the drafting of the Report. Our responsibilities were to: 
2 
 
Ref: 17704879_20/02/2023 
 
Bureau Veritas Registered Office: Suite 206, Fort Dunlop, Fort Parkway, Birmingham B24 9FD 
Registered in England 1758622Page 2 of 3 
• Obtain limited assurance about whether the Selected Information has been 
appropriately and accurately prepared; 
• Form an independent conclusion based on the assurance procedures performed and 
evidence obtained; and 
• Report our conclusions to the Directors of Drax. 
 
Assessment Standard 
We performed our work to a limited level of assurance in accordance with International 
Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 Revised, Assurance Engagements Other 
than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information (effective for assurance reports dated 
on or after December 15, 2015), issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards 
Board. 
 
Summary of work performed 
As part of its independent verification, Bureau Veritas undertook the following activities:  
1. Assessed the appropriateness and accuracy of the Selected Information; 
2. Conducted interviews with relevant personnel of Drax;  
3. Reviewed the data collection and consolidation processes used to compile the 
Selected Information, including assessing assumptions made, the data scope and 
reporting boundaries; 
4. Reviewed a sample of the Selected Information against the corresponding source 
documentation provided by Drax; and 
5. Performed a selection of aggregation calculations of the Selected Information. 
 
A 5% materiality threshold was applied to this assurance.  It should be noted that the 
procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature and timing from, and 
are less in extent than for, a reasonable assurance engagement.  Consequently, the level of 
assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than the 
assurance that would have been obtained had a reasonable assurance engagement been 
performed. 
 
Conclusion   
On the basis of our methodology and the activities described above for the agreed scope, 
nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the Selected Information as stated below and 
in the Report is not fairly stated in all material respects.  
Average biomass supply chain GHG emissions 2022: 96 kgCO2e/MWh of electricity 
 
Statement of Independence, Integrity and Competence  
Bureau Veritas is an independent professional services company that specialises in quality, 
environmental, health, safety and social accountability with over 190 years’ history. Its 
assurance team has extensive experience in conducting verification over environmental, social, 
ethical and health and safety information, systems and processes.  
 
3 
 
Ref: 17704879_20/02/2023 
 
Bureau Veritas Registered Office: Suite 206, Fort Dunlop, Fort Parkway, Birmingham B24 9FD 
Registered in England 1758622Page 3 of 3 
Bureau Veritas operates a certified1 Quality Management System which complies with the 
requirements of ISO 9001:2015, and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality 
control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical 
requirements, professional standards, quality reviews and applicable legal and regulatory 
requirements which we consider to be equivalent to ISQM 1 & 22. 
 
Bureau Veritas has implemented and applies a Code of Ethics, which meets the requirements 
of the International Federation of Inspections Agencies (IFIA)3 across the business to ensure 
that its employees maintain integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, 
confidentiality, professional behaviour and high ethical standards in their day-to-day business 
activities.  
 
Bureau Veritas UK Limited  
London 
20th February 2023 
 
1 Certificate of Registration available on request 
2 International Standard on Quality Management 1 (Previously International Standard on Quality Control 
1) & International Standard on Quality Management 2 
3 International Federation of Inspection Agencies – Compliance Code – Third Edition 
