 
 
The Millbrook Power  
(Gas Fired Power Station) Order 
 
9.1 Grid Connection Statement 
 
Planning Act 2008 
The Infrastructure Planning  
(Applications: Prescribed Forms and Procedure) Regulations 2009 
 
PINS Reference Number:  
 
EN010068 
Document Reference: 
 
 
9.1 
Regulation Number: 
 
 
5(2)(p) & 6(1)(a)(i) 
Author: 
 
 
 
 
Millbrook Power Limited 
 
Revision 
 
Date  
 
Description  
 
0 
 
 
October 2017 
Submission Version  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
88086924.1\cb57 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Contents 
 
          
 
 
 
          Page 
 
1. 
INTRODUCTION 
3 
2. 
PROJECT SUMMARY 
5 
3. 
CONTRACTUAL AGREEMENTS 
6 
4. 
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR DESIGNING AND BUILDING THE GRID 
CONNECTION 
7 
5. 
ACQUISITION OF LAND AND RIGHTS 
8 
6. 
CONSENT FOR THE CONNECTION WORKS 
9 
7. 
CONCLUSION 
10 
 
 
88086924.1\cb57 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
88086924.1\cb57 
3 
1. 
INTRODUCTION 
1.1 
Millbrook Power Limited (MPL) is seeking to develop a gas fired power 
station at Rookery South Pit located near the villages of Stewartby, 
Millbrook, Lidlington and Marston Moretaine, Bedfordshire, referred to 
as the Millbrook Power Project.       
1.2 
The Project constitutes a Nationally Significant Infrastructure Project 
(NSIP) by virtue of section 14 (1)(a) and sections 15(1) and (2) of the 
Planning Act 2008 (PA 2008) which includes within the definition of an 
NSIP any onshore generating station in England or Wales of 50 MWe 
capacity or more. Under section 31 of the PA 2008 a development 
consent order (DCO) is required to develop a NSIP. Under section 37 of 
the PA 2008, the DCO can only be granted if an application is made for 
it to the Secretary of State (SoS) (the DCO Application).  
1.3 
The Project would comprise: 
I. 
a new Power Generation Plant in the form of an Open Cycle 
Gas Turbine (OCGT) peaking power generating station, fuelled 
by natural gas with a rated electrical output of up to 299 MW.  
This is the output of the generating station as a whole, 
measured at the terminals of the generating equipment. The 
Power Generation Plant comprises: 
(a) 
generating equipment including one Gas Turbine 
Generator with one exhaust gas flue stack and Balance 
of Plant (together referred to as the 'Generating 
Equipment'), which are located within the 'Generating 
Equipment Site'; 
(b) 
a new purpose built access road from Green Lane to 
the Generating Equipment Site (the 'Access Road' or 
the ‘Short Access Road’);  
(c) 
a temporary construction compound required during 
construction only (the 'Laydown Area'); 
II. 
a new underground gas pipeline connection, approximately 1.8 
km in length (the ‘Pipeline’) to bring natural gas to the 
Generating Equipment from the National Transmission System 
(the ‘Gas Connection’). The Gas Connection also incorporates 
an Above Ground Installation (AGI) at the point of connection to 
the National Transmission System; and 
III. 
a new electrical connection to export power from the 
Generating 
Equipment 
to 
the 
National 
Grid 
Electricity 
Transmission System (NETS) (the ‘Electrical Connection’), 
comprising an underground double circuit Tee-in. This would 
require one new tower (which will replace an existing tower and 
be located in the existing Grendon – Sundon transmission route 
88086924.1\cb57 
4 
corridor, thereby resulting in no net additional towers). This 
option would require two SECs, one located on each side of the 
existing transmission line, and both circuits would then be 
connected via underground cables approximately 500 m in 
length to a new substation (the ‘Substation’). 
1.4 
The Generating Equipment, Access Road and Construction Laydown 
Area are together known as the ‘Power Generation Plant’ and are 
located within the ‘Power Generation Plant Site’. The Power Generation 
Plant Site is approximately 12.5 ha in area. 
1.5 
The Power Generation Plant, Gas Connection, and Electrical 
Connection, together with all access requirements are referred to as the 
‘Project’. The land upon which the Project would be developed, or which 
would be required in order to facilitate the development of the Project, is 
referred to as the ‘Project Site’. The Project Site is approximately 48 ha 
in area. 
1.6 
Paragraph 4.9.1 of the Overarching Energy National Policy Statement 
for Energy (EN-1) emphasises that it is for the Applicant to ensure that 
there will be necessary infrastructure and capacity in the transmission 
and distribution network to accommodate the electricity to be generated 
by a proposed new power plant. 
1.7 
Section 37 of the PA 2008 governs the content of an application for a 
development consent order, including the requirements for the 
necessary accompanying documents specified in the Infrastructure 
Planning (Applications: Prescribed Forms and Procedure) Regulations 
2009 (APFP Regulations). 
1.8 
This Grid Connection Statement accompanies the DCO Application and 
has been prepared to comply with Regulation 6(1)(a)(i) of the APFP 
Regulations, which requires the Applicant to provide a statement of who 
will be responsible for designing and building the connection to the 
electricity grid.  
1.9 
A glossary of defined terms is presented in Document Reference 1.4. 
88086924.1\cb57 
5 
 
2. 
PROJECT SUMMARY 
2.1 
The Generating Equipment would operate as a OCGT peaking plant 
and would be designed to provide an electrical output of up to 299 
Megawatts electrical (MWe). The plant would be fuelled by natural gas, 
supplied to the Generating Equipment Site by a new Pipeline 
connecting the Generating Equipment to the existing National Gas 
Transmission System.  The Gas Connection is described in detail in the 
Gas Connection Statement (Document Reference: 9.2).   
2.2 
Peaking plants are required to operate when there is a surge in demand 
for electricity associated with a particular event (e.g. where many 
people across the country boil kettles following the end of a popular 
television programme) or where there is a sudden drop in power being 
generated from plant which are constantly operational (e.g. a sudden 
outage). 
2.3 
Operating as a peaking plant, the Generating Equipment would also 
help to ‘balance out’ the grid at times of peak electricity demand and will 
help to support the grid at times when other technologies (e.g. wind and 
solar farms) cannot generate electricity due to their intermittent 
operation and reliance on weather conditions.  Peaking plants are 
therefore vital in ‘evening out’ the power in the grid system.  The 
Generating Equipment would operate intermittently for up to 2,250 
hours per year. This could be at any time during the year and for any 
length of time up to but not exceeding 2,250 hours and not exceeding 
1,500 hours on a 5 year rolling average.  
2.4 
The Generating Equipment will supply electricity to the NETS operated 
by National Grid Electricity Transmission PLC (NGET), NGET holds a 
transmission licence issued pursuant to the Electricity Act 1989. 
2.5 
The Project is more fully described in Chapter 3 of the Environmental 
Statement (Document Reference: 6.1). 
88086924.1\cb57 
6 
3. 
CONTRACTUAL AGREEMENTS  
3.1 
NGET owns and manages the NETS in England and Wales.   
3.2 
Applicants must secure connection with NGET if constructing a 
generating station if they want the output of that power station to be 
distributed across the national transmission system (certain power 
stations are used "on-site" only whilst others connect into the local 
distribution network).   
3.3 
MPL signed a Bilateral Connection Agreement and Construction 
Agreement with NGET on 2nd October 2017 (the Connection Agreement 
Offer) to connect the Generating Equipment to the NETS.  
3.4 
The Connection Agreement provides the Generating Equipment with a 
connection to the NETS in September 2022. 
3.5 
As such, MPL can confirm that output of the Generating Equipment will 
be exported via the NETS. 
88086924.1\cb57 
7 
4. 
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR DESIGNING AND BUILDING THE GRID 
CONNECTION 
4.1 
For the Electrical Connection, the Substation and (underground) Cables 
would export electricity from the Generating Equipment. The Cables 
would then connect to the SEC(s) which would bring the Cables above 
ground and connect via downleads to the replacement tower which will 
be part of the existing NETS. This will complete the connection between 
the Generating Equipment and the NETS.  
4.2 
The Electrical Connection would connect into the existing National Grid 
double circuit 400 kV line (part of the NETS) which runs from Sundon to 
Grendon. The 400 kV line is located approximately 320 m southwest of 
the Generating Equipment Site.  
4.3 
In conjunction with the construction of the Electrical Connection a 
temporary diversion of the existing 400 kV line located adjacent to the 
three most westerly existing transmission towers within the Project Site 
would be required. It is anticipated that the temporary diversion is likely 
to be constructed as a single circuit outage of the existing 400 kV line. 
The temporary work is likely to require mast(s) or temporary tower(s), of 
up to 55 m in height. The temporary works are also likely to include the 
temporary erection of scaffolding over Station Lane for the protection of 
road users whilst the diversion is installed.  
4.4 
At this stage, it is anticipated that the installing and dismantling of the 
temporary works may require the temporary closure of Station Lane for 
up to approximately 1 day on two separate occasions and that the 
temporary diversion of the existing 400 kV line would be in place for 
approximately five months 
4.5 
Further information on the Electrical Connection and the alternative 
means of connection that have been considered is contained Chapter 5 
of the Environmental Statement (Document Reference 6.1).  
4.6 
An explanation of consultation feedback received on the Electrical 
Connection and how this feedback has been considered is contained in 
the Consultation Report (Document Reference: 5.1).  
4.7 
Pursuant to the Connection Agreement Offer, NGET has agreed to be 
responsible for the detailed design and construction of the Electrical 
Connection including the temporary diversion works. Design work by 
NGET in relation to the temporary diversion works is ongoing. The 
environmental effects of the temporary diversion works have been 
considered as part of the assessment of the Project that is set out in the 
Environmental Statement (Document Reference 6.1). 
4.8 
As such, MPL considers signing the Connection Agreement Offer 
secures the design and build of the Electrical Connection. 
88086924.1\cb57 
8 
5. 
ACQUISITION OF LAND AND RIGHTS  
5.1 
MPL has an option agreement in place to purchase the freehold and 
rights over the land on which the Electrical Connection will be located. 
The option agreement was signed on 16 July 2014 with O&H Q7 
Limited. 
5.2 
As explained in the Statement of Reasons (Document Reference 4.1) 
MPL is also seeking powers via its draft  DCO to compulsorily acquire 
land and rights and impose restrictions to allow MPL to construct, use 
and maintain the Electrical Connection, as well as providing for powers 
of temporary use relating to the construction of the temporary diversion 
works.  
5.3 
These powers are set out in Part 5 of the Draft DCO and apply to Works 
No. 5, 6 and 7.  These are fully described in the Book of Reference 
(Document Reference 4.3) and are justified in the Statement of 
Reasons (Document Reference 4.1). 
5.4 
On this basis, MPL considers that all land and rights would be in place 
pursuant to its Option Agreement and/or via any powers of compulsory 
purchase that it may be granted in the draft DCO (Document Reference 
3.1) in order to deliver numbered Works No. 5 and 6.  
5.5 
The powers that MPL is seeking to temporarily use land pursuant to the 
draft DCO (Document Reference 3.1) would allow it to deliver the 
temporary diversion works (Work No. 7). 
 
88086924.1\cb57 
9 
6. 
CONSENT FOR THE CONNECTION WORKS 
6.1 
The Electrical Connection (including the temporary diversion works) 
forms part of the Project for which development consent is being sought 
via the DCO Application. The Draft DCO provides at Article 6 for the 
exercise of the powers in relation to the Electrical Connection by NGET 
to allow NGET to construct, operate and maintain these works.  
6.2 
As such, MPL considers that, if the DCO is granted on substantively the 
same terms as those set out in the draft DCO (Document Reference 
3.1) then development consent for the Electrical Connection will have 
been secured. 
88086924.1\cb57 
10 
7. 
CONCLUSION 
7.1 
MPL is required to submit a statement pursuant to regulation 6 of the 
APFP Regulations confirming "who will be responsible for designing 
and building the connection to the electricity grid". 
7.2 
MPL considers that this statement provides confirmation to the 
Secretary of State that: 
7.2.1 
MPL has secured agreement with NGET regarding connection 
of its up to 299 MW output from the Generating Equipment to 
the NETS; 
7.2.2 
The Connection Agreement provides that NGET will design and 
build the Electrical Connection; 
7.2.3 
MPL has secured the necessary land and rights to allow NGET 
to construct numbered works 5 and 6 and is seeking powers of 
temporary use under the draft DCO to secure the construction 
of the temporary diversion works; 
7.2.4 
In including the Electrical Connection (including the temporary 
diversion works) as numbered works 5, 6 and 7 in the draft 
DCO, MPL would, if the draft DCO was made on substantively 
the same terms as those out in the draft DCO (Document 
Reference 3.1). have secured development consent for the 
Electrical Connection. 
 
