i 
 
        
 
 
Working Group on Capacity Building 
Activity Group 4 - Towards Sustainable Modern Wood Energy 
Development  
 
Collection of examples: 
Positive Relationships between Sustainable Wood 
Energy and Forest Landscape Restoration  
June 2020 
 
i 
 
Acknowledgements 
This report represents a contribution to the scope of work of the Global Bioenergy Partnership (GBEP) 
Activity Group 4 “Towards Sustainable Modern Wood Energy Development” of the Working Group on 
Capacity Building (WGCB), under the thematic area of ‘Woody biomass for Forest Landscape 
Restoration and sustainable livelihoods’. It was developed by Constance Miller and Tiziana Pirelli of 
the GBEP Secretariat, under the overall supervision of Maria Michela Morese, GBEP Executive 
Secretary, and with the support of Olivier Dubois (FAO), AG4 leader. 
The document has been developed based on the contributions from Partners and Observers of GBEP, 
as well as external experts. GBEP would like to express its appreciation to all colleagues that actively 
and generously contributed to the development of this report. The authors, responsible for the 
information contained in each example, can be found in the corresponding section. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Images on cover page: Lourdes Gonzales Soria, UNA, 2018; Tiziana Pirelli, 2015; James Gitau, ICRAF; 
UNIUD, 2012; Kevin Standlee, 2019. 
 
1 
 
Contents 
Acknowledgements .................................................................................................................................. i 
Introduction ............................................................................................................................................ 3 
WOOD ENERGY VALUE CHAINS 
The EverGreen Bioenergy Carbon Capture, Utilization and Storage (EBECCUS) approach – Shrub-based 
food-energy systems ............................................................................................................................... 8 
Briquette production within the adaptive Forest Landscape Restoration plan in the Shouf Biosphere 
Reserve, Lebanon .................................................................................................................................. 13 
Forest landscape restoration through a sustainable wood energy value chain in Ghana.................... 18 
BIOMASS PRODUCTION, HARVESTING AND COLLECTION 
Potentials for bioenergy from Degraded Land in sub-Saharan Africa .................................................. 23 
Sustainable and productive private forest management in Southeast Queensland, Australia ............ 27 
Prosopis juliflora – a potential game changer in the charcoal sector in Kenya .................................... 30 
Integration of forest biomass procurement as a silvicultural tool for forest restoration in Quebec, 
Canada .................................................................................................................................................. 35 
The domestic energy strategy in Niger ................................................................................................. 40 
Positive trends in key fibre source forest landscapes of the US South ................................................ 44 
BIOENERGY PRODUCTION FROM BIOMASS 
Initiative for the production and distribution of sustainable charcoal and feedstock in Togo ............ 52 
Support for the promotion of the “Casamance improved kiln” in Togo .............................................. 58 
Sustainable charcoal production in Choma, Zambia ............................................................................ 62 
Biochar producing gasifier cooking system for enhanced fuelwood efficiency, women’s wellbeing and 
sustainable agroecosystems in Kenya .................................................................................................. 66 
DISTRIBUTION OF BIOENERGY AND BY-PRODUCTS 
 
2 
 
Deployment of biochar technology for efficient production of cooking energy and biochar in Ghana
 .............................................................................................................................................................. 73 
Conclusion ............................................................................................................................................. 77 
References ............................................................................................................................................ 78 
 
3 
 
Introduction 
The wood energy sector 
In 2017, biomass accounted for 55.6 percent of the Total Primary Energy Supply (TPES) of renewables 
(IEA, 2019), of which the forestry sector is the largest contributor with 85 percent of all biomass for 
energy purposes coming from forestry products, such as charcoal, fuelwood, pellets and wood chips 
(WBA, 2019). The use of traditional woodfuel – i.e. the inefficient use of fuelwood and charcoal for 
cooking and heating – is a large contributor to the consumption of forest biomass. Indeed, traditional 
wood energy is still the primary source of energy for many households in some parts of the world, 
most notably in Africa and Asia. The situation is particularly prominent in Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA), 
where households primarily rely on traditional biomass to fulfil their energy needs. As well as the 
many other economic, social and environmental problems attributable to the unsustainable wood 
energy value chain for traditional wood energy production and use, deforestation and landscape 
degradation can occur as demand increases and the sustainable supply of fuelwood cannot keep up. 
This can have further consequences for biodiversity and soil health. 
Forest landscape restoration 
Forest landscape restoration (FLR) is the recovery of forest landscapes through the restoration of 
ecological functionality. As its name suggests, its focus is at the landscape level, taking into 
consideration the multiple ecological, social and economic functions of landscapes and the associated 
ecosystem goods and services. The concepts of FLR are applied all over the world and approaches are 
tailored to the local contexts.  
SSA is a region of intense focus for FLR, due to the threat of desertification and the negative impacts 
on livelihoods brought about by degraded ecosystems and soils. Each year, around 6 MHa of 
productive land are lost to degradation. In this context, AFR100 is a pan-African, country-led initiative 
that seeks to address this by bringing 100 million hectares of degraded lands into restoration by 2030.   
Improving the sustainability of wood energy value chains for FLR 
The wood energy sector and FLR are inherently interlinked. Unregulated demand and markets for 
wood energy resulting in unsustainable wood use is one of the main drivers of degradation of forests 
and forested landscapes. Sustainability is therefore the major concern, and understanding the 
opportunities for sustainable wood energy production and use to contribute positively to FLR is key. 
Indeed, there are many ways to improve the sustainability of the wood energy sector to ensure that 
it positively contributes to FLR, as well as other environmental, social and economic objectives.  
Improving the sustainability of wood energy value chains can reduce pressures on natural forests 
through better management practices and improved technologies. Indeed, the sustainability of the 
wood energy can be improved across the value chain, from biomass production and transformation 
 
4 
 
to the production and use of bioenergy and its by-products. Figure 1 shows the steps in a typical wood 
energy value chain. 
Figure 1 Overview of the steps in a wood energy value chain 
 
 
It is important to highlight that, as well as options to improve the sustainability of the wood energy 
value chain itself, there are also other options for bioenergy production from other sources that 
reduce the pressures on forest resources. These include: the use of other biomass sources such as 
waste and residues from agriculture, agro-industry or urban activities; and the use of other bioenergy 
production technologies such as anaerobic digestion. Although these approaches are extremely 
relevant, they are beyond the scope of this paper. 
 
Biomass production, 
harvesting and collection
Biomass storage, distribution 
and pre-treatment
Bioenergy production from 
biomass
Distribution of bioenergy and 
by-products
Wood energy value chain 
 
5 
 
Across wood energy value chains, there are a multitude of opportunities: 
 
For biomass production, sustainable forest management is an important first 
step, including the establishment of community forests, as well as the 
conservation of protected areas. Plantations are an opportunity to remove the 
pressures on natural forests whilst maintaining biomass supply. There is also the 
opportunity to produce biomass on currently degraded lands; these plantations 
could restore lands, provide employment, ecosystem services and carbon 
storage while also supplying modern bioenergy services (IRENA, 2017). 
Agroforestry is also an attractive option. 
 
At the biomass transformation stage, improved feedstocks (such as wood 
pellets, chips or briquettes) could increase the efficiency of the value chain, thus 
reducing pressures on forests. These feedstocks could also be produced from 
wood ‘wastes’ such as those produced from the timber sawing industry, thus 
further improving the sustainability of the system. 
 
The sustainability of the wood energy value chain can also be enhanced through 
the use of improved bioenergy technologies. For traditional bioenergy, this 
includes both the methods of charcoal production and the use of fuelwood in 
homes with improved cookstoves. However, woody biomass can also be used to 
provide modern energy services through e.g. the production of electricity in co-
generation plants or the production of syngas through gasification technologies. 
 
Finally, the use of by-products can also enhance the sustainability of the system. 
For example, the biochar produced as a by-product of the gasification process 
can be used as a soil amendment to boost soil fertility, increase agricultural 
yields and therefore improve livelihoods. 
 
 
Biomass production, 
harvesting and collection 
Biomass storage, 
distribution and pre-
treatment 
Bioenergy production 
from biomass 
Distribution of bioenergy 
and by-products 
 
6 
 
Document structure 
As a first step to highlight the important linkages between wood energy and FLR, this collection 
presents examples from around of the world of projects, policies and approaches that aim to improve 
the sustainability of wood energy for a positive contribution to FLR.  
The collection includes country examples from Australia, Canada, Ghana, Lebanon, Kenya, Niger, Sri 
Lanka, Togo, USA and Zambia, as well as a regional example from SSA. These have been organised to 
follow the steps of the wood energy value chain outlined in Figure 1; examples that cover the entire 
value chain are presented first. A final concluding section draws together common lessons learned 
from these examples. 
 
7 
 
 
 
 
Wood energy 
value chains
 
8 
 
Wood energy value chains 
The EverGreen Bioenergy Carbon Capture, Utilization and Storage 
(EBECCUS) approach – Shrub-based food-energy systems 
Dennis Garrity, The Global EverGreening Alliance 
Headline 
The practice of integrated shrub-based food-energy systems using Gliricidia sepium shrubs by 
smallholder farmers in Sri Lanka has shown multiple benefits, including: enhancement of soil fertility 
and crop yields, production of biomass for energy, improvement in local livelihoods, enhancement of 
agrobiodiversity, carbon storage, and buffering the impacts of climate change, among others. 
Overview 
Geographic location:  
Type of example: 
Status:  
Sri Lanka (various locations) 
Practice 
Ongoing since 1990s 
Introduction 
Shrub-based food-energy systems simultaneously provide electricity and bioenergy for power, while 
also providing bio-fertilizers for crop production and better-quality fodder for livestock production on 
the same land area. Such systems have the potential to transform livelihoods and food security, while 
enhancing economic development and conserving the environment in rural areas across the tropics. 
These systems produce wood fuel from leguminous shrubs growing alongside the food crops in the 
same fields, and therefore no cropping area is sacrificed; rather, their presence enhances crop 
production. The regular coppicing of the shrubs (pruning to approximately 0.3 m height) allows 
optimal sunlight for the cereal crops, and it also provides the wood feedstock for power generation. 
The systems also: directly improve soil fertility and increase crop yields; provide enhanced high-quality 
livestock fodder; improve vegetative soil cover year-round; buffer crop production from drought and 
higher temperatures due to climate change; store more abundant carbon in the soil; and enhance 
agrobiodiversity. Such an integrated shrub-based food-energy system for rural electrification has 
already been commercially developed in Sri Lanka and it has been operating for many years. The 
system is based on the cultivation of nitrogen-fixing Gliricidia sepium shrubs by smallholder farmers. 
The trees are coppiced every 8 months, and the wood is used as feedstock for power generation by 
either steam turbine power plants or by gasification units (pyrolysis process). Farmers sell the wood 
to the power plant while retaining the leafy foliage for livestock feed and fertilizing their crops. These 
systems generate substantial rural employment while also regenerating the land. 
Millions of farmers are establishing leguminous shrubs and trees in their crop fields in many countries 
throughout the tropics. Farmers can establish leguminous shrubs at densities of 1000 to 5000 plants 
per hectare throughout their crop fields and grazing lands (Garrity et al., 2010). The N-rich foliage 
 
9 
 
Wood energy value chains 
dramatically increases crop yields and livestock production (Sileshi et al., 2008; Akinnifesi et al., 2010). 
These systems accumulate carbon above and below-ground in the range of 2-4 tC/ha/yr (Makumba et 
al., 2007; Kaonga and Bayliss-Smith, 2008). The shrub wood can be harvested at the end of the dry 
season for sale to local producers of electrical power, thus providing low-carbon energy with major 
co-benefits for poor rural populations of increased incomes and job creation. The potential for selling 
the surplus wood to local producers of electrical power provides an incentive to expand the cultivation 
of these valued agroforestry systems. 
In 2009, Tokyo Power constructed and commissioned a 10 MW Gliricidia sepium-fueled plant in 
Trincomalee, Sri Lanka. Following its success, they commissioned a second plant of 5 MW capacity in 
Mahiyanganaya, Sri Lanka. There are now eight Gliricidia-based power plants built and operated by 
private sector companies in Sri Lanka, and it is reported that 10 or more plants are under construction 
or in the feasibility stage. Businesses have also been developing around the promotion of Gliricidia 
poduction among smallholder farmers, such as The Biomass Group. They purchase, aggregate, process 
and market the wood chips for use by energy companies and other industries. 
This effort is strongly based on the merits of South–South cooperation and learning, to generate viable 
and successful development initiatives. It aims to facilitate the sharing of knowledge and experiences 
from Sri Lanka with interested parties across Eastern and Southern Africa, and to adapt the Sri Lankan 
experience to the African context. 
The deployment of the EverGreen Bioenergy Carbon Capture, Utilization and Storage (BECCUS) 
solution can be done in phases: 
- 
1st phase: scaling-up of fertilizer shrub systems in croplands across many countries in the 
tropics, and using the N-rich foliage for crop and livestock production, while using the wood 
for household fuelwood, local sale, charcoal-making, and briquette-making. The evergreen 
agriculture carbon capture benefits here are manifested in the build-up of soil organic carbon 
stocks, and the deflection of local deforestation, because wood fuel and timber needs are 
generated on the farm.  
- 
2nd phase: development of electrical power generation with rural power stations to electrify 
rural communities. This will induce the expansion of shrub cultivation for wood fuel at a bigger 
scale, which is the phase in which Sri Lanka is now.  
- 
3rd phase: full evergreen (EBECCUS) with flue-driven CCUS. Power stations capture the CO2 
from the burning of the biomass. This is not fully practical yet, but the costs of deploying 
ambient air CO2 capture are declining rapidly (Keith et al 2018). The concentration of carbon 
dioxide in power station smokestacks is about 300 times greater than in the ambient air, 
making this form of carbon capture increasingly viable. 
The full EBECCUS power plant solution is the ultimate state that is desired but the ‘partial’ EBECCUS 
solution of simply scaling-up evergreen agriculture systems is the practical first step toward building 
up the momentum. The 1st phase is applicable without the logistics and power plant investment 
challenges that occur in phase 2 and phase 3. Piloting power plants in many other countries besides 
Sri Lanka is the major next phase, to absorb the excess wood generated by the spread of these 
evergreen agriculture systems. 
 
10 
 
Wood energy value chains 
Sustainable Wood Energy and Forest Landscape Restoration Relationships 
Positive impacts for sustainable wood energy:  
Gliricidia shrubs are the fourth most important tree crop in Sri Lanka. This source of bioenergy is 
already providing substantial electrical power generation in the country. There are now eight shrub-
based power plants built and operated by private sector companies in the country, and 10 or more 
plants are under construction or in the feasibility stage. These electrical power generation systems are 
based on the cultivation of these nitrogen-fixing shrubs -- that capture atmospheric nitrogen for use 
as fertilizer by smallholder farmers in their crop fields.  They also sell the wood that they have 
produced to the power plants for cash income. Gliricidia is an excellent fuelwood, producing 19.8 
megajoules per kilogramme (MJ/kg), and it burns slowly with little smoke or sparks (IRENA 2017). 
There are three project models of biomass energy generation and supply: 
- 
Local: Small-scale 4kW and 9 kW gasifier systems operated by small holders and communities 
for their local power needs.  
- 
Industrial: Medium-scale systems, such as the 1 MW plant in Walapane, Sri Lanka. Private 
sector investment would build and operate these plants to supply local communities and local 
industry.  
- 
National Grid: Large-scale systems, such as the 5 or 10 MW Tokyo Power projects. Large-scale 
plants can be strategically placed to ensure feedstock and supply power to the national grid. 
Positive impacts for forest landscape restoration:  
Shrub-based food-energy systems accumulate carbon above and below-ground in the range of 2-4 
tC/ha/yr. This rate of carbon capture in soils is extraordinary, and it has many positive effects on 
improving the quality of the land for crop or tree production. The shrubs improve vegetative soil cover 
year-round, and they increase soil moisture, soil fertility and crop yields. They also buffer crop 
production from the droughts and higher temperatures that are now occurring due to climate change, 
by providing a more favourable microclimate, improve soil erosion control, and by enhancing 
biodiversity.  
Co-benefits:  
Climate change 
The EBECCUS approach has the opportunity to capture carbon not only from carbon sequestration in 
the soil (approximately 2-4 tonnes carbon/ha/y) but also from the capture of CO2 in power plants. 
Benefits to Local Communities 
The EBECCUS approach has technical and social benefits compared to the conventional renewable 
energy sources now used, such as solar energy. It can ensure a continuous supply of power that can 
be increased or decreased when needed, avoiding involuntary power fluctuations. Beyond addressing 
the challenge of electrification for rural and remote cellular base stations, these systems also 
 
11 
 
Wood energy value chains 
significantly contribute to local communities in ways that are not evident in other forms of renewable 
energy systems. 
− 
Social benefits include: increased income and employment, empowerment of rural 
communities, better food and nutrition security, and increased participation in projects by 
women, the elderly and the disabled. 
− 
Economic benefits include: improved agricultural productivity with greater food and livestock 
output, livelihood diversification for smallholder farmers, production of biofertiliser and 
biochar, increased rural business opportunities and job creation, foreign exchange savings 
from reduced use of fossil fuel, and development of rural infrastructure in off-grid and 
marginalised areas. 
− 
Environmental benefits include: reduced GHG emissions with increased sequestration of 
atmospheric carbon, reduced land degradation with increased forest coverage, reduced soil 
erosion, enrichment of soil nutrients, and reduced use of chemical fertilisers (IRENA 2017). 
Across Africa and the tropics, trees are already widely integrated into agricultural systems, and they 
are increasingly the basis for sustainably boosting maize production in countries like Malawi, Zambia 
and Kenya. In Eastern Zambia, for instance, through a major extension program implemented by the 
social enterprise COMACO, over 80 000 smallholder farm families have recently planted a total of 41 
million Gliricidia shrubs, on over 27 000 hectares of land (IRENA 2017). 
Prospects 
Key enabling factors:  
In Sri Lanka, government policy and facilitation strongly encouraged the development of Gliricidia 
biomass power solutions. The social and economic factors described above were instrumental in 
attracting the interest of hundreds of thousands of small-scale farmers in growing the shrubs for cash 
income and to benefit their agricultural production. 
Main challenges encountered:  
The major challenges to be overcome in the scaling-up of this integrated food-energy system are the 
need to attract more investment in power plant development, scaling-up agroforestry extension to 
large numbers of smallholder producers, and in synchronizing the increase in wood feedstock 
produced on farms with the supply demands of the power plants. 
Potential for scaling-up and replicability:  
The potential appears enormous for such systems to be implemented in Sub Saharan Africa.  Valuable 
lessons and experience can be sourced from the proven models in Sri Lanka, for application in the 
countries of eastern and southern Africa. 
Gliricidia is already widely distributed in farming systems throughout Africa, having been introduced 
four centuries ago from Central America. Research during the past three decades by the World 
 
12 
 
Wood energy value chains 
Agroforestry (ICRAF) and its partners has demonstrated its value as an extremely fast-growing 
nitrogen-fixing fertilizer shrub. In Malawi, Gliricidia is a major species underpinning the scaling-up of 
fertilizer trees for dramatically increasing crop yields in maize-based systems through the National 
Agroforestry Food Security Program. It is also being massively scaled-up in eastern Zambia, where 41 
million trees were planted by smallholders during 2017-8 alone. A massive scaling-up program for the 
species is also underway in Kenya. Thus, the development of food-energy electrification projects 
would be a natural extension of the evergreen agriculture shrub and crop production systems in these 
countries. The species has also been widely tested and is well-adapted for such food-energy systems 
in Tanzania, Ethiopia, Ghana, Mali, and many other countries across the African continent, showing 
the potential for massive scaling-up (IRENA, 2017).  
The mission now is to undertake a range of technical, socio-economic, market, biomass supply 
sustainability and feasibility analyses for both small-scale and large-scale Gliricidia-fueled power 
plants, and to secure investment and private sector participation in implementing integrated food-
energy projects in Sub Saharan Africa. The initiative will create broad awareness of the potential for 
these systems to be implemented in the region through publications, briefs, a web site, and dialogs 
with government and the private sector. It will expose interested parties to the Sri Lankan experience 
for Gliricidia systems, and it will create a facility for bringing investors, commercial power plant 
developers, governments and NGOs/civil society together in realizing new projects based on these 
successful models.    
Additional information 
The Global Evergreening Alliance (the Alliance) is an international non-government organisation 
(iNGO) that was established by its 35 member organizations to facilitate a collaborate approach to 
addressing the global challenges of food insecurity, rural poverty, climate change and land 
degradation, and to develop and implement long-term solutions on a globally significant scale. Its core 
members include World Agroforestry (ICRAF), World Resources Institute (WRI), World Vision, CRS, 
Oxfam, CARE International, Concern Worldwide, Conservation International, The Nature Conservancy, 
and Global Good. The Alliance’s primary focus is on sustainable agricultural intensification and the 
restoration of degraded farmland, rangelands and forest lands.  It does this through grassroots 
approaches to integrating and, where appropriate, regenerating trees into smallholder farming 
systems, pastoral systems and the community-led management of degraded forests. The Alliance’s 
core activities relate to the collaborative development and implementation of massive-scale land 
restoration programs that will enhance food security and sustainable biomass energy.    
Link: www.evergreening.org  
 
 
 
13 
 
Wood energy value chains 
Briquette production within the adaptive Forest Landscape Restoration 
plan in the Shouf Biosphere Reserve, Lebanon 
Pedro Regato (Senior Technical Advisor), Marco Pagliani (Senior Technical Advisor) and Nizar 
Hani (Manager), Shouf Biosphere Reserve 
Headline 
Setup of a briquette production plant for local communities using the biomass from coppice woodland 
thinning and pruning of olive and vine in the framework of the adaptive forest landscape management 
(FLR) plan in the Shouf Biosphere Reserve (SBR). The briquette plant is producing cheap and clean 
energy that is becoming an increasingly valued alternative to firewood and diesel, the main energy 
source in most households, and at the same time significantly abating the risk of fires. 
Outline 
Geographic location:  
Type of example: 
Status:  
Shouf Biosphere Reserve (SBR), 
Lebanon 
Specific project within a broader 
FLR program 
Ongoing since 2012 
Introduction 
The FLR plan designed for the SBR includes the management of abandoned coppice woodlands (mainly 
evergreen and broadleaf oak) with the objective of turning them into old-growth stand thereby 
increasing their ecological value. This action resulted in the production of considerable amounts of 
biomass from thinning. The setup of a briquette plant in the village of Kfarfakoud allowed to “close 
the circle” and make use of the biomass.   
The action started with a survey in November 2013 to evaluate the amount of wood that the mountain 
forests in the area around Kfarfakoud could supply to the new briquette plant. The survey focused on 
areas with less than 30 percent slope, while steeper wooded areas were discarded to avoid erosion 
problems. Studies were conducted on the forest species distribution, size, crown closure and 
exploitation strategy, as well as on the agriculture land. The forest biomass available with sustainable 
harvesting is around 1 000 tonnes/year, which represents the biomass needed to reach the maximum 
capacity of the factory in 2021, according to the business plan. The availability of olive pomace (olive 
pressing residue) that is produced every year in the area, as well as the available wood resulting from 
the fruit tree pruning, are not a limiting factor. A greater quantity of both residues is produced each 
year than what the plant could absorb; part of this surplus is used to produce compost that is donated 
to involved farmers. 
The production of the Kfarfakoud Briquettes Center and the sustainable management of the Dalboun 
Oak Forest to optimize its biomass production are helping prevent forest fires and pollution from 
 
14 
 
Wood energy value chains 
agriculture waste, and mitigate the problems caused by the CO2 emissions from fossil fuels and forest 
fires, while converting waste into an economic and rural development opportunity. 
Sustainable Wood Energy and Forest Landscape Restoration Relationships 
Positive impacts for sustainable wood energy:  
The briquettes produced in the plant can be used to provide modern bioenergy services, thus replacing 
less efficient firewood use. They are also highly competitive with the common alternatives currently 
used by most households in the village (i.e. firewood and diesel) both in terms of the Lower Calorific 
Value (LCV) and price. The LCV of the briquettes compared with other fuels is as follows:  
Table 1 Comparison on LCV and price of briquettes with alternative fuels 
Fuel 
Price/weight 
(USD/tonne) 
LCV/weight 
(kWh/tonne) 
LCV/price (kWh/USD) 
Briquettes 
175-200 
4 650 
23.3-26.6 
Olive wood 
300 
3 720 
12.4 
Oak wood 
312 
3 100 
9.9 
Diesel 
- 
- 
9.3 
As Table 1 shows, the same LCV costs 2.8 to 2.5 more times with diesel, 1.7 to 1.5 more times with 
olive wood and 1.8 to 1.56 more times with oak wood; this demonstrates the competitiveness of 
briquettes compared with other fuels. 
Positive impacts for forest landscape restoration:  
The FLR plan designed for the SBR includes the management of abandoned coppice woodlands (mainly 
evergreen and broadleaf oak) with the objective of turning them into old-growth stand, thereby 
increasing their ecological value. The thinning of the woodlands also increases the capacity of forests 
to adapt to climate change because of the reduced competition for the scarce water resources in the 
thinned forest stands. 
The buffer zone of SBR is very prone to forest fires. These take place mainly in the fall, when farmers 
prune their crops (mainly olive and vines) and the biomass burned on the spot often start fires that 
spread through the landscape. The collection of this biomass and their use for briquette production – 
mixed with woodland pruning waste – has decreased the number of autumn fires in the Reserve with 
associated benefits. This represents an economically viable use of forest/agriculture waste whose 
burning increases forest fires that devastate large areas of Lebanon every year. 
 
 
15 
 
Wood energy value chains 
Co-benefits:  
Climate change 
The production of briquettes has the following climate change mitigation values:  
- 
Reduction of CO2 emissions from fossil energy consumption (e.g. diesel for house heating) and the 
burning of forests and agriculture waste.  
- 
Increased CO2 sequestration in forest lands due to reduced incidence of forest fires. 
The thinning of the forests also enhances the ability of the forests to adapt to climate change. 
Employment and income 
The briquette plant has increased local employment and business in the briquette value chain. 
Approx. 100 daily-paid workers (USD 20/day) are involved in the gathering of biomass from October 
to April. Five workers (2 permanent, one a woman; 3 seasonal for a period of 8 months/year), with an 
average salary of USD 600/month, manage the factory. The plant produces approx. 6 000 briquettes 
per day, with the plan to increase production from 1 million briquettes in 2013 up to 5.6 million in 
2021.  
The total investment for establishing the factory was USD 200 000. The net profit is 25 percent of sales 
(profit of USD 50/tonne of briquettes with a sale price of USD 200/tonne), part of which reverts to the 
improvement of the management of the SBR and FLR implementation. At the early stages of the 
program, some of the briquettes were distributed free of charge to promote its use and gain 
acceptance by the local communities.  
Table 2 Business plan for the production of briquettes 
 
Reduction in energy cost 
The cost of energy has been reduced by more than two thirds in comparison with the average of other 
fuels, with a positive effect on the consumption and savings of the local population. 
 
16 
 
Wood energy value chains 
Health 
The burning of briquettes has also contributed to abate health problems due to the burning of diesel 
and firewood in the home. 
Rural development 
The same initiative has also supported livestock grazing as a complementary measure to the thinning 
and pruning management interventions in forest land. Local shepherds were involved in goat grazing 
interventions in the years following thinning operations as a way to prevent the regrowth of the cut 
stems and control the growth of the forest understory in high fire-risk areas, such as along the road 
network.  
Prospects 
Reasons or main drivers: 
This action is framed within the broader FLR plan designed and implemented in the SBR since 2012, 
with the aim of preserving/restoring its mosaic landscapes of old growth forests, woodlands, 
rangelands and agriculture land (traditional stonewall terraces) while increasing the resilience of the 
landscape to climate change. 
Key enabling factors: 
- 
Strong team with national and international experts covering different fields joined to design 
a comprehensive and innovative FLR plan 
- 
High reputation of SBR facilitated support by international donors (EU, international 
foundations, private sector) 
- 
Excellent network of contacts and existing cooperation enabled strong by-in from local 
stakeholders (local authorities, farmers, civil society etc.) 
Main challenges encountered: 
- 
Overcome initial scepticism by local communities especially farmers, which were required to 
actively collaborate by taking the biomass waste from their fields to the collection point, 
instead of burning it on the spots. This was overcome by establishing broader agreements 
with farmers, whereby the farmers joining the initiative would get benefits in. return, i.e. 
free compost obtained by part of the biomass collected. 
- 
Land tenure/policy issues: some forest land is owned by the State that has strict policies on 
the pruning and cutting of trees - especially pines. This was overcome by establish dialogue 
and showing the benefits of the practice on private lands. 
Potential for scaling-up and replicability: 
- 
The Kfarfakoud plan is no longer funded by SBR and it keeps working according to the rules 
established by the local market. 
 
17 
 
Wood energy value chains 
- 
The availability of biomass from forest and agriculture is much higher than what is required in 
the 10-year business plan of the factory. 
- 
The experience is being disseminated and debated at the national level in Lebanon but also 
using existing networks within the Mediterranean region. A dissemination project funded by 
the MAVA Foundation (CH) is being implemented including a number of tools (publications, 
webinars, MOOC). 
Additional information 
The project is implemented by Al Shouf Cedar Society (ACS), the organisation set up in collaboration 
with the Lebanese Ministry of the Environment to manage the SBR. ACS is an interesting mix of 
public/private bodies, which largely depends on raising funds at national and international level to run 
its programme, but also gets part of its revenues from the entrance fees to the SBR.  
Link: www.shoufcedar.org  
Publication:  
Shouf Biosphere Reserve, 2019. Forest and Landscape Restoration Guidelines. 263 pp. Available 
online: 
https://www.medforval.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/12/Forest-Landscape-Restoration-
Guidelines_Shouf_2019.pdf 
 
 
 
18 
 
Wood energy value chains 
Forest landscape restoration through a sustainable wood energy value 
chain in Ghana 
Ernest Obeng Adu, Kwabena Twumasi and Dr. Cisco Aust, GIZ 
Headline 
Project to support communities in charcoal producing regions in Ghana for rehabilitating degraded 
land and improving the efficiency of the charcoal value chain, with a view to provide recommendations 
for energy- and climate-related strategies in Ghana, including the Ghanaian Nationally Determined 
Contribution (NDC). 
Outline 
Geographic location:  
Type of example:  
Status: 
Ghana – 10 selected communities in the 
Bono East and Savanna Regions 
Specific project 
On-going (April 2019 – March 
2023) 
Introduction 
The main aim of the “Forest Landscape Restoration through sustainable wood energy value chains” 
project is to support partner institutions in Ghana to work with small entrepreneurs and organized 
charcoal producer groups of several communities in charcoal producing regions to restore forest 
landscapes. Ten charcoal-producing communities in the Bono East and Savannah regions of Ghana 
have been identified by the project. Here, measures for afforestation for sustainable energy wood 
production on degraded land, rehabilitation of degraded forest landscapes, and improvement of the 
energy efficient use of energy wood and charcoal are implemented. 
Since its commencement in 2019, the project has so far raised the following lessons:  
- 
It is crucial to obtain the commitment from leaders and relevant stakeholders to create the 
enabling environment needed for effective sustainable measures in the wood energy value 
chain.  
- 
It is important to have a wood fuel regulation regime because the absence of regulations 
makes it difficult to implement sustainable measures. For instance, it is very difficult to 
encourage the production of charcoal from woodlots when wood can easily be harvested from 
natural forests.  
- 
The presence of incentives for a sustainable production of charcoal could encourage more 
actors to also establish woodlots and construct improved kilns for a sustainable production of 
charcoal.  
- 
Additionally, awareness creation is also vital among all value chain actors and relevant 
stakeholders about the importance of sustainable charcoal production. Lastly, the capacities 
of actors should be built in the areas like improved sustainable wood sourcing, transportation, 
 
19 
 
Wood energy value chains 
financial access and managements, marketing, efficient kiln technologies and improved 
cooking stoves. 
Sustainable Wood Energy and Forest Landscape Restoration Relationships 
Positive impacts for sustainable wood energy:  
– 
A total of 300 hectares of degraded land are used in the 10 selected communities to produce 
wood energy through the planting of woodlots. 
– 
The energy-efficient use of wood energy is improved in 4 selected communities through the 
improvement in the wood energy values chain and the introduction of improved kilns  
– 
Recommendations for the improvement of the wood energy value chain are discussed in the 
Ghanaian process of modification/reformulation of energy- and climate-relevant strategies. 
– 
The recommendations for improving the wood energy value chain are being integrated into 
the process of updating the Ghanaian Nationally Determine Contributions (NDC). 
Positive impacts for forest landscape restoration:  
– 
A total of 700 hectares of natural forests and agroforestry areas are rehabilitated in the 10 
selected communities 
– 
The Ghanaian approach to sustainable and efficient wood energy production in connection 
with the restoration of natural forests and agroforest areas is well-known in the West Africa 
region 
– 
Biodiversity will be improved in the project area due to enrichment planting and farmer 
managed natural regeneration (FMNR) 
– 
Community members will be trained in restoration techniques and management plans will be 
developed 
Co-benefits:  
– 
Improvement of wildfire management at the community level. 
– 
Income for community member through restoration and sustainable wood energy activities. 
– 
Expected carbon Sequestration is around 28 000 t CO2 eq. 
Prospects 
Key enabling factors:  
The project fulfils the great need to improve the sustainability of the charcoal value chain in Ghana, 
given the high and still increasing demand for wood fuel (both firewood and charcoal) in Ghana. The 
existing charcoal value chain causes high deforestation and degradation especially in Central and 
North-Ghana to satisfy this demand for wood fuel. Furthermore, charcoal is mainly produced with 
traditional earth mound kilns with a low efficiency and therefore with a high consumption on wood. 
The charcoal business provides a significant source income to charcoal value chain actors and is 
therefore an integral part of rural livelihoods in these areas. 
 
 
20 
 
Wood energy value chains 
The project is further supported by: 
– 
Commitment and support from relevant government institutions i.e. Ministries of Land and 
Natural Resources, Ministry of Energy, Forestry Commission, Energy Commission, 
Environment Protection Agencies, etc.; 
– 
Availability of favourable aligning national strategies and policies e.g. REDD+ Strategy, Ghana 
Forest Planation Strategy, Ghana Forest Development Master Plan, Ghana Bioenergy 
Strategy, Strategic National Energy Plan, commitment to the AFR 100 initiative, etc.; 
– 
Strong interest and willingness from participating communities; and 
– 
Close collaboration with Civil Society Organisations (CSOs). 
Main challenges encountered:  
After just one year since the project began, the following challenges have been identified: 
– 
Lack of regulation in the wood fuel sector; 
– 
Prevalence of wildfire; and 
– 
Lack of incentives for community woodlot and plantation establishment. 
Potential for scaling-up and replicability: 
The Ghanaian charcoal value chain is a vibrant one and provides income for many actors (producers, 
aggregators/off-takers, retailers, transporters, etc.) along the chain. A study by Brobbey et al. (2019) 
on the economic importance of charcoal to rural livelihoods has shown that charcoal is the second 
primary source of income after crop production, and accounts for 17 percent of the total household 
income. The study also found charcoal production appears to be the most frequently mentioned 
coping strategy against shocks associated with crop failure, illness and cattle invasion. 
In Accra, around 470 000 households consume charcoal, and in Kumasi about 443 000 households. It 
is expected that population growth, especially in the cities, and economic development will increase 
the demand for charcoal by 2050 to 2.8 million tons (Energy Commission of Ghana, 2017). 
Thus, charcoal production will continue to play a vital role in the economic situation of charcoal 
producing communities and provide income for these actors for a very long time. Therefore, an 
improved and sustainable charcoal value chain is crucial to the sustainability of the livelihoods of the 
actors and the protection of natural forests which is what the project seeks to achieve. 
The scalability and the replicability of the project is very feasible especially within Sub-Saharan Africa 
since charcoal is set to remain an important energy source throughout Sub-Saharan Africa in the 
foreseeable future (Schure et al., 2019). It is therefore very important that the sustainability of the 
value chain within Sub-Saharan Africa is guaranteed. 
Additional information 
The project is implemented by Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) GmbH 
and funded by the Federal Ministry for the Environment, Nature Conservation and Nuclear Safety 
(BMU) of Germany through the International Climate Initiative (IKI). It is a EUR 4.5 million project that 
began in 2019.  
 
21 
 
Wood energy value chains 
Link: 
https://www.international-climate-initiative.com/en/details/project/forest-landscape-
restoration-through-sustainable-wood-energy-value-chains-19_III_077-
3028?cookieName=search_results&iki_lang=en&source=single&cHash=c512db9126f1df8f4294d728
91fa4f5c 
 
22 
 
 
 
Biomass 
production, 
harvesting and 
collection
 
23 
 
Biomass production, harvesting and collection 
Potentials for bioenergy from Degraded Land in sub-Saharan Africa 
Toshimasa Masuyama, International Renewable Energy Agency (IRENA) 
Headline 
75 million hectares of restoration pledged under the African Forest Landscape initiative (AFR100) in 
sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) could yield around six exajoules per year of primary bioenergy. 
Overview 
Geographic location:  
Type of example:  
Status: 
Sub-Saharan Africa countries (with country-level 
analysis for Kenya and Rwanda) 
Study 
Finalised in 2017 
Introduction 
As of March 2017, 18 SSA countries had pledged a total of 75.36 million hectares under the African 
Forest Landscape initiative (AFR100). A study was conducted by IRENA in cooperation with Utrecht 
University to assess the sustainable potential of biomass for energy from the restoration of degraded 
land pledged to the AFR100 initiative.  
This study aims to provide a methodology using ROAM (Restoration Opportunities Assessment 
Methodology) to estimate the yields of all Bonn Challenge pledges. During a ROAM assessment, 
different facets of the restoration opportunity are explored. The total magnitude of restoration 
opportunity in an area is calculated taking social, economic and ecological factors into consideration. 
The assessment ascertains the different types of restoration and specific sites in a particular country. 
The costs and benefits of different restoration strategies are evaluated. Finally, ROAM identifies the 
important stakeholders and the policy, financial and social incentives in place or required to support 
restoration efforts. 
The study concluded that these 75 million hectares of restoration pledged under the AFR100 could 
yield around six exajoules per year of primary bioenergy, assuming that the entire amount of land 
pledged were dedicated to bioenergy crops, and these pledges were fulfilled on land with the highest 
potential yield. 
After the analysis for Sub-Saharan Africa as a whole, a country level analysis was conducted for Kenya 
and Rwanda because the assessments based on the ROAM have been completed for these two 
countries. 
The result of the assessment study was presented in a report entitled “Bioenergy from Degraded Land 
in Africa: Sustainable and technical potential under Bonn Challenge pledges” in 2017. 
 
 
24 
 
Biomass production, harvesting and collection 
Sustainable Wood Energy and Forest Landscape Restoration Relationships 
Positive impacts for sustainable wood energy:  
The analysis shows that around 6 EJ of primary energy per year could in theory be sustainably 
extracted from short rotation woody crops (SRWC) cultivated on land pledged for restoration under 
the AFR100. This proportion would account for 87 percent of total primary energy supply (TPES) 
projected in 2050 for the 18 countries studied.  However, this assumes bioenergy crops will be planted 
on the entire pledged area and that the most productive land will be selected to plant such crops. If 
bioenergy crops were planted on just 63 percent of the area pledged (the average intention in the 
current country plans), and if the most degraded land were selected instead of the highest yielding, 
the amount of energy extracted would amount only to around 1.8 EJ per year – 25 percent of TPES. 
Positive impacts for forest landscape restoration:  
Growing bioenergy crops on degraded land – especially perennial crops – could significantly increase 
the productivity of the land and would have little negative impact on biodiversity and GHG balance. 
Sustainable biomass production for energy could also stimulate the Bonn Challenge and could improve 
the economic sustainability of projects undertaken while mitigating more GHG by replacing fossil 
fuels. Furthermore, the extra financial incentive arising from bioenergy crop production could increase 
the likelihood that the Bonn Challenge succeeds. 
Countries that make pledges to the Bonn Challenge usually do this by stating number of hectares to 
be restored without providing details on the location or type of restoration. Conducting a study using 
ROAM provides more insight into the possible restoration strategy. 
The ROAM reports of Rwanda and Kenya show significant potential of restoration activity that could 
support bioenergy feedstock production. Kenya identifies 1.8 Mha for agroforestry under a 
conservative scenario, while another 0.4 Mha is eligible for commercial plantations. Rwanda identifies 
1.1 Mha to be restored through agroforestry, while another 0.25 Mha consists of existing eucalyptus 
plantations with the potential to be improved. 
The ROAM assessment conducted in Rwanda generated six restoration interventions consisting of 1) 
new agroforestry on steeply sloping land, 2) new agroforestry on flat and gently sloping land, 3) 
improved management of existing eucalyptus woodlots, 4) improved management of existing pine 
timber plantations, 5) protection and restoration of existing protected forest and 6) establishment or 
improvement of protected forests on sensitive sites. The assessment indicated the first three 
restoration options are relevant to feedstock production for bioenergy, summing up to 1.37 Mha out 
of a total restoration opportunity of 1.52 Mha. 
The ROAM assessment was also carried out in Kenya which generated seven restoration interventions 
consisting of 1) reforestation and afforestation of natural forests, 2) rehabilitation of degraded natural 
forest, 3) agroforestry on cropland, 4) commercial plantations on marginal cropland and un-stocked 
 
25 
 
Biomass production, harvesting and collection 
plantation forests, 5) buffer zones along water bodies and wetlands, 6) buffer zones along roads and 
7) restoration of degraded rangelands. The assessment found the third and fourth options to be 
appropriate for producing feedstock for bioenergy, amounting to 2.2 Mha out of a total restoration 
opportunity of 5.1 Mha. 
Co-benefits:  
Using land with zero or little previous productivity can contribute to social and economic development 
in rural regions. In Africa, additional bioenergy production could generate further benefits by 
lightening the burden of energy insecurity so typical of the region while generating employment and 
income, thereby reducing poverty. 
Prospects 
Reasons or main drivers: 
Using degraded land to produce bioenergy may avoid problems related to land use change because 
this type of land is usually unsuited to and economically unattractive for food crops. 
Key enabling factors:  
SRWC is especially well suited to landscape restoration because it can grow on non-prime agricultural 
land and could provide different ecosystem services. SRWC could increase soil carbon sequestration, 
reduce soil degradation processes such as water and wind erosion and improve wildlife habitat. 
Main challenges encountered:  
Difficult growing conditions mean that establishing perennial energy crops on such land will require 
sustained effort over many years. Even then, the expected yields in these areas will be lower than on 
high-quality land. Furthermore, these degraded sites are often an essential resource for poor rural 
communities. Though degraded, land may still produce useful amounts of food and animal feed that 
could be displaced by wood crops, which are often considered an alternative. Restoration with wood 
crops should be planned in such a way that supplements rather than displaces more important uses 
with higher markets or other value. 
In addition, prioritising the restoration of land with relatively low yield potential could divert attention 
from other action that could more effectively improve the overall efficiency of land use. Examples 
included increasing the yields on existing cropland and reducing the demand for land-intensive 
products. 
Potential for scaling-up and replicability:  
Studies investigating the potential for bioenergy in more detail at a national level should be conducted 
when ROAM assessments become available. However, more accurate and detailed input data on land 
degradation and availability are required as well in order to conduct meaningful country-level studies. 
 
26 
 
Biomass production, harvesting and collection 
This will involve primary field research. Economic and social factors should be included as well as 
environmental sustainability. Involving local stakeholders in the process is important because land 
restoration should respect their rights and provide them with benefits. Incorporating bioenergy 
potential assessments into future ROAM studies is a possibility worth considering, since the ROAM 
studies engage with local stakeholders. 
Additional information 
IRENA is an intergovernmental organisation that supports countries in their transition to a sustainable 
energy future, and serves as the principal platform for international cooperation, a centre of 
excellence, and a repository of policy, technology, resource and financial knowledge on renewable 
energy. 
Publication: 
IRENA, 2017. Bioenergy from Degraded Land in Africa: Sustainable and technical potential under Bonn 
Challenge 
pledges. 
IRENA, 
Abu 
Dhabi. 
ISBN 
978-92-9260-050-1 
Available 
at : 
https://www.irena.org/publications/2017/Dec/Bioenergy-from-degraded-land-in-Africa 
 
 
 
27 
 
Biomass production, harvesting and collection 
Sustainable and productive private forest management in Southeast 
Queensland, Australia 
Dr Michael Berry, Forest Research Institute, University of the Sunshine Coast, Australia  
Headline 
Integrated land management strategies that include biomass recovery for the wood energy market 
can increase biomass quality and supply, reduce owner risk, provide up to a six-fold increase in return 
and mitigate operational and fire hazards, thus promoting wider adoption of private native forest 
growing schemes in the region. 
Overview 
Geographic 
location:  
Type of example:  
Status:  
Queensland, 
Australia 
Research project  
Ongoing – first phase to be completed by the end of 
2020.  
Introduction 
Integrated land management strategies can increase biomass quality and supply, reduce owner risk, 
provide a return and mitigate operational and fire hazards. 
Biomass harvesting can be an effective way to enable more sustainable and productive forest 
management silvicultural regimes. The viability of emerging biomass markets is highly dependent on 
establishment of appropriate and flexible operational and supply chain designs. 
A diverse supply of biomass is required to sustain a resilient regional bioeconomy. Furthermore, the 
establishment of a sustainable regionally-oriented bioeconomy depends on cooperation and 
transparency from private land owners, contractors and industry.  
Within the private native forest sector, however, there is currently little information related to 
resource availability. This research project focuses on evaluating the economic and operational 
feasibility of biomass recovery to enable the viability of silvicultural interventions prompting more 
productive forest management in the region. It evaluates the quality and quantity of material available 
for biomass markets allowing for more sustainable market planning. This project is exploratory in 
nature as it evaluates the potential for future integrated active forest management strategies. 
 
 
 
28 
 
Biomass production, harvesting and collection 
Sustainable Wood Energy and Forest Landscape Restoration Relationships 
Positive impacts for sustainable wood energy:  
The project will have positive impacts for sustainable wood energy as it will: 
- 
Help enable material that was previously considered a logging waste by-product to be used as 
feedstock for the wood energy market, thus greatly increasing supply capability.  
- 
Provide an assessment around the potential for different grades of biomass including low 
quality wood energy fuel as well as the potential for higher quality co-products. 
- 
Support the burgeoning local bioeconomy, creating new local jobs in resource management 
and commercial product development using a previous waste material 
Positive impacts for forest landscape restoration:  
Biomass recovery in the private native resource would enable the economic viability of key silvicultural 
treatments, which would:  
- 
Enable more effective management of the private native resource, potentially improving 
productivity and increasing sustainable yield (up to a six-fold increase in yield and returns for 
private landowners). 
- 
Provide for more accessible grazing land, increasing the effective usage of silvi-pastoral 
systems. 
- 
Promote wider adoption of private native forest growing schemes in the region, providing 
enhanced ecological and habitat benefits to native species. 
- 
Potentially reduce the likelihood and severity of bushfires. 
Co-benefits:  
- 
Alleviate the anticipated shortfall in domestic hardwood supply by increasing timber 
availability, supporting the long-term viability of the regional timber industry. 
- 
Promote local jobs, enable domestic hardwood industry resiliency, utilisation of a waste 
product, development of new local supply chains. 
- 
Lower carbon emissions by the substitution of fossil fuels by renewable wood fuels  
- 
Potential reduction in utility costs (and risk of future increases) for biomass consumers 
compared with high cost for electricity and heat generation by fossil fuels. 
Prospects 
Reasons or main drivers: 
- 
Dynamic policy considerations surrounding private native forest resource availability and 
trends (namely a state-wide moratorium on public native forest harvesting planned in the 
next 5 years). 
- 
Need for economic and operational sustainability of broader industry (existing hardwood 
markets). 
 
29 
 
Biomass production, harvesting and collection 
- 
Current practices in private native forests involve periodic harvesting to remove the best 
trees, leaving a high proportion of trees that are of little productive value, which limits 
sustainable timber supply (only 5 percent currently actively managed). 
- 
There exists interest from across the supply chain in the development of more effective 
management systems and the higher utilisation of waste materials. 
- 
Emerging biomass markets are actively soliciting high quality wood feedstocks. 
Key enabling factors: 
- 
Regional interest from all aspects of the supply chain (growers, contractors, end users), and 
support from all sectors has greatly contributed to the likelihood of success. 
- 
Key support from contractors willing to test and trial novel methods to enable better 
management of resource and biomass utilization. 
- 
Magnitude of logical benefits from better management of resource (financial, regional 
economy, waste reduction, energy production, grazing, etc.). 
Main challenges encountered: 
- 
Broader state and federal policy considerations and trends promoting an element of 
planning uncertainty. 
- 
Private land owners are generally an unconnected cohort of individuals generally 
disinterested in structural change to management practices.  
- 
Transportation distances moving feedstock can prohibit economical utilization of material. 
- 
Lack of forest management skills (due to focus on the grazing enterprise). 
- 
Financial and time constraints limiting investment in thinning and silvicultural treatments. 
- 
A lack of cost-neutral or cost-effective mechanical thinning regimes. 
- 
Challenges related to the development of a new supply chain and connecting key partners. 
- 
Conceptually viewing traditionally non-commercial material as a product within the value 
chain. 
Potential for scaling-up and replicability:  
Similar conditions exist for more effective resource management throughout Australia, especially in 
rural communities. Key enablers to replicability of biomass markets include access to locally derived 
consumers of feedstock for fuel and/or access to ports and critical infrastructure for efficient and 
cost-effective transportation of raw or processed feedstocks to end markets. 
Replication of studies and connecting of supply chain players continues in Queensland, Victoria and 
New South Wales, Australia. 
Additional information 
This example is based on a research project led the University of the Sunshine Coast in collaboration 
with the Private Forest Service Queensland (PFSQ) and GMT Logging, with key funding coming from 
each collaborator and IEA Bioenergy. 
 
 
 
30 
 
Biomass production, harvesting and collection 
Prosopis juliflora – a potential game changer in the charcoal sector in 
Kenya 
Phosiso Sola, Mary Njenga, Grace Koech, Erick O. Wanjira, Moses Kirimi, Ignatius Siko and Mieke 
Bourne, World Agroforestry Centre (ICRAF) 
Headline 
The management and utilisation of the invasive species, Prosopis juliflora, along with the optimisation 
of charcoal production efficiency, can improve livelihoods and the environment. 
Overview 
Geographic location: 
Type of example:  
Status:  
The intervention is being implemented in three sites in 
Marigat sub-county, Baringo County, Kenya.  
Project 
 
Ongoing – 2018 
to 2021. 
Introduction 
Woodfuel remains the major energy source for cooking and heating for more than 60 percent of 
people in Kenya (MoE and CCAK, 2019). Though charcoal and firewood are renewable forms of energy, 
their unsustainable production and inefficient utilization pose environmental and health challenges 
(FAO, 2017a). For instance, in Kenya about 40 percent of the woodfuel is sourced unsustainably and 
over 90 percent of charcoal is produced using traditional kilns with low conversion rates ranging 
between 10 and 15 percent (Drigo et al., 2015: MoE and CCAK 2019). The carbon footprint of 
unsustainably produced charcoal along its whole life cycle is 6-9 kgCO2eq, which has climate change 
consequences (FAO, 2017b). Thus, there is an urgent need to seek sustainable sourcing solutions, 
which include management and utilisation of invasive species like Prosopis juliflora.  
Prosopis juliflora, locally known as ‘mathenge’, is a shrub or small tree that is native to Mexico, South 
America and the Caribbean, and is an invasive species in Kenya. In Kenya, Prosopis juliflora was 
introduced from 1973 through to the 1980s to arid and semi-arid areas to mitigate desertification and 
fuel wood shortages (Pimentel et al., 2000; Masakha & Wagulo, 2015). The species was preferred 
because of its resilience, drought tolerance and fast growth (Meyerhoff, 1991). However, it is 
aggressively invading about 500-1300 ha per year, causing land use and land cover change, and losses 
of grasslands, woodlands, croplands, grazing lands and settlements, especially in Turkana, Baringo, 
Garissa, Tana River and Taita Taveta Counties (Mbaabu et al., 2019; Eckert et al., 2020). By 2016, 
Prosopis juliflora had invaded 2 percent of Kenyan drylands, covering 18 792 hectares in Baringo 
County alone. In this County, Prosopis juliflora coverage is estimated to have increased by almost 
4 percent or 640 ha per year since 2002 (Mbaabu et al., 2019). In Marigat Sub-County, Ng’ambo is the 
most highly invaded, whilst Ilchamus and Loboi are relatively less affected. 
 
31 
 
Biomass production, harvesting and collection 
Thus, management and utilization of the current 18 792 ha of Prosopis juliflora in Baringo County for 
charcoal production using improved kilns and effective transportation and marketing presents 
potential for improving livelihoods and the environment (Mbaabu et al., 2019). Various technologies 
with high charcoal conversion efficiencies of about 30 percent have been adapted and/or developed 
by Kenya Forest Research Institute (KEFRI) and other institutions. However, studies have shown that 
uptake of these improved technologies has been very low due to several factors such as lack of 
information and skills, as well as high costs (Kitheka et al., 2017). 
Management by utilisation of the estimated 37 million ha of this invasive species spread across several 
counties in Kenya can provide timber, poles, firewood, charcoal and fodder, among other benefits. 
Improving kiln efficiency will optimise use of Prosopis juliflora for charcoal, reduce pressure and retain 
trees on the landscape for climate change mitigation and other ecosystem services and products. 
Formalised and legal production and trade in charcoal based on sustainable wood sourcing and 
improved charcoal production will maintain environmental health, increase incomes, and revenue as 
well as provide a reliable source of cooking and heating energy for the urban household.  
 
The project aims to pilot innovative options for wood sourcing and charcoal production to support 
sustainable charcoal value chains and inform the development of enabling governance systems. A 
participatory collaborative learning approach has been adopted to catalyse farmer to farmer 
extension, targeting charcoal producer associations. Farmer trainers were selected and engaged in 
learning about sustainable wood management and harvesting, efficient carbonization encompassing 
properly drying the wood, stacking/arranging wood in the kiln as well as use of chimneys and air 
breathers which result in increased recovery rates as reported in other countries (Njenga et al., 2019; 
Schure et al., 2019; Oduor et al., 2006). A quasi-experimental approach was also adopted in the 
monitoring of kiln efficiency and keeping input and output records. Drum kilns were also introduced 
to optimize wood utilization where small stems that would otherwise be left as residues or waste are 
carbonized, reducing wood wastage while supplying additional charcoal. This was targeted at charcoal 
producer associations (CPAs) with 150 members; 32 of them were trained and tasked with training 
fellow association members. At subnational level, the project aims to support the development of 
country level strategies/road maps for legalising and formalising Prosopis juliflora charcoal value 
chains, as its harvesting in Baringo County is exempt from the logging moratorium since 2018. 
Figure 2 Production of charcoal from Prosopis juliflora (KEFRI and World Agroforestry) 
 
32 
 
Biomass production, harvesting and collection 
Sustainable Wood Energy and Forest Landscape Restoration Relationships 
Positive impacts for sustainable wood energy:  
Sustainable sourcing of feedstock for charcoal production is a major challenge in the slow growing 
indigenous woodlands. Using fast growing trees with limited management inputs – like invasive 
species that are present in the landscape – will ensure a sustainable low-cost production system of 
charcoal compared to plantation woodlots. Coupled with enhancement of community skills through 
collaborative learning and extension, and increased access and adoption of appropriate technologies, 
this will result in production of sustainable charcoal at scale to meet the growing urban demand. 
Positive impacts for forest landscape restoration: 
The project seeks to promote management by utilisation of the invasive Prosopis juliflora to: 
i. 
produce charcoal from improved and appropriate technologies to reduce pressure on 
indigenous woodlands; and 
ii. 
open invaded areas for natural regeneration of indigenous woodlands, grazing lands and 
cultivation of food crops in agroforestry systems.  
This will increase standing biomass, species diversity and build resilient livelihoods systems among the 
communities living in Prosopis invaded areas.  
Co-benefits: 
Charcoal production and trade is one of the major income sources for many in semi-arid areas like 
Baringo County in Kenya. However, it is repeatedly associated with deforestation and degradation as 
well as being riddled with illegality which makes the business ventures unpredictable and prone to 
bribery (Sola et al., 2017; Ndegwa et al., 2020). This intervention seeks to reduce the contribution of 
charcoal production to these negative impacts. This is being done by promoting use of the invasive 
Prosopis juliflora, as well as adoption of improved harvesting and management techniques that ensure 
the trees are not completely cut but remain in the landscape to continue coppicing and maintain the 
carbon sink. In addition, use of improved carbonization technologies is expected to cut the GHGs 
emitted during the charcoal carbonization process and maintain carbon sinks saved through reduced 
wood consumption (FAO, 2017b; Iiyama, et al., 2014).  
Furthermore, reduction of wastage and improvement of kiln efficiencies increases return on labour, 
ensuring higher incomes for charcoal producers as well as more time to invest in other productive 
activities. The support to the governance of charcoal value chains will make the business competitive 
for all value chain actors from producers to retailors. Furthermore, sustainable supply of charcoal 
ensures that the urban poor have access to cooking and heating energy sources at competitive prices. 
Health outcomes are also a major concern and promotion of improved cookstoves is expected to 
reduce negative impacts on charcoal users. 
 
 
33 
 
Biomass production, harvesting and collection 
Prospects 
Key enabling factors: 
Although charcoal movement beyond county boundaries was banned under the National Government 
Gazette notice of 2018, trade is still ongoing. This is despite the reduced number of actors in the value 
chain, evidenced by almost empty collection points but more individual roadside sales to supply the 
thriving urban markets. Since the exemption of Prosopis juliflora from the Moratorium on Logging in 
Baringo County at the end of 2018, Prosopis charcoal stakeholders are in the process of reviewing the 
Charcoal Production Act and developing a road map with safeguards to guide the resumption of 
charcoal trade. This has provided the entry point for generating knowledge, piloting options and 
incorporating evidence on how charcoal production can be optimised. 
Reasons or main drivers: 
Dependence on woodfuel in Kenya has remained above 60 percent since 1990s (MoE, 2002) with 
recent studies showing that most of the traded charcoal (89 percent) comes from the drylands (Iiyama 
et al., 2014; KFS, 2017). Even with the well-developed policies and legislative frameworks in Kenya, 
woodfuel production and distribution are inadequately guided, controlled and supported (Sola et al, 
2019). Challenges documented in the literature include: ineffective institutional arrangements and 
support mechanisms; poor enforcement and compliance; and inadequate investment and financing 
(Sola et al., 2019). In fact, lack of transparency and consistency in implementation and enforcement 
in Kenya make charcoal ‘illegally legal’. It is legal to produce, illegal to transport, but perfectly legal to 
sell and use charcoal in cities. Notwithstanding, woodfuel value chains remain important in providing 
income and energy sources for many in Kenya and thus it was envisaged that the project will catalyse 
processes that would make the value chains more sustainable.  
Main challenges encountered:  
The logging moratorium on all types of forests made engagement in and implementation of the project 
by many stakeholders a great challenge, although for others it was an opportunity to reflect, strategize 
and generate evidence to inform the reopening of the subsector. This affected the roll out of the 
activities as most stakeholders were hesitant to engage in what was seemingly illegal. Even so, 
stakeholders remain hopeful and have high expectations that the project will inform policy and 
legislative processes and contribute to sustainable charcoal value chains. 
Potential for scaling-up and replicability: 
Prosopis Juliflora, which is found in more than five counties, presents an opportunity for sustainable 
charcoal value chains, as it covers 2 percent of land in Kenya, with millions of tonnes of utilizable 
biomass that would cater for the charcoal deficit faced in the country (Choge et al., 2011; MEWNR, 
2013). Any increase in the spread of P. juliflora negatively impacts the livelihoods of local communities 
in the drylands (Mbaabu et al., 2019). This is because it leads to loss of croplands and grazing lands 
that are the major sources of livelihood for the agro-pastoralist communities. Taking advantage of the 
 
34 
 
Biomass production, harvesting and collection 
willingness and urgency to try all options to manage the invasive Prosopis is a huge opportunity for 
scaling up this initiative. Secondly, charcoal demand is insatiable, and the national and subnational 
governments are keen to find a solution for reducing pressure on the indigenous woodlands by 
implementing the Prosopis Exemption and thus this initiative will get political will and support. Finally, 
already many small-scale initiatives are being undertaken in various dryland and Prosopis-infested 
counties, seeking for practices to optimise production and marketing. Building on these initiatives, the 
intervention can be replicated in most of the communities within Baringo and across other counties.  
Additional information 
World Agroforestry (ICRAF) – (www.worldagroforestry.org) is one of the CG Centres. It is a centre of 
scientific excellence that harnesses the benefits of trees for people and the environment. Driven by 
our vision of a world where all people have viable livelihoods supported by healthy and productive 
landscapes. ICRAF’s mission is to harness the multiple benefits trees provide for agriculture, 
livelihoods, resilience and the future of our planet, from farmers’ fields through to continental scales. 
Headquartered in Nairobi, Kenya, ICRAF operates six regional programmes in Sub-Saharan Africa, Asia 
and Latin America and conducts research in 33 countries around the developing world.  Bioenergy is 
one ICRAF’s of the key programmatic areas.  
This work is part of a four-country project entitled Governing Multifunctional Landscapes (GML) in 
sub-Saharan Africa: managing trade-offs between social and ecological impacts funded by the 
European Union (EU), implemented by CIFOR in partnership with ICRAF, FAO, and ADRA in Kenya (as 
well as other partners in Cameroon, DRC and Zambia). This component focuses on knowledge 
generation, piloting policy options and engagement for more sustainable woodfuel value chains. 
Partners: Baringo County, Kenya Forest Research Institute (KEFRI), Adventist Development and Relief 
Agency, Kenya (ADRA), FAO Forest Farm Facility 
Link: https://www.cifor.org/gml/sustainable-woodfuel/ 
Publication: 
Njenga, M., Kirimi, M., Koech, G., Otieno, E.,
 
Sola, P., 2019. Training of Trainers (ToT) on Sustainable 
Prosopis Juliflora Woodfuel Production and Utilization in Baringo County, Kenya. Available online: 
https://www.researchgate.net/publication/337534857_Training_of_Trainers_ToT_on_Sustainable_P
rosopis_Juliflora_Woodfuel_Production_and_Utilization_in_Baringo_County_Kenya  
 
 
35 
 
Biomass production, harvesting and collection 
Integration of forest biomass procurement as a silvicultural tool for 
forest restoration in Quebec, Canada  
Dr. Evelyne Thiffault, Research Centre on Renewable Materials, Department of Wood and Forest 
Sciences, Université Laval 
Headline 
Preliminary results from research into the consequences on seedling growth from the harvesting of 
low-quality wood for bioenergy suggest that forest biomass procurement increases the number of 
seedlings, suitable microsites and the exposure of minerals, and reduced the obstacles for 
establishment of regeneration and site preparation. 
Overview 
Geographic location:  Type of example:  
Status:  
The 
study 
area 
located in Québec, 
Canada. 
Research project aiming at testing forest 
biomass procurement as a component of a 
forest management system. 
Ongoing. Launched in late 
2018 and to be completed in 
early 2021. 
Introduction 
Studies of the economics of using forest biomass for bioenergy often show that profitability is hard to 
achieve unless supported by policies and/or regulations. When considering the entire silvicultural 
system, recovery of forest biomass could play a positive role in contributing to silvicultural objectives 
and reducing the cost and effort to establish high-quality regeneration, especially in stagnant forest 
stands with an abundance of degraded or low-quality trees. 
The example quantifies the quantity and quality of microsites and environmental conditions for 
seedling growth created by forest biomass recovery in the form of degraded/low-quality wood relative 
to reference systems. 
Early results suggest that forest biomass procurement increased the number of seedlings and suitable 
microsites in the cutovers and the exposure of minerals, and reduced the obstacles for establishment 
of regeneration and site preparation. However, differences between treatments were not large and 
variability was high. 
Further field work is to be conducted to increase the number of sites and the ecological/technical 
conditions sampled, which will allow a strong inference potential to the results. 
 
 
 
36 
 
Biomass production, harvesting and collection 
Sustainable Wood Energy and Forest Landscape Restoration Relationships 
Positive impacts for sustainable wood energy:  
Studies of the economics of using forest biomass for bioenergy often show that profitability is hard to 
achieve unless supported by policies and/or regulations, due to the often high costs of forest biomass 
procurement. This is a major obstacle to the large-scale deployment of forest bioenergy when 
competing with low-cost fossil options. However, when considering the entire forest silvicultural 
system, from harvest to a new growing stand of trees, there is an increasing recognition that the 
recovery of forest biomass (in the form of branches, tree tops, discarded log pieces and trees), can 
play a positive role in reducing the cost and effort to properly prepare harvested site for effective 
planting or re-establishment of natural regeneration. If forest biomass recovery is initiated and this 
influences the rate of re-establishment, survival, growth and yield of the regenerating stand relative 
to a reference silvicultural system without forest bioenergy, this in turn influences the net carbon 
balance of implementing bioenergy. For example, if biomass recovery is a silvicultural practice that 
leads to improved planting microsite availability and quality, higher tree growth and faster C 
sequestration, the net GHG effect of replacing the fossil fuel with forest biomass is improved. 
Moreover, if biomass procurement translates into less machinery operations overall to achieve 
suitable microsites for regeneration establishment, either naturally or through planting, this would 
further improve the net GHG outcome, and provide economic savings. 
Positive impacts for forest landscape restoration:  
Regeneration stocking and density are critical factors determining forest productivity. They directly 
depend upon successful tree regeneration following harvesting, which, in turn, is influenced by many 
factors including seed and propagules sources and down woody debris. Debris can indeed affect the 
soil microenvironment, which directly influences resource availability to regenerating trees (air and 
soil temperatures, nutrients, water and light). Studies conducted in Canada suggest that retention of 
high quantities of debris –that might otherwise be used as a bioenergy source– might have a negative 
effect on the survival of regeneration caused by the difficulty of planting and the reduction in the 
abundance of suitable microsites for the establishment of seedling, either naturally or through 
planting. This is especially true when stands contain a high proportion of low-quality, degraded or 
uncommercial trees that lead to a high amount discarded log pieces and trees during timber 
harvesting. Site preparation treatments must then be used to create a good environment for the 
establishment and growth of naturally established or planted regeneration, as well as to enable and 
facilitate reforestation work. An abundance of woody debris can cause an increase in site preparation 
costs in managed forests. The project contributes to forest landscape restoration by assessing how 
forest biomass procurement along with timber harvesting in stagnant stands with an abundance of 
low-quality, degraded trees influences the quantity and quality of suitable microsites for the 
establishment of high-quality regeneration. 
 
 
 
37 
 
Biomass production, harvesting and collection 
Co-benefits:  
The project allows a comparison of the costs of procurement of wood for timber and biomass for 
bioenergy, and the costs of site preparation. The analyses make it possible to assess whether biomass 
procurement provides benefits in terms of costs of regeneration after harvest, and also whether 
differences in regeneration patterns can translate into carbon sequestration differences. 
Prospects 
Reasons or main drivers: 
In Quebec (Canada), among the possible sources of forest biomass, secondary residues from wood 
(e.g. chips, sawdust, shavings) are already largely used as raw material by the pulp and paper and 
board industries, or to meet the needs for internal heat and power plants. As a result, the main sources 
of forest biomass for bioenergy development are primary residues generated during roundwood 
harvesting, consisting of stems, sections of stems and other tree parts left on the cut blocks during 
forestry operations. These sources of biomass are at the interface of the harvesting activities focussing 
on conventional products, namely those for the production of pulp and timber.  
Stands containing a high proportion of low-quality, damaged or uncommercial trees are often found 
across Quebec’s forest landscapes, partly due to the occurrence of natural disturbances. During 
harvesting of these stands, forest operators need to leave large amounts of wood on site because it 
does not meet quality requirements for conventional wood products such as lumber, pulp and panel: 
wood is either too dry or too rotten, affected by fungi, cankers, cambial necrosis or trunk fissures, or 
is of a species that do not fit with current standards of wood-processing industries. Although this 
resource is unfit for conventional wood products, it can represent an attractive source of biomass for 
the production of bioenergy because it does not compete with fibre supply of other forest industries. 
Key enabling factors: 
By 2050, the global bioenergy potential from forest biomass could reach 110 EJ, which corresponds to 
about 15 X 109 m3 of wood. Achieving such levels of deployment will require, however, significant 
efforts. This is especially true for countries like Canada, characterized by a vast forest resource, 49% 
of which is certified by third parties as meeting sustainable forest management criteria (the largest 
certified world landbase in the world). Levels of forest biomass mobilization for bioenergy production 
in Canada is well below levels observed in other countries of the boreal and temperate biomes. 
Facilitating access to forest biomass potential is of strategic importance for Canada, as part of its 
efforts to fight climate change and to accelerate the deployment of its bio-economy to ensure its 
competitiveness on the world markets. 
The Canadian forest sector is built as an industrial ecosystem, in which different tree parts, trees and 
stands are used as feedstocks by the various industries within the sector, and in which by-products 
flow from one industry to the other. The profitability of each industry is highly reliant on the vitality 
of other stakeholders. Empirical evidence has shown that takers of low-quality fibre and residues are 
 
38 
 
Biomass production, harvesting and collection 
particularly important within that ecosystem. The best opportunities for unloved wood are therefore 
likely to be found in integrated forest product chains, where conventional forest products, such as 
lumber and pulp, and bioenergy streams are integrated to optimize the fibre flows and values. 
Modelling of the forest sector of Quebec suggests that the mobilization of low-quality wood for 
bioenergy contributes to unlock timber-quality wood volumes in currently stagnant, undermanaged 
landscapes.  
Main challenges encountered:  
Integration of forest biomass procurement as a silvicultural tool for forest restoration faces several 
challenges. First, the high variability in the characteristics of forest residues left on site following 
conventional harvesting operation represents a technological challenge in terms of logistical 
structures (collection, handling, transportation, transformation) and end-use markets. Uncertainty in 
terms of future policies, regulations and other governance policies also represent a challenge, as these 
are decisive in creating an attractive investment climate to invest in the establishment of forest 
biomass value chains that would include silviculture objectives. The trade of forest biomass, 
particularly as it relates to emerging sustainability legislation, criteria and requirements for supply 
chain custody, may also pose challenges in the integration of forest biomass procurement and 
silviculture. Another challenge resides in the access to nearby facilities that can process biomass 
composed of small or low-quality logs typical of the material usually left on site during harvesting 
operations. Under current market conditions, bioenergy sourced from this type of low-quality material 
is at risk of remaining unprofitable, unless a clear advantage could be demonstrated in regards of 
reducing overall silviculture costs as related to forest restoration. Finally, safeguarding environmental 
sustainability is an important challenge across forest biomass supply chains, including the one 
described in this example. Forest biomass procurement may conflict with biodiversity conservation 
and protection goals, as intensified forest management to meet increasing demand bioenergy and 
other bio-based products may affect ecosystem services negatively.  
Potential for scaling-up and replicability:  
This example draws from a large-scale research study with a network of experimental sites distributed 
in several contrasting forestry contexts throughout Québec. The study, and thus its immediate 
inference potential, include fir- and spruce-dominated stands of the northeastern boreal forest of 
Quebec affected by cyclic severe spruce budworm outbreaks, wet boreal fir stands of the Laurentian 
Highlands of central Quebec, hardwood dominated forests typical of southeastern Quebec, and two 
contrasting forest types of low quality conifer-dominated mixedwoods typical of the Gaspesie 
peninsula in eastern Quebec. These study installations also vary in terms of the nature and 
organisation of the regional industrial network, forest tenure (Crown lands, private lands), nature and 
abundance of available forest biomass material, silviculture system (clearcut, shelterwood, salvage 
cut), and machinery. Altogether, this network encompasses a large gradient of ecological, technical 
and financial conditions, which provides high potential for scaling-up the results and evaluate how the 
strategy tested here could apply to other contexts. 
 
 
39 
 
Biomass production, harvesting and collection 
Additional information 
This example is based on a research project jointly led by the Canadian Wood Fibre Centre of Natural 
Resources Canada (NRCan) and the Research Centre on Renewable Materials, of Université Laval. The 
Canadian Wood Fibre Centre is a governmental research organization which mandate focuses on the 
development and uptake of end-user relevant wood fibre research. The Research Centre on 
Renewable Materials is an academic research group which mission is to provide training and conduct 
research in the field of solid wood and wood/non-woody fibre-based renewable products to meet 
present and future environmental and economic challenges. The project also includes collaborations 
with private energy and forest companies, forestry contractors, the provincial government of Québec 
(Ministère des Forêts, de la Faune et des Parcs, MFFP), and NGOs.  
The project is financially supported by NRCan, the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research 
Council of Canada and the Fonds de recherche du Québec – Nature et technologies. The project 
receives in-kind support from MFFP, Université Laval (Forêt Montmorency), Forêt communautaire 
Hereford, Société d'Exploitation des Ressources de la Vallée, Coopérative forestière de la Matapédia, 
the Coopérative forestière de St-Elzéar and Produits Forestiers Arbec. 
Publication: 
Gouge, D., N. Thiffault and E. Thiffault. 2019. Integration of forest biomass procurement as a 
silvicultural tool in logging operations in spruce budworm-affected stands (Quebec, Canada). In Forest 
biomass as part of silvicultural systems and its potential contribution to the low-carbon transition of 
heavy industries. Part 1: Forest biomass procurement as a silvicultural tool for site regeneration. 
Edited by Thiffault, E. and N. Thiffault. IEA Bioenergy: Task 43. Pp. 26-38. Available at 
[http://task43.ieabioenergy.com/publications/forest-biomass-as-part-of-silvicultural-systems-and-
its-potential-contribution-to-the-lowcarbon-transition-of-heavy-industries-tr2019-03/ 
 
 
 
40 
 
Biomass production, harvesting and collection 
The domestic energy strategy in Niger 
Wata Issoufou (Project Coordinator RFP-GDT), FAO, Niamey 
Headline 
The Niger Domestic Energy Strategy aims to develop controlled local rural markets for wood energy 
to enhance rural development and increase forest cover. 
Outline 
Geographic location: 
Type of example: 
Status: 
Niger 
Policy 
The experience of rural markets that began in the 
1998s faded around 2005 with the end of the Natural 
Forest Management (FAFN) project. 
Introduction 
The Niger Domestic Energy Strategy (SED) derives its substance from a long reflection led by the 
country in the management of natural resources and rural development, with the support of its 
development partners. However, the reform, as it was designed and implemented, encompasses 
issues related to the sustained supply of wood energy and wood substitutes (oil, gas, etc.) by 
encouraging practices that are concerned with preservation of the environment. 
The implementation, in the 1970s and 1980s, of two major forestry projects in Niger (Project Use of 
Forests and Soils, PUSF, funded by USAID; and Projet Forestier du Niger, jointly funded by the World 
Bank and Agence Française de Développement), helped to fuel internal thinking in the Environment 
Department and to draw several lessons in terms of forest resource management. 
The content of the SED was supported by principles favouring a decentralization of the control of the 
forest exploitation which concretizes the transfer of the responsibilities of management for the 
benefit of the rural populations compared to the resources of their soils on the one hand and on the 
other hand the need to change the role of the forest agent, and therefore of the State if we want real 
participation by grassroots communities 
Wood energy, it should be remembered, was (and remains) the basic household fuel and a basic 
necessity for fast growing urban populations. Dynamics of exploitation of forest resources in the 
absence of a sustainable management system proves to be very detrimental to these resources 
The approach consisted in setting up rural wood markets with the involvement of local communities 
which have a monopoly on the exploitation and marketing of wood energy. 
 
 
 
41 
 
Biomass production, harvesting and collection 
Furthermore, the SED also incorporated the refinement of the wood energy forest taxation, with: 
- 
A decreasing differential taxation between uncontrolled exploitation (taxed at level 3) and 
exploitation by rural markets (classified into two types, namely oriented rural markets taxed 
at level 1.5 and controlled rural markets taxed at level 1); 
- 
Within rural markets, a device for collecting the tax from the rural market which allows better 
visibility of the tax and optimal development of the resource; and 
- 
Production of coupons justifying payment of the tax. 
Thus, alongside the rural markets known as uncontrolled essentially based on the exclusive and 
industrialized collection of dead wood, we are timidly witnessing the establishment of controlled rural 
markets where the management of forest areas is underpinned beforehand by management plans 
accompanied by plot plans of rotary exploitation with cutting quotas. 
Unfortunately, this latter approach to the different massifs is not systematised, and the absence of 
monitoring will lead to abuses harmful to the sustainable management of resources. 
Sustainable Wood Energy and Forest Landscape Restoration Relationships 
Positive impacts for sustainable wood energy: 
An evaluation of the strategy in Niger is noted in Bertrand and Montagne (2009): 
- 
Increase in the incomes of rural populations; 
- 
Increase in effective contribution of wood energy to the incomes of the populations and to 
local development; and 
- 
A normally constituted and functional local management structure in all rural markets. 
Positive impacts for forest landscape restoration: 
An increase in forest cover in villages where management rules and quotas are strictly respected. 
Co-benefits: 
Although the setting up of rural markets is expensive (see challenges below), there are many co-
benefits: 
- 
Impacts on local rural development; 
- 
Reduction of seasonal or long-term rural exodus and increased income of rural populations; 
- 
Significant reduction in the number and intensity of conflicts; and 
- 
Improved social image and status of loggers. 
 
 
 
42 
 
Biomass production, harvesting and collection 
Prospects 
Reasons or main drivers: 
The development of the SED was driven by the following factors: 
- 
Exploitation of resources is carried out in an uncontrolled manner and according to a logic 
resulting in the over-exploitation of the most accessible areas; 
- 
The exclusion of the communities at the base of the logging system and the marketing of 
wood; and 
- 
The risk of compromising the needs of the populations for forest resources, particularly wood, 
and the already weakened balance with the natural environment. 
Key enabling factors: 
- 
The development of a planning tool intended to guide the levies of the 
spatial point of view and possibilities of forest formations. 
- 
The empowerment of rural populations for the management and control of the exploitation 
of the resources of their land, with the cutting system under management and the issuing of 
cutting permits to operators foreign to the abstraction areas. 
- 
Improving the capacity of public authorities in terms of orientation and coordination in the 
field of domestic energy. 
- 
The promotion of alternative fuels to wood, in order to reduce the pressure on the natural 
environment, particularly the peri-urban one. 
Main challenges encountered: 
The cost of setting up and maintaining rural markets is very high. The cost and duration are estimated 
in Table 3. 
Table 3 Cost of setting up a rural market 
Type of rural market 
Number people per 
day 
Duration (days) 
Total cost (F CFA) 
Oriented 
26 
55 
1 000 000 
Controlled 
33 
97 
2 250 000 
Source: Bachir, 2005, p. 24 
Further challenges are: 
- 
The necessary involvement of all social groups; 
- 
The establishment of management structures for all the forest areas before the creation of 
the rural market (and the transformation of rural markets from oriented to controlled form); 
and 
- 
The need for capacity building for forestry agents and local management structures. 
 
 
43 
 
Biomass production, harvesting and collection 
Additional Information 
Publications: 
Bachir, A., 2005. La Stratégie Energie Domestique du Niger: concept et opérationalisation. SOS Sahel 
International Niger, Niamey and International Institute for Environment and Development, London. 
Bertrand, A. and Montagne, P., 2009. Domestic energy strategies and sustainable management of 
forest resources in Niger and Mali: management, public property regime, forest taxation and forestry 
assessment. Bois et Forêts des Tropiques, (301), pp.83-97. 
 
 
 
44 
 
Biomass production, harvesting and collection 
Positive trends in key fibre source forest landscapes of the US South 
Richard Peberdy (Head of Sustainable Forests) and Andy Dugan (Senior Forest Industry 
Specialist), Drax Group 
Headline 
Monitoring reports of forests used for biomass procurement for pellets suggest an increase in forest 
area, growth and surplus, and a consequent increase in forest carbon stock, whilst there was no 
evidence of abnormal fluctuations in prices for forest products. Differences in geographical locations 
show the need for diligent monitoring in every catchment area to ensure sustainable procurement. 
Outline 
Geographic location: 
Type of example: 
Status: 
US South – Mississippi, Louisiana, 
Arkansas, North Carolina and Virginia 
Private 
sector 
sustainability 
monitoring reports 
Active since 2013 
Introduction 
Drax Group sources and uses 7 million tonnes of wood pellets p.a. at its power station in N Yorkshire, 
UK. Drax also has 3 of its own pellet production facilities in the US South, in Louisiana and Mississippi, 
which produce c1.5 million tonnes p.a. Third party suppliers (predominantly in the US, Canada and the 
Baltics) provide the balance. Integral to the sustainable use of wood pellets is extensive due diligence 
prior to procurement, and then ongoing monitoring of supply areas to ensure positive forest and 
climate outcomes. Over the last 12 months Drax has been working on a pilot project to better 
understand the impacts of wood pellet demand on forest resources, markets and management trends 
in the catchment areas around industrial pellet mills. This paper summarises 3 monitoring reports 
(Catchment Area Analyses) from the US South. The first stage of this research is complete, and the 
results are available in the public domain. 
The US South provided 4.6 million tonnes of pellets to Drax in 2019 (65 percent of total supply).  The 
first phase of this analysis looked at 5 mills in the US South that provided almost 30 percent of total 
fuel supply in 2019. These mills are located in 3 catchment areas: Chesapeake in North Carolina and 
Virginia with a cluster of 3 pellet mills owned and operated by Enviva (Hood Consulting, 2020); 
Morehouse in Louisiana (which also sources into Arkansas) owned and operated by Drax (Forisk 
Consulting, 2019), and Amite in Mississippi, also owned by Drax (Hood Consulting, 2019). 
Pellet plants commonly use a mix of feedstocks (see Drax (2020a) for detailed reports of all Drax 
feedstocks). These mills have used varying proportions of both primary feedstocks (thinnings, low 
grade roundwood, tops and branches) and secondary feedstocks (sawdust, shavings and chips from 
sawmills). The feedstock mix is affected by market conditions, and over the past few years the trend 
has moved towards more sawmill residuals as the sawmilling sector recovered after the 2008 
 
45 
 
Biomass production, harvesting and collection 
Recession. Research has shown that, in terms of carbon outcomes for forest biomass, feedstocks are 
not universally good or universally bad. Using the same feedstock (e.g. low grade roundwood, or 
sawmill chips) can lead to different outcomes in different scenarios and geographies. The aim of this 
analysis and monitoring process is to identify trends – whether positive or negative - in forest area, 
inventory, growth and market dynamics by using publicly available data sources and targeted analysis. 
Sustainable Wood Energy and Forest Landscape Restoration Relationships 
Positive impacts for forest landscape restoration: 
Sustainable biomass demand is a significant contributor to multiple positive outcomes for forest 
landscape restoration, these include: 
– 
Ensuring that forests stay as forests; that owners have positive incentives to manage their 
land, retain forest areas and invest in better management. Sustainable biomass demand 
achieves this through the provision of markets for low-grade by-products (thinnings, low-
grade pulpwood, harvesting residues and sawmill residuals). These markets increase revenue 
generation for owners, incentivise the increased production of saw-timber (through thinning 
and markets for mill residuals), help re-establishment of future forests (utilising harvesting 
residues), and improve the profitability of forest management and ownership compared to 
other land uses. 
– 
Ensuring that the growth, productivity and health of the forest landscape is maintained or 
improved; encouraging the production of a higher proportion of structural timber for long-life 
wood products. The additional market demand and revenue is one of the ways in which 
biomass contributes to this outcome, but responsible and sustainable biomass markets also 
contribute in other ways. For example, adopting stringent biomass sourcing policies that 
include requirements to sustain forest productivity and health (Drax, 2020b). The criteria in 
this type of policy is a step beyond the traditional forest industry. Actively monitoring and 
analysing the trends and impacts in catchment areas and supply chains for biomass 
procurement, and transparently reporting this data, is also a positive step beyond 
conventional wood product sourcing.  If these trends and impacts are identified and managed 
responsibly, with appropriate remedial action when required, then the outcome for the forest 
landscape is positive. 
– 
The biomass sector is a significant contributor to the development of best management 
practice and improved forest level certification and auditing, far in excess of its scale. The 
Sustainable Biomass Program – a dedicated and robust independent certification body – has 
been developed to audit and drive improvement in sustainable performance in the biomass 
sector. 
Increase in forestland 
All of these catchment areas are heavily forested (63% of the land cover is forestland), with the 
majority of this forest area classified as productive ‘Timberland’ (97%). The analysis shows that the 
forest area has increased in each catchment area between 2010 and 2017 and by a total of 285 000 ha. 
The 3 Chesapeake mills began operation in 2012 and the Amite and Morehouse mills in 2014. Forest 
 
46 
 
Biomass production, harvesting and collection 
Inventory and Analysis (FIA) data shows no evidence of deforestation or a reduction in forest area 
since these mills began operation. All 3 areas have a significant upward trend in total forestland. 
An increase in growth and surplus 
The average annual surplus of growth compared to removals in these 3 studies was 20.7 million m3 
for 2010-17.  In 2019 Drax sourced 2.1 million tonnes of pellets from these catchment areas, the 
equivalent of approximately 4.5 million m3 of wood raw material. This wood fibre represented just 
0.4% of the average growing stock volume and 8% of the average annual growth (2010-17) (see Figure 
3). 
Figure 3 Change in growth, removals and surplus between 2010 and 2017 in the 3 catchment areas 
 
Co-benefits: 
Forest carbon sequestration 
The amount of carbon stored in the forest has also increased substantially. The growing stock of 
standing volume in the aggregate catchment area increased by 184 million m3 between 2010 and 
2017. This represented an increase in each assessed region of 17%, 22% and 14% in Morehouse, 
Chesapeake and Amite respectively (see Figure 4). The average annual increase across all 3 catchment 
areas was a 2.6% total increase in inventory each year. 
Figure 4 Changes in standing volume (in m3) between 2010 and 2017 in Morehouse, Amite and Chesapeake, 
respectively 
 
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
2017
Cubic Metres (million)
Growth
Removals
Surplus
 
47 
 
Biomass production, harvesting and collection 
The average annual growth rate across the forest landscape also increased by 7.9 million m3 p.a. from 
2010 to 2017. This increase can be a function of the age class, but it is also a reflection of improved 
management (better quality planting, fertilisation, weeding and thinning all leading to improved 
growth and more saw-timber production). Whilst improvement in management has been in evidence 
for several decades, markets and the revenue from them are required to maintain and continue this 
process. Over the same period, harvesting removals declined 3.7 million m3 p.a. despite an increase 
in wood pellet demand for Drax of around 4.5 million m3 p.a. (based on 2019 supply data). This 
decrease reflects a downturn in traditional markets for wood products, in particular the pulp and 
paper sector in these localities.  Wood pellet demand has played a substantial role in compensating 
for this loss of traditional demand. In the absence of the wood pellet market, forest owners would 
have fewer opportunities to thin their mid-rotation stands, producing less saw-timber and less 
revenue at the end of the rotation. There would also be limited markets for harvesting residues and 
low-grade pulpwood, reducing total revenue and increasing the costs and difficulty of establishment 
for the next generation of forest stands.  In some cases, owners would convert their land to non-forest 
use if viable local markets do not exist. 
No abnormal deviation in price 
There are many factors that affect the stumpage price that an owner may receive: weather patterns 
and extreme events, fluctuations in end-product demand (e.g. demand for structural timber for 
housing construction or demand for paper products.), localised competition for fibre and proximity to 
markets and operational and transport costs. Annual and quarterly variations are normal in the US 
South and the trends shown in Figure 5 reflect the long-term normal fluctuations.   
Figure 5 Changes in stumpage price between 2010 and 2018 
 
(NOTE: Morehouse and Amite source PPW and Chesapeake predominately utilises HWP) 
Each individual catchment area report provides a detailed analysis of price trends and possible 
consequential impacts associated with biomass demand.  There is no evidence that biomass markets 
have compromised or negatively impacted other wood users, largely due to the substantial surplus of 
0
5
10
15
20
25
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018
Stumpage Price ($/ton)
Morehouse PPW
Morehouse HPW
Amite PPW
Amite HPW
Chesapeake PPW
Chesapeake HWP
 
48 
 
Biomass production, harvesting and collection 
available wood fibre (the primary reason for locating pellet mills in this region), and also to the low 
paying capability of the pellet sector which does not allow competition with any other markets. The 
pellet mill is at the lowest end of the spectrum in the market for wood products. 
Prospects 
Reasons or main drivers: 
The Drax Group purpose is to enable a zero-carbon, lower cost energy future. To do this, Drax need to 
fully understand the carbon consequences of our demand in the forest landscapes from which Drax 
source. The most up to date science tells us that good carbon outcomes come from avoided 
deforestation, sustained capacity to store and sequester carbon, and avoidance of diversion of woody 
fibre from long term carbon stores such as sawn timber. Our ‘Catchment Area Analysis’ program is 
designed to monitor these aspects and will cover all our sourcing geographies when completed in the 
next 18 to 24 months. 
Key enabling factors: 
The availability of robust data, including forest area, inventory, type and levels of demand and price is 
critical to the monitoring process and understanding clearly the impact of wood pellet demand. The 
US South has robust forest data through the publicly funded FIA programme, and there is also good 
information regarding demand and prices over the required timescales. 
Considering the forest response to the demand, the particular circumstances of the US South are 
important. This heavily wooded landscape is capable of abundant growth – average productivity 
measured as yield per ha has more than doubled over the past 50 years. Growth significantly outpaces 
demand – there is a substantial surplus of wood growth compared to removals and an increasing 
inventory of carbon stored in the forest.  There has also been a significant increase in harvesting and 
production of solid wood products. This has been one of the key drivers of increased investment in 
forests, and the active management that has led to improved carbon sequestration and storage. 
Though it seems counter-intuitive, the data clearly shows that active forest management increases 
growth and carbon storage (Forest2Market, 2017). 
The well-established system of private ownership in the US South means that both private and 
corporate owners are able to benefit from investment in forests. There is a large cohort of academics 
and professionals who have studied and understood how US forests grow, and well-established and 
effective out-reach mechanisms to share knowledge with forest owners.   
Main challenges encountered:  
The two biggest challenges are: defining the catchment area around each mill and the availability of 
up to date reliable data.  Forest markets are micro-regional and vary considerably even within the 
same country or region. The concentration of forest resources, distribution, size and competitiveness 
of established markets and the viability of transport logistics all influence the size and shape of a mill’s 
 
49 
 
Biomass production, harvesting and collection 
catchment area. This may also change over time as markets fluctuate, forests mature, or the feedstock 
mix changes. Establishing a credible and realistic catchment area for current and future monitoring is 
a key aspect of this process. Whilst adverse impacts have yet to be detected, because landscapes are 
sources for many users, it may be challenging to ascribe adverse outcomes to one or more specific 
operators. 
Potential for scaling-up and replicability: 
On the collection of forest information, different geographies will have varying sets of information 
available, however, Drax expects it to be possible to conduct meaningful analysis in all supply regions. 
Not all geographies have forest landscapes with biological, structural or cultural capacity to respond 
to increased demand in the same way as the US South, though many do. Nations such as Finland, 
Sweden and others have demonstrated that as demand increased over time, so has the amount of 
carbon stored in forests. A common factor in these examples is the connection between the use and 
sale of wood for energy as part of the provision of a range of wood products, and positive forest owner 
responses (keeping forest as forest, sustaining storage and sequestration capacity, no adverse market 
displacement).  
The analysis summarised here is focussed on carbon outcomes. However, impacts on biodiversity, and 
on the communities that live and work in these forests, is of equal importance. Drax is committed to 
monitoring these as well. Over the coming 12 to 24 months Drax will report on these aspects too.   
Additional information 
Drax are working with the Earthworm Foundation to collate and publish data through a programme 
called ‘Healthy Forest Landscapes’. This project will seek to incorporate remote sensing data, and ‘big 
data’ - both technologies of increasing interest in this sector. 
Link: https://www.drax.com/ 
Publications: 
Drax, 2020a. Biomass sources in 2019. Online: https://www.drax.com/sustainability/sourcing-
sustainable-biomass/ 
Drax, 2020b. Responsible sourcing: A policy for biomass from sustainable forests. 11pp. Available 
online: 
https://www.drax.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/Drax-Responsible-sourcing-a-policy-
for-biomass-from-sustainable-forests.pdf 
Forest2Market, 2017. Historical Perspective on the Relationship between demand and forest 
productivity 
in 
the 
US 
South. 
104pp. 
Available 
online: 
https://www.forest2market.com/hubfs/2016_Website/Documents/20170726_Forest2Market_Histo
rical_Perspective_US_South.pdf 
 
50 
 
Biomass production, harvesting and collection 
Forisk Consulting, 2019. Morehouse, Louisiana Catchment Area Analysis. 24pp. Available online: 
https://www.drax.com/wp-
content/uploads/2020/01/Drax_Morehouse_Market_Assessment_20190918.pdf 
Hood Consulting, 2020. Catchment Area Analysis of Forest Management and Market Trends: Enviva 
Pellets Ahoskie, Enviva Pellets Northampton, Enviva Pellets Southampton. 120 pp. Available online: 
https://www.drax.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/05/Drax-Enviva-CAA_UK-version_2020-04-25.pdf 
Hood Consulting, 2019. Catchment Area Analysis of Forest Management and Market Trends: Amite 
BioEnergy. 87pp. Available online: https://www.drax.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/12/Amite-
BioEnergy-CAA-metric_2019-10-01.pdf 
 
 
51 
 
 
 
Bioenergy 
production 
from biomass
 
52 
 
Bioenergy production from biomass 
Initiative for the production and distribution of sustainable charcoal 
and feedstock in Togo  
Koffi Elom Towodjo Dzotsi, Mouvement Togolais pour le Salut des Peuples  (MTSP) 
Headline 
The production and use of bio-charcoal, made from waste from the agricultural and forestry sectors, 
as well as bush straw, preserves the forest, revalorizes a generally wasted raw material, and can have 
a positive impact on the purchasing power of the citizens and on the environment.  
Overview 
Geographic location: 
Type of example: 
Status: 
Plateaux region  
Atakpamé capital  
Population 1 425 199 (est. 2006)  
Density 84 ppl/km2  
Area 16 975 km2  
Project 
2016 – 2017 (pre-study) 
Introduction  
Charcoal is the basic energy resource for the majority of Africans. In Togo, the share of energy biomass 
(firewood, charcoal, plant waste) amounts to 75 percent of national total final consumption, 
compared to 19 percent for petroleum products and 6 percent for electricity (DGE, 2018), produced 
largely from rural traditional production, they come from unmanaged forests. The resulting 
deforestation is massive, bringing with it climate change and an inexorable rise in the cost of 
charcoal. To fight the problem of traditional charcoal production is to fight the problem of 
deforestation at its origin.  
The project is located in Togo, in the plateaux region, more precisely in the prefecture of KLOTO 
Kpalimé, in the village of Gadjagan (15 km South West of Kpalimé). The region is characterized by its 
mild climate and lush vegetation. Kpalimé is one of the most important cities in the region and 
is located in the South West, approximately 120 kilometres from Lomé, and is at the centre of 
the coffee and cocoa region. The area surrounding the city is lush and fertile, surrounded by thick 
wooded hills, deep valleys and small peasant villages. The landscape remains green even during the 
dry season. Despite intense agricultural development, the Kpalimé region still retains some of 
the most beautiful forests in Togo, where mahogany, Wawa and Iroquos abound.  
The “Bio Charcoal” project started in January 2017 with one idea in mind: to make a new sustainable 
and economical charcoal to limit the ecological disaster caused by the consumption of charcoal and 
the uncontrolled cutting of wood resources.  ‘Bio charcoal’ (sometimes called ‘green charcoal’) refers 
to the charcoal produced from renewable raw materials. For this project, these raw materials are 
 
53 
 
Bioenergy production from biomass 
waste from the agricultural and forestry sectors, as well as bush straw that is usually burnt. Compared 
to traditional charcoal, bio charcoal is:  
- 
An ecological alternative: it preserves the forest.  
- 
A sustainable alternative: The revalorization of a generally wasted raw material.  
- 
A competitive alternative: On an industrial scale, Bio Charcoal can be more competitive than 
traditional charcoal, and have a positive impact on the purchasing power of the citizens and 
on the environment.  
The project is the result of a preliminary study carried out by the Togolese association 
‘Mouvement Togolais pour le Salut des Peuples’ (Togolese Movement for the Salvation of Peoples – 
MTSP), 
with 
technical 
and 
financial 
assistance 
of 
the 
French 
association 
‘Graine de Développement’ (GDD).   
It began with an analysis of the charcoal and wood-energy sector in Togo. This led to the discovery of 
a solution to the problems of deforestation through a first experimental phase in which a "prototype" 
of charcoal made from agricultural biomass – bio charcoal – was obtained.  
This laid the foundations for a semi-industrial production which started in late 2017. Construction 
started in 2018 and ended in 2019. Today, the association is embarking on the search for funds for the 
construction of the first industrial production unit in the country which should ultimately allow the 
production of more than 1 tonne per day of bio charcoal. The final objective being in a few years to 
set up profitable industrial production.  
 
 
 
54 
 
Bioenergy production from biomass 
Chronogram of the project: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
It should be noted that this pre-study was set up as a prelude to the pilot project. The pre-study was 
successfully completed, and the pilot project also started successfully (see chronogram above). 
 
Sept. 2016 /  Meeting of partners 
Dec. 2016  / Signature of partnership 
Dec 2016 – Jun 2017  /  Technical and economic study (*) 
Jul-Aug 2017 / Machine purchase order 
Sept. 2017 / Start of construction work 
Partnership agreement between the associations 
GDD (France) and MTSP (Togo) 
Purchase and development of land. 
Construction of a 200m² hangar 
The pre-study carried out between December 2016 and June 2017 made it possible to study the technical viability of the production 
of Bio Coal, to verify the biomass deposits, and to verify the economic viability of the project. During this study, technical and human 
resources were used: 
 
Aug 2017 
Jul. 2017 
Jun 2017 
Dec. 2016 
Sept. 2016 
Construction of a press and 
craft ovens 
Construction of a traditional dryer, purchase of a briquetting press, 
construction of a grinder 
Construction of a 
technical room 
Human Resources :  
- 
1 chemical engineer (4 months); 1 engineering and arts student (6 months) 
- 
1 senior renewable energy consultant (9 months); 1 local renewable energy entrepreneur (9 months) 
- 
Several technicians (production, harvest) 
Study of biomass deposits (identification and quantification); 
Study of production processes; Characterization of biomass and 
mixtures; Deployment of an artisanal production unit of Bio 
Charcoal; Economic and Marketing Study. 
 
55 
 
Bioenergy production from biomass 
Sustainable Wood Energy and Forest Landscape Restoration Relationships  
The degradation of forest resources is a major environmental problem that Togo must face. The causes 
are slash and burn agriculture and unsustainable logging of wood energy. According to FAO (Food and 
Agriculture Organization), Togo loses 4.5 percent of its forests each year, one of the highest rates of 
deforestation in the world. The wood energy sector alone accounts for a third of these losses.  
Only three sources of energy are used as main energy by Togolese households: charcoal has been 
used as main energy source by 56 percent of households, firewood by 35 percent of households and 
butane gas by 8 percent of households. Other sources of cooking energy such as petroleum, electricity 
and agricultural residues are rarely used as the main cooking energy by households.  
Bio Charcoal was chosen for this project to solve this problem and produce positive effects on the 
sustainability of the wood energy value chain and the Restoration of Forest Landscapes.  
Solutions exist to produce charcoal not from trees but from unused agricultural biomass: rice husks, 
bush reed, teak branch, palm fronds, peanut bark, bamboo, corn stalk etc (Figure 6). Any woody 
material can easily be used to make Bio Charcoal. 
Figure 6 Agricultural biomass for charcoal production: Reed, Rice husk, Teak branch, palm nuts, Palm fronds 
and Coffee rind 
 
Positive impacts for sustainable wood energy and forest landscape restoration:  
Given the quantity, availability and diversity of the existing biomass, charcoal produced on an 
industrial scale would be very competitive (given its calorific value) and very accessible to the 
population. This would persuade the population to switch to this new type of charcoal which would 
allow the natural flora to grow according to its normal cycle, thus allowing the restoration of the forest 
landscape and having a positive effect on the wood energy value chain.  
Co-benefits:  
Through the transition to Bio Charcoal, change in behaviour at the level of the base population could 
be achieved, which would produce environmental benefits (timely cutting of trees, regrowth of 
forests, clean environment, stable rainfall, etc.). Many socioeconomic advantages would emerge from 
these positive effects on the environment, namely: increase in the volumes of agricultural production, 
new trade due to the sale of Bio Charcoal, trade in biomass which before was burnt, and many others.  
 
 
56 
 
Bioenergy production from biomass 
Prospects  
Reasons or main drivers and key enabling factors:   
The reason for the implementation of this project focuses mainly on the following issues:   
- 
Recycling of unused agricultural biomass;  
- 
Fight against deforestation and environmental deterioration;  
- 
Political will of those responsible for the environment; and   
- 
Energy to put an end to the anarchic exploitation of wood fuels. 
Main challenges encountered:   
Technology is not a problem in such a project, it has existed for several years and continues to evolve 
in the right direction, it is enough to have the necessary funding to buy them. However, the main 
problems arise on several other levels, namely at the human level due to tenacious habits but also 
from the point of view of production with high production costs and a non-existent market for 
agricultural residues:  
- 
At a first glance, it is difficult to make the Bio Charcoal sector profitable as transport and 
electricity costs are high in a country like Togo. (Solutions are possible thanks to the 
installation of solar panels or by reducing the volume of raw material transported by 
grinding it directly in the fields rather than in the factory.)  
- 
Rarity of the rains leading to mediocre productions.  
- 
The bio charcoal sector being non-existent, it is difficult to succeed in fixing a price on the raw 
material, namely a biomass thrown away for decades and which nobody suspects it of any 
market value.  
- 
One of the project's problems, and probably no less important, consists in raising awareness 
among farmers, organizing collection points, setting a price for the raw material to bring them 
additional income. It is an ant's work given the high number of small producers and to achieve 
this work a possible axis is to address directly to the farmers' groups which are already present 
in the villages, they are privileged intermediaries to achieve this.   
- 
For decades, Togolese have known how to recognize quality charcoal at first glance. In 
addition, old habits die hard in this country of traditions. Therefore, acceptance of this new 
product, even if it is environmentally friendly, is difficult. One possible solution is the price, if 
a product of similar quality is offered at a lower price then everything suggests that it will be 
strongly accepted despite stubborn habits. However, in order for the product to be cheaper 
than traditional coal, it requires a subsidy until it becomes profitable. 
- 
Now the biggest and most serious problem is the financing and the tax exemption of the 
company. (The factory is profitable only on an industrial level, but at this level the large 
machines are expensive when not bought on the Chinese market.)  
 
 
57 
 
Bioenergy production from biomass 
Potential for scaling-up and replicability:   
- 
Unlike many bio charcoal projects around the world, this approach is designed to be a 
scalable model which allows it to be replicated in several places across the country and even 
in neighbouring countries.  
- 
The semi-industrial pilot project is a "test" factory, which must be thought of from the start 
as a profitable enterprise which will function without subsidies in the long run. Produced 
industrially, bio charcoal can be very profitable, but must have industry funding in its infancy.  
- 
The only condition for the dissemination and replication of this model is availability 
of funds. The project was a pilot project which studied all the possibilities of production in all 
regions of Togo, the biomass available in all regions and the positive impact that this could 
have on the environment, especially in areas near the Sahel where deforestation is very 
pronounced.  
Additional information  
MTSP is a Non-profit organisation (receipt N ° 0921 / MATDCL-SG-DLPAP-DOCA) that has been 
operating since 2011. It has 21 Members and relies on private investment funding. 
 
 
58 
 
Bioenergy production from biomass 
Support for the promotion of the “Casamance improved kiln” in Togo 
Dr. Jérémie Kokou Fontodji, Forest Research Laboratory, University of Lomé 
Headline 
The proliferation of the Casamance improved kiln for charcoal production, which increases efficiency 
compared with traditional charcoal kilns by over 16 percentage points, could save 2.2 million tonnes 
of wood per year in Togo. This would reduce deforestation, increase revenue for charcoal producers, 
and reduce GHG emissions in the forestry sector. 
Overview 
Geographic location:  
Type of example:  
Status:  
The project is carried out in the 5 
economic regions of Togo (West Africa) 
Project  
2019-2021 (36 months) 
Introduction 
The use of traditional kilns in Togo is highly inefficient, with the consequential negative impacts on 
forest resources, GHG emissions and livelihoods of rural populations. The casamance improved kiln is 
a type of modified earth kiln with greater efficiency than its traditional counterparts thanks to a central 
chimney.  
This project, a part of the ProDRA program in Togo, aim to diffuse the Casamance improved kiln 
technology to overcome these problems. It is currently training 1 500 charcoal producers on the using 
of the Casamance improved kiln and is raising their awareness of reforestation with a wood-energy 
vocation with pilot reforestation. The mains objectives are to: 
- 
Reduce deforestation and increase carbon sinks; 
- 
Increase revenue for charcoal makers; and 
- 
Reduce GHG emissions in the forestry sector. 
Sustainable Wood Energy and Forest Landscape Restoration Relationships 
Positive impacts for sustainable wood energy: 
The Casamance improved kiln increases the efficiency of carbonization up to more than 26 percent 
while the traditional kiln has a yield of only 10 percent; which means that the demand for wood energy 
can be satisfied with fewer resources. The project on the Casamance improved kiln makes it possible 
to sensitize charcoal producers on energy efficiency and to strengthen their capacity to use this 
technology. 
 
 
59 
 
Bioenergy production from biomass 
Positive impacts for forest landscape restoration:  
If the Casamance improved kiln became widespread in Togo, this would make it possible to save 2.2 
million tonnes of wood per year, which would constitute increased carbon sinks and retain the other 
benefits of the forest (Fontodji, 2015). 
Co-benefits:  
The widespread of the Casamance improved kiln in Togo would make it possible to avoid 800 000 
tonnes of CO2 per year (Fontodji, 2015). This is a real mitigation tool that is directly linked to the NDC 
and REDD+ in Togo. 
From an economic point of view, the Casamance improved kiln generates added value for the charcoal 
producers. With the traditional charcoal kiln, the charcoal producing activity is a huge loss but the 
charcoal makers do not realize it because they often do not have an operating account and do not 
take into account the cost of wood and labour. An example comes from the community forest of Alibi 
1 (put under management in 2018 with the support of GIZ) in the Central region of Togo; if the 
Casamance kiln is used for the exploitation of wood energy in the first annual cutting of the forest, the 
net operating profit is 1,770,850 CFA francs versus –592,250 CFA francs for the traditional charcoal 
kiln (Table 4). Given the huge improvement in profits from net negative to net positive balance, the 
Casamance improved kiln could be a leverage for rural development. 
Table 4 Comparison of the net benefits from the exploitation of wood energy using traditional and Casamance 
kilns in the community forest of Alibi 1 
 
Units  
Traditional 
Casamance improved kiln 
Total revenues  
F CFA  
2 175 000 
4 945 000 
Total costs 
F CFA 
2 767 250 
3 174 150 
Net profits 
F CFA 
- 592 250 
1 770 850 
Source: GIZ-Togo, 2019. 
Prospects 
Reasons or main drivers and key enabling factors:  
Wood energy represented 75 percent of the national energy balance in 2018 and constitutes the main 
source of domestic energy for more than 90 percent of Togolese households. The techniques of 
carbonization of wood energy are very inefficient with yields on the order of 10 percent. The current 
 
60 
 
Bioenergy production from biomass 
demand for woody biomass for energy in the country is 2.5 times higher than the actual sustainable 
offer and this is a source of huge losses of forest resources1. 
In recent years, the Togolese government has become aware of the importance of wood energy and 
its impact on forest resources and the climate. This led to the design and implementation of the 
ProDRA program with the support of GIZ. Component 3 of ProDRA concerned the modernization of 
the wood-energy sector. Between 2013 and 2016, the implementation of ProDRA component 3 made 
it possible to carry out pilot reforestation with a wood-energy vocation, and to demonstrate the 
effectiveness of the Casamance improved kiln to fight against deforestation. Since the results of 
ProDRA component 3 have been very satisfactory, the AMCC+/PALCC project funded by the European 
Union has integrated the scaling up of ProDRA component 3 achievements. This is why, at present, a 
component of the AMCC+ project is devoted to the promotion of the Casamance improved kiln in the 
5 regions of Togo. This project is currently training 1 500 charcoal producers on the using of the 
Casamance improved kiln and is raising their awareness of reforestation with a wood-energy vocation 
with pilot reforestation. 
Main challenges encountered:  
The main difficulty is the insufficient funding to extend the use of the Casamance improved kiln to the 
majority of charcoal producers and facilitate their access to the equipment of the Casamance 
improved kiln.  
Another difficulty is that the charcoal producers show the will to carry out reforestation with a wood-
energy vocation, but they do not have capacity to carry out the reforestation techniques. 
Potential for scaling-up and replicability:  
The Casamance improved kiln is economically very viable. As seen above in the example of the 
community forest of Alibi 1, the improved technology makes the charcoal production activity 
profitable. 
The Casamance improved kiln is very easily managed by the charcoal producers and easy to replicate. 
Charcoal producers trained on this technology by different projects in Togo easily replicate it after the 
training. The Togolese government's perspective is to scale-up this technology throughout the country 
as part of the AMCC+ project. 
 
 
 
1 Data from Ministry of the Environment and Forest Resources (MERF), Togo (2017) 
 
61 
 
Bioenergy production from biomass 
Additional information 
Publications: 
Fontodji K.J., Tagba M.S., Akponikpe P.B.I., Adjonou K., Akossou A.Y.J., Akouehou G., Kokutse A.D., 
Nuto Y. et Kokou K., 2013. Diagnostic analysis of the techniques of carbonization in Togo (West Africa). 
Scientific Journal of Environmental Sciences 2(6): 106-117. 
Fontodji K.J., 2015. Déterminants de la production - consommation du charbon de bois au Togo et 
vulnérabilité aux changements climatiques. Thèse de Doctorat, UL, Togo, 121 p. 
 
62 
 
Bioenergy production from biomass 
Sustainable charcoal production in Choma, Zambia 
Svea Senesie and Vincent Ziba, Forest and Farm Facility (FFF), FAO 
Headline 
The formation of associations of charcoal producers can improve dialogues on important issues – such 
as policy, pricing, harvesting and manufacturing methods – thus helping to improve the charcoal value 
chain. 
Overview 
Geographical location: 
Type of example: 
Status: 
Choma district, Zambia 
Project 
Ongoing 
Introduction 
Zambia is a land locked country surrounded by other countries such as Democratic Republic of the 
Congo in the northern part, Malawi on the eastern, on the southeast by Mozambique; on the south 
by Zimbabwe, Botswana, and the Caprivi Strip of Namibia; and on the west by Angola. It is about is 
752 614 sq km in size and the capital city is Lusaka. 
Zambia has approximately 60 percent of its land area forested. However, the rate of deforestation is 
one of the highest in Africa between 250 000 to 300 000 hectares of land per year. Charcoal 
production is one of the many drivers of deforestation. However, access to electricity in rural and 
urban areas is estimated at 3.2 and 49.3 percent, respectively, and Zambia relies on wood fuel 
(including charcoal) as the main source of energy for over 75 percent of energy needs (NJP 2010). An 
estimated 700 000 tonnes of charcoal is consumed annually and 85 percent urban households are 
reported to use it (AFREC, 2011).  
The Forest and Farm Facility (FFF) is working in Choma district of southern province about 300 
kilometres away from the capital city Lusaka. The project is among other objectives supporting 
sustainable charcoal production and other wood fuel value chains. The FFF believes in organised 
producers as major drivers of change. The project in Choma has mobilised 600 producers into 40 
groups working to improve the charcoal value chain. 
The FFF has facilitated the formation of an association with the 600 producers to enable the 
producers/traders in the charcoal value chain to come up with a discussion platform and opportunities 
for meaningful dialogue and come up with the way forward on contentious issues like, policy, pricing, 
harvesting and manufacturing methods.  
As part of this project, improved charcoal production technologies are also promoted, such as the 
drum kiln shown in Figure 7 (left). 
 
63 
 
Bioenergy production from biomass 
Figure 7 Improved methods (left) and traditional methods (right) for charcoal production 
 
Sustainable Wood Energy and Forest Landscape Restoration Relationships 
Positive impacts for sustainable wood energy: 
The organisation of Charcoal producers/traders into an association is expected to benefit the wood 
energy value chain through the adoption of sustainable means of harvest and production and a 
reduction in the illegal trade in charcoal. 
The associations also enhance the relationship between the producers/traders and government forest 
department (FD) through dialogue, which will lead to increased regulation efficiency by FD through 
the association. The associations also provide improved contact time between FD and the producers 
for training in sustainable methods. 
Positive impacts for forest landscape restoration:  
The traditional methods of charcoal production currently have a recovery rate of around 10 percent. 
Improved methods being promoted currently using a drum kiln, which has over 20 percent recovery 
rate.  
Currently a participatory Grantee system is being promoted to allow traceability of sustainably 
produced charcoal. 
Given these improvements in the sustainable harvest and production of wood fuel and the reduction 
in illegal trade in charcoal, the outputs of the project are also expected to reduce deforestation rate 
in Choma and surrounding areas. 
Co-benefits:  
The FFF is empowering charcoal producers with improved technologies of production and harvesting, 
which will improve efficiency in charcoal production. This will have benefits by reducing net GHG 
emissions, as well as reducing illnesses caused by the production and utilisation of charcoal due to 
carbon monoxide through improved technologies. 
 
64 
 
Bioenergy production from biomass 
Improved charcoal production would require the following additional cost to the producers: cost of 
improved kilns, packaging and labelling with a green certified logo (approximately USD 10 per bag). 
However, improved revenues would be realised from premium prices of certified sustainable charcoal 
and through improved efficiency of production from below 10 percent to about 20 percent conversion 
ratio of biomass into charcoal. This will increase revenues for producers by approximately 30 percent. 
Additionally, the FFF has tried to build capacity among the charcoal producers and communities to 
attain improved business practices and participation in policy engagement. Participation by women 
was encouraged and facilitated in all capacity development activities, including business training for 
producer organizations using the FFF Market Analysis and Development approach with at least 50 
percent female participation. 
Prospects 
Reasons or main drivers and key enabling factors:  
The traditional methods for charcoal production currently have a recovery rate of at most 10 percent 
of the biomass, with over 90 percent of the primary resources being lost or wasted. Therefore, there 
is a great opportunity to improve the methods for charcoal production, with the consequential 
environmental, social and economic benefits. 
Main challenges encountered: 
The main challenges encountered are the following: 
- 
Need for a charcoal regulation to promote sustainable charcoal production. 
- 
Inadequate awareness among charcoal producers and other stakeholders on current forest 
regulations and sustainable charcoal practices. 
Inadequate finance and technical support to the public forest administration for effective 
implementation of the 2014 national policy that encourages sustainable forestry resource 
management. 
Additional information 
The Forest and Farm Facility provides direct financial support and technical assistance to strengthen 
forest and farm producer organizations representing smallholders, rural women’s groups, local 
communities and indigenous peoples’ institutions. A partnership between FAO, IIED, IUCN and 
Agricord, the Forest and Farm Facility is funded by the EU through the FAO-EU FLEGT programme, 
Finland, Germany, IKEA, Sweden, the Netherlands, and the United States of America. 
Publications: 
National Assembly of Zambia, 2015. The Forests Act. [Act Number 4 of 2015. Date of Assent: 14 August 
2015]. Available at: http://www.parliament.gov.zm/node/4535 
 
65 
 
Bioenergy production from biomass 
FAO, 2017. Greening Zambia’s charcoal business for improved livelihoods and forest management 
through strong producer groups. Rome. Available at: http://www.fao.org/3/a-i7238e.pdf 
 
 
 
 
66 
 
Bioenergy production from biomass 
Biochar producing gasifier cooking system for enhanced fuelwood 
efficiency, women’s wellbeing and sustainable agroecosystems in 
Kenya 
Dr. James Kinyua Gitau: Consultant, Bioenergy Researcher, World Agroforestry (ICRAF)  
Dr. Mary Njenga: Research Scientist, Bioenergy, World Agroforestry (ICRAF) and Visiting Lecturer 
Wangari Maathai Institute for Peace and Environmental Studies, University of Nairobi.  
Dr. Cecilia Sundberg: Associate Professor, Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences (SLU) and 
KTH Royal Institute of Technology.  
Dr. Ruth Mendum, Associate Director of Gender Initiatives, Office of International Programs, 
College of Agricultural Sciences, and Assistant Professor of Research, Penn State University.  
Headline 
Research project that supplied biochar-producing gasifier stoves and training on the use of these 
cookstoves and biochar to rural farmers in Kwale County, Kenya. 
Overview 
Geographic location:  
Type of example: Status:  
Kwale County, Kenya. Subsequently replicated in Siaya and Embu 
counties (selected for representation of diverse landscapes). 
Research project 
2015-
2019 
Introduction 
Gasifier cookstoves produce heat for cooking through gasification of dry biomass at high temperature 
and produce charcoal as a by-product, which is used for further cooking or as biochar for soil 
amendment. Compared to conventional cooking practices, the gasifier is a cleaner cooking option that 
improves efficiency, and reduces exposure to smoke and need for firewood collection, a tiring and 
time-consuming exercise. The cookstove is suitable for fuelling with small pieces of wood, such as 
prunings from agroforestry trees reducing need for collection of forest residues allowing their 
accumulation into soil organic matter consequently enhancing biodiversity. When applied to soil, 
biochar helps to improve the crop yields and when used as fuel, households save money on the 
purchase of alternative fuels. Users, however, have faced challenges with fuel preparation, lighting 
and reloading fuel, especially when the fuel chars before the food is ready.  
This pilot project was under the Biochar-Bioenergy project which ran from 2015 to 2019, working with 
150 smallholder farmers in the highlands, lowlands and Coastal regions in Kenya. The project aimed 
to improve biomass use efficiency and crop yields through adoption of biochar producing gasifier 
stoves and application of biochar for soil improvement. The first phase of the project involved the 
piloting of a galvanized Top Lit UpDraft (TLUD) gasifier with 20 farmers in Embu Country. This 
prototype was found to be unstable and posed burn risks (Njenga et al., 2016), therefore, the second 
 
67 
 
Bioenergy production from biomass 
phase of the project responded to these recommendations with the use of an updated TLUD gasifier 
branded as GASTOV from Kenya Industrial and Research Development Institute (KIRDI).  
The GASTOV gasifier 
Figure 8 Parts of the 'GASTOV' 
 
(a) An insulated casing with a 5.5 cm x 4.5 cm air 
inlet with a door (damper) at the bottom that can be 
regulated at half or full height, (b) a 19 cm high fuel 
canister in the middle, (c) a charcoal cover (snuffer) 
used to cool the charcoal by cutting off oxygen, (d) a 
6 cm high gas combustion chamber on top as the 
main burner, fitted with a skirting (e) to hold the pot 
in position and protect flames from wind and (f) a 
canister holder. 
Chopped firewood is tightly stacked in a canister (Figure 8.b) and lit at the top using small pieces of 
wood and a match stick while outside the kitchen to reduce smoke. The well-lit fuel-filled canister 
is then held with a holder (Figure 8.f), moved into the kitchen and fitted into the insulated casing 
(Figure 8.a). The combustion chamber (Figure 8.e) is then fixed at the top and the biomass burns 
under limited air supply producing energy-rich gases which burn at 700˚C to 1000˚C generating heat 
which is used to cook. When the flame from the burning biomass goes off, the biomass has 
converted into char which can be harvested by covering the canister with a snuffer (Figure 8.c) to 
cut off oxygen and allow it cool down or left to burn to provide heat for continued cooking. 
Beneficiary households were issued with a gasifier for free after being trained on its use. After three 
months of gasifier use, a household survey showed that 96 percent of the Kwale households were still 
using the stove (Gitau et al., 2019a). Most households stacked the gasifier with other stoves. The 
gasifier was appreciated by the users for the various benefits they observed when using it (Figure 9).  
Participatory cooking tests were thereafter conducted with 25 randomly selected households in each 
of the sites, with 5 households repeating the test with a three-stone open fire for comparison. The 
tests aimed at determining energy use efficiency, the concentrations of indoor air pollutants in the 
cooking area during the cooking exercise and biochar production rates. 
Since the end of the project in 2019, the farmers are continuing with the biochar production and use 
on their own. 
 
68 
 
Bioenergy production from biomass 
Figure 9 Characteristics of the gasifier appreciated by Kwale households 
 
Sustainable Wood Energy and Forest Landscape Restoration Relationships 
Positive impacts for sustainable wood energy: 
Compared to a three-stone open fire, the gasifier cookstove uses 32 percent less fuel when produced 
char is considered as fuel and 18 percent when char is used in soil amendment at Kwale (Gitau et al., 
2019b). The char produced was also reported as suitable for cooking (Njenga et al., 2017) and hence 
frequent use of the gasifier could reduce the need to cut down trees for charcoal production. 
Positive impacts for forest landscape restoration: 
The gasifier uses less fuel reducing the need for firewood collection. As a result, the forest residues 
are left in the forest where they decompose and nutrients are recycled back into the forest soil 
enhancing forest regeneration thereby increasing the standing biomass. Furthermore, there is also no 
need to cut down trees for firewood as the gasifier works well with prunings from on-farm trees and 
other agricultural residues available. 
Co-benefits: 
Health benefits 
The biochar-producing gasifier cookstoves produce less smoke, thus reducing the negative 
environmental impacts associated with these emissions, and potentially reducing the health effects 
from indoor air pollution.  
 
69 
 
Bioenergy production from biomass 
Improved livelihoods 
Biochar application to soil increases crop yields by 
holding nutrients and moisture in the soil hence 
making them available to the crops for a longer period 
(Figure 10). For instance, the average maize yield 
increased from 0.9 Mg/ha in the control plot to 4.4 
Mg/ha in the first season of 2017 which was reported 
as a low rainfall year (Sundberg et al., 2020). The 
increased crop yields consequently means reduced 
need to buy food hence reduced household 
expenditure on food. The excess produce, and the 
produced char, could be sold to raise income.  
Climate change mitigation 
Char production from the gasifier has reduced GHG emissions compared with the production of 
charcoal in traditional kilns, since the gases produced during carbonisation (e.g. carbon monoxide and 
other products of incomplete combustion) are burned to generate heat used to cook instead of being 
released into the environment. Specifically, gasifier use reduces the concentrations of carbon dioxide, 
carbon monoxide and fine particulate by 41, 57 and 79 percent respectively (Gitau et al., 2019b).  
Biochar application to the soil sequesters carbon which mitigates climate change. Furthermore, 
biochar improves the growth of above-ground biomass which are carbon sinks and, if residues are left 
in the farms, they enhance soil organic matter (Sundberg et al., 2020).  
Prospects 
Reason or main drivers: 
The majority of the households in rural Kenya inefficiently use biomass for cooking, leading to high 
fuel use and high concentration of household indoor air pollutants. The livelihoods of these rural 
households also primarily depend on farming and with the poor soils, the yields are low hence not 
benefiting these households. As a result, this project was developed to help improve the fuel use 
efficiency, reduce collection of forest residues and enhance women’s wellbeing. It also aimed to 
mitigate health risks and climate change through reduction of smoke in the kitchen. Use of biochar for 
soil improvement was considered as a climate smart agricultural practice for improving farm yields, 
agroecosystem and landscapes.  
Key enabling factors: 
Some of the factors that enabled implementation of the project were the: issuing of the cookstove for 
free, continued training and willingness of the farmers to participate in the project. The witnessing of 
Figure 10 A woman at her maize plots in 
Embu, Kenya. Biochar was applied in the plot 
to the right. 
 
70 
 
Bioenergy production from biomass 
the fuel saving, reduced smoke, production of char by the stove and improved yields from use of 
biochar also contributed to the continued use of the technology hence success of the project.  
Main challenges encountered: 
Some of the main challenges were the functionality challenges experienced with the use of the new 
stove such as increased labour for cutting firewood into small pieces and need for refuelling when fuel 
charred before food was ready. In some instances, the male heads (who were not the household 
cooks) attended the training sessions and failed to pass on the information to the cooks when they 
went back home and this resulted in stove not being used. The low amount of rainfall received in 
Kwale during the long rain period of 2017 generally resulted in poor yields, although more maize was 
harvested from plots where biochar was applied.  
Potential for scaling-up and replicability: 
This project was carried out as a research project. The concept can be sustainable only if the household 
owning the cookstove continuously uses it and harvests the biochar. The functionality challenges 
experienced with use of the stove should be addressed for increased use of this novel cooking system. 
For scaling-up, the stoves also need to be more affordable for rural households. This can be achieved 
through training of the local artisans on how to fabricate the stoves at the local level while maintaining 
the standards. Continuous training and demonstrations to raise awareness on the benefits of biochar 
producing cookstoves is necessary.  
Additional information 
This project was implemented by a transdisciplinary team of scientists from various organizations and 
institutions, which include: World Agroforestry (ICRAF), KTH Royal Institute of Technology; The 
Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences; Lund University; International Institute of Tropical 
Agriculture (IITA); Wangari Maathai Institute for Peace and Environmental Studies; University of 
Nairobi; Office of International Programs, College of Agricultural Sciences, The Pennsylvania State 
University.  
The work was supported by: Swedish Research Councils VR and FORMAS, ICRAF, CGIAR programme 
on Water Land and Ecosystems (WLE)-Sustaining rural urban linkages and Office of International 
Programs, College of Agricultural Sciences, The Pennsylvania State University.  
Project website: www.biochar.abe.kth.se 
Publications: 
Gitau, K. J., Mutune, J., Sundberg, C., Mendum, R. & Njenga, M. 2019a. Factors influencing the 
adoption of biochar-producing gasifier cookstoves by households in rural Kenya. Energy for 
Sustainable Development 52, 63–71.  
 
71 
 
Bioenergy production from biomass 
Gitau, J. K., Sundberg, C., Mendum, R., Mutune, J. & Njenga, M. 2019b. Use of Biochar-Producing 
Gasifier Cookstove Improves Energy Use Efficiency and Indoor Air Quality in Rural Households. 
Energies, 12, 4285; doi:10.3390/en12224285.  
Gitau J.K., Njenga M., Mutune J., Mendum R., Mahmoud Y. & Sundberg C. 2019c. Cleaner cooking 
while producing biochar: gasifier cookstove adoption in rural Kenya. Publication available on project 
website at www.biochar.abe.kth.se  
Njenga, M., Mahmoud, Y., Mendum, R., Iiyama, M., Jamnadass, R., Roing de Nowina, K. & Sundberg. 
C., 2017. Quality of charcoal produced using micro gasification and how the new cook stove works in 
rural Kenya. Environ Research Letters, 12 (9). http://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/1748-
9326/aa7499  
Njenga, M., Iiyama, M., Jamndass, R., Helander, H. Larsson, L., de Leeuw, J., Neufeldt, H. Röing de 
Nowina K., Sundberg C. (2016). Gasifier as a cleaner cooking system in rural Kenya. Journal of Cleaner 
Production, 121, 208-217. https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2016.01.039  
Sundberg, C., Karltun, E., Gitau, J., Kätterer, T., Kimutai, G., Mahmoud, Y., Njenga, M., Nyberg, G., 
Roing de Nowina, K., Roobroeck, D., Sieber, P., (2020). Biochar from cookstoves reduces greenhouse 
gas emissions from smallholder farms in Africa. Mitigation and Adaptation Strategies for Global 
Change. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11027-020-09920-7 
 
 
72 
 
 
Distribution of 
bioenergy and 
by-products
 
73 
 
Distribution of bioenergy and by-products 
Deployment of biochar technology for efficient production of cooking 
energy and biochar in Ghana 
Veronica Agodoa Kitti, ASA Initiative, Ghana 
Headline 
The ‘biochar system’ includes production of pellets, use of improved cookstoves, and production and 
use of biochar. It represents a technical solution to address drivers of deforestation whilst increasing 
bioenergy access.   
Overview 
Geographic location:  Type of example: 
Status:  
Central 
Region 
of 
Ghana – Cape Coast. 
Project followed by 
ongoing practice. 
 
Ongoing. Began as a project from 2009 to 2017, from 
which time it became an activity implemented by 
ASA Initiative. 
Introduction 
This project looks to deploy biochar technology in Ghana. This includes the production of pellets from 
forestry/agricultural residues, improved stoves/kilns for efficient production of cooking energy, and 
production and use of biochar, a by-product that can improve soil fertility, crop yield and to restore 
toxic and degraded forestry and/or agricultural soil. 
The project develops and promotes slow pyrolysis, low-temperature cooking stoves that use woody 
and agricultural solid residues (e.g. palm oil kernel shells) or pellets, locally produced from 
forestry/agricultural residues, thus avoiding the use of wood fuel and saving forests. The process also 
produces biochar, a carbon-rich by-product; the value chain is therefore called the “biochar system”. 
The system represents a technical solution to address drivers of deforestation hence contributing to 
FLR whilst increasing bioenergy access.   
Biochar systems are scalable and flexible, because they can use various types of solid biomass as 
feedstock. The technologies are characterized by a high efficiency; a small-scale burner (diameter of 
6 inches) can allow for 2 hours of cooking with 1.5 kg of pellets or kernel shells. Stoves produce 70 
percent gas and 30 percent biochar.  
The biochar itself has multiple benefits, namely: 
- 
Biochar can be buried into the soil as an amendment and fertilizer to improve soil fertility, 
crop yield and forest growth. Furthermore, due to its high carbon content, it serves as a means 
for carbon capture and storage (CCS).  
 
74 
 
Distribution of bioenergy and by-products 
- 
Biochar increases the soil capacity to hold nutrients and water over a long period of time and 
makes them available to the plants thus allowing for increased yield. 
- 
Biochar is a porous material. Its holes enable air circulation in the soil to improve soil fertility. 
- 
Biochar provides a platform for micro-organisms to grow in the soil. 
- 
Biochar buried in toxic and degraded forest soil has been proven as a successful means to 
support seed germination, and plant and forest growth, thus bringing forest landscapes back 
to life. 
Figure 11 Degraded land through small scale mining, Biochar treatment of degraded and toxic soil, and Field 
results after biochar treatment 
 
 
 
Sustainable Wood Energy and Forest Landscape Restoration Relationships 
Positive impacts for sustainable wood energy:  
The biochar system includes technology for converting forestry and agro-waste into pellets as an 
alternative to wood fuel as a source of energy for cooking. This reduces pressure on forest resources 
through the use of waste streams, whilst also improving the efficiency of use of biomass. The system 
also includes the use of a micro-gasifier for burning the feedstock in an efficient way. The syngas 
produced during the gasification is 100 percent burnt and used as cooking energy, whilst the biochar 
is buried into the soil to enhance soil quality and fertility and as a means for CCS. 
Positive impacts for forest landscape restoration:  
The biochar system represents a valuable alternative to the use of wood fuel (charcoal and firewood), 
thus allowing for a reduced pressure on forest resources. Micro-gasification increases the efficiency 
of feedstock use compared to traditional stoves or kilns, thus, even if alternative feedstock is not 
available, the amount of wood needed for cooking is still reduced (wood must first be chipped). 
Biochar can be used as component of soilless substrates, thus serving in nurseries to grow forest 
seedlings: tests show that it leads to faster seed germination and forest seedlings’ growth. 
Furthermore, when buried in the soil, biochar has been proven to: be an efficient means for restoring 
soil polluted by heavy-metals; increase soil water holding capacity; and increase the availability of 
plant mineral nutrients (e.g. Ca, P, K). 
 
 
 
75 
 
Distribution of bioenergy and by-products 
Co-benefits:  
The biochar system represents an efficient strategy towards the achievement of the objectives defined 
under the Paris Agreement. It has dual climate benefits: 1-reducing carbon emission and 2- creating 
carbon sinks.  
Biochar is a highly stable C-rich product; thus it is an efficient means for CCS for a long period of time 
and can contribute to climate change mitigation. Biochar systems also allow for significant GHG 
emission reduction compared to the traditional stoves or ways of making fire (e.g. three stone fire). 
Prospects 
Reasons or main drivers: 
Self-motivation coupled with effectiveness of biochar technology and good field results from biochar 
field trials. 
Key enabling factors: 
Local availability of residues and/or waste biomass and/or ability to produce waste biomass and 
biochar system technology. 
Main challenges encountered:  
- 
Slow fund raising process for activity implementation 
- 
Inconsistency of rainfall  
Potential for scaling-up and replicability:  
The practice has potential for replication and scale-up. There is the potential for many businesses for 
the production of pellets, stoves, and the sale of biochar in agriculture value chains for livelihood 
improvements. 
The biochar technology is simple to replicate under the following conditions: 
- 
Availability of waste biomass; 
- 
Existence of artisanal skills; and 
- 
Willingness and commitment of the local people. 
However, financial resources are needed to establish the value chain and allow for market uptake of 
the technology. 
 
 
 
76 
 
Distribution of bioenergy and by-products 
Additional information 
ASA Initiative is a non -governmental organization (NGO) that is implementing biochar systems in 
Ghana since 2009. It is a private Institution with a scale of medium size in nature that depends on 
grant for her project implementation. 
The biochar systems have been developed and tested under the course of two ACP S&T financed 
projects, namely “Bebi – Benefits from Biochar” project and “Biochar Plus”. Several other activities 
have been conducted from 2009 up to date. 
Link: Biochar Plus Project website: https://sites.google.com/site/biocharplusproject/home 
Publication: 
FAO, 2018. Lessons learned on the Sustainability and Replicability of Integrated Food-Energy Systems 
in 
Ghana 
and 
Mozambique. 
FAO, 
Rome. 
ISBN 
978-92-5-130350-4. 
Available 
at: 
http://www.fao.org/3/i8627en/I8627EN.pdf 
 
77 
 
Conclusion 
From such a varied set of examples, from various geographic and development settings, and covering 
the whole wood energy value chain, it is difficult to draw common conclusions. This itself leads us to 
conclude that the solutions for sustainable wood energy to contribute to FLR are manifold and diverse. 
However, there are some common features that emerge from the examples presented above that it 
is worth highlighting.  
Holistic approach 
Many of the successful examples demonstrate a holistic approach, in that they take in to consideration 
all aspects of the system. For interventions that seek to enhance forestlands, recognising and 
managing the socioeconomic aspects is key to success. Indeed, these socioeconomic factors are 
invariably the drivers behind the degradation of forests, and so solutions to reduce these drivers 
through integrated and comprehensive policy reform are needed (Chazdon, 2018). Therefore, 
inclusion of all stakeholders in project development and implementation is integral. 
Awareness and capacity 
Lack of awareness of alternatives to traditional bioenergy use, including the benefits that can be drawn, 
was identified as a main challenge in many cases. Indeed, in most cases, the magnitude of logical 
benefits to better management of forest resources is overwhelming and raising awareness of these 
benefits stimulates adoption of new practices. This is important where local communities require 
ownership of practices to secure long-term sustainability beyond the boundaries of short project 
cycles. Moreover, capacity building of both practitioners and policy-makers is needed in some cases; 
projects typically provide training, equipment and other specialized support to facilitate this. 
Enabling environment 
In many of the examples presented above, a conducive enabling environment was important. In some 
cases, it was strong policies that enabled the success of the project (e.g. revision of the logging 
moratorium in Kenya to exempt invasive species) and in other cases, it was lack of regulation that 
caused major challenges (e.g. lack of adequate charcoal regulation in Togo). Policy certainty and 
secure land tenure are key, not only to secure investments, but to ensure support from local 
communities. Commitment from relevant institutions at all levels supports the development of a 
positive enabling environment. This can be further facilitated by alignment with relevant initiatives, 
such as AFR100, REDD+, SDGs, NDCs, etc. 
 
 
78 
 
References 
Akinnifesi, F.K., Ajayi, O.C., Sileshi, G., Chirwa, P.W. and Chianu, J., 2010. Fertiliser trees for sustainable 
food security in the maize-based production systems of East and Southern Africa. A 
review. Agronomy for sustainable development, 30(3), pp.615-629. 
Bachir, A., 2005. La Stratégie Energie Domestique du Niger: concept et opérationalisation. SOS Sahel 
International Niger, Niamey and International Institute for Environment and Development, 
London. 
Bertrand, A. and Montagne, P., 2009. Domestic energy strategies and sustainable management of 
forest resources in Niger and Mali: management, public property regime, forest taxation and 
forestry assessment. Bois et Forêts des Tropiques, (301), pp.83-97. 
Brobbey, L., Hansen, C.P., Kyereh, B., Pouliot, M., 2019. The economic importance of charcoal to rural 
livelihoods: Evidence from a key charcoal-producing area in Ghana. Forest Policy and 
Economics. 101. 19-31. 10.1016/j.forpol.2019.01.013. 
Chazdon, R.L., 2018. Protecting intact forests requires holistic approaches. Nature ecology & 
evolution, 2(6), pp.915-915. 
Choge, S., Clement, N., Gitonga, M., & Okuye, J., 2011. Good news on a dreaded tree: Prosopis 
(popularly known mathenge) has many uses, and it can be commercialised. Miti Magazine, 
Issue 14, Published on May 23, 2012.   
Drax, 2020a. Biomass sources in 2019. Online: https://www.drax.com/sustainability/sourcing-
sustainable-biomass/ 
Drax, 2020b. Responsible sourcing: A policy for biomass from sustainable forests. 11pp. Available 
online: https://www.drax.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/Drax-Responsible-sourcing-a-
policy-for-biomass-from-sustainable-forests.pdf 
Drigo, R., Bailis R., Ghilardi A. & Maser, O., 2015.  Analysis of woodfuel supply, demand and 
sustainability in Kenya. Geospatial Analysis and Modelling of Non beyond. GACC Yale-UNAM 
Project Report. 
Dubois O., Pirelli T. & Peressotti A., 2019. Biomass anaerobic digestion and gasification in non-OECD 
countries—an overview, In Substitute Natural Gas from Waste: Technical Assessment and 
Industrial Applications of Biochemical and Thermochemical Processes, Chapter 13. Available 
at: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/B9780128155547000131 
Energy Commission of Ghana, 2017. National Energy Statistics, 2007 to 2016. 
 
79 
 
FAO, 2017a. The Charcoal Transition: Greening the Charcoal Value Chain to Mitigate Climate Change 
and Improve Local Livelihoods, by J. van Dam. Rome, Food and Agriculture Organization of the 
United Nations.  
FAO, 2017b. Greening Zambia’s charcoal business for improved livelihoods and forest management 
through strong producer groups. Rome. Available at: http://www.fao.org/3/a-i7238e.pdf 
FAO, 2018. Lessons learned on the Sustainability and Replicability of Integrated Food-Energy Systems 
in Ghana and Mozambique. FAO, Rome. ISBN 978-92-5-130350-4. Available at: 
http://www.fao.org/3/i8627en/I8627EN.pdf 
Fontodji K.J., Tagba M.S., Akponikpe P.B.I., Adjonou K., Akossou A.Y.J., Akouehou G., Kokutse A.D., 
Nuto Y. et Kokou K., 2013. Diagnostic analysis of the techniques of carbonization in Togo (West 
Africa). Scientific Journal of Environmental Sciences 2(6): 106-117. 
Fontodji K.J., 2015. Déterminants de la production - consommation du charbon de bois au Togo et 
vulnérabilité aux changements climatiques. Thèse de Doctorat, UL, Togo, 121 pp. 
Forest2Market, 2017. Historical Perspective on the Relationship between demand and forest 
productivity 
in 
the 
US 
South. 
104pp. 
Available 
online: 
https://www.forest2market.com/hubfs/2016_Website/Documents/20170726_Forest2Mark
et_Historical_Perspective_US_South.pdf 
Forisk Consulting, 2019. Morehouse, Louisiana Catchment Area Analysis. 24pp. Available online: 
https://www.drax.com/wp-
content/uploads/2020/01/Drax_Morehouse_Market_Assessment_20190918.pdf 
Garrity, D.P., Akinnifesi, F.K., Ajayi, O.C., Weldesemayat, S.G., Mowo, J.G., Kalinganire, A., Larwanou, 
M. and Bayala, J., 2010. Evergreen Agriculture: a robust approach to sustainable food security 
in Africa. Food security, 2(3), pp.197-214. 
Gitau, K. J., Mutune, J., Sundberg, C., Mendum, R. & Njenga, M. 2019a. Factors influencing the 
adoption of biochar-producing gasifier cookstoves by households in rural Kenya. Energy for 
Sustainable Development 52, 63–71.  
Gitau, J. K., Sundberg, C., Mendum, R., Mutune, J. & Njenga, M. 2019b. Use of Biochar-Producing 
Gasifier Cookstove Improves Energy Use Efficiency and Indoor Air Quality in Rural Households. 
Energies, 12, 4285; doi:10.3390/en12224285.  
Gitau J.K., Njenga M., Mutune J., Mendum R., Mahmoud Y. & Sundberg C. 2019c. Cleaner cooking 
while producing biochar: gasifier cookstove adoption in rural Kenya. Publication available on 
project website at www.biochar.abe.kth.se  
 
80 
 
Gouge, D., N. Thiffault and E. Thiffault. 2019. Integration of forest biomass procurement as a 
silvicultural tool in logging operations in spruce budworm-affected stands (Quebec, Canada). 
In Forest biomass as part of silvicultural systems and its potential contribution to the low-
carbon transition of heavy industries. Part 1: Forest biomass procurement as a silvicultural 
tool for site regeneration. Edited by Thiffault, E. and N. Thiffault. IEA Bioenergy: Task 43. Pp. 
26-38. 
Hood Consulting, 2020. Catchment Area Analysis of Forest Management and Market Trends: Enviva 
Pellets Ahoskie, Enviva Pellets Northampton, Enviva Pellets Southampton. 120 pp. Available 
online: 
https://www.drax.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/05/Drax-Enviva-CAA_UK-
version_2020-04-25.pdf 
Hood Consulting, 2019. Catchment Area Analysis of Forest Management and Market Trends: Amite 
BioEnergy. 
87pp. 
Available 
online: 
https://www.drax.com/wp-
content/uploads/2019/12/Amite-BioEnergy-CAA-metric_2019-10-01.pdf 
IEA, 
2019. 
Energy 
data: 
TPES 
by 
source. 
Online: 
https://www.iea.org/data-and-
statistics?country=WORLD&fuel=Energy%20supply&indicator=Total%20primary%20energy%
20supply%20(TPES)%20by%20source 
Iiyama M., Neufeldt H., Dobie P., Njenga M., Ndegwa G., Jamnadass R., 2014. The potential of 
agroforestry in the provision of sustainable woodfuel in sub-Saharan Africa. Current Opinion 
in 
Environmental 
Sustainability, 
6: 
138-147. 
https://www.sci-
encedirect.com/science/article/pii/S187734351300196 
IRENA, 2017. Bioenergy from Degraded Land in Africa: Sustainable and technical potential under Bonn 
Challenge 
pledges. 
IRENA, 
Abu 
Dhabi. 
ISBN 
978-92-9260-050-1 
Available 
at : 
https://www.irena.org/publications/2017/Dec/Bioenergy-from-degraded-land-in-Africa 
Kaonga, M.L. and Bayliss-Smith, T.P., 2009. Carbon pools in tree biomass and the soil in improved 
fallows in eastern Zambia. Agroforestry Systems, 76(1), pp.37-51. 
KFS, 2017. Forest law enforcement and governance in Kenya. A paper prepared for the East African 
Community-led regional process in the framework of the Ministerial Declaration, Yaoundé, 
Cameroon, October 16, 2003 on the Africa Forest Law Enforcement and Governance (AFLEG). 
Nairobi, Kenya Forest Service (KFS). 
Makumba, W., Akinnifesi, F.K., Janssen, B. and Oenema, O., 2007. Long-term impact of a gliricidia-
maize intercropping system on carbon sequestration in southern Malawi. Agriculture, 
ecosystems & environment, 118(1-4), pp.237-243. 
Masakha, E.J. & Wagulo, F.N., 2015. Impacts of Prosopis Juliflora on Land Use and Ecology of Salabani 
Location, Marigat District, Baringo County, Kenya. Journal of Environment and Earth Science, 
5(19), 17-23. 
 
81 
 
Mbaabu, P.R., Ng, W.T., Schaffner, U., Gichaba, M., Olago, D., Choge, S., Oriaso, S. and Eckert, S., 2019. 
Spatial evolution of Prosopis invasion and its effects on LULC and livelihoods in Baringo, 
Kenya. Remote sensing, 11(10), p.1217. 
Ministry of Energy, Kenya (MoE) and Clean Cooking Association of Kenya (CCAK), 2019. Kenya Cooking 
Sector Study: Assessment of the Supply and Demand of Cooking Solutions at the Household 
Level. 44 pp. 
Ministry of Environment, Water and Natural Resources, (MEWNR) Government of Kenya, 2013. 
Analysis of Demand and Supply of Wood Products in Kenya. GoK, Nairobi Kenya 
Meyerhoff, E., 1991. Taking Stock: Changing livelihoods in an Agro-pastoral Community. Acts Press, 
Africa Centre for Technology Studies, Nairobi. PP 58. 
Ministry of Energy and Clean Cooking Association of Kenya, 2019. Kenya Household Cooking Sector 
Study. Assessment of the Supply and Demand of Cooking Solutions at the Household Level. 
Nairobi, Kenya. 
National Assembly of Zambia, 2015. The Forests Act. [Act Number 4 of 2015. Date of Assent: 14 August 
2015]. Available at: http://www.parliament.gov.zm/node/4535 
Ndegwa G, Sola, P., Iiyama M, Okeyo I, Njenga M, Siko I., Muriuki, J., 2020. Charcoal value chains in 
Kenya: a 20-year synthesis. Working Paper number 307. World Agroforestry, Nairobi, Kenya. 
DOI http://dx.doi.org/10.5716/WP20026.PDF   
Njenga, M., Mahmoud, Y., Mendum, R., Iiyama, M., Jamnadass, R., Roing de Nowina, K. & Sundberg. 
C., 2017. Quality of charcoal produced using micro gasification and how the new cook stove 
works 
in 
rural 
Kenya. 
Environ 
Research 
Letters, 
12 
(9). 
http://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/1748-9326/aa7499  
Njenga, M., Iiyama, M., Jamndass, R., Helander, H. Larsson, L., de Leeuw, J., Neufeldt, H. Röing de 
Nowina K., Sundberg C., 2016. Gasifier as a cleaner cooking system in rural Kenya. Journal of 
Cleaner Production, 121, 208-217. https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2016.01.039  
Njenga, M., Kirimi, M., Koech, G., Otieno, E.,
 
Sola, P., 2019. Training of Trainers (ToT) on Sustainable 
Prosopis Juliflora Woodfuel Production and Utilization in Baringo County, Kenya. 
https://www.cifor.org/gml/sustainable-woodfuel/ 
Oduor, N., Githiomi, J., Chikamai, B., 2006. Charcoal Production Using Improved Earth, Portable Metal, 
Drum and Casamance Kilns. Kenya Forestry Research Institute (KEFRI). 
Pimentel D, Lach, L., Zuniga, R., Morrison, D., 2000. Environmental and economic costs of non-
indigenous species in the United States. Bioscience 50(1): 53-65. 
 
82 
 
Schure J., Pinta F., Cerutti P. O., Kasereka-Muvatsi L., 2019. Efficiency of charcoal production in Sub-
Saharan Africa: Solutions beyond the kiln. Bois et Forêts des Tropiques, 340: 57-70. Doi : 
https://doi.org/10.19182/ bft2019.340.a31691 
Schure, J., Pinta., F., Omar Cerutti., P., Kasereka-Muvatsi, L., 2019. Efficiency of charcoal production in 
Sub-Saharan Africa: Solutions beyond the kiln. Bois et Forêts des Tropiques – ISSN : L-0006-
579X Volume 340 – 2, Pp 57-70. 
Shouf Biosphere Reserve, 2019. Forest and Landscape Restoration Guidelines. 263 pp. Available 
online: 
https://www.medforval.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/12/Forest-Landscape-
Restoration-Guidelines_Shouf_2019.pdf 
Sileshi, G., Akinnifesi, F.K., Ajayi, O.C. and Place, F., 2008. Meta-analysis of maize yield response to 
woody and herbaceous legumes in sub-Saharan Africa. Plant and soil, 307(1-2), pp.1-19. 
Sola, P., Cerutti, P.O., Zhou, W., Gautier, G., Iiyama, M., Schure, J., Chenevoy, A.,Yila, J., Dufe, V., Nasi, 
R., Petrokofsky, G., and Shepherd, G., 2017. The environmental, socioeconomic, and health 
impacts of woodfuel value chains in Sub‑Saharan Africa: a systematic map. Environ Evidence 
6:4 DOI 10.1186/s13750-017-0082-2   
Sola, P., Schure, J., Eba’a Atyi, R., Gumbo, D., Okeyo, I., Awono, A., 2019. Woodfuel policies and 
practices in selected countries in Sub-Saharan Africa: a critical review. Bois et Forêts des 
Tropiques, 340: 27-41. Doi : https://doi. org/10.19182/bft2019.340.a31690 
Sundberg, C., Karltun, E., Gitau, J., Kätterer, T., Kimutai, G., Mahmoud, Y., Njenga, M., Nyberg, G., 
Roing de Nowina, K., Roobroeck, D., Sieber, P., 2020. Biochar from cookstoves reduces 
greenhouse gas emissions from smallholder farms in Africa. Mitigation and Adaptation 
Strategies for Global Change. 
World Bioenergy Association (WBA), 2019. Global Bioenergy Statistics 2019. WBA, Stockholm, 
Sweden. 58 pp. 
Yu, H., Román, E. and Solvang, W.D., 2018. A value chain analysis for bioenergy production from 
biomass and biodegradable waste: a case study in Northern Norway. Energy Systems and 
Environment, p.183. 
