Voting ID
Task ID
Shareholder Reference No.
Form of Proxy – Drax Group plc
+
+
+
+
Please refer to the notes on the attached page and the explanatory notes in the accompanying Notice of Annual 
General Meeting before completing this form.
I/We hereby appoint the Chair of the Annual General Meeting as my/our proxy to exercise all or any of my/our rights 
to attend, speak and vote in respect of my/our ordinary shares on my/our behalf at the Annual General Meeting of 
Drax Group plc to be held at 11.30am on Wednesday 21 April 2021 and at any adjournment thereof. I appoint my/our 
proxy to attend, speak and vote in the manner indicated below.
Please tick here if this proxy appointment is one of multiple appointments being made: (see Note 3).
You may register the appointment of a proxy electronically by logging onto www.sharevote.co.uk and using the 
reference numbers above or, if you have previously registered with the Company’s registrar’s online portfolio service 
Shareview, www.shareview.co.uk.
 
 
 
Vote 
Resolutions 
For  
Against 
Withheld
1 
To receive and adopt the Annual Report and Accounts. 
 
 
2 
 To approve the annual statement to shareholders by the Chair of the Remuneration  
 
 
 
Committee and the Annual Report on Remuneration.
3 
To approve the final dividend. 
 
 
4 To re-elect Philip Cox as a Director of the Company. 
 
 
5 
To re-elect Will Gardiner as a Director of the Company. 
 
 
6 To re-elect Andy Skelton as a Director of the Company. 
 
 
7 
To re-elect John Baxter as a Director of the Company. 
 
 
8 To re-elect Nicola Hodson as a Director of the Company. 
 
 
9 To re-elect David Nussbaum as a Director of the Company. 
 
 
10 To re-elect Vanessa Simms as a Director of the Company. 
 
 
11 To reappoint Deloitte LLP as auditor. 
 
 
12 Authority for the directors to determine the auditor’s remuneration. 
 
 
13 Authority to make EU political donations to specified limits. 
 
 
14 Authority to allot shares. 
 
 
15 Authority to make non pre-emptive share allotments.* 
 
 
16 Authority to purchase own shares.* 
 
 
17 To adopt new Articles of Association.* 
 
 
18 Authority to call a General Meeting on not less than 14 days’ notice.*  
 
 
* Special resolution
Signature 
Date
 
SHAREHOLDERS ARE ENCOURAGED TO SUBMIT THEIR PROXY VOTING INSTRUCTIONS IN ADVANCE  
OF THE MEETING
Freepost RTHJ CLLL-KBKU
Equiniti
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
BN99 8LU
Notes
1 
Only holders of ordinary shares, or their duly appointed 
representatives, are entitled to vote at the meeting.  
A shareholder so entitled may appoint (a) proxy(ies), who 
need not be (a) shareholder(s), to exercise all or any of his/
her rights to attend and to speak and vote on his/her behalf 
at the meeting. Unless otherwise instructed, the person 
appointed as proxy will exercise his/her discretion as to  
how he/she votes or whether he/she withholds a vote on any 
particular resolution and on any other business (including 
amendments to resolutions and any procedural business), 
which may come before the AGM.
2 
Shareholders and duly appointed proxies will also be able  
to participate electronically. Instructions on how to view the 
webcast electronically are included on this Proxy Card and  
in the Notice of Meeting. Every shareholder has the right  
to appoint some other person(s) of his or her choice, who 
need not be a shareholder, as his or her proxy to exercise all 
or any of his or her rights, to vote electronically and submit 
questions on their behalf at the meeting. If you wish to 
appoint a person other than the Chair, please insert the 
name of your chosen proxy holder in the space provided.  
If the proxy is being appointed in relation to less than your full 
voting entitlement, please enter, in the box below the proxy 
holder’s name, the number of shares in relation to which 
they are authorised to act as your proxy. If this box is left 
blank, your proxy will be deemed to be authorised in respect 
of your full voting entitlement (or if this proxy form has been 
issued in respect of a designated account for a shareholder, 
the full voting entitlement for that designated account).
3 
You can appoint the Chairman of the AGM to be your proxy 
at the AGM.
4 
The Form of Proxy gives your proxy full rights to attend, 
speak and vote at the AGM.
5 
Please indicate with an “X” in the boxes provided how you 
wish your vote to be cast. Unless otherwise instructed, the 
person appointed a proxy will exercise his/her discretion as 
to how he/she votes or whether he/she abstains from voting 
on any particular resolution and on any other business 
(including amendments to resolutions and any procedural 
business), which may come before the AGM.
6 
The ‘Vote withheld’ boxes are provided to enable you to 
abstain from voting on any particular resolution. You should 
note, however, that a ‘Vote withheld’ is not a vote in law and 
will not be counted in determining the proportion of votes 
cast ‘For’ and ‘Against’ a resolution on a poll
7 
Paper proxy forms must be received at Equiniti Limited, 
Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 
6DA, not later than 48 hours before the Annual General 
Meeting to be effective (i.e. before 11.30am on 19 April 2021). 
If the proxy form is signed by someone else on your behalf, 
his or her authority to sign must be returned with the proxy 
form. In the case of a corporation, the appointment of a 
proxy must be executed either under its common seal or by 
a duly authorised officer or agent. In the case of joint holders, 
any holder may sign. The vote of a more senior joint holder 
on the Register will be accepted to the exclusion of a junior 
joint holder. For this purpose, the order in which the names 
of the joint holders are recorded in the register of members 
will determine seniority.
 
Alternatively Electronic Proxy Appointment (EPA) is available 
for this Meeting. To use this facility you must visit www.
sharevote.co.uk where details of the procedure are shown. 
The Voting ID, Task ID and Shareholder Reference Number 
shown on the Proxy Form will be required to complete the 
procedure. EPA will not be valid if received after 11.30am  
on Monday 19 April 2021 and will not be accepted if found  
to contain a computer virus.
8 
Only those shareholders registered in the register of 
members of the Company at 6.30 pm on 19 April 2021  
((or, in the event of any adjournment, 6.30pm on the date 
which is two days before the time of the reconvening 
adjourned meeting) shall be entitled to vote at the AGM  
in respect of the number of shares registered in their 
respective names at that time. Changes to entries on the 
register after the relevant deadline shall be disregarded in 
determining the rights of any person voting at the AGM. Full 
details of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM, with 
explanatory notes, are set out in the enclosed Notice of AGM.
9 
Information on voting electronically via the internet  
or through CREST is contained in the notes to the Notice  
of AGM. 
10  Any alterations to this proxy form should be initialled.
Further information about the AGM
If you would like to view the meeting electronically, please follow 
the instructions on pages 17 and 18 of the Notice of Meeting.  
You will require the following details:
Meeting ID: 123-088-802
Username: Shareholder Reference Number (SRN)
Password: First and last two digits of your SRN
To watch and listen to the presentations and submit questions  
in writing, you will need to log in to the meeting via the website 
‘https://web.lumiagm.com’. You will need the Meeting ID,  
your Username and Password.
If you have appointed a proxy or corporate representative they 
will need their own username and password which can be 
obtained by contacting the Company’s registrar before 11:30am 
on 20 April 2021 on 0371 684 2030 or +44(0) 121 415 7047  
if you are calling from outside the UK. 
