Supporting Green Jobs 
Prepared by the REA’s Energy Storage Forum - Longer-Duration Energy Storage Working Group
Longer-Duration Energy Storage: The missing piece 
to a Net Zero, reliable and low-cost energy future
The need for longer -
duration energy storage
Enabling investment in 
longer -duration storage
Conclusions
Sources
Introduction
1.
2.
Executive Summary
3.
4.
5.
6.
Barriers to development
 
 
CONTENTS
                                                                                                                                                                                      PAGE  |  5
| LONGER-DURATION ENERGY STORAGE: A MISSING PIECE TO NET ZERO
 
1.  
Introduction
All pathways to Net Zero have one thing in common: they require large amounts of flexibility in our 
energy system to support high levels of variable renewable generation coupled with changes in consumer 
behaviour. In the Sixth Carbon Budget, the Committee on Climate Change noted that ‘storage will be 
important to manage variable output’ from an electricity system based on renewables1. Managing an energy 
system predominately powered by renewables and with greater flexibility will lower the cost of the energy 
transition and enable the electrification of heat and transport.
Several independent organisations have published studies on the future role of flexibility in Great Britain’s 
electricity system. The findings are clear - flexibility will be critical for solving the future challenges of a 
decarbonised electricity system that relies on variable generation, delivering net benefits in the order of 
billions of pounds per year.
 
Imperial College London, report commissioned by the Committee for Climate Change (CCC)2  
As illustrated in the figure below from National Grid Electricity System Operator’s 2020 Future Energy 
Scenarios (FES), flexibility can be provided by a host of different technologies, both from the demand and 
the supply side. 
Flexibility can also be supplied by overseas providers through interconnectors, as well as through synergies 
with hydrogen and various forms of gas, including green gas3.
Figure 1. System Flexibility: 
Future Energy Scenarios 2020, National Grid ESO4  
1   Committee on Climate Change (2020) Sixth Carbon Budget - Electricity Generation, 21.
2  Imperial College for the CCC (2018) Analysis of alternative heat decarbonisation pathway, 39. See also: Imperial College for the CCC (2015) Value of 
flexibility in a decarbonised grid and system externalities of low carbon generation technologies. 
3  In addition to Biomass or BECCS, other dispatchable generation could include generation-integrated energy storage technologies, such as concentrated 
solar power. 
4  National Grid ESO (2020) Future Energy Scenarios, 99.
A lack of greater system flexibility could further increase system costs 
by more than £16 billion per year 
An energy system powered in the main by variable sources will require drastically 
increased provision of energy storage at all scales. Flexibility markets are presently 
dominated in the UK by fossil fuel assets, and the recent encouraging take-up of short-
duration energy storage technologies has not been matched by growth in longer-duration 
technologies.  
Currently, the UK has 2.8GW of Pumped Hydro energy storage and a limited number of 
Compressed Air Energy Storage and Liquid Air Energy Storage sites in development. By 
contrast, several major studies that have been published in the last few years on the need 
for longer-duration energy storage in the UK estimate at least 20GW-40GW (exceeding 
200GWh) will be required. These estimates could change, but if they do, are likely to 
increase rather than decrease as the energy transition accelerates.
Clean forms of synchronous longer-duration storage can play a greater role in addressing 
the growing challenges associated with system stability and network constraints. The 
paper discusses a range of clean technologies with duration of more than 4 hours, with 
some of them reaching up to 24 hours, though arguments made may also have some 
relevance to energy storage solutions capable of providing an even longer duration, such 
as hydrogen.
The existing market framework provides investors in longer-duration storage with very 
low certainty of income, which disincentivises deployment when viewed in context of the 
high Capex cost of such projects, which are typically on a large scale.  
The paper clarifies why existing market mechanisms are not unlocking investment in 
longer-duration storage technologies and outlines some of the options the UK could 
consider to enable deployment of these technologies, including an Income Floor and a 
Regulated Asset Base model.
The REA calls the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy (BEIS) and 
Ofgem to issue a joint Call for Evidence on longer-duration storage alongside the 
forthcoming update to the Smart Systems and Flexibility Plan:
| LONGER-DURATION ENERGY STORAGE: A MISSING PIECE TO NET ZERO
 
 
Executive Summary
Seeking input from National Grid ESO, the wider industry, and 
academia on how much electricity storage will be required in a Net 
Zero energy system across different timescales; 
Looking into the challenges of capital-intensive, large scale 
flexibility projects with long construction periods and exploring 
possible options to enable their deployment; 
Assessing how existing barriers to wider deployment of longer-
duration energy storage can be removed and an appropriate market 
framework put in place.
| LONGER-DURATION ENERGY STORAGE: A MISSING PIECE TO NET ZERO
Despite an increase in the number of low carbon technologies, GB flexibility markets remain dominated by 
higher carbon assets today. According to analysis from the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial 
Strategy (BEIS), during the early COVID-19 lockdown period (April-May 2020) emissions from Balancing 
Mechanism (BM) actions made up between 15-25% of total power sector emissions. 
Figure 2. Balancing mechanism emissions as a proportion of total electricity sector emissions: 
Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy, Carbon in Flexibility Markets Workshop (October 2020)5
Increasing the amount of flexibility on the system is not the only challenge ahead of us. Ensuring that 
flexibility comes from the lowest possible carbon sources will be essential to reaching Net Zero. To this end, 
it is important that the market framework sends clear price signals to drive investments in clean flexible 
technologies, including energy storage.
Energy Storage is one of the most important sources of low-carbon flexibility6, delivering multiple consumer 
and environmental benefits:
     (i)      Reduces costlier investment in other dispatchable backup generation whilst contributing to security  
 
of supply;
    (ii) 
Provides a range of ancillary services at reduced cost to consumers, increasing system stability and
              resilience;
   (iii) 
Reduces the need for investment in transmission capacity and interconnection; 
   (iv) 
Distributed storage can reduce the need for distribution network reinforcement; and
    (v) 
Enables greater utilisation of renewables by reducing the need to curtail wind output to manage 
              constraints.
5  Department for Business (2020), Energy and Industrial Strategy, Carbon in Flexibility Markets Workshop
6  Imperial College and Carbon Trust (2016) “Can storage help reduce the cost of a future UK electricity system?”,6.  
                                                                                                                                                                                      PAGE  |  6
Energy storage systems provide a wide array of technological approaches to managing our power supply in 
order to create a more resilient energy infrastructure and bring cost savings to consumers. 
They can be classified into five broad categories:
    1. 
Mechanical, including Pumped Hydro, Compressed Air Energy Storage (CAES) 
    2. 
Electrochemical, including Lithium-ion Batteries, Flow Batteries;
    3. 
Electrical, including Superconducting Magnetic Energy Storage (SMES) & Supercapacitors;
    4. 
Chemical, including Power to Hydrogen and Power to Methane; 
    5. 
Thermal, including Molten Salts, Pumped-Heat, and Liquid Air Energy Storage (LAES);
Figure 3. The five key forms of energy storage and the main technologies
Drax Electric Insights Quarterly (Q3 2019)7  
The pandemic has brought forward pressures on our electricity system that were anticipated to occur in 
the future. The lack of dispatchable synchronous resources at times of low residual demand increased the 
system operability challenges. Furthermore, extreme weather events are occurring at a higher frequency 
and intensity than previously forecast by climate change scientists for this period. Storage technologies can 
provide cost-efficient solutions to system stability and resilience. A new report from Imperial College for 
SSE Renewables estimates that by 2050 up to £411m per year could be saved ‘in a highly flexible GB system 
(a high level of distributed demand-side response is available)’ by just 2GW of new long-duration Pumped 
Hydro storage plants, while up to £511m savings could be made in a less flexible system8. The authors of 
this report, however, argue that even more could be saved and further system stability could be secured 
with much more capacity introduced from new plants using a diverse range of longer-duration energy 
storage technologies.
7  Drax (Q3 2019) Drax Electric Insights Quarterly 
8  Imperial College for SSE Renewables (2021) Whole-System Value of Long-Duration Energy Storage in a Net-Zero Emission Energy System for Great Britain, 7.
                                                                                                                                                                                      PAGE  |  7
| LONGER-DURATION ENERGY STORAGE: A MISSING PIECE TO NET ZERO
                                                                                                                                                                                      PAGE  |  8
                                                                                                                                                                                      PAGE  |  9
| LONGER-DURATION ENERGY STORAGE: A MISSING PIECE TO NET ZERO
 
2.  
The need for longer -duration storage
In a power system dominated by variable renewables, the scale and the duration of our flexibility needs will 
be determined by weather patterns. Bulk energy storage from a variety of sources will be needed to ensure 
dispatchable power can be securely provided under all weather conditions. Storage will be equally crucial 
for absorbing excess renewable generation at times when supply exceeds demand.
There is not yet a universally agreed definition of long-duration energy storage, hence why this paper 
chooses the term ‘longer-duration storage’ to reflect the fact that a very wide range of technologies may be 
defined as providing longer-duration storage. Short-duration storage (and not medium or long-duration 
energy storage) technologies currently are seen as more investable in terms of the reliability of returns due 
to current market structures.9   
Energy storage technologies can be classified in the following groups with respect to 
duration:
 
A.  Providing energy up to four hours 
 
B.  Providing energy up to 24 hours
 
C.  Providing energy up to two weeks
 
D.  Inter-seasonal 
 
The above delineations should not be considered benchmarks, but the four-hour delineation should give 
an approximate notion of how the technologies listed below can be differentiated from shorter-duration 
technologies. We have chosen these four categories because technologies that fall into each have different 
needs and provide varying services. For instance, lithium-ion batteries, which fall into category A in terms of 
duration, are relatively easy to build, have a shorter lifetime and are less capital intensive compared to large 
scale long-duration storage projects (e.g. Pumped Hydro). Longer and shorter-duration technologies face 
arguably different challenges and this paper focusses on the larger scale as that segment generally receives 
less attention to mitigate those challenges, particularly from a regulatory perspective at present.
This paper will look primarily at category B, with some relevance to C and D. 
Category B includes (but is not exclusive to) the following technologies10:
 
•  Compressed Air Energy Storage (CAES);
 
•  Liquid Air Energy Storage (LAES);
 
•  Pumped Hydro energy storage;
 
•  Gravity batteries;
 
•  Flow batteries;
There are two main reasons why the paper focusses on Category B. First, because an evidence base is 
being formed highlighting that GB will need considerable amount of additional longer-duration storage 
operational by 2030. The second reason is that although several technologies within this category are 
readily available for commercial deployment, the current market framework acts as a barrier to investment 
in them. Categories C and D remain emerging and therefore face different challenges. It is important to 
note, however, that other technologies may join Category B and that some of those listed as ‘Category B’ 
may in time evolve to be capable of providing energy for an even longer period. 
In the latest FES publication, National Grid ESO estimated that in 2050 total electricity energy storage will 
range from 110GWh to 200GWh, corresponding to total capacity ranging from approximately 20GW to 
40GW11. National Grid ESO expect a significant share of this to come from longer-duration technologies, 
such as Pumped Hydro, CAES and LAES.
9  See the debate in Greentech Media (2020), ‘So, what exactly is Long-duration Energy Storage?’ for a range of definitions.
10 See REA (2016) ‘Energy Storage in the UK: An Overview’ for more information on how each technology works.
11 National Grid ESO (2020) Future Energy Scenarios, 112.
As the modelling approach in the industry focuses on energy balancing across GB without limits for the 
current network or operability constraints, it relies upon a series of assumptions (as does all modelling), 
this calls into question whether the amount of storage required has been robustly understood, however 
we consider this debate to be beyond the scope of this paper. Indeed, it is possible that even the most 
ambitious scenario (e.g. the FES’ ‘Leading the Way’ scenario) underestimates the role storage could play, as 
they may not fully consider the system’s stability requirements (i.e. need for ancillary services) or thermal 
network constraints. Therefore, they may not fully capture the value that storage could deliver to the 
system.
Two major industry reports have recently assessed the need for long-duration storage and have argued a 
need for up to 40GW. Aurora estimates that by 2050, daily storage needs will reach 216GWh corresponding 
to 30GW of capacity13, and it projects a weekly back-up capacity need of 21GW. Jacobs argues that ‘our 
analyses show that there is a compelling case for developing a further 40GW of long-term storage, with a 
storage capacity of some 5,000GWh’14. Jacobs estimates that even its lower end scenario of 30GW of new-
build long-duration storage needed would be more than a tenfold increase compared to current levels15. 
Achieving this objective would require a major development programme for longer-duration storage 
comprising Pumped Hydro, CAES, LAES and hydrogen storage, implemented in 10GW stages between now 
and 2050, with the first stage being implemented by 2030. 
Currently, the UK currently has a capacity of c.2.8GW of Pumped Hydro, and 5.3MW of LAES storage16. An 
unknown amount of CAES and LAES storage and new Pumped Hydro is planned. Trial projects for gravity 
batteries and other innovative technologies also exist. However, the current level of capacity leaves the UK 
very far short of all the major forecast requirements for longer-duration energy storage.
We acknowledge however that all forecasts must make assumptions in their modelling, and that these 
models incorporate some assumptions as to which technologies (including electricity via interconnectors) 
will be widely used and how much they will cost to develop versus returns - these factors are likely to 
change in the future. There are a range of views within the energy storage industry on how the modelling 
could be further advanced, however the authors of this paper are of the view that while a close forecast 
for the ‘need’ for longer-duration storage in the long-term is still under debate, the “scale” of the ‘need’ by 
comparison to the level of longer-duration storage we currently have, is indisputable. 
12 National Grid ESO (2020) Future Energy Scenarios, 112.
13 Aurora (2019) The road to 2050: The need for flexibility in a high renewables world)
14 Jacobs (2020) Strategy for Long-Term Energy Storage in the UK, 13.
15 Jacobs (2020) Strategy for Long-Term Energy Storage in the UK, 63.
16 International Hydropower Association (2018) Country profile - United Kingdom All the UK’s LAES capacity has been developed by Highview Power.
National Grid ESO, Future Energy Scenarios (FES) 202012
| LONGER-DURATION ENERGY STORAGE: A MISSING PIECE TO NET ZERO
“it will be necessary to develop large-scale storage with longer 
durations to support the decarbonisation of the power system” 
                                                                                                                                                                                      PAGE  |  10
Figure 4. Evolution of flexibility needs
Aurora (2019), The Road to 2050: The need for flexibility in a high renewables world13
 
13 Aurora (2019) The road to 2050: The need for flexibility in a high renewables world)
| LONGER-DURATION ENERGY STORAGE: A MISSING PIECE TO NET ZERO
                                                                                                                                                                                      PAGE  |  11
| LONGER-DURATION ENERGY STORAGE: A MISSING PIECE TO NET ZERO
 
3.  
Barriers to deployment
Although there is clear evidence that Longer-Duration Storage delivers substantial benefits to GB 
consumers, development of new projects has been limited in the last few decades. Below we explore some 
of the reasons why the current market structures and incentives do not provide a favourable environment 
for investment in existing or new longer-duration storage technologies:
     •     Wholesale Market: revenues derived from net-energy sales through arbitrage payments do not 
currently provide bankable and adequate investment signals due to the price uncertainty involved and their 
short-term nature. Longer-term bilateral contracts between market participants (e.g. suppliers or renewable 
energy generators) and flexibility providers may be further developed in the future, but it is unlikely that 
these would deliver the scale of investment required in longer-duration storage, especially considering the 
high capital requirements and long consultation times involved (e.g. 5-8 years for Pumped Hydro). Much 
of the value provided by energy storage comes from its capacity, balancing, ancillary, stability and other 
services, benefits which are not recognised by Power Purchase Agreements.
     •     Capacity Market (CM):  the CM aims at ensuring resource adequacy at the lowest cost; as 
currently designed, it does not send clear investment signals to support the deployment of large-scale, 
low-carbon flexibility. Critically, the CM does not acknowledge the key benefits that longer-duration 
storage technologies deliver to the system, in areas such as network constraint management, frequency 
and voltage regulation, system stability, and restoration (Black Start). These are procured separately by 
National Grid ESO, in a fragmented (ad hoc and piece-meal) manner and for shorter timescales, involving 
income uncertainty. As result, developers do not see a combined, reliable, long-term price signal that would 
allow them to attract funding at a reasonable cost of capital. Also, the CM does not facilitate projects with 
construction periods in excess of four years, such as Pumped Hydro, as the CM auctions take place four 
years (T-4) and one year (T-1) ahead of the delivery year. While technically, a developer could start building a 
project and then bid when four years of construction time remains, this is not a feasible way of developing 
any project and would be close-to impossible to finance.
     •     Contracts-for-Difference (CfD):  the CfD scheme is the government’s main instrument to 
support investment in low-carbon and renewable generation (e.g. wind, solar, nuclear, etc.). Enhancing 
investment in flexible capacity is not its main objective. The CfD model incentivises generators to produce as 
much electricity as possible. As such, it is not appropriate for stimulating investment in flexible technologies, 
which bring value by operating at specific times, responding to market conditions and system requirements.
 
     •     Balancing & Ancillary Services: 
              o 
The contract duration is short (e.g. one day, one week or one month). Yet investments in  
 
 
large scale infrastructure projects depreciate over many years (e.g. 15-25 years) in order to  
 
 
reflect their operational lifetime, which can in certain cases exceed 50 years (e.g. Pumped  
 
 
Hydro). This means that there is a lack of security of returns for investors considering  
 
 
developing longer-duration energy storage projects, making them less bankable, especially  
 
 
as they usually have a high upfront capital cost.
              o 
Different ancillary services are procured separately and contracts from various services  
 
 
cannot always be stacked effectively. This fails to send a clear price signal for investment  
 
 
in technologies with technical characteristics that could provide several services at a lower  
 
 
cost overall. Some separately-procured services cannot be provided separately by longer- 
 
 
duration energy storage plants - for instance, all provide inertia. If, for instance, a plant wins  
 
 
a contract for one service but not another, and the services cannot be separated out, the  
 
 
plant will not be fully renumerated for the services it provides. This also puts the System  
 
 
Operator in a difficult position.
 
o 
Unlike the wholesale energy market, ancillary services markets are relatively shallow and 
 
 
illiquid. They are often location-specific (e.g. reactive power) and come with specific technical  
 
 
requirements set by National Grid ESO. This means investors cannot estimate with   
 
 
confidence how their value will evolve over long horizons.
 
o 
The ancillary services market has been under review for several years. Constant change  
 
 
makes it difficult for investors to predict what is the value that can be extracted from these  
 
 
services through the course of a lifetime of an asset.
                                                                                                                                                                                      PAGE  |  12
| LONGER-DURATION ENERGY STORAGE: A MISSING PIECE TO NET ZERO
 
 
o 
Contracts do not account for long construction lead-times that some longer-duration  
 
 
storage technologies require (e.g. 6-8yrs for Pumped Hydro). Therefore, no value from  
 
 
ancillary services can be secured at the point of final investment decision in new capital- 
 
 
intensive assets. Uncertainty over returns makes these projects less attractive to investors  
 
 
and drives up the cost of capital. 
 
o 
Black Start / Distributed ReStart project (currently under Pathfinders), is currently difficult for  
 
 
some longer-duration energy storage technologies to access as there is a lack of clarity  
 
 
over whether energy storage’s role in the mechanism (for example, if is considered the  
 
 
primary plant or the main plant, with each having different requirements).  
 
o 
Some of the ancillary services, such as inertia, stability services and reactive power, which  
 
 
are essential for secure system operations, are not ascribed the correct economic value  
 
 
today. For example, the inherent inertia produced by power plants and synchronous longer- 
 
 
duration storage technologies, is not appraised or rewarded separately, so is effectively  
 
 
provided for free, alongside energy. Thus it is significantly underpriced, which belies its  
 
 
value to the system’s stability. Also, most reactive power is currently compensated under a  
 
 
regulated price which does not reflect its true value to the system.
     • 
Network Constraints:   
 
o 
The transmission system and distribution systems need to transfer large amounts of energy
 
  
from the generation areas to major load centres. Network constraints, caused by aging  
 
 
grid infrastructure, limit the amount of power that can be transferred from where it is  
 
 
generated to where it is consumed. This legacy grid infrastructure means that the benefits of 
 
 
longer-duration energy storage are maximised when it is developed close to where the  
 
 
energy will be used. National Grid ESO uses the Balancing Mechanism (BM) to redispatch  
 
 
plants from the market schedule to a profile which can be delivered given the network  
 
 
constraints. However, this also prevents new projects, including storage, from gaining  
 
 
economically feasible grid connections.
 
o 
The potential for storage to reduce the cost of managing network constraints, by deferring  
 
 
or avoiding the need for network reinforcement where efficient to do so, remains largely  
 
 
untapped, as the current market provides limited price signals to reflect this. National Grid  
 
 
ESO’s efforts to explore the role that storage could play in addressing network constraints  
 
 
are welcome17. However, effective competition between network and commercial service  
 
 
providers can only happen if there is a level playing field.
              o 
The contract duration is short (e.g. one day, one week or one month). Yet investments in  
 
 
large scale infrastructure projects depreciate over many years (e.g. 15-25 years) in order to  
 
 
reflect their operational lifetime, which can in certain cases exceed 50 years (e.g. Pumped  
 
 
Hydro).
 
o 
While certain components that make up network charges could be charged in a more 
 
 
dynamic and cost-reflective manner to incentivise flexibility, these signals alone would most  
 
 
likely be insufficient (i.e. they would not provide an adequate and bankable revenue stream  
 
 
to incentivise investment in capital-intensive projects). 
Together the factors set out above create an onerous environment for investment in longer-duration 
storage projects. Some of the barriers detailed above, such as the lack of certainty over returns, can be 
particularly difficult to overcome where projects involve high Capex requirements and long lead-time before 
they begin operation (e.g. 6-8 years). The barriers that inhibit all large-scale, longer-duration energy storage 
projects present a strong risk for investors looking to aid the development of full-scale plants using new or 
partially new technology.
17 Network Options Assessment (NOA)
                                                                                                                                                                                      PAGE  |  13
| LONGER-DURATION ENERGY STORAGE: A MISSING PIECE TO NET ZERO
 
Case study of barriers to deployment: A proposed CAES facility in Cheshire
This case study concerns Storelectric’s proposals for a 40-100MW Compressed Air Energy Storage (CAES) 
facility providing around 5 hours of energy storage duration, including the potential application of 
Thermal Energy Storage (TES) which could be run with green hydrogen, with a high level of grid-to-grid 
efficiency18. 
Storelectric’s proposals concern several salt caverns which are man-made and pre-existing, in an area 
where there is active solution mining of salt as a feedstock for the chemical industry; though elsewhere, 
salt caverns can be created specifically for this purpose. 
CAES systems can provide a range of services to national and local electricity grid operators, which will 
be vital to help manage the grid as we progress towards Net Zero, including natural inertia (in this case, 
delivered 24/7), stability, voltage/frequency control, imbalance pricing and arbitrage hedging services, 
Black Start, Power Purchase Agreements, and other services. 
Moreover, there are a very wide range of viable salt cavern location sites in the UK, with potential for 
far greater deployment. These often coincide with areas of intensive former industrial activity and with 
coastal areas close to wind farms, where the grid is currently heavily constrained. Pressure on the grid 
will only increase as the energy transition progresses. Co-location of storage and wind farms can help 
reduce capital costs and help deliver both balancing and stability services where the grid most needs 
them. Development of these sites would therefore fit with the Government’s ‘levelling up’ agenda which 
seeks to regenerate post-industrial regions, and they would also take up little space above ground. 
They also support the government’s green agenda, enabling the cost-effective, reliable and resilient 
decarbonisation of the grid.
Many of the key requirements to make this site viable are in place. Planning authorities and the local 
populace are supportive of salt cavern development and use in the area. Contractors who are interested 
in supplying the equipment, and system operators for the long-term management of the facility, have 
provided written statements of intent in the project and in other potential sites for development. 
                                                                                                                                                                                      PAGE  |  14
| LONGER-DURATION ENERGY STORAGE: A MISSING PIECE TO NET ZERO
 
4.  
Enabling investment in Longer -  
 
 
 
 
Duration Energy Storage Projects
| LONGER-DURATION ENERGY STORAGE: A MISSING PIECE TO NET ZERO
The current merchant model presents a significant barrier to the development of large-scale, longer-
duration energy storage projects. Given the long construction period of large infrastructure projects, and 
the time that will be required for consenting and procurement, action needs to be taken now if we are to 
see the first batch of new longer-duration storage commissioned by 2030. 
Therefore, while a more fundamental review of the market design may be desirable, we believe that 
government, supported by Ofgem, should aim to establish a future-proof income stabilisation mechanism to de-
risk investment in longer-duration energy storage, building on the existing market arrangements.  
This would enable longer-duration energy storage projects to truly compete with smaller-scale and shorter-
duration technologies that require a much smaller Capex but target the same revenue streams. Such a 
mechanism would be a significant and ‘no regrets’ step towards setting the UK on track to achieve Net Zero 
target by 2050.
The REA considers it important that the mechanism should meet the following criteria:
    1. 
Compatible with the operational profile of storage, incentivising efficient   
 
dispatch through price signals 
    2. 
De-risks investments effectively, reducing the cost of capital, while protecting  
 
consumers from undue risks and excessive costs.
    3. 
Enables participation from a range of technologies, including emerging ones,  
 
ensuring effective competition in the process and encouraging growth of new  
 
technologies. 
Meeting these criteria will be necessary to ensure the growth in deployment of longer-duration energy 
storage technologies.
Overleaf we use a ‘traffic light’ (green, amber, red) scoring approach to illustrate how four different 
approaches to revenue stabilisation would meet these criteria when applied to longer-duration storage 
projects. We recognise that the extent to which the different mechanisms meet certain criteria is largely 
contingent on their detailed design, which may vary. 
The mechanisms assessed are:
Income Floor;
An Income Floor model provides security to investors by introducing a minimum amount that the longer-
duration energy storage plant operator can earn. This means that if an operator does not earn enough 
revenue from operations, it will be topped up to the minimum level.
Regulatory Asset Base (RAB);
This mechanism aims to incentivise investment by securing returns and payback for developers. The model 
would see companies receive a Government contract. Companies own and operate the project, and in 
return receive regulated retuns. This guarantees a more secure rate of return, reducing risk for investors.
Capacity Market (CM);
The Capacity Market is a mechanism that works to ensure electricity supply continues to meet demand 
in the long-term. It works by offering fixed monthly payments (per MW) to generators, providing assured 
revenue to investors, and encourages demand-side response operators to reduce demand to alleviate 
consumption. Participants bid for contracts one or four years ahead of delivery.
Contracts for Difference (CfD)
This scheme incentivises investment in renewable electricity generation by protecting investors from volatile 
wholesale prices, reducing investor risk. The Government pays the generator any difference between the 
value of the reference price of the power and the strike price, and any returns above the reference price are 
paid to Government.
                                                                                                                                                                                      PAGE  |  15
While these projects have been appraised by third parties as economically viable there does however, 
remain one major barrier to the development of the proposals - longer term security of returns for 
investors. As a pioneering project for a technology which is proven but which has not yet been deployed 
in this version, investors cannot currently have full confidence about the levels of long-term returns on 
the project.
For first-of-a-kind plants such as that outlined in this case study, the absence of a long-term contract 
prior to construction, and planning consent, can present an insurmountable risk for investors. The 
short lengths of contracts for energy storage are a particular barrier for such projects, which require 
several years to develop and will be operational for many years beyond the short contracts on offer, 
along with the lack of financial reward for providing important services to the grid such as inertia. 
Contracts for services tend to have a short period between the contract being tendered and agreed, 
and the commencement of services, which further hinders the development of assets, due to the long 
construction time and length of time required to undertake grid connection works. Though not a perfect 
solution, the development of Enhanced Frequency Response contracts, with a term around half the life of 
a battery was an important step in increasing the deployment of batteries as it provided greater certainty 
for investors than before. 
The salami slicing of services, where different services have separate contracts, also complicates 
navigating the market for larger, longer-duration assets which are able to provide a range of services, as 
investors need to be confident of gaining several different services contracts to make the business model 
viable. 
18 Further information on how such a system works can be found in Zhou et al, ‘A review of thermal energy storage in compressed air energy storage 
system’, Energy Vol.188 (2019).
                                                                                                                                                                                      PAGE  |  16
| LONGER-DURATION ENERGY STORAGE: A MISSING PIECE TO NET ZERO
1) Compatible with the operational 
profile of storage, incentivising 
efficient dispatch through price 
signals.
2) De-risks investments effectively, 
reducing the cost of capital, while 
protecting consumers from undue 
risks and higher costs.
3) Enables participation from a 
range of technologies, ensuring 
competitive tension in the award 
process.
                                                                                                                                                                                      PAGE  |  17
Under the Income Floor model, dispatch 
decisions would still be driven by price 
signals (e.g. wholesale market, balancing 
market, ancillary services). An Income 
Floor model would give energy storage 
providers an incentive to maximise the 
commercial value of plant operation, a 
benefit to consumers also.
The Income Floor model would de-risk 
all revenue streams (i.e. energy, capacity 
and ancillary services), providing 
long-term certainty (e.g. 20 years) to 
investors. This should reduce the cost 
of capital, benefiting investors and 
consumers. 
REA acknowledges that the Government 
may consider including a ‘cap’ as part of 
an income floor mechanism - in which 
instance a high cap should be used 
to avoid disincentivising investment. 
Revenue above the cap could be used 
to support a wide shared across funding 
pots for a wide range of energy storage 
technologies.
Construction risks would sit with the 
developer, removing exposure of 
consumers. However, this could make it 
more difficult for emerging technologies 
to attract investor support. 
Income Floor(s) could be awarded 
to projects following competitive 
tender processes, which would 
involve participation from a range of 
technologies.
Would involve complex design to 
incentivise efficient operation though 
price signals, but theoretically it could 
be possible.
The traditional RAB approach regulates 
returns fully, de-risking the investment 
more than the other mechanisms.
Investors benefit from high levels of 
protection from risks, including during 
the construction phase. From an 
investor perspective, this is favourable 
when considering investment in 
technologies that are relatively new 
to the energy market. However, this 
means customers may face risks 
from cost overruns (depending on 
the detailed methodology set by the 
regulator). 
Could involve competitive pressure 
in the award process, but possibly 
less compared to the Income Floor as 
may require a regulatory regime to be 
developed for each project separately 
- a resource intensive exercise that 
may not be easily delivered for many 
projects at the same time.
As currently designed, the CM does not 
incentivise flexibility or consider other 
system needs that longer-duration 
storage can address (e.g. ancillary 
services).
The CM leaves investors exposed to 
merchant risk from energy arbitrage and 
system support services.
In its current form (which doesn’t 
consider system support capabilities, CO2 
emissions, etc), it is unlikely to result in 
sufficient revenues to enable investment 
in capital-intensive longer-duration 
energy storage projects.
As currently designed, the CM favours low 
Capex/ high Opex projects (e.g. OCGTs 
over CCGTs).
Also it isn’t suitable for new build 
technologies with construction time 
in excess of four years (T-4), such as 
Pumped Hydro.
 
Incentivises plants to maximise their energy production 
(guaranteed price per MWh produced). This is incompatible 
with the operational profile of storage which should be 
incentivised to import electricity when prices are low and 
export at times of scarcity, and to maximise delivery of 
value-added services.
The CfD has been successful in improving the bankability 
of low carbon and renewable energy projects, as illustrated 
by the high uptake and investment over the years in 
some of the  technologies supported by it. However, it 
would not de-risk investment in longer-duration energy 
projects effectively. This is because it applies only to 
energy revenues, and does not secure possible additional 
income from balancing and ancillary services, vital to 
the profitability of energy storage. This leaves investors 
exposed to merchant risk from balancing and ancillary 
services and could discourage investment.
The CfD has been effective in enabling competition 
between projects. It can also enable competition between 
different technologies, (depending on the chosen pot 
structure).
  Criteria  
 
     Income Floor  
   Regulated Asset      Capacity Market  
Contracts for Difference  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   Base (RAB)              (CM)  
 
 
 
(CfD) 
‘Traffic light’ (green         amber         red         ) scoring.
| LONGER-DURATION ENERGY STORAGE: A MISSING PIECE TO NET ZERO
                                                                                                                                                                                      PAGE  |  18
| LONGER-DURATION ENERGY STORAGE: A MISSING PIECE TO NET ZERO
Analysising which approach would be best
     1.    Compatible with the operational profile of storage, incentivising efficient dispatch  
 
through price signals 
The Income Floor model appears the most compatible with the operational profile of storage, which 
focusses on the provision of flexibility and ancillary services. Under the Income Floor approach, dispatch 
decisions would be driven by market price signals (e.g. wholesale market, balancing market, ancillary 
services).
The RAB could be compatible with the operational profile of storage, but incentives would need to be 
carefully designed to avoid potential market distortions. 
The CM, as currently designed, aims at ensuring system adequacy at the lowest cost. While it ensures that 
dispatch conditions are driven by existing price signals, it does not consider the system’s flexibility, stability 
or resilience needs. 
The CfD model, if applied to storage, would likely lead to inefficient dispatch decisions, distorting market 
operation. This is because the CfD incentivises assets to maximise their energy production, by guaranteeing 
a fixed price per MWh produced. This is incompatible with the operational profile and value of storage, 
which should be incentivised to import when prices are low and generate at times of scarcity, rather than 
maximise its output.
     2.    De-risks investments effectively, reducing the cost of capital, while protecting  
 
 
consumers from undue risks and excessive costs.
Both the Income Floor and the RAB could de-risk investments in long-duration energy storage projects 
effectively. 
The RAB provides fully regulated returns, providing the highest level of certainty to investors compared to 
the other mechanisms. Under the RAB approach, payments can be made from consumers to developers 
during the construction phase. This may also involve consumers facing construction risks (e.g. cost 
overruns) depending on the detailed arrangements set out by the regulator. 
Under the Income Floor all revenue streams (i.e. energy market arbitrage, capacity market and ancillary 
services) are taken into account in determining whether returns (gross margin) are below the Floor. The 
contract would be for an annual income floor value in £/MW terms, conditional upon the availability of 
flexibility resources, including MWhs of storage, MVArs of reactive power, and a frequency response/
inertia capability. Under the Income Floor, construction risks are borne entirely by investors, which may be 
appropriate for more mature technologies, such as Pumped Hydro.
The CM would leave investors exposed to merchant risk from electricity trading, balancing and ancillary 
services, failing to drive lower cost of capital for investment in longer-duration energy storage projects. 
Technologies that have lower Capex requirements but higher Opex and greater carbon (e.g. gas peakers) 
may be better placed to win CM contracts compared to capital-intensive longer-duration energy storage 
technologies. 
While successful in improving the bankability of low carbon and renewable energy projects, the CfD would 
not de-risk investment in longer-duration energy projects effectively. This is because it applies only to 
energy revenues, and does not secure possible additional income from balancing and ancillary services, vital 
to the profitability of energy storage.
                                                                                                                                                                                      PAGE  |  19
| LONGER-DURATION ENERGY STORAGE: A MISSING PIECE TO NET ZERO
     3.    Enables and encourages participation from a range of technologies, ensuring effective  
 
competition in the process 
Both the Income Floor and the RAB approaches could be designed around system needs rather than 
around specific projects or technologies. Successful projects and allowed returns could be set through a 
competitive tender process, involving participation from a range of technologies.
Due to the scale and lead-time associated with these assets, the number of participants in tender or 
gateway processes may be limited.  If this is the case, then it may be appropriate for a floor value to be set 
by BEIS or Ofgem through an administrative process.   
The CM, as currently designed, does not enable new build longer-duration storage technologies with 
construction times in excess of four years (T-4), such as Pumped Hydro. It also favours low Capex/ high 
Opex projects (e.g. Open Cycle Gas Turbines over Combined Cycle Gas Turbines). Therefore, in its current 
form, it is unlikely to enable competition from capital-intensive longer-duration energy storage projects.
The CfD has been effective in making use of competition between projects and technologies to drive costs 
down. However, as discussed above, the CfD isn’t a suitable mechanism given the operational characteristics 
of longer-duration storage.
                                                                                                                                                                                      PAGE  |  20
| LONGER-DURATION ENERGY STORAGE: A MISSING PIECE TO NET ZERO
Increasing the development of longer-duration energy storage projects is a necessary step to managing a 
grid powered by high levels of variable generation and therefore is vital to Net Zero. As other analyses also 
show, increasing the amounts of new longer-duration energy storage plants coming onto our electricity 
system also has significant cost-saving benefits. 
There is another indisputable and overarching benefit to consumers from wider deployment of longer-
duration energy storage – a more stable energy supply and cushioning from price volatility. A larger, and 
diverse, portfolio of longer-duration storage projects in the UK would also provide greater security of 
supply. As Britain’s neighbours gradually increase the proportion of variable generation powering their 
grids, there will likely be periods where Britain and its neighbours experience system stress at the same 
time due to the impacts of weather on renewable energy outputs.
Our analysis suggests that the two models currently used to incentivise investment in renewable generation 
and ensure security of supply, the Capacity Market and Contracts for Difference, would not be appropriate 
tools for encouraging investment in longer-duration energy storage due to their inability to adequately help 
de-risk earnings from balancing and ancillary services. 
There are therefore two options that could offer appropriate solutions: Income Floor, and RAB. An Income 
Floor could be the most simplest mechanism for incentivising investment, ensuring that dispatch models 
continue to be driven by price signals, and encouraging plant operators to maximise the value of the plant 
for themselves and for consumers,  however REA appreciates that it would require very careful design.
The REA therefore calls on the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy to issue a Call for 
Evidence on how the barriers inhibiting wider development of longer-duration energy storage projects can 
be removed. This could be issued alongside the updated Smart Systems & Flexibility Plan. The Government 
should also explore whether there are any options for quick removal of the regulatory barriers to longer-
duration energy storage in the interim period, recognising that developing a permanent market mechanism 
will take time, though REA ultimately believes that many of these barriers would be best overcome with a 
market mechanism.
                                                                                                                                                                                      PAGE  |  21
| LONGER-DURATION ENERGY STORAGE: A MISSING PIECE TO NET ZERO
     •    Aurora (2019) The road to 2050: The need for flexibility in a high renewables world.
     •    Committee on Climate Change (2020) Sixth Carbon Budget - Electricity Generation. 
     •    Department for Business (2020), Energy and Industrial Strategy, Carbon in Flexibility Markets  
 
           Workshop.
     •    Drax (Q.3 2019) Drax Electric Insights Quarterly.
     •    Drax (2021) Cruachan Dam and Reservoir After Rain
     •    Drax (2021) Panoramic view from Ben Cruachan of reservoir, dam and loch
     •    Greentech Media (2020), ‘So, what exactly is Long-duration Energy Storage?’
     •    Highview Power (2021) Pilsworth Liquid Air Energy Storage (LAES) Plant
     •    Imperial College and Carbon Trust (2016) Can storage help reduce the cost of a future UK electricity system?
     •    Imperial College for the CCC (2018) Analysis of alternative heat decarbonisation pathway. See also:  
           Imperial College for the CCC (2015) Value of flexibility in a decarbonised grid and system externalities  
           of low carbon generation technologies.
     •    Imperial College for SSE Renewables (2021) Whole-System Value of Long-Duration Energy Storage in a  
           Net-Zero Emission Energy System for Great Britain.
     •     International Hydropower Association (2018) Country profile - United Kingdom.
     •     Jacobs (2020) Strategy for Long-Term Energy Storage in the UK.
     •     National Grid ESO (2020) Future Energy Scenarios.
     •     National Grid ESO (2021) Network Options Assessment (NOA).
     •     REA (2016) ’Energy Storage in the UK: An Overview’.
     •     Storelectric (2021) Typical Cavern Layout
     •     Zhou et al (2019), ‘A review of thermal energy storage in compressed air energy storage system’,  
           Energy Vol.188.
 
5.  
Conclusion
 
6.  
Sources
Find Out More and Support the Sector
For further information, please contact:
Isobel Morris - Policy Analyst, REA
imorris@r-e-a.net 
Jack Abbott - PR and Communications Manager, REA
jabbott@r-e-a.net 
If you’re interested in REA membership, please contact:
Lindsay Barnett - Membership, Marketing & Events Director, REA
lbarnett@r-e-a.net 
 The report is available on the REA website, here: 
https://www.r-e-a.net/our-resources/ 
Follow us on Twitter: @REAssociation 
March 2021
WWW.R-E-A.NET
 
THE ASSOCIATION FOR RENEWABLE ENERGY AND CLEAN TECHNOLOGY
Brettenham House, 2-19 Lancaster Place, London, WC2E 7EN
Tel: +44 (0)20 7925 3570 Email: info@r-e-a.net Web: www.r-e-a.net
Company no: 04241430 Registered in England and Wales
