26 August 2022
SUSTAINABLE BIOENERGY
Key takeaways
• Biomass and carbon removals through bioenergy with carbon capture and 
storage (BECCS) can help sectors that are essential, but struggle to decarbonise 
like agriculture, steel, cement, and aviation, move away from fossil fuels.
•  Policy decisions made now must support the ongoing development of biomass 
and BECCS to ensure their role in a net zero future.
• Legislation and regulation must support the scale up of negative emissions 
technologies now, which should include strong ambition and importantly, 
realistic timeframes.
Reaching climate goals depends on decarbonisation across every sector of the 
global economy, all the way through the supply chain. For carbon-intensive 
industries, such as steel, cement, chemicals and the aviation sector, this is a huge 
challenge.
Bioenergy, produced from sustainably sourced biomass wood pellets, can play a 
crucial role in replacing fossil fuels and reducing emissions from these industries. 
The addition of bioenergy with carbon capture and storage can even allow such 
industries to take the crucial step of becoming carbon negative.
Supporting biomass this decade to 
decarbonise the next
Biomass and BECCS are key for the UK, Europe, and the world achieving  
net zero. But investment is needed now to build systems that will decarbonise 
future industries.
Achieving ambitious BECCS plans in Europe requires 
action now to put in place the policy framework, and 
support for the advancement of biomass technologies 
throughout the 2020s, that can enable BECCS to be 
delivered at scale in the 2030s.
Proposed changes to biomass support in the 2020s in the EU’s Renewable Energy 
Directive (RED III) could help reach this goal, but policy decisions must be realistic 
and not set unachievable expectations, or hamper investment in these critical 
solutions. Specifically, BECCS is unlikely to be scaled up until later in the 2020s, 
inevitably after 2026. REDIII must acknowledge this and direct support for carbon 
capture technologies on similar timelines to overall EU emissions reductions 
targets, for example 2030.
Decarbonising heavy industry clusters
One of the key ways to tackle industrial emissions is through the decarbonisation 
of Europe’s industrial clusters. Zero Carbon Humber aims to be the world’s first 
net zero cluster by 2040 through shared carbon capture and storage (CCS) and 
hydrogen infrastructure.
Drax Power Station serves as an anchor for the project, with BECCS technology 
already at a more advanced stage than at any other project around the world. 
Through the emissions removals BECCS makes possible, we aim to be a carbon 
negative business by 2030 and play a key part in decarbonising the Humber – the 
UK’s single most emissions intensive region.
BECCS technology, at Drax and globally, depends on sustained collaboration 
between governments and industries. Importantly, Drax is on track to deliver the 
first scaled up BECCS project by 2027. We are working with government and 
industry to ensure both infrastructure availability and appropriate monitoring, 
reporting and verification is in place at the same time.
Fuelling the future of intensive industries
Negative emissions technologies, such as BECCS, have 
a key role to play in decarbonising other hard-to-abate 
industries.
Steel, cement, and chemical production processes require high amounts of energy. 
Today the vast majority of this comes from fossil fuels. However, biomass, and 
carbon removal through BECCS, can rapidly decarbonise these carbon-intensive 
sectors.
Sustainable aviation fuels (SAF) offer another way to decarbonise a vital, 
but emissions-heavy industry. Research into SAF is ongoing, with a range of 
feedstocks currently in the mix, including animal fats, vegetable oils, and algae. 
But the production of these fuels has its own carbon footprint, and BECCS has 
the potential to mitigate this.
The Sustainable Aviation Fuels Innovation Centre at the University of Sheffield, 
the first research and testing centre of its kind in Europe, is set to open in 2023. 
The facility will lead R&D into how BECCS can be used in the manufacture of zero-
carbon fuels.
Sustained research and investment into biomass and BECCS innovation are 
crucial throughout this decade, to prepare essential technology for the next. 
According to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), 10bn tonnes 
of CO2 may need to be captured by negative emissions technologies annually 
between now and 2050 to prevent catastrophic climate change.
BECCS is the most scalable of these and has the potential to be integrated into 
a wide range of industries. But the right action and policies are needed now to 
create net zero industries by 2050.
