Drax Group plc
Modern Slavery 
Statement 2018
Modern Slavery Statement 2018
Drax Group has over 2,700 employees and operates an 
integrated value chain across three principal areas of 
activity in the US and the UK: sustainable wood pellet 
production; flexible, low carbon and renewable energy 
generation; and energy sales and services to business 
customers. Our activities are underpinned by safety, 
sustainability and operational excellence. 
• We are committed to conducting business 
with honesty, integrity and in accordance with 
applicable laws and regulations.
• We have clear policies and standards in place to 
safeguard our employees, temporary employees 
and contractors.
• We respect our employees’ rights in areas such as 
freedom of association and collective bargaining.
• We do not tolerate any form of human trafficking, 
forced or bonded labour or the exploitation of 
children or vulnerable persons in our own business 
or our supply chains.
This is our third Modern Slavery Statement as 
required by the UK Modern Slavery Act. 
In this, we outline the progress made in 2018 and the 
improvements planned for 2019. 
Introduction
“We believe in doing the right thing”
 Governance
Our Group Ethics and Business Conduct 
Committee (“EBCC”), a subcommittee of the 
Executive Committee, oversees our modern slavery 
programme. An annual report on the activity and 
decisions of the EBCC is provided to the Audit 
Committee, which comprises executive and non-
executive directors. 
The EBCC has approved a protocol, based on 
guidance from the Home Office, that must be 
followed if modern slavery is discovered in our 
business or supply chain. Whilst no cases have 
been escalated to date, we continue to work with 
our employees and suppliers to raise awareness 
and promote transparency in our supply chains.
Governance structure and modern slavery programme
“We’re committed to identifying and addressing modern slavery that could 
be connected to our business and supply chain”
Further information on Drax Group, and 
earlier Modern Slavery Statements, can  
be found on our websites 
• www.drax.com
• www.havenpower.com
• www.opusenergy.com
• www.draxbiomass.com
Governance
Risk 
assessment
Speak up 
culture
Due diligence
Training
Policies and 
procedures
Supplier 
contracts
Employment 
practices
Modern Slavery Statement 2018
 Risk assessment 
Our progress in 2018:
■ We completed our annual risk assessment, in line with 
Home Office guidance.
■ We updated our Group-wide modern slavery risk 
register. The register is reviewed on an ongoing basis 
by our Modern Slavery Working Group, with oversight 
provided by the EBCC.
■ We implemented a new counterparty due diligence 
platform across the Group. This enables an initial 
supplier risk assessment to be carried out against 
various indices, including the Global Slavery Index:
• If a supplier is incorporated in, or operates in, a 
high-risk jurisdiction for modern slavery, then our 
supplementary modern slavery survey is issued 
for completion and subsequent scrutiny by the 
relevant due diligence team.
• The survey includes questions on underage 
workers, employee rights and freedoms, use 
of foreign and migrant workers, due diligence 
processes, policies and procedures.
• The platform also enables us to add affiliate 
companies and associated persons (i.e. Directors, 
Shareholders, Ultimate Beneficial Owners) to a 
potential supplier so that they can be risk assessed 
and continually monitored too, where appropriate.
■ We received the output of a report, commissioned 
from an independent third party, to assess human 
rights in the forestry supply chain. The report was 
to better understand the risks associated with our 
woody biomass procurement:
• Several recommendations, such as more in-depth 
assessment of our freight and logistics supply 
chains, were highlighted to enhance our approach.
• We implemented several of the recommendations 
in 2018 and will complete implementation during 
2019.
From a geographical risk perspective, we consider our 
higher-risk supply chains as those that relate to our fuel 
supply. These supply chains continue to be the focus of 
additional due diligence. We review the output of our 
biomass onsite visits and seek to improve our approach 
where appropriate.  
  Due diligence
Country approval
Geographic risk is factored into our country due 
diligence and third party due diligence systems. 
Conducting business in higher risk countries must 
receive prior approval from the Group Operational Risk 
Management Committee.
Supplier approval
Following country approval, potential suppliers residing 
in those jurisdictions can be put forward for due 
diligence. Further strengthening our due diligence 
process, we moved to a new platform in 2018. This 
platform is used by all our business units, both in the UK 
and the US. Due diligence checks are carried out on the 
supplier and, where appropriate, its associated persons 
and supply chain. Should concerns be identified during 
the process, enhanced due diligence may be procured 
from a specialist service provider, before escalation 
to the EBCC for a decision on whether to appoint the 
supplier. 
We use the platform to perform both the initial due 
diligence and continuous monitoring of suppliers. 
Monitoring alerts are reviewed by designated employees 
at the local business unit and escalated to the Business 
Ethics team. 
We engage with suppliers in many different industries 
including forestry, mining, freight and logistics, 
engineering, construction, IT and site services. 
Whilst we have reasonable transparency over our 
fuel supply chains, mapping the supply chain for the 
component parts of items, such as smart meters or 
a replacement turbine, is much more challenging. In 
these circumstances, we seek to ensure due diligence 
is carried out on our contractual counterpart and 
endeavour to include obligations within our agreements 
to cascade our standards to our suppliers’ sub-
contractors (reference section – Supplier contracts).
Drax coal sourcing by country of origin, 2018
Drax biomass feedstock mix by country of origin, 2018
41%
United States
802,201 tonnes
24%
United Kingdom
464,702 tonnes
31%
Russia
601,829 tonnes
4%
Colombia
90,564 tonnes
62%
United States
4.46 million tonnes
17%
Canada
1.24 million tonnes
10%
Latvia
717,274 tonnes
4%
Estonia
294,081 tonnes
3%
Portugal
197,241 tonnes
2%
Brazil
104,850 tonnes 
1%
Belarus
79,581 tonnes
1%
UK
47,740 tonnes
<1%
Lithuania
8,009 tonnes 
<1%
Other European
19,373 tonnes
Modern Slavery Statement 2018
In 2019, we plan to:
• Further enhance our due diligence process and 
procedures, including optimising the functionality of 
our due diligence platform.
• Benchmark available tools, to facilitate the mapping 
of more challenging supply chains (involving multiple 
components from industries and countries where 
there is an increased risk of modern slavery).
  Policies and procedures
We expect our people 
to work in accordance 
with our business 
values. Our HR policies 
and procedures ensure 
our people have the 
appropriate rights to 
work and are employed 
in accordance with 
applicable legislation.
We provide online 
access to our “Doing the 
right thing” handbook. 
This mandatory, 
principles-based policy 
forms part of our 
compliance framework and sets out our values and the 
behaviours expected from our people. The handbook 
is supplemented by additional policies and procedures 
that provide further information and guidance on the 
obligations applicable to the Group and how we aim to 
comply with them. We have a Corporate Crime policy in 
place that provides specific detail in respect of modern 
slavery, in addition to our due diligence procedure.
Should an employee fail to meet the standards expected 
by the business, it will be fully investigated in line with 
the relevant terms of employment and disciplinary 
procedures.
In 2019, we will develop improved guidance for 
employees and suppliers in the form of a Group Code of 
Conduct. 
  Employment practices
A safe and healthy workplace is paramount to our 
business. Our “creating a great place to work” people 
strategy focuses on developing skills and talent, valuing 
our people and driving business performance. Our 
employees are at the heart of our success and are key 
enablers of our business strategy and our ethical culture.
Our employees benefit from a range of policies to 
support them in the workplace. These include policies 
designed to enable different work and lifestyle 
preferences, to encourage employees to raise any 
grievances or concerns, and to support a diverse, 
inclusive and ethical workplace.
Drax Group maintains high standards in its employment 
practices and we strive to give employees employment 
security. A high proportion of our employees are on 
permanent contracts.
Although the risk of modern slavery taking place 
within our business is much lower than through our 
supply chain, our recruitment procedures nevertheless 
incorporate several steps that are designed to eliminate 
such risks. These include: 
• Carrying out “right to work” checks and ensuring that 
agencies used to supply temporary workers carry out 
equivalent checks.
• Carrying out pre-employment checks to verify the 
identity of prospective employees and to ensure that 
such employees are aged over 16.
• Ensuring that an employment contract is in place 
prior to the commencement of employment at Drax 
Group.
Overall, 19% of the workforce across the Group is 
covered by a collective bargaining agreement. For the 
rest of the workforce, employee forums are in place, 
enabling a two-way dialogue between the business and 
our employees. We maintain healthy relationships with 
our trade union partners and attend monthly meetings 
to discuss potential issues that may affect members. 
Matters such as terms and conditions of employment, 
learning and development and business change are 
discussed at these meetings. Annual pay and conditions 
of employment negotiations are also undertaken. 
We communicate with employees on a formal and 
informal basis, including through posters and leaflets, 
our internal intranet, a quarterly newsletter and open 
forum meetings involving members of the senior 
leadership team. Each week the CEO takes questions 
from across the Group on a wide range of topics. His 
responses are shared with the whole workforce.
Doing the 
right thing
Conducting our 
business
123456789012345
World Bank
Mr AN Other
10
Bank of the world
Building a Sustainable Business
Modern slavery instances
No instances of modern slavery were identified in 
2018. One media monitoring alert was investigated 
and closed following direct engagement with the 
counterparty and receipt of satisfactory assurances.
Modern Slavery Statement 2018
  Supplier contracts
Provisions on human rights and modern slavery have 
been incorporated into our Corporate Responsibility 
Statement.
Suppliers are expected to have policies and procedures 
in place that aim to safeguard against direct or indirect 
engagement in activities that would constitute an 
offence under the Modern Slavery Act 2015.
In 2019, we will develop improved guidance for 
employees and suppliers in the form of a new Group 
Code of Conduct. A Group led, targeted supplier audit 
programme is also scheduled to commence in Q1 2019.
  Awareness and training
Our progress in 2018:
• Over 3,000 people received training via a series of six 
short videos, reflecting the content of our ‘Doing the 
right thing’ handbook. These videos, which include 
information on modern slavery and the tell-tale 
signs of modern slavery, were deployed to all Group, 
temporary employees and office-based contractors. 
Mandatory completion with a re-call test was 
required. 
• Members of our Business Ethics and Procurement 
teams attended the 3rd and 4th Modern Slavery & 
Human Rights in Supply Chain Conferences, arranged 
by Front Group. Relevant best practice was shared 
with our Modern Slavery Working Group to assess and, 
as appropriate, add to our programme of works.
• Our Group Sustainability team has continued its 
programme to promote modern slavery awareness 
when conducting biomass supplier site visits and to 
reinforce our ethical requirements.
• Articles on “the UN Global Compact principles” 
and “the importance of third-party due diligence” 
have been published on our Group intranet, to 
improve colleague awareness of our human rights 
commitments.
• A modern slavery specific eLearning package was 
selected and is due to be added to the Group’s 
Learning Management System in 2019. This package 
will initially be assigned, as mandatory learning, to 
teams at higher risk of encountering modern slavery. 
It will also be used to provide annual refresher 
training.
  “Speak up” culture
We encourage those working on behalf of Drax Group to 
challenge unethical behaviour and promote a “speak up” 
culture. Concerns can be raised with line managers, the 
Business Ethics team or a member of the EBCC. 
An independently operated whistleblowing hotline is 
also available, enabling employees to raise concerns 
anonymously. Those expressing genuine concern will 
not be exposed to sanction by the company. We provide 
contact details for suppliers wishing to “speak up” in our 
Corporate Responsibility Statement and will strengthen 
this with the publication of our Group Code of Conduct 
in 2019.
We take allegations of any type of unethical or illegal 
behaviour very seriously. Issues raised to the Business 
Ethics team are investigated and reported to the EBCC.
In 2018, no concerns relating to modern slavery were 
raised through our reporting processes. 
Modern Slavery Statement 2018
Sustainable Biomass Program
In 2013, Drax co-founded the Sustainable Biomass 
Program (SBP) together with six other energy 
companies. The SBP is a certification system designed 
for woody biomass, mostly in the form of wood pellets 
and wood chips, used in industrial, large-scale energy 
production.
SBP proactively encourages the adoption of standards 
and due diligence processes that promote human rights. 
For suppliers to be approved under the certification 
scheme, they must satisfy multiple requirements, 
including those relating to modern slavery due diligence.
Further information on the Sustainable Biomass 
Program can be found on their website.
Bettercoal
Drax is an engaged member of Bettercoal. Bettercoal is 
a global, not-for-profit initiative established by a group 
of major European utilities to promote the continuous 
improvement of corporate responsibility in the coal 
supply chain.
The organisation provides greater assurance that 
the coal we procure comes from mines that take 
a responsible approach to safeguarding workers, 
communities and their local environment.
Further information on Bettercoal can be found on their 
website. 
UN Global Compact
In 2018, we became participants in the UN Global 
Compact (UNGC). The UNGC is a voluntary corporate 
sustainability initiative that encourages businesses 
worldwide to adopt sustainable and socially responsible 
practices. In addition to our general participation, 
we are members of both the UNGC’s Advisory Group 
(which governs the UK Network) and its Modern 
Slavery Working Group. Such involvement enables us to 
collaborate with and benchmark our activities against 
our peers.
Our Annual Report for financial year end 2018 
will contain the detail required for our “UNGC 
Communication on Progress”, including the actions 
taken to demonstrate our commitment to the ten UNGC 
principles and the Sustainable Development Goals we 
are actively progressing.
Further information on the UNGC can be found on their 
website. 
Stakeholder engagement
Like many businesses, we have a diverse group of 
stakeholders who are affected by our global activities. 
These include our shareholders, employees, temporary 
employees, contractors, customers, suppliers, 
communities, government regulators and policymakers, 
academia, non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and 
opinion formers.
We conduct an ongoing mapping exercise to assess how 
the stakeholder landscape is developing and to ensure 
we are recognising and responding to the expectations 
of a broad range of stakeholders across our businesses.
Supply Chain Sustainability School
We invited the Chair of the Supply Chain Sustainability 
School (“SCSS”) to one of our Modern Slavery working 
group meetings. The session improved understanding 
of the SCSS’s activities, prompted discussion on 
process improvements and identified opportunities to 
strengthen our relationship with the SCSS. 
Modern Slavery registries
In 2018, we engaged with the Modern Slavery Registry 
and TISCreport.com to improve the transparency of our 
Modern Slavery Statement reporting.
Charitable donations
We have a practice of collecting Christmas gifts provided 
by suppliers and raffling them to raise funds for charity.
In December 2018, the Salvation Army was selected to 
be the beneficiary because, amongst other reasons, of 
their work to support victims of modern slavery. 
Working together
“We seek to work in partnership 
with others to strengthen our 
learning and approach”
COMMUNITIES 
AND LOCAL 
AUTHORITIES
CUSTOMERS
THINK TANKS 
AND ACADEMICS
SUPPLIERS AND 
CONTRACTORS
GOVERNMENT 
AND 
REGULATORS
NON- 
GOVERNMENTAL 
ORGANISATIONS
SHAREHOLDERS 
AND INVESTORS
SCHOOLS
REGULATOR 
AND NETWORK 
BUSINESSES
EMPLOYEES
PROVIDERS  
OF CAPITAL
TRADE AND 
INDUSTRY 
ASSOCIATIONS
Modern Slavery Statement 2018
Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)
We have internal modern slavery KPIs that measure the effectiveness of our compliance programme. Our EBCC is 
consulted on progress and performance.
Planned initiatives for 2019
In 2019, we will explore strengthening our activities in 
human rights and modern slavery. This will include:
• Finalising the actions identified in the “Assessing 
Human Rights in the Forestry Supply Chain” report.
• Implementing a Group-led, targeted supplier audit 
programme, to complement our existing third party 
led audits.
• Further enhancements to our due diligence process 
and procedures, including optimising the functionality 
of our due diligence platform.
• Publishing a Group Code of Conduct for employees 
and suppliers.  
 
• Benchmarking available tools, to facilitate the 
mapping of more challenging supply chains (involving 
multiple components from industries and countries 
where there is an increased risk of modern slavery).
• Strengthening our eLearning offering to teams at 
higher risk of encountering modern slavery.
• Integrating Drax Generation Enterprise Limited 
(following our acquisition of ScottishPower assets 
on 31 December 2018) into our modern slavery 
programme.
KPIs and looking ahead
“We are committed to continual improvement and aim to strengthen our 
compliance programme year on year”
2018 KPI
Progress
Employee training levels
Building on our 2016/2017 programme for teams at higher risk, in 2018 all 
employees, temporary employees and office-based contractors received training. 
Over 3,000 trained to date.
Identify and use opportunities 
for collaboration to verify and 
resolve risk issues
Participation in the UN Global Compact secured in January 2018, including 
membership of their Modern Slavery working group. Also engaged with: The 
Supply Chain Sustainability School, Front Group (including other conference 
participants), International Maritime Organisation and others.
Steps taken to upskill our 
high-risk suppliers 
Our Sustainability team have continued their programme to promote modern 
slavery awareness when conducting biomass supplier site visits.
Actions taken to strengthen 
our supply chain auditing and 
verification
Continuation of relationships with SBP and Bettercoal, including review of 
their audit materials. New due diligence platform and procedure implemented 
across the Group. A Group led, targeted supplier audit programme scheduled to 
commence in Q1 2019.
Investigations undertaken 
into reports of modern slavery 
and remedial actions taken
Escalation protocol (based on Home Office guidance) approved by the EBCC. One 
potential media monitoring alert followed up and adjudicated.
Maintain up to date due 
diligence information on 
supply chains that are high 
risk for modern slavery
Refresher due diligence questionnaires issued and chased as necessary.
Modern Slavery Statement 2018
We consider that the measures being taken, in conjunction with our overall commitment to doing the right thing, 
demonstrates an effective approach to identifying and addressing modern slavery that could be connected to our 
business and our supply chain.
This statement has been approved by the Drax board of directors and is made according to the requirements of 
section 54, part 6 of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 for the year ended 31 December 2018. 
This statement applies to all companies within the Drax Group that are required to have a Modern Slavery 
Statement including:
• Drax Power Limited
• Haven Power Limited
• Opus Energy Limited
• Opus Energy (Corporate) Limited
• Opus Energy Renewables Limited
• Opus Gas Supply Limited
•  Drax Smart Sourcing Holdco Ltd
•  Drax Smart Supply Holdco Ltd
•  Drax Corporate Ltd
•  Drax Group Holdings Ltd
•  Opus Energy Group Ltd
Following the acquisition of assets on 31 December 2018, Drax Generation Enterprise Limited will be integrated into 
the Group’s modern slavery programme during 2019 and will be included in the 2019 statement. 
This statement was signed by:
Will Gardiner
Chief Executive Officer
Drax Group plc
18 March 2019
Statement approval
