 
Project 190247  27/10/2020 
 
 
 
 
VERIFICATION STATEMENT 
 
Assessment of the Drax Biomass Carbon Calculator V2.0 
 
Prepared for: 
DRAX CORPORATE LIMITED  
Drax Power Station,  
Selby, North Yorkshire YO8 8PH 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2/4 
Project 190247   
Drax biomass Carbon Calculator V2.0 
27/10/2020 
Objectives 
SGS Belgium has been assigned by Drax Power ltd to verify an updated version of the Drax Biomass 
Carbon Calculator developed by the association for the calculation of GHG emissions of a wood pellet 
supply chain. 
 
The verification has been performed in accordance with ISO 14064-3 (Specification with guidance for 
the validation and verification of greenhouse gas assertions). 
 
The updated version of the calculator assessed is: Biomass Carbon Calculator V2.0.xlsm (including 
attached user manual : Biomass Carbon Calculator User Guide V2.0.pdf) 
 
GHG assertion to be verified 
The assertion to verify is that the tool is conform to the verification criteria : 
- 
the calculation tool is free from material misstatement; 
- 
the calculation tool complies with annex VI of the Directive (EU) 2018/2001 of the European 
Parliament and of the council of 11 December 2018 on the promotion of the use of energy 
from renewable sources (RED recast) 
 
Roles and responsibilities 
Drax is responsible for the design and the maintenance of the Biomass Carbon Calculator. It is SGS’ 
responsibility to express an independent GHG verification opinion on the calculation tool with regards 
to the criteria listed above.  
 
Scope 
i) organizational boundaries: not applicable (All relevant emission sources involved in the supply chain 
are considered, regardless which companies are in charge) 
 
ii) physical infrastructure, activities, technologies and processes : 
forestry, wood harvesting, wood processing, milling, drying, pelletizing, wood pellet use for electricity 
and/or heat production, all transport steps of raw materials and pellets 
 
iii) GHG sources, sinks and/or reservoirs: 
- 
direct and indirect emissions associated with fossil fuel combustion for forestry / processing / 
handling of feedstock and product 
- 
indirect emissions associated with use of electricity for transport / processing / handling of 
feedstock and product 
- 
direct and indirect emissions associated with biomass combustion in processing units 
- 
indirect emissions associated with use of additives in processing (if applicable) 
- 
direct and indirect emissions associated with use of electricity and/or fossil fuels in relevant 
transport modes (road, rail, river, sea) 
- 
direct emissions at end use (combustion of biomass) 
 
NB :  
- 
emissions from carbon stocks release and land use change are assumed to be zero and 
sourced from sustainable forestry. 
- 
no carbon credit claimed for use of degraded land, carbon capture or electricity excess. 
- 
no allocation to co-product is applicable 
 
iv) types of GHGs: 
carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4) and nitrous oxide (N2O) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3/4 
Project 190247   
Drax biomass Carbon Calculator V2.0 
27/10/2020 
v) time period: 
The tool is not linked to any specific time period. It is intended to be used in conjunction with audit reports 
from SBP certification. Those reports normally cover a 12 months production period. 
 
Level of assurance and materiality 
The level of assurance for the verification process is reasonable. The level of materiality is 1%. 
 
Intended use 
The GHG tool is intended to be used to calculate GHG intensity of wood pellets (g CO2 / MJ pellets) in 
order to calculate GHG savings compared to the relevant fossil fuel comparator, while used for the 
production of electricity and/or heat. 
 
Overview of the work performed 
The verification work was performed as desktop review of the calculation tool. It included: 
- 
Development of verification approach (verification plan and sampling plan) 
o Identification of the most critical parameters in terms of risk of error and contribution to 
the final result 
o Sample parameters/formula verification accordingly. 
- 
Assessment of the GHG data and information including: 
o Analytical checks of formula using excel formula auditing tools 
o Tests of the tool using simple datasets and confirming validity of the output though 
comparison with results obtained by an independent calculation 
o Checking emission factors / calculation factors back to the source 
- 
Assessment against the criteria 
o Completeness of the GHG emission sources as per RED recast 
o Correct approach, scope and units as required for each component 
o Correct default value / calculation factors, where appropriate. 
 
 
Conclusion 
Based on the work performed, SGS concludes with reasonable assurance that the Drax Biomass Carbon 
Calculator tool V2.0 is free from material misstatement and complies in all material respects with the 
applicable requirements annex VI of the Directive (EU) 2018/2001. 
It is noted that emissions released from carbon stock in forests and from land use change (if any) are 
not covered by the calculation tool and assumed to be zero when wood pellets are sourced from 
sustainable forestry. 
 
 
 
François Ducarme 
Lead verifier 
Catherine Nève 
Technical reviewer 
 
 
SGS BELGIUM SA - Environment, Health and Safety 
 rue Phocas Lejeune 4 - 5032 ISNES – Belgium 
Phone: +32 81 715 162 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4/4 
Project 190247   
Drax biomass Carbon Calculator V2.0 
27/10/2020 
 
 
 
 
Disclaimer 
 
Unless otherwise agreed, all orders and documents are executed and issued in accordance with our General Conditions. Upon 
simple request the conditions will again be sent to you. Attention is drawn to the limitation of liability, indemnification and 
jurisdiction issues defined therein. 
Any holder of this document is advised that information contained hereon reflects SGS’ findings at the time of its intervention 
only and within the limits of client’s instructions, if any. SGS’ sole responsibility is to its client and this document does not 
exonerate parties to a transaction from exercising all their rights and obligations under the transaction documents. Any 
unauthorized alteration, forgery or falsification of the content or appearance of this document is unlawful and offenders may be 
prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law 
 
