Chapter 17
Cumulative Impacts
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 17: CUMULATIVE EFFECTS 
 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limtied 
 
AECOM 
17-1 
 
 
CONTENTS 
17. Cumulative Effects ............................................................................................. 2 
17.1 Introduction ............................................................................................... 2 
17.2 Summary of Relevant Legislation, Planning Policy and Guidance ............ 2 
17.3 Methods .................................................................................................... 5 
17.4 Consultation .............................................................................................. 5 
17.5 Intra-project Effects ................................................................................... 6 
17.6 Assessment of Potential Intra-project effects ............................................ 7 
17.7 Inter-project Effects ................................................................................... 7 
17.8 Summary ................................................................................................... 9 
17.9 References ................................................................................................ 9 
 
TABLES 
Table 17-1: Consultation summary for cumulative effects .......................................... 5 
Table 17-2: Intra-Project Cumulative Effects .............................................................. 7 
 
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 17: CUMULATIVE EFFECTS 
 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limtied 
 
AECOM 
17-2 
 
17. 
Cumulative Effects 
17.1 
Introduction 
17.1.1 This chapter provides a summary of the likely significant cumulative effects 
associated with the Project, both for intra-project (where a single receptor is 
affected by multiple aspects of a project, worsening the effect) and inter-project 
effects (where effects are exacerbated due to other reasonably foreseeable 
projects either in construction, consented or yet to be built).  
17.1.2 Chapter 4: Approach to Environmental Impact Assessment described the 
processed used to assess cumulative effects in this chapter. This chapter also 
provides the approach to the cumulative effects assessment, which has been 
included within Chapters 6-14 in the individual topic areas. A description of the 
Project is provided in Chapter 3: Project and Site Description,  
17.2 
Summary of Relevant Legislation, Planning Policy and Guidance 
17.2.1 Chapter 2: Regulatory and Policy Background outlines the legislation and 
planning policy associated with the project, and that relevant to cumulative 
assessment is detailed below. 
a) EIA Regulations 
17.2.2 The EIA Regulations require a description of the likely significant effects of the 
Project on the environment, which should cover cumulative effects (Schedule 4 
Section 5) The inter relationship of likely significant effects of the Project therefore 
needs to be assessed. Overarching National Policy Statement for Energy (EN-1).  
17.2.3 The Overarching National Policy Statement for Energy (NPS EN-1) (Ref 17.1) 
states the following in relation to requirements for the assessment of cumulative 
effects: 
Section 4.2.5 - ‘When considering cumulative effects, the Environmental Statement 
(ES) should provide information on how the effects of the applicant’s proposal 
would combine and interact with the effects of other developments (including 
projects for which consent has been sought or granted, as well as those already in 
existence).’   
17.2.4 Inter-relationships between effects are also referred to as follows: 
Section 4.2.6 - ‘The Infrastructure Planning Commission (IPC) (now the Planning 
Inspectorate 
(PINS)) 
should 
consider 
how 
the 
accumulation 
of, 
and 
interrelationship between, effects might affect the environment, economy or 
community as a whole, even though they may be acceptable when considered on 
an individual basis with mitigation measures in place.’ 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 17: CUMULATIVE EFFECTS 
 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limtied 
 
AECOM 
17-3 
 
17.2.5 In considering any proposed development, and in particular when weighing its 
adverse impacts against its benefits, the Secretary of State should take into 
account: 
17.2.6 Section 4.1.3: 'its potential adverse impacts, including any long-term and 
cumulative adverse impacts, as well as any measures to avoid, reduce or 
compensate for any adverse impacts' 
b) Guidance 
17.2.7 Guidance that is applicable to each specific topic assessment is identified in the 
relevant Chapters (Chapter 6 to 14 of this Preliminary Environmental Impact Report 
(PEIR)). 
17.2.8 PINS Advice Note Nine: Using the 'Rochdale Envelope' (Ref 17.2) states that: 
 
‘The inter-relationship between aspects of the proposed development should be 
assessed and careful consideration should be given by the developer to explain 
how inter-relationships have been assessed in order to address the environmental 
impacts of the proposal as a whole.’ 
17.2.9 Advice Note Nine provides a definition of cumulative effects which are described as 
considering ‘…other proposed development within the context of the site and any 
other reasonably foreseeable proposals in the vicinity 
17.2.10 Advice Note Nine also establishes that ‘other developments’ and more specifically 
‘major developments’ need to be identified to assess the probable significant 
effects against the baseline position. Built and operational developments are 
included in this baseline. The ‘major developments’ that should be considered 
within the cumulative assessment include those that are: 
 Under construction; 
 Permitted application(s), but not yet implemented; 
 Submitted applications(s) not yet determined; 
 Projects on the Planning Inspectorate’s Programme of Projects; 
 Identified in the relevant Development Plan; and 
 Identified in other plans and programmes (as appropriate) which set the 
framework 
for 
future 
development 
consents/approvals, 
where 
such 
development is reasonably likely to come forward. 
17.2.11 This list is also included in the document Planning Act 2008: Guidance on the Pre-
Application Process (Ref 17.3). This document acknowledges that it is not always 
easy for applicants to assess potential cumulative effects due to the lack of 
information available and that a pragmatic approach should therefore be taken 
when determining what is feasible and reasonable.   
17.2.12 PINS Advice Note Seventeen: Cumulative effects assessment (Ref. 17-4) provides 
advice on a ‘staged process that applicants may wish to adopt in cumulative effects 
assessment for NSIPs. The four assessment stages comprise: 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 17: CUMULATIVE EFFECTS 
 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limtied 
 
AECOM 
17-4 
 
1. 
Establish the NSIPs zone of influence and identify a ‘long list’ of other 
developments which could potentially have effect interactions with the NSIP. 
This long list is presented in Table 4-6 of Chapter 4: Approach to 
Environmental Impact Assessment; 
2. 
Develop a ‘short list’ of other developments which could potentially have 
effect interactions with the NSIP. Essentially analysing the ‘long list’ 
developed in stage 1 in more detail in order to include only those 
developments that have potential to give rise to significant cumulative effects 
by virtue of overlaps in temporal scope; due to the scale and nature of the 
‘other development’/receiving environment; or any other relevant Factors. 
The projects for inclusion in each technical assessment (the ‘short list’) have 
been noted where applicable in the cumulative effects section of Chapters 6-
14; 
3. 
Gather available information on the shortlisted developments; and  
4. 
Assessment of likely significant impacts arising as a result of the NSIP 
cumulatively with the short listed developments identified during stage 2 and 
available information gathered in stage 3. 
17.2.13 Table 3 of Advice Note Seventeen describes potential schemes for cumulative 
assessment in three tiers and recognises that for each tier, there is a decreasing 
level of detail likely to be available. The three tiers are: 
 
Tier 1 – Projects under construction 
 
 Permitted application(s), whether under the PA 2008 or other regimes, but not 
yet implemented; and 
 Submitted application(s) whether under the PA 2008 or other regimes but not 
yet determined; 
 
Tier 2 
 
 Projects on the Planning Inspectorate’s Programme of Projects where a 
scoping report has been submitted. 
 
Tier 3 
 
 Projects on the Planning Inspectorate’s Programme of Projects where a 
scoping report has not been submitted; 
 Identified in the relevant Development Plan (and emerging Development Plans 
with appropriate weight being given as they move closer to adoption) 
recognising that much information on any relevant proposals would be limited; 
and 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 17: CUMULATIVE EFFECTS 
 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limtied 
 
AECOM 
17-5 
 
 Identified in other plans and programmes (as appropriate) which set the 
framework 
for 
future 
development 
consents/approvals, 
where 
such 
development is reasonably likely to come forward. 
17.3 
Methods 
17.3.1 The methodology for cumulative assessment is outlined in Chapter 4: Approach 
to Environmental Impact Assessment, and summarised below. 
17.3.2 The cumulative effects assessment for the Project follows the guidelines as set by 
the Institute of Environmental Management and Assessment (IEMA) and advice 
from PINS.  
17.3.3 IEMA’s guidelines recognise two major sources of cumulative effects: 
 Intra-project effects – These occur where a single receptor is affected by 
more than one source of effect arising from different aspects of the Project. An 
example of an intra-project effect would be where a local resident is affected by 
dust, noise and traffic disruption during the construction of a scheme, with the 
result being a greater nuisance than each individual effect alone; and 
 Inter-project effects – These effects occur as a result of a number of past, 
present or reasonably foreseeable proposed developments, which individually 
might not be significant, but when considered together could create a 
significant cumulative effect on a shared receptor, and could include 
developments separate from and related to the Project. 
17.4 
Consultation 
17.4.1 Consultation regarding cumulative development undertaken in relation to the 
Project is listed in Table 17-1 below. 
17.4.2 Through the Scoping Report and ongoing consultation with CCS, a long list was 
agreed for this PEIR, as presented in Table 4-6.  
Table 17-1: Consultation summary for cumulative effects 
Organisation 
Comment 
Response 
SoS 
(Scoping 
Opinion,paras.3.69-
3.70) 
The SoS recommends that the 
Applicant consider the inclusion of 
the following developments identified
by CCS: Mynydd y Gwair Wind 
Farm; 
Felindre 
Business 
Park;
,Brynwhilach 
Solar 
Park; 
and 
proposed sustainable urban village 
at Felindre 
These proposals have been 
considered 
in 
relevant 
cumulative assessments and 
where still current are listed in 
Chapter 
4: 
Approach 
to 
Environmental 
Impact 
Assessment of the PEIR. This 
is described in section 17.6 in 
further detail.  
CCS (email dated 
23/10/17) 
Email response from CCS giving 
agreement 
on 
an 
updated 
cumulative scheme list (from 2014 to 
The cumulative scheme list has 
been 
updated 
to 
include 
additional schemes, as listed in 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 17: CUMULATIVE EFFECTS 
 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limtied 
 
AECOM 
17-6 
 
Organisation 
Comment 
Response 
October 2017) and details of the 
inclusion of additional schemes to 
consider. 
Table 
4-6 
in 
Chapter 
4: 
Approach to Environmental 
Impact Assessment. 
17.5 
Intra-project Effects 
17.5.1 For the purpose of this chapter, consideration will be given to the additive or 
amplified effects resulting from environmental effects on ‘shared receptors’ and also 
where sources of effect from different components of the Project may combine to 
be of greater significance than when considered alone. Each of the topic specific 
chapters from Chapter 6 – 14 has outlined the cumulative effects from that specific 
individual topic including the mitigation required. These measures will be 
incorporated in the Outline CEMP in Appendix 3.1 where appropriate or via specific 
DCO Requirements to be agreed.  
17.5.2 As outlined in Chapters 6-14, there are unlikely to be any intra-project effects from 
the operation and decommissioning phases of the Project and so these are not 
considered further. 
a) Shared Receptors  
17.5.3 Shared receptors from individual elements of the Project (e.g. construction of 
Power Generation Plant, Gas Connection and Electrical Connection) are likely to 
be limited to nearby residential dwellings.  
17.5.4 Potential effects at these shared receptors may comprise of the following: 
 Noise effects;  
 Views from residential dwellings; 
 Potential effects on waterbodies and water based receptors from increased risk 
of sediment runoff and polluted discharges during the construction phase; 
 Traffic effects from increased vehicle numbers during the construction phase; 
and 
 Production of dust during the construction phase. 
17.5.5 Due to the application of embedded and additional mitigation measures (such as 
the avoidance of habitats, the CEMP and topic specific management plans) which 
ensure that likely significant effects on shared receptors are unlikely, or the 
absence of any effects on shared receptors, the following topics are scoped out 
from the intra-cumulative assessment:  
 Ecology - due to the embedded and additional mitigation, there is unlikely to be 
any cumulative effects from multiple components of the Project working 
simultaneously affecting several species. In addition, the total permanent 
habitat loss will be mitigated by the creation of the Ecological Mitigation Area 
and / or enhancements via the Landscaping and Reinstatement Plan; 
 Socio-economic; 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 17: CUMULATIVE EFFECTS 
 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limtied 
 
AECOM 
17-7 
 
 Historic Environment; and 
 Geology, Ground Conditions and Hydrogeology.  
b) Assessment of Potential Intra-project effects 
17.5.6 Table 17-2 outlines the potential intra-project cumulative effects from the Project. 
As previously described in Chapters 6-14, it is considered unlikely that there will be 
any intra-project effects during operation or decommissioning, and so the 
assessment only considers construction stage effects. 
Table 17-2: Intra-Project Cumulative Effects 
Receptor with 
potential for 
multiple effects 
Potential 
Intra-
Project 
Effects 
Comments 
Residential  
Dust, Noise, 
Traffic, 
Landscape   
Construction of the whole Project will result in 
construction activity not previously present and additional 
vehicles along access routes. This creates an increase in 
traffic flows for all Project components, disruption of 
views and potential production of noise, dust and air 
pollutants from the Project as a whole during the 
construction period.  
This may have an effect on local communities and 
nearby 
residential 
dwellings. 
As 
embedded 
and 
additional mitigation is proposed within the individual 
topic chapters (such as a CTMP and CEMP), this will 
result in a Minor adverse in-combination effect, which is 
not significant 
17.6 
Inter-project Effects 
17.6.1 A review of the planning applications and proposed developments within a 5 km 
study area around the Project was undertaken to scope any other projects that 
were considered to constitute ‘major development’ schemes. A further review was 
undertaken to determine which developments had the potential to result in likely 
significant cumulative effects with the Project within each individual technical 
chapter.   
17.6.2 Further to the SoS comments received within the Scoping Opinion, the projects 
listed in Table 17-1 have been reviewed and are included within those listed in 
Table 4-6.  
17.6.3 Further to liaison with CCS, a “long list” of consented, in construction, or consented 
but not yet implemented developments, in addition to those allocated within the 
Local Development Plan (LDP), was agreed. The “long list” was then reviewed and 
refined, resulting in the following developments being identified as having likely 
cumulative effects. There are no other major developments, Tier 1, Tier 2 or Tier 3 
developments or applications present within the 5 km study area.    
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 17: CUMULATIVE EFFECTS 
 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limtied 
 
AECOM 
17-8 
 
17.6.4 The Mynydd Y Gwair windfarm (planning reference 2012/1221) is currently in 
construction and will be operational prior to the commencement of this Project. 
Therefore the potential cumulative effects are restricted to landscape and visual 
during operation. Construction traffic from the Project will not have any cumulative 
effects with operational traffic from the windfarm. It is considered that there will be 
no cumulative effects with the Mynydd y Gwair windfarm due to the intervening 
topography ensuring that there is no cumulative visual impact (as shown on the 
ZTV in Figure 11-8).  
17.6.5 Proposed sustainable urban village at Felindre and other allocated sites have been 
scoped out of the cumulative assessment as there are very limited details about the 
scale and nature of the proposed developments in which to form a robust basis for 
assessment.  
17.6.6 The Brynwhilach Solar Park (2014/1022) is also under construction and will be 
installed and operational during the determination period of this Project. The 
potential cumulative effects are limited to landscape during the operation of both 
this Solar Park and the Project, and this is discussed within paragraphs 11.10.22 to 
11.10.32 of Chapter 11: Landscape & Visual.  
17.6.7 The Felindre Business Park is currently under construction (planning reference 
2006/0773) with a second application (planning reference 2013/1835) approved but 
not yet implemented for the car park and share facility. The potential cumulative 
effects to relates principally to traffic and transport on the B4489 during the 
operation phase of the Business Park and construction traffic for the Project, and 
landscape and visual, however there are no shared receptors. The cumulative 
effects related specifically to landscape and visual and traffic and transport are 
discussed within Chapter 11: Landscape & Visual and Chapter 12: Traffic, 
Transport & Access.  
17.6.8 To summarise, the Landscape Character around the Project Site and visual 
amenity viewpoints 9 and 15 are expected to experience cumulative effects with the 
Felindre Business Park during the construction phase of the Project due to views 
contained construction equipment, lighting and construction activities. This is 
expected to result in Minor adverse effects, which is not significant. During 
operation, both developments would experience cumulative effects due to changes 
in landscape character, landform and presence. However these are also 
considered to be Minor adverse, and therefore not significant. 
17.6.9 As the construction traffic cumulative assessment assumes all developments, the 
residual cumulative effect for pedestrian experience will be Minor to Moderate 
adverse. There will also be a moderate adverse effect on driver delay on the 
B4489 (North) and a major adverse effect on the B4489 (South). Whilst these 
effects are significant, no mitigation is considered to be required due to the 
temporary effect during construction. 
17.6.10 As detailed within the cumulative assessment of Chapters 6 to14, no other projects 
were considered to have potential to cause cumulative effects with the Project 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 17: CUMULATIVE EFFECTS 
 
 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limtied 
 
AECOM 
17-9 
 
either in terms of shared receptors, shared access routes or simultaneous 
construction or operational phases. Therefore, it is unlikely that there will be any 
inter-project effects from other Projects in Table 4-6 and so effects are considered 
to be not significant. 
17.7 
Summary  
17.7.1 The assessment of intra-effects of the Project on shared receptors has concluded 
that the effects are Minor adverse, and therefore are not significant.   
17.7.2 The assessment of inter-project effects have been described, summarised and 
assessed in this chapter. It is concluded that the cumulative effects on shared 
receptors from individual topics and also cumulatively with the Project and other 
proposed developments are mostly Minor adverse effects, with the exception of 
cumulative effects relating to pedestrian experience and driver delay as these are 
considered to be Moderate adverse, which is significant. However as these 
effects are temporary during construction, no further mitigation is required, and they 
do not add to the overall significance of the effects of the Project.  
17.8 
References 
Ref. 17.1 
Department of Energy and Climate Change. (2011). Overarching National 
Policy Statement for Energy (EN-1).[Online]. 
Available: 
https://www.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/
47854/1938-overarching-nps-for-energy-en1.pdf  
[Accessed: 26/10/17]. 
Ref. 17.2 
 The Planning Inspectorate. (2012). Advice Note Nine: Rochdale Envelope. 
Version 2. [Online].  
Available: https://infrastructure.planninginspectorate.gov.uk/wp-
content/uploads/2013/05/Advice-note-9.-Rochdale-envelope-web.pdf 
[Accessed: 30/10/17]. 
Ref. 17.3 
Department for Communities and Local Government. (2015). Planning Act 
2008: Guidance on the Pre-Application Process. [Online]. 
Available: 
https://www.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/
418009/150326_Pre-Application_Guidance.pdf 
[Accessed: 31/10/17].  
Ref. 17.4 
The Planning Inspectorate (2015). Advice Note Seventeen: Cumulative 
Effects Assessment [Online].  
Available: https://infrastructure.planninginspectorate.gov.uk/legislation-and-
advice/advice-notes/ 
[Accessed: 19/12/17]. 
