An insights report from the 
Energy Technologies Institute
The evidence for 
deploying Bioenergy 
wiTh ccS (BeccS) in The UK
www.eti.co.uk
Energy Technologies Institute
02
03
02    03  Energy Technologies Institute
Contents
04 Executive summary
06 Background – why BECCS?
08 Critical knowledge gaps
10 Context
12  Answering the four critical 
questions – Insights gained 
through the ETI’s Bioenergy  
and CCS Programmes
25  Conclusions – completing  
the BECCS picture
26  Next steps
27  About the authors
THE EVIDENCE FOR DEPLOYING 
BIOENERGY WITH CCS (BECCS) 
IN THE UK
A SYSTEMS OVERVIEW
Bioenergy with CCS (BECCS) can deliver negative 
emissions (the net removal of CO2 from the 
atmosphere) whilst also producing energy in 
the form of   
By 2050 BECCS could deliver 
of net negative emissions per annum
tonnes
roughly half the UK 
emissions target in 
2050
c55m
identiﬁed pathways 
to sustainable 
feedstock supply in 
the UK
proved the ability 
to deliver genuine 
carbon savings 
demonstrated no 
signiﬁcant 
technical barriers 
to deployment 
identiﬁed key CO2 
stores and progressed 
technology to verify 
store integrity 
Signiﬁcant knowledge gaps addressed by the ETI and others over the last 10 years have... 
The UK is well-placed to 
exploit the beneﬁts of 
BECCS 
it has vast storage 
opportunities offshore, 
and strong academic & 
industrial experience in 
both bioenergy & CCS
The next steps are to 
demonstrate the 
components of BECCS
UK government support 
for BECCS is vital
proving the technology, 
feedstock supply & 
logistics, and overall 
commercial viability
BECCS should be an integral 
part of UK CCS and 
decarbonisation strategies 
electricity 
 liquid fuels 
heat
gaseous fuels 
www.eti.co.uk
Energy Technologies Institute
04
05
EXECUTIVE sUmmary
  Bioenergy with CCS (BECCS) is a credible, 
scalable and efficient technology, and is 
critical to deploy in order for the UK to meet 
its 2050 GHG emission reduction targets cost-
effectively.
  Major advances in the fundamental science 
and technology development have been made 
by the ETI and others over the last ten 
years – significantly de-risking this value chain, 
and evidencing that there are no ‘show-
stopping’ technical barriers to BECCS.
  Specifically, advances have been made in 
understanding:
 
  The costs, efficiencies and challenges of 
biomass-fed combustion systems with 
carbon capture.
 
  The evidence that numerous bioenergy 
value chains can deliver significant carbon 
savings, and sizeable negative emissions 
when including BECCS, based on certain 
feedstocks.
 
  The potential availability and sustainability 
of feedstocks relevant to the UK.
 
  The identification and assessment of high 
capacity, low cost, low-risk stores for CO2 
around the UK and the infrastructure 
required to connect to them.
  Analysis shows that the UK is exceptionally 
well-placed to exploit the benefits of BECCS, 
given the vast storage opportunities offshore 
around the UK; our experience in bioenergy 
deployments; and our academic and industrial 
research and development strength across 
bioenergy and CCS.
  A consistent biomass feedstock planting rate 
of 30,000 hectares per annum, combined  
with moderate imports, is sufficient to  
keep the UK on the required trajectory for 
meeting the 2050s bioenergy and negative  
emissions targets.
  Given these advances in understanding and 
de-risking – BECCS should now be an integral 
part of the UK’s future CCS strategy.
  BECCS deployment is achievable by 2030, 
since all major components of a BECCS system 
have now been demonstrated or ‘proven’ 
individually – significantly de-risking the  
full-system deployment.
  In addition to the ETI work, great progress 
is being made in the UK and internationally, 
on the operational and handling aspects 
of biomass combustion, co-firing and CCS, 
through ‘learning by doing’ in pilot research 
trials and full-scale plant demonstrations, e.g. 
Drax’s coal unit conversions to biomass in the 
UK, and the Boundary Dam commercial-scale 
coal power CCS project in Canada.
  Significant support is needed over the next 
5-10 years to demonstrate a commercial 
deployment of BECCS technology and the 
wider biomass and CO2 storage supply chain  
in the UK.
www.eti.co.uk
Energy Technologies Institute
06
07
BaCkgroUnd – why BECCs?
To tackle the causes of climate change, the Uk has committed to an 80% 
reduction in its greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions by 2050, compared to 
1990 levels. meeting these targets will require a massive transformation in 
the way energy is generated and used in the Uk.
  Lord Oxburgh’s report on the critical role 
of CCS5. This report re-emphasises that 
BECCS plays a very significant role in both 
2˚C and 1.5˚C modelling scenarios for global 
warming which are consistent with the Paris 
Agreement (agreed at COP21). It also echoes 
the ETI’s views that: i) CCS technology is 
ready for deployment without any more 
fundamental research and that it can be 
competitive already against other forms of 
clean technology; and ii) that the capacity to 
deliver negative emissions has the potential 
to reduce the overall cost of decarbonisation 
by compensating for emissions from some 
hard-to-mitigate sectors, and adds flexibility 
into any decarbonisation plan. The report also 
notes that while there are a number of other 
potential negative emissions technologies 
(NETs), including NET fuel cells and direct 
air capture, none can be deployed cost-
effectively at scale today in the same way 
BECCS could be. Some may develop in the 
future, but they would require an established 
CCS infrastructure to already be in place, and 
therefore BECCS is a natural technology to 
progress first.
  Committee on Climate Change (CCC) ‘UK 
Climate action following the Paris Agreement’ 
report6. This report (and it’s two sister 
reports7), make it very clear that sustainable 
bioenergy and BECCS both play a critical role 
in enabling the UK to meet its 2050 GHG 
emission reduction commitments, and an 
even more central role in realising the net 
zero emission ambitions arising from the Paris 
Agreement. Specifically, it echoes ETI’s views 
that: i) BECCS could be cost competitive by the 
2030s, but requires urgent UK Government 
support; ii) the BECCS supply chain would 
need to draw on both domestically-produced 
and imported feedstocks; iii) CCC suggest a 
similar domestic planting rate of 30,000 ha/
yr to the ETI8; and iv) they highlight the future 
importance of hydrogen and CCS – initially for 
heat via injection in to the gas grid (ETI has 
also explored the potential of utilising the UK’s 
significant salt caverns for hydrogen storage9, 
ultimately providing base- and peak-load 
electricity generation via hydrogen turbines). 
The International Energy Agency Clean Coal 
Centre (IEACCC), whilst not focusing on BECCS 
specifically, list in their 5th ‘Co-firing Biomass 
with Coal’ conference papers10, several 
demonstrations and trials by major producers, 
e.g. E.ON, Dong, Drax, GDF Suez, and scientific 
institutions working on the practical issues some 
biomass and waste fuels pose, including aspects 
of fouling, corrosion and downstream catalyst 
deactivation. This demonstrates the current 
commercial interest in developing biomass 
conversion technologies, which is a vital part 
of BECCS.
Bioenergy technologies when combined with 
Carbon Capture and Storage (BECCS) can deliver 
negative emissions (net removal of CO2 from 
the atmosphere) whilst producing energy in the 
form of electricity, heat, gaseous and liquid fuels. 
Negative emissions provide important emissions 
‘headroom’ as the UK transitions towards a 
low-carbon energy system, since the additional 
‘breathing space’ afforded by negative emissions 
reduces the need for rapid emissions reductions 
in sectors such as heavy duty transport and 
aviation which are more difficult and expensive 
to decarbonise. Evidence from ESME, the 
ETI’s peer-reviewed energy system modelling 
environment, suggests that by the 2050s, BECCS 
could deliver c.-55 million tonnes of net negative 
emissions per annum (approximately half our 
emissions target in 2050), whilst meeting c.10% 
of the UK’s future energy demand. This would 
reduce the cost of meeting the UK’s 2050 GHG 
emissions target by up to 1% of GDP. 
In addition to ETI analysis, several other high 
profile organisations have highlighted the 
importance of BECCS in helping to tackle global 
climate change, including: 
  The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate 
Change (IPCC). In their Fifth Assessment 
Report1 on mitigating future climate change, 
over 100 of the 116 scenarios associated with 
CO2 concentrations between 430-480ppm in 
2100 (the level that is likely to limit average 
temperature rises to 2˚C) depend on BECCS to 
deliver global net negative emissions. The IPCC 
found that many climate models could not 
limit global warming to below 2°C if the use of 
bioenergy, CCS and their combination (BECCS) 
had limited deployment.
  The Low Carbon Innovation Coordination 
Group (LCICG). The 2012 Bio-TINA (Technology 
Innovation Needs Assessment)2 stated that, 
deployed properly, bioenergy and BECCS, has 
the potential to help secure energy supplies 
mitigate climate change, and create significant 
green growth opportunities. 
  The Committee on Climate Change (CCC).  
In their report on setting the 5th Carbon 
Budget3, 4, the CCC recommended that 
bioenergy should be used with CCS, and 
where alternative low-carbon options were 
not feasible or cost-effective. 
1    IPCC (2014): Climate Change 2014: Mitigation of Climate Change. Available from: http://ipcc.ch/report/ar5/wg3/  
2 
 LCICG (2012): Technology Innovation Needs Assessment (TINA). Bioenergy Summary Report. Available from: http://www.lowcarboninnovation.co.uk/
working_together/technology_focus_areas/bioenergy/ 
3 
 CCC (2015): The Fifth Carbon Budget: The next step towards a low carbon economy. Available from: https://www.theccc.org.uk/publication/the-fifth-
carbon-budget-the-next-step-towards-a-low-carbon-economy/ 
4 
 The Government accepted the CCC’s recommendations and set the fifth carbon budget at 1,725 Mt CO2e for the period 2028-2032 in the Carbon 
Budget Order 2016. Available from: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2016/785/made 
5 
 Oxburgh (2016): lowest cost decarbonisation for the uk: the critical role of CCS. Report to the Secretary of State for Business, Energy and Industrial 
Strategy from the Parliamentary Advisory Group on Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS). Available from: http://www.ccsassociation.org/news-and-events/
reports-and-publications/parliamentary-advisory-group-on-ccs-report/
6 
 CCC (October 2016) Reports: https://www.theccc.org.uk/wp-content/uploads/2016/10/UK-climate-action-following-the-Paris-Agreement-Committee-on-
Climate-Change-October-2016.pdf
7 
 ‘Next steps for UK heat policy’ and ‘Meeting Carbon Budgets – Implications of Brexit for UK climate policy’ reports: https://www.theccc.org.
uk/2016/10/13/concrete-action-needed-to-meet-uk-climate-commitments-following-paris-agreement-and-brexit-vote/
8 
 ETI (2016) Delivering GHG emission savings through UK bioenergy value chains. Available at: http://www.eti.co.uk/insights/delivering-greenhouse-gas-
emission-savings-through-uk-bioenergy-value-chains
9 
 ETI (2015) The role of hydrogen storage in a clean responsive power system. Available at: http://www.eti.co.uk/insights/carbon-capture-and-storage-
the-role-of-hydrogen-storage-in-a-clean-responsive-power-system
10  IEA Clean Coal Centre, 5th Co-firing Biomass with Coal conference (16-17th September 2015), conference papers available from: http://cofiring5.
coalconferences.org/ibis/cofiring5/home
www.eti.co.uk
Energy Technologies Institute
08
09
CrITICal knowlEdgE gaps
The ETI was established in 2007, and at that 
time, there were considerable uncertainties 
and knowledge gaps around BECCS, as well as 
many individual elements of bioenergy and CCS 
development themselves. The ETI established 
CCS and Bioenergy programmes (with spends of 
£32m and £20m respectively) to address these 
knowledge gaps, in order to better assess and 
understand the potential for, and suitability of, 
BECCS deployment in the UK. 
Specifically, ETI identified a series of questions 
that encapsulated uncertainties surrounding the 
use and commercial deployment of bioenergy 
and CCS in the UK. By seeking to answer them, 
ETI has identified and progressed the priority 
activities needed to quantify and reduce these 
uncertainties. 
Collective project insights gained through our 
Bioenergy and CCS programmes, and informed 
by the work of others, has enabled us to 
address four key questions in relation to BECCS 
deployment in the UK:
 1.  Can a sufficient level of BECCs be 
deployed in the Uk to support  
cost-effective decarbonisation  
pathways for the Uk out to 2050?
 2.  what are the right combinations of 
feedstock, pre-processing, conversion 
and carbon capture technologies to 
deploy for bioenergy production in 
the Uk?
 3.  how can we deliver the greatest 
emissions savings from bioenergy and 
BECCs in the Uk?
 4.  how much Co2 could be stored from 
Uk sources and how do we monitor 
these stores efficiently and safely?
1)  Highlight the progress that has been made in understanding the 
key uncertainties associated with BECCS through ETI’s projects, 
which have been delivered in partnership with our industrial, 
academic and research partners over the last ten years, and 
outline the insights gained
2)  Demonstrate the potential for UK deployment and the system 
value in supporting BECCS now in order to meet our GHG targets 
cost-effectively. 
A more detailed description of project activities and insights can 
be found in the individual project insight publications referenced 
throughout this document.
 
 
The intention of this paper is to:
www.eti.co.uk
Energy Technologies Institute
10
11
ConTEXT
Bioenergy 
Bioenergy is the largest source of renewable 
energy in the UK. In 2015, Bioenergy contributed 
73% of all renewable energy inputs (151 TWh/yr) 
and 59% of final renewable energy consumption. 
This met 5% of all UK final energy demand today, 
of which 38% was electricity, 14% transport fuels, 
and 48% was heat11. 
The majority of biomass and waste feedstocks are 
sourced in the UK, but imports of biomass and 
biofuels have increased in recent years to meet 
demand, see Figure 1 below.
Most UK bioenergy plants to date either provide 
power or heat. By the end of July 2016, there 
was 5.2 GW of bio-power capacity in the UK, and 
3.1 GW of heat; plus 226 MW of biogas capacity 
supported under the RHI12. 
11  BEIS (2016): Digest of UK Energy Statistics (DUKES). Available from: https://www.gov.uk/government/collections/digest-of-uk-energy-statistics-dukes
12 BEIS (2016), July 2016 RHI Deployment Data Available from: https://www.gov.uk/government/statistics/rhi-deployment-data-july-2016
13 BEIS (2016): Digest of UK Energy Statistics (DUKES). Available from: https://www.gov.uk/government/collections/digest-of-uk-energy-statistics-dukes
14  Toshiba (2016): Toshiba and Mizuho Information & Research Institute to Lead Japan’s Largest CCS Project. Press release available from: 
https://www.toshiba.co.jp/about/press/2016_07/pr2601.htm 
Figure 1 
2015 biomass and waste feedstock sources13
Bioenergy with CCs 
Both biomass combustion and biomass 
gasification lend themselves to CCS through 
proven CO2 capture technologies (on coal and oil 
residues). The scale of biomass in the UK today, 
and in particular its use in a large unit like Drax, 
produces CO2 in sufficient quantities to deliver 
economies of scale in the capture of CO2. On a 
smaller, but still important scale, the UK has the 
opportunity to fit CCS to existing bioethanol 
plants, as has been demonstrated in the USA. 
Although the UK has no large CCS projects,  
large scale underground storage in North Sea 
aquifers has been practised in Norway since 1996, 
and by 2017, 22 plants globally will be running 
CCS technology applications, spanning post-
combustion and pre-combustion coal, natural gas 
steam reforming, bioenergy (corn to ethanol), and 
applications from power, gas production, refining, 
chemicals and steel. Indeed TOKYO-Toshiba 
Corporation has recently been selected by Japan’s 
Ministry of the Environment to construct a carbon 
capture facility to capture over 500 tonnes of CO2 
a day from the Mikawa Power Plant (49MW)14.  
The plant aims to be operational by 2020, and it 
will become the world’s first power plant capable 
of capturing carbon from a biomass power plant, 
and therefore the first to deliver  
‘negative emissions’. 
Source: DUKES (2016), Table 6.1 Renewables and Waste Commodity Balances 2015 / Summarised by Energy Technologies Institute LLP
Waste
(household, 
industrial 
and clinical) 
Liquid biofuels
Wood waste 
Poultry litter, bone 
and farm waste
Plant based 
biomass 
(wood, straw 
and energy crops)
Sewage gas 
Landﬁll gas 
Source: DUKES (2016), Table 6.1 Renewables and Waste Commodity Balances 2015 / Summarised by Energy Technologies Institute LLP
3.8
Domestic
Feedstock sources 
for bioenergy in 
the UK 2015 
Figures represent 
total supply used for 
energy in TWh 
40.2
Domestic
Domestic
9.7
Domestic
18.7
Domestic
26.1
9.2
Domestic
Domestic
4.2
Net 
Import
31.4
Net 
Import 
7.9
www.eti.co.uk
Energy Technologies Institute
12
13
The ETI’s ESME modelling consistently selects 
decarbonisation pathways for the UK that 
generate approximately 130TWh/yr of 
bioenergy (~10% final energy demand) in 
2050, and  deliver more than 50 million tonnes 
of ‘negative emissions’ a year through the 
combined deployment of bioenergy and CCS. 
Using our more detailed ‘Bioenergy Value Chain 
Model’ (BVCM) to understand future bioenergy 
sector development scenarios, we know that 
this 130TWh/yr final energy output requires 
approximately 190TWh/yr of biomass feedstock  
(a combination of imported and domestically 
grown feedstocks), and ~45TWh/yr of waste 
feedstocks15. The table below sets out our 
estimates for how much additional feedstock  
is required to meet these 2050 pathways. 
Our analysis indicates that the additional domestic 
biomass feedstock production needs could be 
met by converting 1.4million hectares of UK 
agricultural land to bioenergy crops and forestry 
by the 2050s. ETI has taken a conservative 
approach to assessing the amount of land that 
could potentially be available to produce domestic 
biomass feedstocks – limiting the amount, type 
and location of land to be converted based on 
a series of assumptions set out in earlier insight 
reports19.
Work completed for us by ADAS suggests that 
with small changes to farming practices and food 
waste, there could be sufficient spare land in the 
UK agricultural system to meet this requirement 
of 1.4 million hectares of land without impacting 
existing levels of UK food security (see Figure 2 
below). This could be targeted for conversion 
to biomass production. A consistent biomass 
feedstock planting rate of 30,000 hectares 
per annum, combined with moderate imports, 
is sufficient to keep the UK on the required 
trajectory for meeting the 2050s bioenergy and 
negative emissions targets outlined at the start of 
this section.
Developing an appropriate policy and regulatory 
framework for targeting this spare land presents 
an opportunity to optimise the efficiency, 
economic and environmental performance of  
the UK agricultural sector as a whole – something 
which is likely to be even more important in the 
context of the UK’s development of a framework 
to leave the EU and the expected loss of the 
Common Agricultural Policy support mechanism. 
Targeting marginal arable land and appropriate 
grassland would minimise food production 
impacts and associated indirect Land Use Change 
(iLUC) emissions, and has been shown to be 
profitable at the farm level (Refining Estimates of 
Land for Biomass (RELB) project)20.
answErIng ThE FoUr CrITICal qUEsTIons – 
InsIghTs gaInEd ThroUgh ThE ETI’s 
BIoEnErgy and CCs programmEs
15  These figures exclude imported biofuels, since they are ‘ready-to-use’ and not actually converted to a final vector within the UK. The UK currently 
imports ~678 ktoe (7.88 Twh/yr). Source: BEIS (2016): Digest of UK Energy Statistics (DUKES). Available from: https://www.gov.uk/government/
collections/digest-of-uk-energy-statistics-dukes
16  This excludes landfill gas and sewage gas, which has a current input value of 23 TWh/yr, producing energy largely via engines or anaerobic digestion
17  Source: BEIS (2016): Digest of UK Energy Statistics (DUKES). Available from: 
https://www.gov.uk/government/collections/digest-of-uk-energy-statistics-dukes
18 HMG (2012) UK Bioenergy Strategy. Available from: https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/uk-bioenergy-strategy
19  ETI (2015), Insights into the future UK Bioenergy Sector, gained using the ETI’s Bioenergy Value Chain Model (BVCM). Available from: 
http://www.eti.co.uk/bioenergy-insights-into-the-future-uk-bioenergy-sector-gained-using-the-etis-bioenergy-value-chain-model-bvcm/ 
20  ETI (2016) Bioenergy crops in the UK: Case studies of successful whole farm integration.  
Available from: http://www.eti.co.uk/library/bioenergy-crops-in-the-uk-case-studies-on-successful-whole-farm-integration-evidence-pack.  
The RELB Land Availability report will be published in 2017.
1. Can a sufficient level of BECCs be deployed in the Uk to support 
cost-effective decarbonisation pathways for the Uk out to 2050?
A. Amount 
of feedstock 
currently 
being used for 
bioenergy
B. 2050s 
requirement
C. Additional 
needs from 
2015 level of 
use to be met 
over next 35 
years (C = B - A)
D. ETI  
estimates of 
additional 
feedstock 
potentially 
available in 
2050
ETI assessment 
of whether 
the 2050s 
requirement  
can be met  
(is B < A + D?)
UK residual 
waste arisings
22 TWh/yr16
45 TWh/yr
23 TWh/yr
29 TWh/yr 
(~8mT p.a.)
YES
Domestically-
grown biomass
40 TWh/yr17
(plus ~4 TWh/yr 
being used to 
produce liquid 
biofuels)
75-115 TWh/yr
35-75 TWh/yr
YES
Imported 
biomass 
feedstocks
31 TWh/yr
75-115 TWh/yr
44-84 TWh/yr
69-319 
TWh/yr18 
YES
Figure 2 
Representation of the proposed strategic approach to targeting land use change for biomass 
feedstock production in the UK over the next 35 years, and suggested sources of available 
‘spare’ land to target for biomass production.
   Land excluded (UKERC 
constraint masks)
    Suitable arable land
   Suitable grassland land
   Amount required to 
be converted to 2G 
bioenergy crops
   Potentially suitable 
grassland unlocked by 
the availability of CCS
GRASSLAND
2015-2025
2025-2035
FOREST
OTHER
2035-2045
2045-2055
ARABLE
short-term opportunities
• 120kHa existing land under 1G bioenergy crops
• 90kHa economically marginal land
•  100kHa 20% of cereal & oilseed  
rape overproduction area
•  35kHa permanent fallow  
uncropped arable land
• Total 345kHa
longer-term opportunities
• 35kHa from 50% reduction in on-farm fruit & vegetable waste
•  100kHa from 50% reduction in fruit, vegetable and meat consumer waste
• 100kHa from further 20% cereal & oilseed rape overproduction area
• 500-700kHa from improved utilisation grassland
•  10kHa white land (public land being sold off e.g. FC land harvested for 
energy)
• Total 745-945kHa
•  Cumulative total 1090-1290kHa before impacting existing levels of 
UK food security
70-105 TWh/yr 
(based on  
conversion  
of 1.4mHa)
www.eti.co.uk
Energy Technologies Institute
14
15
answering the four critical questions – Insights gained 
through the ETI’s Bioenergy and CCs programmes 
Continued 
At the start of ETI’s Bioenergy programme in 
2008, much uncertainty and concern existed 
around the availability and sustainability of 
bioenergy at the scales required. Considerable 
work has been completed by ETI and others in 
this space over the last few years. The ETI’s 4-year 
Ecosystem Land Use Modelling (ELUM) field trials 
project has significantly advanced the evidence 
and understanding of the sustainability of biomass 
feedstock production in the UK, especially around 
soil carbon sequestration (see summary findings) 
and the ability to deliver genuine carbon savings 
across bioenergy value chains (see Figure 5). 
Most importantly, it showed that given the right 
choice of land-use change, crop type and location 
– substantial emission savings can be delivered 
through bioenergy, and many opportunities exist 
to optimise the wider ecosystem service benefits 
from biomass feedstock production in the UK.
Financial sustainability can also be achieved 
through more strategic approaches to agricultural 
land use in the UK, and specifically optimising 
local productivity by taking account of economic, 
environmental and wider accessibility factors.  
As part of our evidence collection and assessment 
of land available for biomass, we have also 
assessed the drivers for land use change to 
bioenergy (Enabling UK Biomass project21) and the 
economic counterfactuals, and collated example 
case studies where farmers/landowners have 
successfully diversified part of their land to  
include biomass production22.
 It is important to note that the ELUM project 
findings are only part of the ‘value chain’ (i.e. soil 
carbon changes from biomass production), and 
therefore need to be read in conjunction with 
Figure 5, which contextualises the importance 
of soil carbon changes and wider direct land use 
change emissions, relative to the GHG emissions 
across the whole system-level value chain (e.g. 
taking in to account transport and conversion 
emissions too). Only this value chain assessment 
enables us to test whether genuine carbon savings 
could be delivered relative to fossil fuel baselines.
Figure 3 
Estimates derived from the ELUM model on mean soil GHG emissions over 40 years (relative 
to counterfactual land use), expressed as net GHG emissions per hectare across the UK.  
The model was validated using empirical data collected during the ELUM project.
Our analysis demonstrated that where land use change resulted in an increase in soil emissions 
(i.e. soil carbon losses), these were more than offset by the CO2 captured and stored when 
that biomass feedstock was used in a BECCS value chain. Further details can be found in our 
previous insight report24.
wheat
Change in emissions in cumulative 
tCo2 e/ha
  Mean – Arable
  Mean – Grass
  Mean – Forest
osr
sB
misc
srC
srF
400
300
200
100
0
-100
-200
-300
Error bar 
Error bars account for the difference 
between the mean soil GHG 
emissions and the mean soil GHG 
emission +/- 2 standard deviations.
  Second generation (2G) biomass, such as 
Miscanthus, Short Rotation Coppice (SRC) 
Willow and Short Rotation Forestry (SRF) 
grown on arable land, or grassland sites 
where appropriate, offer the greatest 
potential yield and GHG emission savings, 
but also could deliver wider biodiversity and 
ecosystem service benefits, including hazard 
regulation (e.g. flood prevention), disease 
and pest control, improving water and soil 
quality, and acting as wildlife/game cover
  The GHG benefits of increased planting of 
2G bioenergy crops (including forestry) is 
apparent since crops that are well-matched 
to sites can start acting as net carbon sinks 
as soon as they start growing (see Figure 3 
for national average) 
  Short Rotation Forestry is likely to offer the 
greatest GHG savings in bioenergy value 
chains, particularly when grown on arable 
or grassland, due to its ability to deliver 
greatest soil carbon sequestration 
summary findings from ElUm
23
21 
 ETI (2015) Enabling UK Biomass. Available from: http://www.eti.co.uk/bioenergy-enabling-uk-biomass/ 
22 
  ETI (2016) Bioenergy Crops in the UK: Case Studies of successful whole farm integration. Available from: http://www.eti.co.uk/library/bioenergy-
crops-in-the-uk-case-studies-on-successful-whole-farm-integration-evidence-pack. 
23/24   ETI (2016), Delivering greenhouse gas emission savings through UK bioenergy value chains.  
Available from: http://www.eti.co.uk/delivering-greenhouse-gas-emission-savings-through-uk-bioenergy-value-chains/
www.eti.co.uk
Energy Technologies Institute
16
17
a) optimising feedstock properties for  
future bioenergy conversion technologies
In parallel with understanding whether 
bioenergy value chains deliver genuine carbon 
savings, and understanding the availability of 
different feedstocks, it is critically important 
to understand the characteristics of biomass 
and waste feedstocks, and their variability, in 
order to understand how energy conversion 
technologies may perform when utilising these 
feedstocks. Biomass and waste feedstocks can 
raise new issues with conversion that haven’t been 
encountered with fossil fuels, such as moisture, 
ash (content and fusion temperature), minor 
constituents such as silica, calcium, potassium 
and chlorine, and especially for waste – issues 
with tars.
Building the evidence base around physical and 
chemical composition of different feedstocks 
enables process designers to assess the relative 
opportunities for optimising bioenergy value 
chains – whether it be through selection of 
feedstocks with particular traits; pre-treating the 
feedstocks in some way; blending the feedstocks 
to dilute any issues; adapting the conversion 
technology itself to better deal with any fouling, 
slagging or performance issues; and/or bolstering 
clean-up technologies to negate any changes 
in emissions resulting from the use of particular 
feedstocks. ETI has commissioned a series of 
projects to build this evidence base, including 
the Characterisation of Feedstocks; Energy from 
Waste; and Techno-economic assessment of 
biomass pre-processing (TEABP) projects25, 26, 27. 
Insights from their combined outputs will be 
published as an ETI insights report in 2017, and 
have informed the scope of the Biomass Feedstock 
Improvement Process (BioFIP) Demonstrator 
project currently being commissioned by the ETI.
Two ETI projects have looked at the future 
relevance of different bioenergy conversion 
technologies, and both have indicated that 
advanced gasification appears to have the 
greatest potential for delivering flexible low-cost 
energy. The Energy from Waste project compared 
combustion, anaerobic digestion, advanced 
gasification and pyrolysis, and concluded that 
advanced gasification (with syngas clean-up) 
offered the greatest potential benefits for 
converting waste to energy at the town scale (an 
optimal scale in terms of balancing economies 
of scale with logistical costs and associated 
emissions). The BVCM project assessed the 
current maturity, cost and performance levels 
of all bioenergy technologies, and consistently 
highlights advanced gasification as one of the key 
low-cost means of delivering the required carbon 
savings at the UK energy system level out to  
the 2050s. 
Advanced gasification technology, although not 
the only option, is a key enabler of flexible energy 
system solutions, since the syngas produced 
can be converted to electricity (either directly 
or via hydrogen production), CHP, bio-methane 
and transport fuels, making it one of the most 
flexible, scalable, and cost-effective bioenergy 
technologies available. ETI has progressed 
this important technology by supporting the 
development and demonstration of ‘advanced 
gasification’, i.e. where the syngas quality is 
sufficiently increased and cleaner, such that it 
could be used consistently in an engine or turbine. 
We have assessed the potential of three different 
types of advanced gasification and gas clean-up 
systems through our Waste Gasification project: 
plasma, low-temperature- and high-temperature- 
gasification and gas clean-up systems. We 
assessed plant designs capable of net electrical 
efficiencies of more than 25% (from initial ‘raw 
waste’ feedstock to power generation), and 
availability greater than 80%, at the ‘town’ scale, 
i.e. 5-20MWe. Three project teams (Advanced 
Plasma Power, Broadcrown and Royal Dahlman) 
evidenced their designs through significant 
analysis of UK waste feedstocks from different 
suppliers, modelling, and laboratory and pilot-
scale testing of different components within  
their system, i.e. gasifier, gas clean-up and  
power generation. 
ETI is progressing one of these designs to 
construction and demonstration, with a target 
operational date of Q2, 2018. Successfully 
delivering this Advanced Gasification 
Demonstrator project will be a major step  
in the acceleration and de-risking of this  
important bioenergy technology.
2. what are the right combinations of feedstock, pre-processing, 
conversion and carbon capture technologies to deploy for bioenergy 
production in the Uk?
answering the four critical questions – Insights gained 
through the ETI’s Bioenergy and CCs programmes 
Continued 
25  ETI’s Techno-economic assessment of Biomass Pre-Processing Technologies (TEABP) project is assessing the cost-effectiveness of pre-processing, taking 
into account different feedstocks, storage, logistics, pre-processing and conversion technologies. Insights informed the commissioning of the Biomass 
Feedstock Improvement Process (BioFIP) demonstrator project. More information available from: http://www.eti.co.uk/project/techno-economic-
assessment-of-biomass-pre-processing/
26  ETI’s Energy from Waste project assessed the energy-bearing content and composition of different waste feedstocks in the UK,  
and modelled availability out to 2050. More information available from: http://www.eti.co.uk/project/energy-from-waste/
27  ETI’s Characterisation of Feedstocks (CoF) project is assessing the physical and chemical properties of a selection of different  
UK-derived biomass feedstocks. More information available from: http://www.eti.co.uk/project/characterisation-of-feedstocks/
www.eti.co.uk
Energy Technologies Institute
18
19
Figure 4 
Capital costs of building a 50 Mt/yr CO2 (~10 GWe) CCS network (£bn 2014 undiscounted)29
b) BECCs value chains – what carbon capture 
technologies do we need to develop?
BECCS technologies represent one of the very 
few practical, scalable and economic means 
of removing large quantities of CO2 from the 
atmosphere relevant for the UK, and the only 
approach which generates a useful ‘by-product’ – 
power, heat or hydrogen.
ETI work on CCS has examined key aspects of 
its deployment for both fossil (coal and gas) and 
biomass (co-firing and dedicated) feedstocks, 
including costs, risk and technology maturity. 
The Bioenergy programme has focused on the 
costs and challenges of BECCS technologies28, and 
the CCS programme has examined risk and cost 
reduction in CO2 transportation and storage,  
and the cost of CO2 capture. 
  The cost of CO2 capture is the largest single 
cost element in CCS (see Figure 4), and can be 
comparable to the cost of the original power 
station. Additionally, the process of capturing 
CO2 itself can use up to 20% of the power 
station output.
  Plant scale remains the principal driver of 
CAPEX, rather than choice of technology, with 
larger plants having lower specific capital costs. 
The weighted feedstock energy content and 
cost is one of the key drivers of LCOE, with 
biomass pellets currently being more expensive 
than fossil fuel feedstocks e.g. coal.
  A number of capture technologies warrant 
further development. Whilst some technologies 
are more likely to be operational first (post-
combustion amine), it is not yet possible to 
identify next generation technologies which 
could end up being the dominant CCS/
BECCS technology by 2050. It is likely that as 
technologies develop, such as gasification to 
generate more flexible fuels.
  Dedicated (100% biomass) BECCS technologies 
offer significant opportunity to deliver 
substantially more negative emissions than 
co-firing technologies, and would be more 
attractive in the longer term if and when 
financial incentives are applied to negative 
emissions and avoided carbon. In the absence 
of such incentives, co-firing could be a more 
cost-effective way of minimising penalties 
for positive emissions, and is likely to play an 
important ‘transition role’.
  The TESBiC28 project findings indicate that the 
most significant barriers to the deployment 
of BECCS technologies will be the scale of 
investment required, the limited price of 
carbon and hence the limited value of negative 
emissions, rather than being technical barriers.
  Most cost savings in the next two decades 
will be delivered through reducing costs 
by deployment, rather than fundamental 
technology breakthroughs. Combined with 
the low growth rate of CCS and the absence 
today of a commercially-ready game-changer, 
this means amines and pre-combustion 
technologies will continue to be the technology 
of choice in power production for several years. 
  It is important that technologies offering 
breakthrough performance are funded through 
to demonstration level so that they can enter 
the market when other aspects of risk have 
been reduced.
  By the mid-2030s CCS plants may have 
to respond to daily demand changes, and 
therefore operate at lower load – technologies 
that offer reduced capital costs or system 
flexibility will be more attractive. ETI system 
modelling indicates new investments for this 
market should favour both natural gas plants 
due to cost, and biomass gasification due to 
the system value of negative emissions and 
flexibility in terms of the end product.
answering the four critical questions – Insights gained 
through the ETI’s Bioenergy and CCs programmes 
Continued 
28  Techno-Economic Study of Biomass to power with CCS (TESBiC) project commissioned and funded by the ETI. Further information  
available at: http://www.eti.co.uk/programmes/bioenergy/biomass-to-power-with-carbon-capture-and-storage
29  ETI (2016) Reducing the cost of CCS – Developments in capture plant technology. Available from: http://www.eti.co.uk/reducing-the-cost-of-ccs-
developments-in-capture-plant-technology-2/
  T&S infrastructure
  Capture (industry)
  Capture (power)
  Base plant (power)
Cumulative CAPEX 
(£billion - undiscounted)
Share of Cumulative CAPEX (%)
2030
2030
44%
38%
13%
5%
2020
2020
45%
30%
23%
2%
2025
2025
47%
34%
15%
4%
9.5
8.1
1.1
2.7
13.5
6.3
4.6
0.6
2.0
5.3
2.4
1.6
1.2
0.1
21.4
www.eti.co.uk
Energy Technologies Institute
20
21
Collective insights from our ELUM and BVCM 
projects show that30:
  CCS is a game-changer. Bioenergy value chains 
with CCS, as shown in Figure 5, render direct 
Land Use Change (dLUC) emissions of second-
order importance. Most 2G biomass feedstocks 
grown in the UK and used in BECCS would 
deliver substantial negative emissions to the UK, 
and flexibility, across all key vectors of power, 
heat, liquid and gaseous fuels.
  If bioenergy is deployed without CCS, dLUC 
emissions can be material, either contributing 
GHG emission savings via soil carbon 
sequestration, or by producing additional 
emissions at the value chain level, depending  
on the choice of crop type, location and 
ultimate use in the energy system. Our work  
has reinforced the need to assess emissions 
across the whole value chain in order to judge 
the scale of carbon savings achieved, and not 
just view feedstock carbon debt, land-use 
change emissions or conversion technologies  
in isolation. 
  The greatest emissions savings are when 
bioenergy is used with CCS. This combination 
means that biomass and waste feedstocks are 
‘best’ deployed in conversion technologies 
which result in power or hydrogen – since 
neither have any carbon content in the 
resultant energy vector, and CCS can be used to 
capture the maximum amount of CO2 from the 
conversion process. 
answering the four critical questions – Insights gained 
through the ETI’s Bioenergy and CCs programmes 
Continued 
Figure 5 
Quantifying the impact of dLUC emissions and CCS on UK bio-electricity value chains (lifecycle GHG 
emissions: gCO2e/MJ)
3. how can we deliver the greatest emissions savings from bioenergy 
and BECCs in the Uk?
30  ETI (2016), Delivering greenhouse gas emission savings through UK bioenergy value chains. Available from: 
http://www.eti.co.uk/delivering-greenhouse-gas-emission-savings-through-uk-bioenergy-value-chains/ 
The graphs shows how emissions for different bioenergy value chains vary depending on the land 
use prior to growing the biomass feedstock. Along the x-axis, “A”, “G” and “F” denote transitions 
from arable, grassland and forest respectively. The emissions have been calculated over a 20 year 
accounting period using the rules set out in the EU Renewable Energy Directive (RED). Total net 
GHG emissions for each bioenergy value chain are shown by the black dots. 
The change in soil carbon stock emissions are the mean values from the ELUM project. The 
error bars account for the difference between the mean soil carbon stock change and the mean 
emissions +/- 2 Standard Deviations (error bars are capped at the min or max value (in ELUM) if 
they fall within 2SD of the mean). 
The Grid Power baseline (grey bar) is taken from the current EU default. The dotted grey line 
indicates a 60% saving vs the fossil baseline – the savings a bioenergy value chain should meet 
under sustainability rules. Please note – under sustainability rules, Forest to SRF transitions would 
not be deemed a land use change, and therefore no dLUC emissions are reported; whilst all other 
transitions from Forest would not be permitted (but the data is shown to illustrate why).
350
Grid 
power
Misc pellets IGCC
A
G
SRF pellets 
syngas CCGT
A
G
Straw pellet 
amine CCS
A
G
SRF pellets + 
CCGT + CCS
F
A
G
Misc pellet syngas 
CCGT + CCS
A
G
Lifecycle GHG emissions (gCO2e/MJ electricity)
F
F
F
F
200
100
-200
-300
-500
-350
-550
250
300
150
50
-50
-150
-250
-400
-600
-450
0
-100
  Fossil baseline
  
  Sequestration
  
  Cultivation
  Transport
  Densification
  Conversion
  Threshold GHGs
  Total emissions
ELUM direct 
LUC (SOC)
  Direct LUC (VEG) 
   A = ex-Arable
   G = ex-Grass
   F = ex-Forest
Land Use Change 
(LUC) not ‘allowed’ 
under RED
X
X
X
X
www.eti.co.uk
Energy Technologies Institute
22
23
   The 5 selected sites in strategic 
UK storage Appraisal Project
   Stores appraised in DECC 
Competition FEED studies
  Other key storage opportunities
Endurance
Barque field
Bunter Closure 40
Note: Areas of the circles are indicative of CO2 storage resource potential.
Bunter Closure 3
Bunter Closure 9
Hewett field
Bunter Closure 36
Viking A
Viking fields
Bruce field
Aberdeen
Forth
Teesside
Thames
Immingham
Harding field
Grid Aq.
Mey Aq.
Maureen Aq.
North and South Morecambe fields
Hamilton field
Coracle Aq.
Captain Aq.
Captain field
Captain X
Forties 5 Aq.
Goldeneye field
Forties 5 Sites 1
Liverpool
storage potential
ETI has commissioned a number of projects to 
assess different aspects of storage of CO2 around 
the UK. It started with the development of an 
atlas of UK offshore stores – a high level appraisal 
of about 600 potential stores (UKSAP Project), 
and this database is now managed by The Crown 
Estate and the British Geological Survey under the 
name of “CO2Stored”. In 2015, DECC funded the 
ETI to specify, commission and manage appraisal 
work (Strategic UK Storage Appraisal Project) on 
five geological storage sites in more detail (both 
depleted oil and gas fields and saline aquifers),  
in order to identify the amount of storage that 
was confidently exploitable in the short and  
medium term.
  The UK is endowed with a rich and diverse 
national offshore CO2 storage resource, key 
components of which can be brought into 
service readiness without extensive appraisal 
programmes thanks to decades of petroleum 
exploration and development activity.
  The portfolio of 5 sites selected in the Strategic 
UK Storage Appraisal Project (see Figure 6) is 
geographically and technically diverse, and 
presents options for clean energy and industrial 
development around the UK.
  The ETI work, together with the three sites 
(Hewett, Goldeneye and Endurance) which 
completed FEED studies through the DECC 
CCS Programme, has enabled a mature and 
well-qualified UK storage proposition to be 
developed, such that more than 1.5Gte worth  
of stores could be fully operational by 2030. 
This is enough to service around 10GW of 
power generation and other industrial sources 
fitted with CCS, as highlighted in the ETI’s CCS 
scenarios work31. 
  It is important to site new power stations with 
CCS close to storage sites and emission sources 
(e.g. on populous estuaries close to potential 
offshore stores, such as Thames, Mersey, Tees 
and Humber).
  The discounted lifecycle costs (10% discount, 
2015) for this offshore pipeline and storage 
would add only c.£5-£9/MWh to the UK 
electricity price.
The insights from this work were incorporated 
into BVCM, and enabled us to identify the optimal 
locations for, and nature and scale of, clusters 
of BECCS technologies in the UK, taking into 
account the likely sources of UK-grown biomass 
or waste feedstocks, and the port locations 
for imported biomass. Modelling optimised on 
minimal cost and GHG emissions revealed strong 
preferences for clusters of large, highly-efficient 
BECCS plants utilising gasification or combustion 
technology to produce hydrogen or electricity at 
two main shoreline hub locations (onshore points 
at which captured CO2 is compressed and piped 
to the injection point of the store): Thames and 
Teesside. These locations are also closest to key 
port facilities capable of handling and distributing 
imported feedstock. Peterhead, Barrow and 
Easington were also sites of considerable CO2 
sequestration.
answering the four critical questions – Insights gained 
through the ETI’s Bioenergy and CCs programmes 
Continued 
Figure 6 
Selected Potential CO2 Storage Sites in the UK
4. how much Co2 could be stored from Uk sources and how do we monitor 
these stores efficiently and safely?
31  ETI (2015) Building the UK carbon capture and storage sector by 2030 – Scenarios and actions. Available at: https://d2umxnkyjne36n.cloudfront.net/
insightReports/CCS-Building-the-UK-carbon-capture-and-storage-sector-by-2013.pdf?mtime=20160909104732.
Source: ETI Strategic UK Storage Appraisal Project
www.eti.co.uk
Energy Technologies Institute
24
25
managing the risks of storage
Risks in storage are assessed through the process 
of storage appraisal. For those stores which are 
depleted gas fields, the activities of Oil and Gas 
Operators have often collected enough data to 
fully evaluate the store. For the bulk of the UK’s 
storage resource however, which sit in saline 
aquifers, many have not been explored fully, 
and will require new appraisal wells to check the 
properties of the storage and sealing cap-rocks. In 
2013, the ETI co-funded an appraisal well (the UK’s 
first – the “Aquifer Appraisal Project”) for the huge 
Endurance store off Yorkshire. The results were 
excellent and National Grid progressed design of 
the store, and much of the findings are published 
in Key Knowledge Deliverables (KKDs) on the 
Government website32.
Current research and evidence shows that 
leakage from stores is highly unlikely. Behaviour 
of the CO2 deep below the seabed (e.g. 2km) is 
expected to be observed by a suite of monitoring 
tools. However if CO2 did escape, it would be 
difficult to predict with certainty exactly where 
and how it would reach the seabed. To enable 
low cost, reliable marine monitoring, the ETI 
initiated a project to develop a long-range mobile 
autonomous vehicle for measurement, monitoring 
and verification of storage integrity (the MMV 
Project) which will patrol the sea floor over large 
areas. The prototype (see Figure 7 below) will be 
trialled in the North Sea in 2017.
answering the four critical questions – Insights gained 
through the ETI’s Bioenergy and CCs programmes 
Continued 
Figure 7 
Autonomous marine vehicle prototype being developed through the ETI MMV project  
(The Autosub Long Range AUV, National Oceanography Centre, UK)
32    https://www.gov.uk/government/collections/carbon-capture-and-storage-knowledge-sharing
It is often helpful to view the whole system demonstration and commercial 
deployment of BECCs as a jigsaw puzzle, with each core element of the value 
chain being a separate jigsaw piece: 
Critical evidence and understanding has now been created for most of the individual jigsaw pieces 
through our projects, and informed by the work of others, which has enabled us to draw out key 
insights around BECCS.
Biomass  
and waste 
availability
Biomass  
feedstock 
properties
Bioenergy 
and BECCS 
value chains
Bioenergy 
conversion 
technologies
Gas pipeline 
infrastructure
Storage  
integrity – 
detecting  
leakage
CO2 Capture 
technology
CO2 Storage 
capacity and 
methods
ConClUsIons –
ComplETIng ThE BECCs pICTUrE
www.eti.co.uk
Energy Technologies Institute
26
dennis gammer 
BSc, Dip, MIChemE, CEng 
Strategy Manager  
Carbon Capture and Storage   
Dennis Gammer joined the ETI as Strategy 
Manager, Carbon Capture and Storage in 2010. 
He has 30 years experience in technology 
development and licensing and is a chartered 
chemical engineer.
 
01509 202010
 
dennis.gammer@eti.co.uk
geraldine newton-Cross 
BSc, MRes, PhD 
Strategy Manager  
Bioenergy  
Geraldine joined the ETI in 2008. She is a multi-
disciplined scientist with a PhD and Masters of 
Research, and has over 13 years experience in 
managing research and development.
 
01509 202052
 
geraldine.newton-cross@eti.co.uk
27
The aim of this paper was to highlight the progress that 
has been made by ETI, our partners and others working 
on BECCS over the last eight years. The collective 
insights and progress delivered has shown that all the 
core component parts of a BECCS system have been 
significantly de-risked and advanced, with very few 
technical or sustainability barriers identified. The next 
steps needed are to put the components together in a 
full chain and in parallel develop the domestic bioenergy 
feedstock supply.
Overall, the UK is well-placed to utilise BECCS as a means 
of helping to meet our 2050 GHG emissions reduction 
targets. However, to realise the benefits of negative 
emissions, support is needed over the next 5-10 years 
to deploy a BECCS technology and CO2 storage at a 
commercial scale.
UK government support of BECCS technology is key to 
the UK fulfilling its GHG carbon reduction commitments 
by 2050, since the final decision is a political and 
financial one, not fundamentally technical33. 
This progress in the technical, environmental and 
financial evidence and understanding, and the 
commercial demonstration steps being taken by others 
globally, should give the UK government confidence 
to commit to the deployment of this vital technology 
in the UK. The Oxburgh report suggests that full-
chain CCS costs at c.£85/MWh are feasible under the 
right circumstances, a figure which ETI’s analysis can 
corroborate. The report concludes that, under the right 
conditions, even the first CCS projects can compete 
on price with other forms of clean electricity. Given 
the evidence and progress highlighted in this report, 
we would urge the government to give consideration 
to ensuring that the UK’s CCS Strategy encompasses 
demonstration of BECCS technology and delivering 
negative emissions within the next decade.
All BECCS jigsaw pieces are now clear and on the table. 
Others have started to put them in place internationally, 
and the UK should do the same.  
nEXT sTEps
33  As also stated in Lord Oxburgh’s review (2016): lowest cost decarbonisation for the uk: the critical role of CCS. Report to the Secretary of State 
for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy from the Parliamentary Advisory Group on Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS). Available from: http://
www.ccsassociation.org/news-and-events/reports-and-publications/parliamentary-advisory-group-on-ccs-report/ 
aBoUT ThE aUThors
FUrThEr rEadIng From ThE ETI
reducing the cost of CCs - 
developments in Capture plant 
technology
www.eti.co.uk/insights/reducing-the-
cost-of-ccs-developments-in-capture- 
plant-technology
Enabling Uk Biomass
www.eti.co.uk/insights/bioenergy-
enabling-uk-biomass
delivering greenhouse gas 
emission savings through Uk 
bioenergy value chains
www.eti.co.uk/insights/delivering-
greenhouse-gas-emission-savings-
through-uk-bioenergy-value-chains
Insights into the future Uk 
Bioenergy sector, gained using the 
ETI’s Bioenergy Value Chain model 
(BVCm)
www.eti.co.uk/insights/bioenergy-
insights-into-the-future-uk-bioenergy-
sector-gained-using-the-etis-
bioenergy-value-chain-model-bvcm
Building the Uk carbon capture and 
storage sector by 2030
www.eti.co.uk/insights/carbon-capture-
and-storage-building-the-uk-carbon-
capture-and-storage-sector-by-2030
The role of hydrogen storage in a 
clean responsive power system
www.eti.co.uk/insights/carbon-
capture-and-storage-the-role-
of-hydrogen-storage-in-a-clean-
responsive-power-system
www.eti.co.uk
Energy Technologies Institute 
Holywell Building 
Holywell Way 
Loughborough 
LE11 3UZ
© 2016 Energy Technologies Institute LLP
01509 202020
www.eti.co.uk
info@eti.co.uk
@the_ETI
