Extract from the 2023 Remuneration Committee report 
Directors’ Remuneration Policy - approved by shareholders at the 2023 AGM 
Below is the proposed Policy which, if approved by shareholders, will be effective immediately after the AGM on 26 April 
2023 and will be binding until the close of the 2026 AGM. 
Base salary 
Base salary helps to attract, reward and retain the right calibre of Executive Director to deliver the leadership and 
management needed to execute the Group’s strategy and business plan. 
Proposed Change (for adoption in 2023) 
Adopt consistent wording for the ability to move base salaries to the market rate where Executive Directors are either 
(i) an external appointment made on a below market base salary; or (ii) an internal promotion on a below market base 
salary. 
Practical operation 
Base salary reflects the role, the executive’s skills and 
experience, and market level. To determine the market level, 
the Committee reviews remuneration data on executive 
positions at companies which the Committee considers to be 
appropriate comparators. The comparator companies are 
selected, with advice from the Committee’s remuneration 
advisers, taking into account factors such as, but not limited 
to, sector, size, and international presence. 
Where base salary on appointment is below market level 
to reflect experience, it will be increased over time to align 
with the market level, subject to performance. 
Base salaries of all Executive Directors are generally 
reviewed once each year, with increases applying from 
January. Reviews cover individual performance, experience, 
development in the role, market comparisons and pay 
reviews for the wider workforce. 
 
Maximum potential value 
The base salaries of Executive Directors in post at the start 
of the policy period, and who remain in the same role 
throughout the policy period, are eligible for increases during 
the policy period but will not usually be increased by a higher 
percentage than the average annual percentage increase 
in salaries of all other employees in the Group at the time 
of increase. 
Exceptions to this, subject to performance and development, 
are where: 
(i) An Executive Director has been appointed at below 
market level to reflect experience. 
(ii) An Executive Director has been promoted internally 
(or the scope or nature of their role has changed) and their 
salary is below market level.  
 
Pension 
Pension provision is one of the components to attract, reward and retain the right calibre of executive, to ensure delivery 
of the leadership and management needed to execute the Group’s purpose and strategy. 
Proposed Change (for adoption in 2023) 
The policy is updated to reference that Executive Director pensions are now aligned with the rate typically provided to 
the UK wider workforce for new joiners of up to 10% of base salary. 
Practical operation 
Executive Directors are entitled to a contribution to the 
Group’s defined contribution pension plan, a cash payment 
in lieu of pension (subject to normal statutory deductions), 
or a combination of pension contributions and cash 
in lieu of pension. 
 
Maximum potential value 
The contribution rates for existing Executive Directors are 
limited to the rate for new joiners to the UK wider workforce, 
which is currently 10% of base salary. This is also the most 
common pension contribution rate for UK-based employees. 
The pension contribution rate for any new Executive Director 
will also be limited to the rate for new joiners to the 
wider workforce. 
 
 
Benefits 
Benefits are provided to be market competitive as an integral part of Executive Directors’ total remuneration. 
Practical operation 
Executive Directors receive a car benefit, life assurance, 
income protection, the opportunity to participate in all-
employee share plans on the same basis as other 
employees, annual private health assessment and annual 
private medical cover. Additional benefits may be provided if 
the Committee considers them appropriate (including tax 
equalisation expenses and benefits or allowances which are 
customarily provided in the country where an Executive 
Director resides). 
Relocation expenses are paid, where appropriate, 
in individual cases. Executive Directors’ relocation expenses 
are determined on a case-by-case basis. The Policy is 
designed to assist the Executive Director to relocate 
to a home of similar standing. 
 
Maximum potential value 
Benefits are set at a level appropriate to the individual’s role 
and circumstances. 
The maximum opportunity will depend on the type of benefit 
and cost of its provision, which will vary according to the 
market and individual circumstances. 
Annual bonus 
The award of annual bonus will be based on annual performance against financial and operational metrics linked to the 
business plan. The aim of the deferred portion of the annual bonus is to further align Executive Directors to 
shareholders’ interests, by linking share-based reward to long-term sustainable performance. 
Proposed Change (for adoption in 2023) 
(i) Simplification of the wording on the choice of performance metrics. The majority of the annual bonus must still be 
earned based on performance against financial targets. 
(ii) Simplification of current approach to that part of annual bonus which is deferred in shares. The change will specify 
that 40% of any annual bonus earned is deferred into Drax’s shares. This approach replaces the prevailing more 
complex approach whereby 100% of any bonus earned against strategic targets takes place subject to 40% of the 
total bonus outcome being deferred. 
(ii) Removal of the two-year holding period on deferred bonus shares so that any deferred shares awarded vest after 
three years. These shares will need to continue to be held (as a minimum on a net of tax basis) until Drax’s share 
ownership guidelines are met.  
Practical operation 
The Committee will determine the annual bonus payable 
after the year-end, based on performance against targets.  
40% of the total bonus outcome will be deferred into shares 
in the form of nil cost options or conditional awards under 
a Deferred Share Plan (DSP). The period over which shares 
are deferred is normally three years. Vesting is subject to 
continued service or “good leaver” termination provisions.  
Deferred shares vest based on continued employment and 
lapse other than in defined good leaver circumstances. 
Dividends or dividend equivalents (which may assume 
notional reinvestment) are paid on DSP awards. 
In certain circumstances, the Committee can apply malus 
and clawback to bonus awards. 
 Maximum potential value 
 Role 
Maximum opportunity  
(% of base salary) 
 CEO 
175% 
 Other Executive Directors 
150% 
  
 Performance measures 
The majority of the annual bonus will be based on financial 
metrics. The Remuneration Committee reviews and 
determines the metrics, weightings and calibration of targets 
annually taking into account business objectives and the 
strategic priorities of the business.  
The performance metrics applicable to the annual bonus 
awards are split between financial and strategic metrics. 
• 
Financial – performance measures based on annual 
financial and operational targets, which will be linked 
directly to the performance of the Group and 
determined by the Board.  
• 
Strategic – performance measures based on non-
financial and strategic targets, which will be 
determined annually by the Board and will be aligned 
with the business strategy. 
There is no payment for below threshold performance. 
The outcome for threshold performance is 0% of 
maximum. The outcome for target performance is 
50% of maximum. 
Targets, outcomes and resulting payouts are published in the 
Annual Report on Remuneration. 
The Committee will review the formulaic outcome of the bonus 
award and has the discretion to amend the final outcome to 
make sure that bonus payments reflect overall performance. 
The use of such discretion will be explained fully in the 
relevant Annual Report on Remuneration. 
In exceptional circumstances such that the Committee 
believes the original measures and/or targets are no longer 
appropriate, the Committee has discretion to amend 
performance measures and targets during the year.  
 
 
Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) 
The Group’s LTIP provides long-term alignment with shareholders based on the outcome of performance against the 
conditions set for each award (which for awards granted in 2023 will be Relative Total Shareholder Return and 
Cumulative Adjusted Earnings Per Share). 
Practical operation 
Under the LTIP, Executive Directors may at the discretion 
of the Committee receive an annual grant of shares subject 
to performance conditions. 
Shares vest on the third anniversary of the grant, subject 
to continued service or in exceptional circumstances earlier 
subject to specified “good leaver” termination provisions, 
and the achievement of performance conditions over a three-
year period determined by the Committee. Vested awards 
are then subject to a further holding period of two years for 
Executive Directors. 
Dividends or dividend equivalents (which may assume 
notional reinvestment) may be paid on LTIP awards. 
There is no payment for below threshold performance. 
The outcome for threshold performance is 25% of maximum. 
The Committee will include an override provision in each 
grant under the LTIP. This will give the Committee discretion 
to determine that no vesting shall occur, or that vesting shall 
be reduced, if there are circumstances (relating to the 
Group’s overall performance or otherwise) which make 
vesting when calculated by reference to the performance 
conditions alone inappropriate. 
In certain circumstances, the Committee can apply malus or 
clawback to unvested/vested awards. 
The Committee reserves discretion to: 
(i) amend the performance conditions/targets attached to 
outstanding awards granted under this Policy, in the 
event of a major corporate event or significant change in 
economic circumstances, or a change in accounting 
standards having a material impact on outcomes; and 
(ii) adjust the vesting of LTIP awards and/or the number 
of shares underlying unvested LTIP awards, on the 
occurrence of a corporate event or other reorganisation. 
In the event of a change of control, the treatment of long-
term incentives will be determined in accordance with the 
 Maximum potential value 
 Role 
Maximum opportunity  
(% of base salary) 
 CEO 
200.0% 
 Other Executive Directors 
175.0% 
  
In exceptional circumstances the Committee may on 
recruitment grant a percentage of base salary in excess 
of these amounts. 
Performance measures 
Awards will be subject to a combination of long-term 
measures which are aligned to the shareholder experience 
and may include financial metrics, shareholder value metrics, 
capital efficiency measures and ESG or strategic measures. 
plan rules. 
Shareholding requirement 
The shareholding requirement aligns the interests of Executive Directors with shareholders. 
Practical operation 
The shareholding requirement for the CEO is 250% of salary 
and for the other Executive Directors is 200% of salary. 
This is to be achieved within a period five years after the 
date of the 2020 AGM (or after the date of appointment for 
new Executive Directors if this is later) from vested shares 
derived from awards under the Company’s share plans. 
Until this level is reached, Executive Directors who receive 
shares by virtue of any share plan award or who receive 
DSP awards are expected to retain 50% of the shares 
received net (i.e. after income tax and national insurance 
contributions). Shares which have not vested and are subject 
to performance conditions will not count towards the 
requirement. Unvested awards subject to service only 
(e.g. DSP awards) will count towards the guideline on 
a net of tax basis. 
 
Maximum potential value 
N/A 
Performance measures 
N/A 
 
 
Post cessation shareholding requirement 
The Group’s post-cessation shareholding requirement aligns the interests of Executive Directors with shareholders 
over the longer term beyond their departure from the Group. 
Practical operation 
A post-cessation shareholding requirement, equal to the 
employment shareholding requirement (or the shareholding 
on departure if lower) applies for a two year period after 
cessation of employment. For clarity, the post cessation 
shareholding requirement is 250% of salary for the CEO 
and for the other Executive Directors is 200% of salary. 
In addition, shares vesting during this period will remain 
subject to the two-year post-vesting holding period, which 
may therefore extend beyond the two year period for which 
the post-cessation shareholding requirement applies. 
Shares purchased by the Executive Director (including those 
from all employee share plans), will not be included. 
Shares counting towards this requirement will not be 
released from the Employee Benefit Trust during the period 
in which the post-cessation shareholding requirement 
applies, to support enforceability. Acceptance of the post-
cessation shareholding requirement will be a condition of 
participation in all share awards granted, and will be included 
in the grant documentation for awards. 
Both Will Gardiner and Andy Skelton have entered into such 
an agreement. 
 
Maximum potential value 
N/A 
Performance measures 
N/A 
 
 
Performance measures and approach to setting targets 
The measures for elements of variable pay will be: 
• 
In respect of the annual bonus plan, financial, strategic and operational measures consisting of targets set by the 
Committee each year in conjunction with the Board. The targets are aligned with key business goals determined at the 
start of each year 
• 
In respect of shares awards granted under the LTIP, targets typically relate to a combination of: 
o 
Relative TSR, which aligns Executive Director remuneration with creation of long-term shareholder value; 
o 
Cumulative Adjusted EPS, which aligns Executive Director remuneration with the realisation of our earnings growth 
plans, which is a major determinant of shareholder value. 
• 
The Committee sets targets for the performance measures each year, taking into account market conditions, the 
business plan and other circumstances as appropriate. A summary of the measures that apply for the following year are 
disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration. 
• 
The Committee retains flexibility during the Policy period to change the weighting and choice of performance metrics 
to better align with strategy as it evolves.  
Circumstances in which malus or clawback may apply 
The Committee may, at any time within two years of the LTIP and DSP vesting or annual bonus payment, determine 
that malus and/or clawback provisions should be applied, in circumstances of: 
• 
material financial misstatement; 
• 
fraud or misconduct; 
• 
material failure of risk management and corporate failure; 
• 
if assessment of a performance condition is found to have been based on an error, inaccuracy or misleading 
information; and, 
• 
in other circumstances that the Committee considers justifying the operation of the clawback provision. 
Committee’s judgement and discretion 
In addition to assessing and making judgements on the meeting of performance targets and the appropriate incentives 
payable, the Committee has certain operational discretions it can exercise in relation to Executive Directors’ 
remuneration. These include, but are not limited to the following and in all cases any use of discretion will align with the 
discretions afforded to the Committee in the relevant plan rules: 
• 
reviewing the formulaic outcome of the annual bonus, DSP and LTIP awards and applying discretion to amend the final 
outcomes, to ensure that the outcomes reflect overall performance or an individual executive’s performance; 
• 
deciding whether to apply malus or clawback to an award;  
• 
determining whether a leaver is a “good leaver”; and 
• 
determining the treatment of awards in the event of a change of control. 
Where such discretion is exercised, it will be explained in the relevant Annual Report on Remuneration. 
 
Remuneration scenarios  
The composition and value of the Executive Directors’ remuneration packages at below threshold (minimum), target and 
maximum performance scenarios under the Drax Group Policy are set out in the charts below based on salary on 
projected earnings for 2023 based on current salary. The assumptions used in the charts are provided in the following 
table: 
Description 
Fixed remuneration 
Annual bonus 
Long-term incentive 
Minimum 
Base salary is the rate payable as 
determined by the Committee 
following the annual review. 
Benefits and pension entitlement 
remain as disclosed in the Policy. 
None 
None 
Target 
 
50% of the maximum opportunity. 
62.5% vesting (midpoint between 
threshold and maximum). 
Maximum 
 
Maximum cash bonus and deferred 
shares (175% of salary for CEO and 
150% of salary for other Executive 
Directors). 
Maximum LTIP opportunity (200% 
of salary for CEO and 175% of salary 
for other Executive Directors) with no 
allowance for share price 
appreciation or dividend equivalents.  
Maximum 
(with 50% 
share price 
appreciation) 
 
Maximum cash bonus and deferred 
shares (175% of salary for CEO 
and 150% of salary for other 
Executive Directors). 
Maximum LTIP opportunity 
(200% of salary for CEO and 175% 
of salary for other Executive 
Directors) with allowance for 50% 
share price appreciation over the 
three-year performance period and 
no allowance for dividend 
equivalents. 
 
[Charts] 
Approach to recruitment remuneration 
The Committee will apply the components of this Policy to determine the remuneration of newly appointed Executive 
Directors. Base salary will be set at a level appropriate to the role and the experience of the Executive Director being 
appointed. Where this is below the market level, it will be adjusted over time to align with the market level, subject to 
good performance.  
A new Executive Director would be eligible to receive an annual bonus of up to 150% of salary, or 175% for a new CEO, 
in each case with financial and strategic elements as set out in the Policy table above. In addition, a new Executive 
Director would be eligible to receive an LTIP award of up to 175% of salary, or 200% in the case of a new CEO, (in 
exceptional circumstances the Committee may on recruitment grant a percentage of salary in excess of these amounts 
but in such circumstances it would be capped at 300% of salary). 
The Committee may also determine it appropriate to honour prevailing contract commitments for an individual in the 
event they are promoted to an Executive Director position. 
In relation to Executive Directors appointed from outside the Group, where the Committee considers it to be necessary 
to secure the appointment of the Executive Director, the Committee may: 
• 
pay compensation for loss of benefits on resignation from a previous employer, or grant ‘buyout awards’ to 
replace awards or amounts forfeited by a previous employer (subject to the right to phase any payment to 
reflect performance, the requirement to mitigate loss and the Group’s right to clawback any amount which is 
subsequently paid to the Executive Director by the former employer, and to claw back an appropriate 
proportion of the payment if the Executive Director leaves soon after appointment). Any compensation or 
buyout award made will not exceed the value of the benefits, awards or amounts lost as determined by the 
Committee acting fairly and reasonably. Any buyout award would have equivalent terms (including vesting 
dates, performance conditions and malus/clawback provisions) to the original award it replaces. Where 
possible, the Committee will use existing share-based plans to grant such awards. However, in the event that 
these are not appropriate, the Committee retains the discretion to use the exception in Listing Rule 9.4.2 for 
the purpose of making an award to compensate the individual for amounts forfeited upon leaving a previous 
employer; 
• 
agree a rate for employer pensions contributions, or salary supplements in lieu of pension contribution, which 
reflects the contribution rate for the wider workforce at the date of appointment; 
• 
make appropriate payments in circumstances where an Executive Director is relocated from outside the UK; 
and, 
• 
approve the inclusion in the Executive Director’s service contract of any terms required by mandatory law in 
the jurisdiction where the Executive Director is resident. 
 
Service agreements and termination 
Executive Directors’ service agreements are of indefinite duration, terminable at any time by either party giving 12 
months’ notice. They are available for inspection at the Group’s registered office. 
Element 
Details 
Notice periods 
Executive Directors may be required to work during the notice period or may be provided with pay in lieu of 
notice if not required to work the full notice period. 
Under each of the Executive Directors’ service agreements, the Group has the right to make a payment in 
lieu of notice of termination, the amount of that payment being the salary and benefits that would have 
accrued to the Executive Director during the contractual notice period. For the avoidance of any doubt this 
excludes any performance bonus (or cash equivalent) for the relevant period of unworked notice. 
Compensation 
for loss of office 
If an Executive Director’s employment is brought to an end by either party, and if the Committee considers 
that it is necessary to pay the Executive Director a termination payment, the Committee’s policy, in the 
absence of a breach of the service agreement by the Executive Director, is to determine an Executive 
Director’s termination payment in accordance with his/her service agreement. The termination payment will 
be calculated based on the value of base salary and contractual benefits that would have accrued to the 
Executive Director during the contractual notice period. The Committee will seek mitigation to reduce the 
amount of any termination payment to a leaving Executive Director when appropriate to do so, having 
regard to the circumstances and the law governing the agreement. It may, for example, be appropriate to 
consider mitigation if the Executive Director has secured another job at a similar level. Mitigation would not 
apply retrospectively to a contractual payment in lieu of notice. 
In addition, the Executive Director may be entitled to a payment in respect of his/her statutory rights 
(including, where necessary to comply with the mandatory laws of the jurisdiction in which the Executive 
Director is resident, a remuneration payment or payment for loss of office in excess of the Executive 
Director’s pre-established contractual terms). The Group may pay reasonable fees for a departing 
Executive Director to obtain independent legal advice in relation to their termination arrangements and 
appropriate consideration for agreement to any contractual terms protecting the Group’s rights following 
termination. Moreover, reasonable fees in respect of outplacement support, insurance for a period 
following termination of office and repatriation assistance, which may include relocation back and tax 
advisory support. No service agreement includes any provision for the payment of compensation upon 
termination. Any compensation payable in those circumstances would need to be determined at the time 
and in the light of the circumstances. 
 
Element 
Details 
Treatment of 
annual bonus on 
termination 
All bonus payments are discretionary. The Committee will consider whether a departing Executive Director 
should receive a cash bonus and deferred share award in respect of the financial year in which, and/or 
immediately preceding which, the termination occurs, pro-rated to reflect the period of the performance year 
completed to the date on which the Executive Director ceases active service. The Committee will take into 
account performance; the reason for termination; cooperation with succession; any breach of goodwill; 
adherence to contractual obligations/restrictions; and any other factors which they believe should be taken 
into account. The service contract for Will Gardiner as CEO, does not entitle him to any payment of bonus 
on termination of employment. 
If the employment ends in any of the following circumstances, the Executive Director will be treated as a 
“good leaver” and the Executive Director will be eligible for an annual bonus: 
• 
redundancy; 
• 
retirement; 
• 
ill-health or disability, proved to the satisfaction of the Group; and, 
• 
death. 
If the termination is for any other reason, an award will be at the Committee’s discretion and it is the 
Committee’s policy to ensure that any such award properly reflects the departing Executive Director’s 
performance and behaviour towards the Group. Therefore the amount of any such award will be determined, 
taking into account (i) the Executive Director’s personal performance and behaviour towards the Group and 
(ii) the Group’s performance. 
If an award is made, it will normally be paid/granted as soon as is reasonably practicable after the Group 
performance element has been determined for the relevant period. Any bonus award will be paid in such 
proportions of cash and shares, and subject to such deferral arrangements as the Committee may 
determine. There may be circumstances in which the Committee considers it appropriate for the award to be 
made earlier, for example, on termination due to ill-health, in which case, on-target performance shall be 
assumed. 
Treatment of 
unvested long-term 
incentive and 
deferred share 
awards on 
termination 
The Committee will consider the extent to which deferred and conditional share awards held by the 
Executive Director under the DSP and LTIP should lapse or vest. Any determination by the Committee will 
be in accordance with the rules of the relevant plan. 
In summary, the rules of the LTIP provide that awards will vest (pro-rated to the date of employment 
termination) if employment ends for any of the following reasons (“long-term good leaver reasons”): 
• 
redundancy; 
• 
retirement; 
• 
ill-health or disability, proved to the satisfaction of the Company; 
• 
death; and, 
• 
change of control. 
If employment ends for any other reason, the participant may be deemed a “good leaver” at the Committee’s 
discretion. In doing so, it will take account of all relevant circumstances, in particular, the Group’s 
performance; the Executive Director’s performance and behaviour towards the Group during the 
performance cycle of the relevant awards; and other relevant factors, including the proximity of the award to 
its maturity date. 
Awards which vest subject to satisfaction of performance conditions, will be time pro-rated, and will 
ordinarily vest on the normal vesting date subject to the post-vesting shareholding period. 
The rules of the DSP provide that deferred bonus awards will vest (in full) if employment ends for any of the 
good leaver reasons detailed above. If employment ends for any other reason, the participant may be 
deemed a “good leaver” at the Committee’s discretion. In doing so it will take account of all relevant 
circumstances, in particular, the Group’s performance; the Executive Director’s performance and behaviour 
towards the Group during the performance cycle of the relevant awards, and a range of other relevant 
factors, including the proximity of the award to its maturity date. 
The rules of the DSP and LTIP also provide that in circumstances where awards vest, they do so at the 
normal vesting date, unless the Committee exercises discretion to vest awards earlier. Vested LTIP awards 
will remain subject to any post-vesting holding period unless the Committee exercises its discretion to allow 
for earlier release. 
Element 
Details 
Outside 
appointments 
Executive Directors may accept external Board appointments, subject to the Chair’s approval. Normally only 
one appointment to a listed company would be approved. Fees may be retained by the Executive Director. 
 
Consideration of circumstances for leavers 
The Committee will consider whether the overall value of any benefits accruing to a leaving Executive Director is fair 
and appropriate, taking account of all relevant circumstances. Examples of circumstances in which the Committee may 
be minded to award a cash bonus, DSP award and/or permit the vesting of LTIP and/or DSP awards include: 
• 
the Executive Director’s continued good performance up to and following the giving of notice; and, 
• 
the Executive Director accommodating the Company in the timing of his/her departure and handover 
arrangements. 
Conversely, the Committee may be minded not to allow such payments if the reason for the departure is (for 
example) due to poor performance or if the Executive Director does not continue to perform appropriately 
following notice. 
 
Remuneration of Non-Executive Directors and Chair 
Remuneration component 
and link to strategy 
Practical operation 
Maximum potential value 
Fees 
To attract a Chair and 
independent Non-
Executive Directors who, 
together with the 
Executive Directors, form 
a Board with a broad 
range of skills and 
experience. 
The Chair’s remuneration is determined by the Committee whilst 
that of the other Non-Executive Directors is determined by the 
Chair and the Executive Directors. These are determined in the 
light of: 
• 
fees of the Chair and Non-Executive Directors of other 
listed companies selected for comparator purposes, on 
the same basis as for Executive Directors; 
• 
the responsibilities and time commitment; and, 
• 
the need to attract and retain individuals with the 
necessary skills and experience. 
Non-Executive Directors’ fees may be paid in GBP or the 
currency of the location of the individual Non-Executive. Fees are 
reviewed annually and will typically be increased by up to the rate 
of increase awarded to the wider workforce. 
Non-Executive Directors receive an annual base fee. Additional 
annual fees are paid to the Senior Independent Director and Chair 
of any Board Committees. 
Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to participate in any 
pension or performance related remuneration arrangements. 
Overall aggregate fees paid 
to all Non-Executive 
Directors will remain within 
the limit as stated in the 
Company’s Articles 
(currently £1,000,000). 
Benefits: 
Reimbursed role-based 
expenses incurred during 
performance of the duties 
of the role. 
The Company will reimburse any reasonable travel and other 
business related expenses incurred (e.g. support with the 
completion of tax returns for international Non-Executive 
Directors) and the related tax thereon, if applicable. 
 
Travel allowance 
To recognise the 
additional time 
commitment associated 
with travel on Company 
business. 
Set by reference to anticipated travel times and allowances 
provided by FTSE 350 companies in similar circumstances.  
A travel allowance may be structured as appropriate from time 
to time, taking into account market practice, the location of the 
Non-Executive Director and travel commitments, including but 
not limited to an annual allowance, an allowance per meeting 
and different allowances payable for Non-Executive Directors 
based in different countries or continents. 
Where travel allowances are paid, these will be disclosed. 
 
 
The Chair’s notice period is six months whilst the other Non-Executive Directors have a notice period of one month. 
Further information on the service agreements of the Non-Executive Directors can be found on page 152 of the Annual 
Report and Accounts. 
Remuneration arrangements elsewhere in the Group  
Wider employee population 
In determining Executive Director remuneration, the Committee also takes into account the level of general pay 
increases within the Group. Employees are not directly consulted on the Policy, but there are a number of existing 
channels designed to capture the views of the workforce on remuneration, including the MyVoice forums. 
The Committee’s policy is that annual salary increases for Executive Directors should not exceed the average annual 
salary increase for the wider employee population unless there is a particular reason for a higher increase, such as a 
change in the nature or scope of responsibilities or if an Executive Director has been appointed at a salary below market 
level reflecting experience in the role. 
The Committee also considers external market benchmarking to inform executive remuneration decisions. External 
market benchmarking is also considered in relation to remuneration decisions of the wider workforce. 
Environmental, social and governance issues 
The Committee is able to consider corporate performance on environmental, social and governance issues when setting 
the remuneration of Executive Directors. Specific measures can be included in the strategic element of the annual 
bonus. The Committee is also able to consider these issues in determining whether to exercise its discretion to adjust 
formulaic outcomes of the annual bonus and LTIP. 
 
 
