Chapter 3
Project and Site Description
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 3: PROJECT AND SITE DESCRIPTION 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited   
 
AECOM 
3-1 
 
CONTENTS 
3. 
Project and Site Description .............................................................................. 2 
3.1 Introduction ............................................................................................... 2 
3.2 Changes since the 2014 PEIR (Phase 1 Consultation) ............................. 4 
3.3 Project Site and Surroundings ................................................................... 4 
3.4 Development Parameters and the ‘Rochdale Envelope’ ........................... 6 
3.5 Description of Gas Connection ................................................................ 13 
3.6 Description of Electrical Connection ........................................................ 14 
3.7 Construction and Site Preparation ........................................................... 14 
3.8 Commissioning and Completion .............................................................. 18 
3.9 Operation and Maintenance .................................................................... 19 
3.10 Decommissioning .................................................................................... 21 
3.11 Embedded Mitigation ............................................................................... 22 
3.12 References .............................................................................................. 31 
 
TABLES 
Table 3-1: Project Components .................................................................................. 2 
Table 3-2: Summary of Changes since the 2014 PEIR (Phase 1 Consultation) ......... 4 
Table 3-3: Parameters for Assessment .................................................................... 10 
 
APPENDICES  
Appendix 3.1: Outline Construction Environmental Management Plan 
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 3: PROJECT AND SITE DESCRIPTION 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited   
 
AECOM 
3-2 
 
3. 
Project and Site Description 
3.1 
Introduction 
3.1.1 
This chapter provides a description of the Project, the Project Site and of its 
surrounding environment. It also provides an overview of the likely construction 
methods, the approximate timescale over which various construction activities will 
take place and an overview of the operational and decommissioning phases of the 
Project.  
3.1.2 
Table 3-1 provides a summary of the Project Components and their consenting 
route. More detail of each element is provided in Section 3.4. 
Table 3-1:  Project Components 
Project 
Component 
Description 
Consenting Route 
Power 
Generation 
Plant 
An Open Cycle Gas Turbine (OCGT) 
peaking power generating station, fuelled 
by natural gas and capable of providing a 
rated electrical output of up to 299 
Megawatts (MW). The Power Generation 
Plant comprises: 
 
Generating Equipment including one 
Gas Turbine Generator with one 
exhaust gas flue stack and Balance 
of Plant (BOP) (together referred to 
as the ‘Generating Equipment’) which 
are located within the ‘Generating 
Equipment Site’ (see Section 3.4); 
 
An Access Road (see Figure 3.2) to 
the Project Site from the B4489 
which lies to the west, formed by 
upgrading an existing access road 
between the B4489 junction and the 
Swansea 
North 
Substation 
(the 
Substation) and constructing a new 
section of access road from the 
Substation 
to 
the 
Generating 
Equipment Site (see Section 3.4); 
and 
 
A temporary construction compound 
for the storage of materials, plant and 
equipment as well as containing site 
accommodation and welfare facilities, 
temporary car parking (see Section 
3.4) and temporary fencing (the 
Laydown Area, see Section 3.4). A 
Development Consent Order 
(DCO) 
through 
The 
Infrastructure 
Planning 
(Environmental 
Impact 
Assessment) 
Regulations 
2009 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 3: PROJECT AND SITE DESCRIPTION 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited   
 
AECOM 
3-3 
 
Project 
Component 
Description 
Consenting Route 
small area within the Laydown Area 
will be retained permanently (the 
Maintenance Compound). 
 
Ecological Mitigation Area – area for 
potential reptile translocation and 
ecological enhancement. Location 
and area to be confirmed post-
consultation once discussions with 
NRW 
and 
CCS 
have 
been 
undertaken. 
Area 
likely 
to 
be 
commensurate with the extent of 
mitigation required and within the 
Order Limits of the Project.  
 
Permanent parking and drainage to 
include: a site foul, oily water and 
surface water drainage system (see 
Section 3.4). 
Gas 
Connection 
The Gas Connection will be in the form of a 
new above ground installation (AGI) and 
underground gas connection (the Gas 
Pipeline). This is to bring natural gas to the 
Generating Equipment from the National 
Gas Transmission System. The Gas 
Pipeline will follow an approximate north-
south route corridor, between the National 
Gas Transmission System south of Rhyd-
y-pandy 
Road 
and 
the 
Generating 
Equipment Site (see Section 3.5).  
The Gas Connection will be 
consented through the Town 
and 
County 
Planning 
Act 
(TCPA) and is not part of the 
DCO Application. Though this 
Project element is not part of 
the DCO Application, APL is 
likely to seek powers of 
compulsory acquisition over 
the land required for the Gas 
Connection.  
Electrical 
Connection 
This is an underground electrical cable to 
export 
power 
from 
the 
Generating 
Equipment to the National Grid Electricity 
Transmission System (NETS) (see Section 
3.6). 
The Electrical Connection will 
be 
consented 
through 
Permitted Development and is 
not 
part 
of 
the 
DCO 
Application. 
Though 
this 
Project element is not part of 
the DCO Application, APL is 
likely to seek powers of 
compulsory acquisition over 
the land required for the 
Electrical Connection.  
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 3: PROJECT AND SITE DESCRIPTION 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited   
 
AECOM 
3-4 
 
3.2 
Changes since the 2014 PEIR (Phase 1 Consultation) 
3.2.1 
Since the 2014 PEIR there has been changes to the Project either as a result of the 
Project evolution and / or due to an update in environmental baseline information. 
Table 3-2 provides a summary of these changes to the Project since the 2014 
PEIR.  
3.2.2 
Within the Introduction section to each technical chapter, a short summary of any 
changes which have been undertaken has been included where necessary.  
Further detailed information on the design changes to the Project is included in 
Chapter 5: Alternatives Considered.  
Table 3-2: Summary of Changes since the 2014 PEIR (Phase 1 Consultation) 
Project Component 
Changes in design since the 2014 PEIR (Phase 1 
Consultation) 
Power Generation 
Plant 
 
The Power Generation Plant is now made up of only one 
Gas Turbine Generator with one exhaust gas flue stack, 
rather than up to five.  
 
The stack height is now a maximum of 45 m, instead of 40 
m.  
 
The Generating Equipment Site has now been moved north 
of the Welsh Water Main (Water Main).  
 
Selection of an access route from the B4489 to the west of 
the Generating Equipment instead of the alternative 
construction access route from the north; and  
 
There are now two onsite options for the new Access Road. 
Electrical Connection 
The Electrical Connection now runs alongside the road rather 
than under for ease of maintenance. 
3.3 
Project Site and Surroundings  
 The Project Site 
a)
3.3.1 
The Project Site (see Figure 1.1) is located on open agricultural land approximately 
2 km north of Junction  46 on the M4, approximately 3 km to the north of the city of 
Swansea, approximately 1 km southeast of Felindre and 1.4 km north of 
Llangyfelach. The current land use is predominantly agricultural, with sheep and 
horse grazing. The western extent of the Project Site encompasses parts of the 
Substation (comprising a 400 kV and 132 kV substation) and the existing access 
road leading to the Substation and Felindre Gas Compressor Station from the 
B4489. 
3.3.2 
The Power Generation Plant is accessed from Junction 46 of the M4 (see Figure 
12.1). From the M4 vehicles would travel north via the B4489, with the Power 
Generation Plant accessed from the west utilising the existing access road from the 
B4489 and then via a new Access Road to the south of the Felindre Gas 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 3: PROJECT AND SITE DESCRIPTION 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited   
 
AECOM 
3-5 
 
Compressor Station before crossing over agricultural land immediately west of the 
Project. 
3.3.3 
Ground levels at the Project Site vary from approximately 146 m above ordnance 
datum (AOD) at the highest point in the north-west corner at Rhyd-y-pandy Road to 
approximately 80 m AOD along the southern perimeter, with ground levels 
generally falling in a southerly and south easterly direction. The land within the 
Generating Equipment Site is at approximately 90 m AOD (see site levels on Figure 
3.1). 
3.3.4 
There are no residential dwellings located within the boundary of the Project Site. 
Most of the Project Site is improved grassland but there are areas of marshy 
grassland in the south eastern part of the Generating Equipment Site. There are 
parts of a Site of Importance for Nature Conservation (SINC) within the Project Site 
(Lletty Morfil SINC). A block of broadleaved woodland, classified as Ancient 
Woodland, and a SINC lie to the east. There are also further blocks of Ancient 
Woodland, also classified as SINCs, to the west surrounding the Substation, 
Felindre Gas Compressor Station and the existing access road leading to these 
facilities from the B4489.  
3.3.5 
Within the Project Site there are springs, with their associated streams and 
drainage ditches which discharge into the Afon Llan (see Figure 3.1). The Afon Llan 
links with the Afon Lliw and the River Loughor, which discharges into the Bristol 
Channel. There are no Main Rivers within the Project Site. 
3.3.6 
The Generating Equipment Site is located primarily within fields used for grazing, 
bounded by a mixture of drainage ditches, fencing and poor quality hedgerows with 
substantial gaps in them. The Generating Equipment Site and Laydown Area are 
both crossed by a soft surface horse training track known as ‘the gallops’ (Figure 
1.2), which runs diagonally north-west to south-east.  
 The Surrounding Area 
b)
3.3.7 
The area surrounding the Project Site is, at present, predominantly rural in 
character, although there the Felindre Park and Share facility to the south and a 
substantial amount of utility infrastructure in the area, some of which cross the 
Project Site (see Figure 3.4). Please refer to Table 4-6 which describes future 
development in the vicinity.  
3.3.8 
The National Gas Transmission System (see Figure 5.2), and a Water Main (see 
Figure 3.4), cross the Project Site and there is also a network of electricity pylons 
and overhead lines which lead to and from the Substation (see Figure 3.4). The 
Felindre Water Treatment Works is located to the northwest, while the Cefn 
Betingau Solar Park and Abergelli Solar Farm are located to the east of Project 
Site. A further two solar parks are built in the vicinity, Rhyd-y-pandy solar park and 
Abergelli Farm. All of these features have been considered in the design of the 
Project to ensure that they are safeguarded either through avoidance or minimal 
interaction. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 3: PROJECT AND SITE DESCRIPTION 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited   
 
AECOM 
3-6 
 
3.3.9 
Other features of the area include public footpaths, bridleways and tracks located in 
and around the Project Site (see Figure 3.3), linking it to the wider area. 
3.3.10 The closest residential dwellings to the Generating Equipment Site (Figure 1.1) are:  
 Abergelli Farmhouse approximately 620 m to the north of the Generating 
Equipment Site; 
 Llwynhelig approximately 590 m to the south east of the Generating Equipment 
Site; 
 Felin Wen Farm approximately 830 m to the east of the Generating Equipment 
Site; 
 Lletty Morfil Farm approximately 740 m to the west of the Generating Equipment 
Site; 
 Cefn betingau approximately 650 m to the north east of the Generating 
Equipment Site; and 
 Maes-eglwys approximately 440 m to the south of the Generating Equipment 
Site.  
3.3.11 The remains of Aber-gelli Colliery are located north of Abergelli Farmhouse. 
3.4 
Development Parameters and the ‘Rochdale Envelope’ 
3.4.1 
As a series of parameters have been built into the design of the Project, this PEIR 
has been prepared with reference to PINS Advice Note 9 (AN9) – ‘Using the 
Rochdale Envelope’. AN9 states that PINS understands that ‘…the ‘Rochdale 
Envelope’ is an acknowledged way of dealing with an application comprising EIA 
development where details of a project have not been resolved at the time when 
the application is submitted’. 
3.4.2 
In the case of this Project, it is considered that the DCO Application would be 
flexible enough using the Rochdale Envelope approach to allow the APL to 
construct and operate an electricity generating plant of up to 299 MW by building 
one Gas Turbine Generator with its own dedicated flue stack, which could be 
procured from a range of suppliers. 
3.4.3 
It is made clear in AN9 that an EIA must ‘...ensure that all the realistic and likely 
worst case variations of the project have been properly considered and clearly set 
out in the ES and as such that the likely significant impacts have been adequately 
assessed’. 
3.4.4 
To this end, where flexibility in parameters for the Project (such as the height of the 
stack) has been provided, APL has assessed the realistic worst case and it is made 
clear in each ‘topic’ assessment what this constitutes. 
 Overview 
a)
3.4.5 
The maximum area for the Generating Equipment Site would be approximately 
2.64 ha. Figure 3.2 shows an indicative illustration of the position and layout of the 
Generating Equipment with the Electrical Connection. The design would be 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 3: PROJECT AND SITE DESCRIPTION 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited   
 
AECOM 
3-7 
 
finalised in the event that a DCO is made by the SoS and the Gas Turbine 
Generator has been procured. The requirements of the DCO (similar to planning 
conditions) would control the detail of the final design and would require approval 
by the relevant planning authority at that time. In addition, embedded and additional 
mitigation would be inherent to the design. APL is therefore proposing to submit its 
application on the basis of a series of parameters for the Project which allows an 
assessment of the realistic worst case in accordance with the ‘Rochdale Envelope’ 
approach. 
3.4.6 
The nature and purpose of peaking plants such as that which is proposed for the 
Project is set out in paragraph 3.4.7 and the reason for selecting OCGT plant as 
the most appropriate technology choice is further described in Chapter 5: 
Alternatives Considered. The paragraphs below therefore describe the operation 
of OCGT plants in more detail.  
 Open Cycle Gas Turbine (OCGT) 
b)
3.4.7 
An ‘industrial’ type gas turbine would be used for the Project. This type of turbine 
has been selected as it is suited to generating up to 299 MW using only one unit, 
thereby reducing potential effects of noise, air quality and visual impacts. 
Additionally, they are suitable for frequent and fast start-ups, flexibility, and high-
availability maintenance techniques.   
3.4.8 
The main equipment in an OCGT is a Gas Turbine Generator, including the 
following components: 
 
Air inlet filter house; 
 
Air inlet duct; 
 
Exhaust diffuser; and 
 
Auxiliaries, including: 
o Lube oil system; 
o Air dryers; 
o Fuel gas filter package; 
o Instrument air system; 
o Compressor washing; and 
o A stack with an exhaust silencer would also be part of the OCGT.  
3.4.9 
On entering the gas turbine, air would be compressed and natural gas injected into 
the air. The air and natural gas mixture would then burn in the combustion chamber 
producing hot, high pressure gases. The gas would then expand across the blades 
of the gas turbine driving the compressor and the electrical generator to produce 
electricity. 
3.4.10 The waste gases and heat produced from this process would be released into the 
atmosphere via the stack. The stack would contain equipment which would reduce 
emissions released to the atmosphere, including a silencer. 
3.4.11 Further information on why the exhaust gases are emitted to the atmosphere and 
cannot be recovered is given in Chapter 5: Alternatives Considered and in a 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 3: PROJECT AND SITE DESCRIPTION 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited   
 
AECOM 
3-8 
 
separate Combined Heat and Power (CHP) statement to be provided in the DCO 
Application.  
3.4.12 An initial stack height sensitivity study has been undertaken for the Project to 
determine the minimum stack height for the Gas Turbine Generator required for 
adequate dispersion of emissions to meet legislative air quality targets. The 
findings of this initial study setting out the height parameters are in Table 3-3. 
3.4.13 Stack emissions would be continuously recorded to ensure correct and efficient 
operation of the Generating Equipment. Any significant deviations to emission limit 
values specified in the Environmental Permit required for the Project would be 
alarmed and corrections carried out on occurrence. Records of performance and 
deviation would be maintained. Full facilities for interfacing information, control and 
alarm systems would be installed so that the Generating Equipment can be 
operated from a central control room via a distributed control system (DCS). In the 
event of a fault in the Gas Turbine Generator or other major plant items, the 
Generating Equipment would shut down automatically in a controlled manner. 
3.4.14 Processed natural gas sourced from the National Gas Transmission System is a 
clean burning fuel and does not produce the levels of particulate or sulphur 
emissions associated with burning coal. Further discussion of emissions 
characteristics from the Generating Equipment is provided in Chapter 6: Air 
Quality, which sets out the findings of the air quality assessment. 
3.4.15 The Power Generation Plant consists of one Gas Turbine Generator and its 
associated single stack arrangement. Figure 3-1 shows a simple schematic of an 
OCGT operation. 
 
 
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 3: PROJECT AND SITE DESCRIPTION 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited   
 
AECOM 
3-9 
 
Figure 3-1: Schematic of OCGT Operation 
 
 
 Other Generating Equipment Plant Items 
c)
3.4.16 In addition to the Gas Turbine Generator at the Generating Equipment Site, the 
following plant and buildings would also be present: 
 
Raw / Fire Water Tank: The fire water storage tank would be designed to 
comply with the relevant fire regulations and would be installed together with 
fire pumps, hose reels, fire hydrants and portable extinguishers; 
 
Demineralised Water Tank: Required to store demineralised water for the 
Generating Equipment (used for e.g. blade washing); 
 
Control Room / office / workshop Building: Required in order to monitor the 
plant operation and house plant controls; 
 
Gatehouse: Needed to provide security and maintain a log of site attendance, 
deliveries etc.; 
 
Transformer Compound: Required to connect the electrical infrastructure from 
the Generating Equipment to transformers before export to the Substation 
which is part of the NETS, This would also include a generator step-up 
transformer, unit and other transformers, an overhead line gantry and 
associated equipment; 
 
Natural Gas Receiving Station: Required to ensure that gas coming from the 
National Gas Transmission System feeds into the Generating Equipment Site 
at the right flow and pressure conditions. This would include a compression 
station, emergency generator, Joule-Thompson boilers and auxiliary control 
cabinets;  
 
Fin-Fan Coolers to provide cooling to the Generating Equipment; 
 
Telemetry apparatus including electrical cabinets; and 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 3: PROJECT AND SITE DESCRIPTION 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited   
 
AECOM 
3-10 
 
 
Emergency Generator: A small diesel fired generator to provide power for the 
safe shutdown of the Gas Turbine Generator and running of essential security 
systems in emergency situations. 
3.4.17 Table 3-3 provides indicative maximum and minimum dimensions for the main plant 
items which will be present at the Generating Equipment Site and the EIA has been 
prepared using these parameters following a ‘Rochdale Envelope’ approach, as 
described at the start of this section. The ground level at the Generating Equipment 
Site will be approximately 90 m AOD and the heights in the Table 3-3 are measured 
from this level. 
Table 3-3: Parameters for Assessment  
Building or Structure 
Maximum 
Height (m) 
Minimum 
Height (m) 
Maximum 
Length (m) 
Maximum 
Width (m) 
Gas 
Turbine 
Generator 
(including 
gas 
turbine, 
generator, air inlet filter house, 
air inlet duct, exhaust diffuser, 
and auxiliaries such as lube oil 
system, air dryers, fuel gas 
filter package, instrument air 
system, compressor washing)   
27 
- 
50 
40 
Exhaust 
gas 
emission 
flue 
stack  
45 
35 
- 
12 
Control room/office/ workshop  
7 
- 
45 
25 
Emergency Generator 
6 
- 
13 
5 
Gas receiving station (including 
compression 
station, 
emergency generator, Joule-
Thompson boilers and other 
auxiliary control cabinets))  
10 
- 
70 
50 
Gatehouse  
4.5 
- 
9 
8 
Demineralised water tank  
5 
- 
5 
5 
Fire water tank  
15 
- 
15 
15 
Above ground installation (AGI)  
3 
- 
85 
35 
Minimum 
offtake 
connection 
(MOC)  
3 
- 
35 
35 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 3: PROJECT AND SITE DESCRIPTION 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited   
 
AECOM 
3-11 
 
Building or Structure 
Maximum 
Height (m) 
Minimum 
Height (m) 
Maximum 
Length (m) 
Maximum 
Width (m) 
Gas Pipeline inspection gauge 
facility  
3 
- 
35 
35 
Fin Fan Coolers  
10 
28 
- 
14 
Transformer 
compound 
(including generator step up 
transformer, unit and other 
transformers, 
connection 
to 
underground 
cable 
and 
associated equipment.) 
15 
- 
65 
60 
 Access  
d)
3.4.18 An Access Road to the Generating Equipment Site from the B4489 will be formed 
by upgrading an existing access road between the B4489 junction and the 
Substation and constructing a new Access Road from the Substation to the 
Generating Equipment Site. 
3.4.19 The existing access road between the B4489 junction and the Substation will be 
upgraded and potentially widened to accommodation passing places. The location 
and design of these improvements is currently under review, and will be confirmed 
in the submitted ES to accompany the DCO application. APL intends to consult on 
these improvements with the relevant landowners, users and interested parties as 
this design progresses.  
3.4.20 In addition, two access options are being currently considered for the new Access 
Road between the Substation and Generating Equipment Site.  
 Option A: This option was originally shown within the 2014 PEIR, and extends 
south from the car park adjacent to the Felindre Gas Compressor Station down a 
grassed embankment towards open fields and then north-eastwards towards the 
Generating Equipment Site.  
 Option B: This option has identified an alternative which begins before the 
original spur at the car park adjacent to the Felindre Gas Compressor Station and 
again extends southward towards open fields but with a more gentle angle of 
approach, visibility and descent towards the open fields. This would also avoid an 
element of cut and fill, although some excavation is still likely.  
3.4.21 Investigation is ongoing on the viability of both options for the new Access Road 
from the Substation to the Generating Equipment Site and therefore both are 
included within the Project Site boundary provided at this stage. APL intends to 
gain comments from interested parties and landowners in this regard and confirm 
the finalised option within the submitted ES at DCO Application. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 3: PROJECT AND SITE DESCRIPTION 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited   
 
AECOM 
3-12 
 
3.4.22 Should Option A be chosen, the National Grid car park will be affected and 
therefore reinstated in an alternative location. If Option B is chosen, the existing car 
park is not affected and will remain in situ.   
 Laydown Area 
e)
3.4.23 A temporary Laydown Area during construction will be provided for the storage of 
materials, plant and equipment as well as containing site accommodation and 
welfare facilities, temporary car parking and temporary fencing. The Laydown Area 
will be provided adjacent to the Generating Equipment Site as shown in Figure 3.2. 
A small permanent area within the Laydown Area is required for maintenance 
during the operational phase of the Project. 
 
Car Parking 
f)
3.4.24 During construction adequate car parking would be provided within the Laydown 
Area. During operation car parking for operational and maintenance staff would be 
provided within the Generating Equipment Site. The Project will take into account 
CCS’s policy on parking standards during the operational phase of the Project and 
implement sustainable transport methods where possible.  
 Ecological Mitigation Area 
g)
3.4.25 An area has been set aside within the Project Site boundary if ecological mitigation 
is required. The location and area are to be confirmed following Phase 2 statutory 
consultation once discussions with NRW and CCS have been undertaken. The 
area is likely to be commensurate with the extent of mitigation required and within 
the Order Limits of the Project. 
 Lighting and Security Fencing 
h)
3.4.26 Lighting columns would be erected around the perimeter of the Generating 
Equipment in order to provide security lighting and lighting for safe working in dark 
conditions. The lighting columns would be approximately 8 m in height and 
regularly spaced around the perimeter of the Generating Equipment Site.  
 
Carbon Capture Readiness (CCR) and Carbon Capture and Storage  
i)
3.4.27 On the basis that the Project's maximum rated electrical output would be 299 MW, 
the Project would be below the threshold set out in Directive 2009/31/EC29 on the 
geological storage of carbon dioxide and NPS EN-1 and EN-2 for when operators 
of combustion plants are required to have assessed the feasibility of: a storage site, 
transport facilities and economic considerations of the capture of carbon dioxide 
(CO2) (e.g. CCR for Carbon Capture and Storage) produced as a result of the 
combustion process. Therefore, it is not considered necessary to assess the 
viability of CO2 capture or include it further in this ES. 
3.4.28 It is noted that the Project consented by the DCO must have a “rated electrical 
output” of, or less than, 299 MWe and that APL intends to procure a generating 
station with a rated electrical output of no more than 299 MWe measured at the 
terminals of the Generating Equipment.  
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 3: PROJECT AND SITE DESCRIPTION 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited   
 
AECOM 
3-13 
 
3.4.29 APL will be required to demonstrate that it would not be possible for the operating 
plant to exceed 299 MWe, in order to comply with the IED that requires all new 
combustion plants with a rated electrical output of 300 MW or more to have met a 
number of conditions and ensured space is available for carbon capture and 
storage. 
 
Drainage 
j)
3.4.30 The Project will require a site foul water drainage system, and an oily water 
drainage system. A surface water drainage system will also be required to 
adequately drain the site and prevent ponding.  
3.4.31 To prevent inundation of the Project Site from surface runoff, cut off drainage 
ditches will be placed around the uphill site perimeter. Further details can be found 
in Section 3.11 and Chapter 9: Water Quality and Resources. 
3.5 
Description of Gas Connection 
3.5.1 
The Gas Connection would comprise all the necessary elements to enable gas to 
be imported to the Generating Equipment at a suitable rate and pressure to 
produce up to 299 MW, including a Gas Pipeline, AGI and Gas Receiving Station.  
3.5.2 
The Gas Connection will be in the form of a new AGI and underground Gas 
Pipeline, which is required in order to connect the Generating Equipment to the 
existing National Gas Transmission System so as to provide a reliable supply of 
fuel. 
3.5.3 
Connection of the Gas Pipeline to the National Gas Transmission System will 
require an AGI to be installed which will comprise: a Minimum Offtake Connection 
(MOC) facility, which will be owned by National Grid; and a Pipeline Inspection 
Gauge (PIG) Trap Facility (PTF) which will be owned by APL. 
3.5.4 
Termination of the Gas Connection will be at a second PTF located on the 
Generating Equipment Site. A further facility known as the Gas Receiving Station 
(GRS) will be situated downstream of the PTF within the Generating Equipment 
Site.  
3.5.5 
The AGI (both the MOC and PTF) will be located at the northern end of the Project 
Site, on the southern side of the Rhyd-y-pandy Road leading to Felindre. Once 
complete, maintenance access for the AGI will be from the Rhyd-y-pandy Road via 
a short, purpose built tarmacadam access track. The Gas Connection will then 
follow a route corridor shown on Figure 3.2 running in southerly direction to the 
Generating Equipment Site. It will be approximately 1.4 km in length. It will cross 
the National Gas Transmission System in two locations, a Public Right of Way 
(LC35B) in one location, two private farm tracks (see Figure 3.3) and one ditch 
(field drain). 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 3: PROJECT AND SITE DESCRIPTION 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited   
 
AECOM 
3-14 
 
3.6 
Description of Electrical Connection 
3.6.1 
The Electrical Connection will comprise all the necessary elements to enable power 
to be exported from the Generating Equipment to the NETS. The connection will be 
approximately 900 m in length. It will consist of a 400kV underground cable to the 
Substation and associated works inside the Substation to connect to a gas-
insulated switchgear (GIS) bay. The GIS bay will be consented by National Grid 
and owned, maintained and operated by APL, while National Grid will extend the 
existing Substation building at the eastern end of the Substation to house the GIS 
bay (the extension of the Substation building is included in the projects considered 
in the cumulative assessment as described in Section 4.7). 
3.6.2 
The Electrical Connection route (see Figure 3.2) leaves the Generating Equipment 
Site passing through open land to the east and south-east of the National Grid Gas 
Transmission System. The route crosses into National Grid’s land to the east of 
tower 4YW251 heading towards the Substation. Once within National Grid’s land 
the Electrical Connection turns to the north-west to run outside the Substation and 
parallel with the Substation fence line. The Electrical Connection then turns into the 
Substation close to the northern corner.  
3.6.3 
The route passes twice under one 400 kV overhead lattice tower mounted 
transmission line and once under one wooden pole mounted 11 kV overhead 
distribution line. The route crosses two ditches and a Local Transmission System 
pipeline within the field to the east of tower 4YW251. 
3.6.4 
The Electrical Connection route coincides with the Access Road for approximately 
500 m of the route length. 
3.6.5 
The Electrical Connection will be drilled (for example using drilling techniques such 
as Horizontal Directional Drill (HDD)) under the Water Main with at least 2 m 
clearance from the underside of the Water Main. Though the route corridor of the 
Water Main is defined, the depth and exact location is unknown and is currently 
under investigation. Further consultation with Welsh Water will be undertaken as 
those investigations continue.   
3.7 
Construction and Site Preparation 
 Overview 
a)
3.7.1 
Construction and commissioning of the Project would take approximately 22 
months with an anticipated starting date in 2020. Typical construction activities and 
construction assumptions are described in this section and have been used in 
undertaking the assessment. 
3.7.2 
The main works associated with the construction phase will be excavation and site 
levelling for new foundations, piling (if required) and the laying of the Gas and 
Electrical Connections, as well as erection of the Generating Equipment.  
 
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 3: PROJECT AND SITE DESCRIPTION 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited   
 
AECOM 
3-15 
 
 Commencement and Site Preparation 
b)
3.7.3 
Once a DCO has been granted and the relevant pre-commencement Requirements 
discharged, work can start on the Project Site. 
3.7.4 
An Outline Construction Environmental Management Plan (see Outline CEMP in 
Appendix 3.1) will be developed and contain the relevant topic specific 
management plans on health and safety and environmental management. 
3.7.5 
The Project Site will be surveyed to mark out with pegs the boundaries and key 
features and to fix the equipment centrelines according to approved planning and 
engineering drawings. 
3.7.6 
The Access Road will cross over the Water Main and National Gas Transmission 
System (see Figure 3.4). Construction details to be confirmed within the final ES. 
There will be temporary bridges over the Water Main and National Gas 
Transmission System during construction. Method statements for working in 
proximity to the Water Main and National Gas Transmission System will be agreed. 
3.7.7 
Water courses and ditches will be diverted around the Generating Equipment Site, 
with silt traps, straw bale filters and attenuation pond formed for any surface water 
outlet from the Generating Equipment Site. Water from the attenuation ponds will 
be discharged in a controlled manner to the Afon Llan. 
3.7.8 
The new Access Road will be excavated and formed by placing and rolling stone 
with macadam base course from the B4489 up to the Generating Equipment Site to 
allow clean vehicle access. A wheel cleaning system will be installed where 
vehicles leave the construction site and before reaching the existing section of the 
Access Road. The Access Road will have a tarmacadam surface. 
3.7.9 
The perimeter of the Generating Equipment Site will be cleared of undergrowth and 
a permanent or temporary security fence placed with locked gates for main and 
emergency exits (capable of being opened in an emergency). A security cabin will 
be established to provide accommodation for security personnel to be on site 
during construction 24 hours, seven days a week. 
3.7.10 The Laydown Area will be cleared and surfaced with stone, and site cabins placed 
with offices, first aid, changing rooms, mess facilities with temporary sewage 
system and parking for cars and machinery. 
3.7.11 Additional geotechnical investigations will be carried out to confirm details of 
ground properties for optimisation of foundation design. 
3.7.12 Vertical drainage is established and then underground services are excavated and 
placed. 
 Foundations and Piling 
c)
3.7.13 The need for piling will be determined following ground investigation works prior to 
construction. However, it has been assumed as part of the realistic worst case 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 3: PROJECT AND SITE DESCRIPTION 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited   
 
AECOM 
3-16 
 
scenario for certain environmental topics that piling will be required for the 
purposes of this assessment.  
3.7.14 The main foundation building column bases for heavier structures (e.g. Gas Turbine 
Generator, water tanks and transformers) will be excavated to firm ground, the 
base rolled, blinding concrete placed, and pile caps cropped before fixing meshes 
of reinforcing steel. Timber shuttering boxes will then be placed, holding down bolts 
fixed, and concrete poured and finished for each base. 
3.7.15 Shallow foundations for lighter buildings and bases will be excavated to firm 
ground, the base rolled, blinding concrete placed, before fixing meshes of 
reinforcing steel. Timber shuttering boxes will then be placed, holding down bolts 
fixed, and concrete poured and finished for each base. 
3.7.16 Piling will be carried out using rotary driven piles in high load areas of the 
Generating Equipment Site such as plant and building column foundations. This 
technique will minimise disturbance of nearby sensitive ecological receptors. 
Shallow foundations for lighter buildings will be excavated. 
3.7.17 The ground will be backfilled between foundations and floor slabs will be cast with 
polished finish with spoil from excavations. 
 Access and Traffic 
d)
3.7.18 Site roads are excavated, rolled with stone, and a base coarse of tarmacadam 
placed. This greatly aids the cleanliness of the Project Site during construction. 
3.7.19 It is estimated that the construction and decommissioning phases will each result in 
a maximum of approximately 209 vehicle trips (two way) per day. This will include 
around 146 HGV deliveries (two way) per day during the peak construction and 
decommissioning periods. 
3.7.20 The construction phase is anticipated to take 22 months with the peak of HGV 
deliveries occurring during the first quarter of construction (months 1 to 3) and the 
peak car and van trips occurring during the fifth quarter of construction (months 12 
to 14). The car or van trips would be mainly at the start and end of the working day 
whilst HGV trips would be spread across the day outside of peak times (see 
Chapter 12: Traffic, Transport and Access). 
3.7.21 The majority of embedded mitigation measures are set out in the Outline CEMP 
(Appendix 3.1) as set out at the end of this chapter. 
 Buildings 
e)
3.7.22 Factory finish painted building steelwork, columns, frames and roof trusses will be 
delivered and erected on to the cured foundations. 
3.7.23 Liner sheet cladding will be fixed to building frames, insulation blanket attached and 
outer cladding fixed to walls and roof. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 3: PROJECT AND SITE DESCRIPTION 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited   
 
AECOM 
3-17 
 
3.7.24 Windows, personnel and roller shutter equipment doors will be fitted to make 
buildings weather tight. 
3.7.25 Block work internal walls will be erected where buildings are divided. All buildings 
will be fitted out with electrical systems, plumbing and drainage. 
3.7.26 Cable draw pits and duct banks around the site would be excavated and cast. 
 
Generating Plant Installation 
f)
3.7.27 The gas turbine and generator package with auxiliary equipment skid would be 
delivered to the Project Site and placed over completed foundations with initial 
alignment. 
3.7.28 Prefabricated interconnecting piping spools and ducting would be fitted to the gas 
turbine and generator package to interconnect its auxiliaries. 
3.7.29 Fuel handling equipment skids would be placed and interconnecting piping made 
up. 
3.7.30 Electrical Switchgear is installed and cables pulled through prepared ducts to 
interconnect systems. 
 Gas Connection  
g)
3.7.31 The Gas Connection includes both the Gas Pipeline together with its connection 
with the AGI. The route for the actual Gas Pipeline will be marked out, topsoil 
stripped and moved to one side and the trench excavated. The exact construction 
method for the Gas Pipeline will be subject to further survey and dependant on the 
National Gas Transmission System depth and ground conditions.  
3.7.32 The Gas Pipeline will be delivered to the Project Site in spools and laid out along 
the route before welding into a string. The sections of pipe would then be lowered 
into the trench using side arm booms and backfilled for testing. Where the Gas 
Pipeline route crosses the National Gas Transmission System, an appropriate 
method of crossing will be undertaken which affords the appropriate level of 
protection to the National Gas Transmission System at its existing depth. This may 
include open cut techniques or a trenchless crossing such as horizontal directional 
drilling. 
3.7.33 Following the laying of the Gas Pipeline, the excavated material and topsoil will be 
returned to its original position. The surface will then be seeded to restore it to its 
original state. 
3.7.34 Gas systems skids will be placed and piping connected before commissioning the 
Gas Pipeline, pressure regulators and metering. 
3.7.35 The Gas Connection and Electrical Connection will cross an existing Public Right of 
Way (PRoW) as shown on Figure 3.3. During construction, the PRoW will likely be 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 3: PROJECT AND SITE DESCRIPTION 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited   
 
AECOM 
3-18 
 
stopped up temporarily during certain elements of construction phase works to 
maintain public access and safety. 
 Electrical Connection 
h)
3.7.36 The Electrical Connection will be constructed within the curtilage of the Access 
Road within a 5 m working width adjacent to the road. A cable duct will be installed 
adjacent to the Access Road to allow the cable to be pulled through at a later date. 
Short sections of open cut trench will be required at either end of the cable route 
where it does not coincide with the Access Road. The installation of the cable within 
the Substation is anticipated to be in cable ducts, although National Grid has 
recently started using direct buried cables within the Substation. 
3.7.37 As described in Section 3.6, the Electrical Connection will require temporary 
bridges over the Water Main during the construction phase to enable access from 
the new Access Road and Laydown Area. Final construction methods and type of 
bridges will be confirmed in the final ES once further investigations in to the location 
and depth of the Water Main is confirmed so that the level of protection required 
can be designed and agreed with Welsh Water Dwr Cymru. 
3.8 
Commissioning and Completion 
 
Generating Plant 
a)
3.8.1 
All mechanical systems will be cold commissioned once alignment or rotating parts 
and pressure test of enclosed systems has been completed. 
3.8.2 
Electrical systems will be checked, commissioned and energised stage by stage. 
3.8.3 
The Gas Turbine Generator system will be checked and cold commissioned 
together with control room and National Grid communications. 
3.8.4 
When all systems are energised and cold commissioned, the gas turbine will be 
started and ‘first fired’. The turbine is run to full speed before synchronising to the 
grid and producing electrical energy in increasing load steps. 
3.8.5 
Grid Code compliance tests will be carried out as well as performance, noise and 
emissions tests. 
3.8.6 
All buildings will be completed, with sealing, painting, floor finishes and decoration. 
3.8.7 
All areas of the plant and buildings will be surveyed for outstanding work and minor 
defects and a programme established to complete these. 
3.8.8 
The base course at the side of each site road will be cut back to the final width and 
kerbs will be placed before the final wearing course of macadam is placed. Road 
marking and signs will be added. 
3.8.9 
Lighting will be installed in accordance with the Outline Lighting Strategy to be 
submitted within the DCO Application. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 3: PROJECT AND SITE DESCRIPTION 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited   
 
AECOM 
3-19 
 
3.8.10 Areas surrounding and between the Generating Equipment will be levelled and 
crushed stone placed. Stored topsoil is placed in areas free from Generating 
Equipment, including the temporary site laydown areas. An indicative Outline 
Landscaping Strategy is included in Figure 11.10.  
3.8.11 The estimated excavation volume for ground works and site levelling is 
approximately 19,000 m3. 
3.9 
Operation and Maintenance 
 
Generating Plant 
a)
3.9.1 
For the purpose of EIA it has been assumed that the Generating Equipment will be 
designed to have a minimum operational life of 25 years, and that after its 
operational life it will be decommissioned and this scenario has been assessed in 
this PEIR. However, it should be noted that it is common for power stations to run 
safely for a much longer period than 25 years. It does not make a material 
difference to the assessment how long the operational life is in practice. A decision 
as to whether the Project is decommissioned or 're-powered' (depending on the 
condition of the electricity market and energy mix) would be made at the 
appropriate time. 
3.9.2 
The plant is expected to operate for up to 2,250 hours per year and 1,500 running 
hours rolling average over 5 years, supporting National Grid during periods of peak 
demand and system stress. The plant will have fast start up, response and ramping 
capability in order to meet the demand profile and compensate for the intermittency 
of certain forms of renewable power generation connected to the grid. 
3.9.3 
Sufficient spares would be held to ensure reliable operation of the Generating 
Equipment. Materials and finishes would be selected to ensure that the appearance 
of the Generating Equipment does not deteriorate with time. Periodic and routine 
maintenance would take place, on average, once every six months, to ensure 
optimal operation of the Generating Equipment at all times. 
3.9.4 
The Generating Equipment would benefit from on line monitoring and operational 
diagnosis to identify maintenance needs according to lifecycle use. 
3.9.5 
The permanent maintenance compound would be used to store/transfer spare 
parts should any need to be replaced during maintenance/repair. The maintenance 
compound would also be used periodically during operation for any maintenance 
activities that require movement of large plant items. 
3.9.6 
Materials and finishes would be selected to ensure that the appearance of the 
Power Generation Plant does not deteriorate with time. Periodic and routine 
maintenance would take place on average once yearly. Typically, planned 
maintenance would be carried out by one or two skilled personnel.  
3.9.7 
Inspections to replace or refurbish combustion and turbine hot parts equipment are 
typically carried out approximately every six years. For industrial gas turbines, this 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 3: PROJECT AND SITE DESCRIPTION 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited   
 
AECOM 
3-20 
 
work can be done on site using a mobile crane and hand tools. The shutdown 
duration is typically 15-20 days. 
3.9.8 
A gas turbine with dry low NOx combustion will be used. This will avoid the 
requirement for large amounts of demineralised water for emissions control. Water 
will be transported to the Project Site by water tankers for multiple uses including 
compressor washing in the Gas Turbine Generator and for servicing welfare 
facilities including potable water and hygiene consumption. Water for the gas 
turbine compressor washing will be demineralised. Demineralised water tankers will 
attend site approximately once a month to maintain a store of demineralised water. 
Typical quality requirements are for conductivity to be lower than 0.2 µS/cm, but 
vary with gas turbine supplier. After use, the compressor wash water is taken by 
tanker from site for licensed disposal. 
3.9.9 
In the event of an unscheduled issue with the Generating Equipment, alarms would 
signal to the control room instances where there are issues with abnormal 
operation. These alarms would not be audible externally. The plant would be shut 
down immediately in such instances and an engineer would attend site. The 
Generating Equipment would not start up again until the issue had been resolved. 
Alarms would only be audible outside where there was an event affecting personnel 
safety such as a fire alarm.  
3.9.10 Whilst any significant mode shift away from the private car is unlikely for the Project 
- there are likely to be only a maximum of five workers on site at the same time - a 
Travel Plan will be created specifically targeting employees to decrease the number 
of vehicles accessing the Project. A range of non-car Initiatives would be 
implemented to encourage the use of alternative modes of travel to the private car. 
 Indicative Gas Connection Maintenance Activities 
b)
3.9.11 The Gas Connection would remain operational for the entire lifetime of the Power 
Generation Plant. No parts of the Gas Connection would be manned. Telemetry 
apparatus (both within the Gas Pipeline trench and at the AGI) would report back 
any issues to a central control room. Should any issues be identified, the Gas 
Pipeline would be isolated and the supply switched off, pending investigation of any 
faults. Access to the AGI during maintenance / repair would be via a new 
permanent access off Rhyd-y-pandy Road. 
3.9.12 The primary maintenance and inspection activities would be as follows: 
 Visual checks; 
 In-line inspection; 
 Cathodic protection checks; and 
 Valve operation checks. 
 Indicative Electrical Connection Maintenance Activities 
c)
3.9.13 No regular maintenance is anticipated to be carried out on the underground 
electrical cable. Maintenance of the electrical cable will be limited to repair in the 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 3: PROJECT AND SITE DESCRIPTION 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited   
 
AECOM 
3-21 
 
event of a fault in the cable, in which case the cable will be isolated for repair in line 
with industry good practice. 
3.9.14 The electrical equipment would be subject to periodic inspection. To perform such 
inspections, pedestrian access is adequate.  
3.9.15 The route would be regularly checked to ensure that there are no excavation or 
construction works in the direct vicinity of the cables, that mounds of soil are not 
deposited above the cables and that trees are not planted above the cables; this 
should normally require little more than a drive past. 
3.9.16 In addition, periodic inspection of any above ground equipment associated with the 
cable system would be required. The above ground equipment would include cable 
terminations, and structures, and bonding system link housings; this would require 
access to the equipment. In some case dirt and debris can deposit on cable 
termination insulators which may therefore require cleaning. It is also 
recommended that the integrity of the cable oversheath be tested at least once 
every two to three years; this would require access to the cable terminations and 
the bonding system link housings. In the event that the oversheath is found 
degraded or damaged then a repair may be required which would necessitate 
some excavation along the cable route (in most cases, oversheath damage results 
from the actions of third parties). 
3.10 
Decommissioning 
3.10.1 For the purpose of the EIA and in order to allow a decommissioning assessment to 
be presented in this PEIR, assumed working assumption has been used that the 
Project has an operational lifetime of 25 years. However, it should be noted that it is 
common for power stations to run for a much longer period than 25 years. In the 
case of the Project, a decision would be made at the appropriate time as to whether 
it would be ‘re-powered’ after 25 years (depending on the condition of plant items 
and the electricity market at the time). As such, the working assumption has been 
made for the purposes of this assessment that after 25 years, the Generating 
Equipment would be removed and the Generating Equipment Site re-instated to a 
similar condition as before construction. Any decommissioning phase would be 
likely to be of a similar duration to construction i.e. 22 months.  
3.10.2 Again, a working assumption has been used that the Electrical Connection and 
Gas Connection would be decommissioned after 25 years. However, it is important 
to note that elements of both Connections would be owned and operated by 
National Grid. In accordance with its statutory duties, National Grid may use these 
assets in the future as part of its wider network. As such, the date of any 
decommissioning cannot be certain and the 25 years working assumption has been 
used simply to allow for an assessment of decommissioning effects in this PEIR. In 
addition, elements of the Gas Connection and Electrical Connection may be left in 
situ as this is likely to cause less environmental effects than removal. This would be 
the case for the Gas Pipeline, for example. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 3: PROJECT AND SITE DESCRIPTION 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited   
 
AECOM 
3-22 
 
3.11 
Embedded Mitigation 
3.11.1 Mitigation which is either implicit in the design of the Project or its construction and 
operation through standard control measures routinely used, such as working 
within best practice guidance during construction, is known as embedded 
mitigation. This embedded mitigation has been assumed for the purposes of this 
PEIR to be in place from the outset. This PEIR has therefore assessed the likely 
significant effects of the Project including embedded mitigation. The following 
section describes the measures which are considered to be embedded mitigation 
for the purposes of the assessment. Where not already an inherent part of the 
design of the Project, such embedded mitigation is secured by the DCO and its 
Requirements. 
3.11.2 A CEMP will be prepared and then implemented during construction to mitigate any 
adverse environmental effects. An Outline CEMP for the Project is provided at 
Appendix 3.1 of this PEIR for consultation. It includes measures relating to the 
environmental topics assessed in this PEIR which will mitigate the effects of 
construction. The CEMP will be finalised and followed by the Contractor on site, 
once the content has been agreed with CCS. The finalised CEMP will include the 
following information: 
 
Community liaison; 
 
Nuisance management including measures to avoid or minimise the impacts of 
construction works (covering dust, noise, vibration and lighting); 
 
Site waste and materials management measures; 
 
Surface and ground water protection measures; 
 
Pollution control measures; 
 
Peat management measures as required; 
 
Landscape and visual impact mitigation (such as retention of existing trees and 
minimising visual intrusion of construction works); 
 
Security measures; a protocol in the event that unexpected contaminated land 
is identified during ground investigation or construction; 
 
A protocol for the restoration of land which is temporarily used for construction 
following the date of final commissioning; 
 
Environmental training requirements; and 
 
Ecological mitigation measures including avoidance of sensitive features. 
 Drainage  
a)
i. 
Construction 
3.11.3 The Project incorporates welfare facilities which will require a site foul water 
drainage system. The Project Site is remote and it is believed it will be unfeasible to 
connect to a public sewer. Therefore, a foul water drainage system will either drain 
to a septic tank or a package treatment plant within the Project Site but outside any 
area at risk of flooding. It is likely that the latter would be the preferred option for 
ease of maintenance and environmental criteria. The processed water would then 
discharge on site or to a nearby watercourse. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 3: PROJECT AND SITE DESCRIPTION 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited   
 
AECOM 
3-23 
 
3.11.4 An oily water drainage system will be required to receive surface water from 
potentially contaminated oil retaining areas and prevent contaminated water 
discharging from site. Oily water drainage shall be designed in accordance with 
National Grid Technical Specification 2.20 ‘Oil Containment at Electricity 
Substations and Other Operational Sites’ (Ref 3.1) or similar approved guidelines.  
3.11.5 The surface water drainage system will be required to adequately drain the Project 
Site and prevent ponding. The surface water drainage system will adopt the 
principles of the SuDS Manual – Ciria C753. – Updated SuDS Manual reference 
2015 (Ref 3.2). 
3.11.6 To prevent inundation of the Project Site from surface runoff cut off drainage 
ditches will be placed around the uphill site perimeter. These new drainage ditches 
will be designed to carry the surface runoff around the Project Site and downstream 
back to the original drainage ditches/watercourses. 
3.11.7 Where possible, the new levels and surfacing will be designed so they naturally 
drain by infiltration into the surrounding ground. Where this is not economically 
possible or presents an unsatisfactory risk of flooding, infiltration drains will be 
installed. All infiltration drains will connect to the surface water drainage system.  
3.11.8 It is not expected that it will be possible to connect the surface water drainage 
system to an infiltration basin due to the presumed predominantly clayey ground 
and high groundwater level in places. This will be confirmed when the Ground 
Investigation surveys are carried out. Instead the discharged flow of water at the 
Generating Equipment Site boundary from the surface water drainage system will 
be attenuated in order to maintain the equivalent greenfield runoff flow for a range 
of events up to the 1 in 100 year event (with climate change allowance). The flow 
will be attenuated using suitably sized attenuation ponds with restricted discharge 
pipes to the existing greenfield runoff rates. An emergency overflow will be provided 
to the attenuation ponds to prevent site flooding in the event of an extreme rainfall 
event. 
3.11.9 Where possible, roadside swales and infiltration drains will be used to remove and 
convey any standing water into the surface water drainage system from internal 
roads within the Project Site including the new Access Road. Where there are 
space constraints, or there is an elevated risk of contamination, the new site roads 
will be kerbed and drain via road gullies with pollution control measures. It is 
expected that roadside swales will discharge to nearby local watercourses at the 
existing greenfield runoff rate.  
3.11.10 Existing field drainage that will cross the new Access Road will be culverted or 
bridged for a short length to allow flow up to the 1 in 100 year return period.  
 Air Quality 
b)
i. 
Construction 
3.11.11 The CEMP will include standard good practice dust mitigation measures, as set out 
in the Outline CEMP in Appendix 3.1. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 3: PROJECT AND SITE DESCRIPTION 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited   
 
AECOM 
3-24 
 
3.11.12 Daily visual inspections of dust emissions will be made in conjunction with dust 
emissions monitoring at locations to be agreed with NRW. If plumes of dust are 
visible, behind moving vehicles for example, or dust was visibly deposited on roads 
outside of the Project Site, more vigorous control measure may be required. 
3.11.13 Institute of Air Quality Managers (IAQM) guidance on monitoring air quality at 
construction sites (Ref 3.3) recommends that, in addition to visual inspections, 
ambient air monitoring is undertaken in the vicinity of high risk sites. This data is 
required for two reasons: the first relates to ensuring that mitigation measures are 
appropriate and being applied rigorously; the second is to provide early warning of 
increased dust emissions which allows for the cessation or modification of activities 
prior to impacts occurring. 
3.11.14 Monitoring will be undertaken in the vicinity of the Lletty Morfil SINC. Since the risk 
for ecosystems relates to dust deposition, a real time monitor for total suspended 
particulate matter will be installed but this needs be an ‘indicative instrument’ only. 
Trigger levels for the instrument, which would suggest increasing risk/emissions, 
should be agreed with NRW prior to the commencement of construction. The 
monitoring stations will be mobile and would be moved around the Project Site as 
the principal activities move. 
ii. Operation 
3.11.15 The Generating Equipment will be designed to comply with Industrial Emissions 
Directive (IED) emission limits. In addition the stack height determination (Appendix 
6.2) has demonstrated that a minimum stack height of 35 m is appropriate to 
ensure the adequate dispersal of pollutants to ensure that no harm is caused. 
3.11.16 The Project will require an Environmental Permit to operate as required by the 
Environmental Permitting Regulations 2016 (as amended), and monitoring the 
performance of the Generating Equipment against the permit conditions will be the 
responsibility of NRW. The performance of the emissions control will require 
monitoring by stack emissions testing throughout operation and the Generating 
Equipment will be ‘fine-tuned' so as to ensure that limits are not exceeded. 
3.11.17 The operation of the Project will not require a significant onsite workforce. Visits by 
service/maintenance vehicles etc. will occur on average every year. Nevertheless, 
an outline Travel Plan will be been prepared to ensure that any impacts on traffic 
(and by definition roadside air quality) are minimised. 
 Noise and Vibration 
c)
i. 
Construction 
3.11.18 It is anticipated that core working hours and boundary noise will be limited during 
construction by a Requirement in the DCO. Working hours are likely to be between 
08.00 and 18.00 on weekdays, and between 08.00 and 13.00 hours on Saturdays 
and public holidays. Some works may be allowed to take place outside of normal 
working hours provided they do not cause any noise disturbance. Should it be 
necessary to conduct work with the potential to generate noise, outside these core 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 3: PROJECT AND SITE DESCRIPTION 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited   
 
AECOM 
3-25 
 
hours, this would be with the prior written agreement of CCS. These limits will not 
apply during commissioning and testing of the Project. 
3.11.19 Measures to mitigate noise and ensure compliance with any imposed maximum 
boundary noise limits will be implemented during the construction phase of the 
Project in order to minimise impacts at local residential Noise Sensitive Receptors 
(NSRs), particularly with respect to activities required outside of normal working 
hours. 
3.11.20 Construction noise mitigation measures are included in the Outline CEMP 
(Appendix 3.1). In order to keep noise effects from the construction phase to a 
minimum, all construction activities relating to the Power Generation Plant, Gas 
Connection, and Electrical Connection would be carried out in accordance with the 
recommendations of British Standard (BS) 5228 ‘Noise and Vibration Control on 
Construction and Open Sites’ (Ref 3.4) as explained in Chapter 7: Noise & 
Vibration. 
3.11.21 Mitigation measures for inclusion within the CEMP may contain, but is not limited 
to: 
 Abiding by any construction noise limits at nearby NSRs; 
 Ensuring that all processes are in place to minimise noise before works begin 
and ensuring that best practicable measures (BPM) are being achieved 
throughout the construction programme, including the use of localised 
screening around significant noise producing plant and activities; 
 Ensuring that modern plant is used, complying with the latest European noise 
emission requirements.  Selection of inherently quiet plant where possible; 
 Hydraulic techniques for breaking to be used in preference to percussive 
techniques where practical; 
 Use of lower noise piling (such as rotary bored or hydraulic jacking) rather the 
driven piling techniques (if required), where possible;  
 Off-site pre-fabrication, where practical; 
 All plant and equipment being used for the works to be properly maintained, 
silenced where appropriate, operated to prevent excessive noise, and switched 
off when not in use; 
 All contractors to be made familiar with current legislation and the guidance in 
BS 5228 (Parts 1 and 2) (Ref 3.4), which should form a prerequisite of their 
appointment; 
 Loading and unloading of vehicles, dismantling of site equipment such as 
scaffolding or moving equipment or materials around the Project Site, to be 
conducted in such a manner as to minimise noise generation; 
 Appropriate routing of construction traffic on public roads and along access 
tracks;  
 Consultation with CCS and local residents to advise of potential noisy works 
that are due to take place; and 
 Monitoring of noise complaints, and reporting to the contractor for immediate 
investigation. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 3: PROJECT AND SITE DESCRIPTION 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited   
 
AECOM 
3-26 
 
3.11.22 Method statements regarding construction management, traffic management, and 
overall site management would be prepared in accordance with best practice and 
relevant British Standards, to help to minimise impacts of construction works.  One 
of the key aims of such method statements would be to minimise noise disruption 
to local residents during the construction period. 
3.11.23 Consultation and communication with the local community throughout the 
construction period would also serve to publicise the works schedule, giving 
notification to residents regarding periods when higher levels of noise may occur 
during specific operations, and providing lines of communication where complaints 
can be addressed.   
3.11.24 A detailed noise assessment would be carried out once the contractor is appointed 
and further details of construction methods are known, in order to identify specific 
mitigation measures for the Project.  
3.11.25 In addition, it is proposed that the contractor would be a member of the 
‘Considerate Constructors Scheme’ which is an initiative open to all contractors 
undertaking building work. 
ii. Operation 
3.11.26 The selection of the Project Site and development of the indicative concept layout 
have already included consideration of potential noise effects and proximity to 
NSRs, with Generating Equipment being located as close to the existing electrical 
infrastructure as possible and as far from the NSRs as practicable.   
3.11.27 Other measures with regards to noise and vibration during operation, to be 
incorporated into the design include: 
 The gas turbine generator and major compressors are to be housed in acoustic 
enclosures. In addition, these will be housed within secondary acoustic 
enclosures specified at 75 dB(A) Sound Pressure Level at 1 m. 
 Gas turbine air inlet filter and ventilation apertures are to be fitted with silencers, 
and designed such that all sensitive noise receptors benefit from screening 
and/or directivity corrections. 
 Silencers are to be fitted in the exhaust stack. Due to the impracticality of 
screening stack noise, discharge noise will be controlled using these silencers, 
which will be tuned to attenuate low frequencies from the gas turbine generator 
exhausts. 
 All plant items will be controlled to minimise noise of an impulsive or tonal nature. 
 Noise breakout from the stack will be controlled using silencers. To achieve the 
predicted noise levels used in this assessment, noise from the top of the stacks 
should not exceed the maximum octave band sound power levels identified in 
Table 7-8 in Chapter 7: Noise and Vibration. 
3.11.28 During the detailed design stage, options to mitigate potential significant residual 
noise effects by design will be further explored. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 3: PROJECT AND SITE DESCRIPTION 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited   
 
AECOM 
3-27 
 
3.11.29 Several options for configuration and suppliers of the Generation Equipment are 
under consideration. Preliminary modelling has shown that options are available 
that are capable of meeting the threshold noise levels. 
3.11.30 The Project would operate in accordance with an Environmental Permit issued and 
regulated by NRW. This would require operational noise from the Generating 
Equipment to be controlled through the use of BAT, which would be determined 
through the Environmental Permit application. 
3.11.31 If any non-normal and/or emergency operations were to lead to noise levels in 
excess of the agreed limits specified in the DCO Requirements, the operator will 
inform the local authority and residents of the reasons for these operations, the 
anticipated emergency period and the steps to be taken to bring it back to 
compliance. 
 Ecology 
d)
i. 
Construction 
3.11.32 Local habitats and protected species would be protected during the construction 
works through measures included within the Outline CEMP (Appendix 3.1) such as 
fencing to prevent access of species to working areas and translocation of 
protected species (e.g. reptiles). 
3.11.33 Sensitive ecology features such as the Ancient Woodland, trees and habitats have 
been avoided as much as possible during the Project design development and will 
continue to be considered in the potential improvements and widening of the 
existing access road from the B4489, drainage and landscape reinstatement.  
3.11.34 The Outline Ecological Management Plan will set out all necessary ecological 
mitigation measures as necessary to sufficiently mitigate the impacts on ecological 
receptors. The plan also outlines procedures to manage invasive species and will 
be submitted with the DCO Application. 
ii. Operation 
3.11.35 The stack has been designed to minimise impacts from emissions during operation, 
which includes minimising deposition that could affect ecological receptors. 
 Water Quality and Resources 
e)
i. 
Construction 
3.11.36 Hydrological protection measures have been included in the Outline CEMP 
(Appendix 3.1) to prevent pollution events, with particular reference to the Gas 
Connection and includes silt traps to reduce flow of suspended solids, suitable 
phasing to reduce the need for unprotected slopes and avoidance of stockpiled 
materials. The drainage strategy is included in Appendix E of Appendix 9.1. 
3.11.37 All designated oil retaining areas (e.g. oil filled transformers and oil storage areas) 
will be designed and constructed to contain at least 110% of the stored oil.  
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 3: PROJECT AND SITE DESCRIPTION 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited   
 
AECOM 
3-28 
 
3.11.38 Rainwater will be removed from oil retaining areas by an automatic pump to the oily 
water drainage system. The automatic pumps will be designed to shut down in the 
event that a major oil spillage is detected. This will help prevent large quantities of 
oil entering the oily water drainage system.  
3.11.39 The oily water drainage system will ultimately pass through a Class 1 Full Retention 
Oil Separator (as defined in BS EN 858) before discharging into surface water 
bodies or drainage systems. 
3.11.40 All oil unloading areas on site have been designed to include containment for 
accidental spillage of fuel during unloading with the loading system equipped such 
that drainage is isolated during filling and any spillage goes to the dedicated 
interceptor. 
3.11.41 The oil separator will be fitted with an alarm to indicate when the oil coalesce 
requires emptying. All oil separators will be sized to suit the oily water catchment 
area. 
i. 
Operation 
3.11.42 Adaptation of different platform levels at the locations of key elements of the Project 
development. In line with this, the ground level of the Water Main easement area 
will be retained at the existing level in order to provide a path for any flood water to 
pass through the Project Site, thereby avoiding the elevated Power Generation 
Plant areas – with the Power Generation Plant finished floor level to be raised by 
approximately 150 mm above the site road crown level while keeping the plant 
plinths at 300 mm above the site level. 
3.11.43 Provision for all process water (i.e. gas turbine compressor wash water) to be 
collected in a drain tank removed by road tanker and disposed by an accredited 
company to a designated treatment facility off-site. 
 
Ground Conditions 
f)
i. 
Construction 
3.11.44 The CEMP will be implemented during construction to mitigate any adverse 
environmental effects and includes working in accordance with best practices, such 
as the completion of all necessary ground investigation and risk assessments, 
maintaining safe working practices and the use of correct and appropriate Personal 
Protective Equipment (PPE). 
3.11.45 The following information which relates specifically to geology, ground conditions 
and hydrogeology will be included within the CEMP: 
 Surface and groundwater protection measures; 
 Peat management measures as required; and 
 Security measures; a protocol in the event that unexpected contaminated land 
is identified during ground investigation or construction. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 3: PROJECT AND SITE DESCRIPTION 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited   
 
AECOM 
3-29 
 
3.11.46 Intrusive ground investigation will be conducted post-consent, to be secured via a 
DCO Requirement, to identify ground conditions and potential contaminants, as will 
risk assessments including gas, control waters and human health.   
3.11.47 A detailed mining risk assessment may be required to establish the risk of 
untreated shallow underground workings beneath the Project Site. There is 
potential for mine workings and entries requiring stabilisation treatment so ground 
stability will be improved. 
3.11.48 A mineral resources survey may be undertaken to establish the value of the sand, 
gravel and coal reserves. 
3.11.49 A foundations risk assessment is likely to be required to assess the risk of piling 
foundations to controlled waters, however this will be confirmed by the ground 
investigiation. 
 Landscape and Visual 
g)
i. 
Construction 
3.11.50 Mitigation measures will be implemented during the construction phase as set out 
in the Outline CEMP (Appendix 3.1) in order to limit impacts on the landscape and 
visual resource. These measures will include:  
 The use of tall hoardings to screen views of ground level construction activities 
in relation to sensitive receptors such as residential views and views from 
nearby PRoW; 
 Materials and machinery will be stored tidily during the construction works in 
order to minimise impacts on views; 
 Lighting of compounds and work sites will be restricted to agreed working hours 
and those which are necessary for security in accordance with the Institution of 
Lighting Professionals guidelines (Ref. 3.5); 
 The unnecessary removal of vegetation will be avoided; 
 The retention and protection of existing trees in accordance with BS5837:2012 
Trees in Design, Demolition and Construction, Recommendations (Ref 3.5); 
 public roads providing access to construction site will be maintained fee of dust 
and mud; 
 The Contractor will clear and clean all working areas and accesses as work 
proceeds and when no longer required for the works; 
 On completion of construction works, all structures, equipment, surplus 
materials, waste, notice boards and temporary fences used during construction 
will be removed from the Project Site with minimum damage to the surrounding 
area; and  
 Prompt reinstatement of areas that are no longer required following 
construction. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 3: PROJECT AND SITE DESCRIPTION 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited   
 
AECOM 
3-30 
 
ii. Operation 
3.11.51 Mitigation has been developed through a collaborative and iterative design process 
and is embedded into the Project design.  These design measures are set out in 
the following paragraphs.  
3.11.52 Utilising technology OCGT will allow a significant reduction in stack height 
compared to other technology types. As a result of selecting OCGT technology, 
there will be no visible plume arising from the stack. The high temperature of the 
exhaust gases means that water vapour is well above the condensation point which 
would give rise to a visible plume.  
3.11.53 The architectural design of the buildings and structures on the Project Site has 
been designed to reduce glare and to assimilate the Project into the surrounding 
landscape as much as possible by using neutral recessive colours to lessen the 
contrast with the surrounding landscape and break up the overall massing of the 
large scale structures. 
3.11.54 External lighting has been designed to reduce trespass and configured to avoid 
glare and spillage Details will be provided in the Outline Lighting Strategy to be 
submitted as part of the DCO Application and undertaken in accordance with the 
Institution of Lighting Professionals Guidelines (Ref. 3.5). 
3.11.55 An outline landscape mitigation strategy has been developed to both provide 
reinstatement planting as well as to integrate the Project into the landscape and its 
wider setting. The planting proposals will be developed in accordance with the 
various utility and service constraints within the site and are presented on Figures 
11.10 – 11.12. Investigations are ongoing at present and this will be confirmed for 
the DCO Application.  
3.11.56 The landscape proposals will cover a minimum period of five years of monitoring, 
management and maintenance to ensure the landscape objectives are successfully 
achieved.  
 
Traffic, Transport and Access 
h)
i. 
Construction 
3.11.57 The embedded mitigation for traffic, transport and access includes the following: 
 
Modifications to the B4489/Access Road junction to facilitate movements by 
abnormal loads; 
 
Widening and extension of the access road to facilitate access by construction 
traffic; 
 
Physical management of the access road to ensure the security and safety of 
all staff; 
 
A Construction Traffic Management Plan (CTMP) including details of the 
management of construction traffic and PROW; and 
 
A Construction Staff Traffic Plan (CSTP) to minimise the level of single 
occupancy car use by construction staff travelling to/from the site. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 3: PROJECT AND SITE DESCRIPTION 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited   
 
AECOM 
3-31 
 
3.11.58 Details of these embedded mitigation measures are still to be finalised. 
 
Cultural Heritage and Archaeology 
i)
i. 
Construction 
3.11.59 A Written Scheme of Investigation (WSI) will be prepared in advance of 
construction commencing. A watching brief will then be implemented in accordance 
with WSI during construction for any works associated with ground disturbance. 
 
Other Effects  
j)
i. 
Construction 
3.11.60 The Outline CEMP includes a section on Site Waste Management, which will 
encourage reuse and recycling of waste before disposal in accordance with the 
waste hierarchy. 
3.12 
References 
Ref 3.1 National Grid. (2014). NGTS 2.20: Oil Containment at Electricity Substations and 
Other Operational Sites.  
Ref 3.2 CIRIA. (2015). C753: The SUDS [Sustainable Urban Drainage] Manual; 
Ref 3.3 IAQM. (2012). Guidance on Air Quality Monitoring in the Vicinity of Demolition and 
Construction Sites. [Online].  
Available: http://www.iaqm.co.uk/wp-
content/uploads/guidance/monitoring_construction_sites_2012.pdf  
Ref 3.4 British Standards Institute (BSI). (2014). BS 5228 -1: 2009+ A1:2014. Code of 
Practice for Noise and Vibration Control on Construction and Open Sites – Part 1: 
Noise.  
Ref 3.5 ILP. (2011). Guidance Notes for the Reduction of Obtrusive Light. [Online]. 
Available: https://www.theilp.org.uk/resources/free-resources/ilp-guidance-notes/  
Ref 3.6 BSI. (2012). BS 5837. Trees in Relation to Design, Demolition and Construction – 
Recommendations.  
 
