Voting ID
Task ID
Shareholder Reference No.
Form of Proxy – Drax Group plc
+
+
+
+
Attendance card for the Annual General Meeting
The 2020 Annual General Meeting of Drax Group plc is to be held at 11.30am on 
Wednesday 22 April 2020 at Grocers’ Hall, Princes Street, London EC2R 8AD.
Please detach and retain this attendance card and bring it with you if you come along 
to the Annual General Meeting to show as evidence of your right to be admitted.
Please bring with you a driving licence or passport or other form of photo ID. If you do 
not have your attendance card, you may be asked to provide two forms of identity 
(which may require photo identity and verification of your address). If you have been 
appointed as proxy for a shareholder entitled to vote, please let the admission staff 
know. You should bring proof of identity with you and you will be asked to confirm the 
details of the shareholder you are representing.
Do not post this section with the Form of Proxy. Shareholder reference number:
Signature of person attending:
Please refer to the notes on the reverse of the attached attendance card and the explanatory notes in the 
accompanying Notice of Annual General Meeting before completing this form. I/We hereby appoint the Chair of the 
Annual General Meeting or
Name of proxy 
Number of shares proxy is appointed over
 
as my/our proxy to exercise all or any of my/our rights to attend, speak and vote in respect of my/our ordinary shares 
on my/our behalf at the Annual General Meeting of Drax Group plc to be held at 11.30am on Wednesday 22 April 2020 
and at any adjournment thereof. I appoint my/our proxy to attend, speak and vote in the manner indicated below.
Please tick here if this proxy appointment is one of multiple appointments being made: 
 (see Note 2).
You may register the appointment of a proxy electronically by logging onto www.sharevote.co.uk and using the 
reference numbers above.
It is helpful for organisational purposes for the Company to gauge the number of  
attendees at the AGM, therefore if you intend to attend the AGM please tick here 
 
 
 
Vote 
Resolutions 
For  
Against 
Withheld
1 
To receive and adopt the Annual Report and the Audited Accounts. 
 
 
2 
 To approve the annual statement to shareholders by the Chair of the Remuneration  
 
 
 
Committee and the Annual Report on Remuneration.
3 
To approve the Directors’ Remuneration Policy. 
 
 
4 To approve the final dividend. 
 
 
5 
To elect John Baxter as a Director of the Company. 
 
 
6 To re-elect Philip Cox as a Director of the Company. 
 
 
7 
To re-elect Will Gardiner as a Director of the Company. 
 
 
8 To re-elect Nicola Hodson as a Director of the Company. 
 
 
9 To re-elect Andy Koss as a Director of the Company. 
 
 
10 To re-elect David Nussbaum as a Director of the Company. 
 
 
11 To re-elect Vanessa Simms as a Director of the Company. 
 
 
12 To re-elect Andy Skelton as a Director of the Company. 
 
 
13 To reappoint Deloitte LLP as auditor. 
 
 
14 Authority for the directors to determine the auditor’s remuneration. 
 
 
15 Authority to make EU political donations to specified limits. 
 
 
16 Authority to allot shares. 
 
 
17 Authority to make non pre-emptive share allotments.* 
 
 
18 Authority to purchase own shares.* 
 
 
19 To approve the 2020 LTIP 
 
 
20 Authority to call a General Meeting on not less than 14 days’ notice.*  
 
 
* Special resolution
Signature 
Date
 
GRESHAM ST                             LOTHBURY                  
 THROGMORTON  
ST
LONDON WALL
CHEAPSIDE                  POULTRY                        
                        CORNHILL
QUEEN VICTORIA ST                                         
          KING WILLIAM ST
                         
THREADNEEDLE ST
MOORGATE
OLD BROAD  
ST
  OLD JEWRY
COLEMAN ST
PRINCES ST
LOMBARD ST
ROYAL
EXCHANGE
BANK OF 
ENGLAND
GROCERS’
HALL
BANK
DLR
Notes
1 
Only holders of ordinary shares, or their duly appointed 
representatives, are entitled to attend and vote at the 
meeting. A shareholder so entitled may appoint (a) 
proxy(ies), who need not be (a) shareholder(s), to exercise all 
or any of his/her rights to attend and to speak and vote on 
his/her behalf at the meeting.
2 
You can appoint the Chair of the Annual General Meeting 
(“AGM”) or anyone else to be your proxy at the AGM. You can 
also, if you wish, appoint more than one proxy provided that 
each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a 
different share or shares held by you.
• 
To appoint the Chair as your sole proxy in respect of all 
your ordinary shares complete any voting instructions 
but leave all other proxy appointment details blank.
• 
To appoint a single proxy in respect of all your ordinary 
shares other than the Chair, delete only the words “the 
Chair of the Annual General Meeting” and insert the 
name of your proxy (who need not be a shareholder of 
the Company) and complete any voting instructions.
• 
To appoint more than one proxy, (an) additional proxy 
form(s) may be obtained by contacting the registrar or 
you may photocopy the Form of Proxy. Please indicate in 
the box next to the proxy holder’s name, the number of 
shares in relation to which you authorise them to act as 
your proxy and complete any voting instructions. Please 
also indicate by ticking the box provided on the Form of 
Proxy if the proxy instruction is one of multiple 
instructions being given. All Forms of Proxy should be 
returned together in the same envelope.
 
 If the box next to the proxy holder’s name is left blank, your 
proxy will be deemed to be authorised in respect of all your 
ordinary shares.
3 
The Form of Proxy gives your proxy or proxies full rights to 
attend, speak and vote at the AGM.
4 
If the Form of Proxy is signed by someone else on your 
behalf, their authority to sign must be returned with the 
Form of Proxy. If the shareholder is a corporation, the Form 
of Proxy must be executed under its common seal or signed 
by an officer or attorney or other person duly authorised by 
the corporation.
5 
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities 
Regulations 2001 (as amended) and section 360B of the 
Companies Act 2006, only those persons entered in the 
Register of Members of the Company (the “Register”) as at 
6.30 pm on 20 April 2020 (the “Specified Time”) shall be 
entitled to attend or vote at the AGM in respect of the 
number of ordinary shares in the capital of the Company 
registered in their names at that time. Changes to entries on 
the Register for certificated or uncertificated shares of the 
Company after the Specified Time shall be disregarded in 
determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the 
AGM. Should the AGM be adjourned to a time not more than 
48 hours after the Specified Time, that time will also apply 
for the purpose of determining the entitlement of members 
to attend and vote (and for the purpose of determining the 
number of votes they may cast) at the adjourned AGM. 
Should the AGM be adjourned for a longer period, to be so 
entitled, members must have been entered on the Register 
by 6.30 pm on the day which is two business days prior to 
the adjourned AGM or, if the Company has given notice of 
the adjourned AGM, at the time specified in such notice.
6 
Corporate Representatives must make themselves known to 
the registrar before the start of the meeting.
7 
Full details of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM, 
with explanatory notes, are set out in the enclosed Notice of 
AGM.
8 
Please indicate with an “X” in the boxes provided how you 
wish your vote to be cast. Unless otherwise instructed, the 
person(s) appointed a proxy will exercise his/her discretion 
as to how he/she votes or whether he/she abstains from 
voting on any particular resolution and on any other 
business (including amendments to resolutions and any 
procedural business), which may come before the AGM.
9 
If you appoint multiple proxies and wish to give them 
separate instructions to vote or abstain from voting, please 
indicate how you wish each proxy to vote or abstain from 
voting by writing in each appropriate box the name of the 
proxy and the number of ordinary shares to be voted or 
withheld from voting by him or her.
10 The “Vote withheld” option on the Form of Proxy is provided 
to enable you to abstain on any particular resolution. 
However, a vote withheld is not a vote in law and will not be 
counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes “For” 
and “Against” a resolution.
11 
Any alterations to this Form of Proxy should be initialled.
12 
If you complete and return the Form of Proxy this will not 
preclude you from attending the AGM and voting in person.
13 
All Forms of Proxy must be signed, dated and returned to 
the Company’s registrar, Equiniti Limited.
14 
In the case of joint holders, only one need sign this Form of 
Proxy, but the vote of the senior who tenders a vote, 
whether in person or by proxy, will be accepted to the 
exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders. For this 
purpose seniority shall be determined by the order in which 
the names stand in the Company’s register of members in 
respect of the joint holding.
15 
To be valid the Form of Proxy (together with any authority 
under which it is executed or a copy of the authority certified 
notarially) must be received by the Company’s registrar, 
Equiniti Limited, no later than 11.30am on Monday 20 April 
2020 or by no later than 48 hours, excluding non-business 
days, prior to the date of any adjourned meeting.
16 
Please return the Form of Proxy to the address shown on 
the back of the Form. Alternatively, you can return it in an 
envelope using the following address: Equiniti Limited, 
FREEPOST RTHJ-CLLL-KBKU, Aspect House, Spencer Road, 
Lancing, West Sussex BN99 8LU. A stamp is not required if 
posted in Great Britain, Channel Islands or Northern Ireland.
 
Alternately Electronic Proxy Appointment (“EPA”) is available 
for this Meeting. To use this facility you must visit  
www.sharevote.co.uk where details of the procedure are 
shown. The Voting ID, Task ID and Shareholder Reference 
Number shown on the Proxy Form will be required to 
complete the procedure. EPA will not be valid if received 
after 11.30am on Monday 20 April 2020 and will not be 
accepted if found to contain a computer virus.
17 
If Equiniti Registrars receive more than one valid Form of 
Proxy in respect of the same ordinary shares, they will 
accept the last one. They cannot accept Forms of Proxy 
returned by fax.
18 The CREST electronic proxy appointment service is available 
for this AGM. To use this service CREST members should 
transmit a CREST proxy instruction, utilising the procedures 
described in the CREST Manual, so as to reach the 
Company’s registrar, Equiniti Limited, CREST participant ID 
RA19 by no later than 11.30am on 20 April 2020 or in the 
case of any adjournment not later than 48 hours, excluding 
non-business days, before the time fixed for the adjourned 
meeting. For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken 
to be the time (as determined by the timestamp generated 
by the CREST system) from which Equiniti Limited is able to 
retrieve the message. The Company may treat as invalid a 
proxy appointment sent by CREST in the circumstances set 
out in Regulation 35(5)(a) of the Uncertified Securities 
Regulations 2001. For further information relating to the 
CREST proxy system, please refer to the CREST manual 
(available via www.euroclear.com) and the notes to the 
Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
