 
 
 
The Abergelli Power Gas Fired Generating Station 
Order 
 
1.4 Project Glossary 
 
Planning Act 2008 
The Infrastructure Planning  
(Applications: Prescribed Forms and Procedure) Regulations 2009 
 
PINS Reference Number:  
 
EN010069 
Document Reference: 
 
 
1.4 
Regulation Number: 
 
 
5(2)(q)  
Author: 
 
 
 
 
Abergelli Power Limited 
 
Revision 
 
Date  
 
Description  
 
0 
 
 
May 2018  
 
Submission Version  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
 
Abbreviations  
Abbreviation 
Description 
µS/cm 
Micro-Siemens per centimetre, Unit of Conductivity 
AADT 
Annual Average Daily Traffic 
ACC 
Air Cooled Condensers 
ADMS 
Atmospheric Dispersion Modelling System 
AES 
Annual Energy Statement 
AGI 
Above Ground Installation 
AOD 
Above Ordinance Datum 
AONB 
Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty 
AM 
Assembly Member 
AN 
Advice Note 
APFP 
Applications: Prescribed Forms and Procedures 
APL 
Abergelli Power Limited 
APIS 
Air Pollution Information System 
AQMA 
Air Quality Management Area 
AQS 
Air Quality Strategy 
ATC 
Automatic Traffic Count 
BAI 
Bat Activity Index 
BAP 
UK Biodiversity Action Plan 
BAT 
Best Available Techniques 
BEIS 
Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy 
BICC 
British Insulated Callender's Cables 
BGS 
British Geological Survey 
BOP 
Balance of Plant 
BPM 
Best Practicable Measures 
BREF 
BAT Reference documents 
BS 
British Standard 
BTO 
British Trust for Ornithology 
CA 
Conservation Area 
CAA 
Civil Aviation Authority  
CBD 
Convention on Biological Diversity 
CCGT 
Combined Cycle Gas Turbine 
CCR 
Carbon Capture Ready 
CCS 
 
City and County of Swansea 
CCW 
Countryside Council for Wales 
CCZ 
Core Consultation Zone 
CDM 
Construction (Design and Management) 
 
 
2 
 
Abbreviation 
Description 
CERC 
Cambridge Environmental Research Consultants 
CEMP 
Construction Environmental Management Plan 
CHP 
Combined Heat & Power 
CLF 
Critical Load Function 
CO 
Carbon Monoxide 
CO2 
Carbon Dioxide 
CoPA 
Control of Pollution Act 1974 
CRAPW 
Central Register of Air Photography for Wales 
cSAC 
candidate SACs 
CSTP 
Construction Staff Travel Plan 
CTMP 
Construction Traffic Management Plan 
DA 
Delivery Agreement 
DAM 
Development Advice Map 
dB 
Decibel, Unit of Volume 
dBA 
A-weighting sound levels measured in decibels.  
DCfW 
Design Commission for Wales  
DCLG 
Department for Communities and Local Government 
DCO 
Development Consent Order 
DECC 
Department for Energy and Climate Change 
DfT 
Department for Transport 
DMRB 
The Design Manual for Roads and Bridges 
DVLA 
Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency 
EA 
Environment Agency 
ECR 
Electricity Capacity Report 
EIA 
Environmental Impact Assessment 
ELC 
European Landscape Convention 
ELV 
Emission Limit Values 
EMF 
Electromagnetic Fields 
EP 
Environmental Permit 
EPA 
Environmental Protection Act 1990 
EPUK 
Environmental Protection UK 
ES 
Environmental Statement 
EU 
European Union 
ExA 
Examining Authority 
FCA 
Flood Consequence Assessment 
FRA 
Flood Risk Assessment 
FRMP 
Flood Risk Management Plan 
FTE 
Full-Time Equivalent 
 
 
3 
 
Abbreviation 
Description 
GB 
Great Britain 
GI 
Ground Investigation 
GIS 
Gas Insulated Switchgear 
GLVIA 
Guidelines for Landscape and Visual Impact Assessment 
GPDO 
General Permitted Development Order 1995 
GRS 
Gas Receiving Station 
GVA 
Gross Value Added 
GW 
Gigawatt 
ha 
Hectare, Unit of Area 
HDD 
Horizontal Directional Drill 
HDV 
Heavy Duty Vehicle 
HE 
Highways England 
HER 
Historic Environment Record 
HGV 
Heavy Goods Vehicle 
HRA 
Habitats Regulations Assessment 
HRSG 
Heat Recovery Steam Generator 
HSE 
Health and Safety Executive 
HSWA 
Health and Safety at Work etc. Act 1974 
IAQM 
Institute of Air Quality Management 
ICNIRP 
International Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection 
IEA 
Institute of Environmental Assessment 
IED 
Industrial Emissions Directive 
IEEM 
Institute of Ecology and Environmental Management 
IEMA 
Institute of Environmental Management and Assessment 
ILP 
Institution of Lighting Professionals 
IPC 
Infrastructure Planning Commission 
IPPC 
Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control 
km 
Kilometre, Unit of Length 
kV 
Kilovolt, Unit of Electric Potential 
LB 
Listed Building 
LCA 
Landscape Character Areas 
LCPD 
Large Combustion Plants Directive 
LDP 
Local Development Plan 
LDV 
Light Duty Vehicle 
LEMP 
Landscape and Ecology Mitigation Plan 
LFRMS 
Local Flood Risk Management Strategy 
LHA 
Local Highway Authority 
LiDAR 
Light Detection and Ranging 
 
 
4 
 
Abbreviation 
Description 
LLFA 
Lead Local Flood Authority 
LOAEL 
Lowest Observable Adverse Effect Level  
LVA 
Landscape and Visual Assessment 
LVIA 
Landscape and Visual Impact Assessment 
m 
Metre, Unit of Length 
MBT 
Mechanical Biological Treatment 
m/s 
Metres per second, Unit of Speed  
MOC 
Minimum Offtake Connection 
MoD 
Ministry of Defence 
MTAN 
Minerals Technical Advice Notes 
MW (or MWe) 
Megawatts, Unit of Electricity 
NATS 
National Air Traffic Services 
NDF 
National Development Framework 
NERC 
Natural Environment and Rural Communities 
NETS 
National Grid Electricity Transmission System 
NGET 
National Grid Electricity Transmission plc 
NNR 
National Nature Reserve 
NMA 
Non-Material Amendment 
NMR 
National Monuments Record 
NO2 
Nitrogen Dioxide 
NOx 
Nitrogen Oxide  
NOAEL 
No Observed Adverse Effect Level 
NPPF 
National Planning Policy Framework 
NPS 
National Policy Statement 
NRW 
Natural Resources Wales 
NSIP 
Nationally Significant Infrastructure Project 
NSR 
Noise Sensitive Receptors 
NTS 
Non-Technical Summary 
NVC 
National Vegetation Classification 
OCGT 
Open Cycle Gas Turbine 
OCZ 
Outer Consultation Zone 
OS 
Ordinance Survey 
PA  
Planning Act 2008 
PC 
Process Contribution 
PEA 
Preliminary Ecological Appraisal 
PEC 
Predicted Environmental Concentration 
PTF 
PIG Trap Facility 
PIER 
Preliminary Environmental Information Report 
 
 
5 
 
Abbreviation 
Description 
PIG 
Pipeline Inspection Gauge 
PINS 
Planning Inspectorate 
PHE 
Public Health England 
PM10 
Particulate Matter 
PM2.5 
Particulate Matter 
PPE 
Personal Protective Equipment 
PPV 
Peak Particle Velocity 
PPW 
Planning Policy Wales 
P&R 
Park & Ride 
PRoW 
Public Right of Way  
pSPA 
proposed SPAs 
PV 
Photovoltaic 
RBMP 
River Basin Management Plans 
RCAHMW 
Royal Commission on the Ancient and Historical Monuments of 
Wales 
RFC 
ratio of flow to capacity 
RGE 
Reciprocating Gas Engines 
RIGs 
Regionally Important Geological / Geomorphological Site 
SAB 
SuDS Approving Body 
SAC 
Special Area of Conservation 
SEF 
Swansea Environmental Forum 
SES 
Swansea Environment Strategy 
SINC 
Site of Importance for Nature Conservation 
SLA 
Special Landscape Areas 
SNCI 
Site of Nature Conservation Interests 
SM 
Scheduled Monument 
SoCC 
Statement of Community Consultation 
SoCG 
Statement of Common Ground 
SOAEL 
Significant Observable Adverse Effect Level  
SoS 
Secretary of State 
SPA 
Special Protection Area 
SPG 
Supplementary Planning Guidance 
SPZ 
Source Protection Zone 
SSSI 
Site of Special Scientific Interest 
SuDS 
Sustainable Drainage Systems 
SWMP 
Surface Water Management Plan 
SWTRA 
South Wales Trunk Road Agent 
SWWWT 
South and West Wales Wildlife Trust 
 
 
6 
 
Abbreviation 
Description 
TA 
Transport Assessment 
TAN 
Technical Advice Note 
TCPA 
Town and Country Planning Act (1990) 
TRL 
Transport Research Laboratories 
UAEL 
Unacceptable Adverse Effect Level 
UEP 
Updated Energy Projections 
UDP 
Unitary Development Plan 
VVM 
Visually Verified Montages 
WA  
Wales Act 2017 
WAC 
Waste Acceptance Criteria 
WG 
Welsh Government 
WHO 
World Health Organisation  
WPP 
Wildlife Protection Plan 
WPZ  
Water Protection Zone 
WSI 
Written Scheme of Investigation 
WTS 
Wales Transport Strategy 
ZoI 
Zone of Influence 
ZTV 
Zone of Theoretical Visibility 
 
 
Project Glossary 
• 
2014 PEIR: The 2014 PEIR summarising the preliminary findings of the EIA prepared 
at the time of the Phase 1 consultation. 
• 
2018 PEIR: The 2018 PEIR summarising the preliminary findings of the EIA prepared 
at the time of the Phase 2 consultation. 
• 
Above Ground Installation: The Above Ground Installation incorporates the 
minimum offtake connection (MOC) facility, which would be owned by National Grid 
Gas Plc, and a Pipeline Inspection Gauge (PIG) Trap Facility (PTF), owned by 
Abergelli Power Limited. It forms part of the Gas Connection. 
• 
Access Road to the Generating Equipment Site - from the B4489 which lies to the 
west, formed by upgrading an existing access road between the B4489 junction and 
the Substation and constructing a new section of road from the Substation to the 
Generating Equipment Site. 
• 
Additional Mitigation:  Further measures proposed by APL in order to reduce 
adverse effects or to secure anticipated outcomes. Additional mitigation is described 
in the assessment sections of the ES and the ES NTS for the relevant topic areas.  
• 
Agricultural Land Classification: The ALC provides a method for assessing the 
quality of agricultural land to enable informed choices to be made about its future use 
 
 
7 
 
within the planning system, in accordance with current guidelines (former Ministry of 
Agriculture, Fisheries and Food MAFF, 1988).   
• 
Ambient: A term used in acoustic and air quality studies to describe the background 
level of noise or quality of air outdoors. 
• 
Amenity: The preferable features of a location which contribute to its overall character 
and the enjoyment of residents or visitors. 
• 
Annual mean concentration: The average (mean) of the hourly pollutant 
concentration measured or predicted for a one year period. 
• 
Ancient Woodland: Ancient woodland is defined as an area that has been wooded 
continuously since at least 1600 AD.  Ancient Woodland is divided into ancient semi-
natural woodland and plantations on ancient woodland sites.  Both types of stand are 
classed as ancient woods.   
• 
APFP Regulations: Infrastructure Planning (Applications: Prescribed Forms and 
Procedures) Regulations 2009 (as amended). 
• 
The Applicant: Abergelli Power Ltd (APL), the company responsible for the 
application for development consent for the Project. 
• 
Air Quality Management Area: A defined area by virtue of Section 82(3) of the 
Environment Act 1995, where it appears that the air quality objectives prescribed 
under the UK Air Quality Strategy will not be achieved. In these areas, a Local 
Authority must designate Air Quality Management Areas, within which an Action Plan 
can be proposed to secure improvements in air quality so that prescribed air quality 
objectives can be achieved. 
• 
Air Quality Standard Objectives: Criteria for the assessment of local air quality 
expressed in terms of a concentration threshold to be achieved by a certain date.  The 
thresholds are established at concentrations considered acceptable in the light of what 
is known about the effects of each pollutant on human health or ecosystems.  The 
objectives are referred to in the UK Air Quality Strategy for the purposes of air quality 
management.   
• 
Associated Development: Associated Development is defined in the Planning Act 
2008.  No Associated Development is proposed as part of the DCO Application. 
• 
Balance of Plant: All infrastructure required to support the Gas Turbine Generator 
within the Generating Equipment Site and includes: Stack; external fin-fan cooler(s); 
control room / office / workshop building; telemetry apparatus; raw/ fire / demineralised 
water tanks; emergency generator including fuel storage tank; gas pipeline and 
telemetry cabling; cathodic protection test/transformer compound; gas receiving 
station. 
• 
Baseline: Environmental conditions at specific periods of time, present on, or near a 
site, against which future changes may be measured or predicted. 
• 
Best Available Technique: The most effective and advanced stage in the 
development of activities and their methods of operation which indicates the practical 
suitability of particular techniques for providing the basis for emission limit values and 
other permit conditions designed to prevent and, where that is not practicable, to 
reduce emissions and the impact on the environment as a whole.  
 
 
8 
 
• 
Biodiversity: Abbreviated form of ‘biological diversity’ referring to variability among 
living organisms from all sources including, terrestrial, marine and other aquatic 
ecosystems and the ecological complexes of which they are part.   
• 
Biodiversity Action Plan: Plan by the Joint Nature Conservation Committee which 
sets specific, measurable, achievable, realistic and time bound conservation targets 
for species and habitats in the UK. 
• 
British Standard: The display of a British Standard number shows that the 
manufacturer claims to have made the produce in accordance with British Standard. 
A standard is a published document that contains a technical specification or other 
precise criteria designed to be used consistently as a rule or definition. Standards are 
designed for voluntary use and do not impose any regulations. However, laws and 
regulations may refer to certain standards and make compliance with them 
compulsory. Sometimes BS will be accompanied by the letters EN and/or ISO. These 
mean that the standard was developed as a European (EN) or International (ISO) 
standard and then adopted by the UK as a British Standard.   
• 
Carbon monoxide: A gas that is produced from the partial oxidation of carbon 
containing compounds. 
• 
Combined Cycle Gas Turbine: Gas plant technology system comprising Gas 
Turbine(s) fuelled by natural gas, a Heat Recovery Steam Generator(s) utilising heat 
from the Gas Turbine exhaust gases, and a steam turbine plant with associated 
condensing system.  
• 
Combined Heat and Power: A cogeneration power station capable of supplying 
power to the NETS and also heat to local heat users (such as industry or leisure) 
through a direct connection to waste heat/steam produced as part of the combustion 
process.  
• 
Conservation Area: An area of special architectural or historical importance that is 
protected by statutory designation. 
• 
Construction Phase: The duration in time when construction is taking place on site. 
• 
Conceptual Site Model: The objective of constructing a Conceptual Site Model is to 
record all the potential pollutant linkages between the source of contamination and the 
receptors, i.e. the reasonably possible ways in which the receptors may experience 
exposure and consequent adverse effects. 
• 
Controlled waters: Inland freshwaters and groundwater. 
• 
Cumulative effects: The summation of effects caused by both intra-project (where a 
single receptor is affected by multiple aspects of a project, worsening the effect) and 
inter-project effects (where effects are exacerbated due to other reasonably 
foreseeable projects either in construction, consented or yet to be built).  
• 
Decibel (dB): Unit used to measure the intensity of a sound. 
• 
dBA: A-weighting sound levels measured in decibels. The A-weighting is applied to 
measured or calculated sound pressure levels so that these levels correspond more 
closely to the response of the human ear. A-weighted sound levels are often denoted 
as dB(A). 
• 
Decommissioning: Decommissioning will comprise the removal of all above ground 
Generating Equipment items and the ground dressed with suitable topsoil’s and 
reseeded once operation has ceased. This process will take approximately 22 months. 
 
 
9 
 
It is likely that some underground structures, including the Pipeline part of the Gas 
Connection will be capped and left in situ to avoid any adverse environmental effects 
associated with their removal. 
• 
Desk Based Assessment: Research based primarily on database and internet data 
gathering methods. 
• 
Design Manual for Roads and Bridges: A widely used methodology for 
Environmental Impact Assessment (Volume 11) which is used to assess some impacts 
of the Project (in particular traffic and transport) with appropriate modifications. 
• 
Development Plan: The set of documents and plans that sets out the local authority's 
policies and proposals for the development and use of land in its area, adopted in 
accordance with the Planning and Compulsory Purchase Act 2004. 
• 
Development Consent Order: A DCO is made by the (Secretary of State) SoS 
pursuant to the Planning Act 2008 (PA 2008) to authorise an NSIP.  
• 
Development Consent Order Application: The Application for a DCO made to the 
SoS under section 37 of the PA 2008 in respect of the Project, required pursuant to 
section 31 of the PA 2008 because the Project constitutes an NSIP under section 
14(1)(a) and section 15 of the PA 2008 by virtue of being an onshore generating station 
in England and Wales of 50 MW capacity or more. 
• 
Drax Group plc: Drax is one of the UK’s largest energy producers and acquired APL 
from Watt Power Limited in 2016.  
• 
Ecological Impact Assessment: A recommended procedure for the ecological 
component of Environmental Impact Assessment, as formally required by EIA 
regulation. 
• 
Ecological Mitigation Area: An area that has been set aside within the Project Site 
Boundary for ecological mitigation. 
• 
Effect: The consequence of an impact on the environment, multiplied by the sensitivity 
of the receptor. 
• 
Environmental Health Officer: Officer at a local authority who is primarily 
concerned with protecting the public from the harmful exposures they may encounter 
in the environment and with improving the environment and health. 
• 
Environmental Impact Assessment: The assessment of the likely significant 
environmental effects of the Project. Undertaken in accordance with the relevant EIA 
Regulations for the Project; the Infrastructure Planning (Environmental Impact 
Assessment) Regulations 2009 as amended. 
• 
EIA Regulations: For the Project the relevant EIA regulations are the Infrastructure 
Planning (Environmental Impact Assessment) Regulations 2009 as amended, and this 
term is used to mean the 2009 regulations (as amended). 
• 
EIA Regulations 2017: The Infrastructure Planning (Environmental Impact 
Assessment) Regulations 2017 which came into force on 16 May 2017. Note that, in 
accordance with the transitional arrangements set by Regulation 37(2)(a) of these 
regulations, the 2009 Regulations and regime continue to apply to this Project. 
• 
Electrical Connection: An underground electrical cable to export power from the 
Generating Equipment to the National Grid Electricity Transmission System (NETS). 
 
 
10 
 
• 
Electromagnetic Field: A magnetic field is the physical field within which magnetic 
influence of electric currents and magnetic materials extends. 
• 
Embedded Mitigation: Mitigation which is either implicit in the design of the Project, 
or its construction and operation, through standard control measures routinely used, 
such as working within best practice guidance during construction. 
• 
Emission: A material that is expelled or released to the environment.  Usually applied 
to gaseous or odorous discharges to the atmosphere. 
• 
Environmental effect: The consequence of an impact on the environment. 
• 
Environmental impact: A physical or measurable change to the environment. 
• 
Environmental Permit: A permit (pursuant to the Environmental Permitting (England 
and Wales) Regulations 2016) that allows the operator of an installation to carry on 
various activities which may have an impact on the environment and human health 
and stipulates what restrictions there are to minimise damage to the environment and 
human health. The permit for the Project will be issued and regulated by NRW.  
• 
Environmental Statement: A statement that includes such of the information referred 
to in Part 1 of Schedule 4 of the EIA Regulations as is reasonably required to assess 
the environmental effects of the Project. It must include at least the information 
referred to in Part 2 of Schedule 4 of the EIA Regulations. The ES for the Project is 
included with the DCO application as Document Reference 6.1.  
• 
Environmental Statement Non-Technical Summary: A report presenting a non-
technical summary of the information provided in the ES.  The ES-NTS for the Project 
is included within the DCO Application as Document Reference 6.4. 
• 
Environment (Wales) Act 2016: The Environment (Wales) Act 2016 provides 
legislation to plan and manage Wales’ natural resources.  The Act aims to position 
Wales as a low carbon economy ready to adapt to climate change impacts and to 
deliver significant economic, social and environmental benefits for Wales. 
• 
European Protected Species: European Protected Species are animals and plants 
that receive protection under the Conservation of Habitats and Species Regulations 
2010, in addition to the Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981 (as amended). 
• 
Examining Authority: The Inspector or Panel of Inspectors responsible for 
conducting the examination of, and making a recommendation to the SoS on, the DCO 
Application.  
• 
Exceedance: An episode where the concentration of a pollutant is greater than, or 
equal to, a set limit e.g. Air Quality Objectives (air quality) or soil guideline values 
(contaminated land). 
• 
Felindre Gas Compressor Station: Gas compressor facility located in close 
proximity to the Project Site and adjacent to the Substation.  
• 
Felindre Park and Share: Free car parking facility, located on the BB489 just off 
Junction 46 of the M4. 
• 
Felindre Water Treatment Works: Water treatment facility currently located to the 
northwest of the Project Site.  
• 
Flood Consequence Assessment: A study which considers the contributing factors 
and predicts / quantifies the risk of flooding to and from a proposed development, 
 
 
11 
 
identifies a water level in the event of flooding and sets out the details of any proposed 
mitigation measures. 
• 
Flood Zone: An area identified by the Environment Agency, through modelling, that is 
at risk of flooding from a river or the sea, to varying levels of magnitude and frequency. 
• 
Frequency (sound): Frequency (or pitch) of sound measured in units of Hertz. 1 Hertz 
(Hz) = 1 cycle/second.   
• 
Gallops: Soft surface horse training track which runs diagonally northwest-southeast 
through the Project Site, directly south of the Generating Equipment Site. 
• 
Gas Connection: A new Above Ground Installation (AGI) and underground Gas 
Pipeline.  
• 
Gas Insulated Substation: A gas insulated substation (GIS) is a high voltage 
substation in which the major structures are contained in a sealed environment with 
sulphur hexafluoride gas as the insulating medium. 
• 
Gas Pipeline: The underground gas pipeline connection from the National Gas 
Transmission System, to the Generating Equipment Site.  
• 
Gas Turbine Generator: One OCGT generator (as proposed in the Power Generation 
Plant) which utilises the combustion of gas and air to generate hot gases that are 
routed across turbine blades, which generate rotational forces that turn an electrical 
generator. The exhaust gases are discharged directly to a single stack without 
providing heat for a secondary steam cycle.  The Gas Turbine Generator forms part of 
the Generating Equipment and is located within the Generating Equipment Site.   
• 
Generating Equipment: Gas Turbine Generator and Balance of Plant which are 
located on the Generating Equipment Site.  
• 
Generating Equipment Site: The site where the Generating Equipment is located.   
• 
Groundwater: Water occurring in the ground which can be reasonably attributed to 
relatively geologically recent recharge and which can be reasonably considered to be 
wholesome (potable) unless it has been contaminated (altered) by anthropogenic 
activity. 
• 
Guidelines for Landscape and Visual Impact Assessment: The third edition of 
Guidelines for Landscape and Visual Impact Assessment (GLVIA3), which was 
published in April 2013 by the Landscape Institute and Institute of Environmental 
Management and Assessment. 
• 
Habitat: The environment in which populations or individual species live or grow. 
• 
Habitat Regulation Assessment: There is a legal requirement through the 
Conservation of Habitats and Species Regulations 2010 (referred to as the Habitat 
Regulations) (as amended) to consider whether land use plans are likely to have a 
significant effect on European sites of nature conservation importance prior to the 
plans being implemented.  The assessment is called a Habitats Regulations 
Assessment.  The sites covered by this legislation include Special Protection Areas 
(SPAs) and Special Areas of Conservation (SACs). National guidance recommends 
that Ramsar sites are also assessed. 
• 
Health and Safety Executive: The HSE is the national independent watchdog for 
work-related health, safety and illness. 
 
 
12 
 
• 
Heavy goods vehicle: A commercial road vehicle that is of a construction primarily 
suited for the carriage of goods or burden of any kind and designed or adapted to have 
a maximum weight exceeding 3,500 kilograms when in normal use and travelling on 
a road laden.  
• 
Hectare: A unit of area (10,000 m² / 2.471 acres). 
• 
Heritage asset: A building, monument, site, place, area or landscape identified as 
having a degree of significance meriting consideration in planning decisions, because 
of its heritage interest. Heritage assets include designated heritage assets identified 
by Historic England (e.g. Statutory Listed Buildings), as well as heritage assets 
identified by the local planning authority (including locally listed buildings and 
conservation areas).   
• 
Historic environment: All aspects of the environment resulting from the interaction 
between people and places through time including all surviving physical remains of 
past human activity, whether visible, buried or submerged, and landscaped, planted 
or managed flora. Those elements of the historic environment that hold significance 
are called heritage assets.   
• 
Historic Environment Record: The repository for all archaeological and historical 
information relating to a county or district. 
• 
Historic Parks and Gardens: Parks, gardens and other associated features deemed 
to be of historical importance or significance and placed on Historic England’s 
‘Register of Historic Parks and Gardens’.  
• 
Hydrology: The movement, distribution and quality of water throughout the earth.   
• 
Infrastructure Planning (Environmental Impact Assessment) Regulations 2009: 
See ‘EIA Regulations’. 
• 
Impact: A physical or measurable change to the environment. 
• 
Joint Nature Conservancy Committee: A public body that advises the UK 
Government and devolved administrations on UK-wide and international nature 
conservation. 
• 
Kilometre: Measurement of distance (1000 metres). 
• 
Kilovolt: Measurement of the amount of electric potential energy equal to 1000 Volts.  
• 
LANDMAP: LANDMAP is an all-Wales landscape resource where landscape 
characteristics, qualities and influences on the landscape are recorded and evaluated. 
• 
Landscape and Ecology Mitigation Plan: Holistic figure(s) illustrating high level 
mitigation for the Project included in ES Figure 3.6, Document Reference 6.3. 
• 
Landscape and Ecology Mitigation Strategy: Strategy document highlighting areas 
for mitigation and enhancement of the landscape and biodiversity value of the Project 
Site.  An outline Landscape and Ecology Mitigation Strategy for the Project is included 
in ES Appendix 3.4, Document Reference 6.2.  
• 
Landscape and Visual Impact Assessment: A tool used to identify and assess the 
likely significant effects of change resulting from development both on the landscape 
as an environmental resource in its own right and on people’s views and visual 
amenity.  
• 
Landscape character: The distinct and recognisable pattern of elements that occur 
consistently in a particular type of landscape, and how this is perceived by people. It 
 
 
13 
 
reflects particular combinations of geology, landform, soils, vegetation, land use and 
human settlement. 
• 
Landscape Character Assessment: The process of identifying and describing 
variation in the character of the landscape, and using this information to assist in 
managing change in the landscape. It seeks to identify and explain the unique 
combination of elements and features that make landscapes distinctive.   
• 
Laydown Area: A temporary construction compound for the storage of materials, plant 
and equipment as well as containing site accommodation and welfare facilities, 
temporary car parking and temporary fencing.  
• 
LA90: The sound level (in dB(A)) exceeded for 90% of the time.  This level gives an 
indication of the sound level during the quieter periods of time in any given sample.  It 
is used to describe the “background sound level” of an area. 
• 
LAeq: The equivalent continuous sound level in dB(A).  This unit may be described 
as the “notional steady noise level that would provide, over a period, the same energy 
as the intermittent noise”. 
• 
Listed building: A list of buildings of special architectural or historic interest compiled 
by the Secretary of State for the guidance of local planning authorities in the exercise 
of their planning functions under the Planning (Listed Buildings and Conservation 
Areas) Act 1990 and the Town and Country Planning Act 1990. Buildings are graded 
as follows: Grade I – Buildings of exceptional interest; Grade II* - Particularly important 
buildings of more than special interest; and Grade II – Buildings of special interest. 
• 
Local Nature Reserve: A site of importance for wildlife, geology, education or public 
enjoyment. Some are also nationally important Sites of Special Scientific Interest. 
Local Nature Reserves must be controlled by the local authority through ownership, 
lease or agreement with the owner. Protected by statute. 
• 
Local Development Plan:  A detailed district or borough-wide land-use plan, prepared 
and adopted by a Local Planning Authority, which is part of the statutory development 
plan. Consists of a written statement which sets out the Local Planning Authority’s 
development control policies and proposals.   
• 
Local Planning Authority: The local authority or council that is empowered by law to 
exercise statutory town planning functions for a particular area of the UK. 
• 
Magnitude: A combination of the scale, extent and duration of an impact.  
• 
Maintenance Compound: An area within the Laydown Area that will be retained 
permanently. 
• 
Metre: Measurement of length. 
• 
Mega Watt: A unit of power equal to one million watts 
• 
Minimum Offtake Connection: A connection that will offtake gas directly from the 
National Transmission System. The MOC forms part of the AGI and therefore the Gas 
Connection. 
• 
Ministry of Defence: Department responsible for implementing the defence policy set 
by the UK Government. 
• 
Mitigation: Action proposed to avoid, prevent, reduce and where possible offset 
adverse effects arising from the whole or specific elements of a development.  
 
 
14 
 
• 
National Development Framework: A document that will set out a 20-year land use 
framework for Wales and will replace the current Wales Spatial Plan.   
• 
National Electricity Transmission System: A high-voltage electric power 
transmission network operated by the National Grid Electricity Transmission. 
• 
National Gas Transmission System:  The high-pressure gas network which 
transports gas from the entry terminals to gas distribution networks, or directly to 
power stations and other large industrial users.  
• 
National Grid Electricity Transmission plc: National Grid Electricity Transmission 
plc’s (NGET) principal operations are the ownership and operation of regulated 
electricity infrastructure networks in the UK, including the National Electricity 
Transmission System.  
• 
National Grid Car Park: Car park located within the Project Site Boundary owned by 
National Grid. 
• 
National Park: A National Park is an area designated for its special landscape rich in 
character and distinctiveness, wildlife history and heritage. 
• 
National Policy Statement: Overarching policy designated under the PA 2008 
concerning the planning and consenting of NSIPs in England and Wales.  
• 
National Nature Reserve: Areas established to protect sensitive features and to 
provide ‘outdoor laboratories’ for research, and managed by Natural England and 
Natural England-approved organisations e.g. the Forestry Commission.  NNRs 
receive statutory protection under the Wildlife & Countryside Act 1981, as amended or 
the National Parks and Access to the Countryside Act 1949. 
• 
Nationally Significant Infrastructure Project: The Power Generation Plant 
constitutes a Nationally Significant Infrastructure Project (NSIP) by virtue of s.14(1)(a) 
and s.15 of the Planning Act 2008 (PA 2008) which include within the definition of a 
NSIP any onshore generating station in England or Wales of 50 MWe capacity or 
more. 
• 
National Transmission System: The National Transmission System is the high 
pressure gas network throughout the United Kingdom which transports gas from the 
entry terminals to gas distribution networks, or directly to power stations and other 
large industrial users.  
• 
Nitrogen deposition: Nitrogen deposition is the term used to describe the input of 
reactive nitrogen to species from the atmosphere to the biosphere.   
• 
Nitrous oxides: Gases produced during combustion, including nitric oxide (NO) and 
nitrogen dioxide (NO2). 
• 
Noise Sensitive Receptor: Property, feature or person which is potentially sensitive 
to impacts from construction and operational noise.   
• 
Oil Pipeline: A decommissioned underground oil pipeline that crosses the Project 
Site, directly south of the Generating Equipment Site.  
• 
Operation Phase: To include the operation and the on-going maintenance of the 
Project. 
• 
Order Land: The land upon which the Project would be developed, or which would be 
required in order to facilitate the development of the Project.  
 
 
15 
 
• 
Order Limits: The limits shown on the Works Plans (Document Reference 2.3) within 
which the development authorised by the DCO (the Power Generation Plant) may be 
carried out. 
• 
Outline Construction Environmental Management Plan: Sets out the approach 
towards, and framework for, environmental management during the construction 
phase (including site preparation) and to provide mitigation against potentially adverse 
construction impacts on environmental resources, local residents and businesses, 
included Appendix 3.1 of the ES, Document Reference 6.2. 
• 
Outline Construction Traffic Management Plan: The CTMP provides a framework 
for addressing the transport issues associated with the movement of construction 
traffic to serve the construction of the Project included Appendix 3.3a of the ES, 
Document Reference 6.2. 
• 
Outline Construction Staff Travel Plan: Travel Plans are a way of promoting 
sustainable travel behaviour through a range of mechanisms, initiatives and targets 
that when combined can help to reduce unnecessary travel and encourage journeys 
to be undertaken in a more environmentally sustainable way. The CSTP is a strategic 
document that outlines the management of staff movements during the various stages 
of the construction process. An outline CSTP is included in Appendix 3.3b of the ES, 
Document Reference 6.2. 
• 
Outline Drainage Strategy: A document outlining the approach to onsite surface 
water and foul water drainage. An Outline Drainage Strategy for the Project is included 
as Appendix E to the Flood Consequences Assessment (ES Appendix 9.1, Document 
Reference 6.2).  
• 
Outline Surface Water Management Plan: A management plan detailing 
construction and operation practices to manage surface water. A Surface Water 
Management Plan for the Project is outlined in the CEMP (ES Appendix 3.1).  
• 
Particulate matter: Solid particles or liquid droplets suspended or carried in the air.   
• 
Peaking Plant: Peaking Plants are used to provide back up or additional electricity 
supply to the NETS, for example, at times when there is a stress event on the system.  
• 
PIG Trap Facility: Pipeline Inspection Gauge (PIG) traps allow PIGs to be inserted 
into and removed from a pipeline which is to undergo maintenance, testing or 
commissioning. 
• 
Pipeline Inspection Gauge: A device used to perform various maintenance 
operations on a pipeline. 
• 
Phase 1 Habitat Survey: An ecological survey technique that provides a standardised 
system to record vegetation and wildlife habitats. It enables a basic assessment of 
habitat type and its potential importance for nature conservation. 
• 
Phase 1 statutory consultation: Initial phase of statutory consultation pursuant to 
s42, s47 and s48 of the PA 2008, undertaken in 2014.   
• 
Phase 2 statutory consultation: Second phase of statutory consultation pursuant to 
s42, s47 and s48 of PA 2008 undertaken in 2018.   
• 
Photomontage: A type of visualisation or illustration that is based on photographs that 
simulates the likely appearance of a proposed development in the photographic view.  
Photomontages are used as illustrations of the professional judgement of a landscape 
 
 
16 
 
professional as to the significance of the effect of a project on landscape and visual 
receptors. 
• 
Planning Act 2008: UK legislation governing applications for Development Consent, 
under which an Examining Authority is appointed to examine applications and make 
recommendations for a decision by the relevant Secretary of State (the Secretary of 
State for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy in the case of energy NSIP 
applications). 
• 
The Planning Inspectorate: The government agency responsible for pre-application 
advice and administrative support during Examination of applications for Development 
Consent Orders. 
• 
Planning Policy Wales: Planning Policy Wales (Edition 9, November 2016) (PPW) 
and associated Technical Advice Notes (TAN) sets out the land use planning policies 
of the Welsh Government. 
• 
Power Generation Plant: Generating Equipment, Access Road, Laydown Area, 
Maintenance Compound, Ecological Mitigation Area, permanent parking and 
drainage.  
• 
Project: The Power Generation Plant, Gas Connection and Electrical Connection.  
• 
Project Site: The entire area covered by or required in order to deliver the Project. 
The Project Site corresponds to the Order Land. 
• 
Project Site Boundary: The perimeter of the Project Site. 
• 
Public Right of Way: An easement granted or reserved for the public over the surface 
of the land without impediment. Public Rights of Way include public footpaths, 
bridleways and byways open to all traffic as well as Restricted Byways.   
• 
Ramsar site: A wetland site designated of international importance under the Ramsar 
Convention. 
• 
Receptor: A component of the natural, created, or built environment such as a human 
being, water, air, a building, or a plant that has the potential to be affected by the 
Project. 
• 
Reciprocating Gas Engine: An engine that employs the expansion of hot gases to 
push a piston within a cylinder, converting the linear movement of the piston into the 
rotating movement of a crankshaft to generate power. 
• 
Residual effect: Those effects of a development that remain following the 
implementation of mitigation measures.  
• 
Rochdale Envelope: The Rochdale cases provide the basis upon which a project can 
be described by a series of maximum and minimum extents (or parameters). These 
parameters form an ‘envelope’ within which the detailed design of the Project can be 
progressed.  Where the Rochdale Envelope is used, the parameters allow an 
assessment of the "worst case" environmental effects in the ES. The Rochdale 
Envelope approach has been used for the Project and the relevant parameters 
assessed in the EIA for the Project.  
• 
Scheduled Monument: A building included in the Schedule of Monuments compiled 
under Section 1 of the Ancient Monuments, and Archaeological Area Act 1979. 
Scheduled Monuments have statutory protection under this Act (Section 2) and an 
application for Scheduled Monument Consent must be made to Cadw if work to a 
Scheduled Monument is proposed.   
 
 
17 
 
• 
Scoping: An exercise undertaken pursuant to Regulation 8 of the EIA Regulations to 
determine the topics to be addressed within the ES. 
• 
Scoping Opinion: The EIA Scoping Opinion for the Project issued by the Secretary 
of State dated August 2014. 
• 
Scoping Report: The Scoping Report for the Project prepared by the Applicant and 
dated June 2014. 
• 
Screening: Consideration as to whether an EIA is necessary for a project, as required 
by the EIA Regulations. 
• 
Scrub: Vegetation consisting of stunted trees, bushes and other plants. 
• 
Secondary A Aquifer: Permeable layers capable of supporting water supplies at a 
local rather than strategic scale, and in some cases, forming an important source of 
base flow to rivers.   
• 
Secretary of State: The decision maker for an NSIP application. 
• 
Sensitivity: A term applied to specific receptors, combining judgements of the 
susceptibility of the receptor to the specific type of change or development proposed 
and the value related to that receptor. 
• 
Site of Importance for Nature Conservation: Also known as Local Wildlife Sites, 
SINCs are designated to raise awareness of the importance for wildlife particularly 
with regard to planning and land management decision making.  
• 
Site of Special Scientific Interest: A site statutorily notified under the Wildlife and 
Countryside Act 1981 (as amended) as being of special nature conservation or 
geological interest. SSSIs include wildlife habitats, geological features and landforms.  
• 
Special Area of Conservation: Areas of protected habitats and species as defined 
in the European Union’s Habitats Directive (92/43/EEC). 
• 
Special Protection Area: Classified for rare and vulnerable birds, and for regularly 
occurring migratory species, as defined in the EC Birds Directive (2009/147/EC). 
• 
Species: A group of organisms that seldom or never interbreed with individuals in 
other such groups, under natural conditions; most species are made up of subspecies 
or populations.  
• 
Source Protection Zone:  Source Protection Zones are defined for groundwater 
sources such as wells, boreholes and springs used for public drinking water supply.  
These zones show the risk of contamination from any activities that might cause 
pollution in the area. 
• 
Stack: The structure by which the exhaust gases and waste heat are emitted to the 
atmosphere. The height of the stack for the Project would be between 35 m – 45 m 
and would contain a silencer to reduce noise emissions. The exhaust gases would be 
subject to emissions control abatement.  
• 
Strategic Sites: These are cumulative schemes which have been identified by CCS 
in their Local Development Plan. 
• 
Substation: The Swansea North Substation. 
• 
Sustainable Drainage System: Sustainable management practices designed to 
control the rate and quality of surface water runoff into receiving waters, for example 
 
 
18 
 
the use of swales and wetlands as buffers, as opposed to conventional drainage 
practices. 
• 
Transport Assessment: A quantitative assessment of the transport effects of 
construction, decommissioning and operational phases of the Project within ES 
Chapter 12: Traffic, Transport and Access (Document Reference 6.1).  
• 
Topography: The natural or artificial features, level and surface form of the ground 
surface. 
• 
Town and Country Planning Act 1990: The Town and Country Planning Act 1990 
regulates the development of land in England and Wales. 
• 
UK Air Quality Strategy: A strategy introduced by the Government to provide a clear 
framework for improving air quality in the UK. 
• 
Visual amenity: The value of a particular area or view in terms of what is seen. 
• 
Visual effect: Change in the appearance of the landscape from available viewpoints 
as a result of development.  
• 
Visual receptors: Individuals and/or defined groups of people who have the potential 
to be affected by the visual appearance of a development. 
• 
Wales Act 2017: The Wales Act 2017 transfers decision-making power to the Welsh 
government in relation to electricity generating stations up to a capacity of 350MW. 
• 
Water Main: An underground water pipeline that crosses the Project Site, directly 
south of the Generating Equipment Site. 
• 
Works Number: A works number relates to the corresponding Work in Schedule 1 of 
the draft DCO (Document Reference 3.1) and shown on the Works Plans (Document 
Reference 2.3). 
• 
Written Scheme of Investigation: An archaeological method statement describing 
known and potential archaeological features and deposits and proposes a scheme for 
exploring them. 
• 
Zone of Theoretical Visibility: Areas from which a specified element of a 
development may be visible. Hence, the development would not visible beyond the 
ZTV. 
