Chapter 4
Approach to Environmental Impact
Assessment
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 4: APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
4-1 
 
CONTENTS 
4. 
Approach to Environmental Impact Assessment ................................................ 2 
4.1 Introduction ............................................................................................... 2 
4.2 EIA Regulations ......................................................................................... 2 
4.3 Environmental Impact Assessment ........................................................... 4 
4.4 Environmental Baseline ............................................................................. 9 
4.5 Assessment Methodology ....................................................................... 10 
4.6 Assumptions and Limitations ................................................................... 14 
4.7 Cumulative and In-Combination Effects .................................................. 15 
4.8 Residual Effects ...................................................................................... 22 
4.9 Consultation and Engagement ................................................................ 23 
4.10 References .............................................................................................. 24 
 
TABLES 
Table 4-1: Compliance with EIA Regulations .............................................................. 2 
Table 4-2: Items Scoped out of the EIA ...................................................................... 6 
Table 4-3: Generic Guidelines for the assessment of value/ sensitivity ..................... 11 
Table 4-4: Generic Guidelines for the assessment of magnitude ............................. 12 
Table 4-5: Classification of effects ............................................................................ 12 
Table 4-6: Projects considered with the cumulative assessment .............................. 16 
 
FIGURES 
Figure 4.1: Developments to be Considered in Cumulative Assessment 
 
APPENDICES 
Appendix 4.1: Scoping Report 
Appendix 4.2: Scoping Opinion 
Appendix 4.3: Consultation Responses 
 
 
 
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 4: APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
4-2 
 
4. 
Approach to Environmental Impact Assessment 
4.1 
Introduction 
4.1.1 
The purpose of this chapter is to provide a more detailed description of the EIA 
process, as well as outlining the methodology and relevant guidance used to 
undertake the preliminary EIA and the structure of the remainder of this PEIR.  
4.2 
EIA Regulations  
4.2.1 
The Infrastructure Planning (Environmental Impact Assessment) Regulations 2009 
(the ‘EIA Regulations’) require an EIA to be carried out in respect of any 
development listed in Schedule 1 to the EIA Regulations (‘Schedule 1 
development’). The Project is a Schedule 1 development as it is a thermal 
generating station with a heat output1 of 300 MW or more as listed in Schedule 1, 
paragraph 2(1) of the EIA Regulations.   
4.2.2 
The Project falls under the EIA Regulations and not the Infrastructure Planning 
(Environmental Impact Assessment) Regulations 2017 (EIA Regulations 2017). 
This is because a scoping opinion was requested from the Secretary of State under 
the EIA Regulations before the commencement of the EIA Regulations 2017. This 
means that, in accordance with the transitional arrangements at Regulation 37 of 
the EIA Regulations 2017, the EIA Regulations will continue to apply to the Project. 
a) Compliance with EIA Regulations 
4.2.3 
The information to be included in an ES is set out in Schedule 4 of the EIA 
Regulations. Part 1 of the Schedule details the information that the applicant can 
reasonably be required to provide, whilst Part 2 identifies the information that the 
applicant must provide. This information is highlighted in Table 4-1 below, which 
also provides confirmation of where the information is provided within this PEIR. 
Table 4-1: Compliance with EIA Regulations 
Required Content of Environmental Statements 
Relevant Chapter of 
this ES 
Part 1 
1. Description of the development, including in particular  
(a) a description of the physical characteristics of the whole 
development 
and 
the 
land-use 
requirements 
during 
the 
construction and operational phases; 
Chapter 3: Project Site 
and Description 
(b) a description of the main characteristics of the production 
processes, for instance, nature and quantity of the materials 
used; 
Chapter 3: Project Site 
and Description 
(c) an estimate, by type and quantity, of expected residues and 
emissions (water, air and soil pollution, noise, vibration, light, 
Detail 
provided 
in 
Technical Chapters 6 – 
                                                                                                                     
1 Thermal output is commonly defined as the amount of ‘useable heat’ which is produced as part of the process of the combustion of fuel. 
Only a part of this useable heat can be converted to electrical energy, which is why this is a larger value than electrical output. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 4: APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
4-3 
 
Required Content of Environmental Statements 
Relevant Chapter of 
this ES 
heat, radiation, etc.) resulting from the operation of the proposed 
development. 
15 
2. An outline of the main alternatives studied by the applicant and 
an indication of the main reasons for the applicant's choice, 
taking into account the environmental effects. 
Chapter 5: Alternatives 
Considered.  
3. A description of the aspects of the environment likely to be 
significantly affected by the development, including, in particular, 
population, fauna, flora, soil, water, air, climatic factors, material 
assets, including the architectural and archaeological heritage, 
landscape and the inter-relationship between the above factors. 
Detail provided in the 
Technical Chapters 6 – 
15 
4. A description of the likely significant effects of the development 
on the environment, which should cover the  
direct effects and any indirect, secondary, cumulative, short, 
medium and long-term, permanent and temporary, positive and 
negative effects of the development, resulting from: 
(a) the existence of the development; 
(b) the use of natural resources; 
(c) the emission of pollutants, the creation of nuisances and  
the elimination of waste, and the description by the applicant of 
the forecasting methods used to assess the effects on the 
environment. 
Detail 
provided 
in 
Technical Chapters 6 – 
15 
5. A description of the measures envisaged to prevent, reduce 
and where possible offset any significant adverse effects on the 
environment. 
Detail 
provided 
in 
Chapter 
3, 
Technical 
Chapters 6 – 15 and 
Chapter 16 (including 
Mitigation Schedule – 
Appendix 3.1) 
6. A non-technical summary of the information provided under 
Paragraphs 1 to 5 of this Part. 
Separate Non-Technical 
Summary Report 
7. An indication of any difficulties (technical deficiencies or lack of 
know-how) encountered by the applicant in compiling the 
required information. 
Detail 
provided 
in 
Chapter 4 and Technical 
Chapters 6 – 15 and 
Mitigation 
Schedule 
(Appendix 3.1) 
Part 2 
1. A description of the development comprising information on the 
site, design and size of the development. 
Chapter 3: Project and 
Site Description 
2. A description of the measures envisaged in order to avoid, 
reduce and, if possible, remedy significant adverse effects 
Mitigation 
detailed 
in 
Chapter 
3, 
Technical 
Chapters 6 – 15 and 
Chapter 16 
3. The data required to identify and assess the main effects which Baseline data provided 
in Technical Chapters 6 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 4: APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
4-4 
 
Required Content of Environmental Statements 
Relevant Chapter of 
this ES 
the development is likely to have on the environment. 
– 15 
4. An outline of the main alternatives studied by the applicant and 
an indication of the main reasons for the applicant's choice, 
taking into account the environmental effects. 
Chapter 5: Alternatives 
Considered 
5. A non-technical summary of the information provided under 
paragraphs 1 to 4 of this Part. 
Separate Non-Technical 
Summary Report 
4.3 
Environmental Impact Assessment 
4.3.1 
EIA is the process of identifying, evaluating and, where possible, mitigating the 
likely significant environmental effects of a proposed development. It promotes the 
early identification and evaluation of the potentially significant environmental effects 
of a proposed development and enables appropriate mitigation (that is measures to 
avoid, reduce or offset significant adverse effects) to be identified and incorporated 
into the design of a development, or commitments to be made to environmentally 
sensitive construction methods and practices. 
4.3.2 
The results of the EIA also ensure that decision makers such as the SoS and 
statutory consultees such as planning authorities, in this case CCS, as well as 
other interested parties, including local communities, are aware of a Project’s 
environmental effects. These are then taken into account by the decision-maker 
prior to determination of an application for planning approval. 
4.3.3 
The main steps outlined in the PA 2008 and the EIA Regulations are as follows: 
 
Production of a Scoping Report to identify the likely significant effects (scoped 
in) and the proposed methodology for their assessment in line with relevant 
legislation, guidance and methods, and justification for any significant effects 
that are not likely (scoped out). The Scoping Report will also seek agreement of 
study areas, data sources, survey methodologies and terminology; 
 
Baseline surveys are undertaken to identify and describe the environmental 
character of the area that could potentially be affected by the Project. Where 
baseline data indicates major constraints to the Project, this information is to be 
provided to the design team immediately; 
 
Relevant natural and manmade processes that may change the character of 
the site are identified; 
 
Consideration is then given to the possible interactions between the 
Development and both existing and future site conditions. These interactions or 
impacts are assessed using set criteria based on accepted guidance and good 
practice; 
 
Using the initial designs of the Project, the likely significant environmental 
effects, both direct and indirect, can be established;  
 
Production of a Preliminary Environmental Information report for consultation 
purposes; 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 4: APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
4-5 
 
 
Recommendations are made to avoid, minimise or mitigate adverse effects and 
enhance positive effects. Alterations to the design will then be reassessed and 
the significance of likely residual environmental impacts ascertained; and 
 
Following statutory consultation, the results of the EIA in combination with the 
responses to the Scoping Opinion will be set out in an ES that will accompany 
the proposed DCO Application. 
4.3.4 
This PEIR summarises the environmental impact assessment undertaken to date 
and has sought to address comments that were raised by consultees and 
stakeholders during statutory consultation carried out under s42 and s47 of the PA 
2008. These comments are addressed within each individual technical chapter as 
necessary.  
a) Scoping  
4.3.5 
Scoping involves focusing the EIA on those issues of greatest potential 
significance. It is an important tool for identifying the likely significant environmental 
effects of a project through its design, construction and operation and 
decommissioning phases and ensures that appropriate mitigation options are 
considered, where necessary. 
4.3.6 
APL requested a Scoping Opinion from the SoS in July 2014. The request was 
supported by a Scoping Report that described the anticipated likely significant 
environmental issues requiring detailed evaluation as part of the EIA process. The 
formal Scoping Opinion was received in August 2014. It has allowed for agreement 
on the potential likely significant environmental effects of the Project and, therefore, 
the aspects of the environment on which the EIA should focus. 
4.3.7 
The Scoping Report and Opinion can be found on the Planning Inspectorate’s 
website2 and APL’s website3 as well as at Appendix 4.1 and 4.2. APL’s responses 
to the matters raised in the Scoping Opinion and later consultation and 
engagement are set out in Appendix 4.3. 
4.3.8 
Further consultation with those organisations that commented on the Scoping 
Report, as well as the Community Councils, was also carried out between August 
2014 and January 2015 including: 
 
Natural Resources Wales (NRW); 
 
South and West Wales Wildlife Trust (SWWWT); 
 
Abertawe Bro Morgannwy; 
 
Civil Aviation Authority (CAA); 
 
Ministry of Defence (MoD); 
 
Cadw; 
 
Brecon Beacons National Park Authority; 
 
City and County of Swansea Council (CCS); 
 
Network Rail; and 
                                                                                                                     
2 https://infrastructure.planninginspectorate.gov.uk/ 
3 http://www.abergellipower.co.uk 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 4: APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
4-6 
 
 
The Coal Authority. 
4.3.9 
Regular meetings were held with CCS to discuss the progress of the application for 
development consent and to consult with the different departments within CCS 
including Environmental Health and ecology. 
4.3.10 The consultation process has led to the general agreement with all organisations 
that the preliminary EIA reported on in this PEIR will consider the following 
environmental topics: 
 
Air Quality; 
 
Noise; 
 
Ecology; 
 
Landscape; 
 
Water Quality and Resources; 
 
Geology and Hydrogeology; 
 
Traffic, Transport and Access; 
 
Archaeology and Cultural Heritage; and 
 
Socio-economics. 
4.3.11 Chapter 15: Other Effects has also been included in the PEIR and covers issues 
which are not covered within the standard topic chapters but which have emerged, 
through the consultation process, as matters that need to be addressed. 
4.3.12 Table 4-2 discusses the items that have been scoped out of the assessment, but 
fall under the above topic areas. 
Table 4-2: Items Scoped out of the EIA 
Topic / Scope 
Justification 
Transboundary 
Effects 
Due to the design, proposed mitigation and implementation of best 
practice measures, it is considered that there will be no significant 
transboundary effects caused by the Project that will affect any other 
European Economic Area State. A Transboundary Screening 
assessment has been undertaken by the SoS which confirms this 
approach. 
Air 
Quality 
[Electrical or Gas 
Connections] 
No impacts on local air quality are anticipated from the operation of 
the Electrical or Gas Connections and therefore this has not been 
assessed. The SoS agreed with this approach in the Scoping Opinion 
(paragraph 3.8, Appendix 4.3). 
Vibration 
The identified plant/equipment items to be used are not recognised 
as sources of high levels of vibration and therefore operation and 
decommissioning vibration has not been assessed. The SoS did not 
disagree with this approach in the Scoping Opinion (Appendix 4.3). 
Noise [Electrical or 
Gas Connections] 
The Gas and Electrical Connections will be buried underground and 
therefore it is not anticipated that they will generate any noise or 
vibration during operation. Therefore, these elements have not been 
assessed. The SoS partly agreed with this approach in the Scoping 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 4: APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
4-7 
 
Topic / Scope 
Justification 
Opinion (paragraph 3.8, Appendix 4.2) but requested further 
justification of the approach. Further justification is set out in Chapter 
7: Noise and Vibration. 
Landscape 
[Gower 
AONB] 
The Gower AONB is physically remote from the Project Site, being 10 
km away and visually separated from the Project Site by intervening 
topography, and views are diminished by distance. It has therefore 
been scoped out of the assessment due to the physical and visual 
separation and this is shown on Figure 11.8.  
Landscape [Brecon 
Beacons 
National 
Park] 
The Brecon Beacons National Park lies over 15 km to the north of the 
Project Site and, due to the intervening distance, is both physically 
and visually separate. Both protected landscapes have been scoped 
out of the assessment due to the physical and visual separation. This 
approach has been agreed with the Brecon Beacons National Park 
Authority at the request of the SoS (paragraph 3.66, Appendix 4.3). 
Water Quality and 
Resources 
[Electrical or Gas 
Connections] 
Effects on water quality and resources during operation and 
decommissioning of the Gas and Electrical Connections are unlikely 
to occur and have been scoped out of the chapter (Chapter 9: Water 
Quality and Resources). Ground levels along the route corridor of 
the Gas and Electrical Connections will be very similar to existing 
levels and any ongoing maintenance will be negligible, as described 
in Section 3.9. The impacts during the operation phase are therefore 
considered to be limited to the presence of the trench if it has 
different hydraulic properties to the surrounding natural ground. This 
can be mitigated through careful selection and placing of bedding and 
backfill material to try and match the natural ground as far as 
possible. Transport of pollutants associated with previous land uses 
is addressed in Chapter 10: Geology, Ground Conditions, and 
Hydrogeology. 
Water Quality and 
Resources [AGI] 
The AGI will have a small footprint and the design will include 
appropriate SuDS measures for control and treatment of surface 
water runoff in accordance with the drainage strategy for the Project 
Site. There will be no effluent discharges for the Gas Connection. The 
Gas Connection lies north of the Generating Equipment Site where 
flood risks are low, and will be mitigated through raised ground levels 
where necessary. No comments were received at Scoping stage 
therefore this has been scoped out of the assessment.  
Carbon 
Capture 
Readiness 
With a rated electrical output of less than 300MW, the Project will be 
below the threshold set out in Directive 2009/31/EC (as transposed 
by The Carbon Capture Readiness (Electricity Generating Stations) 
Regulations 2013) and NPS EN-1 and EN-2. Operators of 
combustion plants which are above this threshold are required to 
have assessed the feasibility of: a storage site, transport facilities and 
economic considerations of the capture of CO2
 produced as a result 
of the combustion process. As a result it is not necessary to assess 
the viability of CO2 capture in this PEIR. 
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 4: APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
4-8 
 
b) Preliminary Environmental Information Report 
4.3.13 Under Regulation 10(b) of the EIA Regulations the applicant must consult on 
preliminary environmental information relating to the Project. In 2014, this 
information was compiled into a Preliminary Environmental Information Report 
(2014 PEIR) (Ref. 4.1), which provided the environment information collected part 
of the way through the EIA process as well as an assessment, on a preliminary 
basis, of the likely significant environmental effects of the Project. 
4.3.14 The 2014 PEIR was compiled along with the 2014 PEIR NTS to accompany APL’s 
statutory consultation with both the local community and prescribed consultees in 
advance of submitting its DCO Application. 
4.3.15 Feedback received during the consultation process has helped further inform and 
refine the development of the design of the Project and the EIA process. More 
detailed analysis of this will be included within the Consultation Report to be 
submitted with the proposed DCO Application however a summary of a selection of 
the main themes is as follows: 
 
Site selection; 
 
Landscape; 
 
Transport and traffic; 
 
Socio-economics; 
 
Air quality and Noise; and  
 
Water. 
4.3.16 This PEIR has evolved from the 2014 PEIR. This PEIR includes an updated 
preliminary environmental assessment and provides more information on how the 
Project has developed since the Phase 1 consultation in 2014.  
4.3.17 In order to aid the reader, this PEIR highlights where the technical assessments 
have been updated, either as a result of the Project evolution and / or due to an 
update in environmental baseline information which has been collated since 2014. 
Within the Introduction section to each technical chapter, a short summary of any 
changes which have been undertaken has been included where necessary.  
Further detailed information on the design changes to the Project is included in 
Chapter 5: Alternatives Considered.  
4.3.18 All chapters provide a technical conclusion to the impact assessment in this PEIR. 
However the following chapters provide a “Next Steps” section which identifies any 
further or outstanding works which will be undertaken between the publication of 
this PEIR and the DCO Application: 
 
Chapter 8: Ecology 
 
Chapter 11: Landscape & Visual;  
 
Chapter 12: Traffic, Transport and Access; and 
 
Chapter 13: Historic Environment.  
 
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 4: APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
4-9 
 
4.4 
Environmental Baseline 
4.4.1 
In undertaking an EIA for any project, it is important to identify the environmental 
baseline for the potential receptors which may be affected. This has allowed the 
effects of the Project to be compared and/or combined with the existing baseline in 
order to ensure an informed assessment of the potential effects of the Project and 
to allow the identification of the most appropriate mitigation which could be 
employed to minimise any identified likely significant adverse effects. 
4.4.2 
To establish the baseline, a study area that is appropriate for each assessment 
topic is identified which takes into consideration the surrounding context and the 
likely scale and range of potential significant effects. Next, a range of environmental 
data has been gathered from a combination of sources in respect of the study area 
in order to inform the preliminary assessment. This has included: 
 
Documentary information on the Project Site, Gas Connection and Electrical 
Connection, and their surroundings within each relevant study area, including 
information available from the previous EIA work for other projects; 
 
Field survey information, including: Phase 2 ecological surveys; landscape 
character 
assessments; 
background 
noise 
levels; 
ground 
conditions/contaminated land assessments, location of sensitive receptors and 
traffic levels on the road network; and 
 
Data held by both statutory and non-statutory consultees. 
4.4.3 
It is anticipated that the construction of the Project will commence in early 2020. 
The assessment has therefore used a '2020 baseline' to provide a future baseline 
against which the assessment is undertaken. As such a number of developments 
are considered in the assessment of effects, where those already have planning 
permission and are expected to be constructed in the next three years. Cumulative 
Projects have been agreed with CCS and are listed in Table 4-6. 
4.5 
Realistic Worst Case Scenario for Assessment 
4.5.1 
In accordance with PINS Advice Note 9 (Rochdale Envelope) (Ref. 4.2), the 
assessments presented in the PEIR are based on an assessment of the realistic 
'worst case' scenario arising from the Project parameters described in Table 3-3. 
This allows flexibility for APL whilst ensuring that the likely significant environmental 
effects are identified and adequately assessed. The realistic worst case scenario is 
set out in each topic chapter for clarity and transparency. 
4.5.2 
Taking the above into consideration, it has been determined that for all topic areas 
to be addressed in the EIA except air quality, the highest stack height (45 m) 
represents the 'worst case'. For air quality the minimum stack heights of 35 m 
represent the 'worst case' due to lower dispersion. The PEIR contains an 
explanation in each chapter of why the scenario assessed represents the worst 
case for that topic. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 4: APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
4-10 
 
4.5.3 
For the assessment, it has been assumed that the Generating Equipment will 
operate for a worst case of 2,250 hours per year in the noise and air quality 
assessments, although actually running for 1,500 hours over an average of 5 years 
In the noise assessment, it is assumed that the Generating Equipment will operate 
at night to represent the worst case scenario. Where there is the possibility that 
intermittent operation could give rise to more significant effects than continuous 
operation (for example start-up noise) this has been considered in the noise and air 
quality assessments, as well as disturbance to ecological receptors in the 
ecological assessment. This issue is not relevant to any other topic chapters. 
4.6 
Assessment Methodology 
4.6.1 
Methodologies for each subject area are presented within each of the technical 
chapters. These methodologies are based upon recognised good practice and 
guidelines specific to each subject area, and take into account any consultation 
responses relating to the methods used in the 2014 PEIR, the SoS Scoping 
Opinion and any additional requirements that have been identified in connection 
with the Project. 
a) Assessment of Effects 
4.6.2 
The approach is broadly the same for all specialist topic areas with some variation 
in the descriptions of assessment criteria. For each topic, the assessment of 
significance will be informed by the sensitivity of the existing or baseline 
environmental conditions or character, and the magnitude of the change to the 
existing conditions or baseline character which occur as a result.  
4.6.3 
The determination of the significance of the likely environmental effects arising from 
development is a key stage in the EIA process. To assess the overall significance of 
an effect it is necessary to establish the magnitude of the effect occurring (i.e. the 
change to the existing baseline conditions as a result of the Project) and the 
sensitivity or importance of the receiving environment or receptor. Assessment of 
significance for environmental topics will combine professional judgement with the 
consideration of a number of factors including: 
 
The probability of the effect occurring based on the scale of certain, likely or 
unlikely; 
 
The sensitivity and value of the resource or receptor under consideration; 
 
The magnitude of the impact in relation to the degree of change which occurs 
as result (which includes the duration of the effect – short medium or long 
term); 
 
Reversibility of the effect; 
 
Comparison with legal requirements, policies and standards; and 
 
Comparison with applicable environmental thresholds. 
4.6.4 
The value of the receptors is assessed according to the relative importance of 
existing environmental features on or near to the site, or by the sensitivity of 
receptors i.e. whether they are likely to be robust enough to be unaffected by the 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 4: APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
4-11 
 
Project or alternatively are highly susceptible to the type of effects likely to occur. 
Criteria for the determination of sensitivity or value of receptors are established 
based on approved guidance, legislation, statutory designation and/or professional 
judgment. 
i. 
Sensitivity or value of Receptors 
4.6.5 
Table 4-3 provides general definitions of the sensitivity criteria used within the 
assessment. In each specialist chapter of the PEIR, criteria will be explained with 
reference to that particular discipline. 
Table 4-3: Generic Guidelines for the assessment of value/ sensitivity  
Value/ 
sensitivity 
Guidelines 
Very High 
The receptor has little or no ability to absorb change without fundamentally 
altering its present character, is of very high environmental value, or of 
international importance. 
High 
The receptor has low ability to absorb change without fundamentally altering 
its present character, is of high environmental value, or of national 
importance. 
Medium 
The receptor has moderate capacity to absorb change without significantly 
altering its present character, has some environmental value, or is of 
regional importance. 
Low 
The receptor is tolerant of change without detriment to its character, is low 
environmental value, or local importance. 
Negligible 
The receptor is resistant to change and is of little environmental value. 
 
ii. Magnitude of Effect 
4.6.6 
The magnitude of potential effects on environmental baseline conditions is 
identified through consideration of the Project taking into account the scale or 
degree of change from the existing situation as a result of the effect; and the 
duration and reversibility of the effect, as well as consideration of relevant 
legislative or policy standards or guidelines. 
4.6.7 
Table 4-4 provides general definitions of effect magnitude criteria. In each specialist 
chapter of the PEIR, effect magnitude criteria will be explained with reference to 
that particular discipline. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 4: APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
4-12 
 
Table 4-4: Generic Guidelines for the assessment of magnitude 
Magnitude Guidelines 
High 
Total loss or major alteration to key elements/features of the baseline 
conditions such that post development character/composition of baseline 
conditions will be fundamentally changed. 
Medium 
Loss or alteration to one or more key elements/features of the baseline 
conditions such that post development character/composition of the 
baseline conditions will be materially changed. 
Low 
Minor shift away from baseline conditions. Changes arising from the 
alteration 
will 
be 
detectable 
but 
not 
material; 
the 
underlying 
character/composition of the baseline conditions will be similar to the pre-
development situation. 
Negligible 
Very 
little 
change 
from 
baseline 
conditions. 
Change 
is 
barely 
distinguishable, approximating to a “no change” situation. 
 
iii. Assessment of Significance of Effects 
4.6.8 
The approach to the assessment of significance is outlined in Table 4-5. A 
combination of the magnitude of the effect under consideration and the sensitivity 
of the receiving environment determines the significance of effect. 
4.6.9 
It should be noted that this general approach is a framework and should not be 
treated as a matrix. In each specialist chapter of the PEIR, significance of effects 
will be explained with reference to that particular discipline. 
Table 4-5: Classification of effects 
Magnitude 
 
Value and sensitivity of receptor 
Very High 
High 
Medium  
Low 
Negligible 
High 
Major 
Major 
Moderate 
Moderate 
Minor 
Medium 
Major 
Moderate 
Moderate 
Minor 
Negligible 
Low 
Moderate 
Moderate 
Minor 
Negligible 
Negligible 
Negligible 
Minor 
Minor 
Negligible 
Negligible 
Negligible 
4.6.10 The significance of the effects arising from the Project will be reported using a 
seven-point scale, as follows: 
 
Major Adverse; 
 
Moderate Adverse; 
 
Minor Adverse; 
 
Negligible; 
 
Minor Beneficial; 
 
Moderate Beneficial; and 
 
Major Beneficial. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 4: APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
4-13 
 
4.6.11 For some specialist topics, additional categories have been added where a greater 
level of definition is required. 
4.6.12 Effects predicted to be Minor Adverse or Negligible are considered to be 
manageable and are therefore ‘Not Significant’. Effects assessed as Moderate 
Adverse or Major Adverse are considered to be 'Significant'. 
4.6.13 These classifications may differ between the specialist topic chapters, but where 
this occurs, the variation will be explained clearly and fully. 
iv. Types of Effect 
4.6.14 Potential effects have been separated into three types based on the different 
phases of development:  
 
Construction Effects: These are effects that begin and end during the 
construction phase of the Project. This covers the likes of the potential effects 
of construction traffic, noise and vibration from construction, dust generation, 
site runoff, mud on roads, risk of fuel/oil spillage, visual intrusion of machinery 
on site for example. 
 
Operational Effects: Operational effects are those long-term effects that would 
occur as a result of the Project such as the land take associated with 
permanent physical infrastructure as well as effects which occur as a result of 
its operation. 
 
Decommissioning Effects: Decommissioning effects are temporary, short 
term effects that will occur during the removal of the Project at the end of its 25 
year operational life time. 
 
b) Mitigation and Monitoring 
4.6.15 Full consideration has been given to the potential mitigation measures which could 
be used to ensure that any potentially adverse significant environmental effects of 
the Project are minimised. In the hierarchy of mitigation, likely significant adverse 
effects should, in the first instance, be avoided altogether; where this is not possible 
such effects should then reduce and, finally, be off-set. 
4.6.16 Two broad types of potential mitigation measures have been applied in this 
preliminary EIA and are described in the PEIR. 
 
Embedded mitigation: This includes modifications to the location or design of 
the Project made during the pre-application phase that are an inherent part of 
the Project, become a fundamental part of the design for which consent is 
sought, and do not require additional action to be taken (e.g. architectural 
treatment of proposed facilities to be in keeping with similar adjacent buildings 
in its external appearance; reduction in the height of a building to reduce visual 
impact; identifying a key habitat that should remain unaffected by the Project’s 
layout and operation e.g. retaining a hedgerows as bat foraging routes; 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 4: APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
4-14 
 
developing a transport strategy that reduces trips, avoiding the need for 
junction improvements). 
 
Additional mitigation: This is often referred to as ‘additional mitigation’ and 
includes actions that will require further activity in order to achieve the 
anticipated outcome.  These may be imposed as part of the planning consent 
or through inclusion in the PEIR topic chapters (e.g. describing certain lighting 
limits, which will be subject to the submission of a detailed lighting layout as a 
condition of approval; commitment to the implementation of an archaeological 
watching brief).  
4.6.17 These measures are described in the Chapter 3: Project and Site Description, 
and a summary is provided in the topic chapters, where relevant to the topic. 
4.7 
Assumptions and Limitations 
4.7.1 
The following assumptions have been made in each of the topic chapters when 
assessing the Project. 
a) Construction/ Decommissioning 
 
The total construction programme will be approximately 22 months, with a start 
date of early 2020.  
 
The Generating Equipment will be decommissioned and removed at the end of 
its operational life; 
 
The decommissioning phase will be around 22 months; 
 
The underground elements of the Gas and Electrical Connections will be 
capped and left in situ at the end of their operational life to avoid any adverse 
environmental effects associated with their removal; 
 
The design, construction and decommissioning phases of the Project will 
satisfy minimum environmental standards, consistent with contemporary 
legislation, practice and knowledge. 
 
b) Operation 
 
To ensure decommissioning is assessed in principle, the operational life of the 
Power Generation Plant has been assumed to be 25 years; 
 
The Generating Equipment will operate intermittently for up to 2,250 hours per 
annum (1,500 running hours rolling average over 5 years). This could be at any 
time during the year, at any time of day and for any length of time up to but not 
exceeding 2,250 hours; 
 
The Generating Equipment will have a rated electrical output of up to 299 MW; 
 
Existing (2017) surrounding land uses will not change, with the exception of the 
developments to be cumulatively assessed with the Project, which have been 
identified below; 
 
Assessments are based on published sources of information and primary data 
collection; 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 4: APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
4-15 
 
 
Assessments are based on the description of the Project as set out in Chapter 
3: Project and Site Description; and 
 
Any future development of the Project Site will be determined through separate 
planning or application or application for development consent and has not 
been assessed as part of the assessment presented in this PEIR. 
4.7.2 
Each topic chapter sets out any specific additional limitations and assumptions 
relevant to that topic. 
4.8 
Cumulative and In-Combination Effects 
4.8.1 
Schedule 4, Part 1 (paragraph 20) of the EIA Regulations requires an ES to include 
‘…a description of the likely significant effects of the development on the 
environment, which should cover….cumulative effects’.   
4.8.2 
Cumulative and in-combination effects on specific resources or receptors are 
described, where relevant, in each of the specialist chapters of this PEIR. 
4.8.3 
Cumulative effects may occur where, for example, landscape and visual resources, 
land use or ecological receptors are affected by other developments in addition to 
the Project i.e. two effects which are not significant could combine to result in a 
potential cumulative effect which is significant. 
4.8.4 
In consultation with CCS, it has been confirmed that there are 34 projects with the 
potential to cause cumulative effects. Discussions with CCS have been undertaken 
to determine the potential for any inter-project cumulative effects. Cumulative and 
in-combination effects have been defined and considered within this preliminary 
EIA and are assessed in Chapter 17: Cumulative Effects.  
4.8.5 
Developments which may need to be considered within the cumulative assessment 
(in accordance with paragraph 86 of DCLG guidance and PINS Advice Note 17 
(AN17) (Version 1, December 2015) include those that are: 
 
In the process of being built; 
 
Permitted application(s) but not yet implemented; 
 
Submitted application(s) not yet determined; 
 
Projects on the National Infrastructure’s programme of projects; 
 
Projects identified in the relevant development plan (and emerging 
development plants – with appropriate weight being given as they move closer 
to adoption) recognising that information on the relevant proposals will be 
limited; and 
 
Projects identified in other plans and programmes (as appropriate) which set 
the framework for future DCOs/approvals, where such development is 
reasonably likely to come forward. 
4.8.6 
Using this approach, the developments listed in Table 4-6 have been identified (see 
Figure 4.1), with a cut-off date of 14th November 2017, and have been agreed with 
CCS. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 4: APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
4-16 
 
Table 4-6: Projects considered with the cumulative assessment  
Planning Application 
Name 
Description 
Under Construction 
1 2006/0773 (varied 
by 2009/1520 and 
2011/1143 ) and 
consecutive 
temporary planning 
permissions 
2007/2513, 
2009/0062, 
2009/1585, 
2011/1311 and 
2014/0913 (varied 
by 2016/1270 ) 
Felindre Business Park 
Strategic business park for B1 and B2 uses to accommodate emerging 
industries, high tech manufacturing, high level services, ancillary uses, 
associated car parking, landscaping and access roads (outline).  The site has 
been laid out and is effectively a serviced site, however no buildings have been 
constructed. 
Park and ride schemes also operate on match days to the Liberty football 
stadium; and for car parking for the Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency 
(DVLA) site in Longview Road, Morriston. 
2 2013/0135  
Abergelli Solar Farm 
Installation of ground mounted array of solar panels, inverter substations and 
2.4 m high fencing on land at Abergelli Farm. This development will be located 
adjacent to the Gas Connection. 
3 2013/0865  
Cefn Betingau Phase 1, 
Morriston 
Construction of 9MW solar park consisting of installation of up to 135,000 
photovoltaic panels and 9 inverter/transformer cabins and a single control 
building 
4 2014/0739   
Gelliwern Isaf solar park  
6MWe solar park at Gelliwern Isaf Farm -installation of a solar PV array, 
construction of a storage room, invertor cabin, a substation, switchgear building 
and fencing 
5 2014/1022   
Brynwhilach Solar Park 
Construction of 12.69MWe solar park consisting of installation of up to 47,000 
photovoltaic panels and 8 inverter/transformer stations, 2 substations, storage 
container, new access tracks, security fencing/cctv and associated equipment 
and infrastructure work. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 4: APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
4-17 
 
Planning Application 
Name 
Description 
6 2007/1250 (varied 
by 2017/0325/S73)  
Former J R Steelworks, 
Bryntywod 
Retention of use of land as timber recycling centre including processing of 
wood, wooden materials, associated plant and machinery and previously tipped 
inert material together with on-site storage of wood chip material, construction 
of building for the dry storage of recycled wood waste and the creation of a 1m 
high clay bund around southern, western and northern boundaries of the site 
without complying with conditions 2, 3, 5, 9, 10, 11, 14 and 16 of planning 
permission 2007/1250 granted 11th December. 
7 2012/1221  
Mynydd y Gwair Wind 
Farm 
Installation of 16 wind turbines (maximum height to blade tip of 127 m with a 
hub height of 80 metres), with a maximum generating capacity of 48MWe, 
associated tracks and ancillary infrastructure. 
Permitted but not implemented 
8 2013/0795   
Tyle Coch Mawr Wind 
Farm  
Installation of four 5 kW wind turbines 20.7 m to tip and associated 
infrastructure. 
9 2013/1835   
Felindre Business Park  
Construction of park and ride/share car park (approximately 480 spaces) with 
new vehicular access, security office, toilet, engineering and associated works, 
including lighting, fencing, drainage attenuation and landscaping. 
10 2015/1529 (appeal 
ref 4369653)  
Llettyr Morfil Farm 
Construction of a 4.9 MW solar park (approx. 8.8 ha) including photovoltaic 
panels, four inverter stations, centre station, new access tracks, security 
fencing, security cameras and associated equipment and infrastructure works.  
Allowed on appeal in June 2016 
11 2015/0308  
Plot 8 Felindre Strategic 
Business Park 
Two/three storey private hospital development with associated landscaping, 
site roads and car parking 
12 2016/1522  
Griffiths Waste 
Management Site, 
Bryntywod Llangyfelach 
Swansea SA5 7LP 
Demolition of existing waste management facility buildings and construction of 
replacement buildings and associated infrastructure 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 4: APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
4-18 
 
Planning Application 
Name 
Description 
13 2008/0912  
Former Walters Yard 
Pontlliw Swansea 
Construction of 67 dwellings with associated access, roads, parking, open 
space and demolition of existing buildings.  Approved with S106 in March 2016. 
Submitted but not determined 
14 2011/0345 
Land at Llewellyn Road, 
Penllergaer 
Construction of up to 200 residential units with associated access (outline).   
15 2012/0721  
Royal Fern Golf Resort 
Application to vary Condition 8 of Outline Planning Permission 2008/0154 to 
extend the period for the submission of the reserved matters for a further three 
years in relation to the proposed development of 18 hole championship and 9 
hole par 3 golf courses, golf club house including health facilities, sauna, 
swimming pool, gymnasium, golf school and academy, 80 golfing lodges, 
approximately 135 housing plots, green keepers flat, associated infrastructure, 
car parking and landscaping (outline).  
16 2014/0977 
Parc Ceirw, 
Cwmrhydyceirw Quarry, 
Swansea 
Proposed cessation of landfill and other operations enabled by residential 
development of circa 300 dwellings, public open space and associated highway 
and ancillary works (outline) 
17 2017/1822/OUT 
Land West Of 
Llangyfelach Road 
Tirdeunaw 
Outline planning application (with all matters reserved apart from strategic 
access junctions) for residential led mixed use development, to be developed in 
phases, including up to 1950 dwellings, link road, local centre provision of a 
primary school, community facilities, Public Open Space including facilities for 
children, and areas of landscaping (including sustainable drainage systems), 
outdoor sports provision including playing pitches, associated services, 
infrastructure and engineering works including new vehicular access, 
improvements to the existing highway network, new roads, footpaths / 
cycleways, and ancillary works. 
18 2016/1478 
Land North Of Garden 
Village Swansea 
Hybrid planning application (with all matters reserved apart from strategic 
access) for residential-led mixed use development, to be developed in phases, 
including approximately 750 residential units; provision of 1 no. Primary school; 
circa 280m2 - 370m2 flexible A1-A3 / D1 floorspace; open space including 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 4: APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
4-19 
 
Planning Application 
Name 
Description 
parks; natural and semi natural green space; amenity green spaces; facilities 
for children and young people; outdoor sports provision including playing 
pitches; associated services, infrastructure and engineering works including 
new vehicular accesses, improvement works to the existing highway network, 
new roads, footpaths/cycleways; landscaping works (including sustainable 
drainage systems), ecological mitigation works and ancillary works. Submitted 
in July 2016 and currently pending determination. (The application would be 
referable to Welsh Ministers if the Council are minded to approve). 
19 2017/0986/FUL 
Former Civic Centre 
Penllergaer Swansea SA4 
9GH 
Construction of 80 no. residential units with associated access and landscaping 
Identified / Allocated (and not referenced above) 
20 UDP Policy EC1(3)  Swansea Vale Strategic 
Mixed-Use Site 
25 ha allocated employment land 
21 UDP Policy 
EC1(10)  
Land at Bryntywod, 
Felindre (Local 
Employment Site) 
15.8 ha allocated employment land 
22 UDP Policy 
EC1(12)  
Penllergaer Business Park 
(Local Employment Site) 
8.2 ha allocated employment land 
23 UDP Policy HC13  
West of Morriston Hospital Hospital related activities 
24 LDP Policy SD G  
Northwest of M4 J46, 
Llangyfelach 
Comprehensive mixed use development of up to 850 homes during the Plan 
period, incorporating a mix of low-medium and high density residential, a new 
district centre with commercial units, primary school, a mix of public realm, 
open space and play provision, new community buildings, and a strategic 
business park 
25 LDP Policy SD A  
South of Glanffrwd Road, 
Comprehensive, residential led, development of up to 720 homes, incorporating 
a primary school, leisure and recreation facilities, public open space and 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 4: APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
4-20 
 
Planning Application 
Name 
Description 
Pontarddulais 
appropriate community facilities, employment and commercial uses 
26 LDP Policy SD C  
South of A4240, 
Penllergaer 
Comprehensive, residential led, mixed use development of up to 750 homes 
during the Plan period (and up to 1,000 homes beyond the Plan period), 
incorporating primary school, leisure and recreation facilities, public realm, 
public open space and appropriate community and commercial uses 
27 LDP Policy SD E  
North of Clasemont Road, 
Morriston 
Comprehensive, residential led, mixed use development of up to 675 homes 
during the Plan period, incorporating primary school, leisure and recreation 
facilities, public realm, public open space and appropriate community and 
commercial uses 
28 LDP Policy SI 4   
Morriston Hospital 
Land adjacent to Morrison Hospital is safeguarded solely for the future 
development and expansion of the Hospital. Development at this location is 
restricted to healthcare related uses in association with the beneficial use of 
Morriston Hospital. Proposals must be delivered alongside appropriate new and 
enhanced highway infrastructure that will significantly improve the existing 
substandard road access leading to the site.  A new access road is proposed 
as part of this proposal (Strategic Transport Strategy Table 9.2) to resolve road 
capacity issues from the roundabout immediately north of M4 J46. 
29 LDP Policies 
RP7  and RP8 , 
paragraph 2.14.28 
(Preferred 
Locations) 
Former Tip Site, Felindre 
Preferred areas for new waste management facilities include the former Tip site 
at Felindre. The site at Felindre is identified specifically for the potential to 
accommodate a Combined Heat and Power (CHP) Facility which could provide 
heat or power for adjacent proposed developments.   
30 LDP Policy H1.11  
Land at Ramsey Road, 
Clydach 
60 dwellings 
31 LDP Policy H1.21  
Land east of Pontarddulais 
Road, Gorseinon 
90 dwellings 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 4: APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
4-21 
 
Planning Application 
Name 
Description 
32 LDP Policy H1.26  
Land at Carmel Road and 
Bryntirion Road, Pontlliw 
100 dwellings 
33 LDP Policy H1.30  
Land north of Llewellyn 
Road, Penllergaer 
50 dwellings 
34 LDP Policy H1.31  
Land at Bolgoed Road, 
Pontarddulais 
50 dwellings 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 4: APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
4-22 
 
4.8.7 
In addition, the Project is located within the Swansea Vale Development Area (UDP 
Policy EC1(3)) and this policy has also been considered for assessment of any 
significant cumulative effects. Swansea Vale is situated approximately 5 km from 
the Project Site and extends to some 190 ha south of a railway line and the M4. 
The assessment has also considered emerging LDP Proposals for settlements at 
the former tinplate works (also allocated for the Felindre Sustainable Urban Village) 
and Penllergaer, and the solar park at Lletty Morfil Farm (CCS Ref: MA0004). 
4.8.8 
The GIS building within the Substation will be extended at its eastern elevation 
(retaining the same height and width as the existing building) in order to facilitate 
the connection of the Project to the NETS. These works will be implemented by 
National Grid and are therefore not part of the DCO Application. 
4.8.9 
Approximately 300 m of 11 kV overhead line crosses the Generating Equipment 
Site from north west to south east at its western boundary. This section of line, 
owned by Western Power Distribution, will be diverted to avoid the Generating 
Equipment Site either above or below ground. This is not to be considered as part 
of the DCO Application, and will be assessment in the cumulative assessment.  
4.8.10 Projects described in Table 4-6 have been considered in the cumulative 
assessment in each of the topic chapters where relevant. 
4.8.11 Paragraph 87 of the DCLG guidance states ‘It may not always be easy for 
applicants to assess potential impacts fully due to lack of available information. In 
such circumstances, applicants should take a pragmatic approach when 
determining what is reasonable and feasible. They should satisfy themselves that 
they have made all reasonable efforts to identify the main impacts and to include 
mitigation in the draft Order.’ The assessment of cumulative effects in each of the 
topic chapters has utilised information in relation to each of the above applications 
where publicly available.  
4.8.12 See Chapter 17: Cumulative Effects for further detail and the assessment. 
4.9 
Residual Effects 
4.9.1 
Effects are concluded to be significant or not significant. In some chapters, 
guidance is used which specifies its own variation to this assessment matrix. This 
will be explained and justified as appropriate. Further detail is provided in each 
technical chapter. 
4.9.2 
Judgements of significance are made based on a combination of perceived value 
and sensitivity of the receptor and the magnitude of change, and will also include, 
where necessary, an element of professional judgement by each of the technical 
specialists. The final evaluation of significance considers the residual effects, 
assuming all mitigation measures are applied. The terminology for expressing 
significance has been outlined in Section 4.6. Where appropriate, any topic-specific 
deviation to this by guidance and best practice is described in the technical 
chapters. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 4: APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
4-23 
 
4.10 
Consultation and Engagement 
a) 
Non-statutory Consultation  
4.10.1 APL engaged with the local community and key stakeholders during an early phase 
of non-statutory consultation between June and September 2014, in advance of the 
commencement of the statutory consultation phase and at a point where the 
Project was still being actively refined. This was at the same time as seeking 
feedback from Statutory Consultees on the Scoping Report. 
4.10.2 Local community representatives at the national, regional and local levels were 
consulted by APL and public exhibitions were held in Clydach, Felindre and Tircoed 
in June 2014. As part of this non- statutory phase of consultation, APL explained 
the rationale and key objectives of the Project, gave reasons why the Project Site 
had been chosen and presented opportunities for written and verbal feedback on 
the early, emerging project concepts. 
4.10.3 Drawing on this early feedback on the proposals, APL was able to consider the 
consultation responses as part of the design development and environmental 
assessment processes. This phase of non-statutory consultation helped to shape 
the development of the Project. This process will be described in detail in the 
Consultation Report that will be submitted with the DCO Application. 
b) Statutory Consultation  
4.10.4 APL conducted a single phase of statutory consultation under s42, s47 and s48 of 
PA 2008 between 13th October 2014 and 16th November 2014. Published in 
September 2014, and agreed with CCS prior to publication, the Statement of 
Community Consultation (SoCC) Notice confirmed where and when the SoCC 
could be inspected by members of the public. Letters inviting comments on the 
Project, including the Preliminary Environmental Information, were sent to s42 
consultees directly. Consultation notices were published in national and local 
newspapers under s48 of the PA 2008. 
4.10.5 The statutory consultation phase also coincided with the publication of the 2014 
PEIR. The 2014 PEIR provided the environmental information collected in the early 
stages of the EIA process as well as an assessment, on a preliminary basis, of the 
likely significant environmental effects of the Project. The 2014 PEIR, together with 
supporting information and a Non-Technical Summary (2014 PEIR NTS), was 
compiled to accompany APL’s statutory consultation with both the local community 
and prescribed consultees in advance of submitting its DCO Application. The 
feedback received relating to the 2014 PEIR has further helped to inform and refine 
the EIA process as well as the design and development of the Project. 
4.10.6 Since the 2014 PEIR there have been changes to the Project resulting from design 
progression, consultation and feasibility. The number of generation units, turbines, 
and stacks have been reduced. This is further described in Chapter 5: 
Alternatives Considered. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 4: APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT 
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
4-24 
 
4.11 
References 
Ref. 4.1 
Abergelli Power Ltd. Preliminary Environmental Report (September 2014). 
Ref. 4.2 
The Planning Inspectorate. Planning Advice Note Nine: Rochdale Envelope. 
(April 2012). 
 
 
 
