 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPPORTING THE DEPLOYMENT OF 
BIOENERGY CARBON CAPTURE AND 
STORAGE (BECCS) IN THE UK: 
BUSINESS MODEL OPTIONS 
A report for Drax 
March 2021 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Frontier Economics Ltd is a member of the Frontier Economics network, which consists of two separate companies based in Europe (Frontier 
Economics Ltd) and Australia (Frontier Economics Pty Ltd). Both companies are independently owned, and legal commitments entered into by 
one company do not impose any obligations on the other company in the network. All views expressed in this document are the views of Frontier 
Economics Ltd. 
 
 
frontier economics  
 
 
 
SUPPORTING THE DEPLOYMENT OF BIOENERGY CARBON CAPTURE AND 
STORAGE (BECCS) IN THE UK: BUSINESS MODEL OPTIONS 
CONTENTS 
Executive Summary 
4 
Business model options 
5 
Conclusions 
7 
1 
Introduction 
8 
1.1 
Why BECCS? 
8 
1.2 
Aims of this report 
9 
2 
Key considerations for business model design 
11 
2.2 
Principles for business model design 
12 
2.3 
Timing and business model evolution 
13 
3 
Business model options 
18 
3.1 
Identifying business model options 
18 
3.2 
Transition paths from short-term business models 
25 
3.3 
Funding of short-term options 
28 
4 
Assessment of business model options 
30 
4.1 
Business model impact on costs and revenues 
30 
4.2 
Business model assessment 
31 
4.3 
Summary 
36 
5 
Conclusions 
37 
ANNEX A Why is it desirable to deliver BECCS in the near term? 
39 
ANNEX B Funding principles and candidate groups 
44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
frontier economics  
4 
 
 
SUPPORTING THE DEPLOYMENT OF BIOENERGY CARBON CAPTURE AND 
STORAGE (BECCS) IN THE UK: BUSINESS MODEL OPTIONS 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
Drax Power Station is currently exploring the option of adding carbon capture and 
storage equipment to its biomass-fired generating units.  The resulting plant could 
produce at least 8 million tonnes (Mt) of negative CO2 emissions each year, as well 
as generating renewable electricity. Drax is planning to make a final investment 
decision (FID) on its bioenergy with carbon capture and storage (‘BECCS in 
power’1) investment in Q1 2024, with the first BECCS unit to be operating by 2027. 
The potential of BECCS as part of the path to Net Zero has been widely 
recognised.  
 BECCS in power is an important part of all of the Climate Change Committee 
(CCC)’s Net Zero scenarios, contributing to negative emissions of between 16-
39Mt CO2e per year by 20502. Investment needs to occur early: by 2035, the 
CCC sees a role for 3-4GW of BECCS, as part of a mix of low carbon 
generation3.  
 The Government’s Energy White Paper commits, by 2022, to establishing the 
role which BECCS can play in reducing carbon emissions across the economy 
and setting out how the technology could be deployed. The Government has 
also committed to invest up to £1 billion to support the establishment of carbon 
capture, usage and storage (CCUS) in four industrial clusters 4.  
 National Grid’s 2020 Future Energy Scenarios (FES) indicate that it is not 
possible to achieve Net Zero without BECCS5. 
However, at present, a business model6 which could enable this investment is not 
in place. A business model is required because a number of barriers and market 
failures otherwise make economic investment impossible.  
 There is no market for negative emissions. There is currently no source of 
remuneration for the value delivered by negative emissions, and therefore no 
return for the investment needed to achieve them. 
 
 
1  
Biomass can be combusted to generate energy (typically in the form of power, but this could also be in the 
form of heat or liquid fuel), or gasified to produce hydrogen. The resulting emissions can then be captured 
and stored using CCS technology. The focus of this report is on biomass combustion to generate power, 
with CCS, which we refer to as ‘BECCS in power’. We refer to biomass gasification with CCS as ‘BECCS for 
hydrogen’. 
2  
CCC (2020) , The Sixth Carbon Budget, Greenhouse Gas Removals, https://www.theccc.org.uk/wp-
content/uploads/2020/12/Sector-summary-GHG-removals.pdf  The CCC’s 2019 Net Zero report also saw a 
role for BECCS, with 51Mt of emissions removals included in the Further Ambition scenario by 2050. CCC 
(2019), Net Zero: The UK’s Contribution to Stopping Global Warming.  
https://www.theccc.org.uk/publication/net-zero-the-uks-contribution-to-stopping-global-warming/  
3  
CCC (2020), Policies for the Sixth Carbon Budget, https://www.theccc.org.uk/wp-
content/uploads/2020/12/Policies-for-the-Sixth-Carbon-Budget-and-Net-Zero.pdf 
4  
BEIS (2020), Powering our Net Zero Future, 
https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/945899/2
01216_BEIS_EWP_Command_Paper_Accessible.pdf  
5  
National Grid (2020), Future Energy Scenarios 2020, https://www.nationalgrideso.com/future-energy/future-
energy-scenarios/fes-2020-documents  
6  
In this report, we use “business model” to describe Government market-based incentives for investment and 
operation. This is in line with the use of this term by BEIS, for example in BEIS (2019), Business Models For 
Carbon Capture, Usage And Storage, 
https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/819648/c
cus-business-models-consultation.pdf 
 
frontier economics  
5 
 
 
SUPPORTING THE DEPLOYMENT OF BIOENERGY CARBON CAPTURE AND 
STORAGE (BECCS) IN THE UK: BUSINESS MODEL OPTIONS 
 Positive spillovers are not remunerated. Positive spillovers that would be 
delivered by a first-of-a-kind BECCS power plant, but which are not 
remunerated include: 
□ providing an anchor load for carbon dioxide (CO2) transport and storage 
(T&S) infrastructure that can be used by subsequent CCS projects; 
□ delivering learning that will help lower the costs of subsequent BECCS 
power plants; and 
□ delivering learning and shared skills that can be used across a range of 
CCS projects, including hydrogen production with CCS. 
 BECCS relies on the presence of CO2 transport and storage 
infrastructure. Where this infrastructure doesn’t already exist, or where the 
availability or costs are highly uncertain, this presents a significant risk to 
investors in BECCS in power. 
Frontier Economics has been commissioned by Drax to develop and evaluate 
business model options for BECCS in power that could overcome these barriers, 
and help deliver timely investment in BECCS.  
Business model options 
We started with a long list of business model options. After eliminating options that 
are unsuitable for BECCS in power, we considered the following three options in 
detail. 
 Power Contract for Difference (CfD): the strike price of the CfD would be set 
to include remuneration for negative emissions, low carbon power and for 
learnings and spillover benefits.  
 Carbon payment: a contractual carbon payment would provide a fixed 
payment per tonne of negative emissions. The payment level would be set to 
include remuneration for negative emissions, low carbon power and for 
learnings and spillovers.  
 Carbon payment + power CfD: this option combines the two options above. 
The carbon payment would provide remuneration for negative emissions and 
learnings and spillovers while the power CfD would support power market 
revenues for the plant’s renewable power output.  
We first considered if committing to any of these business model options for 
BECCS in power now might restrict future policy options for a broader GGR support 
scheme. We assessed whether these options could, over time, be transitioned into 
a broader GGR support scheme (i.e. one not just focused on BECCS in power), 
and concluded that this would be possible for all of them.  
We then considered how these business model options could be funded, and 
whether the choice of a business model option is linked to a particular source of 
funds (for example, power CfDs are currently funded by a levy paid by electricity 
suppliers to the Low Carbon Contracts Company [LCCC]). We concluded that 
business models do not need to be attached to specific funding sources; all of the 
options can be designed to fit with numerous different funding options, so the two 
decisions can be made independently. This means that the business model options 
 
frontier economics  
6 
 
 
SUPPORTING THE DEPLOYMENT OF BIOENERGY CARBON CAPTURE AND 
STORAGE (BECCS) IN THE UK: BUSINESS MODEL OPTIONS 
can be considered on their own terms, with thinking about funding sources being 
progressed in parallel. 
We then evaluated the three business model options against a set of criteria 
developed from principles set out in the BEIS consultation on business models for 
CCS, summarised in the figure below. 
Figure 1 
Principles for design of business models 
 
Source: Frontier Economics 
 
All three business model options performed well across most criteria. However, our 
evaluation highlighted some key trade-offs to consider when choosing a business 
model: 
 investor confidence: the power CfD and the two-part model with a CfD 
performed better than the carbon payment on this measure, as they shield 
investors from wholesale power market fluctuations; 
 feasibility: the power CfD performed best on this measure. Because it is 
already established in existing legislation and is well  understood, it will be quick 
to implement. Introducing a mechanism to provide carbon payments may 
require new legislation. However, this will be needed in any case to support 
other CCUS technologies7, and could be introduced in time before projects 
come online; and   
 potential to become technology neutral and subsidy free:  all three options 
could transition to a mid-term regime which could be technology neutral. 
However, the stand-alone power CfD performed least well as it does not deliver 
any learnings around remunerating negative emissions. 
 
 
7  
BEIS (2020), CCUS: An update on business models for Carbon Capture, Usage and Storage 
https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/946561/c
cus-business-models-commercial-update.pdf 
Fair cost sharing
▪ Allows fair and practical cost distribution
Ease of policy 
transition
▪ Ease of transition to subsidy free system
▪ Ease of transition to technology neutral solution 
Instil investor 
confidence
▪ Attract innovation 
▪ Attract new entrants
▪ Instil supply chain confidence
Cost efficient
▪ Drive efficient management of investment costs
▪ Drive efficient quantity of investment
▪ Drive efficient dispatch and operation
▪ Risks allocated in an efficient way, taking into 
account the impact on the cost of capital
Feasibility 
▪ Limit administrative burden  
▪ Practicality for investors
▪ Requirement for complementary policy
▪ Wider policy and state aid compatibility
▪ Timely implementation
 
frontier economics  
7 
 
 
SUPPORTING THE DEPLOYMENT OF BIOENERGY CARBON CAPTURE AND 
STORAGE (BECCS) IN THE UK: BUSINESS MODEL OPTIONS 
Overall, the two-part model performed well across the criteria and would offer a 
clear path to a technology neutral and subsidy free world, delivering learnings that 
will be relevant for other GGRs as well.   
Conclusions 
The UK’s Net Zero target will be challenging to achieve, and will require investment 
in negative emissions technologies to offset residual emissions from hard-to-abate 
sectors, as highlighted by the CCC8. BECCS in power is a particularly important 
part of this picture, and represents a cost-effective means of delivering the scale 
of negative emissions needed. Early investment in BECCS is also important in 
insuring against the risk and cost of ”back ending” significant abatement effort. 
However, market failures, most notably the lack of a market for negative emissions, 
lack of remuneration for positive spillovers and learnings, and reliance on 
availability of T&S infrastructure, mean that without policy intervention, the required 
level of BECCS in power is unlikely to be delivered in time to contribute to Net Zero. 
There are a number of business options available in the near term to overcome 
these barriers. In our view, a two-part model combining a power CfD and a carbon 
payment is preferable.  
This measure:   
 addresses identified market failures; 
 can be implemented relatively easily and in time to capture benefits of early 
BECCS in power investment; and 
 can be structured to ensure an efficient outcome for customers (including with 
reference to investors’ likely cost of capital) and in a way that allocates risks 
appropriately. 
 
 
 
8  
CCC (2020) , The Sixth Carbon Budget, Greenhouse Gas Removals, https://www.theccc.org.uk/wp-
content/uploads/2020/12/Sector-summary-GHG-removals.pdf  
 
frontier economics  
8 
 
 
SUPPORTING THE DEPLOYMENT OF BIOENERGY CARBON CAPTURE AND 
STORAGE (BECCS) IN THE UK: BUSINESS MODEL OPTIONS 
1 INTRODUCTION 
Drax Power Station is a biomass- and coal-fired power plant. Four of its six 
generating units are biomass-fired, and the two remaining coal units are ceasing 
commercial operation in March 2021. Biomass combustion is a renewable form of 
generation, and the CO2 released when it is burned is equal to the amount of CO2 
that the biomass absorbs from the atmosphere as it grows. 
Drax is currently exploring the option of adding carbon capture and storage 
equipment to all the biomass units at the power station. In a first phase of 
development carbon capture technology would be applied to two biomass units, 
which together would produce at least eight million tonnes (Mt) each year of 
negative emissions as well as generating electricity.  
Drax is planning to make a final investment decision (FID) on its BECCS 
investment in 2024, with one BECCS unit to be operating by 2027. This would be 
the first carbon negative power station in the world. The timing of the investment 
decision is largely driven by the government’s progress towards a business model 
for BECCS and of the planned delivery of Transport and Storage (T&S) 
infrastructure.   
1.1 Why BECCS? 
Because of the very high costs of abatement in certain sectors such as agriculture, 
and the fact that total abatement in other sectors such as aviation is not currently 
feasible, negative emissions will need to play a key role in meeting the Net Zero 
target. 
While most low carbon technologies abate emissions associated with economic 
activity (for example by displacing traditional forms of electricity generation with 
lower or zero carbon generation such as wind or solar), greenhouse gas removal 
technologies (GGRs) produce negative emissions by capturing and storing 
greenhouse gases that are already in the atmosphere. They can therefore be used 
to offset emissions from hard-to-abate sectors, and by doing so lower net 
emissions. 
BECCS is likely to be one of the most important and earliest GGRs deployed to 
meet Net Zero targets.  It has a number of advantages.  
 BECCS delivers “permanent” greenhouse gas removals, which cannot be 
guaranteed for all GGR technologies. For example, soil carbon sequestration 
can store CO2 for long periods of time but requires continued careful land 
management to be effective. 
 BECCS can be a cost-effective technology to achieve Net Zero. The CCC 
estimates that the cost of BECCS in power in the 2030s could be between 
£70/tCO2e and £150/tCO2e9. This is likely to compare favourably to 
decarbonising hard to tackle sectors, including some parts of industry and 
aviation. 
 
 
 
 
frontier economics  
9 
 
 
SUPPORTING THE DEPLOYMENT OF BIOENERGY CARBON CAPTURE AND 
STORAGE (BECCS) IN THE UK: BUSINESS MODEL OPTIONS 
 BECCS is also likely to be available earlier than many other GGR technologies.  
Vivid Economics has evaluated the technological readiness levels of a range 
of GGR technologies. The highest readiness levels are found in the use of wood 
in construction, afforestation and soil carbon sequestration (all at either 8 or 9 
out of a maximum readiness level of 9). However, BECCS is given the next 
highest level of readiness, at 610 out of 9. This compares to some of the less 
ready technologies including habitat restoration (5), DACCS (4), and enhanced 
weathering (3).  
The potential of BECCS as part of the path to Net Zero has been recognised by 
Government and its advisors.  
 BECCS in power is an important part of all of the CCC’s Net Zero scenarios, 
contributing to negative emissions of between 16-39Mt CO2e per year by 
205011. Investment needs to occur early: by 2035, the CCC sees a role for 3-
4GW of BECCS, as part of a mix of dispatchable low carbon generation12.  
 The Government’s Energy White Paper commits, by 2022, to establishing the 
role which BECCS can play in reducing carbon emissions across the economy 
and setting out how the technology could be deployed. The Government has 
also committed to invest up to £1 billion to support the establishment of carbon, 
capture, usage and storage (CCUS) in four industrial clusters 13. 
 National Grid’s 2020 Future Energy Scenarios (FES) indicate that it is not 
possible to achieve Net Zero without BECCS14. 
1.2 Aims of this report  
While there is a consensus that BECCS could make an important contribution to 
delivering the UK’s carbon targets, policies to enable invest in BECCS are not yet 
in place. In particular, under current policy, investors would not be remunerated for 
negative emissions or for the positive learning externalities they provide. 
In this context, we have been asked by Drax to develop proposals for a business 
model15 to provide remuneration for negative emissions, power output and the 
learnings and positive spillovers delivered by first-of-a-kind BECCS power plants 
in the UK. 
We have undertaken the following work as part of this study: 
 
 
10  A technology readiness level of 6 means that it has been demonstrated in the relevant environment, but that 
it is not yet operational or proven in the relevant environment. (Based on EU Horizon 2020 definition: 
https://ec.europa.eu/research/participants/data/ref/h2020/wp/2014_2015/annexes/h2020-wp1415-annex-g-
trl_en.pdf)  
11  CCC (2020) , The Sixth Carbon Budget, Greenhouse Gas Removals, https://www.theccc.org.uk/wp-
content/uploads/2020/12/Sector-summary-GHG-removals.pdf  
12  CCC (2020), Policies for the Sixth Carbon Budget, https://www.theccc.org.uk/wp-
content/uploads/2020/12/Policies-for-the-Sixth-Carbon-Budget-and-Net-Zero.pdf 
13  BEIS (2020), Powering our Net Zero Future, 
https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/945899/2
01216_BEIS_EWP_Command_Paper_Accessible.pdf  
14  National Grid (2020), Future Energy Scenarios 2020, https://www.nationalgrideso.com/future-energy/future-
energy-scenarios/fes-2020-documents   
15  In this report, we use “business model” to describe Government market-based incentives for investment and 
operation. This is in line with the use of this term by BEIS, for example in BEIS (2019), Business Models For 
Carbon Capture, Usage And Storage 
 
frontier economics  
10 
 
 
SUPPORTING THE DEPLOYMENT OF BIOENERGY CARBON CAPTURE AND 
STORAGE (BECCS) IN THE UK: BUSINESS MODEL OPTIONS 
 based on the characteristics of BECCS power plants, we have reviewed the 
key market failures that may need to be addressed through a business model; 
and 
 we have developed and evaluated a set of business model options, as well as 
assessed considerations for funding. 
The remainder of this report sets out our findings. We cover the following. 
 Section 2 sets out key considerations and principles for business model design 
to enable investment in first-of-a-kind BECCS power plants. 
 Section 3 explains our approach to identifying business model options, and 
provides an overview of shortlisted options. 
 Section 4 assesses the shortlisted business model options. 
 Section 5 sets out our conclusions.  
 
 
 
frontier economics  
11 
 
 
SUPPORTING THE DEPLOYMENT OF BIOENERGY CARBON CAPTURE AND 
STORAGE (BECCS) IN THE UK: BUSINESS MODEL OPTIONS 
2 KEY CONSIDERATIONS FOR BUSINESS 
MODEL DESIGN 
Section 1 illustrated that BECCS in power could help the UK cost-effectively meet 
climate targets.  
In this section we set out key considerations for business model design to enable 
investment in BECCS. This covers:  
 principles that should guide business model design. We will later use these 
principles to assess each policy option against these aims to identify strengths 
and weaknesses; and  
 considerations around timing for a first-of-a-kind plant and its support regime, 
and how business model design may evolve over time.  
2.1.1 Market failures and other barriers to investment 
Investment in BECCS in power is constrained by the existence of market failures 
and characteristics of first of a kind BECCS power plants that increase the cost of 
capital and create barriers to investment. This means deployment is slower than 
would be ideal from a social perspective. Government intervention is therefore 
needed to address some of these market failures and other barriers. 
More specifically, those barriers include the following. 
 Absence of a market for negative emissions.  BECCS in power has a 
number of outputs that can be sold in specific markets and therefore 
remunerated: power, a reliable source of capacity, and system services. 
However, a key source of costs is the CCS technology and infrastructure, which 
delivers negative emissions - around 4Mt per unit at Drax. Because there is no 
market for negative emissions, there is currently no source of remuneration for 
the value delivered by these negative emissions, and therefore no return for 
the investment needed to achieve them. The existing carbon price only applies 
to positive emissions, so incentivises carbon abatement, but only to the point 
of zero emissions. This causes a distortion because negative emissions 
technologies such as BECCS are not placed on a level footing with abatement 
options, meaning that emissions reductions may not be achieved in the most 
cost effective manner. 
 Positive spillovers not remunerated. An investment in a first-of-a-kind 
BECCS power plant will lead to positive spillovers that include:  
□ providing an anchor load for carbon transport and storage infrastructure that 
can be used by subsequent CCS projects; 
□ innovation that will help to lower the costs of subsequent BECCS power 
plants; and 
□ learnings and shared skills that can be used across a range of CCS 
projects, including hydrogen production with CCS. 
 Reliance on CCS infrastructure being in place. BECCS relies on the 
presence of CO2 T&S infrastructure. Where this infrastructure doesn’t already 
 
frontier economics  
12 
 
 
SUPPORTING THE DEPLOYMENT OF BIOENERGY CARBON CAPTURE AND 
STORAGE (BECCS) IN THE UK: BUSINESS MODEL OPTIONS 
exist, or where its availability or costs are highly uncertain, this presents a 
significant risk to investors in BECCS. This risk is likely to raise the cost of 
capital and may even limit the ability for investors to raise finance, making the 
project unbankable. Given the complex and novel nature of T&S infrastructure, 
it is unlikely that investors will invest in BECCS technology until there is a high 
level of certainty that T&S will exist, and that they will have access to it on well-
understood terms and with an understood risk allocation. 
Policy can address these barriers, as we demonstrate in the remainder of this 
report. 
2.2 Principles for business model design  
In its consultation on business models and supportive policies for unlocking 
investment in carbon capture, usage and storage (CCUS), BEIS set out a number 
of principles to guide the design of these models. These principles are shown in 
Figure 2 below. 
Figure 2 
BEIS parameters to guide CCUS business model development 
 
Source: BEIS (2019) Business models for carbon capture, usage and storage, 
https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/819
648/ccus-business-models-consultation.pdf, p14 
We have adapted these principles from BEIS into a set of assessment criteria that 
can be used to both guide the design and to evaluate different support options. We 
have focused on the principles that are most relevant for BECCS in power, and 
added some further detail where relevant. The final set of criteria that we use is 
shown in Figure 3 below. 
 
frontier economics  
13 
 
 
SUPPORTING THE DEPLOYMENT OF BIOENERGY CARBON CAPTURE AND 
STORAGE (BECCS) IN THE UK: BUSINESS MODEL OPTIONS 
Figure 3 
Principles for design of business models 
 
Source: Frontier Economics 
These principles have guided our design of support options, as set out in the next 
section. We also come back to these principles in section 4, where we carry out a 
more detailed assessment of the potential business model options. 
2.3 Timing and business model evolution 
To enable FID on a first-of-a-kind investment in a BECCS power plant in Q1 2024, 
a business model needs to be developed and implemented in the very near term. 
Speed and ease of implementation are therefore key considerations.  
However, in the long-term, policymakers may wish for further BECCS in power 
investments to be part of a broader GGR business model (which might be more 
technology neutral across GGR technologies that have matured by that stage). 
While the design and implementation of such a business model is likely to take too 
long to make it relevant for an FID in Q1 2024, it is clearly important that any 
business model implemented in the short-term does not limit options for a future 
broader business model, and ideally helps move towards such a model.  This 
would ensure that the short-term business model was “low regret” on a route to a 
post-subsidy world in the long run. 
Fair cost sharing
▪ Allows fair and practical cost distribution
Ease of policy 
transition
▪ Ease of transition to subsidy free system
▪ Ease of transition to technology neutral solution 
Instil investor 
confidence
▪ Attract innovation 
▪ Attract new entrants
▪ Instil supply chain confidence
Cost efficient
▪ Drive efficient management of investment costs
▪ Drive efficient quantity of investment
▪ Drive efficient dispatch and operation
▪ Risks allocated in an efficient way, taking into 
account the impact on the cost of capital
Feasibility 
▪ Limit administrative burden  
▪ Practicality for investors
▪ Requirement for complementary policy
▪ Wider policy and state aid compatibility
▪ Timely implementation
 
frontier economics  
14 
 
 
SUPPORTING THE DEPLOYMENT OF BIOENERGY CARBON CAPTURE AND 
STORAGE (BECCS) IN THE UK: BUSINESS MODEL OPTIONS 
Figure 4 
Narrow and broad business models 
 
Source: Frontier Economics  
 
To help assess the impact of short-term options, we define three timescales for 
policy (illustrated in Figure 5 and described in more detail below), and use these 
to help ensure that all of the power-related BECCS support options which we define 
in the short-term are capable of transitioning to the credible broader GGR support 
options in the mid-term, and indeed to a post-subsidy world in the long-term. 
To do this, since the endpoint of a post subsidy world is clear, we work backwards 
from how the market would ideally work in that timescale, and use this to draw 
conclusions about ideal arrangements in the mid-term and then in the short-term. 
Figure 5 
Evolution of business models over time 
 
 
Source: Frontier Economics 
2.3.1 Long-term 
The long-term goal of low carbon policy is a well-functioning and comprehensive 
carbon market so that climate change goals such as Net Zero can be met without 
further government intervention. It is important to ensure that for any policies 
implemented now, there is a clear path to this post-subsidy world. 
At this point, it is highly likely that BECCS in power and other key GGR 
technologies will be at a well-established, nth-of-a-kind stage, given their 
importance in reaching Net Zero. Therefore, learnings and spillover benefits from 
first-of-a-kind plants will largely have been captured, and so support will not be 
▪ Focused on only BECCS
▪ Implemented using variations on 
existing policy instruments
Broad
Narrow
Technologies covered
▪ Encompasses a large range of 
GGR technologies
▪ Results in technology neutral 
incentives, so efficient outcomes
▪ Some broad options might need more fundamental policy reform so may not be possible in the 
timelines required
▪ However, if a narrow option is chosen it should be a “low regret” option that contributes to the 
pathway to broader, long-term solutions
Post-subsidy world
Short term
Mid term
Long term
Broad support, covering all 
GGR technologies
Narrow support, covering 
early projects, can be 
implemented quickly
 
frontier economics  
15 
 
 
SUPPORTING THE DEPLOYMENT OF BIOENERGY CARBON CAPTURE AND 
STORAGE (BECCS) IN THE UK: BUSINESS MODEL OPTIONS 
needed to remunerate these. There will still however be a need to remunerate 
negative emissions. 
The carbon market at this stage will therefore need to have the following features. 
 It must be mandatory and cover the relevant sectors, including the markets 
for complementary products such as electricity, hydrogen, building materials 
and fertiliser;  
 it must recognise negative emissions in the same way it does positive 
emissions,16 to deliver consistent incentives for carbon reductions, whether 
through abatement or through negative emissions. This will help deliver a cost-
efficient Net Zero outcome, as residual emissions in hard-to-abate sectors can 
purchase negative emissions from GGRs if this is more cost efficient than 
abatement; 
 it must involve a sufficiently high carbon price to incentivise abatement to 
meet Net Zero or other climate change goals (including the required level of 
negative emissions); and 
 it must deliver a sufficiently stable carbon price to provide confidence to 
investors. 
Such a carbon market will incentivise the optimal level of GGRs through two 
channels: 
 it will provide a price for the carbon that is captured; and 
 it will have an impact on the market for complementary outputs of GGRs, for 
example: 
□ electricity prices will reflect the carbon price (relevant to BECCS in power);17 
□ hydrogen prices will reflect the carbon price (relevant to BECCS for 
hydrogen); and18 
□ building materials or fertiliser prices will reflect the carbon price (relevant to 
afforestation and biochar)   
These characteristics are important to note, as they will help us identify the effects 
that the mid-term business model options should replicate. 
2.3.2 Mid-term 
We characterise the mid-term as a period during which the carbon market is not 
yet mature enough to incentivise all of the reductions that are needed to meet 
climate change goals. For all GGRs, therefore, some form of support is needed to 
incentivise required levels of negative emissions. 
However, by this point we would expect that GGR technologies are well enough 
established that learnings and spillover benefits from first-of-a-kind plants will be 
less significant.  As a result, the benefits of technology specific support may be 
 
 
16  This will require establishment of a regime for measuring, reporting and verifying negative emissions. The 
permanence of those negative emissions may also need to be considered as part of this. 
17  A high carbon price would increasing the cost of unabated thermal plant. This would set a limit on the price 
that the next most expensive lower carbon options such as demand side response (DSR) and storage can 
charge. 
18  Note that DACCS does not have an accompanying output that would be affected. 
 
frontier economics  
16 
 
 
SUPPORTING THE DEPLOYMENT OF BIOENERGY CARBON CAPTURE AND 
STORAGE (BECCS) IN THE UK: BUSINESS MODEL OPTIONS 
outweighed by the costs, and it should be possible to implement a business model 
that is broad across GGR technologies. This is desirable as it means that different 
GGRs compete for support on the same basis, and investment is in the most cost-
effective. 
To replicate the impact of an efficient carbon price as described above, a business 
model should provide remuneration for negative emissions (where these are not 
remunerated under existing carbon markets), and it may also make sense to have 
a mechanism to support the price of complementary outputs such as power or 
hydrogen that would have a higher price under an efficient carbon market.  
It may be desirable to keep this complementary output price support mechanism 
separate from that which remunerates negative emissions, because the latter can 
be technology neutral, while the former will differ by technology. If a single 
mechanism is used to cover both the value of negative emissions and any 
complementary output (such as electricity or hydrogen), there is potential for 
overcompensating the amount of support required for the complementary outputs. 
2.3.3 Short-term 
The short-term is defined by the timescale over which BECCS in power and other 
nascent GGRs are at first-of-a-kind stage. At this stage, investors will bear 
additional risks and costs associated with deploying the technologies at scale, but 
will also deliver positive learnings and spillovers.  For BECCS in power, this period 
may be over the next five to fifteen years, and final investment decisions will need 
to be taken well before that.  As we note above, Drax is planning to be in a position 
to take FID in Q1 2024. 
At this point the key focus is to enable first-of-a-kind plants. Fully technology neutral 
business models across GGRs are: 
 not desirable at this stage, because different technologies have different 
spillovers and benefits, and levels of support will need to differ to reflect this (or 
risk that only the most mature technologies will be adopted, limiting future 
options for greenhouse gas reduction); and 
 not necessarily achievable at this stage, because of the likely time it would 
take to design and implement the business models relative to the FID dates of 
infrastructure to come online in the late 2020s / early 2030s. 
Therefore in the short-term, it is likely that a “narrow” business model is needed. 
However, to transition effectively to the mid-term, a narrow model should: 
 provide remuneration for negative emissions (including a mechanism that 
allows any revenue achieved from existing carbon markets to be taken into 
account);  
 support the complementary output price (electricity in the case of BECCS in 
power); and  
 in the short-term provide a further uplift to deliver learnings and spillovers.  
Because technology neutrality is not desirable at this stage, there is no need to 
separate these elements, so all of the support could be provided through one 
 
frontier economics  
17 
 
 
SUPPORTING THE DEPLOYMENT OF BIOENERGY CARBON CAPTURE AND 
STORAGE (BECCS) IN THE UK: BUSINESS MODEL OPTIONS 
mechanism. However, having multiple mechanisms may mean that transition to a 
mid-term solution is easier. 
Figure 6 summarises our views, as set out above, on the evolution of policies over 
time. 
Figure 6 
Summary of business model features over different time 
period 
 
Short-term 
Mid term 
Long-term 
Key 
features  
 Provide remuneration 
for negative 
emissions (taking into 
account any revenue 
from existing carbon 
markets)  
 Support the 
complementary 
output price (power in 
this case) 
 Provide support to 
deliver learnings and 
spillovers 
 
Provide remuneration 
for negative 
emissions(taking into 
account any revenue 
from existing carbon 
markets) 
 Support 
complementary GGR 
output prices 
 
Efficient CO2 market that: 
 recognises negative 
emissions; 
 has a sufficiently high 
carbon price; and 
 has a sufficiently 
stable carbon price. 
 
Narrow or 
broad  
Narrow. Full technology 
neutrality across GGRs is 
not desirable at this 
stage, because different 
technologies have 
different spillovers and 
benefits. 
Broad. The mechanism 
to remunerate negative 
emissions can be 
technology neutral across 
GGRs.  
Ideally, support for the 
complementary output 
price would be delivered 
through a separate, 
technology-specific 
mechanism to avoid the 
risk of high inframarginal 
rents for technologies 
requiring less uplift. 
Broad. This market will 
be fully technology neutral 
across carbon abatement 
and GGR technologies.  
Source:  Frontier Economics 
 
 
frontier economics  
18 
 
 
SUPPORTING THE DEPLOYMENT OF BIOENERGY CARBON CAPTURE AND 
STORAGE (BECCS) IN THE UK: BUSINESS MODEL OPTIONS 
3 BUSINESS MODEL OPTIONS 
In this section we use the approach set out in the previous section to identify and 
shortlist business model options. We then explain how any of the short-term 
options identified could be transitioned to a technology neutral mid-term option, 
and to a subsidy-free world. Finally, we consider whether the policies differ in terms 
of the funding options which they allow. 
3.1 Identifying business model options 
In this section we consider potential business model options in the mid-term and 
the short-term. Again, we work backwards considering mid-term options and then 
setting out short-term options which could feasibly transition to the mid-term 
approaches considered. 
3.1.1 Mid-term business model options 
The purpose of identifying mid-term options is to ensure that the short-term options 
we identify for first-of-a-kind BECCS power plants can be transitioned to mid-term 
options and ultimately to a subsidy-free system. It is important that none of the 
short-term options close doors to implementing any of these options in future. We 
identify mid-term options at a high level, and we do not give a view as to which of 
these options for future support is more preferable or likely.  
We noted in the previous section that a mid-term business model should: 
 provide remuneration for negative emissions (taking into account any revenue 
from existing carbon markets); and 
 support the price of any complementary GGR outputs such as power or 
hydrogen that have associated carbon emissions. 
Negative emissions can be remunerated either through a direct carbon payment 
for negative emissions, or a negative CO2 obligation. Either of these models could 
be applied in a technology neutral way across all GGR technologies. 
 Direct carbon payment. A carbon payment would provide a fixed payment per 
tonne of negative emissions, and would be a contractual mechanism between 
the producer and a counterparty such as the LCCC (we note that if the carbon 
pricing regime includes provision for negative emissions by the mid-term, this 
contract could be structured as a CfD19). Because the market price for carbon 
will not at this stage be high and/or stable enough to incentivise the required 
amount of negative emissions to meet Net Zero, the contracted carbon price 
will need to be set such that enough investors in GGRs can break even given 
their cost of capital, to deliver the required quantity of negative emissions. More 
 
 
19  The Government recently published its response on its consultation on the future of carbon pricing in the 
UK. Based on this, we do not expect that negative emissions will be included in the scheme in the near 
term, however this could be considered when the Government first reviews the policy in 2023.  
 
See: HM Government (2020) The future of UK carbon pricing. UK Government and Devolved 
Administrations’ response, 
https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/889037/
Government_Response_to_Consultation_on_Future_of_UK_Carbon_Pricing.pdf 
 
frontier economics  
19 
 
 
SUPPORTING THE DEPLOYMENT OF BIOENERGY CARBON CAPTURE AND 
STORAGE (BECCS) IN THE UK: BUSINESS MODEL OPTIONS 
detail on how a carbon agreement could be structured is provided in the box 
below. 
 Negative CO2 obligation. A negative CO2 obligation would require 
greenhouse gas emitters covered by the obligation to secure negative CO2 
certificates to cover a given proportion of their emissions. Companies 
producing negative emissions would “produce” negative emissions certificates, 
which would then be traded and provide a source of revenue (we note that if 
the carbon pricing regime includes provision for negative emissions by the mid-
term, these payments would be on top of any carbon market revenue). 
 
WHAT WOULD A NEGATIVE CARBON PAYMENT LOOK LIKE? 
An agreement providing payments for negative emissions would be a new 
mechanism, so we provide some suggestions below on how this could be 
structured. 
Feature 
Details 
Type of agreement 
Private law contract with LCCC or similar counterparty. 
Provisions for 
transition 
Provisions included in the contract to allow any revenue 
from an emissions trading scheme or the voluntary carbon 
market to offset some or all of the carbon payment if and 
when negative emissions are included in a UK emissions 
trading scheme and as the voluntary market develops. 
Scope 
Contract to be structured such that it can be used by any 
negative emissions technology, but payment may initially 
need to be technology specific until technologies are 
sufficiently mature. 
Payment 
Fixed payment per tonne of CO2 captured. In the near term, 
allocation and payment level would be agreed by bilateral 
negotiation between the investor and counterparty. Payment 
level set such that the investor can recoup their investment 
plus a reasonable rate of return, and taking into account 
other potential sources of revenue (e.g. from power CfDs). 
In the mid-term, allocation and payment level would be 
determined by competitive auction. 
T&S costs 
Pass-through of regulated T&S costs. 
Complementary 
policies required 
A system needs to be in place for monitoring, reporting and 
verifying negative emissions. 
Duration 
To be considered. This would likely depend on asset lives, 
and setting a duration that minimises the cost of capital. 
Other features to 
be considered 
 
Liability for the cost of any emissions released from 
storage. 
 
Frequency of payments. 
 
Point of payment (e.g. for BECCS in power it might be at 
the point the carbon enters the CCS pipeline). 
 
 
 
frontier economics  
20 
 
 
SUPPORTING THE DEPLOYMENT OF BIOENERGY CARBON CAPTURE AND 
STORAGE (BECCS) IN THE UK: BUSINESS MODEL OPTIONS 
We note that it is preferable that support for complementary output prices be  
delivered through a separate mechanism. CfDs are a well-established support 
regime in the power sector, and are also being considered for hydrogen production.  
This mechanism could therefore be a power CfD for BECCS in power, and a 
hydrogen CfD for BECCS for hydrogen.  
Therefore a full mid-term business model could be structured as: 
 a carbon payment and a (power or hydrogen) CfD20; or 
 a negative CO2 obligation and a (power or hydrogen) CfD. 
3.1.2 Short-term business model options 
In the short-term, we suggested that a narrow business model should: 
 provide remuneration for negative emissions;  
 support the complementary output price (power in this case); and 
 provide support to deliver learnings and spillovers. 
There is a wider set of potential types of support that could be implemented in the 
short-term. Some of these were set out as business model options in the BEIS 
CCUS business models consultation.21 The broad categories of potential support 
are listed and briefly described below. 
 Regulated asset base approach. This would involve a regulatory valuation of 
the electricity generation assets and setting tariffs to pass costs on to 
consumers. 
 Cap and floor. This would set a minimum and maximum level of revenue, 
whereby investors would be topped up if earnings fall below the minimum, and 
would need to return earnings to consumers if they rise above the maximum. 
 Cost-plus open book. This would involve direct payments to cover costs that 
are deemed to have been reasonably incurred, plus an agreed margin. 
 Power CfDs. Power CfDs are a well-established mechanism for providing low-
carbon generators with stable power market revenues, along with support 
required to deliver required amounts of low-carbon generation. 
 Hybrid CfDs. This type of CfD provides lower £/MWh payments as output 
moves up pre-determined “bands”. The aim is to incentivise generators to 
reduce output when prices are low. 
 Dispatchable Power Agreement (DPA). BEIS is considering the introduction 
of a DPA for gas-fired CCS. This consists of an availability payment and a 
variable payment, where the variable payment calculated by considering the 
difference in short run marginal cost between the gas-fired CCUS plant and a 
theoretical reference unabated plant22. 
 
 
20  Other business models for complementary products could also be envisaged. 
21  BEIS (2019) Business models for carbon capture, usage and storage, 
https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/819648/c
cus-business-models-consultation.pdf  
22  BEIS (2020), CCUS: An update on business models for Carbon Capture, Usage and Storage 
https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/946561/c
cus-business-models-commercial-update.pdf  
 
frontier economics  
21 
 
 
SUPPORTING THE DEPLOYMENT OF BIOENERGY CARBON CAPTURE AND 
STORAGE (BECCS) IN THE UK: BUSINESS MODEL OPTIONS 
 Carbon payment. As described above, a carbon payment would provide a 
fixed payment per tonne of negative emissions, and would be a contractual 
mechanism between the producer and a counterparty such as the LCCC 
(similar to a CfD). 
 Negative CO2 obligation scheme. As described above, this would require 
greenhouse gas emitters covered by the scheme to secure negative CO2 
certificates to cover a given proportion of their emissions. Companies 
producing negative emissions would earn negative emissions certificates, 
which would then be traded and provide a source of revenue. 
Given the BEIS criteria set out in the previous section, the need for a transition 
path to one of the mid-term options, and the specific characteristics of BECCS in 
power, a number of these options can be eliminated. The table below sets out 
which options we have eliminated, and the reasoning. 
Figure 7 
Initial assessment of support options  
Support 
option 
Rationale 
Performance against criteria 
Regulated 
asset base 
(RAB)23 
Can deliver cashflow 
before production starts, 
and helps ensure that 
infrastructure will be 
funded regardless of 
subsequent levels of 
demand 
 
Investor confidence: regulatory regimes (unlike contractual 
mechanisms such as CfDs) may provide less certainty over 
revenues as they need to establish a track record and even then, 
can be adjusted over time 
 
Ease of transition: early cashflow not needed because a significant 
proportion of costs are operating costs and there is limited demand 
risk. Therefore a regulated approach is less beneficial, particularly 
given it may be difficult to transition away from. 
□ No clear transition path to mid-term options. 
Cap and 
floor 
Straightforward 
approach to removing 
risk of excessively high 
or low returns 
 
Investor confidence: in addition to points on RAB, if cap and floor 
set wide apart, then the approach will not be effective at addressing 
risks. 
 
Ease of transition: if cap and floor set narrow, similar issues to RAB 
approach. 
□ No clear transition path to mid-term options. 
Cost-plus 
open book 
Straightforward and the 
investor is guaranteed 
the agreed rate of return 
 This option does not meet a number of the BEIS criteria, including 
efficiency, allocation of risk and ease of transition (no clear transition 
path to mid-term options). 
Power 
CfDs 
Provides investors with 
a guarantee over power 
market revenues, while 
taking into account 
actual revenues 
To be assessed further  
Hybrid 
CfDs 
Creates efficient 
dispatch incentives for 
intermittent generators 
 Feasibility: this variant of a power CfD is unlikely to be necessary 
or proportionate as a BECCS power plant is expected to run 
baseload given the value of negative emissions produced. 
 
 
 
23  The reasoning set out here also applies to a split CfD, which would provide an upfront payment to cover 
fixed capital costs (similar to the RAB approach being considered for nuclear generation), but would also 
provide a subsequent output-linked payment to cover variable costs (similar to a standard CfD).  
 
frontier economics  
22 
 
 
SUPPORTING THE DEPLOYMENT OF BIOENERGY CARBON CAPTURE AND 
STORAGE (BECCS) IN THE UK: BUSINESS MODEL OPTIONS 
Support 
option 
Rationale 
Performance against criteria 
DPA  
Creates efficient 
dispatch incentives for 
intermittent generators 
 Feasibility: this variant of a power CfD is unlikely to be necessary 
or proportionate as a BECCS power plant is expected to run 
baseload given the value of negative emissions produced. 
Carbon 
payment 
Straightforward 
approach to remunerate 
negative emissions 
To be assessed further 
Negative 
CO2 
obligation 
scheme24 
Market-based approach 
that, if the scheme 
functions well, should 
deliver an efficient price 
for negative CO2 
obligation certificates, 
and encourage cost 
efficient development of 
negative emissions 
technologies 
 
Investor confidence: obligations (unlike contractual mechanisms 
such as CfDs) provide less certainty over revenues as they can be 
adjusted by policy-makers over time. An obligation scheme would 
be particularly unsuitable at this early stage when few GGRs exist, 
and technology neutrality across these technologies is not possible. 
Having a small number of sellers at this stage could result in large 
fluctuations in obligation prices (e.g. due to entry and exit of sellers). 
 
Feasibility: designing and introducing an obligation, particularly one 
for negative emissions for which there is no precedent, is unlikely to 
be feasible in the timelines required. This is due to the need to create 
legal obligations around producing certificates, the challenges 
around monitoring and enabling trading, and difficulties around 
designing the scheme to tune desired outcomes.  
Obligations are also complex to administer (as RO experience has 
indicated, with parameterisation including “headroom” calculations 
and banding). And they are difficult to budget, unlike CfDs where a 
defined envelope of budget can be set. 
Source:  Frontier 
This process of elimination leaves power CfDs and carbon payments as 
candidates for the short-term. These forms of support could be used individually or 
in combination, giving three distinct options for support. We explain below how 
these options would deliver the needed support to enable investment in BECCS in 
power. 
 Power CfD: the strike price of the CfD would be set to include remuneration for 
negative emissions, low carbon power and for learnings and spillover benefits. 
This would therefore be a bespoke CfD for BECCS in power. 
 Carbon payment: a carbon payment would provide a fixed payment per tonne 
of negative emissions, on a contractual basis. The payment level would be set 
to include remuneration for negative emissions, low carbon power and for 
learnings and spillovers. A similar business model could apply to other GGRs, 
noting that the level of payment would differ by technology. 
 Carbon payment + power CfD25: this option is a two-part business model, 
combining the two options above. The carbon payment would provide 
 
 
24  We note that a number of the drawbacks set out here also apply to obligations as a mid-term option. 
However our focus is on evaluating short-term options, so we have not commented on the suitableness of 
an obligation scheme in the mid-term. 
25  There is a variant of this option where the power CfD would be replaced with a “carbon CfD” that would only 
stabilise the portion of power market revenues related to the carbon price.  The effect of this is that investors 
are shielded from the variation in wholesale prices that is driven by the carbon price, but exposed to 
variation that is driven by fuel costs and other factors.  We do not consider this variant in detail in the 
following sections as its effect is somewhat like a hybrid of the power CfD and the carbon payment. There is 
also other work ongoing exploring this option, for example by the LCCC. 
 
frontier economics  
23 
 
 
SUPPORTING THE DEPLOYMENT OF BIOENERGY CARBON CAPTURE AND 
STORAGE (BECCS) IN THE UK: BUSINESS MODEL OPTIONS 
remuneration for negative emissions and learnings and spillovers while the 
power CfD would support power market revenues.  
For any of these business models, there are a number of features that are 
important to consider, including the duration of support and protections against 
specific risks. We set out in the box below some of these key features and some 
considerations that should be taken into account when considering the specific 
design of a chosen business model. 
 
frontier economics  
24 
 
 
SUPPORTING THE DEPLOYMENT OF BIOENERGY CARBON CAPTURE AND 
STORAGE (BECCS) IN THE UK: BUSINESS MODEL OPTIONS 
KEY BUSINESS MODEL FEATURES 
Duration of support 
The standard duration for CfD contracts in GB is 15 years.  There is not an obvious 
justification for a different duration in the case of BECCS in power, given the cost 
characteristics of the plant. Contract length would ideally be optimised to provide 
the best value for money for the group(s) funding the business model;  
Reference power price used (for CfDs only) 
BECCS generation is non-intermittent and is likely to run at high load factors  as a 
result of the value of negative emissions. Like nuclear, it would appear reasonable 
to base its payments on the baseload (season ahead) reference price. Baseload 
prices are calculated using a traded volume weighted average on a seasonal basis. 
They provide an incentive for baseload generators to avoid outages at a time when 
hourly prices are highest. This is because CfD payments relate to the difference 
between the average season-ahead price and the strike price. If generators sell 
forward at the season-ahead price, they ensure they receive their expected 
revenue.  But if they then have to buy energy in the market to cover an outage, 
they are exposed to the difference between the hourly prices at which they buy and 
the season-ahead price.  
Limits on T&S availability risk 
As we described in section 2, because first-of-a-kind BECCS power plants would 
be some of the first users of T&S infrastructure, they would help deliver positive 
spillovers by contributing to the costs of this infrastructure and helping to 
demonstrate its reliability.  
In doing so, however, first-of-a-kind BECCS power plants could potentially be 
exposed to significant risk because lack of access to T&S infrastructure would 
mean that a plant cannot produce negative emissions. This risk comes both in the 
form of possible delays to the deployment of the infrastructure, and also the 
possibility of technical issues in the early years that limits its availability. 
Furthermore, T&S availability is entirely exogenous, and because there has been 
limited demonstration of this infrastructure it is difficult for investors to estimate the 
scale of this risk. 
It is therefore important that any element of a business model that is providing 
remuneration for negative emissions (the power CfD in the first option above, and 
the carbon payment in the other options) mitigates the exposure of investors to the 
risk of T&S outages. This may include contractual payments from the T&S 
operator, who may in turn draw on government support to meet these payments.  
The compensation might also need to cover any losses that a generator makes if 
it has already sold power (and possibly negative emissions) that it is not able to 
deliver due to a T&S outage, and needs to buy back power/negative emissions to 
cover its position in the market. The mechanism for this would need to be 
considered further. 
 
frontier economics  
25 
 
 
SUPPORTING THE DEPLOYMENT OF BIOENERGY CARBON CAPTURE AND 
STORAGE (BECCS) IN THE UK: BUSINESS MODEL OPTIONS 
Limits on opex risk 
The most significant operating costs for a BECCS power plant are likely to be the 
cost of fuel (biomass) and the cost of using T&S infrastructure. There is an option 
to index strike prices/payment levels to changes in biomass prices, changes in T&S 
costs, or both. There is also the option for indexation to apply to only a portion of 
the contract, e.g. under the current nuclear CfD, investors bear the risk of changes 
in opex during the initial 15 years but are protected from changes after this period. 
Whether indexation is used should depend on how well-placed investors are to 
manage these risks, and how feasible it is to find a suitable index. For example, 
we note that there is not currently a liquid biomass market on which to base a fuel 
cost index. 
Furthermore, T&S costs are likely to be regulated to some extent, in which case 
there would be some form of protection for investors against instability, and T&S 
costs could be passed-through.  
3.2 Transition paths from short-term business models 
It is possible to transition from any of the short-term options described above to a 
subsidy-free world with an efficient CO2 market, via either of the two mid-term 
options discussed above (carbon payment or negative CO2 obligation). Some 
options are more straightforward than others, but all are possible, meaning that 
none of the shortlisted short-term options close any doors in future. Below we 
briefly explain how the relevant transitions would be possible. 
Figure 8 
Possible transitions to a subsidy free world 
 
Source: Frontier 
3.2.1 Short-term to mid-term 
We first consider the transition routes from the short-term to mid-term options.  
First, we consider the transitions to a carbon payment regime in the mid-term: 
 transition from power CfD: provided it is relatively simple to establish a ratio 
between the MWh of power produced and the tCO2 captured and stored, it 
Broad support, covering all GGR
technologies
Post-subsidy world
Carbon Payment
[+ Power CfD or mechanism to 
support output price for other 
GGRs]
Negative CO2 obligation 
[+ Power CfD or mechanism to 
support output price for other 
GGRs]
Efficient CO2 market 
Short term
Mid term
End point
Narrow, covering early projects, 
can be implemented quickly
Power CfD
Carbon Payment
Carbon Payment + Power CfD
 
frontier economics  
26 
 
 
SUPPORTING THE DEPLOYMENT OF BIOENERGY CARBON CAPTURE AND 
STORAGE (BECCS) IN THE UK: BUSINESS MODEL OPTIONS 
should be relatively simple to convert a power CfD with a price defined in 
£/MWh to a carbon payment with a price defined in £/tCO2, without impacting 
on the financial return originally agreed under the CfD contract.  If the mid-term 
carbon payment is accompanied by a power CfD instrument, payments under 
a unified short-term power CfD could be split into both £/MWh and £/tCO2 
components; 
 transition from carbon payment (with or without power CfD): this is likely 
to be the most straightforward short-term to mid-term transition option. The 
carbon payment for negative emissions is retained in the mid-term.  If a two-
part business model is desirable in the mid-term, it would be preferable to apply 
a two-part model in the short-term. 
Second, we consider the transition to a negative CO2 obligation.  In all of the short-
term support options outlined above in Figure 8, there will need to be a contractual 
counterparty (such as the LCCC) that provides support payments.  If a negative 
obligation was introduced, while the CfDs contracts signed in earlier periods were 
still ongoing , this counterparty could sell negative emission certificates (based on 
its support contracts) to parties obligated under the negative CO2 obligation.  This 
would ensure that GGR technologies signed up to CfDs could also still effectively 
participate as part of the supply curve of GGRs under an obligation scheme, 
without affecting the revenue that investors receive.  In doing so, the contractual 
counterparty would raise some of the funds required to remunerate support 
contracts. That said, some form of (reduced) levy might still be needed as a 
backstop source of funds for the counterparty, in case the obligation scheme does 
not raise sufficient funds. More detail on how prices are determined in an obligation 
scheme is provided in the box below. 
 
frontier economics  
27 
 
 
SUPPORTING THE DEPLOYMENT OF BIOENERGY CARBON CAPTURE AND 
STORAGE (BECCS) IN THE UK: BUSINESS MODEL OPTIONS 
MECHANISMS TO LIMIT PRICE RISK IN AN OBLIGATION SCHEME 
The Renewables Obligation (RO) was one of the main support mechanisms for 
large-scale renewable electricity projects in the UK. It came into effect in 2002 and 
closed for new generating capacity in  2017. 
Under the RO, electricity suppliers are required to present to Ofgem a specified 
number of Renewables Obligation Certificates (ROCs) per unit of electricity 
supplied to their customers. ROCs are tradeable certificates issued to operators of 
accredited renewable generating stations for the renewable electricity they 
generate. The price of ROCs can fluctuate, depending on the relationship between 
the production of renewable electricity and energy supplied to consumers.  
The RO includes two features for limiting risks around the ROC price.  
 ‘Headroom’ is included, to ensure that the price of obligation certificates 
does not collapse.  The Government sets the headroom each year, generally 
by forecasting renewable generation for that year and adding 10%. Electricity 
suppliers in the UK are then obligated to purchase ROCs amounting to this 
‘headroom’ figure.  This feature aims to reduce the risk of oversupply of 
obligation certificates.  However, given the difficulties of accurately forecasting 
supply, some risk remains.  
 A buyout price, set by Ofgem, is included to cap the cost of meeting the 
obligation. Suppliers can pay a buyout price instead of purchasing ROC 
certificates. This effectively caps the market price for ROCs and reduces the 
risk of price spikes. 
3.2.2 Mid-term to end point 
While it is less relevant to the choice of a short-term approach, we also consider 
briefly the transition routes from the mid-term to the long-term from: 
 a carbon payment: at some point during the transition to an efficient CO2 
market, negative emissions will need to be recognised and brought into the CO2 
markets. However, at this point, the carbon price may not yet be high enough 
and/or stable enough to incentivise the level of negative emissions needed to 
meet Net Zero or other climate change goals. At this point, fixed carbon 
payments could be replaced with a carbon CfD defined such that GGR 
investors receive a consistent level of remuneration for their negative 
emissions.  Then, over time, as the carbon price rises, CfD payments will fall 
(and the issue of new carbon CfDs could gradually be phased out); and  
 a negative CO2 obligation: in contrast to a carbon payment regime, 
transitioning  away from a negative CO2 obligation may be more complex 
(particularly if policymakers wish to avoid investors under the obligation 
benefitting from rising CO2 prices). Once GGRs are included in a carbon pricing 
scheme, investors in GGRs would receive revenue for their obligation 
certificates on top of carbon revenue, and “steering” the obligation price to 
respond to an evolving carbon price would be difficult.26  Similarly, gradually 
 
 
26  Reducing the target volume of the scheme creates risk around a price “cliff edge” – in a simple obligation 
scheme design, once the target level of obligation is met, there is no longer a scarcity of certificates and the 
price will crash.  In theory the penalty price (applied to those who have not met their obligation) could be 
 
 
frontier economics  
28 
 
 
SUPPORTING THE DEPLOYMENT OF BIOENERGY CARBON CAPTURE AND 
STORAGE (BECCS) IN THE UK: BUSINESS MODEL OPTIONS 
reducing take-up under an obligation scheme is more difficult, again because 
of the complexity of “steering” the obligation price.27  Nevertheless, routes (such 
as those established for the closing and eventual termination of the 
Renewables Obligation) exist to phase out an obligation scheme, even if these 
include more direct regulation of the price of certificates or the definition of a 
final closing date for the scheme.  
3.2.3 Conclusion on transition paths 
Our analysis suggests that it is possible to transition from any of the proposed 
“narrow” short-term options though to a “broad” business model in the mid-term, 
whether that is based on a carbon payment or a negative CO2 obligation.  
Implementing one of the short-term options would therefore be low regret in that, 
without significantly limiting the choice of mid-term options, it would enable early 
BECCS in power investments, and their associated benefits of: 
 helping the UK meet its upcoming carbon budgets and stay on track to meet 
Net Zero; 
 supporting the development of CCS infrastructure, by acting as an anchor load 
and reducing costs for other users; 
 developing technical learnings that can be applied to subsequent BECCS 
power plants and other CCS applications; and 
 assuming a business model is used for first-of-a-kind BECCS power plants, 
delivering policy learnings that can be applied to other GGRs. 
3.3 Funding of short-term options 
It is clearly important to identify the way in which support under any of the short-
term business model options can be funded. A credible funding route will be of 
critical interest to investors, and the incidence of costs of the business model will 
be important from a policy perspective. 
It may seem that the form of a business model and the way it is funded are strongly 
interlinked. For example, power CfDs are currently funded by a levy paid by 
electricity suppliers to the LCCC. However, business models do not need to be 
attached to specific funding sources; most options can be designed to fit with 
numerous different funding options, so the two decisions can be made 
independently.  
In Annex B we identify some candidate groups to fund any chosen business model 
and set out some potential principles for deciding on funding. However, at this 
stage we do not form any recommendations as to a funding source. This is 
because once a business model has been chosen, arrangements can be put in 
place to raise the required funding from any chosen group. This is demonstrated 
in the figure below, which describes how a power CfD or a carbon payment could 
 
 
used to steer the market price of certificates, but even then, there is not a straightforward link between this 
penalty price and the price achieved by any given plant.  
27  The government committed to “headroom” in the Renewables Obligation scheme in order to provide 
investors with confidence that the price would not crash in the case of an over-supply of low carbon 
electricity.  Having done so, the scheme was then simply closed to new investors on a given date rather 
than seeing any gradual phasing down.  
 
frontier economics  
29 
 
 
SUPPORTING THE DEPLOYMENT OF BIOENERGY CARBON CAPTURE AND 
STORAGE (BECCS) IN THE UK: BUSINESS MODEL OPTIONS 
be funded by any of five candidate groups (while we apply this to the groups we 
have selected, this reasoning could be applied to any target group).  A two-part 
power CfD and carbon payment would involve a combination of the two 
approaches (and indeed, would allow an option where the power CfD continues to 
be funded by electricity suppliers while the carbon payment is funded by a different 
group). 
Figure 9 
Funding a business model by different groups 
 
Source: Frontier 
Investors in early BECCS power plants will need assurance over the plan for 
funding as well as business model design in the next few years to enable 
investment decisions to be made. However, these decisions should be made 
independently, without tying business model options to funding sources, to secure 
the preferred outcome on each. Further work on designing a business model can 
progress in parallel with thinking about funding sources, to ensure that investors 
are sufficiently confident both about the nature and source of funding in time to 
enable early investment in BECCS in power . 
Undertaxed emitters
Undertaxed emitters not 
exposed to intl. competition
Power CfD
Carbon payment
Taxpayers
Funding from government 
(general taxation revenues)
Funding from government 
(general taxation revenues)
Upstream fossil fuel suppliers
Levy on fossil fuel suppliers, 
payable to CfD counterparty
Levy on fossil fuel suppliers, 
payable to administering entity
Electricity suppliers/users
Levy on electricity suppliers (as 
currently) or users, payable to 
CfD counterparty
Levy on electricity 
suppliers/consumers, payable to 
administering entity
Levy on customers in chosen 
sectors, payable to CfD
counterparty
Levy on customers in chosen 
sectors, payable to 
administering entity
Candidate groups
 
frontier economics  
30 
 
 
SUPPORTING THE DEPLOYMENT OF BIOENERGY CARBON CAPTURE AND 
STORAGE (BECCS) IN THE UK: BUSINESS MODEL OPTIONS 
4 ASSESSMENT OF BUSINESS MODEL 
OPTIONS 
In this section, for each of the short-term business model options identified, we first 
look at the impact on the costs and revenues that investors can expect to face in 
order to help understand the investor confidence and cost efficiency characteristics 
of each option. We then evaluate each of the options against the principles set out 
in Section 2, highlighting the key strengths and weaknesses of each option as a 
business model for BECCS in power. Finally we set out conclusions on the most 
preferable options and key trade-offs between them. 
4.1 Business model impact on costs and revenues 
Figure 10 illustrates the cost and revenue profiles that investors would face under 
each of the three proposed short-term business model options (although these are 
shown side-by-side they represent alternative worlds, not a sequence of support 
over time.)  
Figure 10 
Cost and revenue profiles of alternative support options 
 
Source: Frontier 
Note: 
Illustrations are based on assuming a constant level of output over time. 
 
Under all options, investors would face the initial pre-construction and construction 
costs, and would bear operating costs such as biomass costs throughout the 
lifetime of the investment.  
However, revenue streams would differ by business model. 
 power CfD: under the power CfD (which in this case would provide 
remuneration for both power and for negative emissions), investors earn a fixed 
level of revenue per MWh of power generated, equal to the strike price of the 
CfD contract. This strike price shields investors from fluctuations in power 
 
frontier economics  
31 
 
 
SUPPORTING THE DEPLOYMENT OF BIOENERGY CARBON CAPTURE AND 
STORAGE (BECCS) IN THE UK: BUSINESS MODEL OPTIONS 
prices, as well as including an uplift to provide revenue for negative emissions, 
learnings and spillovers. Investors do not face any power wholesale market 
risk; 
 carbon payment: under a carbon payment, investors receive a fixed payment 
per tonne of CO2 captured and stored. This payment includes an uplift for 
learnings and spillovers. On top of this, investors earn power market revenues 
for each MWh of electricity generated, meaning that they face full exposure to 
power wholesale market risk; and  
 two-part carbon payment + power CfD: this option combines the two above, 
so there is a fixed payment per tonne of negative CO2 stored, plus a CfD that 
provides a strike price that shields investors from power price fluctuations. The 
uplift for learnings and spillovers could be included within either of these 
mechanisms. Investors do not face any power wholesale market risk. 
4.2 Business model assessment 
Having set out the implications of each regime for cost and revenue risk, we turn 
to an assessment of the different business model options.  As a reminder, Figure 
11 below sets out our evaluation criteria.  
Figure 11 
Criteria for assessing business model options 
 
Source: Frontier 
Figure 12 provides a summary of our assessment of each of the business model 
options against the main criteria categories, using traffic light colour coding to 
indicate how well the criteria are likely to be met.  
Fair cost sharing
▪ Allows fair and practical cost distribution
Ease of policy 
transition
▪ Ease of transition to subsidy free system
▪ Ease of transition to technology neutral solution 
Instil investor 
confidence
▪ Attract innovation 
▪ Attract new entrants
▪ Instil supply chain confidence
Cost efficient
▪ Drive efficient management of investment costs
▪ Drive efficient quantity of investment
▪ Drive efficient dispatch and operation
▪ Risks allocated in an efficient way, taking into 
account the impact on the cost of capital
Feasibility 
▪ Limit administrative burden  
▪ Practicality for investors
▪ Requirement for complementary policy
▪ Wider policy and state aid compatibility
▪ Timely implementation
 
frontier economics  
32 
 
 
SUPPORTING THE DEPLOYMENT OF BIOENERGY CARBON CAPTURE AND 
STORAGE (BECCS) IN THE UK: BUSINESS MODEL OPTIONS 
Figure 12 
Assessment of business model options 
 
 
Source: Frontier 
Note: 
Green indicates that the criteria is largely met, yellow indicates that it is partially met, and red indicates 
that it is not met. 
We set out our reasoning in more detail below. 
Instil investor confidence 
 
The key driver of investor confidence is certainty over future revenues, which will 
enable investors to determine the risk that they do not make a return on their initial 
investment. More certainty over returns in turn will reduce the cost of capital which 
investors require, and (other things equal) should help attract new entrants, 
innovation, and instil supply chain confidence. 
In usual circumstances, exposure to wholesale power prices is important because 
this provides investment signals and incentivises efficient dispatch. However, the 
energy transition has required significant government intervention to deliver 
required investment in low carbon generation. Government has taken on a 
decision-making role around the technologies that require investment, and the 
timing of that investment. Business models can be designed to incentivise broadly 
efficient dispatch decisions. Therefore the benefits of exposing investors in low 
carbon power to wholesale prices are lower, and shielding investors from this risk 
has the benefit of reducing the cost of capital and the cost of support. This logic 
has applied to investment in low carbon generation previously, and could be 
argued should also apply to support for early BECCS power plants. 
Power CfD
Carbon payment
Carbon Payment 
+ Power CfD
Instil investor 
confidence
Cost efficient
Feasibility 
Fair cost sharing
Ease of policy 
transition
Instil investor 
confidence
Power CfD
Carbon payment
Carbon Payment 
+ Power CfD
 
frontier economics  
33 
 
 
SUPPORTING THE DEPLOYMENT OF BIOENERGY CARBON CAPTURE AND 
STORAGE (BECCS) IN THE UK: BUSINESS MODEL OPTIONS 
All three options provide certainty over remuneration for negative emissions, which 
is contractually set, either within the power CfD strike price or as the level of carbon 
payment. The main distinction between these options is therefore whether or not 
they shield investors from power market risk. Both options with a power CfD protect 
investors from this risk, whereas the carbon payment does not.  
The power CfD may also have a slight benefit over the other two options because 
it is a private law contract with an established track record, and may therefore give 
investors more confidence than the options that require the establishment of a new 
carbon payment mechanism. However, the carbon payment could be designed 
such that it also provides investors with a high degree of confidence. 
We conclude that the two options with a power CfD perform better than the carbon 
payment alone.  
4.2.1 Cost efficiency 
 
 
The main considerations for cost efficiency are whether the business models: 
 drive efficient management of investment costs; 
 drive efficient quantity of investment; 
 drive efficient dispatch and operation; and 
 risks allocated in an efficient way, taking into account the impact on the cost of 
capital. 
There is no significant distinction between the business models in terms of the 
incentives they create around management of investment costs or quantity of 
investment. In all cases: 
 investors are exposed to investment and operating costs so are incentivised to 
manage these efficiently; and 
 the choice of business model will not drive the quantity of investment, which 
will be approved administratively by government.  
The business models do have different properties in terms of exposing investors 
to wholesale power prices. For dispatchable generation, models that leave power 
price risk with investors would provide more efficient dispatch incentives, as they 
would encourage generators to reduce output when prices are low, and vice versa. 
However, because of the value attached to the negative emissions that a BECCS 
power plant will be delivering when it is generating, it is highly probable that BECCS 
plants will operate with a high load factor28.  As a result, it is less likely that 
 
 
28  We note that even issues around negative pricing of power are less of an issue for BECCS plants than for, 
say, a windfarm.  Even if the power price is negative, there may still be an economic logic for a BECCS 
plant to operate, as a result of the value of negative carbon emissions. 
Power CfD
Carbon payment
Carbon Payment 
+ Power CfD
Cost efficient
 
frontier economics  
34 
 
 
SUPPORTING THE DEPLOYMENT OF BIOENERGY CARBON CAPTURE AND 
STORAGE (BECCS) IN THE UK: BUSINESS MODEL OPTIONS 
protection from power prices under a power CfD will result in significantly distorted 
dispatch incentives (compared to, for example, a gas CCS plant).   
Regarding risk allocation, transferring risks from investors has the potential to 
reduce the investor cost of capital, and therefore reduce consumer/taxpayer costs. 
However, it also means that consumers/taxpayers will bear additional risks, and it 
removes the incentive on investors to manage these risks efficiently.  Allocating 
risk appropriately involves balancing these risks. 
The carbon payment strikes a different balance in that trade-off compared to the 
two options with a power CfD, as it leaves investors with power price exposure, 
likely resulting in a higher cost of capital. Investors will have some ability to respond 
to power price signals through their dispatch decisions. However this may be  
limited because, as explained above, BECCS power plants are likely to operate 
with a very high load factor. The options with a power CfD on the other hand shield 
investors from this risk, and may deliver a lower cost of capital.  
Therefore we conclude that while the options have different risk allocations, all of 
them appear reasonable, and overall all three options perform relatively well on 
efficiency. 
4.2.2 Feasibility 
 
We have considered a number of features of each of the business models relating 
to feasibility: 
 administrative burden: the power CfD performs better on this than the 
business models involving a carbon payment. This is because carbon 
payments are a new form of support and there will be time and cost involved in 
designing and administering these payments, and potentially introducing new 
legislation. However, it is likely that a mechanism for rewarding carbon abated 
and / or removed will need to be designed in any case to support other CCS 
projects, in which case there would be limited additional administrative burden 
in designing and using the mechanism for BECCS. 
 practicality for investors: all business models are practical for investors. 
However, the power CfD is likely to be preferred because investors have 
experience and understanding of power CfDs; 
 requirement for complementary policy: none of the business models require 
the introduction of complementary policies, beyond what would be needed 
anyway for negative emissions and CCS technologies (e.g. monitoring, 
reporting and verification system for negative emissions, and policy on T&S for 
CCS); 
 wider policy and state aid compatibility: all of the business models are 
compatible with wider policy, and we do not foresee any state aid issues in 
relation to business model structure (there will still be considerations around 
Power CfD
Carbon payment
Carbon Payment 
+ Power CfD
Feasibility 
 
frontier economics  
35 
 
 
SUPPORTING THE DEPLOYMENT OF BIOENERGY CARBON CAPTURE AND 
STORAGE (BECCS) IN THE UK: BUSINESS MODEL OPTIONS 
the overall level of support, and issues around cumulation29 of aid would need 
to be considered – however, we would expect any issues to be resolved 
relatively easily); 
 timely implementation: the power CfD performs better than the other options 
on this criteria. In fact, speed of implementation is one of the main strengths of 
using a power CfD, as it is already well established. It would be fairly quick to 
adapt existing CfD terms to apply to BECCS in power. The other options may 
require legislation, which would need to be delivered in time for early projects 
to take their FIDs. . 
Overall, we conclude that the power CfD performs better than the other two 
options. 
4.2.3 Fair cost sharing 
 
As we noted above, any of the support options can be designed to be funded by 
any chosen group, whether that is fossil fuel suppliers, hard-to-abate sectors, 
electricity consumers, or others. In determining the source of funding, government 
will need to take into account a range of factors including efficiency, fairness and 
practicality. We provide more detail on these considerations in Annex B. 
Therefore we conclude that all of the options can be designed to perform well in 
terms of cost sharing. 
4.2.4 Ease of policy transition 
 
As explained in section 3, all of the short-term options we have set out can 
transition to a subsidy free system in the long-term. However, some are better 
suited than others, particularly because they deliver learnings that will aid in the 
transition to an efficient CO2 market that recognises negative emissions. 
We have considered how easy or difficult it would be to transition each of the 
options to a technology neutral business model for future projects, and then to a 
subsidy free business model. 
 
 
29  For example, if the BECCS plant were to participate in a Capacity Remuneration Mechanism. 
Power CfD
Carbon payment
Carbon Payment 
+ Power CfD
Fair cost sharing
Ease of policy 
transition
Power CfD
Carbon payment
Carbon Payment 
+ Power CfD
 
frontier economics  
36 
 
 
SUPPORTING THE DEPLOYMENT OF BIOENERGY CARBON CAPTURE AND 
STORAGE (BECCS) IN THE UK: BUSINESS MODEL OPTIONS 
 ease of transition to technology neutrality: all three options are unlikely to 
have any technology neutral elements in the short-term, although they could 
transition to a mid-term regime which could be technology neutral; and 
 ease of transition to subsidy free: while all of the options can transition to a 
subsidy free system, the power CfD does not create any policy learnings 
around treatment of negative emissions that contribute to this transition. The 
other two options do create learnings around a carbon payment for negative 
emissions that can eventually be broadened to other GGRs and then captured 
within an efficient CO2 market. 
Overall, we conclude that the two-part business model performs best on this 
criterion. The other two options perform less well, with the power CfD performing 
worst as it does not deliver learnings around remunerating negative emissions. 
4.3 Summary 
All three main business model options perform relatively well across most criteria, 
as we have only considered business models that are broadly fit for purpose. 
However, the evaluation above highlights that there are a few key trade-offs that 
must be considered when choosing a business model. These are as follows. 
 investor confidence: the power CfD and the two-part model with a CfD 
perform better than the carbon payment on this measure, as they shield 
investors from wholesale market fluctuations; 
 feasibility: the power CfD performs best on this measure. Because it is well 
established and understood, it will be quick to implement. Introducing carbon 
payments will require some time to introduce a new regime of support 
payments, whether administered by the LCCC or another counterparty (though 
we note that the Government has committed to delivering business models for 
industrial CCUS, and is minded to introduce carbon support payments30); ; and 
 potential to become technology neutral and subsidy free: All three options 
could transition to a mid-term regime which could be technology neutral.  The 
stand-alone power CfD performs least well as it does not deliver any learnings 
around remunerating negative emissions. 
Overall, the two-part model performs well across the BEIS criteria and would offer 
a clear path to a technology neutral and subsidy free world, delivering learnings 
that will be relevant for other GGRs. The power CfD also performs well, other than 
on the longer term transition path. However, it is particularly attractive in terms of 
feasibility, so if shorter-term ease and speed of introduction are key considerations, 
the power CfD may be preferable.  
 
 
30  BEIS (2020), CCUS: An update on business models for Carbon Capture, Usage and Storage 
https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/946561/c
cus-business-models-commercial-update.pdf 
 
frontier economics  
37 
 
 
SUPPORTING THE DEPLOYMENT OF BIOENERGY CARBON CAPTURE AND 
STORAGE (BECCS) IN THE UK: BUSINESS MODEL OPTIONS 
5 CONCLUSIONS 
The Government’s Net Zero target has significantly changed the scale and nature 
of the UK’s decarbonisation challenge. Because of the very high costs and 
potential infeasibility of abatement in certain sectors, negative emissions will need 
to play a key role in meeting the Net Zero target. 
Without BECCS in power, meeting Net Zero may not be possible, and investing in 
this technology early will help reduce the risk around meeting Net Zero and interim 
carbon budgets by helping to offset delays in abatement in other sectors.  
However, given market failures and policy gaps, BECCS in power is unlikely to be 
delivered without further intervention. In particular, under current policy, investors 
would not be remunerated for negative emissions or for the positive learning 
externalities they provide. 
We have shortlisted three main business model options to enable investment in 
first-of-a-kind BECCS power plants consistent with the Q1 2024 FID timeline 
proposed by Drax: 
 a power CfD (providing remuneration for both power and negative emissions); 
 a carbon payment; and  
 a two-part carbon payment and power CfD. 
None of these three options limits options for future business models that would 
apply across GGR technologies. They can therefore be evaluated and considered 
in their own right while thinking on mid-term GGR strategy progresses.  And they 
do not place constraints on who funds the business model, which can therefore be 
considered a separate design choice. Work to define the business model options 
can progress in parallel while views on funding are being developed. 
All three options perform relatively well across our evaluation criteria. Our 
assessment highlights a few key trade-offs that must be considered when choosing 
a business model. These are: 
 investor confidence: the power CfD and two-part model perform better than 
the carbon payment on investor confidence, as they shield investors from 
wholesale market fluctuations; 
 feasibility: the power CfD performs best on feasibility. Because it exists, and 
is well established and understood, it will be quick to implement; and 
 potential to become technology neutral and subsidy free: All three options 
could transition to a mid-term regime which could be technology neutral. The 
two-part model and the carbon payment may provide additional learning on the 
remuneration of negative emissions.  
Overall, the two-part model performs well across the BEIS criteria and would offer 
a clear path to a technology neutral and subsidy free world, delivering learnings 
that will be relevant for other GGRs. The power CfD also performs well, other than 
on the longer term transition path. However, it is particularly attractive in terms of 
feasibility. Both options deliver a number of desirable features: 
 they address identified market failures; 
 
frontier economics  
38 
 
 
SUPPORTING THE DEPLOYMENT OF BIOENERGY CARBON CAPTURE AND 
STORAGE (BECCS) IN THE UK: BUSINESS MODEL OPTIONS 
 they can be implemented relatively simply and in time to capture benefits of 
early BECCS in power investment; and 
 they can be structured to ensure an efficient outcome for customers (including 
with reference to investors’ likely cost of capital) and allocate risks 
appropriately. 
 
 
 
 
frontier economics  
39 
 
 
SUPPORTING THE DEPLOYMENT OF BIOENERGY CARBON CAPTURE AND 
STORAGE (BECCS) IN THE UK: BUSINESS MODEL OPTIONS 
ANNEX A WHY IS IT DESIRABLE TO 
DELIVER BECCS IN THE NEAR 
TERM?  
Achieving investment in BECCS in power in the near term has a number of 
benefits:  
 it can support the development of CCS infrastructure, by acting as an anchor 
load and reducing costs for other users; 
 it will develop technical learnings that can be applied to subsequent BECCS 
power plants and other CCS applications; 
 assuming a business model is used for first-of-a-kind BECCS power plants, this 
will deliver policy learnings that can be applied to other GGRs; and 
 it will help the UK meet its upcoming carbon budgets and stay on track to meet 
Net Zero. 
We provide more detail on each of these points in turn below. 
A.1.1 Developing BECCS will help with the rollout of CCS 
infrastructure, which has wider benefits   
CCS is likely to be a key part of meeting 2050 abatement targets, both globally and 
in the UK. Globally, the International Energy Agency stresses that CCS is “one of 
the most-cost effective solutions available for large scale emission reductions” and 
calls for  “urgent action” in the delivery of CCS infrastructure.31  
In the UK, the recent Energy White Paper, sets out an ambition to capture 10Mt of 
carbon dioxide a year by 2030, investing up to £1 billion to support the 
establishment of CCUS in four industrial clusters32. The CCC stresses the 
importance of accelerating progress in CCS and advocates that the first CCS 
cluster be operational by 2026, with two clusters, capturing at least 10 MtCO₂, 
operating by 2030 in order to meet Net Zero.33 The CCC also believes that CCS is 
important in the development of low carbon hydrogen, which is a key element of 
its scenarios in reaching Net Zero, and particularly important in reducing emissions 
from heat.34 
Early investment in BECCS would help to provide an anchor load for CCS 
infrastructure. By spreading the costs of this infrastructure over the higher volume 
of emissions captured and stored by BECCS, costs to other users of the 
infrastructure (e.g. hydrogen production with CCS and other industrial sectors 
where carbon could be captured, such as cement, iron, steel and refineries) will be 
 
 
31  IEA (2019), Transforming Industry through CCUS, https://www.iea.org/reports/transforming-industry-
through-ccus 
32  BEIS (2020), Powering our Net Zero Future, 
https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/945899/2
01216_BEIS_EWP_Command_Paper_Accessible.pdf  
33  CCC (2019), Net Zero The UK’s contribution to stopping global warming, https://www.theccc.org.uk/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/Net-Zero-The-UKs-contribution-to-stopping-global-warming.pdf 
34  CCC (2019), Net Zero The UK’s contribution to stopping global warming, https://www.theccc.org.uk/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/Net-Zero-The-UKs-contribution-to-stopping-global-warming.pdf 
 
frontier economics  
40 
 
 
SUPPORTING THE DEPLOYMENT OF BIOENERGY CARBON CAPTURE AND 
STORAGE (BECCS) IN THE UK: BUSINESS MODEL OPTIONS 
lower35. These lower costs in turn increase the likely take-up of CCS technologies 
by future users of the infrastructure.  
BECCS could have other positive spill-overs to other technologies that require 
CCS infrastructure, for example:  
 learnings around the use of the infrastructure; 
 demonstrating the reliability of the infrastructure; and 
 an institutional benefit of having an anchor client that can help coordinate with 
government and other players to ensure that the infrastructure is up and 
running. 
A.1.2 Investment in BECCS will deliver innovation, learnings 
and shared skills 
As discussed above, decarbonisation scenarios set out by the CCC and others 
involve significant quantities of BECCS by 2050. However, according to the CCC, 
only one large-scale BECCS power plant capturing over 1 MtCO2/y is in operation 
in the world.36 
Early investment in BECCS in power will help identify and overcome any technical 
hurdles, and will deliver the innovation to bring costs of future BECCS plants down. 
Some examples of the technical challenges that an early BECCS in power plant 
would help address include developing further understanding of: 
 the use of amine solvent, which is proven with fossil use, but where further 
experience is needed on biomass combustion flue gases at scale; and 
 optimisation of plant performance, integration with existing plant, energy 
efficiency and innovation, all of which have the potential to reduce costs for 
future BECCS in power projects. 
BECCS will also deliver learnings and skills around CCS that can be relevant to 
many other technologies that make use of CCS, including DACCS and most types 
of hydrogen production. The Government already has a knowledge sharing 
initiative around CCS, through which learnings from the White Rose and Peterhead 
CCS projects have been shared.37 These learnings include information around 
T&S costs and risks, insight that can help reduce the uncertainty around CCS, and 
encourage investment. 
Investment in BECCS will provide further learnings around CCS technology in a 
new context. For example: 
 learnings on interfacing with a T&S system (both technically and commercially); 
 learnings for industrial CCS where flue gases have more in common with 
biomass than gas (e.g. particulates and metal elements); and 
 
 
35  If transport and storage is developed under a Regulated Asset Base model which determines a level of 
revenue to be recovered in any given year, a higher volume of emissions transported and stored in that year 
(as a result of BECCS volumes) should imply a lower unit tariff for all infrastructure users.  
36  CCC (2019), Net Zero The UK’s contribution to stopping global warming, https://www.theccc.org.uk/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/Net-Zero-The-UKs-contribution-to-stopping-global-warming.pdfCCC (2019) Net 
Zero, p.93 
37  BEIS (2016), Carbon Capture and Storage knowledge sharing, 
https://www.gov.uk/government/collections/carbon-capture-and-storage-knowledge-sharing 
 
frontier economics  
41 
 
 
SUPPORTING THE DEPLOYMENT OF BIOENERGY CARBON CAPTURE AND 
STORAGE (BECCS) IN THE UK: BUSINESS MODEL OPTIONS 
 building on UK CCS expertise. 
A.1.3 If a business model is used to deliver BECCS in the 
near term, this will provide policy learnings 
Finally, assuming a business model is used to enable investment in BECCS in 
power, policy experience gained through the design and implementation of this 
model will be useful for future business models for other technologies. In particular, 
understanding how to remunerate negative emissions will be essential for 
achieving sufficient investment in GGRs of all kinds over the coming years. 
A.1.4 Developing BECCS in power in the near term will help 
the UK meet upcoming carbon budgets and ultimately 
Net Zero  
Although the UK met its first two carbon budgets (2008-2012 and 2013-2017) and 
is on its way to meeting the third (2018-2022), it is expected to miss its fourth by 
109 MtCO2e and its fifth by 165 MtCO2e (2023-2027 and 2028-2032). This is 
illustrated in the figure below, which is based on the latest BEIS emissions 
projections.38  
Figure 13 
Actual and projected performance against carbon budgets 
 
Source:    Data from BEIS, Updated Energy and Emissions Projections: 2018, 
https://www.gov.uk/government/collections/energy-and-emissions-projections#history 
Since the carbon budgets are legally binding, missing them entails risks for the 
Government – for example, potentially exposing it to legal action. Given this, there 
is potential value in introducing a technology which can start to deliver negative 
emissions by the fifth carbon budget, and make a significant contribution to future 
carbon budgets on the path to Net Zero by 2050.  
 
 
 38BEIS (2019) Updated Energy and Emissions Projections, 
https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/794590/u
pdated-energy-and-emissions-projections-2018.pdf 
1,600
1,800
2,000
2,200
2,400
2,600
2,800
3,000
3,200
1,600
1,800
2,000
2,200
2,400
2,600
2,800
3,000
3,200
Carbon
Budget 1
Carbon
Budget 2
Carbon
Budget 3
Carbon
Budget 4
Carbon
Budget 5
2008-12
2013-17
2018-22
2023-27
2028-32
Emissions (MtCO2e)
Upper 95%
confidence interval
Lower 95%
confidence interval
Outturn/projection
Carbon budget
 
frontier economics  
42 
 
 
SUPPORTING THE DEPLOYMENT OF BIOENERGY CARBON CAPTURE AND 
STORAGE (BECCS) IN THE UK: BUSINESS MODEL OPTIONS 
Ensuring that GGR technologies are in place early also reduces the risk of delays 
in deployment impacting the ability of the UK to offset residual emissions by 2050. 
It ensures that there is sufficient time to capture the benefits of learnings and 
positive spillovers from first-of-a-kind plants. It may also ensure that sufficient GGR 
options are available to enable competition between GGRs at a stage when 
technologies are sufficiently mature. 
The rate at which the UK abates will have a direct impact on the UK’s contribution 
to the global rise in temperatures. As shown below, meeting Net Zero by 2050 has 
a significant impact on global temperatures compared to the initial target of an 80% 
reduction by 2050.  
Figure 14 
UK impact on global temperature in 2070, under future 
emissions pathways 
 
Source: CCC Net Zero supporting data, https://www.theccc.org.uk/publication/net-zero-the-uks-contribution-to-
stopping-global-warming/#supporting-research,-charts-and-data, chapter 2 
The importance of early investment in BECCS in power is reflected in National 
Grid’s FES scenarios.39 Across the three scenarios that meet Net Zero, BECCS in 
power is deployed from the period between 2025 and 2030. 
 
 
39  National Grid (2020) Future Energy Scenarios, 
https://www.nationalgrideso.com/document/173821/download 
0.000
0.001
0.002
0.003
0.004
0.005
0.006
Net-zero 2045
Net-zero 2050
Net-zero 2060
(90% reduction
in 2050)
Net-zero 2070
(80% reduction
in 2050)
80% reduction
in 2050
(maintained)
UK contribution to warming (°C, relative to 
2020)
 
frontier economics  
43 
 
 
SUPPORTING THE DEPLOYMENT OF BIOENERGY CARBON CAPTURE AND 
STORAGE (BECCS) IN THE UK: BUSINESS MODEL OPTIONS 
Figure 15 
BECCS electricity generation capacity in FES 
 
Source: National Grid (2020) FES 
 
 
frontier economics  
44 
 
 
SUPPORTING THE DEPLOYMENT OF BIOENERGY CARBON CAPTURE AND 
STORAGE (BECCS) IN THE UK: BUSINESS MODEL OPTIONS 
ANNEX B FUNDING PRINCIPLES AND 
CANDIDATE GROUPS 
B.1 Principles to guide funding decisions 
We have identified three key principles that can be used to guide a decision on 
which group or groups fund a chosen business model: efficiency, fairness and 
practicality. There are trade-offs between these principles, and these should be 
considered carefully when making a decision. We provide more detail around each 
of these principles below. 
Efficiency  
There are two aspects to efficiency, the first relates to creating efficient incentives, 
and the second relates to avoiding distortions: 
 efficient incentives: in applying a levy to certain groups or sectors, there is an 
opportunity to do this in a way that tries to replicate the incentives and outcomes 
that an efficient carbon price would achieve. For various reasons, there are 
many sectors that are currently not covered by the EU Emissions Trading 
Scheme (or are covered, but receive free certificates), and do not face other 
domestic taxes based on emissions. These sectors therefore face an implicit 
carbon price which is lower than that of other sectors which are part of the ETS, 
and which do face additional taxes.  We refer to these sectors as “undertaxed” 
sectors, and examples may include aviation and agriculture. If it is possible to 
raise funding for a chosen business model from these groups, then this may 
help deliver good outcomes in terms of delivering something closer to an 
economy-wide carbon price.  
However, identifying these sectors reliably may be complex, and would require 
a careful analysis of current effective tax rates to determine whether and by 
how much a sector is undertaxed. 
 avoiding distortions: beyond ensuring a consistent carbon price across the 
economy, efficiently raising funding involves taxing groups that have more 
inelastic demand. This is because the required funds can be raised while 
causing fewest distortions to behaviour. This may mean, for example, avoiding 
recovering funds from sectors which are exposed to international competition 
or where there is a risk of offshoring.  
Fairness 
This principle refers to protecting vulnerable groups. This is in itself complex, as 
the relationship between income and consumption of particular products is typically 
complex.   
However, the fairness principle may indicate that it is better to avoiding trying to 
recover funds from sectors which are high up typical value chains.  This is because, 
if this cost recovery pushes up the price of significant numbers of intermediate and 
final products, it may then be harder to prevent it impacting vulnerable customer 
groups.  
 
frontier economics  
45 
 
 
SUPPORTING THE DEPLOYMENT OF BIOENERGY CARBON CAPTURE AND 
STORAGE (BECCS) IN THE UK: BUSINESS MODEL OPTIONS 
Practicality 
This principle aims to ensure that a chosen funding approach is manageable to 
implement and monitor, and transparent in how it functions. This may rule out 
taxing sectors where there are a large number of players or a large number of 
inputs to a product, as this increases the administrative burden.  
B.1.1 Trade-offs between principles 
There are tensions and trade-offs between all of these principles. For example: 
 the second efficiency principle encourages taxing groups with inelastic 
demand. However, this is in tension with the fairness principle, because 
vulnerable groups may have more inelastic demand; and 
 the fairness principle encourages taxing lower down in the value chain, 
whereas the practicality principles encourage taxing higher up (as there are 
likely to be fewer entities, making business models administratively simpler).  
An appropriate balance therefore needs to be struck. It may be possible to address 
multiple principles by imposing the levy in a way that focuses on achieving 
efficiency, but then making lump-sum transfers (e.g. through increased benefits) to 
sub-groups in order to address any fairness concerns. However this would then 
create additional complexity. It is also important to keep in mind that political 
considerations will inevitably drive a large part of this decision. 
B.2 Options for groups that could fund a chosen 
business model 
We have identified five groups that could be candidates for funding a chosen 
business model. These have been chosen because there is:  
 a rationale (based on the principles above) for charging this group;  
 a precedent for targeting this group; or  
 previous research has argued that these groups should fund climate change 
policies.  
We set out these groups in the table below, and for each we discuss the pros and 
cons of targeting that group. 
 
frontier economics  
46 
 
 
SUPPORTING THE DEPLOYMENT OF BIOENERGY CARBON CAPTURE AND 
STORAGE (BECCS) IN THE UK: BUSINESS MODEL OPTIONS 
Figure 16 
Candidate groups for funding a chosen business model 
Level in 
value chain 
Candidate 
group 
Pros 
Cons 
 
Upstream 
Fossil fuel 
suppliers 
Practical: 
straightforward to 
administer due to limited 
number of players 
No way to focus the tax 
on undertaxed or 
inelastic sectors, or to 
protect vulnerable 
groups 
 
Undertaxed 
emitters 
Incentivises behaviour 
that replicates outcomes 
of an efficient carbon 
price 
 Difficult to accurately 
identify undertaxed 
emitters  
 Some sectors (e.g. 
those exposed to 
international 
competition) may 
have elastic demand 
 
Undertaxed 
emitters not 
exposed to 
international 
competition 
Incentivises behaviour 
that replicates outcomes 
of an efficient carbon 
price 
Difficult to accurately 
identify undertaxed 
emitters – and exposure 
to international 
competition is a 
subjective measure 
 
 
Electricity 
suppliers/users 
 
There is precedent 
for taxing this group, 
which has relatively 
inelastic demand 
 Taxing at this level 
makes it slightly 
easier to protect 
vulnerable groups 
Electricity users already 
face significantly more 
tax than many other 
emitting sectors 
Downstream 
Taxpayers 
Relatively easy to 
administer 
No way to focus the tax 
on undertaxed or 
inelastic sectors 
Source:  Frontier 
The table sets out a subset of credible funding options – there are clearly numerous 
further options which could be considered.  In this report we do not provide a view 
on which of these groups (or other groups) should fund a chosen business model. 
This is a decision that will ultimately need to be taken by policymakers, by weighing 
up the pros and cons and political feasibility of different options. 
 
 
frontier economics  
47 
 
 
SUPPORTING THE DEPLOYMENT OF BIOENERGY CARBON CAPTURE AND 
STORAGE (BECCS) IN THE UK: BUSINESS MODEL OPTIONS 
  
 
www.frontier-economics.com 
