19/11/2019
Capital Markets Day; Trading Update - RNS - London Stock Exchange
https://www.londonstockexchange.com/exchange/news/market-news/market-news-detail/DRX/14313027.html
1/4
Drax Group PLC   -  DRX   
Regulatory Story
Go to market news section
   
Capital Markets Day; Trading Update
Released 07:00 19-Nov-2019
RNS Number : 8192T
Drax Group PLC
19 November 2019
 
19 November 2019
Drax Group plc
("Drax" or the "Company"; Symbol:DRX)
 
Investment Programme in Biomass Capacity Expansion and Cost
Reduction;
Capital Markets Day;
Trading Update
 
Highlights
·    Targeting biomass self-supply capacity of five million tonnes by 2027
-  1.5 million tonnes of existing capacity, plus 0.35 million tonnes of low-
cost capacity announced at the 2019 half year results
-  Evaluating options for a further three million tonnes over the next seven
years
-  Supports target to reduce biomass cost by c.30 percent to c.£50/MWh
-  Targeting returns significantly in excess of the Group's cost of capital
·    Trading update - in-line with expectations
-  Acquired assets performing strongly
-  Capacity Market restored and included in 2019 Adjusted EBITDA(1)
Will Gardiner, Drax Group CEO said:
"Drax's purpose is to enable a zero-carbon lower cost energy future. We
believe sustainable biomass has a long-term critical role to play. That's why we
plan to supply 80 percent of our biomass from our own sources - a significant
increase on the 20 percent we currently self-supply. Supplying more of our
own biomass will cut costs and reduce supply chain risks, ensuring our
biomass power generation remains viable in the long term. When combined
with carbon capture it will also enable negative emissions, helping the UK on
its path to net zero by 2050."
Capital Markets Day
Drax is today hosting a Capital Markets Day for investors and analysts.
Will Gardiner and his management team will update on how the Group is
delivering on its purpose. The day will outline the significant opportunities Drax
sees in growing its biomass supply and renewable generation businesses.
19/11/2019
Capital Markets Day; Trading Update - RNS - London Stock Exchange
https://www.londonstockexchange.com/exchange/news/market-news/market-news-detail/DRX/14313027.html
2/4
Investment in biomass to increase capacity and reduce cost
As a part of the Group's key strategic objective of building a long-term future
for sustainable biomass, Drax remains focused on opportunities to reduce its
cost of biomass to a level which is economic without subsidy in 2027.
These savings will be delivered through further optimisation of existing
biomass operations and greater utilisation of low-cost wood residues; an
expansion of the fuel envelope to incorporate other renewable fuels and; a
significant expansion of self-supply capacity.
Drax is targeting five million tonnes of self-supply capacity by 2027 (1.5 million
today, plus 0.35 million tonnes in development), with greater scope for
operational leverage and cost reduction. Drax will continue to work with its
current suppliers to develop its portfolio.
At the 2019 half year results, Drax announced an investment in low-cost
capacity at its existing three sites in the US Gulf, adding 350k tonnes of new
capacity by 2021. The capital cost is in the region of £50 million, enabling
targeted fuel cost savings in excess of £15/MWh on the additional capacity
once commissioned.
Drax is evaluating options to deliver an additional three million tonnes of
capacity. These options are expected to deliver returns significantly in excess
of the Group's cost of capital, with strong cash flow generation and a fast
payback.
These activities would enable Drax to develop an unsubsidised biomass
generation business by 2027, with the option to service wood pellet demand in
other markets - Europe, North America and Asia.
Biomass sustainability is at the heart of the Group's activities and Drax has
implemented industry leading processes which support this expansion,
encourage forest growth and make a positive contribution to climate change.
Options for gas generation
Drax continues to see flexible gas generation as an enabler of greater
renewable and low carbon generation, in addition to supporting the
development of hydrogen.
Any investment decision would reflect Drax's objective of delivering earnings
visibility and be underpinned by a 15-year capacity agreement to support a low
double-digit rate of return. Drax would consider a range of funding options,
including partnerships, consistent with Drax's balance sheet objective of
around 2 x net debt to Adjusted EBITDA over time.
Capital allocation and dividend
Drax remains committed to the capital allocation policy established in 2017.
Trading and operational performance
The performance of the assets acquired from Iberdrola in December 2018 has
been strong, particularly the pumped storage business which has performed
well, driven by the system support market. Drax reiterates the Adjusted
EBITDA(1) guidance provided at the time of acquisition, of £90-£110 million in
the 2019 financial year.
In July, Drax completed the refinancing of the acquisition bridge facility used to
acquire these assets. These facilities now extend the Group's debt maturity
profile to 2029, adding an ESG(2) facility with a mechanism that adjusts the
margin based on Drax's carbon emissions against an annual benchmark. The
Group's cost of debt is now below four percent and below three percent on the
new facilities, reflecting the Group's reduced business risk. The Group
continues to identify opportunities to optimise its balance sheet and cash flow.
During the summer, Drax completed major planned outages on two biomass
units. Following a delayed return to service, the plan is to run all four ROC(3)
units at high utilisation levels in the fourth quarter of 2019.
The outlook for coal generation remains challenging and Drax continues to
monitor the situation with regards to future operation, noting that all unabated
UK coal generation must close by 2025.
19/11/2019
Capital Markets Day; Trading Update - RNS - London Stock Exchange
https://www.londonstockexchange.com/exchange/news/market-news/market-news-detail/DRX/14313027.html
3/4
CLOSE
Following formal confirmation from the UK Government, Drax expects the
Capacity Market to be re-instated shortly, with full retrospective payments
made for the capacity provided. Capacity payments due to Drax for 2019 and
since the suspension of the Capacity Market in 2018 are £75 million. Drax
expects these to be included in 2019 Adjusted EBITDA(1), with cash settlement
in January 2020.
 
These factors underpin the Group's expectations for full year Adjusted
EBITDA(1), which remain unchanged and around 2 x net debt to Adjusted
EBITDA(1) when adjusted to reflect cash payment of retrospective capacity
payments received in January 2020.
Capital Markets Day webcast and presentation material
The event will be webcast from 9.30am and the material made available on the
Group's website at the same time. Joining instructions for the webcast and
presentation are included in the links below.
 
http://view-w.tv/3-1479-22819/en
 
https://www.drax.com/investors/capital-markets-day/
 
Notes:
(1)   Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation, excluding the impact of exceptional items and
certain remeasurements.
(2)   Environmental Social and Governance.
(3)   Renewable Obligation Certificate.
 
Enquiries:
Drax Investor Relations: Mark Strafford
+44 (0) 1757 612 491
 
Media:
Drax External Communications: Matt Willey
+44 (0) 203 943 4306
 
Website: www.drax.com
 
END
This information is provided by RNS, the news service of the London Stock Exchange. RNS is approved by the
Financial Conduct Authority to act as a Primary Information Provider in the United Kingdom. Terms and conditions
relating to the use and distribution of this information may apply. For further information, please contact rns@lseg.com
or visit www.rns.com.
 
END
 
 
MSCBPBTTMBTBTBL 
London Stock Exchange plc is not responsible for and does not check content on this Website. Website users are
responsible for checking content. Any news item (including any prospectus) which is addressed solely to the persons
and countries specified therein should not be relied upon other than by such persons and/or outside the specified
countries. Terms and conditions, including restrictions on use and distribution apply.
©2014 London Stock Exchange plc. All rights reserved
19/11/2019
Capital Markets Day; Trading Update - RNS - London Stock Exchange
https://www.londonstockexchange.com/exchange/news/market-news/market-news-detail/DRX/14313027.html
4/4
 
Capital Markets Day; Trading Update - RNS
