 
 
 
October 2020 
 
 
An investor guide to negative emission technologies and the importance of land use 
 
2 
Executive Summary 
Negative Emission Technologies (NETs) are the next investment frontier and offer trillion dollar upside 
opportunities for investors.1 Within NETs, forest-related Nature-Based Solutions (NBS) could generate 
US$800 billion in annual revenues by 2050, worth US$1.2 trillion today in NPV terms,2 surpassing the current 
market capitalisation of the oil & gas majors.3 Hence, an entire new industry may emerge that values carbon 
stored in vegetation and soil, unlocking new business models and investment opportunities for avoided 
deforestation, reforestation and afforestation (hereinafter re/afforestation), and land restoration. Thanks to 
its low cost, natural forest restoration looks likely to emerge as the earliest feasible investment opportunity. 
The sector’s annual revenues could reach US$190 billion by 2050. Avoided deforestation may generate the 
remaining annual revenues with US$610 billion by 2050, but it is further from commercialisation as it 
involves more complex compensation mechanisms (The Inevitable Forest Finance Response: Investor 
Opportunities, commissioned by the PRI (Principles for Responsible Investment)). Technical solutions, such as 
Direct Air Carbon Capture, Use and Storage (DACCS) and bioenergy with CCS (BECCS), could generate an 
additional annual revenue of US$625 billion by 2050.4 This report provides transparency around NETs 
assumptions of climate scenarios and corporate net-zero commitments, presents risks and uncertainties 
associated with NETs, and assesses what upside opportunities NETs – particularly NBS and, within this, 
forestry – can offer to investors. 
Proportion of global GDP covered by net zero targets is growing. Mounting investor pressure and changing 
consumer preferences are contributing to an increase in net-zero commitments, particularly among heavy 
emitters in oil & gas, utilities, steel, cement, automobile, food, and aviation. Already, over half of global GDP, 
2.6 billion people and a quarter of carbon emissions are covered by a national net-zero target (ECIU, 2020).  
Since late 2019, the number of companies committed to net zero increased by two-fold from 500 recorded 
in 2019 to 1,541 in 2020, while the increase for cities was eight-fold from 100 recorded in 2019 to 823 more 
in 2020 (UNFCCC, 2020). Since January 2020, 379 more companies committed to science-based climate 
action and joined the Science Based Targets initiative list, increasing the number of companies on the list to 
1009 as of October 2020 (Science Based Targets, 2020). At Climate Week NYC 2020, 17 new companies 
announced science based net zero commitments, including LafargeHolcim the world’s largest cement 
company and C.P.Group, one of Asia’s leading conglomerates.   
Paris-aligned climate scenarios project that NETs are needed to achieve net-zero. 5 The Inevitable Policy 
Response (IPR) Forecast Policy Scenario (FPS), commissioned by the Principles for Responsible Investment 
(the UN-supported investor group representing $86 trillion in AuM), forecasts a forceful, abrupt and 
disorderly policy response to climate change and quantifies the financial impact this will have on economies 
and securities markets. It shows that biogenic greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions6 remain by 2050, as well as 
emissions from agriculture and fertiliser use, and that NETs are required for truly net-zero global emissions. 
These emissions are often missed in climate scenarios that focus on energy only and have a blind spot as 
regards the critical importance of land use. Climate scenarios that limit global warming to 1.5oC require even 
deeper negative emissions to reach their temperature targets. In 2018, the Interfovernmental Panel on 
Climate Change (IPCC) set out four representative pathways that align to a global temperature rise of 1.5oC, 
 
1 Also known as carbon dioxide removal (CDR). NETs are technical solutions and Nature Based Solutions (NBS) that sequester carbon from the 
atmosphere. 
2 Estimates are in 2019 US$ terms. See Box 1 for further detail. 
3 As of June 2020. Oil & gas majors include BP, Chevron, China National Offshore Oil, ConoccoPhilips, Enterprise Product Partners, EOG Resources, 
ExxonMobil, Kinder Morgan, Occidental Petroleum, Petrobas, PetroChina Company, Santos, Schlumberger, Sinopec, Suncor Energy, and Total. 
4 The annual revenue is estimated for annual CO2 sequestration of 5 GtCO2/year at a cost of US$125 per tCO2 and considers only revenue from 
sequestered CO2 emissions. 
5 The Paris Agreement sets out to hold “the increase in the global average temperature to well below 2°C above pre-industrial levels and pursuing 
efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels” and “to achieve a balance between anthropogenic emissions by sources 
and removals by sinks of greenhouse gases in the second half of this century” i.e. net-zero emissions. 
6 Biogenic GHG emissions are related to the natural carbon cycle and result from harvest, combustion, digestion, fermentation, decomposition, or 
processing of biologically based materials (EPA, 2020). 
 
An investor guide to negative emission technologies and the importance of land use 
 
3 
and even the most ambitious emissions reductions scenario, P1, relies on NETs to sequester 2.5 GtCO2/year 
by 2050. As policy responses to reduce emissions are delayed, NETs will inevitably grow in importance in 
keeping global temperature rise to well below 2oC. In P4, total negative emissions are 16 GtCO2 in 2050, 
corresponding to around half of CO2 emissions from combustion of fossil fuels today. The reliance of the 
climate scenarios on NETs increases further in the second half of the century. 
Companies realise the need for NETs to decarbonise their value chains and hence meet their net zero 
targets. While some companies plan to utilise technical solutions, such as Microsoft considering BECCS and 
DACCS (Smith, 2020) and British Airways’ parent IAG exploring DACCS (Otley, 2020), most companies are 
likely to invest in NBS to offset their CO2 emissions. Of 42 companies announcing net-zero targets in 2019-
20, 26 are planning to use NETs, and 24 of these 26 companies refer to NBS (Vivid Economics using 
(American University, 2020)). However, the majority of net-zero targets announced by corporates are 
currently vague, and more detail is needed to understand the contribution of NBS, BECCS and DACCS to 
emissions reductions commtiments. 
In almost all  Paris-aligned scenarios, BECCS is the leading NET because of its double gains through energy 
generation and CO2 sequestration; yet producing high levels of bioenergy is likely to push the world to its 
planetary boundaries in terms of water and land availability. In the case of the IPCC scenarios, cumulative 
BECCS up to 2100 ranges from 151 GtCO2 in IPCC P2 – which has an incredibly ambitious decarbonisation 
pathway halving emissions from 37 GtCO2 to 19 GtCO2 between 2020 and 2030 - to 1,191 GtCO2 in IPCC P4. 
However, too much is expected from land as various parties plan in isolation to utilise land for diverse 
purposes, such as energy security through bioenergy, food security, and urbanisation. As a finite source, land 
will not be able to deliver all these expectations. An over-reliance on BECCS could threaten biodiversity as it 
may require harvesting of existing forests and conversion of protected areas to monoculture plantations 
(Fern, 2018), exacerbating the current biodiversity crisis – around 1 million plant and animal species, 12% of 
the estimated global specifies, are currently under threat of extinction (IPBES, 2019). Moreover, clearing land 
for bioenergy could reduce the natural CO2 sequestration potential of land, cancelling out some of the 
carbon sequestered through BECCS. The technology could also run counter to a just transition as it is likely to 
compete with food production for land, pushing up food prices. BECCS may also disadvantage small holders 
who rely on land for income and food supplies through changes in land tenure. To limit its negative side 
effects, BECCS should be contained to a sustainable scale, at around 0.5 – 5 GtCO2/year (Fuss et al., 2018).7 
Developing an understanding of NETs will give investors an early mover advantage in the most profitable 
investment opportunities and help them to judge risks and potential returns accurately. Given the limited 
sustainable CO2 removal potential of BECCS, countries, cities and corporates will need to turn to a portfolio 
of NETs to reach their net-zero targets. Deploying a portfolio of multiple NETs, each at a sustainable scale, 
would provide a hedge against uncertainties and negative impacts associated with the large-scale application 
of each NET. Most importantly, to reduce exposure of their portfolios to carbon-exposed sectors, investors 
need to put pressure on companies to commit to climate action and stop themselves investing in companies 
with deforestation in their supply chains (Ceres, 2020).  
In the near term, investors can reap the greatest financial gains from NBS, especially through measures 
arresting deforestation and promoting re/afforestation. In the longer term, post-2040, as BECCS approaches  
its sustainable limit, technical solutions, such as DACCS, are opportunities to watch, as illustrated in Figure 1. 
Besides adhering to the principle of doing no more harm – i.e. ending deforestation and habitat destruction 
– re/afforestation are the least-costly and most readily deployable at-scale options among NETs. Given the 
advantages of NBS, deforestation needs to be stopped now, and re/ afforestation should start immediately 
to decrease overshooting emissions targets and to limit exposure to risky NETs that could have uncertain 
performance, costs and potential negative side effects in the coming decades. In the longer term, post-2040, 
technology-focused NETs, such as DACCS, could be economically viable alternatives to BECCS as their costs 
 
7 At this level of CO2 removal potential, the literature estimates that the cost of BECCS would range from US$100 per tonne CO2 to US$200 per tonne 
CO2. 
 
An investor guide to negative emission technologies and the importance of land use 
 
4 
are falling – if investors and corporates channel funds towards further research, development, and 
deployment in 2020s and 2030s (Fuss et al., 2018; Realmonte et al., 2019).  
Figure 1 
In the nearterm, NBS and particularly forestry provide investment opportunities while focusing on RD&D 
for other NETs and deploy a feasible amount of BECCS in the long run 
 
Source: 
Vivid Economics 
Big oil and Big tech have already started to channel their resources into forest related NBS to achieve new 
net-zero targets — and in turn this is driving demand for NBS carbon credits. Shell forecasts that roughly a 
quarter of emission reductions to reach net-zero will come from natural sinks and has started to invest in 
forest-related projects, such as the planting of 5 million trees in the Netherlands and regenerating an 800 ha 
forest in Australia (Shell, 2019, 2020b). BP is currently running an offset programme, protecting 40,000 ha of 
forest in Zambia. Total is committed to investing US$100 million per year in forest protection (IOM3, 2019; 
BP, 2020). Technology companies are also pursuing similar projects. Apple is protecting a 11,000 ha 
mangrove forest in Colombia, and Microsoft has committed to support selected forest projects by paying 
US$15/tCO2, higher than the global average of US$10/tCO2 (Catanoso, 2020). Amazon has launched the Right 
Now Climate Fund, investing US$100 million in NBS. The first project of US$10 million was announced in 
April 2020 to restore and conserve 1.6 Mha forest in the US, removing 18 MtCO2 from the atmosphere 
(Amazon, 2020b). Consequently, corporate net-zero commitments are driving the demand for NBS carbon 
credits. From 2017 to 2018, the voluntary offset market doubled in volume from approximately 50 million to 
100 million offsets and in value from US$150 million to US$300 million (Gross, Hook and Powley, 2019a). In 
2019, Verra, a carbon credit standard, issued around 100 million voluntary carbon credits, over twice the 
amount issued previously in a single year (Verra, 2020a). By 2050, the value of the global voluntary offset 
market could reach US$200 billion, increasing by around a quarter every year (Watson, 2020). 
 
An investor guide to negative emission technologies and the importance of land use 
 
5 
Figure 2 
Companies have already started to channel their resources to forest-related NBS projects 
 
Source: 
Vivid Economics 
The emerging NBS market provides a unique opportunity to investors to shape its design for their needs 
while driving its impact. Investors could support the NBS market’s institutional development by engaging 
with policymakers and developing innovative business models and financing mechanisms to channel finance 
to the market. New financing mechanisms are already emerging. Examples include distressed asset and 
stewardship models, carbon farming agreements, green bonds, forest insurance provision, carbon off-taker 
guarantees, and sustainable farming agreements. Investors could also engage with policymakers to promote 
a global standard for NBS projects which could help to create a global market and unlock the global finance 
that is crucial for a rapid scale-up.  
 
An investor guide to negative emission technologies and the importance of land use 
 
6 
Contents 
Executive Summary ........................................................................................................................... 2 
1 
Investors need to understand risks and opportunities associated with NETs ................................... 8 
2 
IPR FPS and almost all Paris-aligned climate scenarios rely on NETs ................................................. 9 
3 
Companies are committing to net zero and realise the need for NETs to decarbonise their value 
chains .............................................................................................................................................. 12 
4 
Climate scenarios rely largely on BECCS, but it is unlikely to deliver projected negative 
emissions ......................................................................................................................................... 15 
5 
A portfolio of NETs with immediate forestry action is required to limit global warming at 1.5–
2oC ................................................................................................................................................... 17 
6 
Companies and investors have already started to invest in forest-related NBS projects ................ 21 
7 
Investors can act now to unlock investment opportunities............................................................. 23 
Appendix 1 – Corporate net zero announcements .......................................................................... 28 
Appendix 2 – Climate scenarios ....................................................................................................... 29 
Appendix 3 – NETs ........................................................................................................................... 33 
Appendix 4 – Feasibility of NETs ...................................................................................................... 39 
Acknowledgements ......................................................................................................................... 47 
 
List of tables 
Table 1 
Companies’ net zero targets and measures to achieve them ......................................................... 13 
Table 2 
Companies’ net zero targets and measures to achieve them ......................................................... 28 
Table 3 
Metrics and descriptions used to compare climate pathway scenarios .......................................... 29 
Table 4 
Pathway scenario comparison ......................................................................................................... 30 
Table 5 
Overview of carbon removal potential, costs, constraints, and side effects of NETs ...................... 39 
 
List of figures 
Figure 1 In the nearterm, NBS and particularly forestry provide investment opportunities while focusing 
on RD&D for other NETs and deploy a feasible amount of BECCS in the long run ............................ 4 
Figure 2 Companies have already started to channel their resources to forest-related NBS projects ............ 5 
Figure 3 The climate scenarios differ in their emissions pathways although they have similar 
temperature targets ........................................................................................................................ 10 
Figure 4 All climate scenarios rely on NETs to reach a well-below 2oC pathway, but abatement is also 
needed ............................................................................................................................................ 11 
Figure 5 The deployment of BECCS and NBS varies across the climate scenarios ......................................... 16 
Figure 6 Each NET has its own characteristics in terms of technological maturity, side effects, 
constraints, and future cost and carbon removal potential trends ................................................. 18 
Figure 7 Afforestation and reforestation, and soil carbon sequestration have the lowest costs among the 
NETs ................................................................................................................................................. 19 
Figure 8 Companies have already started to channel their resources to forest-related NBS projects .......... 21 
Figure 9 In the nearterm, NBS and particularly forestry provide investment opportunities while focusing 
on RD&D for other NETs and deploy a feasible amount of BECCS in the long run .......................... 24 
Figure 10 Deforestation across a company’s supply chain jeopardises its valuation ...................................... 25 
 
An investor guide to negative emission technologies and the importance of land use 
 
7 
Figure 11 NETs can be classified under technical solutions and nature-based solutions ................................ 33 
Figure 12 The range of CO2 removal potential per year for each NET............................................................. 41 
Figure 13 The range of CO2 sequestration cost in 2050 for each NET ............................................................. 42 
 
 
 
An investor guide to negative emission technologies and the importance of land use 
 
8 
1 Investors need to understand risks and 
opportunities associated with NETs 
Paris-aligned climate scenarios and corporate net zero announcements have shown that Negative Emissions 
Technologies (NETs) are needed to achieve net zero emissions and chip away at the overshoot. To limit 
global warming to 1.5 or 2°C by the end of the century, reducing CO2 emissions and capturing CO2 from large 
emission sources are not sufficient. Capturing CO2 using technologies that remove and sequester CO2 from 
the atmosphere – NETs – will also be necessary. The Inevitable Policy Response (IPR) Forecast Policy Scenario 
(FPS), which models a forceful, abrupt, and disorderly policy response to climate change by 2025, shows that 
biogenic greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions remain, as well as emissions from agriculture and fertiliser use, 
thereby requiring NETs for truly net zero global emissions. Even then, climate scenarios that limit global 
warming to 1.5oC require more negative emissions to reach their temperature targets, and as actions to 
reduce global CO2 emissions are further delayed, NETs will grow in importance for managing the global 
temperature rise. The most important NETs are bioenergy with Carbon Capture and Storage (BECCS), direct 
air capture of CO2 with CCS (DACCS), afforestation and reforestation (hereinafter re/afforestation), soil 
carbon sequestration, biochar, and enhanced weathering (see Appendix for a detailed presentation of the 
selected NETs). While some NETs are already widely employed, such as re/afforestation, others are at early 
stages of development, such as DACCS, and depend on the supply of other inputs, such as biomass for BECCS 
and minerals for enhanced weathering. 
Relying on NETs for the removal of CO2 from the atmosphere is risky as there are many uncertainties around 
their costs, CO2 removal potential, and side effects. There is ample literature on NETs providing various 
estimates on costs and CO2 removal potential, but these consist of extremely wide ranges based on diverging 
assumptions. Moreover, the potential side effects of NETs are not yet fully understood, increasing the risks 
associated with these technologies. Reliance on NETs that may prove unfeasible and unsustainable for future 
negative emissions could delay mitigation action resulting in high levels of CO2 emissions that could lead to a 
temperature rise beyond 2oC. More research and demonstration projects are needed to address concerns 
around the technical capabilities and potential side effects of NETs.  
Investors need to properly assess and understand uncertainties and risks associated with the NETs that are 
utilised by climate scenarios and corporate net zero targets. While most climate scenarios rely on BECCS to 
meet their temperature targets, corporate net zero commitments also aim to deploy BECCS and Nature-
Based Solutions (NBS) to offset their CO2 emissions. The reliance of climate scenarios on BECCS is an issue as 
producing the levels of bioenergy projected is likely to push the world to its planetary boundaries in terms of 
water and land availability, threatening biodiversity, and running counter to a just transition. Companies’ 
increasing demand for NBS credits hints at shifts in the global offset market that may create investment 
opportunities. Developing an understanding around NETs could allow investors to identify appropriate 
investment opportunities and judge risks and potential returns accurately. 
Against this backdrop, this report provides transparency around NETs assumptions of corporate net zero 
targets and climate scenarios; discusses risks and uncertainties associated with NETs; and assesses what 
upside opportunities NETs can offer to investors. The report first provides an overview of corporate net zero 
targets and how companies aim to achieve these, with a focus on NETs. It then lays out the architecture of 
the IPCC, NGFS and IEA scenarios, and the role of NETs within those. It also offers an in-depth overview of 
the six NETs, their costs and carbon removal potential, as well as possible positive and negative side effects. 
The report concludes with recommendations for investors. 
 
An investor guide to negative emission technologies and the importance of land use 
 
9 
2 IPR FPS and almost all Paris-aligned climate 
scenarios rely on NETs 
For investors it is important to develop an understanding of the climate scenarios and the differences 
between them as these may have ramifications for investor decisions and financial outcomes. Climate 
scenarios are projections of future climate constructed to assess the relationships between human activities, 
emissions, concentrations, and temperature change. Investors have started using climate scenarios for 
resilience and risk-testing to assess the impact of potential tail climate events on their portfolios. As policy 
and technology assumptions and architecture of climate scenarios become more realistic, more investors are 
employing such scenarios for mainstream investment planning and engagement with companies.  
To understand differences between climate scenarios, it is essential to consider their architectures across 
key attributes, such as the shape of the emissions pathway, the year the scenario reaches net zero 
emissions, the emissions overshoot that needs addressing, and the reliance on NETs to meet carbon 
budgets. This has recently been explored by a PRI-commissioned paper, Pathways to Net Zero: Scenario 
Architecture for strategic resilience testing and planning. It sets out key parameters for climate scenarios 
which include the importance of NET assumptions. Table 4 in Appendix 2 summarises a subset of the key 
parameters for the climate scenarios considered in this paper. 
Climate scenarios’ underlying emissions pathways and assumptions can differ dramatically, although they 
may share similar temperature targets. This report considers Paris-aligned climate scenarios that limit global 
warming to a 1.5–2oC temperature rise by 2100. These are IPR FPS, IPCC P1–P4, NGFS Order and Disorderly, 
and Below 2 Degrees (B2D) and Sustainable Development Scenario (SDS) from the IEA. Figure 3 presents the 
CO2 emissions pathways of the selected climate scenarios. Although IPCC P1–P4 and NGFS 1.5oC Orderly and 
Disorderly scenarios have the same 1.5oC temperature target with 66% probability, their CO2 emissions 
pathways differ considerably (IPCC, 2018; NGFS, 2020). The selected climate scenarios reach net zero 
emissions by 2039 at the earliest and 2060 at the latest, a difference of two decades. Overshoot emissions in 
the net zero year range from 55 GtCO2 to 483 GtCO2, a difference that corresponds to the remaining CO2 
budget over 2018–2100 to stabilise global warming at 1.5oC with 66% probability. 
 
 
 
 
An investor guide to negative emission technologies and the importance of land use 
 
10 
Figure 3 
The climate scenarios differ in their emissions pathways although they have similar temperature targets 
 
Note: 
The IPCC P1 scenario is presented in pink as it has the lowest overshoot in the year it reaches net zero 
among the IPCC P1–P4 scenarios. It is a scenario in which social, business and technological innovations 
result in lower energy demand while living standards rise, and its reliance on NETs is low compared with 
the other climate scenarios. 
                      The NGFS 2oC scenarios are also known as the Representative scenarios, and the NGFS 1.5oC scenarios as 
the Alternative scenarios. 
Source: 
Vivid Economics, using IPCC data (IAMC & IIASA, 2019), NGFS data (IIASA, 2020), IPR data (IPR, 2019b), 
and IEA data (‘Energy Technology Perspectives 2017’, no date; IEA, 2019) 
Almost all climate scenarios rely on NETs to reach net zero emissions and limit global warming to 1.5–2oC, 
but NETs alone will not be enough to reach a well-below 2oC pathway, and decarbonisation of power, 
industry and transport are needed as a first measure, with NETs covering biogenic and hard-to-abate 
emissions. Figure 4 shows the shares of NETs and abatement in total emissions reduction for the selected 
scenarios. IPR FPS, which models a forceful, abrupt, and disorderly policy response to climate change by 
2025 and is aligned to a 2oC pathway, shows that NETs are needed to offset biogenic GHG emissions and 
emissions from agriculture and fertiliser use to reach global net zero emissions. In IPR FPS, global CO2 
emissions decrease relative to 2020 by 26 GtCO2/year in 2050, while the NETs share in total emissions 
reductions is around 7%. Climate scenarios that stabilise global warming at 1.5oC may require more negative 
emissions to reach their temperature targets. Regarding the IPCC P1–P4 scenarios, even the most ambitious 
P1 relies on NETs to sequester 2.5 GtCO2/year in 2050, accounting for 7% of the total emissions reduction. As 
policy responses to reduce emissions are delayed, NETs will inevitably grow in importance for keeping global 
temperature rise to well below 2oC. In P4, total NETs emissions are 16 GtCO2 with a far higher share of 42% 
in the total emissions reduction. 
 
An investor guide to negative emission technologies and the importance of land use 
 
11 
Figure 4 
All climate scenarios rely on NETs to reach a well-below 2oC pathway, but abatement is also needed 
 
Note: 
The abatement element shows the emissions reduction from abatement from 2020 to 2050 and 2020 to 
2100. The NETs element shows total negative emissions from NBS and technical solutions in 2020 and 
2050. 
Source: 
Vivid Economics, using IPCC data (IAMC & IIASA, 2019), NGFS data (IIASA, 2020), IPR data (IPR, 2019b), 
and IEA data (‘Energy Technology Perspectives 2017’, no date; IEA, 2019) 
 
 
An investor guide to negative emission technologies and the importance of land use 
 
12 
3 Companies are committing to net zero and realise 
the need for NETs to decarbonise their value 
chains 
Corporate climate action is gaining momentum. In line with the Paris-aligned climate scenarios, mounting 
investor pressure and changing consumer preferences are contributing to an increase in net zero 
commitments, particularly among heavy emitters in the oil & gas, utilities, steel, cement, and aviation 
sectors. Already, over half of global GDP, 2.6 billion people and a quarter of carbon emissions are covered by 
a national net-zero target (ECIU, 2020).  Since late 2019, the number of companies committed to net zero 
increased by three-fold from 500 recorded in 2019 to 1,541 in 2020, while the increase for cities was eight-
fold from 100 recorded in 2019 to 823 more in 2020 (UNFCCC, 2020). At Climate Week NYC 2020, 17 new 
companies announced science based net zero commitments, including LafargeHolcim the world’s largest 
cement company and C.P.Group, one of Asia’s leading conglomerates. 
Despite the Covid-19 pandemic and the global economic slowdown, more companies are committing to 
climate action, and the trend is expected to persist. Since the beginning of 2020, more multinational 
companies have announced net zero targets by 2030–50. Since January 2020, 379 companies have 
committed to science-based climate action and joined the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) list. This 
increases the total number of companies that are taking science-based climate action to 1009 as of October 
2020 (Science Based Targets, 2020). 
Companies realise that NETs such as NBS and technical solutions – BECCS and DACCS – are needed in 
addition to continuing to decarbonise their value chains. While some companies plan to utilise technical 
solutions, such as Microsoft considering BECCS and DACCS (Smith, 2020) and British Airways’ parent IAG 
exploring DACCS (Otley, 2020), most companies are likely to invest in NBS to offset their CO2 emissions. Table 
1 (and Table 2 in the Appendix 1) sets out how selected companies plan to deliver their net zero 
commitments. Column 6 presents the NETs that companies plan to utilise, while column 7 shows emissions 
reductions considered by companies alongside NETs. The assessment of 42 corporate net zero commitments 
announced over 2019–20 shows that 26 referred to NETs in their net zero commitments, and 24 of these 
companies refer to NBS (Vivid Economics using American University, 2020). 
 
 
 
An investor guide to negative emission technologies and the importance of land use 
 
13 
Table 1 
Companies’ net zero targets and measures to achieve them 
Company 
Sector 
Market 
capitalisation 
Date of 
announcement 
Net zero 
year 
How to achieve it 
 
NETs 
Other measures 
Apple 
Technology 
US$1,821bn 
July 2020 
2030 
● Partnership with the non-
governmental organisation (NGO) 
Conservation International to 
restore mangrove trees 
● Recover materials of devices returned 
for recycling 
● Solar panel projects to power data 
centres 
● Carbon-free aluminium-smelting 
process 
● Energy efficiency 
P&G 
Consumer 
products 
US$325bn 
June 2020 
2030 
● Offset or eliminate 30 MtCO2 
● Partner with the NGO Conservation 
International and WWF 
● Afforestation 
● Restore peatlands, wetlands 
● Protecting mangroves 
● 100% renewable energy use 
● CCS 
Shell 
Oil & gas 
US$116bn 
April 2020 
2050 
● Afforestation 
● Reforestation 
● Energy efficiency 
● Using lower-carbon energy products 
● CCS 
Microsoft 
Technology 
US$1,540bn 
January 2020 
2030 
(carbon 
negative) 
● DACCS 
● BECCS 
● Soil carbon sequestration 
● Afforestation and reforestation 
● Eliminate dependency on diesel 
● Internal carbon tax 
● 100% supply of renewable energy 
● Includes Scope 3 emissions 
 
An investor guide to negative emission technologies and the importance of land use 
 
14 
Company 
Sector 
Market 
capitalisation 
Date of 
announcement 
Net zero 
year 
How to achieve it 
BA 
Airline 
US$3bn (IAG) January 2020 
2050 
● Offset carbon emissions: protection 
of rainforests and reforestation 
● DACCS: Partnering with start-up 
that has created an innovative 
absorbent material to remove CO2 
emissions directly from the 
atmosphere 
● Sustainable aviation fuel 
● Replacing older aircraft 
Repsol 
Oil & gas 
US$22bn 
December 2019 
2050 
● Reforestation 
● Other nature-based solutions (if 
goals cannot be reached via other 
means) 
● Scaling up renewable energy portfolio 
● CCS 
● Increasing production of biofuels and 
chemical products with low-carbon 
footprints 
● Producing green hydrogen 
● Linking management pay to emission 
reductions 
● Includes Scope 3 emissions 
Qantas 
Airlines 
US$11bn 
November 2019 
2050 
● Carbon-offsetting activities: 
protecting the Great Barrier Reef, 
reducing wildfires in Australia and 
securing 7,000 ha of Tasmanian 
forest 
● Develop sustainable aviation fuels 
● More fuel-efficient aircraft 
Amazon 
E-commerce 
US$1,586bn 
September 2019 
2040 
● Reforestation 
● Electric delivery vehicles 
● Use of renewable energy 
● Reduced packaging 
 
Source: 
Vivid Economics using information from company announcements and press releases (Qantas, 2019; UN PRI, 2019; British Airways, 2019; IKEA, 2019; Nestlé, 2019; 
Amazon, 2020a; Ambrose, 2020; Shell, 2020a; Total, 2020; Apple, 2020; Bass, 2020; Casey, 2020; Environment & Energy Leader, 2020; Evans, 2020). 
 
An investor guide to negative emission technologies and the importance of land use 
 
15 
4 Climate scenarios rely largely on BECCS, but it is 
unlikely to deliver projected negative emissions 
In almost all Paris-aligned climate scenarios, BECCS is the leading NET as it offers double gains through 
energy generation and CO2 sequestration. The climate scenarios utilise BECCS, afforestation, and other NBS 
for negative emissions but at different levels. Figure 5 presents annual CO2 emissions removed from the 
atmosphere by these three NETs in 2050 and 2100 for the selected climate scenarios. IPR FPS uses realistic 
assumptions about sustainable deployment of the NETs. BECCS accounts for only 0.8 GtCO2/year by 2050 but 
rises to 8 GtCO2/year by 2100, increasing its share from 40% to 80% of the total negative emissions. 
Regarding the IPCC scenarios, at one extreme, P1 and P2 act early in abatement and do not significantly 
overshoot their carbon budget. That is why, in these scenarios negative emissions do not reach 5 GtCO2/year 
by 2100. At the other extreme, IPCC P4 acts late to reduce emissions and relies only on BECCS to chip away 
at the emissions overshoot. Negative emissions by BECCS exceed 16 GtCO2/year by mid-century, 
corresponding to around half of today’s CO2 emissions from combustion of fossil fuels. IPCC P3 and the NGFS 
scenarios lie between these two extremes and utilise BECCS and NBS – i.e. afforestation and other NBS. 
These scenarios deploy BECCS and NBS at comparable levels by 2050, but negative emissions from BECCS 
surpass negative emissions from afforestation and other NBS by the end of the century. 
BECCS’ contribution to cumulative negative CO2 emissions is significant. In IPR FPS, cumulative BECCS is 
1.3 GtCO2 in 2050, growing to 54.5 GtCO2 in 2100, which is much lower compared with the IPCC scenarios. 
Cumulative BECCS until 2100 in the IPCC scenarios ranges from 151 GtCO2 in IPCC P2 – which has an 
incredibly ambitious decarbonisation pathway, halving emissions from 37 GtCO2 to 19 GtCO2 between 2020 
and 2030 – to 1,191 GtCO2 in IPCC P4. In IPCC P4, 724 Mha of land, corresponding to more than half of the 
world’s arable land – about 15% of all agricultural land – today, would need to be covered by bioenergy 
crops by mid-century.8   
 
 
8 Arable land is only about 30% of all agricultural land, while the rest is pasture land (FAO, 2020). 
 
An investor guide to negative emission technologies and the importance of land use 
 
16 
Figure 5 
The deployment of BECCS and NBS varies across the climate scenarios 
 
Note: 
Other NBS are NBS excluding afforestation. 
The dotted lines show the lower and upper ranges of annual CO2 removal potential of BECCS from Fuss et 
al. (2018). 
 
IEA B2D reports only CO2 emissions from fuel combustion for energy and heat generation, whereas the 
IPCC and NGFS scenarios report combustion and process CO2 emissions. 
                       The NGFS 2oC scenarios are also known as the Representative scenarios and the NGFS 1.5oC scenarios as 
the Alternative scenarios. 
IEA SDS does not include NETs. 
Source: 
Vivid Economics, using IPCC data (IAMC & IIASA, 2019), NGFS data (IIASA, 2020), IPR data (IPR, 2019b), 
and IEA data (‘Energy Technology Perspectives 2017’, no date) 
The reliance of the climate scenarios on BECCS is an issue as large-scale deployment of BECCS is likely to 
push the world to its planetary boundaries in terms of water and land availability, threatening biodiversity 
and fuelling social tensions. BECCS requires large areas of land and could lead to deforestation and 
conversion of protected areas to plantations. Biomass plantations could replace food production and lower 
food supply, thereby increasing food prices. While  plantations and BECCS power plants would increase 
water demand, water pollution from fertiliser use could affect supplies. Pressure on water and land could 
threaten the biodiversity depending on these resources. As regards land tenure, large bioenergy producers 
may outcompete small farmers, forcing them to sell their land to the former. Food price inflation and 
pressure on land tenure are likely to impact the most vulnerable groups that rely on agriculture for income 
and spend a large share of their income on food, raising concerns about a just transition to a low-carbon 
economy (FAO, 2010). These negative impacts require limiting the use of BECCS to a sustainable level.  
When deployed at a sustainable scale, BECCS is likely to fall short of delivering the negative emissions 
projected by most of the climate scenarios. Fuss et al. (2018) estimate that the CO2 removal potential of 
sustainable BECCS could range from 0.5 GtCO2/year to 5 GtCO2/year in 2050, as shown by the dashed lines in 
Figure 5 above. Reid et al. (2019) argue that the yearly CO2 removal potential of sustainable BECCS could 
decline in the second half of the century as competition for land intensifies due to population growth and 
the transferral of biomass production from land that has become arid to more fertile land, exacerbating the 
gap between the projections of the climate scenarios and the CO2 removal potential of sustainable BECCS. 
0
5
10
15
20
25
2050
2100
2050
2100
2050
2100
2050
2100
2050
2100
2050
2100
2050
2100
2050
2100
2050
2100
IPCC P1
IPCC P2
IPCC P3
IPCC P4
NGFS 1.5
Orderly
NGFS 1.5
Disorderly
NGFS 2C
Orderly
NGFS 2C
Disorderly
IEA B2D
Annual CO2 sequestration (GtCO2/yr)
Negative CO2 emissions by BECCS and NBS
Biomass with CCS
Other NBS
Afforestation
Lower end of the sustainable BECCS range in 2050
Upper end of the sustainable BECCS range in 2050
 
An investor guide to negative emission technologies and the importance of land use 
 
17 
5 A portfolio of NETs with immediate forestry action 
is required to limit global warming at 1.5–2oC  
BECCS needs to be combined with other NETs to deliver negative emissions projected by the climate 
scenarios because its CO2 removal potential is limited when deployed at a sustainable level. This section 
considers six NETs that are widely cited and have potential to deliver significant negative emissions by 2050. 
These are BECCS, DACCS, re/afforestation, soil carbon sequestration, biochar, and enhanced weathering.  
The literature has diverging views on NETs because their scalability is untested and some of them are still in 
their infancy. Appendix 3 – NETs synthesises findings from literature focusing on the criteria required for 
feasibility and scalability of these technologies: (i) functional mechanism; (ii) technological maturity; (iii) 
global CO2 removal potential; (iv) cost; (v) permanence of CO2 storage; (vi) constraints; and (vii) potential 
side effects. Appendix 4 – Feasibility of NETsprovides a comparison of the selected NETs based on the review 
criteria. Information on the review criteria is compiled from Fuss et al. (Fuss et al., 2018), which reviews and 
synthesises the recent literature on NETs and is widely recognised and cited, and is adjusted to reflect recent 
research where available (Griscom et al., 2017; EASAC, 2018, 2019; Fajardy et al., 2019; Reid, Ali and Field, 
2019). 
Deploying each NET at scale may cause significant negative impacts on the planet, biodiversity, and society. 
Figure 5 presents positive and negative side effects of the selected NETs discussed in the literature. In term 
of technical solutions, BECCS may have a number of negative side effects, such as high land and water 
demand putting pressure on biodiversity and food security, while the negative effects of DACCS are 
negligible. NBS also have negative side effects, such as water and chemical pollution from fertiliser use, and 
changes in albedo and cloud cover; however, sustainably managed NBS projects have positive side effects, 
such as improved soil quality and biodiversity, which are significantly greater in magnitude than the 
negatives. Most of these positive benefits are externalities, and the development of financial instruments is 
required in order to monetise these externalities and compensate private parties for action taken which 
leads to substantial social benefit. Appendix 3 – NETs provides more detail on the positive and negative side 
effects of the selected NETs. 
 
An investor guide to negative emission technologies and the importance of land use 
 
18 
Figure 6 
Each NET has its own characteristics in terms of technological maturity, side effects, constraints, and future 
cost and carbon removal potential trends 
 
Note: 
N2O, nitrous oxide; CH4, methane. 
Source: 
Vivid Economics, based on Minx et al. (2018) 
 
An investor guide to negative emission technologies and the importance of land use 
 
19 
High uncertainty associated with costs and CO2 removal potential exacerbates risks and other uncertainties 
around the NETs. Figure 7 presents the wide ranges for costs and CO2 removal potential of the selected NETs 
(Fuss et al., 2018). These are largely due to most of the NETs not yet being tested at scale. More research 
and demonstration projects are needed to understand the constraints and side effects associated with these 
technologies. Moreover, as stated in Geden and Schenuit (2020), adoption of the technologies across the 
globe may depend on criteria other than costs, CO2 removal potential and side effects, such as geographic 
conditions (particularly for storage) and local politics, thereby adding to uncertainty. 
Figure 7 
Afforestation and reforestation, and soil carbon sequestration have the lowest costs among the NETs 
 
Source: 
Vivid Economics, based on Fuss et al. (2018)  
A portfolio of NETs deployed at a sustainable scale could help to meet net zero targets. As shown in Figure 6 
and Figure 7, all NETs have considerable uncertainties around their CO2 removal potential and costs, and 
deploying them at large scale may cause significant negative impacts on biodiversity and society. Deploying a 
portfolio of multiple NETs at a sustainable scale would provide a hedge and limit exposure to the 
uncertainties and negative impacts associated with a large-scale application of each NET. 
Investors can reap gains from NBS in the short term, especially by avoiding emissions from deforestation 
while investing in sequestering emissions from re/afforestation in the short-term. Afforestation and 
reforestation are the least costly NETs, as shown in Figure 6. The approach is already widely applied, and it 
can be immediately extended to larger areas of land. Deforestation continues to release significant amounts 
of CO2 into the atmosphere. From 2011 to 2015 net forest conversion added 2.9 GtCO2 per year to the 
atmosphere(Federici et al., 2015). Reversing deforestation now would stop these emissions, and retained 
forest would serve as a carbon sink and continue to sequester CO2 from the atmosphere. Re/afforestation 
need to start now because forests take time to grow and reach their CO2 removal potential. As forests get 
saturated and their CO2 removal potential decreases over time, they could be harvested and replanted to 
sequester additional CO2. Harvested material could be used in construction or as fuel for BECCS to store CO2 
permanently. Investing in forest-related NBS would also decrease overshoot emissions and exposure to risky 
NETs in the long term. 
In the long term, technology-focused NETs, such as DACCS, could be economically viable alternatives to 
BECCS by mid-century as their costs are falling – if investors and corporates channel funds towards further 
research and deployment (Fuss et al., 2018; Realmonte et al., 2019).9 However, more research and 
 
9 We do not discuss DACCS in detail in this report but will be producing a separate study. 
 
An investor guide to negative emission technologies and the importance of land use 
 
20 
development and pilot projects, alongside financial incentives, are needed to reduce costs of these 
technologies further and assess their side effects and scalability. 
 
 
 
An investor guide to negative emission technologies and the importance of land use 
 
21 
6 Companies and investors have already started to 
invest in forest-related NBS projects 
Companies have already started to channel their resources towards forest-related NBS projects. As shown in 
Table 1, while some companies plan to utilise technical solutions, such as Microsoft considering BECCS and 
DACCS (Smith, 2020) and British Airways’ parent IAG exploring DACCS (Otley, 2020), more companies, such 
as O&G, technology and retail majores, are likely to invest in NBS to offset their CO2 emissions – see Figure 8. 
Shell forecasts that roughly a quarter of emissions reductions to reach net zero will come from natural sinks 
and has started to invest in forest-related projects, such as the planting of 5 million trees in the Netherlands 
and regenerating an 800 ha forest in Australia (Shell, 2019, 2020b). BP is currently running seven offset 
programmes, one of which is focused on forestry, protecting 40,000 ha in Zambia. Total is committed to 
investing US$100 million per year in forest protection (IOM3, 2019; BP, 2020). Technology companies are 
also pursuing similar projects. Apple is protecting an 11,000 ha mangrove forest in Colombia, and Microsoft 
is partnering with a start-up that uses satellite imaging to identify the appropriate forest projects (Peters, 
2019; Catanoso, 2020). Microsoft will finance the identified projects by paying US$15/tCO2 for CO2 stored – 
higher than the global average of $10/tCO2 (Catanoso, 2020). Amazon has launched the Right Now Climate 
Fund, investing US$100 million in NBS. The first project of $10 million was announced in April 2020, to 
restore and conserve 1.6 Mha forest in the US, removing 18 million MtCO2 from the atmosphere (Amazon, 
2020b). EasyJet claims to have offset all of its emissions from fossil fuel use in 2019, investing more than 
US$30 million in afforestation and reforestation projects (Ecosystem Marketplace, 2019a). 
Figure 8 
Companies have already started to channel their resources to forest-related NBS projects 
 
Source: 
Vivid Economics 
The flurry of corporate climate action has boosted the voluntary offset market, and the upward trend is 
expected to continue. The voluntary offset market represents 65% of the total number of annual carbon 
credits issued in 2019 – an almost fourfold increase from 17% in 2015 – and outnumbers the mandatory 
offset market (World Bank, 2020). From 2017 to 2018, the voluntary offset market doubled in volume from 
approximately 50 million to 100 million offsets, and in value from US$150 million to $300 million (Gross, 
 
An investor guide to negative emission technologies and the importance of land use 
 
22 
Hook and Powley, 2019b). In 2019, Verra, a carbon credit standard, issued around 100 million voluntary 
carbon credits, over twice the amount issued previously in a single year (Verra, 2020b). This upward trend is 
expected to continue. A 2020 analysis of 38 large global companies, including major corporations such as 
Shell, Bosch and EasyJet, reported that these companies had pledged to offset around 90 MtCO2e per year, 
50% higher than the total volume traded in the market in 2016 (EcoSecurities, 2020). By 2050, the value of 
the global voluntary offset market could reach US$200 billion, increasing by around a quarter every year 
(Watson, 2020). 
There is a shift to NBS within the offset market as most corporate net zero targets rely on NBS projects to 
offset their emissions. From 2017 to 2018, the value of forestry and land-use-related credits traded in the 
voluntary offset market tripled to US$172 million, increasing the share of forestry and land-use-related 
offsets in the total voluntary offset market from 52% to 64% (Ecosystem Marketplace, 2019b). In the wider 
offset market, forestry-related projects accounted for 42% of the all credits issued over the past five years 
(‘State and Trends of Carbon Pricing 2020’, 2020).10 As forestry projects facilitate the growth of the offset 
market, this market could provide an enabling platform encouraging the scaling of NBS (Henderson et al., 
2020).  
 
10 The wider offset market encompasses three types of market: international; independent; and regional, national and subnational mechanisms. 
 
An investor guide to negative emission technologies and the importance of land use 
 
23 
7 Investors can act now to unlock investment 
opportunities 
NETs are the next investment frontier and offer trillion dollar upside opportunities for investors.11 Within 
NETs, forest-related NBS could generate US$800 billion in annual revenues by 2050. From today’s vantage 
point, emerging NBS investments are worth US$1.2 trillion in NPV terms (see Box 1), surpassing the current 
market capitalisation of the oil & gas majors.12  Hence an entire new industry would emerge that values 
carbon stored in vegetation and soil, unlocking new business models and investment opportunities for 
avoided deforestation, reforestation and afforestation (hereinafter re/afforestation), and land restoration. 
Thanks to its low cost, natural forest restoration looks likely to emerge as the earliest feasible investment 
opportunity. Technical solutions, such as DACCS and BECCS, could generate an additional annual revenue of 
US$625 billion by 2050.13  
Box 1 
The size of the investor opportunity in NBS 
To estimate the feasible size of the investor opportunity in NBS we created a very simple cash flow model 
to represent the global NBS market. First, we estimated the possible revenue growth of the market over 
time by using the IPR Forecast Policy Scenario’s forward assessment of the number of hectares of 
reforestation globally, the amount of carbon sequestered, the possible carbon price they would secure, 
and small ancillary revenues from sustainable forest management. Revenues associated with NBS are 
driven strongly by the expected carbon price (see graph). 
In order to generate estimates of returns (or cashflows), we also need to estimate costs – land, capital, 
and operational costs. These cashflows then need to be discounted to generate an estimate of the 
possible NPV of these investments (roughly equivalent to market capitalisation). These will vary 
significantly by location and need estimating on that basis – global high level averages would be 
misleading for any single project but can provide an indicative number for investors. 
 
11 Also known as carbon dioxide removal (CDR). NETs are technical solutions and Nature Based Solutions (NBS) that sequester carbon from the 
atmosphere. 
12 As of June 2020. Oil & gas majors include BP, Chevron, China National Offshore Oil, ConoccoPhilips, Enterprise Product Partners, EOG Resources, 
ExxonMobil, Kinder Morgan, Occidental Petroleum, Petrobas, PetroChina Company, Santos, Schlumberger, Sinopec, Suncor Energy, and Total. 
13 The annual revenue is estimated for annual CO2 sequestration of 5 GtCO2/year at a cost of US$125 per tCO2 and considers only revenue from 
sequestered CO2 emissions. 
 
An investor guide to negative emission technologies and the importance of land use 
 
24 
We used a 9% discount rate, which is consistent with discount rates used in the past for the valuation of 
forest projects,14 and estimated an indicative set of costs based on existing sources for reforestation 
projects.15 Based on this analysis, we estimate a possible NPV of NBS investments of US$1.2 trillion, with 
an internal rate of return of 18%. These NPV calculations are very rough, and subject to a number of 
uncertainties, especially around the price of land, the actual price of carbon secured, and the appropriate 
discount rate given the possible risk levels associated with these investments in different markets. 
Nevertheless, they provide an early indication to investors of the possible scale of asset value represented 
by the NBS opportunity.  
 
Given the advantages of forestry over other NETs, investors can prioritise NBS in the short term and monitor 
developments regarding technical solutions, such as DACCS, for investment opportunities in longer term. 
Section 5 demonstrated that re/afforestation are the least costly among the NETs. The approach, already 
widely applied, could be immediately extended to larger areas of land. DACCS and other NETs could become 
economically viable alternatives in the longer term, but, as discussed, there are significant uncertainties and 
risks around their costs and CO2 removal potential. More research and demonstration projects are needed to 
lower costs and test the large-scale deployment of these technologies.  
Figure 9 
In the nearterm, NBS and particularly forestry provide investment opportunities while focusing on RD&D 
for other NETs and deploy a feasible amount of BECCS in the long run 
 
Source: 
Vivid Economics 
The credibility of re/afforestation projects depends on strong regulation to end deforestation. To mitigate 
climate change, the total forest-covered area needs to increase significantly over the coming years. If 
re/afforestation projects fail to turn out a, at least regionally, net-gain in forestry cover, their benefits may 
be questioned, undermining forestry business models and threatening credibility carbon credits for forestry 
projects. As mentioned below, there are ways of addressing the credibility issue, such as focusing on 
jurisdictional programmes and promoting a global standard fror NBS, including standards such as the 
Architecture for REDD+ Transactions’ (ART) The REDD+ Environmental Excellence Standard (TREES), but 
ending deforestation remains a key factor for credibility. 
To unlock investment opportunities, investors need to: 
● Pressure companies to commit to climate action. Various investor initiatives encourage large 
companies to reduce emissions and strengthen climate-related financial disclosures. Urging 
companies to commit to climate action would decrease investor exposure to carbon-intensive 
 
14 See Bullard, S. H. and Straka (2011); and Ferguson (2018). 
15 For example Summers, D., Bryan, B., Martin, N. and Hobbs (2015); and Zorrilla-Miras, P., Marcos, C., Mulligan, M., Giordano, R., Graveline, N., 
Máñez-Costa, M., Pengal, P., van der Keur, P., Altamirano, M., Matthews, J. and Lopez-Gunn (2018). 
 
An investor guide to negative emission technologies and the importance of land use 
 
25 
markets. It would also increase the demand for NBS and other NETs projects, facilitating these 
technologies and supporting their markets, as many companies are likely to rely on NBS and other 
NETs to offset their emissions. As discussed in Section 3, since January 2020, 379 companies have 
committed to science-based climate action and joined the SBTi list, increasing the number of 
companies that are taking science-based climate action to 1009 as of October 2020 (Science Based 
Targets, 2020), and companies have already started to channel their resources towards forest-
related NBS projects, creating a new market for forestry. Last but not least, investors need to 
pressure companies to commit to using deforestation-free supply chains. 
● Stop investing in companies with deforestation in their supply chain. Deforestation is a major 
contributor to global warming. From 2011 to 2015 net forest conversion added 2.9 GtCO2 per year to 
the atmosphere (Federici et al., 2015). Companies with deforestation in their supply chain expose 
investors to significant financial risk in terms of potential regulatory action, loss of market access, loss 
of customers in the short term, and failing to adapt to the transition to a low-carbon economy in the 
longer term (Ceres, 2020). As shown in Figure 10, risks associated with legal action, market access, 
and consumer pressure could decrease a company’s valuation by around 15%. 
Figure 10 Deforestation across a company’s supply chain jeopardises its valuation 
 
Note: 
Case studies from the Chain Reaction Research and Ceres provided information on maximum threshold 
for consumer pressure, market access and legal risks as a share of current valuation. 
Source: 
IPR (2019a) 
● Move early in the rapidly growing NBS market. Investors should develop innovative business models, 
financing mechanisms (as listed below) and expertise to position themselves in an emerging market 
so they can benefit from a potential large green upside. A way to channel private finance to NBS 
projects could be through large agricultural and forestry companies, specialist funds that focus on 
NBS projects, and local agricultural and forestry lenders. Some emissions-heavy companies can also 
provide exposure to forestry projects as they plan to invest in these to offset their emissions. 
● Support NBS market and institutional development by engaging with policymakers. Investors can 
shape the design of the expanding NBS market to suit the needs of private financing. In the short 
term, this could involve developing new financial models with the government through concessional 
finance, re-risking activities that transfer risk from investors to government or development banks, 
and providing technical assistance. Investors could also promote the adoption of carbon pricing as it 
would provide NBS projects with a sustained return and a price signal for future projects.  
 
An investor guide to negative emission technologies and the importance of land use 
 
26 
● Promote a global standard for NBS projects. The current offset market is fragmented due to the 
variety of available standards. A lack of consensus about accounting of sequestered emissions causes 
complexity, incurs expenses and creates risks for investors, thus discouraging investment in forest-
based carbon sequestration projects (Wise et al., 2019). A global standard for NBS projects, such as 
the Architecture for REDD+ Transactions (ART) and The REDD+ Environmental Excellence Standard 
(TREES), and a carbon credit ESG rating could align existing standards and ensure additionality and 
permanence of CO2 savings while avoiding double counting and leakage. It could therefore help to 
achieve a global agreement on accounting standards, addressing a major failure that has hindered 
progress of REDD+ and re/afforestation (Carton et al., 2020). It could also help to create a global 
market for NBS projects and allow them to benefit from a large pool of global investors, decreasing 
financing costs and improving liquidity. 
● Promote sustainability standards for BECCS. A sustainability standard could ensure that low-carbon 
agricultural and sustainable land-use practices are deployed in biomass production that limit 
emissions from supply chains and land-use change. It would also ensure that land and water 
resources are deployed at a sustainable level, thus protecting biodiversity. This would address 
stakeholder concerns and possible opposition to BECCS projects and hence accelerate the scale-up of 
finance dedicated to these. 
● Monitor developments in the DACCS space. DACCS may emerge as the key NET in the medium term. 
The technology has no known negative side effects and does not put pressure on land and water 
resources, ecosystems, or biodiversity. However, due to the low CO2 concentration in the 
atmosphere its energy consumption is too high, inflating its costs. More research and demonstration 
projects may address these challenges, making it a viable option for removing CO2 emissions from 
the atmosphere. 
New financing mechanisms are emerging that would allow private investors to channel finance towards 
forest-related NBS projects. As carbon markets extend their geographical coverage and incorporate NBS, 
more revenue streams will be unlocked from forest-related projects. Consequently, market-based 
mechanisms will be developed to manage these revenue streams, and the forest finance market will deepen 
in terms of volume and the number of players. These developments are expected to facilitate much-needed 
private investment in forest finance. Examples for emerging financing mechanisms are: 
● Distressed asset, where investors purchase and restore deforested or degraded public and private 
land to benefit from the carbon stock it produces, with the potential to sell the land on to other 
investors or to the government for conservation purposes. Restoration can be implemented by a 
land management company contracted by the investor. 
● Stewardship model, where an investor leases deforested or degraded land without an ownership 
change, and the leaseholder receives the benefits flowing from the carbon stock associated with 
restorative management before returning it to the previous owner. Restoration can be implemented 
by a land management company contracted by the investor. 
● Carbon farming agreements, where an investor supports the ‘farming’ of carbon through forest 
growth by providing the land manager with financing for the initial land purchase and planting costs. 
In return, the investor receives payments tied to the carbon stock increases. Such a model can be 
used to finance large land holders or cooperatives of smallholders, reducing the risk to those 
cooperatives while simultaneously reducing the administrative burden on investors. 
● Sustainable farming agreements, where an investor supports traditional crop farming practices that 
reduce emissions or sequester carbon (e.g. in soils) by financing farmers’ land or capital cost.  
Investors receive payments when the carbon-reduction certificates are created and sold on the 
market. This too can be used to finance large farmers or cooperatives of small farmers. 
 
An investor guide to negative emission technologies and the importance of land use 
 
27 
● Green bonds, where investors can purchase securitised forest sequestration and carbon-reduction 
projects. This can allow investors to take stakes in projects already developed by others, and they can 
be used to aggregate projects that are of insufficient scale for investors, or that are developed by a 
government or NGO.  
● Forest insurance provision, a disaster insurance against carbon losses from extreme weather, 
disease, or forest fires, which can improve carbon credit ratings and allow for risk sharing. This 
financing mechanism is currently provided predominantly through public funds, but presents an 
increasingly viable business for private insurers as the market grows. 
● Carbon off-taker guarantees, financial instruments guarantee a future price for carbon credits, 
reducing carbon price volatility and risk for developers. Like insurance, they allow for risk sharing, 
and can be underwritten by public or private financial institutions. 
 
An investor guide to negative emission technologies and the importance of land use 
 
28 
Appendix 1 – Corporate net zero announcements 
Table 2 
Companies’ net zero targets and measures to achieve them  
Company 
Sector 
Market 
capitalisation 
Date of 
announcement 
Net zero 
year 
How to achieve it 
 
NETs 
Other measures 
BCG 
Business 
services 
US$8.5bn 
(revenue) 
September 2020 
2030 
● 
Nature-based and engineered solutions at 
an annual average of $80 per tonne by 
2030 
● 
Renewable energy 
● 
Energy efficiency 
Total 
Oil & gas 
US$98bn 
May 2020 
2050 
No evidence 
● 
Reducing carbon intensity of products 
BP 
Oil & gas 
US$73bn 
February 2020 
2050 
● 
Nature-based solutions: protecting, 
restoring and creating natural sinks, such 
as peatland and forests 
● 
Reducing carbon intensity of products 
● 
Methane measurements 
● 
Reducing methane intensity 
Nestlé 
Consumer 
products 
US$310bn 
September 2019 
2050 
● 
Reforestation 
● 
Soil carbon sequestration: collaborate with 
farmers to restore land 
● 
Produce more environmentally friendly 
products 
● 
Use 100% renewable electricity 
Ikea 
Consumer 
products 
US$19.5bn 
September 2019 
2030 
● 
Afforestation 
● 
Reforestation 
● 
Explore ways to remove CO2 and store it in 
forests, agriculture and products 
● 
Improve energy efficiency 
● 
100% renewable energy use 
● 
More sustainable materials 
Thyssen-
Krupp 
Steel 
US$7bn 
July 2019 
2050 
No evidence 
● 
Capturing emissions from steel mills and 
converting them into chemicals 
● 
Replacing coal with hydrogen 
Heidelberg 
Cement 
Cement 
US$13bn 
May 2019 
2050 
● 
CCS: develop new technologies for CO2 
sequestration in the cement-making 
process 
● 
Improve energy efficiency 
● 
Increase use of alternative fuels and raw 
materials 
Source: 
Vivid Economics, using (Nestlé, 2019; Qantas, 2019; UN PRI, 2019; British Airways, 2019; IKEA, 2019; Amazon, 2020a; Ambrose, 2020; Shell, 2020a; Total, 2020; Apple, 
2020; Bass, 2020; BCG, 2020; Casey, 2020; Environment & Energy Leader, 2020; Evans, 2020) 
 
An investor guide to negative emission technologies and the importance of land use 
 
29 
Appendix 2 – Climate scenarios 
Climate scenarios rely on different assumptions and architecture, and they can be compared for investor 
purposes when assessing a range of metrics. The PRI-commissioned paper Pathways to Net Zero: Scenario 
Architecture for strategic resilience testing and planning sets out the key metrics that determine climate 
scenario characteristics. Table 3 presents a subset of these metrics. Scenario characteristics are crucial for 
understanding the ambitions and pathways of each climate scenario, as well as the financial impact, and can 
be used by investors for portfolio construction.  
Table 3 
Metrics and descriptions used to compare climate pathway scenarios 
Metrics 
Description 
Target temperature (oC) 
This describes the temperature above pre-industrial levels with which 
the scenario is consistent. In most cases this is a constraint reflected in 
the carbon budget and therefore the pathway. 
Probability (%) 
This is the probability of achieving a particular temperature outcome. It 
is a critical datapoint, as the uncertainties within climate science lead to 
wide ranges of outcomes that can be presented only in probabilistic 
ways. 
Carbon budget over  
2018–2100 (GtCO2) 
This is the remaining amount of carbon that can be emitted to fulfil a 
specific temperature and probability combination.  
Emission peak year 
The year in which CO2 emissions peak. 
Carbon budget is reached 
(year) 
The year when the carbon budget modelled is first exceeded starting 
from 2018. 
Temperature return year 
The year when the temperature again falls to, for example, 1.5°. The 
scenario is unlikely to be at net zero at this point; it will most likely be 
net negative. 
Net zero year 
The year in which the scenario has zero net emissions, which means that 
any residual direct emissions are offset by Carbon Dioxide Removal 
(CDR) (e.g. CCS, NETS including BECCS).  
Overshoot at the net zero year 
(GtCO2) 
The amount of emissions in excess of the carbon budget (potentially 
driving a temperature overshoot) as at the net zero year.   
Emissions reduction in the 
modelled end year relative to 
2018 (%) 
This is the percentage reduction in emissions highlighted in the scenario 
at its end year measured against 2018. 
Source: 
Fulton (2020) 
Looking at a number of these metrics highlights the differences in scenario architecture, and particularly the 
role that NETs play in climate scenarios. Table 4 shows the assessment of each of the selected climate 
scenarios against the metrics presented in Table 3, and helps investors to compare the different scenario 
pathways, observe the role of NETs within each, and understand the risks and opportunities to inform 
business and portfolio planning.
 
An investor guide to negative emission technologies and the importance of land use 
 
30 
Table 4 
Pathway scenario comparison 
Organisation 
IPCC 
IEA 
NGFS 
IPR 
Scenario/Metric 
P1 
P2 
P3 
P4 
SDS 
ETP B2Ds 
Orderly 
Disorderly Orderly 
Disorderly 
FPS 
Target 
temperature 
(oC) 
1.5 
1.5 
1.5 
1.5 
1.8 
1.75 
2 
2 
1.5 
1.5 
Below 2 
Probability (%) 
66 
66 
66 
66 
66 
50 
66 
66 
66 
66 
- 
Carbon budget 
over 2018–
2100 (GtCO2) 
420 
420 
420 
420 
8801 
7202 
1,0003 
1,0003 
4003 
4003 
- 
Emissions peak 
(year) 
2020 
2020 
2020 
2020 
2025 
2025 
2020 
2020 
2020 
2020 
2025 
Carbon budget 
is reached 
(year) 
2033 
2033 
2030 
2028 
No 
overshoot 
No 
overshoot 
No 
overshoot 
No 
overshoot 
2028 
2030 
- 
Temperature 
return (year) 
2059 
2053 
2074 
2084 
- 
- 
- 
- 
2076 
2053 
- 
Net zero year 
2060 
2055 
2058 
2051 
2070 
2060 
2064 
2050 
2050 
2039 
- 
Overshoot at 
the net zero 
year (GtCO2) 
144 
145 
271 
483 
No 
overshoot 
No 
overshoot 
No 
overshoot 
No 
overshoot 
279 
55 
- 
Emissions 
reduction in the 
modelled end 
year relative to 
2018 (%) 
109 
112 
132 
155 
53 
100 
121 
111 
137 
114 
98 
Cumulative CCS 
until 2100 
(GtCO2) 
0 
348 
687 
1,218 
- 
225 (until 
2060) 
698 
461 
834 
547 
- 
of which BECCS 
until 2100 
(GtCO2) 
0 
151 
414 
1,191 
 
72 (until 
2060) 
428 
343 
632 
417 
257 
 
An investor guide to negative emission technologies and the importance of land use 
 
31 
Organisation 
IPCC 
IEA 
NGFS 
IPR 
Land area of 
bioenergy crops 
in 2050 (Mha) 
22 
93 
283 
724 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Land area of 
bioenergy crops 
in 2100 (Mha) 
158 
154 
750 
802 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
AFOLU CO2 
emissions in 
2100 (GtCO2) 
-4,343 -3,614 -4,162 -1,201 
- 
- 
-4,182 
-1,078 
-5,232 
-966 
-1,663 
Change in 
AFOLU CO2 
emissions in 
2100 relative to 
2010 (%) 
-181 
-178 
-158 
-129 
- 
- 
-179 
-120 
-198 
-117 
-150 
AFOLU N2O 
emissions in 
2100 (kt 
N2O/yr) 
6,116 
4,243 
4,007 
8,915 
- 
- 
7,099 
6,013 
7,286 
5,942 
3,117 (in 
MtCO2/yr) 
Change in 
AFOLU N2O 
emissions in 
2100 relative to 
2010 (%) 
-5 
-37 
-38 
-14 
- 
- 
-12 
-25 
-10 
-26 
8 
AFOLU CH4 
emissions in 
2100 (Mt 
CH4/yr) 
78 
41 
69 
110 
- 
- 
135 
134 
135 
132 
3,993 (in 
MtCO2/yr) 
Change in 
AFOLU CH4 
emissions in 
2100 relative to 
2010 (%) 
-48 
-77 
-54 
-36 
- 
- 
-26 
-26 
-26 
-27 
-27 
 
An investor guide to negative emission technologies and the importance of land use 
 
32 
Note: 
1 From Dalman (2020), and until 2070. 2 The 2015–2100 carbon budget (‘Energy Technology Perspectives 2017’, no date). 3 The 2011–2100 carbon budget (NGFS, 
2020). AFOLU, agriculture, forestry and other land use.  
Source: 
Vivid Economics, using IPCCS, NGFS, and IEA 
 
An investor guide to negative emission technologies and the importance of land use 
 
33 
Appendix 3 – NETs 
NETs, also known as CDR), are technologies that can remove CO2 emissions from the atmosphere. NETs are 
an essential element of the climate scenarios analysed in this report and are used for two reasons: 
● to balance CO2 emissions from hard-to-abate sectors, such as aviation and industry, and reach net 
zero emissions; and 
● to reduce the level of CO2 emissions in the atmosphere. This may be needed if historical CO2 
emissions in the atmosphere overshoot the carbon budget. 
NETs can be classified under the two general categories : technical solutions; and nature-based solutions 
(NBS). The focus is on the technologies that are widely studied and that have high potential to deliver 
feasible and sustainable solutions at scale. These are BECCS, DACCS, afforestation and reforestation, soil 
carbon sequestration, biochar, and enhanced weathering. Figure 11 presents the selected NETs and their 
functional mechanisms. 
Figure 11 NETs can be classified under technical solutions and nature-based solutions 
 
Source: 
Vivid Economics, based on Fuss et al. (2018) and Minx et al. (2018) 
 
An investor guide to negative emission technologies and the importance of land use 
 
34 
Technical solutions linked with storage of CO2 
Technical solutions rely on the permanent underground storage of CO2 removed from the atmosphere. The 
two widely cited technical solutions are: (i) BECCS; and (ii) DACCS. 
(i) BECCS 
BECCS combines bioenergy with CCS. Bioenergy is a form of renewable energy that is derived from organic 
materials known as biomass, which can be used to produce transportation fuels, heat, electricity, and 
products. Forests or energy crops, such as fast-growing perennial grasses and short-rotation coppicing, can 
be considered as biomass. The major BECCS technologies are mature, but deployment has been slow. In 
2019 there were only five operating facilities actively using BECCS, capturing 1.5 million MtCO2 per year 
(Consoli, 2019). Europe’s first two BECCS pilots are under construction in the UK (Drax Group, 2020).  
BECCS plays a major role in most climate scenarios as it offers double gains. Biomass replaces fossil fuels as a 
source of thermal energy and removes CO2 from the atmosphere. Depending on the use as biofuel or 
bioelectricity, CO2 released during fuel conversion or combustion is captured by CCS and stored 
underground, resulting in negative emissions.  
However, BECCS may not be able to deliver the negative emissions projected by the climate scenarios as 
concerns about its CO2 balance and sustainability limit its CO2 removal potential. The costs and CO2 removal 
potential of BECCS are widely studied in the literature, and the consensus is on the lower end of the 
estimated range. Fuss et al. (2018) report that the CO2 removal potential of sustainable BECCS would range 
from 0.5 GtCO2/year to 5 GtCO2/year. Achieving the higher end of the range would require a globally 
coordinated effort for land governance that accounts for local concerns. This could prove challenging given 
the low levels of global coordination today. The need for greater global coordination and intensive land 
management to ensure sustainability is likely to increase costs to US$100–$200/tCO2. 
The CO2 balance of BECCS depends on the use of bioenergy and emissions from the biomass supply chain 
and land use change. Bioenergy can be used to generate electricity or produce biofuels. At the current 
efficiency and CO2 capture rates, bioelectricity has higher CO2 reduction potential than biofuels. However, 
when the limited availability of sustainable biomass is considered, aviation biofuels may need to be 
prioritised over bioelectricity as aviation has no alternatives to fossil fuel, thus reducing the CO2 removal 
potential of BECCS (The Committee on Climate Change, 2011, 2018). The biomass supply chain produces 
additional CO2 emissions as it includes steps that consume energy such as production, harvesting, 
processing, and transportation of biomass. Conversion of land for biomass production may cause direct and 
indirect emissions. Direct Land-Use Change (LUC) emissions result from the decrease in the total carbon 
stock of the converted land, whereas indirect LUC emissions are due to changes in land use elsewhere as the 
previous activity on the converted land is relocated. When all these emissions and the lower CO2 capture 
rate of biofuels are considered, the CO2 balance of BECCS may end up being carbon-positive. 
Delivering BECCS projected by the climate models is likely to push the world to its planetary boundaries in 
terms of water and land availability, threatening biodiversity and socially sensitive issues, such as food supply 
and land tenure. Requiring large areas of arable land, bioenergy could replace food production and reduce 
food supply, increasing food prices locally and globally. As regards land tenure, large bioenergy producers 
would reach economies of scale and are likely to outcompete small farmers, forcing the latter to sell their 
land to large landowners, such as agriculture companies. Food price inflation and reduced land tenure are 
likely to impact the most vulnerable groups that rely on agriculture for income and spend a large share of 
their income on food, raising concerns about a just transition to a low-carbon economy (FAO, 2010). 
Moreover, biomass production could put pressure on water resources as water used for crops, pollution 
from fertilisers, and water use in BECCS power plant may threaten supplies. 
Agricultural intensification and cultivation of marginal land may relieve the pressure on land. The adoption of 
modern agriculture practices and expansion of irrigation infrastructure could enhance agricultural 
 
An investor guide to negative emission technologies and the importance of land use 
 
35 
productivity, allowing the same amount of food to be produced on a smaller area of arable land. However, 
agricultural intensification also increases the use of fertilisers, pesticides and other chemicals, resulting in 
rising biochemical flows and greater biodiversity loss. Marginal land, instead of arable land, could be 
converted to produce biomass. However, it is hard to predict the area of available marginal land and its 
biomass productivity as it varies in quality and type. According to Turner et al. (2018), the area of land that is 
suitable for sustainable BECCS (i.e. devoid of forest, not used for food production, and in close proximity to 
geological CO2 storage sites) corresponds to only 10% of the land utilised for BECCS in the climate scenarios 
that target a temperature rise of less than 2oC.16 
Bioenergy is likely to have other unintended side effects, such as changes in albedo, evapotranspiration, and 
cloud cover. Changes in albedo result from activities that alter the properties of land surfaces and hence the 
reflection of solar radiation. The production of biomass alters land properties and can have a positive or 
negative effect on albedo depending on the geographic location and the permanency of the land-use 
change. For example, if dead trees are harvested, this increases snow exposure and can result in a cooling 
effect (Bernier and Bright, 2017). If biomass is cultivated at higher latitudes, replacing snow cover, there will 
be a warming effect and this offsets climate mitigation (Fuss et al., 2018). A study of 11 land-use change 
scenarios for the cultivation of biomass found two scenarios with a warming effect and nine with a cooling 
effect (Caiazzo et al., 2014). 
(ii) DACCS 
Direct air capture of CO2 combined with CCS captures CO2 from ambient air by chemical processes and then 
stores it underground. The technologies for DACCS already exist and are in the deployment and commercial 
development stage. The first commercial DACCS plants are operational in Switzerland, Italy, Iceland, the USA, 
and Canada. However, they use the captured CO2 for industrial processes, instead of storing it underground, 
due to commercial viability. 
Forecasts in the literature suggest that, by 2050, costs could fall to as low as US$100–$300/tCO2 removed. 
As supply chains are established and infrastructure issues resolved, the costs of this technology are expected 
to decrease gradually from today’s US$600–$1,000/tCO2. Additional research and upscaling deployment 
could reduce costs even further (Fuss et al. ,2018).  
The CO2 removal potential of DACCS would be limited to 0.5–5 GtCO2/year by 2050. However, if costs 
decline as expected, energy needs are met by renewables, and no unexpected negative impacts emerge, the 
technology’s CO2 removal potential could increase to 30 GtCO2/year by the end of the century (Realmonte et 
al., 2019). 
The CO2 removal potential of DACCs is constrained by its high energy demand, large facility size, and 
availability of geological CO2 storage. Low concentrations of CO2 in the ambient atmosphere mean that large 
facilities with high energy demand are needed to capture CO2. According to Realmonte et al. (2019), 
removing 30 GtCO2/year by DACCS would require around 50 EJ/year of electricity and 250 EJ/year of heat, 
corresponding to more than half of today’s global total primary energy supply. Large facilities would have 
large material and labour needs for construction and need to be located far from residential centres. This is 
also reflected in the high cost of the approach relative to other methods that deploy CCS, such as BECCS, 
which capture CO2 from flue gases with considerable higher CO2 concentration. Depending on the process 
utilised, water demand could be also substantial and lead to water stress in areas with limited supplies. As 
the process decreases CO2 concentration in the ambient air, it may have negative impacts on local 
vegetation. 
 
16 Turner et al. (2018) explore land-use transformations described in the IPCC AR5, evaluating a subset of scenarios from multiple models that report 
land use, such as GCAM 3.0, IMAGE 2.4, and REMIND 1.5. 
 
An investor guide to negative emission technologies and the importance of land use 
 
36 
Nature-based solutions 
NBS rely on natural processes to increase CO2 stored in the biosphere. The four widely studied natural 
solutions are: (i) re/afforestation; (ii) land management to increase and fix carbon in soils; (iii) biochar; and 
(iv) enhanced weathering. 
(iii) Reforestation and afforestation 
Re/afforestation capture CO2 through photosynthesis and store it within plant biomass. Afforestation refers 
to establishing forest cover on land devoid of any trees, while reforestation involves the expansion of forest 
in recently deforested areas. The approaches are already widely applied and can be immediately extended to 
larger areas of land.  
Re/afforestation require large land areas, raising concerns about land competition. Land competition could 
negatively impact vulnerable groups through rising food prices since less land would be available for food 
production, and through changes in land tenure since they tend to rely on agriculture for their income. 
Moreover, other NETs, such as BECCS, will also require land for biomass plantations, further increasing 
competition for land.  
Planting trees is a low-cost measure, but land competition constrains the global CO2 removal potential of 
re/afforestation. Keeping land competition in mind, Fuss et al. (2018) conclude that around 500 Mha of land 
that was previously forested but is not currently, if used productively, would be available for 
re/afforestation. This limits the global CO2 removal potential from 0.5 to 3.6 GtCO2/year in 2050, but the 
global CO2 removal potential is expected to decline to zero by the end of the century as forests reach 
saturation. Costs are likely to be low around US$5–$50/tCO2. Griscom et al. (2017) estimate that the 
maximum CO2 removal potential of re/afforestation could reach 17.9 GtCO2/year if the land available is 
constrained by human demand for food and fibre, but not costs. However, reaching this potential would 
require significant dietary shifts in order to release free grazing land for forestry. 
The approach has other potential problems. Re/afforestation may increase water demand in already water-
constrained areas, as well as water pollution through fertiliser use. A global meta-analysis reviewing 43 
studies from 13 countries found that that re/afforestation projects reduced annual river flows nearby by 25% 
within five years of implementation. After 25 years, the water levels of rivers fallen by 40%, and in some 
cases dried up entirely. However, this is highly dependent on annual precipitation, the area of forest cover 
and type of land (Bentley and Coomes, 2020). The use of nitrogen fertilisers may also increase NOx emissions 
with high global warming potential. Other negative side effects include changes in evapotranspiration 
through land-use change, and changes in cloud cover and albedo. In terms of positive impacts, forestry may 
benefit biodiversity, but it is case-dependent and may vary according to local conditions. 
There are also uncertainties around the permanent storage of CO2. Human and natural disturbances, such as 
legal and illegal logging, fires, attacks by pests, and drought may release CO2 stored in forests, requiring 
additional resources for protection and maintenance of large forest areas. Moreover, associated land-use 
changes may release CO2 emissions stored elsewhere.  
(iv) Soil carbon sequestration  
Soil carbon sequestration increases organic carbon content of soils through land management practices, 
leading to CO2 sequestration. Land management involves agricultural practices that increase carbon input 
and decrease carbon losses of soil. Carbon input can include leaf litter, residues, roots and manure, whereas 
carbon losses occur through respiration resulting from activities such as tilling and deep ploughing. The 
technology can be deployed immediately as farmers and land managers are already familiar with various 
land management practices and can readily adopt new ones.  
The technology is low-cost at US$0–$100/tCO2, and its CO2 removal potential ranges from 2.9 to 5.7 
GtCO2/year. CO2 removal potential estimates from the literature vary widely due to differing assumptions 
 
An investor guide to negative emission technologies and the importance of land use 
 
37 
about the land area that is available for soil carbon sequestration practices. Although the annual CO2 
removal potential of soil carbon sequestration is promising, its cumulative CO2 removal potential until 2100 
is severely constrained by sink saturation. Depending on soil type, soil may be saturated after 0–100 years 
and ceases to sequestrate CO2 from the atmosphere.  
The positive side effects are likely to outweigh the negative ones. Positive impacts include improvements in 
soil quality and health and hence better crop yield. The technology could therefore contribute to food 
security through increased food supply and a reduction in the cost of food production as it would eliminate 
the need for intensive management of land. The technology does not require any change in land use, and its 
water and energy requirements and impact on albedo are negligible. Potential negative impacts include 
increased N2O and CH4 emissions and water pollution if fertilisers and nutrients run off, but these are limited 
to a subset of practices. 
The CO2 storage is reversible (non-permanent) and requires constant maintenance even after a sink 
becomes saturated, potentially adding to the costs of this technology. 
(v) Biochar 
Biochar is charcoal produced by pyrolysis of biomass – in other words, heating it in the absence of oxygen – 
and it can hold CO2 for many years. Biochar can be used as a soil additive to improve soil fertility and store 
CO2 in soil. The practice is currently in limited use for improving soil quality due to a lack of incentives and 
experience with large-scale plants. More research is needed to understand how the method performs 
against the review criteria. 
Biochar can remove around 0.3–2 GtCO2 per year by 2050 at a cost of US$90–$120/tCO2 removed. The 
availability of biomass for biochar production is the main constraint to the CO2 removal potential of the 
method. Both cost and CO2 removal potential estimates are highly uncertain as feedstock availability, 
production technologies, and application strategies require more research. 
Biochar has both positive and negative side effects. Biochar can increase yield, lower N2O and CH4 emissions, 
and increase the water balance of soil, but these positive impacts vary with soil type, application method and 
management conditions. One negative impact is that biochar can darken the colour of arable land and 
decrease its albedo. As a result, more sunlight is absorbed by the soil, increasing the surface temperature. 
Fine biochar particles blown by wind can decrease radiative forcing further, reducing the benefits of CO2 
being sequestered by biochar. 
The permanence of CO2 sequestration depends on temperature. The residence time varies from a few 
decades in tropical and subtropical regions with high temperatures, to centuries in cooler regions. 
(vi) Enhanced weathering 
Enhanced weathering involves extensive use of carbonate and silicate rocks to accelerate geochemical 
processes on land and in oceans. The process accelerates biogeochemical cycling which sequesters CO2 from 
the atmosphere. Spreading the ground rock over land is already practised to counteract soil acidification and 
could also help to reduce acidity of the oceans due to increased CO2 concentration.  
Depending on the technique used, the CO2 removal potential could range from 2 to 4 GtCO2/year by 2050 at 
a cost of US$50–$200/tCO2 removed. Reported CO2 removal potential in the literature varies widely and is 
highly uncertain since it depends on a variety of assumptions and application characteristics. Research on 
enhanced weathering is at a nascent stage and more evidence is needed on the advantages, disadvantages, 
and economic and technical feasibility of the method employed at scale. 
Enhanced weathering is considered to have low negative impacts, but these need to be studied more. The 
application of large amounts of rock may have unforeseen impacts on soil properties and water sources, 
affecting local ecosystems. The method requires the mining, grounding and spreading of large volumes of 
 
An investor guide to negative emission technologies and the importance of land use 
 
38 
minerals. The estimates range from 1 to 3 Gt of rock per GtCO2 removed, requiring large infrastructure 
investments and mobilisation of resources. A positive impact is that it can serve as a nutrient source and 
enhance soil quality and productivity, especially in tropical areas. This may increase the CO2 removal 
potential of BECCS when both measures are used together, but the impact of the method on the carbon 
content of biomass is poorly studied and needs more attention. 
The sequestered CO2 would be stored permanently in soil or water. In low concentrations, weathering 
products can be stored as alkalinity – in other worlds dissolved inorganic carbon. In high concentrations, 
carbonate minerals can form and be stored in soil or washed out to sea, gravitating to the ocean floor.
 
An investor guide to negative emission technologies and the importance of land use 
 
39 
Appendix 4 – Feasibility of NETs 
Table 5 
Overview of carbon removal potential, costs, constraints, and side effects of NETs 
NET 
Sustainable CO2 
removal potential 
per year in 2050 
(GtCO2) 
Cost in 2050 
($/tCO2) 
Constraints 
Positive impacts 
Negative impacts 
Technical solutions 
BECCS 
0.5–5 
(0.5–32 (2100)) 
100–200 
(15–400) 
Land availability;  
CO2 storage availability 
- 
Supply chain and LUC emissions; 
water scarcity; soil depletion; 
pollution due to fertiliser use; 
impacts on food supply and land 
tenure 
DACCS 
2050: 0.5–5 
2100: up to 30 
(0.5–30) 
100–300 
(30–1,000) 
Capital cost; energy demand; 
material and labour demand 
for construction; water 
demand (depends on 
process) 
- 
Low CO2 concentrations in local 
vegetation 
 
An investor guide to negative emission technologies and the importance of land use 
 
40 
NET 
Sustainable CO2 
removal potential 
per year in 2050 
(GtCO2) 
Cost in 2050 
($/tCO2) 
Constraints 
Positive impacts 
Negative impacts 
Nature-based solutions 
Afforestation 
and 
reforestation 
0.5–3.6 
(0.5–17.9) 
5–50 
(2–237) 
Land competition;  
water and nutrients 
requirements 
Increases biodiversity (depends 
on the case) 
NOx emissions from nitrogen 
fertilisers; changes in 
evapotranspiration, albedo and 
cloud cover; water scarcity 
Soil carbon 
sequestration 
2.9–5.7 
(0.4–13) 
0–100 
(-45–100) 
Sink saturation;  
land availability 
Better soil quality and health; 
food security 
Higher N2O and CH4 emissions 
and water pollution (limited to a 
subset of practices 
Biochar 
0.3–2 
(0.03–6.1)  
90–120 
(-173–225)  
Biomass feedstock availability Higher yield; lower N2O and CH4 
emissions; higher soil’s water 
balance 
Lower albedo and radiative 
forcing 
Enhanced 
weathering 
2–4 
(0.2–88) 
50–200 
(15–1,000) 
Mining, transport, and 
utilisation of large amounts 
of minerals; logistical costs 
Nutrient source;  
soil quality 
Ecological impacts of mineral 
extraction and transport 
Note: 
In columns 2 and 3, the main ranges come from Fuss et al. (2018) and are for 2050. The numbers in parentheses show the minimum and maximum values observed in 
the wider literature and are not year-specific. Figure 12 and Figure 13 below present the ranges and sources in more detail. 
Source: 
Griscom et al. (2017); Martin et al. (2017); Psarras et al. (2017); EASAC (2018, 2019); Fuss et al. (2018); Realmonte et al. (2019); Reid, Ali and Field (2019)
 
An investor guide to negative emission technologies and the importance of land use 
 
41 
Figure 12 The range of CO2 removal potential per year for each NET 
 
Note: 
The graph shows the range of CO2 removal potential estimates for each NET. The rectangular boxes are 
the 2050 ranges from Fuss et al. (2018). The lines represent the wider estimates from the literature and 
are not year-specific. 
The letters represent estimates from the wider literature: A = EASAC (2018); B = EASAC (2019);  
C = Keith et al. (2018); D = Martin et al. (2017); E = Psarras et al. (2017); F = Reid, Ali and Field (2019);  
G = Smith et al. (2016); H = Realmonte et al., (2019); I = Fuss et al. (2018); J = Griscom et al. (2017). 
                       Not all letters are presented in this graph, but they represent the same sources as in Figure 13. The 
letters are the same to facilitate comprehensiveness. 
                       If a letter is shown twice, it means that the source reports a range. 
Source: 
Vivid Economics, based on Table 5 above and other sources from the literature.  
 
 
An investor guide to negative emission technologies and the importance of land use 
 
42 
Figure 13 The range of CO2 sequestration cost in 2050 for each NET 
 
 
Note: 
The graph shows the range of CO2 removal potential estimates for each NET. The rectangular boxes are 
the 2050 ranges from Fuss et al. (2018). The lines represent the wider estimates from the literature and 
are not year-specific. 
The letters represent estimates from the wider literature: A = EASAC (2018); B = EASAC (2019);  
C = Keith et al. (2018); D = Martin et al. (2017); E = Psarras et al. (2017); F = Reid, Ali and Field (2019);  
G = Smith et al. (2016); H = Realmonte et al. (2019); I = Fuss et al. (2018); J = Griscom et al. (2017). 
                       Not all letters are presented in this graph, but they represent the same sources as in Figure 12. The 
letters are the same to facilitate comprehensiveness.  
                       If a letter is shown twice, it means that the source reports a range. 
Source: 
Vivid Economics, based on Table 5 above and other sources from the literature. 
 
An investor guide to negative emission technologies and the importance of land use 
 
43 
References 
Amazon (2020a) Amazon Sustainability. 
Amazon (2020b) As Part of Its Plan to be Net Zero Carbon by 2040, Amazon Commits $10 Million to Restore 
and Conserve 4 Million Acres of Forest in the Appalachians and other U.S. Regions in Partnership with The 
Nature Conservancy, Press release. 
Ambrose, J. (2020) ‘Shell unveils plans to become net-zero carbon company by 2050’, The Guardian. 
American University (2020) Carbon Removal Corporate Action Tracker, Institute for Carbon Removal Law and 
Policy. 
Apple (2020) Apple commits to be 100 percent carbon neutral for its supply chain and products by 2030. 
Bass, D. (2020) Inside Microsoft’s Mission to Go Carbon Negative, Bloomberg. 
BCG (2020) BCG’s Net-Zero Pledge. 
Bentley, L. and Coomes, D. A. (2020) ‘Partial river flow recovery with forest age is rare in the decades 
following establishment’, Global Change Biology, 26(3), pp. 1458–1473. doi: 10.1111/gcb.14954. 
Bernier, P. and Bright, R. (2017) Albedo Effects of Biomass Production: a Review. 
BP (2020) Our carbon offset project portfolio. 
British Airways (2019) British Airways to offset carbon emissions on flights within the UK from 2020. 
Bullard, S. H. and Straka, T. J. (2011) Basic concepts in forest valuation and investment analysis. 
Caiazzo, F. et al. (2014) ‘Quantifying the climate impacts of albedo changes due to biofuel production: A 
comparison with biogeochemical effects’, Environmental Research Letters, 9(2). doi: 10.1088/1748-
9326/9/2/024015. 
Carton, W. et al. (2020) ‘Negative emissions and the long history of carbon removal’, WIRES: Climate Change, 
e671, pp. 1–25. doi: 10.1002/wcc.671. 
Casey, J. P. (2020) More questions than answers: BP’s plan for net-zero emissions, Offshore Technology. 
Catanoso, J. (2020) Success of Microsoft’s ‘moonshot’ climate pledge hinges on forest conservation, 
Mongabay. 
Ceres (2020) The Investor Guide to Deforestation and Climate Change. 
Consoli, C. (2019) Bioenergy and carbon capture and storage. 
Dalman, A. (2020) Carbon budgets: Where are we now?, Carbon Tracker. 
Drax Group (2020) New BECCS pilot project under development at Drax Power Station, Biomass Magazine. 
EASAC (2018) Negative emission technologies: What role in meeting Paris Agreement targets?, EASAC Policy 
Report. 
EASAC (2019) Forest bioenergy, carbon capture and storage, and carbon dioxide removal: an update. doi: 
10.1080/14693062.2018.1509044. 
 
An investor guide to negative emission technologies and the importance of land use 
 
44 
ECIU (2020) Net Zero Ambition Globally. Available at: https://eciu.net/analysis/infographics/global-net-zero-
ambition. 
EcoSecurities (2020) ‘International Offsets Newsletter’, (May). 
Ecosystem Marketplace (2019a) EasyJet Says it’s Now Carbon Neutral. 
Ecosystem Marketplace (2019b) Financing Emissions Reductions for the Future: State of the voluntary carbon 
markets 2019. Washington, DC. 
‘Energy Technology Perspectives 2017’ (no date). 
Environment & Energy Leader (2020) P&G Says Global Operations to Be Carbon Neutral within the Decade. 
EPA (2020) Carbon Dioxide Emissions Associated with Bioenergy and Other Biogenic Sources. Available at: 
https://19january2017snapshot.epa.gov/climatechange/carbon-dioxide-emissions-associated-bioenergy-
and-other-biogenic-sources_.html#:~:text=Biogenic CO2 emissions are,processing of biologically based 
materials. 
Evans, J. (2020) P&G urged to match best in class to avoid ‘greenwash’ label, Financial Times. 
Fajardy, M. et al. (2019) BECCS deployment: a reality check, Grantham Institute. 
FAO (2010) Bioenergy and Food Security: The BEFS Analytical, The Bioenergy and Food Security Project. 
Rome. 
Federici, S. et al. (2015) ‘New estimates of CO2 forest emissions and removals: 1990-2015’, Forest Ecology 
and Management. Elsevier B.V., 352, pp. 89–98. doi: 10.1016/j.foreco.2015.04.022. 
Ferguson, I. (2018) ‘Discount rates for corporate forest valuations’, Australian forestry, 3(81), pp. 142–147. 
Fern (2018) Six problems with BECCS. 
Fulton, M. (2020) Pathways to Net Zero: Scenario Architecture for strategic resilience testing and planning. 
Fuss, S. et al. (2018) ‘Negative emissions - Part 2: Costs, potentials and side effects’, Environmental Research 
Letters, 13(6). doi: 10.1088/1748-9326/aabf9f. 
Geden, O. and Schenuit, F. (2020) Unconventional Mitigation: Carbon Dioxide Removal as a New Approach in 
EU Climate Policy, Stiftung Wissenschaft und Politik. 
Griscom, B. W. et al. (2017) ‘Natural climate solutions’, Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of 
the United States of America. National Academy of Sciences, 114(44), pp. 11645–11650. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.1710465114. 
Gross, A., Hook, L. and Powley, T. (2019) ‘Boom times are back for carbon offsetting industry’, Financial 
Times. 
Henderson, K. et al. (2020) Climate math: What a 1.5-degree pathway would take, McKinsey Quarterly. 
IAMC & IIASA (2019) IAMC 1.5°C Scenario Explorer hosted by IIASA (release 2.0). doi: 
https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3363345. 
IEA (2019) ‘World Energy Outlook 2019’. 
IIASA (2020) NGFS Scenario Explorer hosted by IIASA release 1.0. 
IKEA (2019) What does being climate positive mean for IKEA? 
 
An investor guide to negative emission technologies and the importance of land use 
 
45 
IOM3 (2019) French energy provider Total announces forest project. 
IPBES (2019) Global assessment report on biodiversity and ecosystem services of the Intergovernmental 
Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services. Available at: https://ipbes.net/global-
assessment. 
IPCC (2018) Mitigation Pathways Compatible with 1.5°C in the Context of Sustainable Development. 
IPR (2019a) Impacts of the inevitable policy response on equity markets. 
IPR (2019b) The Inevitable Policy Response: Forecast Policy Scenario. 
Keith, D. et al. (2018) ‘A Process for Capturing CO2 from the Atmosphere’, Joule. 
Martin, D. et al. (2017) Carbon Dioxide Removal Options: a Literature Review Identifying Carbon Removal 
Potentials and Costs. doi: 10.2307/j.ctt1ffjdpw.3. 
Minx, J. C. et al. (2018) ‘Negative emissions - Part 1: Research landscape and synthesis’, Environmental 
Research Letters, 13(6). doi: 10.1088/1748-9326/aabf9b. 
Nestlé (2019) Nestlé accelerates action to tackle climate change and commits to zero net emissions by 2050. 
NGFS (2020) Climate Scenarios Database: Technical Documentation. 
Otley, T. (2020) Sustainability: British Airways aims for net zero emissions by 2050, Business Traveller. 
Peters, A. (2019) Inside Apple’s plan to protect a 27,000-acre forest in Colombia, Fast Company. 
Psarras, P. et al. (2017) ‘Slicing the pie: how big could carbon dioxide removal be ?’, WIREs Energy Environ, 
e253, pp. 1–21. doi: 10.1002/wene.253. 
Qantas (2019) Qantas group to slash carbon emissions. 
Realmonte, G. et al. (2019) ‘An inter-model assessment of the role of direct air capture in deep mitigation 
pathways’, Nature Communications. Springer US, 10(1), pp. 1–12. doi: 10.1038/s41467-019-10842-5. 
Reid, W. V, Ali, M. K. and Field, C. B. (2019) ‘The Future of Bioenergy.’, Global change biology, (October 
2019), pp. 274–286. doi: 10.1111/gcb.14883. 
Science Based Targets (2020) Meet the companies already setting their emissions reduction targets in line 
with climate science. 
Shell (2019) Nature’s role in the fight against climate change. 
Shell (2020a) Shell’s ambition to be a net-zero emissions energy business. 
Shell (2020b) What is Shell’s net carbon footprint ambition? 
Smith, B. (2020) Microsoft will be carbon negative by 2030, Official Microsoft Blog. 
Smith, P. et al. (2016) ‘Biophysical and economic limits to negative CO2 emissions’, Nature Climate Change, 
6(1), pp. 42–50. doi: 10.1038/nclimate2870. 
‘State and Trends of Carbon Pricing 2020’ (2020). doi: 10.1596/978-1-4648-1586-7. 
Summers, D., Bryan, B., Martin, N. and Hobbs, T. (2015) ‘The costs of reforestation: a spatial model of the 
costs of establishing environmental and carbon plantings’, Land Use Policy, (44), pp. 110–121. 
 
An investor guide to negative emission technologies and the importance of land use 
 
46 
The Committee on Climate Change (2011) Bioenergy Review. 
The Committee on Climate Change (2018) Biomass in a low-carbon economy. 
Total (2020) Total adopts a new climate ambition to get to net zero by 2050. 
Turner, P. A. et al. (2018) ‘Unprecedented rates of land-use transformation in modelled climate change 
mitigation pathways’, Nature Sustainability. Springer US, 1(5), pp. 240–245. doi: 10.1038/s41893-018-0063-
7. 
UN PRI (2019) Seven major companies that committed to net-zero emissions in 2019. 
UNFCCC (2020) Commitments to Net Zero Double in Less Than a Year, UN Climate Press Release. 
Verra (2020) ‘Data and Insights: VCS Quarterly Update, Issue #2 - Q1 2020’, Verra Reports. 
Watson, F. (2020) Global carbon offsets market could be worth $200 billion by 2050: Berenberg, S&P Global 
Platts. 
Wise, L., Marland, E., Marland, G. et al. (2019) ‘Optimizing sequestered carbon in forest offset programs: 
balancing accounting stringency and participation’, Carbon Balance Management, 14(16). doi: 
https://doi.org/10.1186/s13021-019-0131-y. 
World Bank (2020) State and Trends of Carbon Pricing 2020, World Bank Group. Washington, D.C.: World 
Bank Group. 
Zorrilla-Miras, P., Marcos, C., Mulligan, M., Giordano, R., Graveline, N., Máñez-Costa, M., Pengal, P., van der 
Keur, P., Altamirano, M., Matthews, J. and Lopez-Gunn, E. (2018) ‘Nature Insurance value: Assessment and 
Demonstration’, NAIAD project (European H2020), p. 19698. 
 
 
 
 
An investor guide to negative emission technologies and the importance of land use 
 
47 
Acknowledgements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This paper was funded by the Gordon and Betty 
Moore Foundation through the Finance Hub, which 
was created to advance sustainable finance. 
 
An investor guide to negative emission technologies and the importance of land use 
Contact us 
Vivid Economics Limited 
163 Eversholt Street  
London NW1 1BU 
United Kingdom 
T: +44 (0)844 8000 254 
enquiries@vivideconomics.com  
Company profile 
Vivid Economics is a leading strategic economics consultancy with global reach. We strive to create lasting 
value for our clients, both in government and the private sector, and for society at large. 
We are a premier consultant in the policy-commerce interface and resource- and environment-intensive 
sectors, where we advise on the most critical and complex policy and commercial questions facing clients 
around the world. The success we bring to our clients reflects a strong partnership culture, solid foundation 
of skills and analytical assets, and close cooperation with a large network of contacts across key 
organisations. 
