  
Delivering 
Clean Growth: 
CCUS Cost Challenge Taskforce Report 
July 2018 
  
 
COVER IMAGE: VIEW OF TEESSIDE 
INDUSTRIAL LANDSCAPE 
Photo courtesy of Teesside Collective UK 
Photographer: Dave Charnley 
02 
Foreword from 
the Minister 
03 
Foreword from 
the Chair 
04 
Executive Summary 
10 
Table of 
Recommendations 
11 
Introduction 
01 
14 
Part A: The CCUS 
Opportunity 
32 
Part B: Developing a 
Pipeline of Financeable 
UK Projects 
42 
Part C: Implementation 
CCUS COST CHALLENGE TASKFORCE REPORT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
02 
Foreword from the Minister 
Climate change is one of the most pressing challenges we 
face both domestically and internationally and tackling it 
will require serious ambition and serious action. However, the 
global response to this challenge is al so one of the greatest 
industrial opportunities of our time. 
As the world pivots to a low-carbon economy we want to maximise the advantages 
for UK industry from this transition and to ensure we beneﬁt from the innovative new 
technologies that will be at the heart of meeting our climate ambitions. I believe CCUS 
is one of the most exciting technologies in this space. 
There is international recognition that we need CCUS to meet the global climate 
ambitions agreed through the Paris Agreement in 2015, and while there are now over 
twenty CCUS projects globally, it remains a pre-commercial technology. This means 
there is a genuine opportunity for the UK to become a global technology leader for 
CCUS, working internationally with industry and governments to drive down the cost 
of deployment. 
As I set out through the Government’s Clean Growth Strategy, we want to have the 
option to deploy CCUS at scale during the 2030s, subject to costs coming down 
sufﬁ ciently. I believe the opportunities from CCUS are real and could have a tangible 
impact for the UK on tackling some of the biggest challenges we face in decarbonising 
our economy. 
Whilst we have made great strides in decarbonising our power sector, we know that the 
UK still needs gas. Every scenario proposed by the Committee on Climate Change to 
meet our legally binding carbon reduction commitments includes the continuing use of 
natural gas. CCUS may have a role to play in helping to cut the carbon impact of gas, 
extending the life of our existing plant. 
There are also signiﬁ cant opportunities to deploy CCUS in industry, not only to reduce 
emissions, but to improve productivity and the competitiveness of our industrial 
centres. I am excited to explore further the deployment of CCUS within industrial 
clusters to support decarbonisation in industry, and potentially in transport and in heat 
through hydrogen. 
Seizing the opportunities of CCUS will not be easy and will require bright minds from 
across the country to work together. Low cost, large scale deployment of CCUS will 
require partnerships between government, businesses, brilliant innovators, the best 
scientiﬁ c and engineering minds, communities and centres of industrial excellence. 
The CCUS Cost Challenge Taskforce was the ﬁ rst example of what we can achieve 
when we bring together leading experts to provide advice on how we can achieve 
these aims. I am grateful to all members of the Taskforce, in particular the Chair 
Charlotte Morgan, for their work in producing this report. 
I look forward to continuing to work in partnership with industry to understand further 
the challenges and opportunities set out in the report and in doing so, securing the 
economic and climate beneﬁts that CCUS has the potential to deliver. 
The Rt Hon Claire Perry MP 
Minister of State for Energy and Clean Growth 
DELIVERING CLEAN GROWTH 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
03 
Foreword from the Chair 
Having worked in the energy sector for the past 24 years, I 
have witnessed and been part of many of the changes that 
have affected the sector as it has evolved. Ten years ago, very 
few would have predicted the make-up of our electricity mix 
today. The shift to low carbon generation in the electricity 
market has been phenomenal. 
As the Committee on Climate Change (“CCC”) concluded in their recent progress report 
to Parliament, UK emissions reductions in the electricity sector have been driven as a 
result of bold strategic commitments. But as the next decade draws closer there is still 
much to do, particularly if as a country, we are to reach those parts of the economy 
which are harder to decarbonise. The time to take the next step in the decarbonisation 
pathway is now and will require strategic global leadership. 
As a Taskforce we endorse the CCC’s call for a clear, funded approach to the 
deployment of CCUS at scale. The role that CCUS can play in reducing emissions 
cuts across many sectors, not just electricity but also heating, industry and transport. 
As a technology CCUS has the potential not just to support the UK’s carbon 
reduction commitments, but also to support clean growth, improved productivity and 
competitiveness in a future low carbon economy. 
For this to happen we must recognise the value of CCUS, and the urgency with which 
we must deploy it in the UK. By acting now and working with industry and governments 
around the world, the UK can become a global technology leader in this ﬁ eld. 
This taskforce has worked tirelessly to show the value of CCUS, and the challenges 
ahead if CCUS deployment is delayed further. The recommendations contained within 
this Report are intended to provide government and industry with a series of actions 
which can support the Government’s ambition of having the option to deploy CCUS at 
scale from the 2030s. As a Taskforce, we look forward to working with the Government 
as it develops the Deployment Pathway. 
Finally, I was honoured to be asked to chair the CCUS Cost Challenge Taskforce by 
Minister Perry. I have relished the debate and the engagement of the whole industry, 
which, with the right signals from government, is poised to deliver both growth 
and decarbonisation. I am hugely grateful for the dedication and commitment of 
the Taskforce members, and would like to personally thank all of those who have 
contributed to the report. 
Charlotte Morgan 
Partner, Linklaters LLP 
Chair, CCUS Cost Challenge Taskforce appointed by HM Government 
CCUS COST CHALLENGE TASKFORCE REPORT 
 
 
 
Executive Summary 
THE CONTEXT: 
The Clean 
Growth 
Strategy and 
the CCUS Cost 
Challenge 
Taskforce 
DELIVERING CLEAN GROWTH 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
05 
The Clean Growth Strategy reafﬁ rms 
the UK Government’s commitment to 
lead the way to a low carbon future and 
underlines the enormous opportunity for 
the UK that is emerging from the global 
transition to a low carbon economy. 
The Clean Growth Strategy sets out the 
Government’s new approach to carbon 
capture usage and storage (“CCUS”), 
and recognises the potential importance 
of CCUS to support the decarbonisation 
of the UK’s economy1. 
The CCUS Cost Challenge Taskforce 
was established in January 2018 with 
the remit of informing and proposing 
a strategic plan to Government for 
supporting the development of CCUS in 
the UK, in order to meet Government’s 
stated ambition of “having the option to 
deploy CCUS at scale during the 2030s, 
subject to costs coming down sufﬁ ciently2”. 
In this report, the Taskforce proposes a 
range of measures and actions to inform 
a new approach to CCUS deployment 
that will enable cost reductions to be 
secured. By demonstrating that CCUS 
can deliver decarbonisation across 
industry, power, and provide solutions 
for heat and transport, the report focuses 
on building a long term, commercially 
sustainable and cost-effective 
decarbonisation service industry 
for the UK. This, in turn, can bring new 
industrial opportunities, secure long term 
jobs, deliver new economic development 
across our industrial heartlands and 
secure international competitiveness 
through new decarbonised products 
and services. 
We have identiﬁ ed viable business 
models, funding mechanisms, and an 
innovation pathway, as well as suggesting 
options to support the lowest cost delivery 
of a potentially transformative technology, 
underpinned by a series of short, medium 
and longer term recommendations. 
Our conclusion: CCUS meets 
the three tests of the Clean 
Growth Strategy 
Developing and deploying CCUS in the 
UK is consistent with all three tests set 
out by the Minister of State for Energy 
and Clean Growth in launching the Clean 
Growth Strategy3: 
− 
Delivering maximum carbon emissions reduction: CCUS can support cost-effective 
decarbonisation across a wide range of sectors, while simultaneously supporting 
clean growth across the economy. CCUS is a key technology which can enable 
decarbonisation in some high value industrial sectors, retaining and creating key 
jobs as part of a modern industrial strategy. 
− 
Following a clear cost reduction pathway: Cost-effective CCUS can be achieved 
through industry and Government working together to: 
− 
Unlock early investment: Industry and Government working together 
to create a stable, long term, supportive policy environment to unlock 
development of at least two CCUS clusters to be operational from the 
mid-2020s, anchored by “catalyst” projects to enable learning by doing, 
to pull through innovation and reduce the cost of capital, meaning future 
projects cost less. 
− 
A new business model for CO2 transport and storage infrastructure: 
Separating the business model for CO2 transport and storage (“T&S”) 
infrastructure from the business models for CO2 capture projects can reduce 
overall commercial risks and costs, by reaching cost-effective public-private 
risk sharing arrangements. Developing viable business models, as well as 
sharing of T&S infrastructure, and the strategic re-use of existing oil and 
gas assets are considered important steps that can enable potential cost 
reduction in CCUS. 
− 
Create CCUS clusters: The development of clusters (i.e. regional groupings 
where several CCUS facilities share infrastructure and knowledge) and 
associated Clean Growth Regeneration (“CGR”) Zones can help drive 
lower cost CCUS, unlock value for local economies, and foster continuous 
technical innovation. Early progress is required to develop these clusters. 
− 
Making the UK a global technology leader: By acting now, the UK will be able to 
make the most of its current engineering, geological, and commercial advantages 
to build a strategic supply chain, and grasp the opportunity to develop a large 
export market share of a potential globally signiﬁ cant sector. 
1 
UK Government, 2017. The Clean Growth Strategy: Leading the way to a low carbon future 
2 CCUS Cost Challenge Taskforce, 2018, Terms of Reference: https://www.gov.uk/government/groups/ccus-cost-challenge-taskforce 
3 
Rt Hon Claire Perry MP, Speech 12 October 2017: https://www.gov.uk/Government/speeches/launch-of-the-clean-growth-strategy 
CCUS COST CHALLENGE TASKFORCE REPORT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
06 
The Taskforce has four key messages for Government 
− 
We need to recognise the CCUS opportunity and the urgency of acting now 
in order to deliver CCUS at scale, at lowest cost. Project lead times are long, 
and time is limited if we are to deliver CCUS on the scale which may be necessary 
by 2050, with potentially well over 100 million tonnes of carbon dioxide per year 
needing to be stored4. This can be achieved with joint industry and Government 
vision, supported by the ﬁ rst projects becoming operational from the mid-2020s 
and an industry pipeline of ﬁ nanceable projects. 
− 
CCUS can unlock value across the economy to enable low carbon industrial 
products, decarbonised electricity and gas, a hydrogen economy, greenhouse 
gas removal, and new industries based around utilising CO2. 
− 
We need viable business models to move the technology to a sustainable 
commercial footing. 
To progress action on these key 
− 
We believe that CCUS can already be deployed at a competitive cost. 
messages we have set out a 
Project concepts being proposed are comparable on cost with other ﬁ rst 
series of RECOMMENDATIONS which 
of a kind low carbon technologies. Our approach is to focus on deploying 
show a way in which Government and 
CCUS in clusters, with the cluster stakeholders identifying how the value 
industry could work in partnership to 
of CCUS can best be secured to beneﬁt their local economies and needs. 
secure cost-competitive CCUS in the UK. 
4 
Committee on Climate Change, 2018, Reducing UK emissions – 2018 Progress Report to Parliament 
VIEW OF TEESSIDE INDUSTRIAL LANDSCAPE 
Photo courtesy of Teesside Collective UK 
Photographer: Dave Charnley 
DELIVERING CLEAN GROWTH 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
07 
The Taskforce’s key messages 
1. 
We need to recognise the CCUS 
opportunity and the urgency of 
acting now in order to deliver 
CCUS at scale, at lowest cost. 
The Committee on Climate Change 
(or “CCC”) in their 2018 Progress 
Report to Parliament5 indicate that 
the UK will need to store at least 
60, and potentially well over 
100 MtCO2 each year by 2050 
(up to a maximum of 180 MtCO2 per 
year6), if it is to meet the 2050 target 
under the Climate Change Act. 
This is why the CCC has 
recommended that the ﬁ rst CCUS 
cluster is operational by 2026, 
with approximately 10 MtCO2 
being stored each year by 2030, 
on the path to at least 20 MtCO2 each 
year by 2035. This staged build-out 
is crucial in order ﬁ rst to create a 
new industry, to de-risk it, and then 
expand it to the required scale during 
the 2030s and onwards. 
In the Clean Growth Strategy, 
the Government stated its ambition 
is to have “the option to deploy 
CCUS at scale during the 2030s, 
subject to costs coming down 
sufﬁ ciently”. To achieve this ambition, 
we recommend that, consistent with 
the CCC’s 2018 Progress Report to 
Parliament, a minimum of two CCUS 
clusters (incorporating capture plants 
and CO2 stores) are operational 
from the mid-2020s to enable the 
commercial model to be tested, 
lessons to be learnt and applied to 
subsequent projects, and to realise 
the Government’s ambition of having 
the option to deploy CCUS at scale 
during the 2030s, should the costs 
come down sufﬁ ciently. Given the 
typical project development time 
of between ﬁve and eight years, 
investment decisions need to be 
taken by the early 2020s at the latest 
if this is to be achieved. 
Government ambition matched 
with industry commitments: 
A pipeline of deliverable and 
ﬁnanceable projects needs a joint 
industry and Government vision 
to unlock the investment required 
and deliver a strong partnership 
with the private sector. 
With viable business models in 
place and clear Government and 
industry commitments to the policy 
framework, our view is that CCUS 
projects can be ﬁ nanced through 
private investment. Developing CCUS 
projects is capital intensive and the 
cost of ﬁ nancing will be directly 
related to risk allocation as well 
as the maturity of the sector. 
Reducing the cost of capital will be 
a signiﬁ cant component of future 
cost reduction in CCUS. For example, 
the UK has become the world’s 
largest offshore wind generator7 
against a backdrop of two decades 
of clear UK Government commitments 
(including policy and support 
systems: FITs, ROCs and CFDs) 
and industry delivery, with signiﬁ cant 
cost reductions achieved, partly 
through reducing the cost of capital. 
There needs to be a similar vision 
and commitment to CCUS, in order 
to galvanise and focus the CCUS 
industry and its supply chain to drive 
down the costs of CCUS deployment, 
and to deliver the required scale of 
deployment for CCUS. With this, and 
the right business models, the private 
sector will be able to deliver CCUS 
cost-effectively. 
2. CCUS can unlock value across 
the economy. 
The UK’s industrial decarbonisation 
action plans published in 
October 2017 identify CCUS as 
“an important technology for 
industrial decarbonisation, 
particularly for the cement, 
chemicals, oil reﬁ ning and iron 
& steel sectors”8. CCUS is seen 
as the most effective way to 
abate CO2 emissions from some 
process industries such as steel, 
lime, cement, and chemicals. 
For example, in cement production 
most CO2 emissions come from 
calcining calcium carbonate, 
rather than from energy use. 
Consumer-facing companies are 
already under pressure from their 
customers to show, and lower, 
the environmental impact of their 
products. Deploying CCUS can 
lower the carbon footprint of 
industrial products. With the right 
policy incentives CCUS can help 
UK heavy industries be competitive 
in a low carbon world and attract 
new investors looking for ways to 
produce low carbon, cost competitive 
industrial products. For the longer 
term, we have set out proposals 
for a ‘decarbonised product mark’, 
a certiﬁ cation system for low carbon 
industrial products which can be 
an independent revenue stream 
for such industries. 
CCUS can help balance the 
power system. 
Gas or biomass electricity generation 
with CCUS can, in addition to being 
low carbon baseload, also be “ﬂ exible” 
or “dispatchable” so electricity 
output can be adjusted to meet 
5 Committee on Climate Change, 2018, Reducing UK emissions – 2018 Progress Report to Parliament 
6 Upper limit of 180 MtCO2 per year by 2050 from: Committee on Climate Change, 2018, pers.comm. 29 June 
7 
Global Wind Energy Council, 2017, GWEC Global Wind 2017 Report 
8 Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy, 2017. Industrial decarbonisation and energy efﬁciency action plans 
CCUS COST CHALLENGE TASKFORCE REPORT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
08 
changes in electricity demand while 
still capturing the emissions from 
generation9. This characteristic 
complements the intermittency 
of renewables. 
The UK Energy Research Centre 
estimates the cost of renewables 
intermittency as £10/MWh in 203010, 
rising substantially thereafter. 
If the electricity system is not 
sufﬁ ciently ﬂexible to accommodate 
high renewable capacity, low carbon 
ﬂexible generation with CCUS 
is one option which can reduce 
system costs of £4-8 billion per year11. 
CCUS unlocks a hydrogen economy 
to decarbonise the heating and 
transport sector. 
Though we recognise that there is 
currently no broad consensus on 
the best approach to long term heat 
decarbonisation, hydrogen has 
the potential to play a signiﬁ cant 
role in the future in decarbonising 
industry, transport and heating, and 
opportunities exist for the UK to lead 
the creation of a hydrogen economy. 
Hydrogen can be used by industry 
and other large gas consumers 
for both power and heat to reduce 
their on-site emissions, either 
by blending hydrogen into the 
existing natural gas networks or 
by replacing the natural gas with 
hydrogen. In transport, hydrogen 
with CCUS could be an enabler 
for decarbonising the transport 
ﬂeet, including trucks, trains and 
shipping. Longer term, it may also 
offer the potential for the UK to lead 
the “green” transformation of the 
shipping industry. 
Developing Greenhouse Gas 
Removal (GGR) technologies. 
CCUS infrastructure is a prerequisite 
for many of the most advanced GGR 
technologies, including BECCS and 
direct air capture, which can deliver 
negative emissions. Functioning 
CCUS infrastructure will therefore 
be critical to enable these GGR 
technologies to be deployed to 
support a move to a net zero carbon 
economy, compensating for the 
residual ‘hard to decarbonise’ 
sectors such as marine transport, 
aviation and agriculture. 
Retaining skills, creating new jobs, 
and becoming a global leader. 
The UK is a world leader in 
addressing climate change and has 
considerable expertise in the low 
carbon sector, which has created 
thousands of domestic jobs as well 
as export opportunities for low 
carbon services12. 
CCUS can enable the UK to both 
retain and generate new high 
value jobs, pioneer new low carbon 
manufacturing industries and 
companies and export these goods 
and services around the world. 
Developing CCUS would enable 
the UK to realise the value of its 
considerable natural geological 
resources for offshore CO2 storage 
and, in some cases, take advantage 
of signiﬁ cant cost reductions from re-
using existing pipeline infrastructure. 
This opportunity can be taken up now. 
3. We need viable business models. 
To meet the timescales of CCUS 
clusters being operational from the 
mid-2020s, projects may have to be 
initiated using funding mechanisms 
that largely already exist or could 
be implemented quickly, while 
minimising the impact on consumers 
and taxpayers. 
We recognise that different business 
models will be needed for CO2 
capture plants in each sector, 
for example, to develop hydrogen, 
industrial capture and possible 
power projects. 
In parallel, we recommend a new 
business model for CO2 T&S, in which 
the revenues of the CO2 capture 
plant are independent from those 
associated with T&S. The preferred 
model for the T&S would follow 
the regulated asset base (“RAB”) 
structure used in other regulated 
industries and the T&S fee would 
be shared between the projects 
that use the T&S infrastructure. 
It is also important to explore 
how GGR technologies which rely 
on CCUS and provide negative 
emissions could be incentivised. 
More focus is needed on this topic. 
The Taskforce’s view is that the 
Government’s Review of CCUS 
Delivery and Investment Frameworks, 
announced in the Clean Growth 
Strategy, is a priority and we 
recommend that Government 
collaborates and consults with 
industry on the Review to develop 
viable business models and an 
agreed risk allocation for CCUS. 
9 Mac Dowell et. al., 2017. IEAGHG Report 2017/09 – The FlexEVAL project. “Valuing ﬂexibility in CCS power plants” 
10 Heptonstall et. al., 2017. A systematic review of the evidence on the costs and impacts of intermittent electricity generation technologies – 2016 update 
11 Imperial College London and NERA Economic Consulting, 2015. Value of Flexibility in a Decarbonised Grid and System Externalities of Low carbon 
Generation Technologies 
12 Ofﬁce for National Statistics, 2018, UK Environmental Accounts: Low Carbon and Renewable Energy Economy Survey: 2016 ﬁnal estimates 
DELIVERING CLEAN GROWTH 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
09 
4. We believe that CCUS can 
already be deployed in clusters 
at a competitive cost. 
We recommend that CCUS is 
established in clusters to maximise 
potential cost reductions from 
economies of scale, and to realise 
the cross-sectoral value of CCUS. 
We propose that industry and 
Government develop a policy 
framework to enable this and, in 
turn, the CCUS industry will work in 
partnership with national, devolved, 
regional and local Government to 
bring forward innovative business 
plans for the development of 
CCUS clusters. 
The Taskforce’s view is that the 
deployment of CCUS at scale 
is key for driving cost reductions, 
such as has been the case for 
offshore wind. Shell, the developers 
of the Quest CCUS Project in Canada, 
believe that the cost of their next 
project could be up to 30% lower13. 
The Taskforce recommends that 
carefully targeted development 
funding is made available to support 
this. With a policy framework and 
funding commitment from central 
Government, industry, working with 
the devolved administrations and 
regional and local Government 
(including local authorities, 
Local Enterprise Partnerships, 
and City Mayors, where appropriate), 
can develop innovative, detailed, 
and costed CCUS cluster proposals. 
The UK already has potential 
cluster locations, each of which 
presents different opportunities for 
development. We do not recommend 
what should be a catalyst project 
in any cluster – that will depend on 
the opportunities at that cluster and 
the business plans that each cluster 
puts forward. 
Clusters at the heart of Clean 
Growth Regeneration Zones for 
jobs and innovation. 
Each CCUS cluster could be the 
foundation for a Clean Growth 
Regeneration (“CGR”) Zone, 
to drive new thinking around 
CCUS innovation, deployment, 
investment and how CCUS can 
integrate with other decarbonisation 
options to support wider industrial 
decarbonisation. The CGR Zones 
can support the Government’s 
decarbonisation and innovation 
vision, with CCUS clusters anchoring 
investment in regions, thereby 
boosting local jobs and skills. 
These Zones should form a key part 
of the Local Industrial Strategies. 
Putting policy in place. 
We have suggested criteria for 
cluster selection and recommend 
that Government progresses this 
urgently and publishes its policy 
framework and criteria in early 2019. 
This will enable rapid progress to be 
made in selecting regions that would 
become the focus for early CCUS 
investment and keep development 
of the ﬁ rst CCUS projects on track 
to be commissioned from the mid-
2020s. Each cluster plan would be 
considered against the investment 
required and their ability to support 
the Government’s ambition to 
deploy CCUS at scale during the 
2030s, subject to the costs coming 
down sufﬁ ciently. 
A “CCUS roadmap” of enabling 
actions is needed to deliver these 
key messages. 
The Taskforce’s view is that 
Government needs to work with 
industry to set out a CCUS roadmap 
to support its commitment to 
deploying CCUS in the UK. Our view 
is that innovation, cost reduction and 
learning will come from an industry 
and Government galvanised around 
a clear goal to be achieved by a 
speciﬁ ed time. 
The Deployment Pathway 
publication, to be published by 
the end of 2018, should include 
a roadmap developed jointly by 
industry and Government to show 
how CCUS can be developed and 
deployed across the different 
sectors, by providing clear pathways 
and enabling mechanisms to be put 
in place up to 2030. 
13 Global CCS Institute, 2016 (online), Shell’s Quest Carbon Capture and Storage Project reaches signiﬁcant milestone. Available at 
https://www.globalccsinstitute.com/news/institute-updates/shell%E2%80%99s-quest-carbon-capture-and-storage-project-reaches-signiﬁ cant-
milestone, Accessed 27/06/2018 
CCUS COST CHALLENGE TASKFORCE REPORT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-
’
-
-
’
-
10 
Table of Recommendations 
Recommended actions 
to take now to unlock 
industry action 
1. 
Government to publish the CCUS 
Deployment Pathway by the end of 
2018, including a commitment to have 
at least two carbon capture, usage 
and storage clusters operational from 
the mid 2020s. 
2. Industry and Government to work 
together to develop a CCUS roadmap 
for the UK as part of the Deployment 
Pathway publication by the end 
of 2018. 
3. Government to publish a policy 
framework and criteria to enable 
and prioritise CCUS clusters in the 
ﬁ rst half of 2019. 
4. Government to respond to the 
Taskforce s recommended business 
models for CCUS through its 
Review of Delivery and Investment 
Frameworks for CCUS. 
5. Industry, Government, and local 
partners to work together to support 
the development of innovative 
business plans for the development 
of CCUS clusters. 
6. Industry and Government to identify 
North Sea and East Irish Sea oil and 
gas infrastructure at risk of being 
decommissioned in the next 5 10 
years which could be maintained 
as “strategic assets” for CCUS use 
in the future. A cross Governmental 
working group, including the OGA 
and the devolved administrations, 
to review these assets and include 
them in the CCUS Deployment 
Pathway to be published by the 
end of 2018. 
7. 
Industry, Government and the 
regulator to develop the mechanisms 
by which hydrogen projects could 
be funded through the RIIO 2 
mechanisms before gas distribution 
networks business plans are due for 
submission (September 2019). 
8. Government to support the timely 
achievement of an exemption to 
the Gas Safety (Management) 
Regulations (GS(M)R) speciﬁ cation 
to enable a higher blend of hydrogen 
to be included in the gas distribution 
and transmission networks, and to 
consider developing a policy that 
requires including a steadily rising 
percentage of hydrogen (produced 
by low carbon methods) in gas 
supplied to customers. 
9. Working with industry, Government 
to more fully assess value of 
CCUS to the wider UK economy 
(including in terms of utilising existing 
infrastructure, skills capacity, and 
supporting opportunities for future 
clean growth and development). 
10. Industry and Government to work 
with the CCUS Council to monitor 
and recommend ways to maintain 
UK s leadership in CCUS nationally 
and internationally. 
Recommended actions 
to take next to unlock 
investment 
11. Industry and Government to develop 
and consult with the ﬁ nance 
community on an agreed risk 
allocation for CCUS projects through 
the Review of CCUS Delivery and 
Investment Frameworks. 
12. Industry and Government to 
engage with the ﬁ nance community 
and the Green Finance Taskforce to 
establish the agreed parameters for 
debt and equity (and any new green 
ﬁ nancing mechanisms) for CCUS 
projects (including accreditation 
requirements for a green bond, 
and a tax credit option). 
13. Industry to foster sharing of 
innovation in CCUS technologies and 
processes in line with the foundations 
set out in the Industrial Strategy. 
Recommended actions 
for longer term to 
unlock ambition 
14. Industry and Government to promote 
international cooperation, including 
accelerating the option of shipping 
CO2 across international borders 
to enable the development of 
pan European CO2 storage services. 
15. Working with sector regulators, 
industry and Government to 
assess opportunities for regulatory 
coherence and innovation across the 
heating, transport, gas and electricity 
sectors in the development of 
a decarbonised economy. 
16. Industry to lead the creation of the 
decarbonised product mark, a clean 
industrial products certiﬁ cation 
system, to certify the low carbon 
USP of decarbonised industrial 
products and Government to 
encourage their domestic use 
and global export. 
DELIVERING CLEAN GROWTH 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11 
Introduction 
The UK is a world leader in acting against climate change 
The UK was one of the ﬁ rst countries in the world to set legally binding climate 
change targets through the 2008 Climate Change Act14 which committed the UK 
to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by at least 80% by 2050 compared to 1990 
levels. It is also among the hundred and seventy-six countries that have so far 
ratiﬁ ed the 2015 Paris Agreement. 
As part of the UK’s commitments to its carbon budgets it established the 
Committee on Climate Change (“CCC”), an independent body which advises and 
holds Government to account on its plans to meet each ﬁve year carbon budget. 
CCUS is a vital method of achieving the UK’s Paris Agreement goals. Without it 
achieving the ‘well below 2 degrees’ objective would be, on average, some 138% 
more expensive (and, indeed, in most models, the target could not be achieved 
without CCUS15). In 2016 the CCC wrote speciﬁ cally to Government advising of the 
“…critical importance (of CCUS) to meet the UK’s carbon targets at least cost and to 
fulﬁ l the ambition of the Paris Agreement16”. The CCC highlighted that because 
of the limited low carbon alternatives to CCUS across a number of sectors and 
applications, there was an “estimated doubling of the cost of meeting the UK’s 
2050 target if CCS is not available”. 
In launching the Clean Growth Strategy, the Minister for Energy and Clean 
Growth set out a vision to transform the UK economy through innovation, 
vital infrastructure investment and a clear commitment to emission reductions 
and clean growth for all sectors of the UK economy. 
As part of the Clean Growth Strategy, the Government set out its commitment to 
CCUS. One of the commitments made as part of the Government’s new approach 
to CCUS was to establish a CCUS Cost Challenge Taskforce (the “Taskforce”) to 
inform and propose a strategic plan to Government for supporting the development 
of CCUS in the UK, in order to meet Government’s stated ambition of “having the 
option to deploy CCUS at scale during the 2030s, subject to costs coming down 
sufﬁ ciently”. The Taskforce was convened in January 2018 with over 40 leading 
experts from across industry and academia. 
CCUS infrastructure 
is key to unlocking 
huge clean growth 
potential in the UK 
and can contribute 
to a cost-effective 
pathway for 
reducing UK 
CO2 emissions. 
14 UK Climate Change Act, 2008. https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2008/27 
15 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, 2014. Climate Change 2014 Synthesis Report 
16 Committee on Climate Change, 2016. A strategic approach to Carbon Capture and Storage 
CCUS COST CHALLENGE TASKFORCE REPORT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12 
What is Carbon 
Capture Usage 
and Storage? 
CCUS is a method of mitigating the 
contribution of fossil fuel, industrial 
processes and other emissions to global 
warming by capturing and using or 
storing the carbon dioxide (CO2) before 
it is released into our atmosphere. 
The ﬁ rst stage of CCUS is the separation 
and capture of CO2 from emitters before 
it is released into the atmosphere. 
The CO2 can then be transported to be 
stored safely in offshore rock formations 
that are located deep underground. This 
is essentially the same process that has 
trapped naturally accumulated stores of 
gas and oil underground for millions of 
years. For smaller volumes of captured 
CO2, there are also opportunities for the 
captured CO2 to be utilised in a variety 
of industrial processes and transformed 
into new products. 
The UK’s North Sea gives us a unique 
potential to store large volumes of 
CO2. Analysis by the CCC states that 
the UK will need to store at least 60 
and potentially up to 180 MtCO2 per 
year by 2050. We are also developing 
ways to use the captured CO2 in a variety 
of industrial processes and to make new 
products which can drive the UK’s clean 
growth economy. 
As the world’s major institutions working 
on energy and climate change issues 
all agree, CCUS is critical for achieving 
the global emissions reduction targets. 
CCUS gives industry an opportunity to 
thrive in a future low carbon world, it can 
play a key role in decarbonising ‘difﬁ cult’ 
sectors, and with bioenergy, CCUS can 
achieve ‘negative emissions’ to remove 
CO2 from the atmosphere. 
Our Vision 
We, the members of the Taskforce, wholly support the 
Government’s ambition for CCUS. We want to ﬁ nd new 
ways to enable the UK to meet its domestic decarbonisation 
commitments at the lowest net cost while maximising the social 
and economic beneﬁts for the UK from this transition. Strategic 
investment in CCUS infrastructure now can deliver a low cost, 
low risk, multi-functional route for decarbonisation of the UK’s 
industrial, transport and heat sectors in addition to valuable 
services to the UK energy sector, including support for the 
growth of greenhouse gas removal (“GGR”) technologies. 
In our report, we have focused on areas where the public and 
private sectors can work in partnership. We have suggested a 
credible pathway to implement CCUS now and enable cost-
effective deployment in the UK during the 2030s. We believe 
this can be achieved by developing the cost structures and 
risk sharing proposed in this report. Moreover, as this industry 
advances, we expect to realise the potential signiﬁ cant 
reduction in the costs of CCUS projects through developing 
technology, viable business models, and from learning by 
doing. Our emphasis on shared infrastructure, economies of 
scale, and reducing the commercial risks, as well as continued 
investment in innovation, takes its inspiration from what has 
happened with offshore wind in the UK, where we have seen 
dramatic reductions in subsidies over the last ﬁve years. 
We see CCUS as giving the UK the opportunity to further 
develop clean growth industries, to improve productivity 
across the UK and to ensure that the UK is the best place 
to grow those industries which rely on CCUS to decarbonise. 
In short, CCUS can be a critical part of the infrastructure 
required to deliver clean growth in the UK. 
DELIVERING CLEAN GROWTH 
 
 
 
 
CCUS COST CHALLENGE TASKFORCE REPORT 
AEROVIEW OF THE GRANGEMOUTH 
PORT FACILITY FROM 2015 
Photograph reproduced with permission 
from INEOS. © INEOS Limited 2016 
13 
all rights reserved. 
 
 
14 
CCUS can be a critical part of the 
infrastructure that delivers multi-
service, multi-functional routes 
to cost-effectively decarbonise large 
sections of the UK economy and 
support the growth of greenhouse 
gas removal technologies. 
HISARNA CAST HOUSE. PRODUCTION RUNNER. 
HOT METAL FLOWS FROM THE FOREHEARTH 
INTO A TORPEDO LADLE 
Photo courtesy of Tata Steel. © Studio John de Konin 
DELIVERING CLEAN GROWTH 
15 
PART A: 
The CCUS 
Opportunity 
CCUS COST CHALLENGE TASKFORCE REPORT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16 
Why we need to act now 
Seizing the UK’s CCUS opportunity 
Several promising projects located within strategic clusters could be operational 
from the mid-2020s if supported by the actions that we recommend in this report17. 
These and the potential storage sites that the UK can develop are shown in 
Figure 1 to the right. 
Location of potential ﬁrst CCUS clusters and CO2 storage sites 
“We will work with the ongoing initiatives in Teesside, 
Merseyside, South Wales and Grangemouth to test the 
potential for development of CCUS industrial decarbonisation 
clusters”. – UK Government, Clean Growth Strategy 201718 
Teesside 
Teesside has a highly developed process 
industry and heavy manufacturing which 
is seeking to decarbonise. Recognised as 
a European Project of Common Interest 
(PCI) for its strategic importance to the 
UK and Europe, this is an area that could 
invest efﬁ ciently in CCUS and generate 
signiﬁ cant beneﬁts for the region19. 
Teesside can access suitable CO2 
storage sites in the Southern North Sea. 
The development of a CCUS cluster is 
being actively promoted by the Tees 
Valley Combined Authority which 
established the Teesside Collective and 
which, with UK Government funding, has 
set out how a CCUS cluster could be 
developed in the area. 
Humberside 
Humberside is the location of a wide 
range of heavy industrial plant, including 
oil reﬁ ning, steel manufacture, cement, 
chemicals and others, making it a potential 
location for a CCUS cluster. 
Humberside can access suitable CO2 
storage sites in the Southern North Sea 
and the area is linked to the industrial 
CCUS cluster at the Port of Rotterdam 
by a shortlisted PCI project. 
Merseyside 
The Merseyside area is the location 
of signiﬁ cant heavy industrial activity 
and power generation, including 
one of the UK’s large oil reﬁ neries 
and several CCGT stations. Further 
large manufacturing, including glass, 
chemicals, and paper industries, make 
this cluster a candidate for a CCUS 
cluster. Proximity to the Cheshire salt 
basin means that the area is also suited 
for the development of a hydrogen 
network with salt cavern storage. 
Merseyside can access suitable CO2 
storage sites in the East Irish Sea. 
Scotland 
The Scottish cluster is made up of 
St Fergus and Grangemouth areas. 
Grangemouth is the centre of the 
chemicals manufacturing and reﬁ nery 
industry and the largest concentration 
of CO2 emissions in Scotland. 
Grangemouth would be a candidate 
for a CCUS cluster in Scotland. 
St Fergus is a natural hub for CO2 
transport to offshore storage, given the 
potential for re-use of existing offshore 
pipelines and suitable CO2 storage sites 
in the Central North Sea. 
St Fergus is the landing point for around 
35% of all the natural gas used in the 
UK making it a potential location for 
future hydrogen production with CCUS. 
St Fergus also provides the potential for 
ship import or export of CO2 from the UK 
or Europe, via Peterhead Port, and the 
re-use of the Feeder 10 natural gas pipeline 
to bring CO2 up from Central Scotland. 
South Wales 
There is a large manufacturing base in 
South Wales (speciﬁ cally around Port 
Talbot and Swansea) which includes 
oil, steel, cement, hydrogen and 
chemicals industries, that are critical 
to the economy of Wales. This mix of 
industries and the presence of electricity 
generating power plants, using both gas 
and biomass, is ideal for the development 
of a CCUS and hydrogen cluster. 
Decarbonising the steel works will be 
important in preserving this industrial 
activity, and the UK manufacturing base 
that this supports. 
As there are no offshore CO2 storage 
sites in the immediate area, CO2 from the 
South Wales region would need to be 
sequestered through use as a feedstock 
or transported by ship for storage. 
17 Committee on Climate Change, 2018. An independent assessment of the UK’s Clean Growth Strategy: From ambition to action 
18 UK Government, 2017. The Clean Growth Strategy: Leading the way to a low carbon future 
19 Teesside Collective, 2017 (online) Teesside Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS) Transport Infrastructure Backed By European Commission. 
Available at http://www.teessidecollective.co.uk/teesside-carbon-capture-and-storage-ccs-transport-infrastructure-backed-by-european-
commission/ Accessed 29/06/18 
DELIVERING CLEAN GROWTH 
17 
Figure 1: UK’s potential CCUS clusters and CO2 storage sites 
Scottish cluster 
Industry located in cluster: 
• Chemicals: INEOS 
• Reﬁning: INEOS-PetroChina 
• Gas processing: Shell, Total, Esso 
Teesside cluster  
Industry located in cluster: 
• Chemicals: Lotte,  
CF Fertilisers, Sabic, 
BOC Linde, Sembcorp, 
ConocoPhillips 
Merseyside cluster 
Industry located in cluster: 
• Chemicals: CF Fertilisers, Inovyn 
• Reﬁning: Essar Oil (Stanlow) 
• Glass: Pilkington, Encirc 
South Wales cluster  
Industry located in cluster: 
• Steel: Tata 
• Reﬁning: Valero Energy 
Humberside 
cluster 
Industry located 
in cluster: 
• Power: Drax 
• Steel: Scunthorpe  
Steel Works 
• Reﬁning: Humber 
reﬁnery, Lindsey 
oil reﬁnery 
Industrial cluster 
CO2 Storage Potential 
Saline aquifer (conﬁned) 
Saline aquifer (open) 
Depleted Hydrocarbon ﬁelds 
Size : Mtonnes of CO2 storage 
100 
1000 
CCUS COST CHALLENGE TASKFORCE REPORT 
10 
18 
Urgency – we need to start now 
Figure 2: Chart to show required build rates of CCUS 
capacity, in three phases to 2050 
To meet the Government’s aim of 
Commercial deployment of 
CCUS to required scale in 2050
“having the option to deploy CCUS 
at scale during the 2030s, subject to 
200 
costs coming down sufﬁ ciently” we 
High 
need to start implementation as soon 
as possible, given the time needed by 
MtCO2 stored per year 
150 
industry to develop potential projects 
for deployment. The CCC, in their 2018 
Progress Report to Parliament20, indicate 
that the UK will need to store at least 60, 
and potentially well over 100 MtCO2, 
up to a maximum of 180 MtCO2 21 each 
year by 2050, if it is to meet the 2050 
100 
50 
Design, build, and 
Mid 
Option to scale 
in 2030s 
Low 
target under the Climate Change Act. 
operate two clusters 
We also recognise that to make this 
a success industry and Government 
need to work in partnership if the ﬁ rst 
CCUS cluster is to be operational by 
the mid-2020s. 
CCUS deployment growth 
and timescales 
Delivering an industry capable of 
storing at least 60, and potentially up 
to 180MTPA, will take considerable time 
and ambition. It needs to be supported 
by a consistent policy framework and 
investment. The chart to the right 
(Figure 3) shows actual and projected 
0 
2019 
2025 
2030 
2035 
2040 
2045 
2050 
Figure 3: Chart to show actual and projected experience curves 
of build rates of nuclear, offshore wind and CCUS in the UK. 
Analysis by CCUS Cost Challenge Taskforce 
200 
150 
experience curves of build rates of 
nuclear, offshore wind and CCUS in 
the UK. These are expressed in terms 
of the CO2 abated by each technology, 
and do not show subsequent plant 
closures. This illustrates the challenge 
MtCO2  per year 
100 
that will be faced by the UK if it chooses 
to develop a large scale CCUS industry 
by the 2050s. This is why the CCC 
has recommended that the ﬁ rst CCUS 
cluster is operational by 2026, with 
approximately 10 MtCO2 being stored 
each year by 2030, on the path to at 
least 20 MtCO2 each year by 2035. 
This staged build-out is crucial in order 
ﬁ rst to create an industry, to de-risk it, 
and then expand it to the required scale 
during the 2030s and onwards. 
50 
0 
1955 
1965 
1975 
1985 
1995 
2005 
2015 
2025 
2035 
2045 
2055 
CCUS High – CCC 
Projected New Nuclear – BEIS 2018 
Actual UK Offshore Wind (2000-2017) 
CCUS Mid 
Actual Magnox (1956-1971) 
Offshore Wind – Sandbag May 2018 
CCUS Low – CCC 
Actual AGR (1976-1989) 
Offshore Wind – Aura June 2017 
20 Committee on Climate Change, 2018, Reducing UK emissions – 2018 Progress Report to Parliament 
21 Upper limit of 180 MtCO2 per year by 2050: Committee on Climate Change, 2018, pers.comm. 29 June 
DELIVERING CLEAN GROWTH 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
“Our assessment 
is that deploying 
CCS at scale in the 
2030s will require 
deployment of CO2 
infrastructure and 
initial capture 
projects at a level 
of around 10 MtCO2 
per annum being 
captured and stored 
by 2030, on the path 
to at least 20 MtCO2 
per annum in 2035”. 
COMMITTEE ON CLIMATE CHANGE, 
2018 PROGRESS REPORT TO PARLIAMENT 
1 
Figure 4: Representation of a potential 
east coast CCUS network. © Energy 
Technologies Institute LLP 
The East 
Coast 
Study
22 
This extensive study modelled the 
beneﬁts and costs of investing in a 
CCUS industry in respect of plant 
and infrastructure down the whole 
of the east coast of the UK over the 
next 40 years. The gross societal 
and economic beneﬁts across this 
period were estimated at £160 billion, 
outweighing the investment costs of 
£34 billion by a factor of ﬁve times. 
This comprises: 
• £94 billion avoided costs of 
emissions – translating into more 
competitive product pricing and 
cash ﬂ ow for reinvestment. 
• £54 billion of increased domestic 
economic activity including 
investment in CCUS and the linked 
host plants as well as the impact of 
CCUS on the creation and retention 
of economic activity (and jobs) in 
the identiﬁed linked economies that 
might otherwise be lost without a 
decarbonisation solution. For some 
of the industries concerned (iron & 
steel, cement, fertilisers, chemicals 
and pharmaceuticals, reﬁning, 
natural gas processing, etc.) there 
is no alternative decarbonisation 
technology currently available. 
19 
• £9 billion positive balance of trade 
impact through the export of goods 
and services and provision of CO2 
storage services for imported 
third country CO2 (assumed up 
to 5 MtCO2 per year). 
• £5 billion in health and wellbeing 
beneﬁts based on data published 
or the economic value of the 
co-beneﬁts linked to avoided 
CO2 emissions. 
The analysis made so far is not 
exhaustive and indeed could have 
signiﬁcant upside potential. Not 
all linked economies have been 
evaluated – for example, enhanced 
oil recovery in the UKCS, which would 
add signiﬁcantly to the gross value 
added in the wider economy, along 
with wider employment potential 
for CCUS projects. The study also 
champions the linking of EU countries 
into the East Coast CCUS infrastructure 
(importing CO2) which could generate 
far more potential than the storage 
capacity of 5MTPA by 2060 assumed 
in relation to the UK. 
22 Summit Power, 2017. Clean Air, Clean Industry, Clean Growth: How Carbon Capture will 
Boost the UK Economy. 
CCUS COST CHALLENGE TASKFORCE REPORT 
Figure 5: The value of CCUS to the UK PLC 
Driving a clean growth economy in the 2030s 
Feeder Capture Projects 
Industry 
Power 
Decarbonised 
Decarbonised 
Industrial Products 
Electricity 
T&S  
Enabler 
Investment in 
CO2 transport 
and storage 
infrastructure 
Greenhouse 
gas removal 
technologies
CCUS ENABLES DECARBONISATION  
OF MANY SECTORS 
Creates new industry + innovation 
Steel 
Chemical 
Agriculture 
Potential to achieve  
Production 
Production 
net zero negative 
emissions using BECCS 
Cement 
Utilisation 
Lime 
and other greenhouse gas 
Production 
opportunities 
removal technologies 
Innovation & leadership opportunity for creating and providing low carbon products 
Innovation in creating recognised value/standards for low carbon certiﬁcation in industrial products 
Innovation in incentivising low carbon products with standards required for public and 
some private contracts 
Innovation for greenhouse gas removal technologies 
D R I V E S  D O W N  C O S T  
Value of CCUS: cost savings and economic benefits 
Creation of new markets for low carbon products 
Flexible/ 
drives investment, preserves & creates new jobs 
dispatchable 
and skills opportunities & revenues – positioning 
electricity 
the UK as a leader in growth industries 
to support a 
Decarbonisation of ‘hard to decarbonise’ sectors 
decarbonised grid 
T&S cost savings & economic benefits 
Reuse of existing 
Oil and gas skills 
Avoided decommissioning 
transport and 
retention and  
costs for oil and  
storage assets 
reskilling 
gas assets 
21 
Feeder Capture Projects 
Hydrogen 
Hydrogen fuelled 
power and balancing 
services for system
Decarbonised 
Industry 
Heat 
management 
Transport 
Gas 
Creates new industry + innovation 
Providing 
Replacing heating 
Transforming 
Hydrogen 
Hydrogen fuelled 
Hydrogen 
hydrogen as a 
systems with 
natural gas 
fuelled 
ships & ferries 
fuelled cars 
fuel for industry 
100% hydrogen 
networks to 
trains 
to replace fossil 
heating – domestic 
be hydrogen 
New hydrogen 
Hydrogen fuelled
fuels and for 
decarbonisation 
networks 
fuel cells production 
HGVs / large vehicles 
industrial heat 
and energy storage 
(buses / bin lorries) 
Innovation in  
Innovation in regulation of clean transport 
decarbonising 
Innovation in hydrogen production processes 
gas 
Innovation in hydrogen in transport services 
Innovation hubs for hydrogen fuel cells  
and for skills and knowledge 
Value of CCUS: cost savings and economic benefits 
Decarbonised gas 
Avoided 
Avoided 
Avoided 
supplies to create 
cost and social 
cost of rail 
full cost of 
a secure, ﬂexible, 
challenges of fully 
electriﬁcation 
electrifying 
low carbon 
electrifying homes or 
larger vechicles 
energy mix 
installing heat pumps 
T&S new industry & innovation 
CCUS ENABLES DECARBONISATION  
OF MANY SECTORS 
Innovation in transport 
Potential  
Global R&D 
Creation of new 
Potential  
Build up  
and storage processes  
for enhanced 
leadership in  
transportation and 
pan-European CO2 
offshore storage 
and technology 
oil recovery 
new industries 
storage assets 
storage services 
services sector 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
22 
Value and beneﬁts of CCUS 
CCUS can play a critical role 
in reducing CO2 emissions in the 
most cost-effective way, at the 
pace and scale required to meet 
our commitments 
The CCC’s assessment of the Clean 
Growth Strategy, published in January 
2018, stated that Government should 
not plan to meet the UK 2050 climate 
targets without CCUS23. This echoed 
analysis by the Intergovernmental Panel 
on Climate Change (“IPCC”) which 
showed that limiting global temperature 
increase to two degrees (the current 
international agreement is to achieve 
‘well below two degrees’) would be, 
on average, some 138% more expensive 
without CCUS and, indeed, in the 
majority of models, the target could 
not be achieved without CCUS24. 
Further reports from National Grid and 
the Energy Technologies Institute (ETI) 
analysing UK decarbonisation scenarios 
demonstrate that the least cost pathways 
to deliver the UK’s 2050 target require 
substantial deployment of CCUS25,26. 
Given the typical project development 
time of between ﬁve and eight years, 
decisions need to be taken by the 
early 2020s at the latest if this is to be 
achieved. If the UK is to commission the 
ﬁ rst CCUS clusters from the mid-2020s, 
the steps to unlock the value of CCUS 
need to be taken now. We recommend 
that this is achieved through a CCUS 
cluster-led deployment approach. 
RECOMMENDATION: 
Government to publish the 
CCUS Deployment Pathway by the 
end of 2018, including a commitment 
to have at least two carbon capture, 
usage and storage clusters operational 
from the mid-2020s. 
23 Committee on Climate Change, 2018. An independent assessment of the UK’s Clean Growth Strategy: From ambition to action 
24 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, 2014. Climate Change 2014 Synthesis Report 
25 National Grid, 2018. The Future of Gas: How gas can support a low carbon future 
26 Energy Technologies Institute (ETI), 2015. Building the UK Carbon Capture and Storage Sector by 2030 
Global CCUS developments and UK’s opportunity 
in a multi-billion pound CCUS market 
The last two decades have witnessed 
signiﬁ cant growth in the number of 
large scale CCUS projects that are 
operating or under construction around 
the world. Since 2000, this number has 
risen from four to over 2027. Often these 
developments have been stimulated 
through tax, planning conditions and 
availability of public funding. 
Yet, to deliver the Paris Agreement the 
deployment of CCUS must be scaled up 
dramatically and must be commercialised 
at an accelerated pace28. 
There are encouraging signs that 
international momentum on CCUS 
is increasing. The recent adaptations 
to the 45Q tax credit have already 
started to drive new interest in CCUS 
developments in the US29. In addition 
to the UK, European CCUS ambition is 
growing, driven by activity in Norway 
and the Netherlands. China also is 
developing several CCUS projects. 
The future CCUS market is estimated 
to be worth around £100 billion per 
year30. A market of this size will create 
huge opportunities in the supply of 
infrastructure and technology, provision 
of ﬁ nancial and professional services 
and the manufacturing of low carbon 
products. As a global leader in this 
market, the UK has the potential to 
be right at the heart of a growing and 
strengthening global industry that 
realises the beneﬁts and values of any 
investment for our economy, but we 
must act now, or risk being left behind. 
As the number of CCUS projects around 
the world continues to increase there 
will be opportunities for us to learn from 
other projects, thereby driving cost 
reduction. Developers of the Boundary 
Dam and Petra Nova CCS power plants 
in North America envision similar cost 
reductions of 20-30% for a second 
plant31. Those lessons are now available 
to us in the UK. The time to become a 
global CCUS leader is now. 
27 Global Carbon Capture and Storage Institute (GCCSI), 2018. (online) Large-scale CCS facilities Available at https://www.globalccsinstitute.com/ 
projects/large-scale-ccs-projects. Accessed 29/06/18 
28 International Energy Agency (IEA), 2017. Five Keys to Unlock CCS Investment 
29 IEA, 2018 (online) US budget bill may help carbon capture get back on track. Available at https://www.iea.org/newsroom/news/2018/march/ 
commentary-us-budget-bill-may-help-carbon-capture-get-back-on-track.html. Accessed 29/06/18 
30 CCSA & TUC, 2014. The economic beneﬁts of carbon capture and storage in the UK 
31 Global CCS Institute, 2014 (online), The future of carbon capture will focus on cost reduction. Available at https://www.globalccsinstitute.com/ 
insights/authors/RonMunson/2014/11/05/future-carbon-capture-will-focus-cost-reduction Accessed 27/06/18 
DELIVERING CLEAN GROWTH 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 
23 
Carbon8 Systems Ltd 
Accelerated Carbonation: 
Carbon capture and 
We have 
recommended 
that the fastest 
way for the UK to 
drive down costs 
and take advantage 
of the value that 
CCUS offers would 
be to deploy 
CCUS projects 
in clusters. 
use in action 
Carbon8 Systems Ltd can accelerate 
the UK’s options for using CO2 in 
construction products by capturing 
CO2 from industrial processes32. As 
acknowledged through peer review, 
Carbon8 is a world leader through 
its unique process and has received 
a number of awards including the 
Queen’s Award for Enterprise in 
2017. The process is commercialised 
within the UK, with interest from North 
America, India and Northern Europe. 
If begun now, plants could be built 
by the end of 2019, at sources of 
CO2 isolated from permanent CO2 
storage capabilities. 
How does it work? 
CO2 is captured directly from ﬂ ue gas 
from industrial sources, such as steel 
works, cement, or biomass plants. 
The CO2 is permanently sequestered 
through the carbonation of industrial 
residues, also produced onsite, and the 
manufacture of construction products. 
How does this project meet the 
CCTF aims on value of CCUS 
and the cost challenge? 
The process is scalable depending 
on the source of CO2 and the residue. 
For a full-scale plant treating 40,000 
tonnes of industrial residue per year, 
the capex is approximately £5m with 
a 3-5-year payback depending on 
the residue treated. Revenue for the 
process is generated from a gate fee 
for treating the residues and from sale 
of the product. 
CARBON8 AGGREGATES’ AVONMOUTH PLANT 
Photo courtesy of Carbon8 Aggregates Ltd 
32 Find out more about this case study at: www.c8s.co.uk 
CCUS COST CHALLENGE TASKFORCE REPORT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
24 
CCUS is required to support UK low carbon industrial competitiveness 
and attract new clean growth sectors to the UK 
The UK has a well-established North Sea oil and gas industry and networks. 
This expertise can be used to support the growth and development of CCUS 
opportunities and the creation of new clean growth jobs in the UK. 
According to recent research, every direct job in established high value industries 
supports up to four jobs in indirect employment33. Failure to deploy CCUS early 
increases the risk that these jobs and industries disappear from the economy and will 
affect places where these jobs are more concentrated (north of England, Wales and 
Scotland), causing further economic imbalance in the UK. With the right policy signals 
from Government, CCUS can help to ensure that the jobs of the skilled workforce are 
retained for the development of a new world leading industry. 
This helps to make CCUS attractive to existing industrial locations by helping to protect 
existing jobs and create new ones in new CCUS clusters. For example, analysis shows 
that developing a CCUS network in the Tees Valley could support over 1,000 direct and 
indirect jobs in the UK during the construction period, and a further 350 jobs, directly 
and indirectly associated with the operation and maintenance of the network34. 
With the right local incentives, industry can work with national, devolved, regional, 
and local Governments to drive the creation of new jobs and prosperity in communities 
near CCUS projects. 
The CCUS industry can also generate value through creating new industries, including 
in using CO2. Many of these uses also support decarbonisation through sequestering 
the CO2 in carbonised products such as cement and building aggregate35. The value 
of such products has signiﬁ cant potential as a route to cutting UK emissions, as well 
as supporting the commercialisation of carbon capture technologies and replacing 
carbon-intensive products, bringing with it new jobs and skills for the UK. 
RECOMMENDATION: Working with industry, Government to more fully 
assess value of CCUS to the wider UK economy (including in terms of 
utilising existing infrastructure, skills capacity, and in supporting opportunities 
for future clean growth and development). 
Strategic use of natural and legacy 
assets – reducing CCUS costs 
and potentially reducing 
decommissioning costs 
The UK beneﬁts from vast areas of safe 
and secure offshore CO2 storage36. This 
natural geological advantage is further 
bolstered by the depth of knowledge of 
this offshore area following many years 
of oil and gas activity, and recent efforts 
to appraise and publish UK CO2 storage 
data through the CO2 stored database 
and the supporting ETI report37. Projects 
should ensure that they make use of 
this signiﬁ cant data, which can reduce 
storage appraisal costs. 
The legacy of the UK oil and gas industry 
offers further potential cost advantages 
through the reuse of existing onshore and 
offshore infrastructure. In some cases, 
the repurposing of suitable gas pipelines 
(both on and offshore) can bring very 
substantial cost savings38. The Acorn CCS 
project in north east Scotland estimates 
a £750 million cost saving from the reuse 
of three offshore and one onshore gas 
pipelines (see case study) and the CCEP 
project (see case study) estimated that 
the reuse of Feeder 10 pipeline would 
save up to £440m of costs. Overall, the 
cumulative beneﬁts of reusing assets 
may exceed £500m of entry costs into 
CCUS regional clusters. The opportunity 
to reuse existing assets also applies to 
pipelines in the East Irish Sea. 
33 Turner et. al., 2018. Making the macroeconomic case for near term action on CCS in the UK? The current state of economy-wide modelling evidence 
34 Cambridge Econometrics, 2015. The Economic Impact of Developing a CCS Network in the Tees Valley 
35 Zero Emissions Platform, 2017. CCS and Europe’s Contribution to the Paris Agreement – Modelling least-cost CO2 reduction pathways 
36 Energy Technologies Institute, 2017. Taking stock of UK CO2 storage 
37 CO2 stored database (online) http://www.co2stored.co.uk/home/index 
38 ACT Acorn project (online) http://www.actacorn.eu 
DELIVERING CLEAN GROWTH 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 
25 
Avoiding decommissioning of offshore 
assets by repurposing them for CCUS 
may also provide a beneﬁt to the 
Exchequer, which shares up to 50% of 
the decommissioning liabilities. However, 
action is required to ensure that assets of 
strategic interest for CCUS deployment 
are preserved for CCUS, and industry and 
Government should work with the Oil and 
Gas Authority (“OGA”) to provide clarity 
on maintaining such assets. 
RECOMMENDATION: Industry 
and Government to identify 
North Sea and East Irish Sea oil and 
gas infrastructure at risk of being 
decommissioned in the next 
5-10 years which could be maintained 
as “strategic assets” for CCUS use 
in the future. A cross Governmental 
working group, including the OGA 
and the devolved administrations, 
to review these assets and include 
them in the CCUS Deployment 
Pathway to be published by the 
end of 2018. 
Acorn: a clean growth 
CCUS catalyst 
Acorn is a low cost, low risk CCUS 
project, designed to be built quickly, 
taking advantage of existing oil 
and gas infrastructure and a well 
understood offshore CO2 storage site39. 
The project is located at the St Fergus 
Gas Terminal – an active industrial site 
where around 35% of all the natural 
gas used in the UK comes onshore. 
Acorn can act as a catalyst for 
supporting growth and creation of new 
industrial opportunities in the north 
east of the UK and beyond through 
creation of a major hydrogen and CCUS 
hub at St Fergus; developing the port 
of Peterhead to be an international 
CO2 storage hub in the Central North 
Sea. With the right support, Acorn 
could be operating in the early 2020s. 
How does it work, and does it help 
to reduce the costs of CCUS? 
Initially, Acorn will use the easy to 
capture CO2 from within the St Fergus 
Gas Terminal, but the project is 
designed to support rapid growth for 
other large scale emission sources in 
the region. Acorn has been awarded 
European Project of Common Interest 
(PCI) status, making its infrastructure 
elements eligible for funding under the 
Connecting Europe Fund (CEF). 
Acorn is currently assessing three large 
gas pipelines which can be repurposed 
to take CO2 offshore, and an onshore 
gas pipeline that connects St Fergus 
to Central Scotland. These pipes 
alone offer the UK CCUS industry 
savings in the region of £750 million 
in capital costs when compared to 
commissioning new pipes. Upgrades 
to Peterhead Port would allow national 
and international shipping of CO2. 
The Acorn CO2 storage site is part 
of a huge sandstone formation 
(the Captain Sandstone), located 
2km below the North Sea seabed. 
It is a well known site that beneﬁts 
from extensive performance data from 
recent oil and gas activity and has been 
thoroughly examined to ensure safe 
and permanent storage of CO2. 
The Acorn feasibility work has been 
funded by the EU, UK and Scottish 
governments. Industrial partners have 
also expressed interest in funding 
and progressing the project, linking 
it to hydrogen generation, subject to 
clear government policy or speciﬁc 
project support. 
Figure 6: The Acorn project will make use of the UK’s built and natural assets 
39 Find out more about this case study at: www.actacorn.eu 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
26 
CCUS deployment also offers the UK 
the opportunity to develop its own 
market leading CO2 storage services 
industry. Given the UK’s potential for CO2 
storage in the North Sea, this gives the 
UK an opportunity to build up services 
for European emitters. In doing so, the 
UK can also lead multilateral efforts to 
create a ﬂ exible CO2 storage market, 
providing multiple storage options and 
greater system resilience. To enable 
this development, the industry and 
Government should work together 
to ensure that the London Protocol 
amendment is ratiﬁ ed. 
RECOMMENDATION: Industry 
and Government to promote 
international cooperation, including 
accelerating the option of shipping CO2 
across international borders to enable 
the development of pan-European CO2 
storage services. 
“CCUS is an 
important 
technology 
for industrial 
decarbonisation, 
particularly for 
the cement, 
chemicals, oil 
reﬁning and iron 
& steel sectors”. 
THE UK’S INDUSTRIAL 
DECARBONISATION AND ENERGY 
EFFICIENCY ACTION PLANS, 
OCTOBER 2017 
With the use of existing infrastructure, there may also be scope to use steady streams 
of CO2 for enhanced oil recovery (“EOR”) from mature assets, allowing for an extension 
in their productive life40. 
This would have beneﬁts to the UK economy in terms of taxable revenues as well as 
the beneﬁts derived from retention of skills and decommissioning beneﬁts (see above). 
However, we recognise that there may be policy and economic reasons that limit the 
EOR opportunity. 
CCUS offers a growth opportunity for a pan-European CO2 storage services 
sector 
The Zero Emissions Platform recommends developing CCUS on a European scale 
in clusters and estimates that the value of CCUS to the EU could exceed €1 trillion 
between 2017 and 2050 (where CCUS could be worth more than €50 billion each 
year thereafter)41. 
Given the UK’s extensive potential CO2 offshore storage42, we stand to beneﬁt 
from offering the North Sea as the chosen location for CO2 storage from European 
CCUS projects, a capability which Norway has also begun to develop. There is 
also signiﬁ cant potential to collaborate with other countries on shared storage 
infrastructure, whether for permanent storage of CO2 shipped to the UK or for the 
export of UK goods and services in this sector. Storing CO2 from other countries would 
help further drive down the cost of building any new T&S assets through deriving third 
party revenue, subject to the ratiﬁ cation of the London Protocol amendment. 
CCUS offers a practical way of achieving deep emission reductions from 
the UK’s industrial sector 
The industrial sector is responsible for nearly one quarter of the world’s annual 
greenhouse gas emissions43. Several industry sectors produce high volumes of CO2 
not just from burning fossil fuels for energy, but as an intrinsic part of the production 
process. For example, 70% of CO2 emissions from cement come from the chemical 
process of calcining calcium carbonate rather than energy use44. Sectors such as steel, 
cement and some chemical and fertiliser manufacturing, have no means of making 
deep emission reductions without using some form of CCUS technology. 
Consumer-facing companies are already under pressure from their customers to show 
the environmental impact of their products. Deploying CCUS can lower the carbon 
footprint of industrial products. As we have suggested in Part C: Implementation, the 
UK has an opportunity to develop new standards and certiﬁ cation for low carbon 
industrial products through a ‘decarbonised product mark’. With the right policy 
incentives UK CCUS clusters can make and keep our existing heavy industries 
competitive in a low carbon world, whilst also attracting international investors looking 
for ways to meet their needs for heavy industry in an environmentally responsible way45. 
40 SCCS, 2015. CO2 Storage and Enhanced oil recovery in the North Sea 
41 Zero Emissions Platform, 2017. CCS and Europe’s Contribution to the Paris Agreement – Modelling least-cost CO2 reduction pathways 
42 Energy Technologies Institute, 2017. Taking stock of UK CO2 storage 
43 Global CCS Institute (online) Understanding CCS: Industrial CCS. Available at https://www.globalccsinstitute.com/understanding-ccs/industrial-ccs 
Accessed 29/06/18 
44 Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy, 2017. Cement sector: industrial decarbonisation and energy efﬁciency action plan 
45 Benton, 2015. Decarbonising British Industry: why industrial CCS clusters are answer 
DELIVERING CLEAN GROWTH 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4 
27 
Decarbonising power 
CCUS can provide baseload or ﬂ exible 
power in a sector which, in the coming 
decades, will be increasingly dominated 
by intermittent renewable technologies. 
Unlike, for example, wind or solar, gas-
or biomass-ﬁ red generation with CCUS 
is “ﬂexible” or “dispatchable”, meaning 
electricity output can be adjusted to meet 
changes in electricity demand. Evidence 
from projects such as FlexEVAL “shows 
the particular value of ﬂexible CCS to the 
UK’s electricity system and quantiﬁ es that 
ﬂexible CCS allows the integration of a 
greater amount of renewable energy than 
would be otherwise possible”46. 
The UK Energy Research Centre estimates 
the cost of renewables intermittency 
as £10/MWh in 2030, rising thereafter47. 
If the electricity system is not sufﬁ ciently 
ﬂexible to accommodate high renewable 
capacity, low carbon ﬂ exible generation 
with CCUS is one option which can 
reduce system costs48. It is the 
Taskforce’s view that CCUS and 
renewables complement rather than 
compete with each other and CCUS 
has value by potentially enabling 
greater integration of renewables 
in to the system. 
The ETI has developed a framework 
for comparing the value for money of 
power generation technologies on a level 
playing ﬁ eld basis (i.e. taking account of 
unpriced system impacts, externalities 
and the value of risk transfers in existing 
market arrangements). This suggests 
that CCUS for power projects can offer 
strong value for money for UK consumers 
and taxpayers49. 
46 Mac Dowell et. al., 2017. IEAGHG Report 
2017/09 – The FlexEVAL project. “Valuing 
ﬂexibility in CCS power plants” 
47 Heptonstall et. al., 2017. A systematic 
review of the evidence on the costs 
and impacts of intermittent electricity 
generation technologies – 2016 update 
48 Imperial College London and NERA 
Economic Consulting, 2015. Value of 
Flexibility in a Decarbonised Grid and 
System Externalities of Low carbon 
Generation Technologies 
49 Frontier Economics, 2018. A framework for 
assessing the value for money of electricity 
technologies: a report for the Energy 
Caledonia Clean 
Energy Project 
Summit Power’s Caledonia Clean 
Energy Project50 at Grangemouth will 
generate up to 1.3GW of low carbon 
power using natural gas as a fuel. This 
project has completed its feasibility 
study, conﬁrming technical feasibility, 
and is deliverable by 2025. A potential 
storage site and transportation 
network that can be re-purposed has 
been identiﬁed. The project will seek 
a CFD for electricity generated and 
contracts to govern other commercial 
arrangements. 
How does it work? 
The project proposes a combined-
cycle gas turbine (CCGT) plant with 
post combustion capture, with net 
power output up to 1.3GW, with the 
proportion of CO2 captured over 90%. 
The equivalent strike price for the 
plant is expected to be between £80-
£90/MWh, subject to the commercial 
models adopted in the UK. The 
majority of Scottish CO2 emissions are 
located close to the project around 
the Firth of Forth, presenting an 
opportunity to use the project as a 
catalyst for industrial CO2 capture in 
the Scottish cluster. 
95% of the required pipelines for CO2 
transport and storage already exist. 
Short new connections are required to 
an existing onshore pipeline running 
to St Fergus. Repurposing existing 
infrastructure represents a saving of up 
to £440m in capital costs compared to 
commissioning new pipelines. 
An estimated total storage capacity 
of 54,000 MtCO2 has been identiﬁed 
in the UK Central and Northern North 
Sea formations. The Captain sandstone 
formation has been appraised as a 
store, and represents a low risk area 
due to the knowledge and experience 
gained from developing and operating 
adjacent oil & gas production. 
How does this project meet the 
CCTF aims on value of CCUS 
and the cost challenge? 
A plant of this nature could be a 
global ﬁrst for the UK, offering ﬂ exible 
low carbon electricity to support 
grid resilience. There will also be 
signiﬁcant cost savings associated 
with deployment using existing 
infrastructure. 
Technologies Institute 
50 Find out more about this case study at: https://summitpower.com/projects/carbon-capture/ 
CCUS COST CHALLENGE TASKFORCE REPORT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
28
Hydrogen economy 
Supply of low carbon hydrogen provides an alternative to the electriﬁ cation of heat, 
transport and industry, though it is recognised that there is no broad consensus 
on the best route to follow in the long term. National Grid looks to a future where 
the UK is producing hydrogen at scale, with natural gas and CCUS51 and some 
reports have concluded that hydrogen may be the most cost-effective route to 
decarbonisation which, if proven, means that hydrogen could play a very signiﬁ cant 
role in the future52,53. Currently, reformation of natural gas using CCUS is thought to 
be the most cost-effective route for production of low carbon hydrogen at scale54. 
The use of hydrogen provides potential ways to decarbonise domestic heating. 
The “H21 Leeds City Gate” Northern Gas Network project (see case study) 
describes the potential for hydrogen to be used to signiﬁ cantly decarbonise 
parts of the existing gas usage, with the conversion of the gas distribution network 
to hydrogen – though demonstration is still required to prove the feasibility and 
safety of hydrogen conversion. 
CCUS could also be an enabler for the production of low carbon hydrogen for use in 
the transport sector, including trains, HGVs, and shipping. Hydrogen HGVs and trains 
are already operating in countries such as Japan and Germany and hydrogen trains 
could avoid the need for costly and disruptive rail electriﬁ cation or bi-modal trains. 
The reduction of emissions in the maritime sector is an increasing priority, with the 
United Nations International Maritime Organization strategy published in April 2018 
on the reduction of CO2 emissions from ships consistent with the Paris Agreement 
temperature goals55. Hydrogen fuelled ships are one of the options that could deliver 
decarbonisation in this sector. 
51 National Grid, 2018. Future of Gas: How gas can support a low carbon future 
52 Northern Gas Networks, 2016. H21, Leeds City Gate Project Report 
53 Parliamentary Advisory Group on Carbon Capture and Storage, 2016. Lowest Cost 
Decarbonisation for the UK: The Critical Role of CCS 
54 Speirs et. al. 2017, Sustainable Gas Institute White Paper. A greener gas grid: what are the options? 
55  As adopted by United Nations International Maritime Organization in April 2018. 
http://www.imo.org/en/MediaCentre/PressBrieﬁ ngs/Pages/06GHGinitialstrategy.aspx 
Greenhouse Gas Removal 
(GGR) Technologies 
CCUS infrastructure is a prerequisite for 
many well-developed GGR technologies, 
including BECCS and direct air capture, 
which can deliver negative emissions. 
Through these technologies, functioning 
CCUS infrastructure will therefore be 
critical to enable these GGR technologies 
to be deployed to support a move to a 
net zero carbon economy, compensating 
for the residual ‘hard to decarbonise’ 
sectors such as marine transport, 
aviation and agriculture. 
DELIVERING CLEAN GROWTH 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
5 
29 
Tata Steel: decarbonised 
A PIPELINE TRANSPORTS CO2 FROM 
THE QUEST UNIT TO INJECTION 
SITES FOR SAFE AND PERMANENT 
UNDERGROUND STORAGE. 
SCOTFORD UPGRADER, NEAR FORT 
SASKATCHEWAN (NORTHEAST OF 
EDMONTON). ALBERTA IN JUNE 2015 
Philip Chin (all rights assigned, 
except external advertising, to Shell 
International Ltd in perpetuity) 
steel project 
Key beneﬁ ts/aims 
The Tata Steel project concept 
showcases decarbonising the steel 
production process, driving clean 
growth in the UK steel industry ahead 
of competitors and exploiting the 
nation’s geographically favourable 
CCUS potential. A world leading low 
carbon steel industry in the UK will 
slash the embedded emissions within 
our products and increase the value 
and proﬁtability of the sector. 
How does it work? 
The chemical reactions in steelmaking 
produce large volumes of CO2, CO and 
hydrogen. Tata Steel has invested in a 
£75 million technology demonstrator, 
HISARNA56, based in the Netherlands, 
which will reduce CO2 emissions 
by 20% and emit nearly pure CO2, 
thereby driving down the cost of 
implementing CCUS. It has been 
calculated that HISARNA technology, 
plus a CCUS system, would produce 
an 80% reduction in CO2 emissions. 
With increasing global demand for our 
modern, high value steel in products 
such as cars, batteries and low carbon 
buildings, we expect our steel to be 
required well beyond 2050 and can 
therefore provide a guaranteed CO2 
source and an ideal anchor for any 
CCUS project. 
How does this project meet the 
CCTF aims on value of CCUS 
and the cost challenge? 
By linking Tata Steel’s works at 
Port Talbot with other South Wales 
industrial CO2 emitters, a cluster with 
~18 MtCO2 emissions could be created. 
This includes an existing large scale 
hydrogen generating plant. This 
cluster could add signiﬁcant value 
to the UK’s steel, cement, oil and 
chemical products and create new 
low carbon chemicals (through CCU), 
ensuring secure, highly skilled jobs for 
the region and exportable knowledge. 
This project opens new pathways 
to carbon recycling and CCUS, that 
are already being accelerated by 
competitor steel-producing nations 
in the EU. New chemical processes 
and proofs of concept can be 
demonstrated to the world to secure 
UK-based supply chains and avoid 
reliance upon potentially inferior and 
high CO2 imports. 
Figure 7: Steel at the heart of a ‘Circular Economy’ 
Carbon Recycling Industry 
NEW CO2 
RECYCLING 
INDUSTRY 
New Low  
Emission Products 
56 Find out more about this case study at: https://www.tatasteeleurope.com/en/ 
sustainability/hisarna 
Expansion of 
Renewable 
Energy 
‘End of Use’ 
Waste Processing 
as carbon sources 
Plastics, Paints, Fuels,  
Base Chemicals 
Hydrogen for 
Transport and CCU 
Coal 
Iron ore 
Iron and Steelmaking 
CO2 
CLEANING 
CO2 
STORAGE 
Waste Carbon 
Sources 
Globally 
competitive 
low 
emission 
steel 
product 
Secure supply 
chain to valued 
UK and global 
customers 
Scrap Recycling 
Essential 
low carbon 
infrastructure 
CCUS COST CHALLENGE TASKFORCE REPORT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
30 
Wider beneﬁts of CCUS – GVA, 
health and global leadership 
There have been several studies which 
consider the beneﬁts to the wider 
economy of deploying CCUS. These 
studies all show material economic 
beneﬁts and job creation, both regionally 
and nationally. A study by AMION 
Consulting into the economics of the 
HyNet project anticipates that it will 
result in 5,979 jobs for the North West 
and generate cumulative Gross Value 
Added (GVA) gains to 2050 of £16.9 
billion for the North West and £30.5 
billion for the UK57. Similarly, a proposed 
CCUS network in the Tees Valley is 
estimated to provide an annual increase 
of around £85 million in GVA in the UK 
over 2021-2024, including a £30 million 
annual increase in direct value added to 
the region; a further £20 million annual 
increase in direct value added to the rest 
of the UK, and an additional £35 million 
increase in value added in the UK due 
to indirect effects58. 
CCUS can also contribute towards 
improving air quality through enabling 
hydrogen for heavy goods transport. 
The beneﬁts of CO2 emissions reductions 
in Europe have been estimated to be 
around €24/tCO2, by a WHO led study59. 
The deployment of CCUS can give the 
UK an opportunity to be a global R&D 
leader in the CCUS industry. Across 
the UK there are businesses and 
innovators with the potential to lead the 
development of CCUS60, including the 
Carbon Capture Machine, developed at 
Aberdeen University. Econic Technologies 
in Macclesﬁ eld, and Carbon8 in Norfolk, 
are creating new value from CO2 
feedstocks. Furthermore, companies such 
as Goodwins in Stoke-on-Trent are key 
parts of the supply chain for emerging 
technologies like NET Power’s Allam 
Cycle. This activity is further reinforced 
by the commitment of organisations 
such as Total in the oil and gas sector 
to allocate increasing proportions of 
research and development spend to 
CCUS. It is the view of all members of 
the Taskforce that CCUS presents an 
opportunity for the UK to show world 
leadership in the CCUS industry, 
with UK companies at the forefront. 
RECOMMENDATION: Industry 
and Government to work with 
the CCUS Council to monitor and 
recommend ways to maintain UK’s 
leadership in CCUS nationally and 
internationally. 
57 Amion Consulting, 2018. Potential Economic Impacts of the HyNet North West Project 
58 Cambridge Econometrics, 2015. The Economic Impact of Developing a CCS Network in the Tees Valley 
59 World Health Organization, 2013, Health risks of air pollution in Europe – HRAPIE project 
60 David Nevicato, 2018 (online). A collaborative approach to CCUS technology development. Available at https://www.Governmenteuropa.eu/ 
ccus-technology-development/84438/ Accessed 29/06/18 
NATURAL POWER’S HEALTH & SAFETY 
PROJECT MANAGEMENT TEAM 
Photo courtesy of Natural Power 
DELIVERING CLEAN GROWTH 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6 
31 
HyNet North West 
England Project 
With the right support, the HyNet 
Project61 will produce and supply 
decarbonised hydrogen to industry 
and (as a blend) to households, abating 
over 1.1 MtCO2 each year. Subsequent 
extensions within the North West will 
include supply to additional industrial 
sites, for ﬂ exible power generation, 
and for fuelling of buses, trains and 
HGVs. All CO2 from H2 production 
will be stored at the Liverpool Bay 
and Morecambe Bay ﬁelds, which are 
of sufﬁcient capacity to expand and 
accommodate further CCUS projects. 
The project creates extendable 
CCUS and hydrogen distribution 
infrastructure abating material CO2 
at lower cost than alternatives. The 
project decarbonises energy intensive 
industry (some of which has no viable 
alternative option), households and 
businesses, the transport sector 
(including buses, HGVs and trains), and 
can provide the ﬂ exible power needed 
to balance intermittent renewables. 
How does it work? 
Hydrogen is produced from natural 
gas, with CO2 captured as part of the 
same process. The hydrogen is then 
piped to energy intensive industries 
and blended in to the local gas 
network, up to approximately 15%. 
The project will reuse existing onshore 
and offshore pipeline infrastructure, 
which will signiﬁcantly reduce costs 
when compared to commissioning new 
pipelines. Initially, the project will store 
over 1.4 MtCO2 each year, which will 
be injected into the Hamilton gas ﬁeld 
(125 MtCO2 capacity). Extensions to the 
project will involve the nearby similarly 
sized Lennox gas ﬁeld, whilst a further 
1 Gt CO2 of capacity is available at the 
nearby Morecambe Bay ﬁelds. 
How does this project meet the 
CCTF aims on value of CCUS 
and the cost challenge? 
The Capex estimate for the initial 
project is £920 million, with a cost 
of abatement of £114 per tonne of 
CO2. Subsequent extensions to the 
project, which use the same CCUS 
infrastructure, and potentially lower 
cost fuels, will signiﬁcantly reduce 
this. Subject to agreement with the 
regulator and Government, from 2021, 
costs can be shared across all gas 
consumers by including them as an 
allowable cost in the regulated 
asset base. 
Figure 8: HyNet North West England Project at a glance 
61 Find out more about this case study at: https://hynet.co.uk/ 
CCUS COST CHALLENGE TASKFORCE REPORT 
 
 
 
 
DELIVERING CLEAN GROWTH 
Photo: Ian Jackson, all rights assigned, except external 
advertising assigned to Shell International Ltd in perpetuity 
32 
WORKERS STAND IN FRONT OF THE QUEST CARBON CAPTURE 
AND STORAGE UNIT AT SHELL SCOTFORD NEAR EDMONTON, 
ALBERTA (SHELL SCOTFORD, NOVEMBER 6, 2015) 
 
 
33 
CCUS COST CHALLENGE TASKFORCE REPORT 
Developing 
a Pipeline of 
Financeable 
UK Projects 
PART B: 
 
 
 
34 
The Taskforce’s view is that with viable 
business models in place and clear 
Government and industry commitments 
to the policy framework, CCUS projects 
can be ﬁnanced through private investment. 
However, developing CCUS projects is 
capital intensive and the cost of ﬁ nancing 
will be directly related to risk allocation. 
Experience from other sectors shows that 
a reduction in the cost of capital, supported 
by an appropriate risk allocation framework, 
could be a signiﬁcant component of future 
cost reduction in CCUS as a whole. 
The private sector is able to deliver CCUS, 
if it is operating within a well understood 
risk allocation framework. The technology 
and processes for CCUS are well understood 
and are already deployed at commercial 
scale globally. 
DELIVERING CLEAN GROWTH 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
35 
Allocation of risks 
For CCUS projects, the private sector can 
bear the majority of the risks. However, 
there are also some risks – largely those 
CCUS-related risks associated with 
long term CO2 storage – which should 
be initially shared by Government and 
industry and transferred to the private 
sector as the CCUS sector matures. 
As requested by the Minister for Energy 
and Clean Growth, the Taskforce has 
sought to identify the irreducible core 
of risk – those low probability but high 
impact risks – which the private sector, 
at least initially, cannot price or take and 
where, as a result, it may be better value 
for money for the Government to hold. 
It is worth noting that with experience 
and increasing maturity of a UK CCUS 
industry, a number of what today we 
consider irreducible risks, may become 
more acceptable to the ﬁ nance and 
insurance markets and could also reduce 
or be dropped over time. However, 
managing the irreducible risks is crucial 
to starting the CCUS industry in the 
absence of any compelling commercial 
rationale for the private sector to take 
these risks now. 
The irreducible core set of risks identiﬁ ed 
by the Taskforce are: 
Political risk: Government needs to 
provide long term policy stability to 
incentivise the private sector to make 
long term investment decisions in 
respect of CCUS. 
Cross-chain risk: CCUS projects 
are made up of several distinct but 
interdependent components (capture, 
transport and storage) due to the 
differing nature of the process involved. 
Cross-chain risk is frequently interpreted 
as a failure of one of these components 
to deliver on their obligations and 
in doing so, preventing the project 
performing as a whole. 
Our suggestion is therefore that 
Government consider reviewing the 
split-chain model for CCUS. In the split-
chain model, the risk of impacts on the 
revenue of either one or other element 
of the chain not being available is not 
borne by the sponsors of the relevant 
portion of the chain. For the capture 
plant, for example, this would continue 
to receive revenue if it was available to 
operate but unable to operate due to 
the store being unavailable. For the T&S 
enabler (see section ‘Project Delivery – 
CCUS Clusters’) this would mean that the 
Catalyst project would still be required to 
pay the T&S fee even where the catalyst 
was unavailable. We also recognise that 
cross-chain risk may be a lesser issue as 
the CCUS industry develops. 
Stranded asset risk: In the event that 
there is no capture project(s) the store 
would need to be permanently closed 
and any asset decommissioned. If the 
store was permanently unavailable 
there would need to be some form 
of termination compensation payable 
to the capture project(s). 
CO2 leakage risk: CO2 leakage or 
migration risk is a low probability, 
high impact risk as there is a requirement 
to pay for CO2 leakage at the prevailing 
EU-ETS allowance price. The lack 
of certainty over the price prevailing 
at the time of leakage makes the 
risk unquantiﬁ able. 
Uninsurability of CO 2 storage liability: 
We believe that the industry is able to 
bear a proportion of the CO2 leakage 
risk and that this self-insurance can be 
supplemented by additional cover from 
the insurance markets as part of the 
overall cover for the project and indeed 
this has been the approach proposed 
by a number of previous projects62. 
There are limitations of the current 
insurance market, including the capacity 
of the market (which could be expected 
to increase over time) and the short term 
nature of insurance policies, which may 
mean that obtaining insurance following 
a claim could prove impossible or 
exorbitantly expensive. 
RECOMMENDATION: Industry 
and Government to develop and 
consult with the ﬁ nance community 
on an agreed risk allocation for CCUS 
projects through the Review of CCUS 
Delivery and Investment Frameworks. 
62 https://www.gov.uk/Government/collections/carbon-capture-and-storage-knowledge-sharing 
CCUS COST CHALLENGE TASKFORCE REPORT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
36 
Financing CCUS 
It is generally true that given the right 
framework, clean energy projects can 
represent an attractive asset class for the 
commercial bank market. 
The commercial bank market has 
previously been willing to engage with 
the CCUS industry (e.g. the White Rose 
project), suggesting that banks were 
willing to ﬁ nance a CCUS project with 
a complex commercial structure with 
relatively well-deﬁ ned risk sharing63. 
Whilst encouraging, failure to proceed 
with the project means that the 
bankability of the structure and risk 
allocation was never fully proven. 
Green bonds: There is a rapidly growing 
green bond market and other green 
lending measures; these were highlighted 
and recommended in the Green Finance 
Taskforce Report64 and may be suitable 
for CCUS projects, although the risk 
allocation will need to be considered 
as in many cases bond investors can be 
more risk averse. The evaluation process, 
monitoring and reporting requirements 
for green bonds also need to be fully 
understood and complied with. 
63 Department for Business, Energy and 
Industrial Strategy, 2016 (online) Available 
at Carbon Capture and Storage knowledge 
sharing 
https://www.gov.uk/Government/ 
collections/carbon-capture-and-storage-
knowledge-sharing Accessed 29/06/18 
64 Green Finance Taskforce, 2018. 
Accelerating Green Finance: A report 
to Government by the Green Finance 
Taskforce 
Key features that a CCUS 
Green Bond should meet 
(based on the ICMA green 
bond principles): 
Process for project evaluation and selection: based on criteria 
guided by the requirements that an issuer of a green bond 
should outline the process it follows when determining eligibility 
of an investment using Green Bond proceeds and outline any 
impact objectives it will consider. 
Use of proceeds: requirement that an issuer of a green bond 
must use the funds raised to ﬁ nance eligible CCUS activities 
which produce clear environmental beneﬁts. 
Management of proceeds: requirements that a green bond 
should be tracked within the issuing organisation with 
a declaration of how unallocated funds will be handled. 
Reporting: annual reporting to the bond investors on the 
use of bond proceeds using quantitative and/or qualitative 
performance indicators, where feasible. 
DELIVERING CLEAN GROWTH 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
37 
Engaging the ﬁ nance community: Government and industry need to engage early 
with the ﬁ nancing community to build up trust and conﬁ dence in the immediate 
opportunities for CCUS projects in the UK, ensuring that the early projects meet the 
requirements of the ﬁ nance community. 
This engagement should consider the context in which potential ﬁ nanciers might 
provide ﬁ nance as set out in Table 1 below. 
Table 1: Drivers for the ﬁ nancing community 
Financing 
Source 
Rationale for 
engagement 
Driver 
Now? 
Driver in 
the future? 
Comment 
Equity 
Legal obligation 
No 
? 
Permit/consent requirement for O&G is an example, 
as is FGD and other measures for thermal plant 
in the past. 
Financial incentive 
No 
? 
Norway (tax incentive) has demonstrated this can 
stimulate CCUS as has the availability of an EOR 
revenue stream. EU-ETS has failed – price uncertainty 
and exemptions. 
Competitive pressure 
No 
? 
None from the demand side. Supply side interested 
in equipment supply rather than CCUS. 
Viable technical solution 
Yes 
Yes 
Technology available in more or less proven form 
although performance may need to be proven in 
integration and at scale. 
Long term opportunity 
? 
? 
Can drive equity investment from the technology/ 
(for supply chain) 
equipment suppliers to kick start the market. 
Proﬁtability – attractive risk 
No 
? 
Essential (fundamental) for successful commercial 
reward balance 
development of the industry but far from clear currently. 
Commercial 
Favourable policy environment 
No 
? 
No clear policy environment, currently undermined 
Bank Debt 
further by failed competitions. 
Long term business opportunity 
No 
? 
Financial institutions like to see a long term business 
opportunity for any new business – ongoing deal ﬂ ow. 
Scale (in debt terms) 
No 
? 
Signiﬁcant capital investment and implied debt 
funding opportunity. 
Favourable risk allocation 
No 
? 
No bankable risk allocation has yet been agreed 
for any commercial-scale project. 
Relationship rationale 
? 
? 
In a new industry, banks focus heavily on relationship 
clients for conﬁdence in the opportunity. 
ECAs and 
To a certain extent the ECA and multilateral requirements are similar to those of the banks but with the additional 
multilaterals 
focus on national content and risk allocation, where they provide commercial risk cover. 
RECOMMENDATION: Industry and Government to engage with the ﬁnance community and the Green Finance Taskforce 
to establish the agreed parameters for debt and equity (and any new green ﬁnancing mechanisms) for CCUS projects 
(including accreditation requirements for a green bond, and a tax credit option). 
CCUS COST CHALLENGE TASKFORCE REPORT 
38 
Figure 9: Cost Reductions and Savings 
“Carbon capture and storage (CCS) is part of the cost-effective pathway for an emissions 
reduction of 80% by 2050, and its absence could double the cost of achieving that 
reduction. CCS becomes even more important for deeper reductions by 2050 and is 
essential to reach net zero emissions, committed to under the Paris Agreement”.* 
CCUS CAN CREATE NEW REVENUES, SKILLS AND SERVICES 
Creation of new jobs 
and private sector 
investment in 
transportation and 
storage assets 
with CCUS. 
Export opportunities 
and development 
ofnew UK oil & gas 
infrastructure skills. 
Values/Revenues 
from balancingan 
overall energy system 
increasinglydominated 
by intermittent 
technologies. 
Creation of CO2 
storage services for 
pan-European assets. 
Attraction of new industrial 
developments in low 
carbon chemicals and 
steel to clusters can grow 
regional and national 
economies. 
Incentive for industry 
to galvanise innovation 
in processed and new 
technologies will keep 
UK’s global leadership. 
Creation of revenue 
models for hydrogen 
and industrial CCS 
projects will develop 
these industries. 
Development of a 
world leading hydrogen 
economycan avoid cost o f 
electriﬁcation in multiple 
sectors and enables 
decarbonisation ofheat, 
transport and industry. 
Potential revenue for EOR 
“CCS is of critical importance to meeting the UK’s carbon targets at least cost”. 
COST REDUCTIONSAND SAVINGS ACHIEVABLE WITH CCUS 
Act now for these 
cost reductions 
Retention andrepurposing 
ofexistin gassets reduces capital 
cost of deployment. 
Early deployment retains jobs 
and skills in the Oil and Gas sector 
reducingcosts o freskillin g. 
Deployment of hydrogen fuelled 
heatingtransport can reduce need for 
development of new decarbonisation 
techniques in these sectors. 
Capture costs can fall with deployment 
as risks are better understood from 
previous projects internationally 
and domestically. 
A viable business model 
to reduce risks and cost 
of ﬁnancing 
RAB model can bringdown cost 
of capital on T&S enabler and the 
alteration of risk proﬁle brings down 
risk contingencies. 
Known pipeline of projects can bring 
down capital costs of deployment. 
Secured revenue streams for each 
part of the CCUS chain can facilitate 
access to cheaper forms of ﬁnance. 
Lower securityrequirements 
on storage capacity lowers costs 
of L/Cs, PCGs, increases cash revenue. 
£ 
Other cost savings 
Development of greenhouse gas 
removal technologies facilitates 
decarbonisation ofhard to reach 
areas and can helpachieve net zero 
emissions aim in a cost-effective way. 
Large scale T&Senabler project 
can allow higher CO2 volumes from 
a CCUS cluster (and potentially 
elsewhere)and can support cost 
reduction in CO2 capture projects. 
CCUS can enable cost-effective decarbonisation of multiple 
energy sectors in the UK and multiple low carbon opportunities. 
* Committee on Climate Change, 2016. A strategic approach to Carbon Capture and Storage 
DELIVERING CLEAN GROWTH 
39 
BLAST FURNACE 4 IN PORT TALBOT 
Photo courtesy of Tata Steel 
CCUS COST CHALLENGE TASKFORCE REPORT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
40 
Driving down the cost of CCUS 
The comparative cost of CCUS 
Since commissioning new economic modelling was outside the scope of this Taskforce, 
we have analysed the existing data available. However, we recognise that a great deal 
of past analysis has focused on the electricity sector, and that cost information from 
UK CCUS projects is limited. As such, it has been difﬁcult to quantify the cost reductions 
which we anticipate in the UK. Furthermore, we believe that the frequently-used metric 
of the levelised cost of electricity (“LCOE”) cannot be used to accurately compare 
CCUS across all its applications with other technologies. 
However, in the absence of other metrics, we have concentrated on the available 
data. Several studies have considered the costs of CCUS for different technologies. 
The recent Summit Power study to develop a concept for a gas ﬁ red power plant with 
CCUS in Grangemouth has estimated the required strike price (including the T&S fee) 
to be in the region of £80-90/MWh65. 
The Taskforce’s view is that deployment of CCUS is key for driving cost reductions, 
such as has been the case for offshore wind. Shell, the developers of the Quest CCUS 
Project in Canada, believe that the cost of their next project could be up to 30% lower66. 
We have identiﬁ ed below a number of ways in which the business model proposals in 
this report could further drive down the costs of CCUS delivery. 
65 Summit Power Caledonia UK Ltd, 2018. Caledonia Clean Energy Project: Feasibility Study 
Phase 2, Final Report 
66 Global CCS Institute, 2016 (online), Shell’s Quest Carbon Capture and Storage Project reaches 
signiﬁcant milestone. Available at https://www.globalccsinstitute.com/news/institute-updates/ 
shell%E2%80%99s-quest-carbon-capture-and-storage-project-reaches-signiﬁ cant-milestone 
Accessed 27/06/2018 
Cost cutting through viable 
business models 
The report has identiﬁ ed a number of 
areas where we are suggesting changes 
to the business models which we think 
will drive cost reductions: 
− 
Cluster development: It is the 
Taskforce’s view that one way for 
the UK to drive down costs and take 
advantage of the values that CCUS 
offers would be to deploy the ﬁ rst 
CCUS projects in clusters, bringing 
the unit cost of CCUS down. 
− 
Splitting the CCUS chain: This reduces 
risk for the individual elements of the 
chain and allows the contingencies 
which were included in the model 
used for previous competition projects 
to be omitted from the costs. It also 
removes a risk which ﬁ nanciers ﬁ nd 
challenging and would otherwise 
push up the costs of debt. 
− 
Lower cost of equity: The RAB model 
targets a different kind of investor, 
with a longer term infrastructure 
investment horizon and a lower cost 
of capital. It is widely understood 
that equity investment returns in 
RAB models range between 7-12% 
IRR, depending on the asset class, 
whereas project development IRRs 
are generally targeting between 
13-17%. Putting in place the RAB 
model for the T&S assets would 
bring down the cost of equity. 
− 
Lower cost of debt: RAB assets can 
ﬁ nance in the capital markets on 
the basis of a net debt to RAB ratio. 
This provides access to a lower cost 
of debt for those assets which are 
RAB funded and could provide a 
much lower overall cost to consumer. 
− 
Risk allocation: A new risk allocation 
framework with Government owning, 
at least initially, those irreducible 
risks would reduce the cost of 
CCUS projects. 
DELIVERING CLEAN GROWTH 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7 
41 
Clean Gas Project 
We have 
recommended that 
the fastest way 
for the UK to drive 
down costs and 
take advantage 
of the value that 
CCUS offers would 
be to deploy 
CCUS projects 
in clusters. 
The Oil and Gas Climate Initiative 
(OGCI67) led Clean Gas Project (“CGP”) 
aims to design a full scale, integrated 
gas ﬁred power plant with CCUS. CGP 
hopes to unlock the decarbonisation 
of industries in the Teesside area 
and deliver up to 1.8 GW of clean, 
dispatchable low carbon electricity 
to UK consumers. 
Why is CGP different? 
1. CGP enables a full-chain CCUS 
project at scale in a key UK cluster. 
2. OGCI – 10 Oil & Gas companies 
with previous CCUS and major 
project experience – behind CGP 
development and execution. 
How does it work? 
The source of CO2 for capture is a 
large combined cycle gas power plant, 
which will capture up to 5 MtCO2 per 
year. This will form the centre of a 
cluster which could include a further 
4 MtCO2 per year of industrial 
emissions from fertilizer, 
petrochemicals, and other energy 
intensive industries in Teesside. 
The captured CO2 is transported 
via offshore pipeline to storage (an 
offshore saline aquifer or gas depleted 
reservoir) in the North Sea. The cost 
of full transportation and storage 
infrastructure is expected to be 
around 25% of the total project cost. 
The storage site is being developed 
to store up to 6 MtCO2 each year for 
25 years of continuous operations, 
and has up to 700 Mt of CO2 
storage capacity. 
Depending on the size of the project 
and business model adoption (full 
chain vs. split chain) total cost will be 
up to £4 billion with primary revenue 
sources from wholesale electricity 
price and CFD. The project can conﬁrm 
technical and economic viability of 
a large gas power plant with post-
combustion CO2 capture technology. 
How does this project meet the 
CCTF aims on value of CCUS 
and the cost challenge? 
CGP will provide a large fully 
integrated CCUS project, kicking off 
a cost reduction curve from ‘ﬁrst of a 
kind’ towards ‘nth of a kind’. It will also 
provide strategic T&S infrastructure 
to enable wider decarbonisation 
of energy intensive industry and a 
competitive clean power solution 
which will provide optimum value 
for money compared to alternative 
technologies. The project also provides 
jobs and investment to regenerate and 
support long term competitiveness of 
industry in Teesside and helps with 
decarbonising the energy system. 
67 Find out more about this case study at: http://oilandgasclimateinitiative.com/climate-
investments/ 
CCUS COST CHALLENGE TASKFORCE REPORT 
42 
DELIVERING CLEAN GROWTH 
Photo courtesy of Uniper 
43 
CCUS COST CHALLENGE TASKFORCE REPORT 
Implementation 
PART C: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
44 
Project delivery – CCUS clusters 
The Clean Growth Strategy highlights 
the Government’s commitment to working 
with emerging CCUS projects in industrial 
clusters, as part of enhancing their 
long term industrial competitiveness. 
As shown on the map at Figure 1 each 
of the identiﬁ ed clusters presents 
different opportunities for the application 
of CCUS across different sectors 
(industrial, hydrogen or power) and the 
development of CO2 storage facilities. 
While each cluster will approach 
CCUS differently, we recommend that 
each cluster will need: 
− 
a well developed project with 
strong commercial sponsorship; 
− 
an existing industrial base; 
− 
good access to CO2 storage capacity; 
− 
strong local and regional support; 
− 
assets that could be re-used 
for CO2 transport and storage 
(where appropriate); 
− 
to incorporate innovative new 
technologies, including for the 
use of CO2; 
− 
to consider the opportunities 
to maximise future inward 
investment; and 
− 
a supply chain plan. 
Project delivery through 
CCUS clusters 
We recommend developing CCUS in 
clusters where there is local support 
and a signiﬁ cant investment opportunity, 
starting with the clusters identiﬁ ed in 
this report. To drive down costs and 
drive up value there may be beneﬁt 
in splitting off the transportation and 
storage infrastructure68 so that several 
diverse CCUS projects can cluster around 
one pipeline and store, which could 
be extended, if needed, in the future. 
The Taskforce believes that the T&S 
infrastructure can be an enabler 
(a T&S Enabler) for CCUS and adopting 
a cluster approach enables the costs 
to be spread across projects and could 
reduce unit costs associated with the 
T&S infrastructure. 
The Taskforce believes that each cluster 
will need a “catalyst” project to act as 
an “anchor” for each cluster as well as 
access to T&S infrastructure. Whilst a 
future alternative transport method may 
be via ship, this may not be cheaper 
due to the need to liquify the CO2. 
Therefore, given the opportunity to 
exploit the UK’s natural geological 
advantages in storage sites, we have 
focused in the ﬁ rst instance on pipeline 
assets, although there should be in-built 
ﬂexibility to allow for shipping assets 
to be added to enable the T&S Enabler 
to expand its commercial operations. 
In turn this has the potential to reduce 
costs to the UK consumer and taxpayer 
by receiving CO2 and associated 
revenues from other sources in Europe. 
Catalyst project: To realise the full 
value of CCUS within a speciﬁ c cluster, 
a Catalyst project is needed to be 
the “anchor” for the T&S Enabler. 
The Taskforce is impartial as to the 
type of Catalyst project, instead each 
cluster should decide this based on the 
make-up of the existing industry and its 
potential investors. 
Feeder projects: Our vision is that 
clusters should be capable of being 
built out with Feeder projects, to expand 
the network and provide an additional 
source of funding for the T&S Enabler. 
Each cluster should determine the type 
of Feeder projects, but we would expect 
them to be identiﬁ ed at the time the 
cluster was created so that decisions 
could be taken as to the relative sizing 
of the T&S assets. 
We have identiﬁed seven possible options 
for progressing CCUS clusters, which are 
outlined in Table 2 to the right. 
68 Green Finance Taskforce, 2018. Accelerating Green Finance: A report to Government by the Green Finance Taskforce 
DELIVERING CLEAN GROWTH 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
45 
Table 2: Options for progressing CCUS clusters 
Deployment 
Pathway 
Description 
Assessment of Pathway 
Small scale 
This option would deploy a small scale capture catalyst 
Opportunity for a low cost CCUS cluster. 
demonstration 
project (e.g. <0.5 MtCO2/yr), with storage of CO2 in the UK. 
Unit costs of T&S likely to be higher due to 
Catalyst 
This pathway could make use of existing infrastructure 
smaller scale. 
to reduce costs. 
Fewer cost savings if T&S cannot take CO2 
Catalyst likely to be industrial CCUS, because of the 
from further feeder projects. 
smaller scale. 
Large scale 
Catalyst 
This option would deploy a larger CCUS catalyst 
(e.g. >0.5 MtCO2/yr) with storage of CO2 in the UK 
Greater scale contributes large part of delivering 
CCC recommendations (10 MtCO2 per year by 2030). 
with oversized T&S infrastructure. 
Lower unit costs and greater opportunity to draw 
It could be hydrogen, electricity or both 
in further CO2 from Feeder projects. 
(e.g. H2 to a CCGT). 
Overall costs higher due to greater size. 
Feeder projects would further reduce costs of the 
T&S infrastructure assets. 
Hydrogen 
production 
Catalyst 
This option would focus on creation of a new 
hydrogen economy and the use of CCUS as part of 
the decarbonised heating, transport, industrial and 
marine sectors. Hydrogen production also offers pure 
sources of CO2 which could be utilised in some food 
production processes. 
Dependent on scale, could have low unit costs. 
Provides opportunity to decarbonise wide range 
of sectors through supply of low carbon hydrogen. 
Market for hydrogen at scale not currently 
established and new business models would 
be needed. 
R&D-led 
This option would focus on ways to stimulate innovation 
This option would not deliver the Government’s 
option with UK 
in CCUS technologies but does not envisage CCUS 
ambition of an option to develop CCUS at scale in 
deployment 
deployment in the 2020s. Government would drive R&D 
the 2030s and it would be challenging to commit 
delayed until 
activity, feasibility studies, store appraisals and FEED 
deployment of capture at scale without having ﬁrst 
2030 
work but would not expect a commercial scale project to 
proven store operation for several years. 
be operational until 2030. 
T&S enabler 
This option would invest in T&S infrastructure with the 
deployment 
intention of enabling capture projects to link into it (e.g. 
a “backbone” investment), sized to allow for signiﬁcant 
future capture projects in a cluster (but taking the risk on 
speciﬁcations of a future catalyst without one being in 
place at the start). The location of the T&S enabler would 
be chosen ahead of picking a CCUS catalyst. 
By providing a “backbone” for a cluster, capture 
projects can link into the infrastructure at reduced 
cost. Likely to mean a signiﬁcant role for Government 
investing in the infrastructure. 
There is an increased risk of stranded asset. 
CCUS catalyst 
with shipping 
Under this option, the UK would invest in CO2 capture 
project(s) but not the T&S infrastructure. Instead CO2 
captured would be shipped for storage outside the UK. 
This deployment option enables the Government 
to signal its future intent to develop CCUS without 
commitment to the T&S infrastructure. 
This option is challenged by the current restrictions 
under the London Protocol and the uncertain costs 
of shipping and storing CO2 in a third country. 
UK still likely to have to develop its own CO2 
infrastructure at some point. 
EOR-focused 
Under this option, the UK would focus on CCUS projects 
At present EOR is not seen as an economically 
deployment 
with EOR. CO2 EOR has been deployed successfully in 
attractive option for the UK and would need to be 
the US and Canada and provides a revenue stream to 
CCUS projects for the CO2. However, those projects are 
considered in light of the UK’s wider climate change 
and environmental policy perspectives. 
onshore EOR and at present offshore EOR is not viewed 
as an economically attractive option for the UK. 
CCUS COST CHALLENGE TASKFORCE REPORT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
46 
Selection considerations 
for a CCUS cluster 
− 
Level of local/regional support and priorities 
(e.g. as identiﬁ ed in the Local Industrial Strategies). 
− 
Commercial viability – locations available, size of store, 
willing participants, unit cost of storage, compatibility 
with potential emissions sources and performance risk. 
− 
Compatibility with Government’s Industrial and Clean 
Growth Strategies and the Government’s new approach 
to CCUS. 
− 
Ability to reduce costs of T&S implementation through 
support of several projects. 
− 
Ability of enabling T&S investment to leverage in private 
sector investment in CCUS. 
− 
Opportunity for repurposing/retaining/enhancing existing 
industry and industrial assets. 
− 
Attractiveness for new investment, growth and industry 
to that cluster, including of CO2 utilisation. 
− 
Opportunity for local and regional direct and indirect 
jobs, potentially through creation of a local supply chain. 
− 
Materiality and extent of value for money options 
it could support. 
− 
Ability to deploy CCUS from the mid-2020s 
− 
The degree of ‘optionality’ (ability to encourage alternative 
CCUS technologies and incorporate CGR Zones) at 
each location. 
− 
Level of support required and likely impact on customers 
and taxpayers. 
− 
Air quality and wider public beneﬁt of decarbonisation 
at location. 
Business plans for clusters 
We recommend that Government 
develops a policy framework to enable 
the ﬁ rst CCUS clusters to be operational 
from the mid-2020s. This policy 
framework should include criteria 
(Table 3), timeline and the detail 
on the assessment process as well 
as the schedule for the ﬁ rst, and 
subsequent, application rounds. 
Having a framework in place, 
supported by the CCUS roadmap, 
will give industry the certainty it needs 
to bring forward its business plans. 
The cluster would be responsible 
for developing its business plan and 
submitting its proposals for developing a 
CCUS cluster. In each proposal we would 
anticipate a strong level of collaboration 
between industry, the relevant local and 
regional governments, and devolved 
administration as well as the T&S enabler 
and the CCUS Catalyst project, so that 
the two projects could be dovetailed and 
become operational concurrently. 
A ﬁ nal decision on whether to proceed 
with a CCUS cluster would only be made 
once the cluster proposals are further 
progressed. Those clusters that are 
assessed as being suitable for further 
progression will be taken through to 
ﬁ nal assessment. 
Development funding 
We recommend that Government 
provides targeted funding for 
the development of innovative, 
comprehensive, and fully costed 
cluster business plans. Regional and 
local Government, and devolved 
administrations can work with national 
Government to support this effort. 
Industry would then mobilise its 
resources and expertise to develop 
detailed business plans for clusters. 
RECOMMENDATION: 
Government to publish a policy 
framework and criteria to enable and 
prioritise CCUS clusters in the ﬁ rst 
half of 2019. 
DELIVERING CLEAN GROWTH 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CCUS COST CHALLENGE TASKFORCE REPORT
8 
47 
We propose that 
the deployment 
of CCUS projects 
is spearheaded 
by industry with 
Government and 
the regulator 
supplying a stable 
framework for 
investment to be 
brought forward. 
Northern Gas 
Network Project 
(H21 North of England) 
Key beneﬁ ts/aims 
Northern Gas Networks in 
collaboration with Equinor and Cadent 
are developing a project to supply 
clean hydrogen using natural gas 
reforming with CCUS for decarbonising 
heat, power and transport across the 
North of England. 
The project will build on the original 
‘H21 Leeds City Gate’ work presenting 
a ‘conceptual design’ for converting 
the North of England to hydrogen 
between 2028 and 2035, and 
decarbonising heat. This project 
covers the areas of Hull, Liverpool, 
Manchester, Teesside, Tyneside, West 
Yorkshire and York which includes three 
million-meter points, circa 85 TWh per 
annum and 12.5% of net UK population. 
How does it work? 
The hydrogen will be produced in a 
large scale 12GW capacity hydrogen 
facility. The CO2 source, an integrated 
part of the hydrogen production 
process, will capture 17 MtCO2 per year. 
The optimum option for CO2 
transportation is via pipeline from 
the hydrogen facility – likely in 
conjunction with natural gas entry 
points, for example at Easington or 
Teesside. Due to economies of scale, 
the transportation cost is likely to be 
under £6 per tonne of CO2. Storage 
would be focused in the Southern 
North Sea to allow CCUS trade with 
Europe, and would take advantage 
of the UK’s most extensive CCUS 
capacity. Further, the project includes 
inter-seasonal hydrogen storage of 11 
TWh that enables ﬂ exible supply of 
clean energy. 
How does this project meet the 
CCTF aims on value of CCUS 
and the cost challenge? 
The H21 North of England project 
could represent a ﬁrst policy for UK 
government to decarbonise heat: 
• The project would provide more 
decarbonised energy than the total 
amount of renewables supplied to 
the UK in 2017; 
• Starting in 2026, by 2035 the 
project would be the largest CCUS 
project in the world; and 
• The project provides a ﬂ exible energy 
infrastructure, decarbonising heat 
while providing the opportunity to 
incorporate future sources of green 
hydrogen, and offering support to 
growing renewable generation. 
Figure 10: Presentation of the H21 North of England project 
Image courtesy of Equinor 
48 
Figure 11: Sharing the T&S fee between capture projects 
Catalyst 
T&S Enabler 
Phase 1 
E.g. electricity 
project with a 
CFD that pays 
strike price for 
CO2 capture and 
the T&S fee 
As the sole user of the 
T&S user, Catalyst 
pays 100% of T&S fee 
Catalyst 
T&S Enabler 
Feeder 1 
Phase 2 
E.g. hydrogen 
heating project 
with gas bill to 
include pass 
through of the 
T&S fee 
If Catalyst and Feeder 
1 use the T&S assets in 
proportions of 70% and 
30%, the Catalyst’s T&S 
fee will be 70% and Feeder 
1’s T&S fee will be 30% 
Feeder 1 
Catalyst 
T&S Enabler 
Feeder 2 
Phase 3 
Feeder 3 
e.g. industrial 
projects with a 
tax credit sized 
for amount of 
the T&S fee 
If Feeder 2 and 3 each 
use 15% of the T&S assets, 
Catalyst uses 50% and 
Feeder 1 uses 20% of the 
T&S assets, the T&S fee 
will be shared pro-rata 
for all the users 
DELIVERING CLEAN GROWTH 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
49 
Business models for CCUS clusters 
The UK already has a well understood 
regulatory framework to enable CO2 
storage69, an experienced offshore oil 
and gas industry, a successful CFD 
mechanism supporting low carbon 
electricity generation, and a mature 
regulatory structure for gas transmission 
and distribution assets and well-
functioning gas market. 
However, there are no operating 
CCUS projects in the UK today, 
partly because of the challenge 
of allocating risks in a commercially 
viable way. We have proposed that 
separating out the ownership, operation, 
and risks of T&S infrastructure from 
capture projects has the potential to 
make ﬁ nancing easier and prevents 
permanently loading costs on to one 
project and one set of consumers. 
It also has the potential to encourage the 
development of strategic transport and 
storage hubs, large enough to support 
increasing volumes of CO2, both within 
the cluster and elsewhere (e.g. shipped 
to the UK from mainland Europe). 
69 Consoli et. al., 2017. Carbon capture and 
storage readiness index: comparative 
review of global progress towards 
wide-scale deployment 
Sharing the costs 
We recognise that the development of CCUS requires signiﬁ cant investment 
particularly if the T&S infrastructure is oversized for growth, and who bears the costs 
will depend on the type of business models and projects chosen. We have therefore 
looked at how these costs could be spread in two ways: ﬁ rstly, by spreading these 
costs over Catalyst and Feeder projects and, secondly, how those costs are allocated 
to different funding streams. 
As set out in Figure 11 the Catalyst project would initially bear 100% of the T&S fee. 
However, if Feeder project(s) are added to the cluster, the T&S fees would be shared 
proportionately. For example: 
− 
In phase 1, if the T&S fee were £100, the Catalyst project would pay £100. 
− 
In phase 2, one Feeder project joins the T&S network, meaning that the T&S fees 
are shared on a pro rata basis. If, by volume, the Catalyst project was transporting 
and storing 70% of the CO2 and the Feeder project 30%, then the catalyst would 
pay £70 and the Feeder £30. 
− 
In phase 3, two further Feeder projects join, such that the volumes of CO2 
transported and stored were catalyst (50%); Feeder 1 (20%); Feeder 2 (15%); 
Feeder 3 (15%) then the share of T&S fees would be catalyst (£50); Feeder 1 (£20); 
Feeder 2 (£15); and Feeder 3 (£15). 
Different projects have different economic drivers and different beneﬁ ciaries. 
Previous CCS competitions used business models where the initial costs of CCUS 
would have been borne wholly by electricity consumers or the taxpayer. Our approach 
recommends that the costs are shared and have concluded it could be appropriate to: 
− 
share the costs of developing business models and business plans with local, 
regional and central Government, the devolved administrations and industry; 
− 
share the costs of the T&S Enabler(s) proportionately across the projects which 
use them; 
− 
share the costs of electricity production with electricity consumers; and 
− 
share the costs of the decarbonisation of heat with gas consumers. 
Viable business models 
If we are to achieve our recommendation that at least two CCUS clusters are 
operational from the mid-2020s, then the ﬁ rst capture projects may need to be 
supported via existing mechanisms. For example, electricity projects can use the 
existing CFD mechanism (adapted for CCUS) and hydrogen projects can seek to use 
the existing regional RAB models. 
However, we believe there will need to be new business models for T&S and industrial 
CCUS projects, to support CCUS deployment at scale across sectors. We are therefore 
suggesting that: 
− 
The T&S enabler is taken forward using a RAB model; 
− 
Electricity projects utilise the existing CFD mechanism, adapted for CCUS; 
− 
Investment in early hydrogen projects for the gas grid to be borne by gas 
consumers, using the existing RAB structures; and 
− 
Industrial products are supported through a mechanism that may include 
a new tax credit scheme, new low carbon product standards or joint Government/ 
industry investment. 
CCUS COST CHALLENGE TASKFORCE REPORT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
50 
We discuss each of these proposals 
below in more detail. 
T&S Enabler Model 
We are proposing that the Government 
further explores the use of a RAB model 
for the T&S enabler project. A RAB model 
can give the ﬂexibility to enable future 
development over time, as the need 
for further infrastructure grows with 
cluster development and is used for 
gas networks as well as for some single 
asset models such as the Thames 
Tideway Tunnel, and for interconnectors. 
The RAB model is attractive to those 
with longer term investment horizons. 
RAB models have low volatility in 
returns, a stable regulatory regime 
and the potential for future growth and 
deployment of further capital, 
all of which attract different investors 
from higher risk, higher reward projects. 
RAB models therefore command a lower 
cost of capital which helps drive down the 
overall costs of delivery. The RAB model 
could also help to attract bids which 
include strong operational expertise. 
In our proposed RAB model, the GB 
regulator for electricity and natural gas 
markets, Ofgem, could economically 
regulate the T&S assets through the 
grant of a licence for CCUS T&S and 
would determine the T&S fees for the T&S 
licensee through a system of regulatory 
building blocks set out in the licence. 
Through primary legislation70 there would 
be a duty on the regulator to ensure 
that the licensee (the T&S provider) is 
able to ﬁnance its functions. This would 
include the design, construction, 
ﬁ nancing, operation, maintenance and 
decommissioning of the T&S assets, 
including its monitoring obligations. 
During the construction phase and the 
ﬁ rst ﬁve years of operation the building 
block methodology would be ﬁxed in 
the licence. After that initial period, 
the regulator would carry out periodic 
reviews and, if necessary, adjustments 
to the T&S fees. This would allow for the 
T&S licensee to manage and respond to 
risks that may arise in the T&S sector or 
to expand the T&S network, while also 
ensuring that the costs to consumers are 
as low as possible. 
The T&S fees would be calculated on 
certain building blocks and adjustments 
which would be set out in the T&S 
provider’s licence. 
70 We have not fully explored the extent to which the same result may be achieved without 
the need for primary legislation and so have presented the more conservative view here 
Proposed formula for T&S fees 
T&S fees = (RAB x WACC) + Opex + Depreciation + FCA + Tax + Decommissioning + Additional T&S Fees + Adjustments. 
This formula would include: 
− 
RAB: the regulated asset base, 
being the forecast capital cost of the 
project incurred by the T&S licensee 
in creating the assets during the 
construction period; 
− 
WACC: the weighted average cost 
of capital for the T&S licensee, made 
up of the weighted average cost of 
the debt and the equity, to the extent 
possible determined by competition 
(to ensure attraction of providers 
with operational expertise) or, in the 
operational periods, as determined 
by the regulator; 
− 
Opex: the costs incurred by the T&S 
licensee for the operation of the 
T&S assets, including operating, 
maintenance and management costs, 
costs of regulatory compliance, 
insurance costs and other similar 
costs associated with the operation 
of T&S in the operational phase such 
as monitoring; 
− 
Depreciation: a sum to account for 
the depreciation of the closing value 
of the RAB following construction 
over the useful economic life of the 
assets, which creates a revenue 
stream for the amortisation of any 
ﬁ nancing of the capital cost; 
− 
FCA: a ﬁ nancing cost adjustment 
to protect against movements in 
the market cost of debt during the 
construction period; during the 
operation period embedded debt 
would be taken into account by 
the Regulator; 
− 
Tax: an allowance for the tax 
liabilities of the T&S provider, 
including business rates; 
− 
Decommissioning: an allowance for 
the costs of decommissioning the 
assets after the closure of the store; 
− 
Additional T&S Fees:additional 
capex to be logged onto the RAB 
for expansions of the system (for 
example the drilling of additional 
wells for injection, additional 
capacity, pipeline spurs to new 
Feeder projects, or shipping 
for development of overseas 
services); and 
− 
Adjustments: including a 
reconciliation adjustment to update 
the RAB for actual expenditure such 
that T&S licensee’s revenues are 
corrected from the amount earned on 
the forecast RAB to the amount which 
should have been earned on the 
actual RAB and to implement any of 
the incentivisation mechanism (if any). 
DELIVERING CLEAN GROWTH 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9 
51 
Having such a 
policy in place and 
a clear roadmap 
for the actions 
the industry and 
Government will 
take and how 
deployment will be 
rolled out (including 
a well developed 
timetable) will give 
industry the level 
of certainty it needs 
to bring forward its 
business plans for 
the clusters. 
NET Power 
NET Power is a partnership between 
three companies71 who have ﬁnanced 
a 50MWth demonstration plant in 
La Porte, Texas to test a new natural 
gas fuelled power system which will 
emit near zero emissions into the 
atmosphere. The NET Power plant 
employs a new type of power cycle 
called the Allam Cycle, which uses 
high-pressure CO2, instead of steam 
or air, as the working ﬂ uid to drive 
a combustion turbine. The CO2 that 
NET Power plants generate is high 
pressure, high quality, and ready for 
pipeline transportation and storage. 
The objective of the NET Power 
plant is to produce large quantities of 
electric power from carbon containing 
fuels with near to 100% capture, at 
the same cost as the best technology 
unabated plants using natural gas or 
coal. NET Power achieved ﬁrst ﬁre of 
its demonstration plant in May 2018, 
a critical step for demonstrating the 
operability of this new system. 
In addition to testing the Allam Cycle, 
one of the NET Power partners, 
8 Rivers, is developing a process 
which would produce low cost pure 
high-pressure hydrogen for clean 
power generation and transport fuel. 
How does it work? 
The Allam Cycle uses an oxy-
combustion process (oxygen 
separated from air) to burn the fuel 
with pure oxygen. The CO2 produced 
in this combustion is recycled 
back to the combustor multiple 
times, producing a working ﬂ uid of 
concentrated, high-pressure CO2. 
The use of CO2 as the working ﬂ uid 
allows much higher efﬁciency than 
either steam-based cycles used in 
existing coal-ﬁred stations or air and 
steam used in natural gas combined 
cycle stations, which results in less 
CO2 produced per kW/h and less 
CO2 to sequester. It produces only 
electricity, liquid water and pipeline-
ready CO2 (which can then be 
transported and stored). As carbon 
capture is part of the design of this 
process, the plant does not require 
extra capture equipment. 
71 Find out more about this case study at: 
https://www.netpower.com/ 
NET Power’s 50MWth demonstration plant 
in La Porte, Texas, which began testing in 
early 2018 
Photo courtesy of NET Power and CB&I 
CCUS COST CHALLENGE TASKFORCE REPORT 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
52 
Electricity projects 
Those capture projects which are 
electricity generating ones could 
be supported using the existing 
CFD mechanism (or any equivalent 
mechanism that may be introduced 
in the future). 
The Energy Act 201372 provides the 
legislative foundation for the CFD regime 
and sets out that for CCUS, CFDs can 
only be awarded by the Secretary of 
State for BEIS (i.e. through bilateral 
negotiation rather than competitive 
auction). In the future, Government 
should consider whether CFDs for CCUS 
projects could be awarded through a 
competitive process. In addition, the CFD 
model could be adapted to incentivise 
ﬂexible generation through allowing 
targeted revenues. 
The CFD strike price for CCUS would 
need to reﬂect the cost of capture and 
72 Energy Act 2013 http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2013/32/enacted 
Figure 12: Carbon capture, usage and storage: a potential new business model 
generation as well as the project’s 
relevant proportion of the T&S fee. 
However, the T&S fee could be a 
separate pass-through element of the 
overall revenues and not part of the CFD 
strike price. By separation of the T&S 
enabler from the capture project, the T&S 
fee would ﬂex on a pass-through basis as 
a separate element in the CFD revenue 
payments. This model is represented in 
Figure 12. 
HMG Support Package 
− Insurer of last resort 
above commercial 
insurance 
− CO2 storage risk cover 
• Remote support 
to deal with CCS 
CFD 
− Strike Price 
(i)  Generator costs 
(ii) Transportation &  
Storage Fee 
− Transportation & 
Storage Fee payable 
regardless of generation 
− Strike Price comes down 
for individual projects as 
they link up 
LCCC 
Generator 
Transportation 
& Storage 
Infrastructure 
Provider 
Equity 
Debt 
(storage risks) 
− Storage Direct  
Agreement 
Secretary of State 
Transportation  
Licence 
& Storage Fee 
RAB Model 
Licence 
− RAB based regulation  
for Transportation 
& Storage Assets 
− Licence granted through 
competitive process 
run by BEIS/Ofgem 
− Tideway style 
competition to 
reduce WACC and 
improve strike price 
Ofgem 
System 
EPC 
O&M
Integrator 
DELIVERING CLEAN GROWTH 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
53 
Industrial projects 
In order to meet decarbonisation targets while continuing to grow the economy, there is 
an urgent need to incentivise energy intensive industries to decarbonise. This is likely 
to rely heavily on CCUS for a large number of energy intensive industries73. 
There is no incentive mechanism to support industrial decarbonisation through CCUS, 
although tax legislation in force in the United States could provide a useful model. This 
regime incentivises capture and the storage and use of CO2 by industry (also known 
as 45Q) by providing, over a 12-year period, tax credits of $50 per tonne for CO2 which 
is geologically stored, and $35 per tonne for CO2 which is utilised. The International 
Energy Agency argues74 that 45Q is an important example of how the implementation 
of well-placed legislation can, at a low cost to the taxpayer, dramatically increase the 
viability of the CCUS industry, with approximately $1 billion of possible further capital 
investment in carbon capture projects anticipated by 2026. 
Although other business models should also be considered by the Government’s 
Review of CCUS Delivery and Investment Frameworks, a similar tax incentive system 
could be implemented in the UK aimed at energy intensive industries. The beneﬁt 
of this approach is that no funding is required until projects are capturing and 
permanently storing or utilising the CO275. 
We also suggest enhancing competitiveness of low carbon industrial products through 
developing a decarbonised product mark (see Part C: Implementation). Once this is 
fully implemented, the support from the tax credit could reduce in line with the value 
attributed to these low carbon products by the consumer. 
Greenhouse Gas Removal technologies 
We recognise that GGRs are likely to play a crucial role in tackling climate change, and 
that there is no existing mechanism which incentivises their role in providing negative 
emissions. We do not propose a business model in this report, but propose that further 
work is conducted by Government, industry, and academia to develop an appropriate 
business model which could support the development and deployment of GGRs in 
the UK. 
Recommendation: Government to respond to the Taskforce recommendations 
for the implementation of new business models for CCUS through the Review 
of Delivery and Investment Frameworks. 
73 Committee on Climate Change, 2018. An independent assessment of the UK’s Clean Growth 
Strategy: From ambition to action 
74 Bennet and Stanley, 2018 (online) US Budget bill may help carbon capture get back on track. 
Available at https://www.iea.org/newsroom/news/2018/march/commentary-us-budget-bill-may-
help-carbon-capture-get-back-on-track.html Accessed 29/06/18 
75 For example, a tax credit based on a price per tonne of CO2 stored. The price per tonne would 
need to be sufﬁcient to cover both the cost of implementing CCUS and paying the T&S fee. This 
could be coupled with local or regional tax policies (in CGR Zones) to assist in the attraction of 
new industry 
CCUS COST CHALLENGE TASKFORCE REPORT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
54 
Hydrogen projects 
The UK is highly dependent on gas for heating with over 80% of homes heated this 
way76. National Grid’s Future of Gas report highlights the potential for replacing 
methane in the gas grid with hydrogen, either in full or as a blend (up to 15% 
hydrogen)77. However, we recognise there is currently no broad consensus 
on the best route to long term heat decarbonisation. 
The CO2 captured in the creation of hydrogen from natural gas would need to be 
transported and stored, paid for through the T&S fee. The costs of hydrogen with 
CCUS assets would include (i) the cost of the capture technology separating the CO2 
from the hydrogen, (ii) the T&S fees for disposal of the CO2, and (iii) the network piping 
the hydrogen to link up with transmission or distribution networks. 
The CFD mechanism in the electricity market spreads the cost of decarbonising power 
across all electricity users nationally. To minimise the impact on gas users a similar 
approach could be taken for decarbonising heat and funding hydrogen assets. 
The alternative would be to include the costs of the hydrogen plant and attendant 
pipework in the regulated asset base of the relevant regional gas distribution licensee. 
We recognise that for hydrogen heating projects seeking to take ﬁ nancial investment 
decisions shortly, there may need to be shorter term measures such as funding through 
the RIIO-2 mechanisms as part of gas distribution networks. An exemption would also 
be required to the Gas Safety (Management) Regulations (GS(M)R)78 speciﬁ cation 
to enable a higher blend of hydrogen to be included in the gas distribution and 
transmission networks. 
RECOMMENDATION: Industry, Government and the regulator to develop 
the mechanisms by which hydrogen projects could be funded through 
the RIIO-2 mechanisms before gas networks business plans are due for 
submission (September 2019). 
RECOMMENDATION: Government to support the timely achievement 
of an exemption to the Gas Safety (Management) Regulations (GS(M)R) 
speciﬁcation to enable a higher blend of hydrogen to be included in the gas 
distribution and transmission networks, and to consider developing a policy that 
requires including a steadily rising percentage of hydrogen (produced by low 
carbon methods) in gas supplied to customers. 
Hydrogen with CCUS can also support 
decarbonisation in transport, industrial 
processes and power. For example, 
in transport hydrogen could support 
decarbonisation across: 
− 
Shipping: Decarbonisation of 
shipping presents a signiﬁ cant 
opportunity for innovation and 
creation of new hydrogen industries. 
Norway is currently considering 
the development of hydrogen 
powered ships. 
− 
Buses/ﬂ eet cars: Hydrogen fuel cells 
are already being used in buses (in 
Aberdeen and London) and taxis 
(Green Tomato Cars). 
− 
Trains/ HGVs: Hydrogen trains 
are already in production for the 
German networks, and Japan is 
looking at hydrogen for HGVs, 
which could provide an alternative 
to electriﬁ cation. 
76 Committee on Climate Change, 2016. Heat in UK Buildings Today 
77 National Grid, 2018. Future of Gas: How gas can support a low carbon future 
78 Gas Safety (Management) Regulations 1996 http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1996/551/made 
DELIVERING CLEAN GROWTH 
55 
10 
H21 Leeds City Gate 
Key beneﬁ ts/aims 
The H21 Leeds City Gate project 
conﬁ rmed that UK gas distribution 
networks can be converted from 
natural gas to 100% hydrogen 
incrementally from 2026. The project 
showed a pathway to fully decarbonising 
heat across the UK in the domestic, 
industrial and commercial sectors 
to a level commensurate with the 
Climate Change Act obligations. 
Such a conversion would also support 
decarbonisation of transport and 
electrical generation. 
The H21 project has an extensive 
global interest and has formed the 
basis of all other gas network projects 
as well as the UK Government’s 
‘Hy4Heat’ and the UK Gas Industry’s 
‘H21 NIC’ £25m and £15m projects 
respectively. 
How does it work? 
Hydrogen for a city the size of Leeds 
would be produced using natural 
gas in four steam methane reformers 
with a combined capacity of 1.0 
GW. This is equivalent to 6.4TWh of 
annual energy for heat with 1.5 MtCO2 
captured and stored safely each 
year. The H21 project has built on 
the extensive work of the Teesside 
Collective in considering building 
CCUS infrastructure off the North-East 
Coast, which could also be used by 
this major industrial cluster. Where 
possible, reuse of existing North Sea 
infrastructure would be considered to 
further minimise costs. 
The H21 project shows how 
incremental conversion of all UK cities 
over time allows stepping stones to 
scaling CO2 storage as more cities 
covert to Hydrogen. This provides 
signiﬁ cant cost reductions through 
economies of scale. 
How does this project meet the 
CCTF aims on value of CCUS 
and the cost challenge? 
The H21 project creates a low risk 
strategy for scaling CCUS deployment 
in the UK whilst decarbonising heat 
to a scale commensurate with climate 
change obligations. Beneﬁ ts include: 
• Primarily decarbonising heat 
(domestic, industrial and 
commercial) but with potential 
to supply hydrogen for power 
generation and transport; 
• Maintaining long term choice 
for customers (gas or electric 
heating); and 
• Creating new employment 
opportunities and a supply chain 
for decades to come. 
Figure 13: Overview of the H21 Leeds City Gate project 
CCUS COST CHALLENGE TASKFORCE REPORT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
56 
Innovation to drive CCUS costs 
down and increase revenues 
Technological innovation and 
creating new markets 
The UK ranks in the top ﬁve in the Global 
Innovation Index79. Clean industrial 
growth, enabled by CCUS, gives the 
UK the opportunity to move even further 
up the ranking. 
The UK has centres of outstanding 
engineering, delivery, technical and 
academic excellence. This resource base 
of skills, expertise and knowledge can 
be channelled to develop and sustain 
a highly competitive CCUS industry. 
The creation of new industrial products 
which capture and use CO2 can create 
new revenue streams, new markets and 
new export opportunities. 
With our cluster-centric approach, 
innovation can be incubated around 
the regions working on different 
CCUS projects. 
RECOMMENDATION: Industry to foster sharing of innovation in technologies 
and processes in line with the foundations set out in the Industrial Strategy. 
Figure 14: Championing innovation at each CGR Zone 
Clean Growth Regeneration Zones 
Develop 
international 
knowledge sharing 
to accelerate 
CCUS learning 
process 
Clean Growth 
Enhance 
Regeneration  
Zones 
Support 
Government’s 
decarbonisation 
vision 
Promote
Champion 
development 
UK’s global 
leadership on 
climate change 
regional and 
national growth
techniques to reduce 
by supporting 
local actors
key beneﬁts 
innovative 
costs and deliver 
Guide 
of CCUS 
projects 
Establish key 
policy and business 
concepts to 
accelerate CCUS 
deployment 
The Industrial Strategy outlines ﬁve 
key productivity drivers: ideas, people, 
infrastructure, business environment 
and place. To best harness this, 
Government, or regions under their 
own initiatives, could develop CGR 
Zones, as recommended by the Green 
Finance Taskforce Report, with a CCUS 
focus80. The CGR Zones can support the 
Government’s decarbonisation vision by 
anchoring investment into CCUS clusters, 
thereby boosting jobs and skills in those 
regions. These can be identiﬁ ed in the 
Local Industrial Strategies as responsible 
for championing innovative techniques 
to reduce costs and drive up beneﬁts. 
79 Dutta et. al. (Eds), 2017. The Global 
Innovation Index 2017 
80 Green Finance Taskforce, 2018. 
Accelerating Green Finance: A report 
to Government by the Green Finance 
Taskforce 
CCUS technologies: areas for potential cost reduction, productivity gains and new 
technology options 
− 
CO2 capture technology: key is combination of capture materials with lower 
regeneration energy requirements combined with improved (intensiﬁ ed) 
process devices which lower capex and opex. 
− 
CCUS processes: new processes designed to vastly reduce or eliminate the 
energy penalty of regenerating CO2 from a captured state and/or to operate 
the capture process at pressure, eliminating compression costs. 
− 
Industrial transformation: there are signiﬁ cant innovation opportunities 
for decarbonisation that would unlock revenues and utilisation for the 
CCUS projects. One of the most important areas for development concerns 
hydrogen and the Government’s policy on the decarbonising of heat and 
transport. There are also important decarbonisation ambitions needed for 
cement, steel and other high energy users. 
− 
Utilisation innovation: CO2 use is currently widespread but not yet seen as 
economic. The creation of new products through new uses for CO2 should be 
encouraged and the Government and industry should work on creating a pull 
factor to increase demand for decarbonised products and services. 
DELIVERING CLEAN GROWTH 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11 
57 
Carbon Capture Machine: 
Carbon capture and use 
in action 
Carbon Capture Machine (CCM UK) 
Ltd81 is a research-led CO2 utilisation 
company that is commercialising CCU 
process technology which converts 
CO2 into saleable products. CCM 
(UK) is the only European ﬁnalist 
in the $20 million NRG COSIA Carbon 
XPrize competition, and as part of 
this competition is currently building 
a pilot plant in Wyoming. 
How does it work? 
The Carbon Capture Machine (CCM) 
removes CO2 from combustion gas 
streams and converts the gas to stable 
and permanent mineral products. 
These replace traditional carbon-
intensive products. Examples include 
Precipitated Calcium Carbonates 
(PCCs) and Precipitated Magnesium 
Carbonates (PMCs), which are used to 
make new products such as ﬁreproof 
insulations and replace traditionally 
produced carbonate in a wide 
range of industrial applications 
(e.g. pigments, food supplements, 
and paper making). This technology 
can enable utilisation of CO2 as part 
of a circular carbon economy. 
How does this project meet the 
CCTF aims on value of CCUS 
and the cost challenge? 
CCM is key for showcasing UK CO2 
utilisation technology and the UK’s 
leadership in CCUS as well as the 
potential of innovation to reduce costs. 
Figure 15: Carbon Capture Machine at a glance 
Large CO2 Emitters 
Natural & Waste Brines 
The Carbon 
Capture Machine 
Clean Flue 
Gas, Less CO2 
Desalted, 
Depleted 
Brine 
Power Stations 
O&G Reﬁneries 
Cement Plants 
Incinerators 
Brine Aquifers 
Produced Water 
CCM Capcon Products 
Industry Wastes 
Desalination 
ECO-PCCs 
ECO-PMCs 
INPUTS 
VALUABLE CARBON –VE PRODUCTS 
OUTPUTS 
81 Find out more about this case study at: https://ccmuk.com/ 
CCUS COST CHALLENGE TASKFORCE REPORT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
58 
BOC Teesside hydrogen plant 
Photo courtesy of The Linde Group 
Implementation of CGR Zones could include: 
− 
A CCUS cluster which includes a clear commitment to innovation and utilisation 
of CO2 alongside the development of T&S and Catalyst and Feeder projects. 
−
Setting up multi-disciplinary teams of innovators in each cluster to co-ordinate cost 
reduction trajectories and build greater ﬁ nancial resilience for the CCUS cluster. 
− 
An oversight body which coordinates the development of CCUS projects at cluster 
locations based on the greatest and widest value that can be achieved and 
harnessing the needs and expertise of the customers (i.e. those that will beneﬁt 
from a project being developed in the region) and supply chain in that region. 
− 
Local incentives such as business rate reductions, a product “mark” that 
distinguishes a product as low carbon and fast-track options for procurement 
and planning activities. 
− 
Co-ordinating with national and international knowledge sharing initiatives such 
as the Global CCS Institute to co-ordinate local, national and international CCUS 
developments and sharing the latest best practice information to accelerate uptake 
of CCUS solutions. 
− 
Sharing international best practice in conjunction with the Foreign & 
Commonwealth Ofﬁ ce, Department for International Trade and international 
partners through international agreements and collaboration partnerships, 
enhancing the UK’s global leadership on climate change. 
RECOMMENDATION: Industry, Government, and local partners work 
together to support the development of innovative business plans for 
the development of CCUS clusters. 
DELIVERING CLEAN GROWTH 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
59 
Innovation of the regulatory landscape 
As the CCUS sector develops, there are opportunities for industry and Government 
to work together to develop world leading standards for new decarbonised industrial 
products and export this regulatory, legal, and ﬁ nancial expertise to countries looking 
to develop CCUS. The cross sectoral applications of CCUS also give an opportunity for 
cross-sector regulatory collaboration. 
The UK can lead in enabling the decarbonisation of cross-cutting sectors through 
use of CCUS (such as heating and transport via low carbon hydrogen). How this is 
regulated will be key and we suggest it could be directed by a UK-wide oversight 
body responsible for ensuring overall efﬁ ciency, cost-effectiveness, and fairness as 
is suggested for decarbonisation of heat by National Grid in the Future of Gas report82. 
This body would further analyse the following: 
− 
Government’s heat & transport strategies with a hydrogen component. 
− 
Introduction of CO2 credits or another regulatory incentive for avoided CO2 
emissions that would drive businesses to invest in a cluster, such as we have 
proposed for industrial CO2 capture projects. 
− 
Carry out studies on extending the producer responsibility principles from the 
waste sector to apply to CO2 emissions. 
− 
Introducing procurement criteria to encourage use of low carbon industrial products. 
While such policies may appear ground breaking, starting the debate around 
these regulatory measures would provide a clear horizon to unlock revenues for 
CCUS, accelerate decarbonisation and provide industry with a clearer trajectory. 
The debate around these issues will also drive greater innovation within industry. 
RECOMMENDATION: Working with sector regulators, industry and 
Government to assess opportunities for regulatory coherence and 
innovation across the heating, transport, gas and electricity sectors in the 
development of a decarbonised economy. 
Decarbonised product mark 
Our heavy industries are already under pressure from their customers to reduce their 
carbon emissions. To accelerate decarbonisation, it is crucial to build new business 
models around decarbonised products83 and services and create a pull factor to increase 
demand for these. A new industry led, and Government supported, accreditation 
scheme for all decarbonised products or services could build on the EU’s Green Public 
Procurement84 proposals and identify the UK as leading on low carbon development 
while unlocking business investment into new low carbon options such as CCUS. 
With the value that CCUS offers for the industrial sectors, the UK can lead in 
developing decarbonised steel, cement, lime, chemicals and other product models. 
We can build the new low carbon standards in these sectors and develop a 
compelling and coherent branding for low carbon industrial products and services – 
a decarbonised product mark – offering a unique selling point of decarbonised 
products. Once established these can be marketed to drive new sources of revenues 
as customers see the enhanced value of transparency around their purchasing 
choices. This builds on the recommendation in the Green Finance Taskforce to 
establish a Green Investment Accelerator. 
RECOMMENDATION: Industry to lead the creation of the decarbonised 
product mark, a clean industrial products certiﬁcation system, to certify 
the low carbon USP of decarbonised industrial products and Government to 
encourage their domestic use and global export. 
82 National Grid, 2018. Future of Gas: How gas can support a low carbon future 
Delivering the 
Taskforce’s key 
messages 
A “CCUS roadmap” of enabling 
actions is needed 
The Taskforce’s view is that Government 
needs to set out a CCUS roadmap to 
support its commitment to deploying 
CCUS in the UK. Our view is that 
innovation, cost reduction and learning 
will come from an industry and 
Government galvanised around a clear 
goal to be achieved by a speciﬁ ed time. 
The Deployment Pathway publication, 
to be published by the end of 2018, should 
include a roadmap developed jointly by 
industry and Government to show how 
CCUS can be developed and deployed 
across the different sectors, by providing 
clear pathways and enabling mechanisms 
to be put in place up to 2030. 
RECOMMENDATION: Industry 
and Government to work together 
to develop a CCUS roadmap for the 
UK as part of the Deployment Pathway 
publication by the end of 2018. 
83 We use the phrase ‘decarbonised products’ broadly to cover decarbonised electricity, heat and hydrogen as well as materials from decarbonised 
industrial processes such as cement and iron and steel 
84 European Commission (online) Green Public Procurement. Available at http://ec.europa.eu/environment/gpp/index_en.htm Accessed 29/06/18 
CCUS COST CHALLENGE TASKFORCE REPORT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
60 
Glossary 
BEIS – the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy 
Capex – capital expenditure or investment 
Catalyst project – ﬁ rst capture projects in a regional cluster that will anchor the T&S 
enabler to that regional cluster 
CCC – Committee on Climate Change – an independent, statutory body established 
under the Climate Change Act 2008 to advise the Government on emissions targets 
and progress made in reducing greenhouse gas emissions 
CGR Zone – clean growth regeneration zone 
CO2 – carbon dioxide 
CFD – contract for difference established under Energy Act 2013 
CCUS – carbon capture usage and storage 
EOR – enhanced oil recovery 
Feeder project – follow on capture projects in a regional cluster that will feed into the 
T&S enabler at that cluster 
GGR – greenhouse gas removal – technologies that remove greenhouse gases from 
the atmosphere 
IPCC – the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change 
LCCC – Low Carbon Contracts Company, the counterparty to the CFD contracts and 
manager of those contracts 
LCOE – levelised cost of electricity 
Mt – million tonnes (or megatonnes) 
MTPA – million tonnes per annum 
MWh – megawatt hour 
NPV – net present value 
Opex – operational expenditure or investment 
OGA – the Oil and Gas Authority, a government company that works with Government 
and industry to regulate, inﬂuence and promote the UK oil and gas industry 
NPS – National Policy Statement, as may be applicable to planning policy for England 
and Wales 
R&D – research and development 
RAB – regulated asset base – as described in Part C: Implementation 
RIIO-2 – Revenue=Incentives+Innovation+Outputs (RIIO) is the price control for the 
network companies running the gas and electricity transmission and distribution 
networks. The RIIO-2 period is due to start on 1 April 2021 
T&S – transportation and storage parts of CCUS infrastructure 
T&S enabler – ﬁ rst CO2 transportation pipes and CO2 stores in a CCUS transportation 
and storage hub into which future projects can connect 
WACC – weighted average cost of capital 
DELIVERING CLEAN GROWTH 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-
 –
–
 –
 –
 –
 –
 –
 –
 –
 –
 –
 –
 –
 –
 –
 –
 –
 –
-
 –
 –
 –
 –
Membership of the CCUS Cost Challenge Taskforce 
Members of the Taskforce: 
Alan James – Pale Blue Dot 
Allan Baker – Société Générale 
Angela Whelan – Ecofn Foundation 
Aniruddha Sharma – Carbon Clean 
Solutions 
Aslak Viumdal – Gassnova 
Barbara Vest – Energy UK 
Bill Spence – OGCI 
Bryony Livesey – Costain 
Charlotte Morgan – Linklaters LLP 
Dalia Majumder Russell – Linklaters LLP 
Damien Gerard – OGCI Climate 
Investments 
Damien Hawke
 Cadent Gas 
David Reiner
 Cambridge University 
Debbie Stockwell – Sandbag 
Dominique Copin – Total 
Duccio Manetti – Baker Hughes GE 
Dustin Benton
 Green Alliance 
Gardiner Hill – BP 
Geoffrey Maitland
 Imperial College 
London 
George Day
 Energy Systems Catapult 
Ian Temperton
 Independent 
Jacqueline Redmond – Macquarie 
Jason Golder – The Crown Estate 
Jeremy Nicholson – Energy Intensive 
Users Group 
Jo Coleman – Shell 
John Scott – Zurich 
John Scowcroft – Global CCS Institute 
Jon Gibbins – UKCCSRC 
Kirsty Lynch – Pale Blue Dot 
Lamberto Eldering
 Equinor 
Laura Sandys
 Challenging Ideas 
Luke Warren – Carbon Capture  
& Storage Association 
Matt Taylor – BEIS 
Matthew Knight
 Siemens 
Nicola Pitts – National Grid  
System Operator 
Patrick Dixon
 Independent 
Paul Booth – Tees Valley  
Combined Authority 
Paul Davies
 Independent 
Paula Carey
 Carbon8 Systems 
Richard Leese – Mineral Products 
Association 
Rodney Allam – 8Rivers & NET Power 
Sam French – Johnson Matthey 
Simon De Vall – BOC Linde 
Stephanie Hazell – OGCI Climate 
Investments 
Stephen Kerr
 Summit Power 
Steven Woolass – Tata Steel 
Stuart Haszeldine – Scottish CCS 
Stuart McKay
 Scottish Government 
Susie Wood – BHP 
Tom Mallows – Crown Estate Scotland 
Tom Shields
 Chemical Sciences 
Scotland 
Trude Sundset
 Gassnova 
Will Lochhead – BEIS 
Acknowledgements: 
Amy Cutter – BEIS 
Andrew Bullimore – Oil and Gas 
Authority 
Annya Schneider – Global CCS Institute 
Chaitanya Kumar
 Green Alliance 
Chris Williams – Tata Steel 
David Fielder – BEIS 
Den Gammer
 Energy Systems Catapult 
Gavin Jackson – Linklaters LLP 
Gianluca Di Federico – Baker Hughes GE 
Gill Thomas – Linklaters LLP 
Hannah Crompton – CCS Association 
Ian Hill – Oil and Gas Authority 
Jonathan Baker Brian – BEIS 
Joshua Atkins – Energy UK 
Karen Turner
 Strathclyde University 
Martin Towns – BP 
Meg Nicolaysen – HM Treasury 
Melanie Shanker – Linklaters LLP 
Michael Priestnall – Innovate UK 
Niall Mac Dowell
 Imperial College 
London 
Nick Bevan – BEIS 
Nikki Brain – CCS Association 
Nilay Shah
 Imperial College London 
Peter Whitton
 Progressive Energy 
Sam Gomersall – Pale Blue Dot 
  
Delivering 
Clean Growth: 
CCUS Cost Challenge Taskforce Report 
