01 Executive summary
02  The case for carbon 
removal
08  The removal industry 
landscape
22 The role of insurance
39 Conclusion
July 2021
The insurance rationale  
for carbon removal solutions
Swiss Re Institute The insurance rationale for carbon removal solutions 1
Executive summary
Carbon removal is the capture and permanent storage of carbon dioxide (CO2) from 
the atmosphere. To limit global warming to 2015 Paris Accord levels, the world’s net 
emissions of greenhouse gases need to drop to zero by 2050. Thereafter, there will 
still be work to do to sustain net-negative emissions through the second half of the 
century. Zero emissions is far from reality. Even with actions to transition to a low-
carbon economy, global emissions are still rising, and it may take many decades to 
fully decarbonise some sectors. Therefore balancing residual and reversing historical 
emissions will require billions of tonnes of negative emissions up to and after 2050.
In this context, scaling the deployment of carbon removal technologies and activities 
will be central to keeping global warming at safe levels over the long term. “Net-zero 
emissions” has become common parlance in the public and private sectors, an 
acknowledgment of the need to: 1) double-down on emission reduction efforts; and 
2) build a carbon removal industry capable of delivering negative emissions at the 
speed (within three decades) and scale (10–20 billion tonnes per year) that climate 
science says will be required to enable sustainable living for future generations. 
The main barrier to deployment of carbon removal is lack of business case. In the 
absence of carbon pricing in many parts of the world, society disposes of carbon into 
the atmosphere at will. A sufficiently high fee on emissions would internalise 
expected negative externalities, and foster low-carbon decision making in 
production and consumption. In the absence of a fee and policy mandates, there is 
little incentive to cut, let alone collect and store emissions. That said, recent years 
have seen the emergence of first commercial providers of carbon removal services 
and also marketplace initiatives to commoditise carbon removal outcomes.
Carbon in the atmosphere can be captured and stored through different means. The 
least cost-intensive involves sequestering carbon in forests, wetlands, oceans and 
soil. When executed properly, these so-called nature-based solutions address 
multiple sustainability goals, including adaptation to climate change and preserving 
the integrity of ecosystems and biodiversity. But there can be opportunity costs, 
such as afforestation projects competing with agriculture for land resources. 
Moreover, nature-based solutions are susceptible to reversal through catastrophe 
events like fires and floods, and/or man-made threats (eg, deforestation). 
There are also technological solutions for removal. Carbon can be filtered from the 
atmosphere and used as commercial goods in long-lived products like concrete. CO2 
can also be contained and mineralised in underground rock layers, for instance in 
depleted oil and gas reservoirs. The implementation costs of these solutions are 
higher than for nature-based approaches, and existing solutions are under-deployed 
and new ones under-developed. Importantly, however, the risk of reversal is lower. 
The re/insurance industry can assist with scaling-up of the carbon removal industry 
in three ways. First, re/insurers can improve the bankability of carbon removal 
projects by providing compensation for losses in the case of adverse events. 
Standard engineering policies (eg, contractors all risk policies) can cover the 
construction, operation and deconstruction risks of carbon removal facilities (for air 
filters, CO2 pipelines, or injection rigs among others). And standard property 
insurance, including for losses resulting from natural disasters, can cover technology 
infrastructure and natural assets like forests. More challenging are potential long-
term liability exposures arising from the risk of carbon storage reversal. 
Second, as institutional investors re/insurers can provide financing for removal 
projects and infrastructure. Carbon removal is a long-term investment opportunity 
through which re/insurers can balance their long-term liabilities, and run a net-zero 
emissions asset portfolio strategy. And third, re/insurers can be early buyers of 
carbon removal certificates to balance their own operational footprint in pursuit of 
net-zero emissions. That footprint is small relative to other sectors, making first-
mover removal projects more affordable. By entering long-term offtake agreements 
and guaranteeing future revenues, re/insurers can be strong partners for the carbon 
removal industry, while also gaining access to its new risk pools and asset classes. 
For net-zero, emissions need to be 
reduced and residuals removed.
Without carbon pricing or policy 
mandates, carbon removal has lacked a 
business case. Nevertheless, the industry 
is now gaining a foothold. 
Nature-based solutions make use of 
scarce land resources, but come with 
many co-benefits.
Technical solutions for carbon removal 
carry higher costs, but the risk of storage 
reversal is lower. 
Re/insurers can support the carbon 
removal industry developments by taking 
on some of the associated risks,…
…by making long-term investments in 
removal projects and infrastructure, and 
by buying carbon removal services
Carbon removal is required to achieve 
net-zero emissions by 2050 and 
net-negative emissions long thereafter.
2 Swiss Re Institute The insurance rationale for carbon removal solutions
The case for carbon removal
A warming world
Rising temperatures are causing climate change effects of increasing visibility, 
frequency and severity. The increase in global temperatures is due to anthropogenic 
(man-made) greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. According to the Intergovernmental 
Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), human activity has caused approximately 1.0°C  
of global warming from pre-industrial levels.1 Since the beginning of the industrial 
revolution, humans have released 2 200 billion tonnes of carbon dioxide (CO2) into 
the atmosphere,2 half of it during the last three decades alone.3 Currently, the world 
emits around 40 billion tonnes of CO2 annually. Unabated, this emission rate would 
see the +1.5°C warming limit of the Paris target reached in 10 years, and the +2°C 
limit in 30 years.4 By the end of the century, temperatures would rise by between 
3.7°C and 4.8°C.5 Even if all emissions are halted immediately, GHGs will remain in 
the atmosphere for many centuries, exacerbating the impacts of climate change.6
Climate change is a systemic threat, with far-reaching consequences for the world 
and life as we know it. Increasing temperatures are melting the planet’s ice reservoirs 
and warming the oceans. Together these are leading to rising sea levels, and an 
increase in the frequency and severity of extreme weather events such as droughts, 
hurricanes or torrential rains. Beyond lasting implications on natural ecosystems – 
with climate change seen as one of the most important drivers for future biodiversity 
loss and ecosystem degradation – these physical changes will likely cause increased 
mortality and damage to human health, food and water scarcity, disease spread and 
more damage to and devaluation of property assets.7 From a broad economic 
perspective, a recent Swiss Re Institute report estimates that unabated from today, 
the physical effects of warming temperatures could result in an 18% loss to global 
gross domestic product by mid-century, relative to a world of no climate change.8 
A call by climate science
The global target of the Paris Agreement of 2015 is to limit global warming to well 
below 2°C, and preferably to 1.5°C. This is the cap that scientists say can still 
prevent the worst impacts of climate change. The IPCC says that limiting global 
warming to 1.5°C will require GHG emission cuts of 50% by 2030, and net-zero 
emissions by 2050.9 For net-zero, any residual emissions would have to  
be balanced by the same amount of negative emissions, in other words, permanent 
removal and storage of carbon from the atmosphere. This process is known as 
Carbon Dioxide Removal (CDR), or carbon removal. The IPCC further predicts that 
global emission levels would be required to stay net-negative (negative emissions > 
residual gross emissions) throughout the second half of the current century. By the 
year 2100, depending on how fast we start reducing emissions, the carbon removal 
industry will have to deliver cumulatively up to 1 000 billion tonnes of negative 
emissions. For context of scale, that is almost half of all that already has been 
emitted since pre-industrial times.10 Figure 1 shows four emission scenarios 
modelled by the IPCC that would allow limiting global warming to 1.5°C. Three 
1 
Global Warming of 1.5°C, IPCC, 2018.
2 
Ibid.
3 
More than half of all CO2 emissions since 1751 emitted in the last 30 years, Institute for European 
Environmental Policy, 29 April 2020.
4 
J. Rockström, et al., “The world’s biggest gamble”, Earth’s Future, vol 4, 2016.
5 
See “Contribution of Working Groups I, II and III to the Fifth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental 
Panel on Climate Change”, in Climate Change 2014: Synthesis Report, IPCC, 2014.
6 
CO2 emissions stay in the atmosphere for decades to centuries. It is estimated that even after 1 000 
years, 15–40% of the anthropogenic CO2 emissions remain in the atmosphere. Other GHG have shorter 
residence times in the atmosphere (eg, methane 12 years; NOx ~100 years) but exhibit a stronger 
greenhouse effect (eg, methane 25 times stronger radiative forcing than CO2; NOx ~300 times 
stronger). See Die Treibhausgase, German Environment Agency, 2020.
7 
E. S. Brondizio, J. Settele, S. Díaz, and H. T. Ngo (editors), Global assessment report on biodiversity and 
ecosystem services of the Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem 
Services, IPBES, 2019.
8 
The economics of climate change: no action not an option, Swiss Re Institute, April 2021
9 
IPCC, 2018, op. cit.
10 1750–2017: 2 200 billion tonnes CO2. See Ibid.
Carbon emissions have caused global 
temperatures to rise by 1.0°C already.
The effects of climate change are far 
reaching and will impact nature, humans, 
and the global economy.
Limiting global warming to 1.5°C 
requires emission cuts of 50% by 2030, 
net-zero emissions by 2050, and 
net-negative emissions thereafter. 
Swiss Re Institute The insurance rationale for carbon removal solutions 3
scenarios assume more or less stringent emission cuts starting immediately. Another 
assumes an initial high-emissions lifestyle (essentially current business-as-usual) that 
would, in turn, require even larger amounts of negative emissions later. 
Source: Swiss Re, based on Global Warming of 1.5°C, IPCC, 2018 (overlap of the scenarios P1-4).
The scenario illustrates three important findings. First, it will require deep emission 
cuts to follow the 1.5°C net-emission pathway, and the longer we wait, the steeper 
the reduction path will need to be. Second, even with best efforts to reduce 
emissions, there will be residual carbon release, meaning that emissions will not 
reach absolute zero this century. 
Third, the challenge is huge. In 2050, society must have the capacity to remove up 
to 10 billion tonnes of CO2 from the atmosphere every year: that’s a quarter of what 
is emitted each year today. It will take time to build that capacity, and work needs to 
start today, parallel to (not instead of) stringent emission reduction efforts. Later this 
century, it will take up to 20 billion tonnes of negative emissions each year to stay on 
track with the 1.5°C global warming target. As an analogy, 20 billion tonnes 
corresponds to today’s emissions generated by human consumption of all oil and gas 
products in one year: if it takes a trillion-dollar industry to provide for all the oil and 
gas that causes 20 billion tonnes of emissions today,11 it will take the next trillion-
dollar industry to remove that same amount from the atmosphere in 2050+.12
Certain hard-to-abate industries are more difficult and more expensive to 
decarbonise. Table 1 outlines how each sector contributes to GHG emissions. It 
shows current absolute and relative emissions alongside sector-specific reduction 
measures and key mitigation challenges. These help explain and reaffirm why 
negative emissions are a necessity if the world is to limit temperature rise to 1.5°C.13
11 The top 20 global oil and gas companies together had cumulative revenues of USD 3.4 trillion in 2020. 
See Global 500, Fortune, accessed on 8 February 2021.
12 An analogy shared in other publications. For example, An investor guide to negative emission 
technologies and the importance of land use, Vivid Economics, 2020; Global Climate Restoration for 
People, Prosperity and Planet, Arizona State University, 2020; “Occidental to Strip Carbon From the Air 
and Use It to Pump Crude”, Bloomberg Businessweek, accessed 13 January 2021.
13 For further reading, see “Special feature: Moving to a low-carbon future,” SONAR, Swiss Re, 2020.
Figure 1 
Net-emission pathways to limit global 
warming to 1.5°C 
2020
2010
2030
2040
2050
2060
2070
2080
2090
2100
–20
–10
0
10
20
30
40
Global CO2 emissions
billion tonnes per year
Net-zero
Residual emissions that cannot be reduced yet
Negative emissions required
to balance the residual emissions
Massive emission reductions
Business as usual emissions
Net-emission pathways
to limit warming to 1.5°C
Emissions from 
oil & gas today...
Even with best efforts to reduce GHG 
emissions, there will be residual carbon 
release into the atmosphere.
So much so that to hit Paris Agreement 
targets, carbon removal will need to 
reach a double-digit billion tonne scale.
Not all emissions can be readily reduced. 
Hence the need for negative emissions.
4 Swiss Re Institute The insurance rationale for carbon removal solutions
The case for carbon removal
Table 1  
Emissions, reduction measures and mitigation challenges, by sector14  15
Sector
Absolute (relative) emissions 
in billion tonnes CO2eq per year
Key reduction measures15 
(excluding general, cross-sectorial policy measures like carbon pricing, carbon-intensity mandates, etc)
Energy 
17 GtCO2
(34.6%)
 
– make global electricity production wholly renewable
 
– reappraise energy infrastructure: add electricity storage capacity; build robust and 
fast transmission/distribution lines, and smart, local grids.
 
– fuel switch (green/blue H2 and synthetic-/bio-methane) and fuel efficiency for 
back-up plants
Agriculture, 
forestry and other 
land use
11.8 GtCO2
(24%)
 
– decrease number of methane-producing livestock: change to plant-rich diets, and 
diversify protein consumption away from meat
 
– reduce waste/loss of crop and food
 
– optimise fertiliser use (precision farming, nitrification inhibitors, biochar)
 
– conserve existing and restore carbon pools (soils, forests) through improved land 
management, agricultural practices and fire prevention
Industry
10.3 GtCO2
(21%)
 
– increase energy and materials efficiency in manufacturing and construction 
 
– improve product design to lower embodied carbon and increase circularity (facilitate 
dismantling, sorting, re-using, re-cycling, product longevity)
 
– substitute raw materials with low carbon alternatives (eg, mass timber, carbon-fixing 
concrete)
 
– electrify production processes
 
– switch to renewable heat/process fuels and reactants (blue/green hydrogen)
 
– carbon capture (utilisation) and storage to decarbonise heavy industry, in particular 
cement and chemicals works
Transport
6.9 GtCO2
(14%)
 
– electrify light-duty road transport, mostly through battery electric vehicles
 
– modal shifts (increase public transport, more efficient modes for logistics) 
 
– fuel switch (biofuels, hydrogen/ammonia, synthetic fuels) in heavy-duty road 
transport, shipping and aviation
 
– improve fuel efficiency
 
– substitute and optimise travel (remote collaboration, longer/less trips, etc.)
Buildings 
(operations only)
3.1 GtCO2
(6.4%)
 
– improve buildings’ energy efficiency technology (appliances, heating etc)
 
– advance building automation and control systems/meters (smart building)
 
– building construction: replace fossil-fuelled building technology with low-carbon 
alternatives (rooftop solar, heat pumps, biofuels, district heating/cooling)
Source: Swiss Re Institute
14 Table is built on the Fifth Assessment Report by the IPCC (2014) and amended based on authors’ judgement and further literature as indicated separately: 
Climate Change 2014: Synthesis Report. Contribution of Working Groups I, II and III to the Fifth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate 
Change, IPCC, 2014. For further reference, other sources used were Climate Engineering: Risks, Challenges, Opportunities? German Research Foundation, 
January 2019; and CO2-neutral bis 2035: Eckpunkte eines deutschen Beitrags zur Einhaltung der 1,5-°C-Grenze, Wuppertal Institute, 2020.
15 See also SONAR 2020, Swiss Re, op. cit.
Swiss Re Institute The insurance rationale for carbon removal solutions 5
Key sector specific mitigation challenges16 
(excluding general, more broadly applicable challenges like lack of regulation, consumer preferences, economical/structural impediments, etc)
 
– fossil fuel subsidies of USD 333 billion per year (USD 5.3 trillion per year if the value of combustion-related externalities is included), 
creating a negative carbon price at production and consumption side17
 
– lack of seasonal storage options/capacity
 
– new renewable energy infrastructure competes for other land-use purposes, and may compromise habitat and biodiversity protection.
 
– energy security: increased demand for electricity outweighs addition of new renewable capacity, and old fossil power plants remain 
operational
 
– long investment cycles in energy infrastructure, causing a lock-in of emissions
 
– lack of de-risking for renewable energy investments in developing countries (reducing the cost of capital that weighs heavy on  
renewable assets)18
 
– population growth (food security)
 
– subsidies for unsustainable farming practices, with less than 5% of USD 600 billion in global agriculture subsidies going to  
conservation efforts19
 
– increasing share of meat in average diet
 
– higher land use per yield
 
– technical, economic, educational, cultural impediments to new (less intensive) agricultural or forestry practices
 
– lack of valuation of positive externalities from climate/biodiversity friendly agriculture and forestry (improved local air, soil, and water quality)
 
– unmitigated deforestation, including driven by land grab/speculation20
 
– increased frequency and severity of natural hazards (wildfire, droughts, storms)
 
– counter-productive subsidies that do not reduce the global warming footprint of agriculture, nor the negative impacts on biodiversity21
 
– food waste due to inefficient harvesting, transport and storage capacities
 
– compared to consumer-facing industries, hard-to-abate material producer sectors (cement, mining, textiles, chemicals, steel, aluminium) 
have the higher emission intensity (CO2/product) but smaller margins (income/product), making affordability of emission reduction 
measures challenging22
 
– long investment cycles for heavy machinery/processing plants
 
– performance and concerns about cost/willingness to pay by clients/consumers
 
– intransparency of supply chains
 
– increased demand for mobility 
 
– increase in global trade
 
– airplanes, trains and ships with increased longevity see total life-cycle adjusted usage cost decline, an argument to keep operating 
inefficient transport means/infrastructure
 
– lack of infrastructure prevents adoption at scale (eg, few supercharging stations for electric vehicles)
 
– transport infrastructure investments are long term and tie down capital. 
 
– slow renovation/renewal cycle for buildings (and energy intensive appliances)
 
– concerns over higher investment outweighs benefits from lower running cost23
 
– lack of access to financing
16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23
16 Engström et al., “Carbon pricing and planetary boundaries”, Nature Communications vol. 11, 2020
17 Measuring Fossil Fuel Subsidies in the Context of the Sustainable Development Goals. UNEP, OECD and IISD, 2019.
18 Derisking renewable energy investment. A Framework to Support Policymakers in Selecting Public Instruments to Promote Renewable Energy Investment in 
Developing Countries. UNDP, 2013.
19 Redirecting Agricultural Subsidies for a Sustainable Food Future, World Resources Group, 21 July 2020.
20 “Curb land gabbing to save the Amazon”, Nature Ecology & Evolution, vol 3, 2019.
21 L. Gubler, S.A. Ismail, I. Seidl, Biodiversity damaging subsidies in Switzerland, Swiss Academies Factsheet 15, 2020; and The Economics of Biodiversity:  
The Dasgupta Review, UK Treasury, 2021
22 Net-Zero Challenge: The supply chain opportunity World Economic Forum and Boston Consulting Group, 2021.
23 Energy savings can relatively quickly cover investment costs. See Global Energy Assessment. Cambridge University Press, 2012. The report estimates a 
USD 24 billion total investment need to realize ambitious climate goals for buildings, in contrast to cumulated USD 65 billion energy savings by 2050, induced 
by these investments.
6 Swiss Re Institute The insurance rationale for carbon removal solutions
The case for carbon removal
A new industry taking shape
To limit global warming to the Paris Agreement target, the case for carbon removal is 
clear, but the commercial rationale is still unfolding. Some carbon removal solutions 
are well established but have not yet been widely deployed. Others have not yet 
moved beyond early research stage. In the absence of universal carbon pricing 
policies and associated fees (polluter-pays-principle comparable to a municipal 
waste collection fee), polluters have little economic incentive to cut, collect and 
dispose of emissions. In other words, carbon removal still lacks a business case.
This situation has been changing since 2019, after the IPCC (at the request of the 
parties to the Paris Agreement) published its special report assessing what it will 
take to limit global warming to 1.5°C.24 The number of agents/companies developing 
carbon removal technologies, practices and services has increased notably since 
then.25 The scale-up plans reach from a few 10 000 tonnes removal today to 
hundreds of millions of tonnes by the end of the decade. The frontrunners are 
attracting investor interest, including those developing the least mature and most 
expensive solutions.26 
The private sector is the main driver of current momentum. Since early 2020, 
increasing numbers of companies have pledged to achieve net-zero emissions from 
their own operations, at times incorporating their supply and/or entire value chains. 
Some have pledged to reverse historic emissions altogether.27 Many (but not all) of 
the commitments acknowledge the need to balance unavoided emissions via carbon 
removal and some firms, including Swiss Re, have already bought first removal 
services.28, 29 Buyers require attestation that the service captures and stores a certain 
amount of carbon from the atmosphere. The attestation is usually in the form of a 
carbon certificate per tonne removed. The price of the certificate is the price a buyer 
is willing to pay voluntarily to compensate for unavoidable emissions. Thus the first 
business cases for carbon removal services are being built on the sales of carbon 
removal certificates, and 2019 saw the first market trading of such certificates.30
24 IPCC, 2018, op. cit.
25 See, for example “Remove carbon. Restore Forests”, pachama.com; “Enable removal of CO2 from the 
air”, climeworks.com, both accessed on 8 February 2021.
26 See, for example, “Pledge by Amazon: The Right Now Climate Fund”, us.1t.org; “Swiss Carbon Capture 
Startup Raises USD76m in Funding Round”, bloomberg.com, 2 June 2020; “Blamed for Climate 
Change, Oil Companies Invest in Carbon Removal”, The New York Times, 7 April 2019.
27 See, for example, Carbon Removal Coprorate Action Tracker, Institute of Carbon Removal Law & Policy, 
7 May 2020; Net-zero emissions: do our best, remove the rest, Swiss Re, 12 April 2020.
28 “Swiss-Re backed carbon removal market targets gigaton scale-up”, theenergyst.com, June 2020.
29 See, for example, R. Orbuch, “Stripe’s first carbon removal purchases”, stripe.com, 18 May 2020; 
“Fighting for the Future: Shopify Invests $5M in Breakthrough Sustainability Technologies”,  
shopify.com, 15 September 2020; Microsoft Carbon Removal – Lessons from an early corporate 
purchase, Microsoft, 2021.
30 For example, “Carbon removal starts here: The world’s first B2B marketplace, standard and registry 
focused solely on carbon removals”, puro.earth; “The Nori Carbon Removal Marketplace”, nori.com, 
both accessed on 8 February 2021.
The need for carbon removal is clear but 
the business case is still unfolding.
The industry is gaining a foothold...
...and the private sector is the main driver.
Swiss Re Institute The insurance rationale for carbon removal solutions 7
All told, the carbon removal industry is still in early stages of development. There is a 
long way to go and little time to reach the billion-tonnes scale of removals. Barriers to 
deployment exist along the entire value chain. Key constraints on the supply side 
include high cost and resource requirements, lack of economic incentives, lack of 
knowhow, resistance to change, as well as competition for land-use and 
uncertainties regarding the permanence of storage. On the demand side, first 
movers are inclined to wait and see in view of high initial prices (free-rider problem). 
Other demand-side constraints include lack of market access, lack of regulatory 
requirements, and the perception that supporting carbon removal may deter action 
to reduce emissions in the first place (moral hazard). Supply and demand equilibrium 
is being hampered by the lack of standardisation of carbon removal services, small 
transaction volumes, limited fungibility and lack of regulation of international 
transfers of removal outcomes.
All constraints aside, to answer the call of science and prevent the worst impacts  
of a warming world, the carbon removal industry will have to scale from some  
10 000 tonnes of negative emissions today to around 10 billion tonnes by 2050. 
That’s a factor increase of 1 million over a period of three decades, or a compound 
annual growth rate (CAGR) of close to 60%.31 To reiterate, the task is massive. Once 
the industry has taken shape, further scaling will require de-risking and finance. This 
is where re/insurers with appetite for the journey can play to their strengths.
31 Swiss Re estimates a CAGR of 58% to move from a few 10 kilotonnes of negative emissions services in 
2020 to 10 gigatonnes by 2050. If onset of scaling up carbon removal services is delayed to 2025, the 
CAGR rises to 74%. Delay to 2030 = CAGR of 100%.
The barriers to development of carbon 
removal span supply, marketplace and 
demand.
The carbon removal industry has to scale 
at an unprecedented speed. This requires 
de-risking and access to capital. 
8 Swiss Re Institute The insurance rationale for carbon removal solutions
The removal industry landscape
Carbon removal solutions differ in how atmospheric CO2 is captured, processed, 
transported and stored. They are often referred to as Negative Emissions 
Technologies (NETs), but not all rely on the deployment of technological means. 
There are three main categories of carbon removal solution (see Figure 2).
Nature-based solutions
that use biological processes 
to capture CO2 from the 
atmosphere and store it in the 
form of organic matter. 
Examples: aﬀorestation; soil 
carbon sequestration
Hybrid solutions
which combine nature-based 
and technological processes. 
Example: bioenergy and 
carbon capture and storage 
(BECCS)
Technological 
solutions that use 
engineering tools to ﬁlter CO2 
from air and store/process 
it in concentrated form.  
Example: direct air capture 
and storage (DACS)
Source: Swiss Re
Scientists agree that no single approach or solution has the scale potential to remove 
enough carbon to limit global warming to well below 2°C.32 As with other climate 
change mitigation strategies, a portfolio approach that exploits niches and synergies, 
aligns to the varied needs of communities, landscapes and economic priorities, and 
follows risk diversification, is required. The purpose of this chapter is to provide a 
better understanding of the carbon removal landscape, illustrated in Figure 3. The 
value chain of each solution — from CO2 capture from air, to processing, transport 
and permanent storage — is described. Thereafter, Table 2 provides an assessment 
of the solutions featuring key parameters such as cost, co-benefits and possible 
adverse effects.
32 IPCC, 2018, op. cit.
Nature-based, technological and hybrid 
solutions are the three main categories of 
carbon removal. 
Figure 2 
Three main categories of carbon  
removal solutions
To meet the capacity required, carbon 
removal solutions need to developed in 
parallel.
Swiss Re Institute The insurance rationale for carbon removal solutions 9
Nature-based 
solutions  
include 
1) 
Aﬀorestation 
– 
planting forests on previously 
woodless land, 2) Soil carbon 
sequestration – increasing soil organic 
matter through changes in land manage-
ment, 3) Blue carbon – fostering carbon 
uptake by wetlands; Technological solutions 
include: 4) Direct air capture and storage (DACS) – 
ﬁltering CO2 directly from air and storing it permanently, 
5) Enhanced weathering – fostering the ﬁxation of CO2 
through natural minerals,      6) Ocean alkalinisation – providing 
chemicals to ocean waters to foster the uptake of dissolved CO2;
Hybrid 
solutions include:     
7) Bioenergy with carbon capture 
& storage (BECCS) – extracting 
heat and power from biomass 
then capturing the resulting CO2 from 
the ﬂue gas and storing it, 8) Biochar – 
producing charcoal from biomass and using 
it eg, as soil amendment, 9) Ocean fertilisation – 
providing nutrients to foster algal growth;
Storage options for concentrated CO2 from BECCS 
and DACS are 10) geological reservoirs similar to an oil ﬁled 
(porous rock in great depth, sealed by impermeable caprock) or 
11) long-lived products such as aggregates, carbon ﬁbres, etc.
9-Ocean 
fertilization
2-Soil carbon sequestration
4-DACS
8-Biochar
1-Aﬀorestation
 7-BECCS
3-Blue carbon
6-Ocean
alkalinisation
5-Enhanced weathering
11-Long-
lived products
10-Geological storage
10-Geological storage
Figure 3 
Carbon removal landscape
Source: Swiss Re
10 Swiss Re Institute The insurance rationale for carbon removal solutions
The removal industry landscape
Nature-based solutions
Plants remove CO2 from the atmosphere through photosynthesis and use it as 
building blocks to produce their biomass (leaves, wood, roots), in which the carbon 
remains stored as long as the plant lives. Dead biomass decomposes and releases 
some carbon back to the atmosphere, and some is converted to humus or peat. Most 
nature-based solutions – like afforestation and practices to improve soil carbon 
sequestration are well-established and relatively inexpensive.33, 34 Other areas of 
nature-based carbon removal activity like blue carbon remain less explored.35 If 
undertaken correctly, nature-based solutions can yield co-benefits beyond carbon 
sequestration, including flood protection, drought resilience and other benefits like 
biodiversity conservation and the maintenance of essential ecosystem services.
On the downside, nature-based solutions require land and water resources. They 
compete for land with food and fodder production, and other human activities, 
which sets a limit to their economic feasibility and scalability.36 Moreover, they do 
not produce negative emissions instantaneously: it takes decades to grow a forest or 
accumulate humus.37 Another risk is the durability of storage due to environmental 
and human impacts. Global warming and changing precipitation alter the ability of 
trees and vegetation to sequester carbon, and wildfires or changes in land 
management may quickly release the CO2 back into the atmosphere. The three main 
nature-based solution types currently are afforestation and improved forest 
management, soil carbon sequestration and blue carbon.
Afforestation and improved forest management
Afforestation is the planting of trees on previously woodless land. Improved forest 
management seeks to increase the carbon stock of an existing forest.38
 ̤ Capture: trees and undergrowth capture carbon from the atmosphere via 
photosynthesis. 
 ̤ Processing: none. 
 ̤ Transport: moving seedlings or saplings to final planting site. 
 ̤ Storage: in the form of maturing and mature forests, including the living biomass 
and the carbon stored in forest soils. Note that the woody biomass may also be 
harvested and manufactured into long-lived construction materials like mass 
timber, which can remain (store carbon) in buildings for several decades. 
33 S. Fuss et al. “Negative emissions — Part 2: Costs, potentials and side effects”, Environmental Research 
Letters, vol. 13, 2018.
34 C. Beuttler, S. Keel, J. Leifeld, The Role of Atmospheric Carbon Dioxide Removal in Swiss Climate Policy, 
Federal Office for the Environment, October 2019.
35 Coastal Blue Carbon – methods for assessing carbon stocks and emissions factors in mangroves, tidal 
salt marshes, and seagrass meadows, Conservation International, IOC-UNESCO and IUCN, 2014.
36 P. Smith, et al., “Biophysical and economic limits to negative CO2 emissions”, Nature Publishing Group, 
Nature Climate Change, vol. 6, 2016.
37 Depending on species and geography, on average, a grown-up tree can absorb roughly 22 kg CO2 per 
year. See Forests, health and climate change, European Environment Agency, 2011. As a sapling, it will 
absorb much less. It takes a UK broadleaf tree its full lifetime of ~100 years to capture 1 tonne of CO2. 
See How much CO2 can trees take up? The Grantham Institute, 2015.
38 Note that in the context of climate protection, forest management strategies can lead to: 1) emission 
avoidance: upholding the existing forest carbon stock, also known as avoided deforestation; 2) emission 
reversal: restoring the forest carbon stock of a recently degraded forest, also known as reforestation; or 
3) negative emissions through afforestation or improved forest management. All three are important 
measures to mitigate climate change, but only afforestation and improved forest management should 
be counted as carbon removal. In practice, af- and reforestation are often used interchangeably, as there 
is no consensus on the time scale to be applied for defining “recently degraded” for “previously 
woodless”. The Economist Intelligence Unit (2020) suggests that planting on land that has been 
woodless for at least 50 years qualifies as afforestation, and less than that as reforestation.
Nature-based solutions use plants to 
capture CO2 from air. They can harness 
many co-benefits…
.. but face limits of scalability. Results 
also take a long time to realise.
Afforestation is the planting of new trees 
to increase the carbon stock of forests.
Swiss Re Institute The insurance rationale for carbon removal solutions 11
Soil carbon sequestration
Through regenerative agricultural practices, soils accumulate organic matter in the 
form of sub-surface biomass and humus. The aim of soil carbon sequestration is to 
deploy land management practices that either increase the carbon input to soils 
(through cover crops, crop rotations, manure/compost/residue addition, improved 
grazing management) or decrease the carbon loss from soils (no-/low-tillage, switch 
from annual to perennial crops and grasses).39
 ̤ Capture: via plant biomass growth and decomposition, atmospheric CO2 ends up 
in soils. 
 ̤ Storage: in the form of soil organic matter.
Blue carbon
This is the conservation and restoration of coastal wetlands (mangroves, seagrass 
meadows, salt marshes, macroalgae) and freshwater peatlands, which can 
sequester more carbon faster than any other ecosystem.40, 41 However, there are 
gaps in the understanding of sequestration rates and how humans can optimally (or 
negatively) influence them.42
 ̤ Capture: via plant biomass growth and decomposition, atmospheric CO2 ends up 
in wetland ecosystems.
 ̤ Transport: moving seeds and saplings to planting sites. 
 ̤ Storage: in the form of the living biomass, soil carbon, peat and sediments that 
accumulate in wetlands. 
39 K. Paustian, E. Larson, J. Kent, E. Marx, A. Swan, Soil carbon sequestration as a biological negative 
emission strategy. Frontiers in Climate, 16 October 2019.
40 D. Herr et al., Coastal “blue” carbon. International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural 
Resources, 2015.
41 D. Gordon, B.C. Murray, L Pendleton and B. Victor, Financing Options for Blue Carbon: Opportunities 
and Lessons from the REDD+ Experience. Nicholas Institute for Environmental Policy Solutions, Duke 
University, 2011.
42 Conservation International, IOC-UNESCO, and IUCN, 2014, op. cit. These bodies classify five areas in 
which further research is still needed: geography, sequestration and storage, emissions and removals, 
human drivers of ecosystem degradation, and coastal erosion.
Regenerative agricultural practices 
increase the carbon stock in soils.
Restoration and conservation of coastal 
zones and wetlands increase the carbon 
stock in these ecosystems. 
12 Swiss Re Institute The insurance rationale for carbon removal solutions
The removal industry landscape
Technological solutions
Technological solutions use industrial processes to remove atmospheric CO2 for 
capturing, storage or both. They rely on machinery, processing or storage 
infrastructure, as well as logistics to transport the captured concentrated CO2 
products. The steps are energy intensive. The energy used should be from renewable 
sources to prevent putting new CO2 into the atmosphere while removing what is 
already there. For example, to capture one tonne of CO2 directly from the air using 
current filter technologies requires 2 300 kWh of energy, equivalent to the energy 
content in 0.2 tonnes of oil.43 Producing, transporting and burning 0.2 tonnes of oil 
releases roughly 0.6 tonnes of CO2. If the energy to capture 1 tonne of CO2 from air 
came from oil, the net benefit would be just 0.4 tonnes of CO2 capture.44
Technological solutions are more capital- and operating-expenditure intensive than 
nature-based alternatives. Also, the co-benefits involved are fewer and less obvious 
(eg, job creation, re-purposing of stranded infrastructure,45 innovation spill-over).46 
This helps explain why technological solutions are still at an early stage of 
development and deployment. In the absence of stringent carbon pricing, mandates 
or voluntary buyers, there has been little business justification to develop expensive 
equipment to clean the air of CO2. On the upside, land requirements are small and 
the storage in chemical or geological systems is more durable than the storage 
potential of biological systems. The two main technological solutions are currently 
direct air capture and storage, and enhanced weathering.
Direct air capture and storage (DACS)
CO2 is filtered directly from ambient air, compressed and then injected into 
geological formations deep underground for permanent storage.
 ̤ Capture: through chemical filters in air processing units, CO2 is brought from only 
0.04% concentration in the air to close to 100% concentration in the resulting  
gas product. This separation task requires electricity to drive sufficient amounts of 
air through the unit (10–20% of total energy), and heat to regenerate the filters 
(80–90% of total energy).47 
 ̤ Processing: after capture, the concentrated CO2 stream is liquified in compressors 
(>65 bar at ambient temperature). 
 ̤ Transport: air capture units are ideally co-located at a renewable energy source or 
a storage site or both, so that air capture can take place anywhere (independent 
from a CO2 point source). Therefore, only limited or no CO2 transport infrastructure 
– such as long-distance pipelines – is required. 
 ̤ Storage: the compressed, liquified CO2 is pumped through an injection well into 
geological structures, usually at 800 (minimum) to 2 500 (maximum) metres 
depth. Like oil or gas fields, these structures consist of porous rock topped by a 
layer of dense caprock. Once injected at a pressure slightly above the reservoir 
pressure (minimum 80 bar, well below fracturing pressure), physical and chemical 
processes stabilise the CO2 over time.48 A benefit of storing CO2 geologically is 
that existing depleted oil and gas fields can be re-filled using old infrastructure.
43 Energy consumption of direct air capture technology is ~200 tonnes oil equivalent (toe) per tonne CO2 
captured. Burning a tonne of oil roughly emits ~3 tonnes of CO2. See Direct Air Capture – more efforts 
needed, International Energy Agency (IEA), June 2020,
44 Ibid.
45 “Stranded infrastructure” are infrastructure assets that seen premature write-down due to economic or 
unexpected regulatory reasons. For example, fossil energy infrastructure like an oil pipeline may be 
re-purposed to serve for CO2 transport.
46 J. Minx et al “Negative emissions – Part 1: Research landscape and synthesis”, Environmental Research 
Letters, vol 13, 2018.
47 IEA, June 2020, op. cit.
48  Within the storage reservoir, the CO2: 1) is trapped physically beneath the cap rock (structural trapping, 
immediately effective): 2) gets immobilized in the form of trillions of tiny bubbles behind pore necks 
(residual trapping, immediately effective); then 3) starts dissolving in the pore fluid and sinks to the 
bottom (dissolution trapping, takes years to centuries); and later 4) reacts with the rock to form stable 
mineral carbonates (mineral trapping, takes decades to millennia). Over time, these four sequential 
trapping mechanisms transform CO2 into ever more durable forms of storage. See Special Report on 
Carbon Capture and Storage, IPCC, 2005.
Technological solutions use engineering 
tools to remove carbon, and require lots 
of renewable energy. 
Technological solutions are still at an 
early stage of development. 
DACS deploys filter machines to capture 
CO2 directly from air. 
Swiss Re Institute The insurance rationale for carbon removal solutions 13
In North America, CO2 injection into maturing oil fields through one well is practiced 
to produce more oil in another well nearby. This is known as Enhanced Oil Recovery 
(EOR). In theory, more CO2 can be injected and sequestered than that emitted 
through downstream oil usage. Another special case for geological CO2 storage has 
been demonstrated in Iceland, where captured CO2 is pre-dissolved in water and 
then injected into basalts, a type of rock that react with the CO2 to form stable 
minerals.49
Air captured CO2 can be processed into long-lived products like carbon fibre, 
aggregates and other building blocks for concrete and precipitated calcium 
carbonate. This is referred to as ‘carbontech’, or carbon capture, utilisation and 
storage (CCUS). Currently, carbontech makes use of just some 200 MtCO2 per 
annum, including CO2 used for EOR and short-lived products such as synthetic fuels 
or plastics (= carbon capture and utilisation, CCU), meaning it plays/will likely play 
just a small role in the global quest to deliver gigatons of negative emissions (see also 
Carbon removal vs. carbon capture and storage: what are the differences? on p15).
Enhanced weathering
Chemical weathering is the natural process by which rock surface gets attacked 
when exposed to atmospheric CO2 dissolved in water. This process can be 
enhanced by enlarging the surface area of suitable rocks and optimally exposing 
them to rain- or ocean water.50
 ̤ Capture: alkaline rock such as olivine is mined and finely ground to increase 
surface area before being spread evenly over soil or beaches. CO2 in water forms 
carbonic acid that attacks and dissolves the rock grains, thereby forming a stable 
mineral/bicarbonate solution. Enhanced weathering can also be carried out in an 
engineered reactor where temperature, pressure and pH conditions can be varied 
to increase the speed of reactions (mineral carbonation, or mineralisation).51
 ̤ Processing: mining and grinding rock. 
 ̤ Transport: from the mine/grinder to the weathering sites using trucks, trains and 
ships. 
 ̤ Storage: chemically fixed as bicarbonate solution (pore-, surface-, ocean water) 
and eventually precipitated as carbonate minerals.
49 See, for example, the Carbfix project in Iceland.
50 R. D Schuiling, P. Krijgsman, “Enhanced Weathering: An Effective and Cheap Tool to Sequester CO2”, 
Climatic change, vol 74, 2006. See also D.J. Beerling, E.P. Kantzas, et al., “Potential for large-scale CO2 
removal via enhanced rock weathering with croplands. Nature, vol 583, 2020.
51 K. Lackner et al., “Carbon dioxide disposal in carbonate minerals”, Energy, vol 20,1995.
In concentrated form, the CO2 can be 
stored in geological formations...
...and also in long-lived products.
Enhanced weathering accelerates the 
natural process by which minerals can 
bind CO2 dissolved in water. 
14 Swiss Re Institute The insurance rationale for carbon removal solutions
Hybrid solutions
Hybrid solutions seek to combine and reap the benefits of different features of 
nature-based and technological approaches. What nature does best is sun-powered 
air capture through photosynthesis. Technology, on the other hand, is better at 
converting CO2 into durable forms of storage.
Bioenergy with carbon capture and storage (BECCS)
Biomass is converted to heat and power in a power plant or to energy carriers like 
ethanol, methanol or biogas in an industrial facility. The conversion results in 
biogenic CO2 that is separated from the off-gas through conventional point source 
carbon capture methods. The concentrated CO2 can be sent for geological storage 
or processed into long-lived products. The “CCS” part of BECCS is the same as the 
conventional carbon capture and storage value chain to decarbonise large point 
sources of CO2 such as coal fired power plants (see also Carbon removal vs. carbon 
capture and storage: what are the differences? below)52
 ̤ Capture: the first step of capturing of CO2 from the air is through photosynthesis in 
plants. 
 ̤ Processing: plant biomass is harvested and burned, or converted to biofuels and 
other chemicals. The resulting biogenic CO2 can be then stripped relatively easily 
from the flue gas/process gas using conventional CO2 capture methods (eg, 
amine scrubbing).53 This is the second capture step in BECCS. The concentrated 
CO2 is then compressed and sent for storage. 
 ̤ Transport: two main steps: 1) moving biomass from the field/forest to the 
processing plants: and 2) from there, moving compressed or liquified CO2 in 
pipelines (typically at 100 bar pressure, ambient temperature) or using trucks/
trains (~20 bar, –20°C) or ships (at 7 bar, –50°C) to a storage site. Ideally biomass 
source and storage sites are in close proximity to keep transport costs to a 
minimum.54
 ̤ Storage: the storage options are the same as for DACS.
Biochar
Biochar results from heating biomass under lack of oxygen (pyrolysis). It consists of 
carbon black which decomposes very slowly under natural conditions, rendering 
biochar a more durable carbon storage form than the original biomass. It is usually 
added to degraded topsoil to improve soil fertility.
 ̤ Capture: plant growth captures carbon from the atmosphere through 
photosynthesis.
 ̤ Processing: the plant biomass is converted into biochar in a pyrolysis plant. 
Pyrolysis produces a methane and hydrogen rich off-gas (syngas) that can be 
used to power the pyrolysis process or be upgraded to synthetic biofuels. 
 ̤ Transport: biomass is moved from the field/forest to the pyrolysis plant, and the 
biochar from that plant to its place of use.55 
 ̤ Storage: in the form of carbon black, which is stable over decades when used as 
building blocks in the construction or chemical industries,56 and can also be used 
for soil amelioration.57
52 IPCC, 2005, op. cit.
53 Note that conventional CO2 capture from a flue gas containing 4–25% CO2 requires much less energy 
than direct capture from air containing only 0.04% CO2. As a rule of thumb, cost of capture scales 
linearly with dilution (Sherwood’s Rule).
54 IPCC, 2005, op. cit.
55 Mobile pyrolysis units could be used to process the biomass and return the biochar on field site. See  
“Use of mobile fast pyrolysis plants to densify biomass and reduce biomass handling costs – a 
preliminary assessment,” Biomass and Bioenergy, vol 30, 2006.
56 “Application of the biochar-based technologies as the way of realization of the sustainable development 
strategy”, Economic and Environmental Studies, Opole University, vol. 17, 2017
57 J. Lehmann, S. Joseph, Biochar for environmental management, first edition. Earthscan, 2009.
Hybrid solutions combine nature-based 
and technological solutions. 
BECCS converts biomass to energy, and 
captures and stores the resulting 
biogenic CO2 from the flue gas.
Heating biomass under lack of oxygen 
produces biochar that is more durable 
than the original biomass.
The removal industry landscape
Swiss Re Institute The insurance rationale for carbon removal solutions 15
Other solutions
Other less-developed carbon removal solutions include ocean fertilisation and 
alkalinisation. These accelerate the natural carbon cycle by modifying ocean 
chemistry towards a higher CO2 uptake rate.
 ̤ Ocean fertilisation provides the missing nutrient – mostly iron – that controls 
algal growth directly in the surface water at high sea. Algae (phytoplankton) 
grows and absorbs CO2 through photosynthesis. It then dies and sinks, creating  
a carbon flux to the ocean floor.
 ̤ Ocean alkalinisation provides alkaline brines directly to oceans to raise the pH of 
the water and allow more uptake of atmospheric CO2. The alkalinity is derived 
from minerals (silicates, limestone) or industrial by-products (ashes, desalination 
brines). 
There is still much uncertainty with respect to the effectiveness and adverse impacts 
on ocean ecology of these solutions, which merits further research before 
considering large-scale deployment.58
58 Uncharted Waters: Expanding the Options for Carbon Dioxide Removal in Coastal and Ocean 
Environments, Energy Futures Initiative, 2020.
Other approaches to carbon removal are 
less developed...
...and entail many unknowns.
16 Swiss Re Institute The insurance rationale for carbon removal solutions
The removal industry landscape
Carbon removal vs. carbon capture and storage: what are the differences?
The terms carbon removal and carbon capture and storage (CCS, or simply carbon 
capture) are often used interchangeably, but there are important differences. Carbon 
removal is the capture and storage of CO2 from the atmosphere for the sake of 
producing negative emissions. CCS is the capture and storage of CO2 from the flue 
gas of large industrial point sources for the sake of reducing emissions from fossil 
fuel use.59 There are overlaps in the CCS value chain, and that of BECCS and DACS, 
which all provide concentrated atmospheric CO2 post capture. The three processes 
can share the same CO2 transport and storage infrastructure. In the case of BECCS 
and CCS, the point source capture technology is the same.
Another area of confusion is the fate of the CO2 once captured, in particular when it 
comes to carbon balance. CO2 can be stored geologically as in the original CCS 
value chain. It can be converted to short-lived products that will release the captured 
CO2 upon consumption, known as carbon capture and utilisation (CCU), or it can be 
converted to long-lived products that hold CO2 for a long time, called carbon capture, 
utilisation and storage (CCUS). Depending on the origin of the CO2 (fossil derived or 
biogenic/directly from air), the three routes lead to a carbon balance that is positive 
(more emissions), neutral (emissions are avoided) or negative (carbon is removed).
The CCUS route is preferable over geological storage, because it gives value to 
rather than disposing of CO2 emissions as a waste product. However, the bulk 
market currently open to receive CO2 from an external source is just some 40 million 
tonnes/year,60 and most of that takes the CCU rather than CCUS route. This is well 
short of the need for many billion tonnes of emissions to be sequestered to balance 
residual and legacy emissions in line with the 1.5°C warming limit. That is why most 
of the concentrated CO2 coming from BECCS and DACS plants will eventually have 
to take the geological storage route.
59 Twenty years ago, CCS emerged as a means to decarbonise coal- and gas-fired power plants at a time 
when new renewables were still prohibitively expensive. Today, utility-scale wind and solar are the 
cheapest energy source in many parts of the world, thus the role of CCS in the power sector will likely be 
limited. CCS remains, however, a solution to decarbonise hard-to-abate industrial sectors like cement.
60 Total bulk CO2 market is 230 MtCO2/year (Putting CO2 to use, IEA,2019). Of this 130Mt/yr are for urea 
production and stem mostly from the process itself (CO2 from methane reforming to produce ammonia), 
and 70–80 Mt/yr are used for EOR, where to date only ~20% stem from anthropogenic sources, the 
rest being deliberately produced from natural CO2 reservoirs in deep geological formations. See Climate 
Intervention: Carbon Dioxide Removal and Reliable Sequestration, National Academy of Science, 2015.
The value chains of BECCS, DACS and 
CCS overlap.
CCUS produces long-lived products that 
effectively store CO2. CCU produces 
short-lived products that don’t store CO2.
CCUS is limited in storage capacity. The 
bulk of the concentrated CO2 has to go to 
geological storage.
Swiss Re Institute The insurance rationale for carbon removal solutions 17
Figure 4 
Overlap between carbon removal and CCS value chains
 
CO2 from 
atmosphere
Photo-
synthesis
Biomass
Geological
processes
Millions of years
Coal, oil, gas
Combustion
(point-source)
CO2 into 
atmosphere
CO2
capture
concentrated
CO2
Geological
storage
Utilization &
storage
Long-lived products
(eg, concrete)
Utilization
CO2 into
atmosphere
Short-lived products
(eg, synfuels)
Air capture
Biomass
processing
Bio-diesel,
wood, etc.
Today
Main input
Fossil fuels 
Output
Heat/power,
industrial
products 
Heat/power,
industrial
products 
Heat/power,
industrial
products 
CO2 balance
Positive
CCS
more fuel
Neutral
BECCS
Biomass (land, 
water, fertilizer)
Negative
DACS
Heat/power
from renewables
–
Negative
Neutral for fossil CO2
Negative for bio/air CO2
CCUS
Heat/power
(from renewables)
Long-lived products
Positive for fossil CO2
Neutral for bio/air CO2
CCU
Heat/power
(from renewables)
Short-lived products
CCS
CCUS
CCU
BECCS
DACS
Source: Swiss Re
18 Swiss Re Institute The insurance rationale for carbon removal solutions
The removal industry landscape
Table 2  
Carbon removal solutions: literature-based assessment61
Method
Readiness62
Cost today
USD/tCO263
Energy  
requirement
GJ/tC02
Land requirement 
ha/tCO2/yr
Scalability64
Nature-based solutions
Afforestation 
(AF), improved 
forest 
management 
(IMF)
Mature
Available at large 
scale
1–100
–65
0.03 – 0.766
Low
Barriers to upscaling:
 
– land requirement creates competition with crop 
and fodder production, and conservational goals
 
– full removal potential unfolds over several 
decades, for as long as a forest grows. A 
fully-grown forest cannot remove more carbon
 
– concerns about permanence
 
– lack of incentives/valuation of ecosystem/climate 
services 
 
– lack of demand for wood in most markets
Soil carbon 
sequestration 
(SCS)
Early adoption –  
mature
 
– mostly available 
at large scale (a 
few practices 
such as 
perennialisation 
are still pre-
mature) 
0–4067
–68
–69
Low
Barriers to upscaling:
 
– lack of incentives for widespread adoption, 
including challenges for farmers when subsidy 
systems are tied to high yield of monocultural 
commodity crops
 
– resistance to change of established practices 
 
– risks associated with transitioning of practices, 
such as impact on yield and labour in the farming 
practice transition phase 
 
– competing land uses
 
– time taken for soil carbon to build up
 
– difficulties/uncertainties in measuring soil carbon
 
– concerns about permanence
Blue carbon 
(BC)
Prototype 
– mature
from prototypes 
(eg, marine 
permaculture) to 
available at large 
scale (eg, mangrove 
restoration)
10–10070
–71
0.272
Low73
Barriers to upscaling:
 
– conflicts of use in coastal zones
 
– lack of incentives for conservation and restoration
 
– water pollution
 
– concerns about permanence
 
– negative public perception of mangroves and 
wetlands 
61 The editorial deadline to compile this table was 28 February 2021.
62 Innovation needs in the Sustainable Development Scenario – Clean Energy Innovation Flagship Report: IEA, 2020. Prototype = TRL 4–6, Demonstration = 
TRL 7–8, Early adoption = TRL 9–10 (TRL 10 defined by IEA as “Solution is commercial and competitive but needs further integration efforts”), Mature = TRL 
11, defined by IEA as “Proof of stability reached, with predictable growth”. Comments on the development status adapted from G. F. Nemet, et al. “Negative 
Emissions - Part 3: Innovation and upscaling”, Environmental research letters, vol 13, 2018.
63 Adapted from Fuss et al. 2018, op. cit.
64 Categories defined based on average cumulative potential in GtCO2 by the year 2100, complied from literature by Minx et al. 2018, op. cit., Table 2: Low = 0–150 
Gt, medium = 151–300 Gt, high = >301GtCO2. Note that the potential of the individual carbon removal solutions are not necessarily additive as solutions compete 
for limited land, biomass feedstock, and suitable geological storage capacity. Comments on the limitations status adapted from Nemet et al., 2018 op. cit.
65 Af- and Reforestation, and Improved Forest Management have been found to require no additional energy input compared to conventional forest management. 
Numbers difficult to pinpoint
66 Land Use, Land-Use Change and Forestry, IPCC, 2000.
67 Informed by P. Smith, “Soil carbon sequestration and biochar as negative emissions technologies”, Global Change Biology, vol 22, 2016, and current market 
intelligence.
68 SCS has been found to require no additional energy input compared to conventional land management. Numbers difficult to pinpoint.
69 SCS requires no additional land beyond what is already used for agriculture.
70 Not assessed by Fuss et al. 2018, op. cit. Cost based on authors’ judgement and What is Blue Carbon? American University
71 No reliable calculations or estimations available
72 Number refers only to specific mangrove plantations, other wetland ecosystems may be different. D. M. Alongi 2012, “Carbon sequestration in mangrove 
forests”, Carbon Management, vol 3, 2012; O. J. Eeon, “Mangroves – a carbon source and sink”, Chemosphere vol 27, 1993.
73 Not assessed by Minx et al., 2018, op. cit. According to Griscom et al. in “Natural climate solutions”, PNAS, 2017. Afforestation and improved forest 
management together have a yearly potential of 3.9 GtCO2/year in 2030, whereas coastal wetland and peatland restoration together have 0.6 GtCO2/year.
Swiss Re Institute The insurance rationale for carbon removal solutions 19
Permanence of storage74 
Possible co-benefits75
Possible adverse effects76
Low77
Risk of reversal from:
 
– illegal and legal deforestation 
(policy changes)
 
– slow degradation (global warming, 
pests)
 
– natural hazards (wildfires, storms)
 
– protection and creation of habitats that 
conserve and enhance biodiversity
 
– prevention of soil erosion
 
– improved water quality/retention, local air 
quality and (micro-) climatic conditions
 
– reversal of desertification
 
– job creation in forestry and eco-tourism
 
– revenue from sustainable timber
 
– ill-managed afforestation efforts 
(monoculture tree plantations, planting in 
species-rich ecosystems like savanna) can 
harm biodiversity and livelihood of local 
communities (displacement)
 
– food security compromised
 
– large water needs for projects in dry zones
 
– tree coverage may reduce albedo 
(reflection of sunlight back into space), 
particularly in snow-rich regions, which 
may exacerbate global warming78
Low
Risk of reversal from:
 
– going back to original practices (eg, 
change of ownership of the land, 
policy changes, cease of incentives)
 
– environmental changes and 
hazards (floods, droughts)
 
– improved crop yields after transition time with 
possible lower yields for a few years
 
– lower expenses for fertiliser, irrigation and crop 
protection chemicals, which also reduce 
environmental impacts on soil, water, air, fauna 
and human health
 
– increased soil resilience and microbial 
biodiversity 
 
– improved water retention (flood protection)
 
– improved water quality due to lower fertiliser 
inputs and runoff, and less soil washing into 
waterways
 
– significant reductions in other GHG emissions 
(eg, methane, N₂O)
 
– possible increase of other GHG emissions 
(N2O)
. 
Low79
Risk of reversal from:
 
– land-use change/cease of 
conservation policies 
 
– coastal wetlands vulnerable to sea 
level rise and increased storm 
frequency/intensity
 
– intact coastal wetlands protect the coast and 
inland against storm surge and other storm-
related impacts
 
– increased biodiversity/restoring fish stock
 
– improved water quality/ food security for local 
communities
 
– job creation/protection (food, fishery, tourism)
 
– increased trace GHG emissions (CH4, 
N2O)
74 Authors’ judgment: low = decades, medium = centuries, high = millennia. Indication of risk of storage reversal adapted from Fuss et al., 2018 op. cit.
75 Adapted from Fuss et al., 2018, op. cit.
76 Ibid.
77 C.f. 10–100 years contracted durability for forest projects, Microsoft, 2021 op. cit.
78 C. A. Williams, et al., “Climate impacts of US forest loss span net warming to net cooling, “Science Advances, vol 7, 2021.
79 Not assessed by Fuss et al. 2018, op. cit.. The permanence constraints with underlying risks of storage reversal are, however, not dissimilar from afforestation 
(eg, mangroves) and soil carbon sequestration (eg, salt marshes).
20 Swiss Re Institute The insurance rationale for carbon removal solutions
The removal industry landscape
Method
Readiness62
Cost today
USD/tCO263
Energy  
requirement
GJ/tCO2
Land requirement 
ha/tCO2/yr
Scalability64
Technological solutions
Direct air 
capture and 
storage (DACS)
Prototype
Three front-running 
companies 
(Climeworks (CH), 
Carbon Engineering 
(CA), Global 
Thermostat (US)) 
run prototypes. 
Later in 2021, 
Climeworks will 
open the world’s 
first pre-commercial 
demonstration80 
600–100081
6.7-12.382
<0.00183
High
Barriers to upscaling:
 
– high cost (as a consequence of low technology 
readiness and resource/energy intensity due to 
physical/thermodynamic constraints)
 
– high demand of (clean) energy
 
– slow development of geological storage 
infrastructure, also due to lack of public 
acceptance (fear of leakage)
 
– lack of consistent regulation and standards
Enhanced 
weathering 
(EC)
Prototype
Early applications 
only84
50–20085
12.586
<0.0187
Medium
Barriers to upscaling:
 
– fundamental understanding of impacts/
effectiveness 
 
– very slow sequestration rates 
 
– cost of transport of minerals 
Hybrid solutions
Bioenergy with 
carbon capture 
and storage 
(BECCS)
Demonstration
Limited number of 
full-scale 
demonstration 
plants88
15–400
Energy 
production 
0.8-10.989
0.03 – 0.590
High
Barriers to upscaling:
 
– cost of industrial capture and storage
 
– availability/accessibility of biomass (competition 
with other uses, eg, biofuels)
 
– competition for agricultural land if biomass stems 
from dedicated energy crops (if biomass stems 
from forests, more tonnes of CO2 can be stored 
per land area with BECCS compared to AF/IMF, 
because the forest biomass can be harvested 
several times)
 
– lack of consistent regulation and standards
Biochar
Demonstration 
– early adoption
Available, but 
applied today only 
at small scale
20–12091
Energy 
production 
0.1–5.192
0 – 0.0193
Medium
Barriers to upscaling:
 
– cost of pyrolysis
 
– constraints on resource availability as with BECCS 
 
– uncertainties in assessing the cumulative climate 
effects (including adverse) of biochar soil 
amendments
80 Climeworks’ Orca plant, at the Carbfix storage site, Iceland (see https://www.carbfix.com/direct-air-capture)
81 Estimate includes publicly available price point (USD 775/tCO2, purchased by Stripe in May 2020) for Climeworks CDR services in Iceland. 
82 Lower bound estimate based on International Energy Agency (IEA), 2020, op. cit. Upper bound based on P. Smith, S. Davis, F. Creutzig, et al., “Biophysical and 
economic limits to negative CO2 emissions,” Nature Climate Change, vol 6, 2015. 
83 Ibid.
84 For example, Project Vesta and Greensand.
85 Adapted from Fuss et al. 2018, op. cit., and authors’ judgment
86 P. Smith, S. Davis, F. Creutzig et al. 2015, op. cit.
87 Ibid.
88 For example, DRAX, DPecatur, Illinois Industrial CCS facility
89 P. Smith, S. Davis, F. Creutzig, et al. 2015, op. cit.
90 Ibid.
91 Adapted from Fuss et al. 2018, op. cit. and authors’ judgment; Greenhouse Gas Removal (GGR) policy options – Final Report, Vivid Economics, 2019.
92 Between 13% and 47% of the energy in the source biomass is converted into a useful form such as syngas or bio-oil (K.Crombie and O.Mašek. “Pyrolysis 
biochar systems, balance between bioenergy and carbon sequestration.” Gcb Bioenergy, 2015). These factors have been applied to the energy production 
from BECCS in reference 89. 
93 Biochar can require no additional land beyond that used for agriculture/forestry if waste feedstocks are used. If dedicated crops are grown, there can be a land 
footprint. Upper bound from P. Smith, 2016, op. cit.
Swiss Re Institute The insurance rationale for carbon removal solutions 21
Permanence of storage74 
Possible co-benefits75
Possible adverse effects76
High
Risk of reversal from:
 
– leakage along faulty/
abandoned wells
 
– undiscovered caprock 
deficiencies
 
– slow migration out of 
the storage reservoir 
together with formation 
fluids 
 
– job creation/ preservation (for oil & gas industry 
transitioning to new business model; CO2-as-a-
service, “reverse the pump”)94
 
– repurposing of idle infrastructure
 
– scientific insights and innovation spill-over benefits
 
– parasitic environmental impacts from DAC supply 
chain (metals, chemicals, other materials) and 
clean energy sources (and their supply chains)
 
– induced seismicity during geological storage 
operation
 
– in case of leakage: contamination of groundwater 
with displaced reservoir fluids, if CO2 makes its 
way to surface (eg, along well casing), human 
health risk through asphyxiation (CO2 is heavier 
than air and may accumulate in ditches, pits, etc.)
Low – high
Risk of reversal from:
 
– changes in water 
chemistry (eg, drainage 
from soils, external 
disturbances, including 
acid rain)
 
– adding certain minerals to leached soil improves 
soil fertility (nutrients, higher pH, nutrient retention 
capacity, moisture retention) and thus crop yields
 
– job creation/ preservation in mining
 
– repurposing of idle infrastructure
 
– potential heavy metal release 
 
– negative ecological/social impact of mineral 
extraction and transport
 
– health risks related to fine-grain matter
High
Risk of reversal same as 
for DACS (see above)
 
– biomass can substitute fossil fuels to produce 
baseload energy (covering production/ seasonal 
gaps of intermittent renewables)
 
– energy independence if local biomass resources can 
replace imported fossil fuels
 
– preservation of assets (retro-fitting of fossil fuel 
power plants)
 
– undergrowth removed from forests and used for 
BECCS reduces the risk of severe wildfires 
 
– job creation (agro/ forestry) and preservation (power)
 
– CCS retrofitted to waste-to-energy plants is partially 
BECCS, depending on the biogenic waste fraction
 
– similar potential adverse impacts as for nature-
based solutions, in particular afforestation. Eg, 
negative ecological and social impact from land 
use change/monoculture tree plantations 
 
– growing dedicated energy crops compromises 
food/fodder security and bears risk of 
deforestation
 
– same geological storage-related risks as for DACS 
(see above)
 
– undergrowth removed from forests can diminish 
forest ecosystem integrity 
Medium
Risk of reversal from:
 
– slow decay (mostly 
through microbial 
metabolism) depending 
on soil type, soil 
management and 
environmental conditions
 
– improved soil fertility (nutrient and moisture 
retention capacity) and thus crop yields95
 
– reduced non-CO2 GHG emissions from soils
 
– renewable power from pyrolysis off gases
 
– wildfire prevention like for BECCS 
 
– can also be applied to municipal waste (waste char) 
to reduce waste volume and prevent landfill gas 
emissions that have high global warming potential
 
– growing dedicated biochar crops compromises 
food/fodder security and risks deforestation
 
– biochar amendment makes the soil darker (c.f. 
“terra preta”; “black soil”), which reduces albedo 
and leads to faster warming in spring
 
– benefits to soil are not universal; sometimes 
biochar addition has led to decreased crop 
yields96
94 The Rhodium Group (estimates that DAC at full scale in the US could generate 30 000 mostly high-wage jobs: See, Capturing new jobs and new business: 
Growth opportunities from direct air capture scale-up, Rhondium Group, 2020.
95 Applying biochar to ameliorate soils is well-established by indigenous communities in the Amazon region (terra preta) and in regenerative agriculture.  
See “The bright prospect of biochar”, Nature Climate Change vol 1, 2009.
96 Biochar: is there a dark side?, ETH Zürich, April 2014.
22 Swiss Re Institute The insurance rationale for carbon removal solutions
The role of insurance
The transition to net-zero emissions presents risks and opportunities for all sectors  
of the economy. Moving away from fossil fuels and polluting practices requires  
de-risking, financing and creation of a market for clean alternatives. The insurance 
sector is uniquely positioned to offer support on three fronts, by:
 ̤ providing risk management knowledge and transfer solutions, and insurance 
capacity for evolving risk pools;
 ̤ providing capital as an institutional, long-term investor; and 
 ̤ stimulating the market as a buyer of green products and services to run own 
operations. 
To give a practical example, an insurance company can drive energy transition by 
providing risk transfer solutions such as performance guarantees to solar PV plants, 
by investing in green bonds, the proceeds of which are used to finance wind farms, 
and by sourcing 100% of its own power consumption from renewable sources.97  
In addition, insurers can demonstrate leadership in mitigating climate change with 
transparency in reporting on all emission sources (own-operation and indirect 
emissions from insurance offerings and investments); by committing to net-zero 
emission strategies with separate targets for carbon reductions and removal; and by 
advocating for climate action and sharing of best practices. An example for such 
action is the UN-convened Net-Zero Insurance Alliance announced in April 2021, 
committing founding (including Swiss Re) and future signatories to achieve a net-
zero underwriting portfolio by 2050.98 The following explores how the re/insurance 
industry can engage in carbon removal along the three main transition levers: as risk 
taker and investor in, and as buyer of green products and services.
Understanding and insuring carbon removal risks
Re/insurers conduct assessment to select insurable risks, propose suitable pricing 
thereof, and provide risk management advice to insureds.99 They also diversify 
selected risks based on lines of business, geography and time. These same risk 
management activities apply to understanding and insuring of carbon removal risks. 
Already insurable risks: Many elements of the carbon removal value chain are 
familiar to insurers through existing activities, technologies and products in other 
sector value chains. The private insurance market has long been underwriting a suite 
of associated risks through Property & Casualty lines of business, including:
 ̤ Property traditional (includes property value and business interruption insurance). 
The main covers are for fire, explosion, malicious damage, strike, civil commotion 
and natural peril (eg, flood, windstorm, hail and earthquake) risks.
 ̤ Casualty traditional lines 
 
– General third-party and product liability
 
– Employer’s liability
 
– Motor
 
– Professional liability
 
– Environmental liability
97 All three examples are real engagements pursued by Swiss Re. See Sustainability Report 2019.
98 UN-convened Net-Zero Insurance Alliance, 21 April 2021.
99 There are four general criteria that insurance products need to conform to: 1) randomness of the peril  
(ie, no-one should be able to foresee the exact time of occurrence of an adverse event that has to be 
accidental and independent of the will of the insured); 2) quantification of the frequency and severity  
of the peril (insurers can model for the probability of occurrence and estimate the impact to the value  
at risk in case of occurrence of an adverse event); 3) affordability (the insurance premium must be 
affordable for the insured and adequately cover the financial risk carried by the insurer); and 4) 
reciprocity or mutuality (insurance portfolios must be sufficiently diverse to avoid systemic risk). See  
G. Heal, H. Kunreuther, Environmental Assets & Liabilities: Dealing with catastrophic risks, The Wharton 
School, November 2008, and P. Brahin et al., The essential guide to reinsurance. Swiss Re, 2015.
The insurance sector can support scaling 
up of the carbon removal industry.
… as a risk taker, investor and buyer, and 
with transparent reporting and planning 
of and advocating for climate action.
Carbon removal can profit from  
re/insurers risk assessment and 
management capabilities. 
Many elements of the carbon removal 
value chain are already insurable. Some 
opportunities are novel or non-existing.
Swiss Re Institute The insurance rationale for carbon removal solutions 23
 ̤ Specialty lines (traditional and non-traditional)
 
– Marine
 
– Engineering
 
– Agriculture (forestry, crop)
 
– Political risk
 
– Cyber
 
– Credit & Surety 
Take renewable energy as an example of insurable risks that can transfer to the 
carbon removal value chain. A developer of an offshore wind farm, for instance, 
would go to the traditional insurance market and seek multi-line covers across 
project phases: planning liability during the development phase; cargo all-risks and 
delay in start-up during the transport phase; erection all-risk, advance loss of profit 
and project liability products during the construction phase; and operational all-risk, 
business interruption and public- and product-liability covers, as well as 
environmental liability during the operational phase. Through Credit & Surety 
insurance, the developer and lenders may seek to protect their contracted services 
and financial interests.
Figure 4 shows the carbon removal value chain, with a simplified linkage of the four 
main stages: CO2 capture from air, processing, transport, and storage. As indicated, 
each stage presents key insurance opportunities, accompanied by a non-exhaustive 
list of related industries with risk pools that underwriters are already familiar with. 
The pre-existing understanding can spur further development of insurance offerings 
for specific stages of the carbon removal value chain.
Multi-line insurance offerings for 
renewables is an example for the 
insurability of technology.
The insurance opportunities along the 
carbon removal value chain are manifold. 
Key: 
Marine and cargo
Currently non-existing, 
uninsurable, or new risks
Political risk insurance 
Property business interruption
Credit & surety
Property damage
Casualty (incl. short-term environmental liability)
Agriculture (incl. forestry)
Engineering
Long-term storage liability  
• storage reversal risk
• loss of carbon certiﬁcates/price risk
Adapted or novel covers
Mature insurance covers
Flux
Main insurance 
opportunities
• Examples of industries
 related to that activity,
 and industries within
 the activitie’s value chain 
    
Activity
Nature-based
Technological
Long-lived products
Biomass
Timber, biochar, etc.
• Agriculture
• Forestry
• Marine
• Road & rail
• Construction
• Agriculture
• Agriculture, forestry
• Natural assets
CO₂
CO₂
CO₂
• Mining & quarrying
• CCS for point sources
• Oil & gas (off- & onshore, EOR)
• Construction 
• Chemicals
• Concrete aggregates/curing
• Plastics, synfuels and other
     short-lived products (CCU) 
• Chemicals
• Point source capture (CCS)
• Oil & gas (refining)
• Blue hydrogen
• Cement, steel, aluminum
• Renewables
• Marine
• Road & rail
• Pipeline
• Marine
Planting, 
land management
Harvesting,
burning, conversion
In buildings, soils,
materials
In forests, soils, 
wetlands
Direct air capture
Conversion
In buildings,
materials  
Utilization & storage
Utilization & storage
Conservation
In saline aquifers,
mineralisation
Geological storage
Capture
Processing
Transport
Storage
• Pulp & Paper
• Power & heat
• Point source capture (CCS)
Figure 5 
Insurance opportunities and related industries along the carbon removal value chain
Source: Swiss Re
24 Swiss Re Institute The insurance rationale for carbon removal solutions
The role of insurance
A multi-line offering for a direct air capture project would look largely similar to the 
exposures covered in the offshore windfarm example. The risks during planning, 
transport, construction and operation are known and also insurable. Zurich 
Insurance, for instance, is currently “spear-heading a task force to conceptualise an 
insurance product to cover the physical and legal risks associated with CCS.”100  
The first step is to package existing P&C products for CCS pilot and demonstration 
projects in the UK.101 This will yield learnings for the carbon removal insurance more 
broadly, given significant overlap between the CCS and carbon removal value chains 
(eg, BECCS, and DACS). 
Still present challenges to insurability: All told, with carbon removal processes 
still in early stages of development, the structuring and pricing of insurance offerings 
for the industry will remain challenging for some time. More projects, performance 
data and loss history are needed for insurers to build credible loss expectations.  
The Sleipner Vest field in Norway is an example of how to generate and understand 
performance data for a key element of carbon removal, namely geological CO2 
storage. Since 1996, some 19 million tonnes of CO2 have been injected into the 
Sleipner reservoir, at a rate of 0.85 million tonnes per year. In a meta-analysis of 
more than 150 scientific papers, Furre et al. examined the extensive monitoring 
programme carried out at the Sleipner storage site, concluding that the CO2 injected 
at the Sleipner site has remained contained since the start of operations.102 The 
study also stressed the importance of case-specific, risk-based monitoring design 
(no one-size-fits-all)103 and how, over time, the data feedback enabled improvement 
of reservoir models to render better, long-term predictions and thus risk knowledge.
Other than lack of loss history, another challenge to the insurability of carbon 
removal is the complexity and interdependency of the value chains involved, 
especially for hybrid and technological solutions. Underperformance or failure of  
one of the chain links (eg, a faulty compressor unit, a shortage in transport capacity, 
a safety shut down of an injection pump, etc) will cause interruptions up- and 
downstream. These may lead to general underperformance and, in the worst case, 
to stranded assets.104 Such chain integration risks hint at liability issues during the 
operational phase, which will require special attention. Furthermore, the liability 
question does not stop with the end of “operations”, for example once a forest is fully 
grown, or CO2 injection into a geological reservoir is complete. Unlike a wind farm 
that can be decommissioned and dismantled at its end of life, a properly regulated 
carbon removal project has long tail obligations: once the CO2 is captured from the 
atmosphere and the store is created, it must be kept safely and permanently stored. 
Regulators usually put in place financial security obligations to ensure that operators 
set aside the means to observe storage integrity for as long as required as deemed 
necessary in a given jurisdiction.
Still uninsurable risks: Carbon removal solutions come with varying degrees of risk 
of storage reversal. A wildfire destroying an afforestation project, the new owner of a 
farm abandoning carbon sequestering land-use practices, and a geological storage 
reservoir leaking through an old, insufficiently plugged well, are just some examples. 
For the climate system to stabilise, temporary storage is not an option. Nor is it for 
efficient functioning of a market in carbon removal certificates, the current means of 
monetising carbon removal. At some point, lawmakers may also mandate carbon 
removal for providers or consumers of carbon-intensive goods and services. Thus, in 
the event of storage reversal, contingency plans and financial securities that allow for 
the timely deployment of remedial measures to stop and undo any emission from the 
store must be in place. Insurance could be one instrument of such financial security.
100 F. Streidl, K. Sheppard, Sustainability in Energy Insurance, Zurich, December 2020.
101 Personal communication with K. Sheppard of Zurich UK Energy team, March 2021.
102 A. Furre et al., “20 years of monitoring CO2-injection at Sleipner”, Energy Procedia, vol 114, 2017.
103 Monitoring encompasses a combination of various geophysical methods and downhole sensors to 
follow and predict the movement of the CO2 plume (conformance monitoring), to confirm that the CO2 
stays within the storage reservoir (containment monitoring), and – should leakage occur – to assess the 
effect of remedial measures (contingency monitoring).
104 W. Goldthorpe, L. Avignon, M. Repmann, J. Schwieger, Enabling a Low-Carbon Economy via Hydrogen 
and CCS, Elegancy, 2018.
Insurers are designing multi-line offerings 
for CCS. These will yield learnings for 
carbon removal.
More carbon removal projects are 
needed to solidify the risk knowledge 
and provide feasible insurance offerings.
Also challenging the insurability of 
carbon removal are the many process 
interdependencies and long time frames.
Storage reversal is the main new risk 
inherent to carbon removal. 
Swiss Re Institute The insurance rationale for carbon removal solutions 25
The insurance industry is struggling with long-term liabilities related to carbon 
storage. Private insurers are not willing to take very long duration tail risks due to 
uncertainties in loss prediction. This has been clear from the early days of carbon 
storage in the context of CCS, originally conceived in the 2000s as a means to 
decarbonise fossil fuel-fired power plants. The “un-insurability of some liabilities” 
related to geological CO2 storage has always been considered a “material barrier” to 
the deployment of CCS technologies.105 In 2008/2009, Zurich Insurance was the 
first and to date only insurer to offer a liability cover for CCS, tailored to the US 
market. There is very little public information about that product.106 Five years later in 
2014, long-term liabilities related to CO2 storage were again identified as “not 
insurable”, according to the insurance plan for the Peterhead CCS project proposal 
under the UK CCS Commercialisation Programme, summarized in Table 3.107
105 Managing Liabilities of European Carbon Capture and Storage, ClimateWise, 2012.
106 Personal communication with K. Sheppard of Zurich UK Energy team, March 2021.
107 Peterhead CCS Project: Insurance plan, Shell, 2014; based on Stage 1 Design Phase Risk and 
Insurance Report, March 2014. See also I. Havercroft et al., Lessons and perceptions. Adopting a 
commercial approach to CCS liability, Global CCS Institute, 2019.
To date, the insurance industry has 
shown little appetite to cover storage 
reversal risk.
Table 3 
Insurance plan for the Peterhead CCS project proposal
Source: Peterhead CCS Project: Insurance plan, Shell, 2014; based on Stage 1 Design Phase Risk and Insurance Report, Marsh, 2014.
Risk
Design and  
construction
Operations
Closure and  
de-commissioning
Post-closure
Liability
3rd party liability
Y
Y
Y
Y
Seepage & pollution from reservoir
N
N
N
N
Automobile liability
Y
Y
Y
Y
Employer’s liability
Y
Y
Y
Y
Professional liability
(N)
(N)
(N)
(N)
Sub-surface liabilities
N
N
N
N
Physical damage
Damage to the works (construction all risk)
Y
n/a
Y
n/a
Damage to existing assets
Y
Y
Y
Y
Loss of well control
Y
Y
Y
Y
Automobile physical damage
(N)
(N)
(N)
(N)
Transit/cargo
Y
Y
Y
n/a
Other
Loss of carbon credits
N
N
N
N
Business interruption due to physical damage
n/a
Y
n/a
n/a
26 Swiss Re Institute The insurance rationale for carbon removal solutions
The role of insurance
The role of carbon certificates
Also listed as uninsurable in Table 3 are carbon certificates (“loss of carbon credits”). 
As aforementioned, in the context of carbon removal, a carbon certificate is the 
attestation that 1 tonne of CO2 has been removed from the atmosphere and stored 
permanently. Voluntary buyers of carbon removal certificates use them to balance 
their residual emissions in line with a net-zero claim (net-zero flight, personal 
footprint, own operations, city, etc). In the case of storage reversal, the carbon 
removal certificates – and with them the climate claims they had supported – are 
annulled. The value at risk is given by the cost of replacing the lost certificates at 
current market prices. Due to market volatility, the replacement certificates could sell 
at a much higher price than what was originally paid.108 As a remedy, the buyer 
could ask the seller to protect the validity of the certificates through some sort of 
product liability insurance, where the product to be covered is the negative emission 
service (in the form of the certificates) offered by the seller. Buyers may also decide 
to tender and purchase such a certificate insurance on their own to better control 
and optimally protect the integrity of their net-zero claim.
Interest for insurance offerings related to removal certificates may soon be amplified 
by the emergence of new compliance markets for carbon removal. There, regulators 
will require emitters to balance their emissions by purchasing removal certificates.  
To ensure compliance and avoid fines, regulated emitters may then also start to look 
for insured certificates or certificate insurance. Also, public sector buyers will likely 
add to this new demand for insurance. The Paris Agreement Article 6 for cooperative 
mechanisms will allow one country to sell emission reduction or negative emission 
services to another. The corresponding certificates are called Internationally 
Transferred Mitigation Outcomes (ITMOs).109 As international climate negotiations 
about the rule book for such transfers are ongoing, first transactions are being 
piloted.110 Pilot transactions usually take place via bilateral agreements between a 
developed country as buyer and a developing country as seller of ITMOs. In these 
cases, the insurance taker would typically be the buying country. 
Tackling the long-term liability challenges of carbon storage: To enable liability 
insurance solutions for storage reversal events, long-term environmental, property 
and health impacts must be clarified. Insurers need to be able to build reliable 
expectations about worst-case loss scenarios. Operational, managerial and 
regulatory responsibilities for damage must be clear, in line with the establishment  
of clear cause-effect analytics. The differentiation of storage reversal into gradual 
and abrupt, the type of value at risk through reversal, and the underlying type of 
carbon removal solution will determine the type of insurance cover needed. This 
could be environmental or product liability. Insurance solutions offered by the private 
sector would likely be limited to shorter-terms and with diverse exclusion clauses. 
Covering long-term liabilities would likely be left to public sector solutions, possibly 
in partnership with the private sector. 
108 Both voluntary and compliance carbon markets have seen significant price fluctuations in the past. For 
instance, an emission allowance unit under the world’s largest compliance carbon market, the EU 
emission trading scheme, went from ~EUR 4 to ~EUR 40 in only 3 years from 2018 to 2021. See eex, 
accessed 23 April 2021
109 Paris Agreement, United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), 2015.
110 S. Greiner, et al., Article 6 Piloting: State of Play and Stakeholder Experiences, Climate Finance 
Innovators, December 2020.
Insurance could play a role when carbon 
certificates need to be replaced upon 
storage reversal.
The emergence of a compliance carbon 
market for removal certificates may drive 
demand for such insurance offerings. 
There is still some way to go to improve 
risk knowledge of storage reversal.
Swiss Re Institute The insurance rationale for carbon removal solutions 27
The insurance of ITMO transactions or other future compliance carbon removal 
markets would open the door to public-private insurance partnership. This would 
require a dialogue with the regulator on the question of suitable risk sharing models 
for carbon removal, in particular the insurability of long-term storage liabilities. Some 
considerations and models described in open literature are: 
 ̤ Enhanced Oil Recovery (EOR) as comparative: CO2-EOR means injecting 
liquified CO2 into mature oil fields to mobilise and extract more oil. At the end of 
the EOR operation, the injected CO2 remains stored in the depleted oil reservoir. 
EOR has been practiced in North America since the 1970s.111 A recent study 
featuring expert interviews on questions about CCS liabilities found respondents 
from the insurance industry assuming that analogues can be drawn between EOR 
and CCS.112 The study, however, remains unclear whether this assumption also 
applies to the long-term liability of CO2 storage (ie, the part of the CCS value chain 
most relevant in the context of carbon removal), or just the better-understood CO2 
capture, transport and injection phases. 
 
EOR presents the longest-standing record of practical experience with 
underground CO2 injection for commercial reasons, yielding corresponding loss 
history. Furthermore, dedicated CO2 storage benefits from technical as well as 
policy experience under the US oil and gas regulatory framework.113
 ̤ Carbon allowance reimbursement insurance (CARI): In 2012, the 
ClimateWise insurance industry group conceptualised the CARI policy to insure 
operators against the loss of carbon certificates under the EU Emission Trading 
Scheme.114 The CARI policy is limited to the injection phase only, as post-closure, 
long-term storage liabilities are considered uninsurable. Policy terms foresee 
yearly renewal, a number of exclusions115 and a deductible. Insurer and insured 
agree up-front on the expected maximum amount of CO2 stored as well as on the 
price per certificate at which the policy would indemnify the insured upon storage 
reversal. Acknowledging price volatility in the certificates market, the suggestion 
is to limit the liability to a price cap, either fixed or based on the moving average 
certificate price from the previous few years.  
 
ClimateWise also addressed some challenges that would come with a CARI-type 
insurance cover: the annual renewability that creates cost and therefore 
investment uncertainty, aggregation risk with liabilities already covered or events 
affecting several operations simultaneously, as well as hindrance due to lack of 
insurance capacity, trigger definition (proximate cause versus a regulatory 
decision on the quantum of loss), and loss quantification. To date, the CARI policy 
model has not been operationalised nor put into practice.
111 See Enhanced Oil Recovery, Office of Fossil Energy, accessed 23 April 2021.
112 Havercroft, Ian et al., 2019, op. cit.
113 V. Nunez-Lopez, E. Moskal, Potential of CO2-EOR for Near-Term Decarbonization, Frontiers in Climate, 
27 September 2019.
114 The certificates under the EU Emission Trading Scheme (EU ETS) are called Emission Allowance Units 
(EUA). They allow an emitter under the ETS to release 1 tonne of CO2 to the atmosphere. All emissions 
covered under the ETS are capped and all emitters receive a certain amount of EUAs according to 
industry benchmarks. EUAs can then be traded among emitters. If one emitter reduces emissions (eg, a 
cement plant through the installation of a CCS facility) it can sell the surplus EUAs to another cement 
plant that did not implement emission reduction measures itself.
115 Exclusions to CARI pay-outs: defects in design, plan, specification, materials or workmanship; normal 
wear and tear, gradual deterioration or normal corrosion; earthquake (can be included, but could give 
rise to aggregation risk depending on location); normal setting, normal shrinkage or normal expansion in 
land and/or caprock. Source: ClimateWise, 2012.
Open literature provides just a few hints 
on how to tackle the long-erm storage 
liability issue, among these using EOR as 
example, and public-sector underwriting.
28 Swiss Re Institute The insurance rationale for carbon removal solutions
The role of insurance
 ̤ Public-sector underwriting for risk sharing: As long as there is limited to  
no experience with long-term CO2 storage, the private sector will consider the 
related risks as “unquantifiable” and shy away from full exposure. Risk sharing  
with governments will play an important role over the short to mid-term.116 
Governments or responsible public authorities may:
 
– accept liability caps, including on the maximum cost for the replacement of lost 
carbon certificates;117
 
– foster and/or administer a risk pooling approach like the Nuclear Risk Insurers 
Limited (NRI);118
 
– establish a stand-alone agency (a “delivery company”) to manage the full-chain 
risks of technology deployment;119 and ultimately
 
– accept the transfer of liability from the operator to the public sector after a 
clearly defined period post injection completion.120 
 
By putting in place robust regulations with a diligent approach to permitting and 
reporting, governments will be able to manage their own exposure to risks acquired 
through sharing and transfer models.121
 ̤ Buffer pools: Most standards for nature-based solutions have applied buffer 
pools to address the risk that an emission reduction or carbon removal outcome is 
reversed as a result of a damaging event to the underlying natural asset (eg, from 
a wildfire, mismanagement, illegal deforestation, policy changes, etc). The idea is 
that projects subject to known non-permanence risks are assessed according to 
certain criteria to determine how many of the certificates issued by these projects 
cannot be sold, but instead need to be directed into a buffer pool.122 From there, 
should a storage reversal event take place, replacement certificates can be 
released. The State of California’s Low Carbon Fuel Standard (LCFS) applies the 
buffer-pool principal also to technological removals like DACS.123 Project 
operators need to contribute up to 17% of the carbon certificates generated to a 
so-called “Buffer Account”. The assessment of the buffer contribution is 
determined by onsite risk assessment, including of well integrity and site risks.124 
Table 4 shows the guide to a CCS project’s risk rating that determines how much 
in certificate value the project needs to contribute to the LCFS buffer pool. If 
leakage from storage reservoir occurs during the first 50 years post injection, 
replacement certificates need to be drawn from the contributions to the Buffer 
Account from that very project. During the next 50 years, contributions made by 
all parties to the Buffer Account could be used to replace lost certificates. After 
100 years, the post-injection monitoring obligation ends. 
116 W. Goldthorpe, L. Avignon, M. Repmann, J. Schwieger, 2018, op. cit.
117 Carbon capture and storage: the second competition for government support, National Audit Office, 
January 2017.
118 Other examples include the Oil Insurance Limited (OIL), Offshore Pollution Liability Agreement (OPOL), 
See W. Goldthorpe, L. Avignon, M. Repmann, J. Schwieger, 2018, op. cit
119 R. Oxburgh, Lowest Cost Decarbonisation for the UK. The critical role of CCS, Report to the Secretary 
of State of Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy form the Parliamentary Advisory Group on CCS, 
2016.
120 In the EU and Australia, the post-closure time limit for transfer of (partial) liabilities is 20 years.
121 W. Goldthorpe, L. Avignon, M. Repmann, J. Schwieger, 2018, op. cit.
122 See Verified Carbon Standard, 2019. AFOLU Non-Permanence Risk Tool. Verified Carbon Standard, 
2019, accessed 23 April 2021.
123 See California Air Resources Board, accessed 21 April 2021.
124 “Appendix G. Determination of a CCS Project’s Risk Rating for Determining its Contribution to the LCFS 
Buffer Account”, in Carbon Capture and Sequestration Protocol under the Low Carbon Fuel Standard, 
California Air Resources Board, 6 March 2018.
Regulation can help governments 
manage their exposures. 
Swiss Re Institute The insurance rationale for carbon removal solutions 29
Table 4 
Guide to a CCS project’s risk rating for determining its contribution to the LCFS Buffer Account
Source: Carbon Capture and Sequestration Protocol under the Low Carbon Fuel Standard, California Air Resources Board, 6 March 2018. See Appendix G. 
Determination of a CCS Project’s Risk Rating for Determining its Contribution to the LCFS Buffer Account
Risk type
Risk category
Risk rating  
contribution
Financial
Low financial risk:  CCS project operators demonstrate their company has a Moody’s rating of A or 
better; or an equivalent rating from Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
0%
Medium financial risk: CCS project operators that demonstrate their company hasa a Moody’s rating of 
B or better; or an equivalent rating from Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
1%
High financial risk: CCS project operators cannot make one of the two demonstrations above
2%
Social
Low social risk: CCS projects located in countries or regions ranked among the top 20th percentile 
based on the World Justice Project Rule of Law Index
0%
Medium social risk: CCS projects located in countries or regions ranked among the top 20th and 50th 
percentile based on the World Justice Project Rule of Law Index
1%
High social risk: CCS projects located in countries or regions that are not ranked, or ranked below the 
50th percentile based on the World Justice Project Rule of Law Index
3%
Management
Low management risk: demonstrated surface facility access control, (eg, injection site is fenced and 
well protected)
1%
Higher management risk: poor or no surface facility access control (eg, injection site is open, or not 
fenced or protected)
2%
Site
Low site risk: selected site has more than two good quality confining layers above the sequestration 
zone, and a dissipation interval below the sequestration zone
1%
Higher site risk: site meets the minimum selection criteria, but does not meet the above site criteria
2%
Well integrity
Low well integrity risk: all wells for the CCS project meet US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) 
class VI well or equivalent requirements
1%
Higher well integrity risk: the CCS project has wells that do not meet US EPA class VI well or equivalent 
requirements
3%
30 Swiss Re Institute The insurance rationale for carbon removal solutions
The role of insurance
Investing in carbon removal solutions
Carbon removal solutions, in particular infrastructure-heavy technological and hybrid 
solutions, typically require substantial capital upfront, a long-term investment 
horizon, or both. The availability of specialised risk knowledge and inherent need  
to invest earned premiums over long periods of time to match assets and liabilities 
makes re/insurers well-positioned as partners for the carbon removal industry. 
However, most industry solutions are still immature, under-deployed and some 
under-developed, making existing carbon removal opportunities high-risk 
investments. As such, insurers need to hold significant levels of capital against such 
investments, not least to align with prudential and solvency rules. 
Currently, flagship carbon removal projects are mostly government-funded,125, 126 
and/or are supported by major industrial players, in particular from the oil and gas 
sector.127, 128 Government and large industry are more able to take on the investment 
risk inherent in new technologies, which include:129
 ̤ Technical and physical risks, accentuated by immaturity of technologies/lack of 
performance data and uncertainties about the quality and availability of natural 
resources (eg, the performance of a natural carbon sink or geological storage 
reservoir, especially under climate change considerations which alter the bio-
physical context).
 ̤ Market and commercial risks: high upfront costs, long investment horizons/
payback periods, investor unfamiliarity with the new technology, and complexity 
of infrastructure investments.
 ̤ Political and social risks, such as the need to rely on public financial/institutional 
support, the long-term investment horizon (much longer than electoral policy 
cycles), and (potential) social resistance to the new technologies.
Project developers need to assess these risks and how to manage them. If they are  
to attract investors, they also need a business case that convincingly forecasts 
acceptable cash flows. Finally, a robust investment environment is required. To this 
end, the three most common policy asks are:130
 ̤ for policymakers to put a price on carbon that pays for reducing and removing 
emissions (including in the form of tax benefits);
 ̤ provision of seed money, for instance in the form of grants or guarantees to  
first-in-kind and early adopter projects; and
 ̤ fair allocation of risks across the public and private sectors, according to where 
comparative risk management advantages lie.
In summary, to accelerate the deployment of carbon removal and its popularity 
among investors, governments and policymakers need set in place more support 
and regulatory backing. 
125 £5m boost to scale up ground-breaking carbon capture pilot at Drax, drax, 27 June 2019.
126 Funding for Longship and Northern Lights approved, Norwegian Government, 15 December 2020.
127 The New York Times, 7 April 2019, op. cit.
128 “Shell launches USD 300m forest plan to offset carbon emissions”, Financial Times, 8 April 2019.
129 Risk Gaps: A Map of Risk Mitigation Instruments for Clean Investments. Climate Policy Initiative, 
January 2013.
130 Special Report on Carbon Capture Utilisation and Storage – Energy Technology Perspectives, IEA, 
2020.
Carbon removal solutions are high-risk 
investments.
The public sector and large industrial 
players are currently the main investors.
Policy asks for a robust investment 
environment are carbon pricing, 
subsidies, public/private risk sharing.
More public sector support is needed to 
attract private sector investors. 
Swiss Re Institute The insurance rationale for carbon removal solutions 31
The public sector and also private institutions/groups have launched several initiatives 
and guidelines on net-zero ambitions. Some remain silent on carbon removal. In 
ignoring the potential upside,131, 132 they can also miss highlighting that to be able to 
claim a fully net-zero (as opposed to a low-carbon) portfolio, investors will inevitably 
have to fund negative emissions to balance any residual emissions from other assets in 
the portfolio.133 Other initiatives and guidelines are essentially bearish in their 
outlook,134 seeing “forest restoration as the earliest feasible investment opportunity,” 
and BECCS and DACS not investible before 2030 and 2040, respectively (though the 
private sector has started investing in DACS135). Others see more promise. For 
example, in its recently published Inaugural 2025 Target Setting Protocol, the UN-
convened Net-Zero Asset Owner Alliance, clearly defines “investments in economic 
activities […] sequestering carbon dioxide already in the atmosphere” as “Climate 
Solution Investments”.136 The standard asks Alliance members to report  
on their invested/committed value in carbon dioxide removal investments. 
Given its still immaturity, investors – re/insurers included – have not yet had much 
opportunity to explore the carbon removal sector as a new asset class. This is with 
the exception of nature-based solutions, in particular forestry.137
Outlook on nature-based solutions as investment opportunities
According to Tobin-de la Puente and Mitchell, two thirds of countries are considering 
natural climate solutions as part of nationally-determined contributions to mitigate 
climate change under the Paris Agreement.138 Yet, natural climate solutions currently 
receive only about 6% of total public funding on climate,139 suggesting a large 
protection gap. Open literature does not yet provide long-term investment estimates. 
Using revenue figures as a proxy for investment size, Vivid Economics estimates that 
reforestation projects could generate up to USD 190 billion in revenue by 2050.140 
Short-term estimates exist: Deutz et al. assess current global private and public-
private annual investment volume in natural climate solutions to be between USD 
0.8–1.4 billion, and that this could increase to an estimated USD 25–40 billion per 
year by 2030.141 These estimates include the transaction volume of carbon 
avoidance certificates from natural climate solutions traded on the voluntary market. 
This market reached an all-time high in 2019 and has continued to grow, despite the 
economic downturn under the COVID-19 pandemic.142 Lately, buyers are explicitly 
soliciting carbon removal as opposed to the conventionally-bought carbon 
avoidance certificates.143, 144 This is yet another indicator of a growing number of 
nature-based solution projects that will soon be on the lookout for finance.
131 Net Zero Investment framework for Consultation, Institutional Investors Group on Climate Change, 2020.
132 “The Oxford Martin Principles for Climate-Conscious Investments” in Net Zero Carbon Investment 
Initiative, Oxford Martin School, 2018.
133 There exists no truly zero-carbon asset today. For example, even renewables come with residual 
emissions (the aluminium and steel in the rotors of a wind farm, the bunker fuel from the cargo ship that 
brought the solar PV panels from China to Europe, etc).
134 An investor guide to negative emission technologies and the importance of land use. Vivid Economics, 
Inevitable Policy Response, 2020.
135 bloomberg.com, 2 June 2020; The New York Times, 7 April 2019, op. cit.
136 Inaugural 2025 Target Setting Protocol, UN-Convened Net-Zero Asset Owner Alliance. Monitoring 
Reporting and Verification Track. PRI, UNEPFI, 2021.
137 Vivid Economics, Inevitable Policy Response, 2020, op. cit.
138 The term “natural climate solutions” lumps together activities that either avoid emissions from landscapes 
and wetlands through conservation, or remove emissions through the nature-based solutions.
139 J. Tobin-de la Puente, A.W. Mitchell, The Little Book of Investing in Nature, Global Canopy, 2021.
140 Vivid Economics, Inevitable Policy Response, 2020, op. cit.
141 A. Deutz, G.M. Heal, R. Niu, E Swanson E. Townshend et al., Financing Nature: Closing the biodiversity 
financing gap, The Paulson Institute, The Nature Conservancy, the Cornell Atkinson Center for 
Sustainability, 2020.
142 “Carbon offset market progresses during coronavirus”, Financial Times, 29 September 2020.
143 For an explanation of the difference between these two types of carbon certificates, see “Focus: Moving 
from carbon offsets to carbon removal”, in Sustainability Report 2019, Swiss Re.
144 For example, stripe.com 18 May 2020; shopify.com 15 September 2020; Microsoft 2021, op. cit.  
and “Shopify Purchases More Direct Air Capture (DAC) Carbon Removal Than Any Other Company”, 
shopify.com, 9 March 2021.
Investor initiatives and guidelines are still 
mostly bearish on the need for and 
potential of carbon removal. 
Other than in forestry projects, 
investments in carbon removal projects 
remain scarce.
Nature-based solutions are projected to 
generate substantial revenues in the next 
decades, also in view of an expected 
surge in carbon market volume.
32 Swiss Re Institute The insurance rationale for carbon removal solutions
The role of insurance
Carbon removal certificates can also be used to structure new project finance 
mechanisms. A long-term contract called a Carbon Removal Purchase Agreement 
(CRPA) between a carbon removal project developer and certificate buyer can be 
used as security. The longer the contract term and higher the credit rating of the 
buyer, the more valuable the security (ie, the cheaper the capital cost for the 
developer). Revenues from certificate sales under the CRPA can be arranged to  
flow directly to the financing party. This mimics the Emission Reduction Purchase 
Agreement (ERPA) backed finance model.145 Financiers with a need for certificates 
(eg, to compensate their unavoided operational emissions subject to a net-zero 
commitment) may also take (parts of) the project’s certificates directly onto their 
book, in exchange for a corresponding reduction in the interest rate. Some of these 
types of financing mechanisms are explained in more detail in existing literature.146 
Another financing means could be carbon removal-type bonds, as a new sub-class of 
green bonds. These could be debt instruments to aggregate a pipeline of projects of 
various type and size. They would offer a new opportunity to diversify project risk and 
render smaller projects investible for a broader array of institutions, including insurers.
In developed markets, traditional financing mechanisms (project finance, public 
funding) will remain strong drivers for carbon removal projects. In developing 
markets, it is usually more difficult to attract capital. Currently blended finance – the 
mixing of public (eg, guarantees) and private (eg, equity) finance – is a clear signal to 
infrastructure investors to act under solid umbrellas and ratings from multilateral 
institutions, because it supports the de-risking of projects that are otherwise not 
interesting for investors. The Net-Zero Asset Owner Alliance calls on asset managers 
to support blended finance, because it allows “public financiers and other donors  
to use a small amount of their own resources as a first-loss to mobilize large amount 
of private capital”.147 The UN Environment Programme’s Finance Initiative proposes 
blended finance as a tool to spur sustainable development projects in the field of 
blue carbon.148 This may set a precedent that could be used to further expand the 
carbon removal investment space, especially as many nature-based solution 
opportunities are located in emerging markets.
Altogether, the above-listed trends and models indicate ample investment 
opportunities in natural assets that use vegetation or soils as carbon sinks. Vivid 
Economics concludes that “Negative Emission Technologies are the next investment 
frontier and offer trillion dollar upside opportunities”.149 Capital markets are familiar 
with investing in forests as natural assets and/or for timber. Forestry insurance, for 
example, against storms is a known field in underwriting as well.150 Other parts of 
the nature-based solution space (eg, oceans) are less explored. Nevertheless, 
progress is being made to better understand, classify and standardise the climate 
services provided by all nature-based solutions.151 For example, remote sensing in 
combination with machine learning capabilities can reduce the need for frequent 
field sampling of soils and vegetation to assess and monitor the carbon stock of 
natural assets.152 This reduces management fees and improves risk management 
capabilities through more accurate data and more frequent reporting – also adding 
to the risk knowledge required for effective underwriting.
145 An ERPA is a long-term (usually 3–15 years) offtake agreement for conventional carbon avoidance 
certificates, usually at predefined volume and price. For ERPA-backed finance, see W. Goldthorpe et al. 
2018, op. cit)
146 Vivid Economics, Inevitable Policy Response, 2020, op. cit.
147 Net-zero asset owner alliance calls on asset managers to support blended finance, UN Environment 
Programme (UNEP), 16 February 2021.
148 UN Environment Programme Finance Initiative, 2020. A Blue Path to Recovery: The Power of Finance to 
Rebuild Ocean Health, UNEP, 2020.
149 Vivid Economics, Inevitable Policy Response, 2020, op. cit.
150 Forest Insurance: A largely untapped potential. Swiss Re, 2015.
151 G. Somarakis, S. Stagakis, N. Chrysoulakis, ThinkNature Nature-Based Solutions Handbook, 2019.
152 See, for example, Aspiring Universe, Pachama, and Siliviaterrra. Currently ongoing is the Sustaintech 
Xcelerator supported by – among others – The World Bank, seeking to foster solutions to increase trust 
in nature-based solutions (eg, monitoring and verification technologies including remote sensing with AI 
and latest modelling advances, technologies to support ground sampling etc).
Long-term purchasing agreements of 
carbon certificates can support project 
finance. 
Carbon-removal bonds could help make 
smaller projects also investible. 
Blended finance is another key tool, 
particularly in emerging markets.
Advancements in the understanding and 
monitoring of the solutions will continue 
to improve the attractiveness of 
nature-based solutions as an asset class.
Swiss Re Institute The insurance rationale for carbon removal solutions 33
Outlook on technological and hybrid solutions as investment opportunities
Robust, bottom-up estimates of the investment needs for the full BECCS and DACCS 
value chains are not yet available. Reasons include uncertainties about future cost, 
timing and extent of deployment, or difficulties in appropriating shared infrastructure 
like pipelines, storage infrastructure etc. Using again revenue estimates as a proxy 
for investment size, these figures are in the triple-digit billions. The US National 
Academy of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine stipulates that 5 billion tonnes of 
negative emission per year from technological removal solutions could generate  
an annual revenue of USD 500 billion.153 Vivid Economics arrives at a figure of 
USD 625 billion per year by 2050.154
Taking CCS as a proxy for BECCS or DACCS (ie, reference of scale for investments  
in that type of infrastructure), one can appreciate how large investments in 
technological carbon removal infrastructure ultimately could be. The Energy 
Transition Commission estimates an investment need of USD 160–190 billion per 
year for CCS over the next 30 years (cumulatively USD 4.8–5.6 trillion) to mitigate 
6–10 billion tonnes of CO2 emissions over that period from power, hydrogen 
production and heavy industry.155 Since 2010, globally USD 15 billion has been 
invested into 16 large-scale CCS projects.156 Another 16 big projects in advanced 
planning stage today amount to another USD 27 billion of investments.157 Private 
sector contributions have come mostly from oil & gas majors. During the same 
period, startups seeking to commercialise CO2 utilisation routes have raised nearly 
USD 1 billion in private sector investment.158 The handful of direct air capture (DAC) 
firms around today have raised some USD 200 million in private capital, and another 
USD 200 million in public research and development grants.159 These are much 
smaller numbers than the level of capital that has already gone into large CCS, but 
are nonetheless notable for a technology long-considered economically unviable. 
Government spending on technological carbon removal solutions is on the rise, too. 
In 2019, the US Congress allocated USD 60 million towards carbon removal.160  
A year later, USD 447 million of the second stimulus bill was earmarked for carbon 
removal R&D by 2025, starting with USD 175 million in 2021.161 The EU Innovation 
Fund to support low-carbon technology is valued at EUR 10 billion.162 Below are two 
examples of government-backed flagship projects, the British Acorn project and the 
Norwegian Longship project (see Acorn and Northern Lights: two flagship CCUS 
projects). Originally conceived as pure CCUS projects to decarbonise industry, both 
are now partnering with air capture and bioenergy companies, demonstrating the 
broader investment potential offered by the carbon removal value chain.
153 Negative Emissions Technologies and Reliable Sequestration – A Research Agenda, The National 
Academies of Science Engineering Medicine, 2019.
154 Vivid Economics, Inevitable Policy Response, 2020, op. cit.
155 Making Mission Possible – Delivering a net-zero economy, The Energy Transition, 2020.
156 IEA, 2020, op. cit.
157 “Stored Carbon could morph into investment gold”, Reuters, 20 October 2020.
158 Putting CO2 to use, IEA, 2019.
159 Authors’ estimate, informed by IEA’s figures of USD 180 million in private capital and USD 170 million in 
public funds raised since 2019 (IEA, 2020, op. cit.)
160 US Government Allocates $60 Million to develop Carbon Removal Technology, World Resources 
Institute, 2019.
161 “Businesses Aim to Pull Greenhouse Gases from the Air: It’s a Gamble”, The New York Times, 
18 January 2021.
162 See “Innovation Fund” in Climate Action, European Commission.
Estimates suggest annual revenues of 
technological removals will be between 
USD 500-625 billion by 2050.
Current investments in CCS (for emission 
mitigation) are at USD 42 billion. 
Government backing for technological 
carbon removal is increasing…
34 Swiss Re Institute The insurance rationale for carbon removal solutions
The role of insurance
The financing required for technological solutions is much greater than for nature-
based solutions. To date, the main financing concern for full chain BECCS, DACS and 
CCUS is to secure the next R&D grant from government. Projects currently underway 
are heavily subsidised first-of-kind facilities. There is a long way to go before they 
become a readily investible asset class for the private sector. That said, “if governments 
make the first move, a wall of green finance could follow.”163 For its part, the oil and 
gas sector has been investing in these projects from the time that CCS became a 
topic, but much more is needed to embrace the inevitable transition from fossil-fuel 
providers to storage service providers. Further uptake of carbon-removal 
infrastructure investment could spur banks, insurers and others to follow suit. 
Acorn and Northern Lights: two flagship CCUS projects
In spring 2020, the UK government announced a GBP-800-million infrastructure 
fund, subsequently topped up to GBP 1 billion, to support development of up to  
four industrial CCUS clusters.164 This aligns with the UK’s goal to become a world 
leader in carbon storage technologies, with a target to store 10 million tonnes of  
CO2 by 2030.165
In September last year, Pale Blue Dot Energy and Carbon Engineering Canada 
announced a joint project.166 Pale Blue Dot is an energy consultancy that leads the 
UK Acorn project in Eastern Scotland. Acorn is a flagship of the UK’s CCUS 
programme, with a plan to capture in first phase 340 000 tonnes of CO2 from the  
St. Fergus gas-fired power plant and later to also connect to a hydrogen production 
facility. The CO2 will be compressed and sent through an existing natural gas 
pipeline to a geological storage site 100 km offshore.167 With continued government 
and private sector support (Chrysaor, Shell and Total are project partners), the 
project could be commissioned in 2024. Investment needs  are estimated at  
USD 270–550 million.168 Carbon Engineering is one of the leading DAC companies 
from British Columbia in Canada. Carbon Engineering will install a DAC facility that  
connects to the Acorn transport and storage infrastructure. The DAC facility is 
expected to go live around two years after the Acorn project goes online.
A further example where CCUS meets DACS is Norway’s full-scale CCS project 
Longship. In phase 1, the project targets the capture of 0.7 and 1.1 million tonnes of 
CO2 per year from a cement and a waste-to-energy plant near Oslo. Northern Lights, 
a joint venture between European oil majors Eqinor, Shell and Total, will take delivery 
of the concentrated liquified CO2 from the two capture plants and ship it in tailor-
made vessels to Bergen. There it will be unloaded and transported in a seafloor-
mounted pipeline to a CO2 storage site 2 600 meters underground. In Phase 2, 
capacity of the transport and storage will be increased to 5 million tonnes of CO2 per 
year. Parts of the infrastructure for Phase 2 have already been built.
163 Reuters, 20 October 2020, op. cit.
164 UK Government Set to Fund Four CCS Hubs and Clusters, Global CCS Institute, 18 November 2020.
165 “PM outlines his Ten Point Plan for a Green Industrial Revolution for 25 000 jobs”, www.gov.uk, 
18 November 2020.
166 Pale Blue Dot Energy and Carbon Engineering create partnership to deploy Direct Air Capture in the 
UK, Pale Blue Dot, 17 September 2020.
167 See Acorn 
168 D16 Full Chain Development Plan and Budget, Acorn, May 2018.
…but more public sector backing could 
catalyse moree green finance.
The UK government has pledged 
 GBP 1 billion in investment for CCUS. 
The Acorn project applies CCUS to  
a hydrogen production facility. A 
collaboration with a DAC firm will make 
Acorn a negative emissions pilot.
The aim of Norway’s Longship project is 
to create capacity to transport and store 
up to 5 million tonnes of CO2 per year.
Swiss Re Institute The insurance rationale for carbon removal solutions 35
Investment for the Longship Phase 1 pilot is USD 2.1 billion.169 Two thirds is being 
funded by the Norwegian government, and the remainder by the capture operators 
and Northern Lights joint venture. Costs are currently estimated at more that  
USD 100 per tonne CO2 stored.170 Northern Lights foresees USD 400 million in 
annual revenue from its CO2 storage service business during the whole Phase 2 (that 
adds 4 million tonnes of CO2 per year in storage capacity). The total storage capacity 
of the Northern Lights injection site is estimated at 100 million tonnes, meaning that 
the injection well could be operated full capacity for 20 years before expansion is 
needed. The Storage Atlas of the Norwegian Continental Shelf concludes that 
storage capacity along the Norwegian West coast is sufficiently large that it could 
store more than 80 billion tonnes of CO2.171 This is equivalent to 1000 years of 
Norway’s own current annual CO2 emissions, or 20 years of all of the EU27 current 
annual emissions. These numbers demonstrate that carbon management, or “CO2-
as-a-service” could quickly turn into a business, catering a new export industry.172
In view of the growing interest in negative emissions, the Northern Lights joint 
venture has also started to look into sources of biogenic or air-captured CO2. 
Stockholm Exergi plans to capture CO2 from its biomass fuelled district heat and 
power plant Värtaverket, and ship it to the Northern Lights injection facility.173 In 
March 2021, Northern Lights announced a partnership with Swiss air-capture 
pioneer Climeworks to explore a DACS project in Norway.174
Buying carbon removal services
To achieve net zero emissions by 2050 or ideally earlier, companies should consider 
their sustainability strategy and business models. They first have to tackle those 
emissions for which they are directly responsible, in other words emissions from own 
operations. A robust net-zero strategy for operational emissions builds on separate 
targets for: 1) stringent emission reductions; and 2) balancing any emissions that 
cannot be avoided by an equivalent amount of negative emissions through carbon 
removal. The strategy should prioritise the former. Companies should seek to reduce 
emissions as fast and as much as possible in order to minimize the need for 
potentially very expensive negative emissions. Setting a separate target with interim 
milestones for carbon removal is important to alleviate the free-rider problem: if all 
firms were to wait until 2049 before removing unavoidable emissions in anticipation 
of falling prices in carbon removal technology, there would be a shortfall in know-
how, capacity and affordability of removal services in 2050. Since early 2020, 
dozens of banks and insurers have committed to net-zero emissions in their own 
operations.175 Achieving net-zero will be easier for the financial industry with higher 
net income per tonne of operational emissions than production industries such as 
mining, cement or textiles. Large banks and insurers, for example, have 
comparatively little in the way of direct emissions, and ample resources to deal with 
them. Customer-facing industries also tend to have larger financial means.176
169 Funding for Longship and Northern Lights approved, Norwegian government, 13 December 2020.
170 Reuters, 20 October 2020, op. cit.
171 See Norwegian Petroleum Directorate website, accessed 24 February 2021.
172 Reuters, 20 October 2020, op. cit.
173 Stockholm plans world’s first carbon-negative district heating, Recharge, 28 January 2020.
174 Climeworks and Northern Lights to jointly explore direct air capture and CO2 storage in Norway 
Northern Lights, 9 March 2021.
175 Accelerating Net Zero – Exploring Cities, Regions, and Companies’ Pledges to Decarbonise, Data 
Driven EnviroLab, NewClimate Institute, September 2020.
176 Net-Zero Challenge: The supply chain opportunity, World Economic Forum in collaboration with Boston 
Consulting Group, January 2021.
The storage capacity at the Longship site 
could cover 20 years of EU27 emissions. 
Possibilities to expand the project to 
include biogenic or air-captured CO2  
are being explored. 
Beyond reducing emissions, the financial 
industry is in prime position to act as 
early buyer of removal services. 
36 Swiss Re Institute The insurance rationale for carbon removal solutions
The role of insurance
The most material direct emission sources of an insurer are business travel, data 
centres, office space and commuting. Net-zero targets must trigger serious 
actions:177 lean travel policies, 100% renewable power including for data centres, 
and green buildings, topped by the setting of an internal price on carbon that 
presents a challenge. The UN Global Compact calls on firms to set a minimum 
internal carbon price of USD 100 per tonne of emissions.178 Until now, companies 
have compensated unavoided emissions through conventional carbon avoidance 
certificates (carbon offsets). Through these, an emitter pays third parties to avoid an 
equivalent amount of emissions to those the emitter itself cannot avoid, as illustrated 
in Figure 6. This type of CO2 compensation qualifies for the claim “climate neutral” 
operations. It does not meet the requirements for a net-zero target, whereby an 
emitter has to buy a certificate from a carbon removal project, proving that unavoided 
emissions have been balanced through an equivalent amount of negative emissions.
 
The market for conventional carbon offsets is fully established, with prices per tonne 
of CO2 typically ranging from less than USD 1 to a maximum USD 20. A market for 
carbon removal certificates has yet to be established. First marketplace initiatives 
have emerged, but the few experiences of larger removal service purchases by 
corporates included an arduous tendering, selection and contracting process (eg, 
Stripe,179 Shopify,180 and Microsoft181). Essentially, removals lack international 
standardisation, are difficult to find, and their price can be significantly higher than 
that for carbon offsets. Prices range from USD 5–10 per tonne of CO2 for some 
already existing projects in the nature-based solutions space, to several hundreds of 
USD per tonne for less developed, technological solutions. The world’s first  
certificates for DACS in Iceland are currently available over the counter for more than 
USD 1000 per tonne of CO2,182 and wholesale for around USD 700–800.183 In this 
environment, business instinct is to favour the cheaper nature-based solutions, in 
particular certificates from forest projects. Over the long run, however, nature-based 
solutions alone may not be sufficient to achieve the goal of limiting global warming 
to well below 2°C (see Why companies should support more than forests below).
177 A. Pineda, A. Chang, et al. Foundations for science-based net-zero target setting in the corporate 
sector – V1.0. Science Based Target Initiative, Data Driven EnviroLab, NewClimate Institute, 2020.
178 Put a price on carbon, UN Global Compact, accessed 28 February 2021.
179 stripe.com, 18 May 2020, op. cit.
180 shopify.com 15 September 2020, op. cit.
181 Microsoft 2021, op. cit.
182 See Climeworks webshop, accessed 28 February 2021.
183 stripe.com, 18 May 2020, op. cit.
To date, purchasing carbon offsets has 
been the status quo of compensating 
operational emissions. 
1 tonne 
of CO2
emitted
by us +
=
1 tonne 
of CO2
emitted
elsewhere
2 tonnes 
of CO2
emitted
Reduce 
Reduce and oﬀset
Claim: “climate neutral”
1 tonne 
of CO2
emitted
by us +
=
1 tonne 
of CO2
avoided
elsewhere
1 tonne 
of CO2
emitted
Reduce and remove
Claim: “net-zero”
1 tonne 
of CO2
emitted
by us
+
=
1 tonne
of CO2
removed
net-zero CO2
Figure 6 
Strategies to manage operational emissions and resulting claims
Source: Swiss Re
Higher prices for carbon certificates from 
technological solutions drives businesses 
towards nature-based solutions.
Swiss Re Institute The insurance rationale for carbon removal solutions 37
Why companies should support more than forests
Currently, most implementation plans behind corporate net-zero pledges favour 
cheaper and more accessible nature-based solution certificates. Forest projects 
dominate corporate purchases of carbon removals services, followed by soil carbon 
sequestration and blue carbon initiatives, in particular mangroves.184 Sustainably run 
forest projects are key to solving the climate issue, and come with a wealth of co-
benefits. However, new forests conflict with other land-use needs like farming or 
ecosystem conservation. Their upper limit removal potential falls short of the amount 
of negative emissions that science predicts will be necessary to hit the 1.5°C global 
warming target: as already stated, the 1.5°C limit requires cumulatively up to 1 000 
billion tonnes of negative emission by 2100, equivalent to around a yearly need of 
10–20 billion tonnes throughout the second half of the century. 
Minx et al. reviewed estimates for the removal potential of forest projects and found 
that existing and new forests will cumulatively be able to store 135 billion tonnes  
of CO2 by the end of the century.185 The yearly potential was assessed at 0.5–3.6 
billion tonnes, with a caveat that such rates could only be sustained in the mid-term 
(until ~2050), and only if no other land-use based carbon removal solutions run in 
parallel. This is due to “bio-physical and socio-economic limits” and “rapid sink 
saturation”.186 Such shortcomings underline that corporates should – in parallel to 
investing in nature-based solutions – start supporting the development and scaling 
of less mature, more expensive but more scalable technological solutions.
A second issue is what type of removals should balance what sources of residual 
emissions. If today’s climate pioneers put all their CO2 compensation money 
exclusively into forest projects, they would essentially buy up all readily available 
land. Then, as land becomes scarce, prices will rise and carbon removal – on 
average – will become more expensive for all, including for less developed markets 
and for industries with hard-to-abate footprints.
If instead companies signal their willingness to pay the first-mover price of more 
scalable and/but more expensive hybrid and technological solutions, the market will 
translate that signal into supply. The immature hybrid and technological solutions will 
start to scale, and prices will come down. This way, the average carbon removal 
certificates will become cheaper for all – hopefully on time for when the world needs 
them at the gigatonne-scale.
The only way to grow the carbon removal industry to the required scale is by creating 
demand: voluntary buyers who act now and can afford the first-mover price, and/or 
lawmakers enforcing compliance markets at the right price point globally. The latter 
seems less realistic than the former. The question is how well-resourced private 
sector institutions like banks and insurers that are able to fund the full portfolio of 
carbon removal solutions, can engage and create demand in the most impactful 
manner. In most cases, buyers of carbon removal services require an attestation of 
their engagement in the form of certificates.187 In most cases, buyers of carbon 
removal services require an attestation of their engagement in the form of 
certificates.188 There are three sourcing options for carbon removal certificates. 
184 Swiss Re keeps its own database of corporate net-zero pledges, a less detailed public database is 
published by the American University of Washington DC, accessed 28 February 2021.
185 J. Minx, et al., 2018, op. cit.
186 S. Fuss, et al., 2018, op. cit.
187 Other than through-purchasing removal certificates, companies could also realise negative emissions 
inside their value chain (= “insetting”: Eg, a chocolate manufacturer sponsors the switch to agroforestry 
and a biochar plant for their cacao farmers), where they may or may not register their action under a 
standard that issues certificates. Furthermore, some stakeholders advocate for contributional claims, 
where companies become climate financiers without insisting on a tonne-by-tonne accounting, but 
some other forms of payment and reporting terms.
188 Other than through-purchasing removal certificates, companies could also realise negative emissions 
inside their value chain (= “insetting”: Eg, a chocolate manufacturer sponsors the switch to agroforestry 
and a biochar plant for their cacao farmers), where they may or may not register their action under a 
standard that issues certificates. Furthermore, some stakeholders advocate for contributional claims, 
where companies become climate financiers without insisting on a tonne-by-tonne accounting, but 
some other forms of payment and reporting terms.
Nature-based solutions, in particular 
forest projects, are important… 
…but fall short in delivering the amount of 
negative emissions required to meet the  
1.5°C global temperature rise target. 
A heavy focus on nature-based solutions 
now will inevitably drive up the price  
and will make it harder for the world as  
a whole to reach net-zero by 2050.
Paying higher prices now for hybrid and 
technological solutions will see prices 
decrease in the future when the world 
needs them at scale. 
Buyers of carbon removal services can 
choose from three sourcing options for 
removal certificates.
38 Swiss Re Institute The insurance rationale for carbon removal solutions
The role of insurance
These come with decreasing levels of commitment and thus impact, but also with 
decreasing level of buyer-vendor interaction, and thus less transactional effort: 
 ̤ Carbon Removal Purchasing Agreements (CRPA) are long-term offtake 
agreements with bespoke volume and price over several years. They are like an 
ERPA for carbon offsets, or a power purchase agreement (PPA) for green 
electricity. The transactional effort is high, but standard contracts where only the 
confirmation and schedule have to be negotiated are likely at some point in time. 
The CRPA guarantees future revenue to the carbon removal service provider, 
which renders the underlying project bankable. Therefore, the CRPA brings new 
removal projects online, making it an impactful sourcing option.
 ̤ Carbon removal purchasing facility (CRPF): A CRPF matches the aggregated 
demand of several buyers with the aggregated supply from a project pipeline 
according to pre-defined participation rules and project criteria.189 For the buyer, 
the transactional effort is lower than for CRPAs because the facility is managed by 
a trustee that administers all contracts, and builds the project pipeline (sourcing, 
due diligence, contracting, registration under a standard if necessary, verification 
oversight). The trustee is paid for these efforts directly from the facility. The 
strength of a CRPF as a market catalyst is that the trustee can use funds from the 
facility to create the project pipeline and provide limited financial support until the 
project can start issuing certificates. After that point, further payments are subject 
to the delivery of certificates. In other words, the facility can to some limited extent 
provide up-front finance, ahead of the bulk result-based payments. This allows 
realisation of projects with promising, but less-proven technologies that would 
otherwise struggle to secure up-front finance from traditional lenders. 
 ̤ One-off purchases (over-the-counter): Buyers who do not want to commit 
long-term can cover their certificates demand year-by-year through one-off 
purchases over-the-counter, via brokers/intermediaries, or through (Dutch) 
auctions. In the absence of established market structures or marketplace 
initiatives, companies may organise their own tender process to directly solicit 
offers from carbon removal providers. While the transactional efforts are limited 
for one-off purchases (with the exception of own tenders), they are also not the 
most impactful. The market risk remains with the seller who may have difficulty to 
scale production in the absence of a bankable contract. Also, certificates sourced 
in this manner stem from existing projects, some of which can be quite old (as in 
the case of forest projects). Buyers whose goal is to bring new, additional removal 
projects online should consider other sourcing options. 
With transactional effort comes chance for direct engagement with a counterparty. 
Today, given the immaturity of the market, the limited number of counterparties can 
automatically be considered the world’s leading carbon removal service providers. If 
an insurer demonstrates willingness to take risks by entering a long-term offtake 
agreement, that firm may be perceived as a credible partner for other risks, and as an 
investor of choice. To this end, buying removals to compensate operational 
emissions can also be a door opener to new insurance business opportunities.
The science is clear: carbon removal is a necessity for net-zero, on top of massive 
emission reduction efforts. Beyond 2050, the world must be able to tackle historic 
emissions and remain net-negative. The scale of the problem is daunting: by 2050, a 
new industry must have capacity to remove the same amount of emissions from the 
atmosphere as coming from humanity’s use of oil and gas today.
189 The single volumes of each buyer are usually small, and they cannot enter CRPAs with sufficiently large 
(and thus economical) projects on their own. Alternatively, the aggregation serves to share the burden 
of the first-mover price, where buyers – for cost control reasons – only want to commit smaller volumes 
on a particular set of removal solutions covered by the facility.
Direct engagement with suppliers via 
purchase agreements can open doors for 
insurers to  new business opportunities.
To reach net-zero, massive emission 
reductions and carbon removal at the 
gigatonne scale are needed. 
Swiss Re Institute The insurance rationale for carbon removal solutions 39
Conclusion
The carbon removal industry is in its infancy and needs to develop quickly. Existing 
barriers standing in the way of market growth need to be overcome. Each stage of the 
value chain faces challenges. Supply-side restrictions such as cost, lack of knowledge 
and resistance to change may slowly progress, but the technological learning curve 
may help alleviate these issues as solutions become more mature and efficient. 
Adding to the difficulty in getting what is still a low-volume industry up and running 
is an undefined and unregulated marketplace and lack of uniform standards.
 
Demand
• practical constraints – cost (ﬁrst-mover 
price), lack of market intelligence
• lack of regulatory requirements 
(mandates)
• net-zero commitments on the rise 
(ﬁnancial), but commitments to carbon 
removal is far behind the actual need
• uncertainties on permanence
• perceived risk of mitigation deterrence
Marketplace
• lack of standards
• lack of regulation of international 
transfers of removal outcomes
• small volumes/no fungibility
Supply
• practical constraints – cost, lack of 
knowhow, resistance to change
• lack of economic incentive
• conﬂict of use – food & feed, 
water, conservation, infrastructure, 
subsurface use, …
• uncertainties on permanence
Source: Swiss Re
A particular hindrance to scaling-up is the first-mover problem. Today the most 
scalable carbon removal solutions are also the most expensive. First-movers will bear 
the high cost of getting the industry to critical mass, while free-riders remain on the 
side lines waiting for prices to fall. Further, there is no business case without carbon 
pricing. The scale-up of carbon removal relies on the existence of stringent climate 
policies, currently absent in most jurisdictions. 
Such issues are typical of an untapped market on the cusp of explosive growth. The 
private sector can leverage and accelerate the deployment of the carbon removal 
industry. Figure 8 illustrates how those with the funds to do so could realise 
meaningful gains by stepping in to de-risk carbon removal services, finance 
developers and projects, and create demand through purchasing carbon removal 
certificates to balance their own operational footprint. The insurance industry is well- 
positioned on all three fronts. Re/insurers’ risk knowledge and transfer capabilities, 
paired with their long-term investment horizon and a high net income per tonne of 
operational emissions, make for ideal carbon removal project partners. 
De-risk
• Take market risk through 
long-term oﬀtake agreements
• Take other exposures, incl. 
property, engineering and 
novel storage reversal covers
Finance
• Invest in suppliers
• Project ﬁnance 
• Other contributions
Buy
• Realize carbon removals inside 
own value chain (insetting)
• Buy carbon removal certiﬁcates   
from external providers
Source: Swiss Re
The industry needs to grow quickly, and 
the many barriers along the carbon 
removal value chain need be overcome.
Figure 7 
Selected barriers to growth in the carbon 
removal value chain
Those able and willing to pay the high 
first-mover price, and stringent support 
policies, are vital for sector development. 
The insurance industry can facilitate 
growth of carbon removal via de-risking, 
financing and buying.
Figure 8 
How insurers can contribute
40 Swiss Re Institute The insurance rationale for carbon removal solutions
Conclusion
For insurers, most carbon removal solutions have clear links to different lines of 
business. For example, soil carbon sequestration and biochar link directly to the 
future of agribusiness; afforestation builds a market for new insurance products to 
replace inefficient storage reversal safeguards from fires and disasters; blue carbon 
products naturally fit within the realm of disaster insurance while also decreasing 
future costs from flooding; and geological CO2 storage opens up new opportunities 
to cover the risk of leakage or induced seismicity via earthquake insurance. For 
classical engineering covers and well-established forest covers, the case for 
insurability is much clearer than for liability questions.
In general, the insurability of carbon removal, in particular the storage liabilities, 
strongly depends on a robust legal and regulatory framework that governs financial 
security obligations and eventually the transfer of liabilities to the public sector.190 
Currently, this is yet to be developed for most carbon removal solutions. Even the 
standard bodies of the voluntary carbon market (Verra, GoldStandard, ACR, etc) have 
not yet come up with methodologies for all types of removals – in particular the 
technological solutions – that would address questions about the risk of storage 
reversal. Altogether, an insurance market for carbon removal solutions has not yet 
taken off. Often voiced is the need for the insurance industry to participate 
proactively in the dialogue between regulators and project developers, or standard 
bodies and project developers. The call is to bring in the risk assessment perspective, 
and clarity as to under which conditions the private insurance industry can engage 
more actively in carbon removal as a risk taker. 
The asset management, investor side of insurance faces barriers to entering the 
carbon removal market. This is due to the still immaturity of the market, and the lack 
of insurance offerings and institutional support that would alleviate some of the 
investment risks. It is unlikely that any potential insurer or other investor would go 
into carbon removal alone. Instead, investors look for opportunities for sidecar 
investments, for instance alongside the oil & gas majors already investing in the 
transition to net-zero. This could smooth initial fears about the maturity of the market. 
Ultimately, the growing momentum of shareholder pressure, tightening climate 
policies, investors’ own net-zero commitments, and rapidly improving technology of 
carbon removal solutions, will attract investors. The question is “how soon?” 
As a buyer of carbon removal services, insurers have the possibility to help create a 
market that will open avenues to new business related to the upcoming carbon 
removal risk pools and asset classes. To this end, their carbon removal purchasing 
strategies need to look ahead and value quality and impact over least-cost options. 
Insurers that take the risk and engage early in carbon removal may find investments 
well-rewarded. At first, they may increase their understanding of the new carbon 
removal risk landscape by offering standard products for the easy-to-cover 
exposures, by investing at a small scale, and by entering long-term offtake 
agreements with select carbon removal providers. Then, as the market matures and 
the risk knowledge consolidates, liability covers for carbon removal services – 
currently considered uninsurable by many – may also become standard business.  
At that point, the front-runners among insurers will profit from the on-the-ground 
experience already gathered. They will be seen as credible insurance partners and 
investors of choice. Eventually, once the carbon removal market reaches its 
perceived trillion-dollar status, there will be a whole lot to insure and to invest in.
190 This is not dissimilar to the insurability of nuclear waste repositories, where the regulator defines the 
level and period of financial securities, as well as the monitoring and verification obligations, before 
accepting the passing of any remaining liabilities from the operator to the public sector in form of a 
suitable governmental body.
There are clear links between carbon 
removal and insurance business cases.
Experts call on the insurance industry to 
get involved in improving the bankability 
of carbon removal projects. 
Investments side-by-side with bigger 
players can lower the barriers for asset 
management.
Impactful purchases of carbon removal 
services may enable further business. 
Early engagement of insurers in the 
carbon removal market will reap a series 
of benefits as the market develops. 
Published by:
Swiss Re Institute
Swiss Re Management Ltd
P.O. Box 
8022 Zurich
Switzerland
Telephone +41 43 285 2551
Email institute@swissre.com
Authors
Dr Mischa Repmann
Dr Oliver Schelske
Dara Colijn
Samendra Prasad 
The authors would like to thank Jan Guddal 
for his work on Table 2 of the report. The 
authors also would like to thank Claudia Bolli, 
Martin Fehr, Marc Germeau, Cherie Gray, 
Jimmy Keime, Thomas Kocher, Elaine 
O’Brien, Gillian Rutherford, Philipp Servatius 
and Lasse Wallquist for their feedback and 
comments on the report.
Editor
Paul Ronke
Managing editor
Dr Christoph Nabholz
Chief Research Officer
The editorial deadline for this study was 24 March 2021.
The internet version may contain slightly updated information.
Graphic design and production: 
Corporate Real Estate & Services / Media Production, Zurich
© 2021
Swiss Reinsurance Company Ltd
All rights reserved.
The entire content of this sigma edition is subject to copyright with all 
rights reserved. The information in this sigma may be used for private or 
internal purposes, provided that any copyright or other proprietary 
notices are not removed. Electronic reuse of the information published in 
sigma is prohibited. 
Reproduction in whole or in part or use for any public purpose is 
permitted only with the prior written approval of Swiss Re and if the 
source reference “The insurance rationale for carbon removal solutions”  
is indicated. Courtesy copies are appreciated. 
Although all the information used in this sigma was taken from reliable 
sources, Swiss Re does not accept any responsibility for the accuracy  
or comprehensiveness of the information given or forward looking 
statements made. The information provided and forward-looking 
statements made are for informational purposes only and in no way 
constitute or should be taken to reflect Swiss Re’s position, in particular  
in relation to any ongoing or future dispute. In no event shall Swiss Re  
be liable for any loss or damage arising in connection with the use of this 
information and readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on 
forward-looking statements. Swiss Re undertakes no obligation to 
publicly revise or update any forward-looking statements, whether as  
a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Order no: 1507780_21_EN
Swiss Re Management Ltd. 
Swiss Re Institute 
Mythenquai 50 /60 
P.O. Box 
8022 Zurich 
Switzerland
Telephone + 41 43 285 2551 
Fax +41 43 282 0075 
institute.swissre.com
