Healthy forests need markets
Using low-quality, fuel-grade wood for biomass production makes commercial  
and environmental sense.
26 August 2022
SUSTAINABLE BIOENERGY
Key takeaways
•  Misunderstandings about the role primary woody biomass plays in providing 
secure, reliable and renewable power will have negative and material impacts 
across Europe and around the world.
• Planned policy changes in Europe risk increasing costs to heat people’s 
homes, jeopardising energy security and failing to meet critical climate targets, 
potentially harming forest health globally.
• European Parliament proposals to introduce a cap and a subsidy ban on utilising 
sustainably sourced, harvesting residues are deeply flawed and will have 
negative impacts on the ability for Europe to meet its decarbonisation targets.
• Biomass should not be sourced from high-quality, high-value sawlogs. EU policy 
decision making on primary woody biomass should ensure this is the case, not 
restrict good, sustainable sources of biomass such as harvesting residues or the 
co-products of forest management.
• Without a market for low-grade or low-value wood there is less incentive for 
landowners to invest in sustainable forestry practices, reducing the overall 
health of forests and increasing the risk of pests, disease, and forest fires.
Introducing restrictions to reduce the use of primary woody biomass will not stop 
harvesting from taking place, which is primarily driven by long-lived, solid wood 
product sectors.
Biomass is the EU’s largest source of renewable energy 
by some distance. In 2020, solid biomass – woodchips, 
pellets, and renewable waste materials – accounted for 
40% of the final consumption of renewable energy.
Solid biomass, like wood pellets, comes from low-grade or low-value wood from 
actively managed working forests. The sale of this wood provides a vital revenue 
stream for commercial foresters practising sustainable forest management. But 
proposed changes to the EU’s Renewable Energy Directive (RED III) will lead to 
unintended consequences for sustainable forestry and the energy sector.
An incentive for active forest management
The low-quality or low-value wood used by the biomass sector includes the 
residues from practices like thinning – periodically felling a proportion of the 
forest to promote healthy, vigorous growth. This is an important element of active 
forest management. Fewer trees mean less competition for light, water and 
nutrients, while the removal of weaker and diseased trees protects against the 
spread of pests.
Less competition and danger helps landowners grow more high-value sawlogs, 
which can be sold for construction and other solid-wood product using sectors. 
This market dynamic makes sawlogs too expensive to use for biomass pellet 
production.
Thinning also minimises the risk of wildfire, maximises carbon sequestration and 
improves biodiversity. In the US Southeast, for example, thinning has helped to 
restore habitats for rare and threatened species that thrive in open pine forests.
Wood removed through thinning includes logs that are too small, misshapen or 
simply unsuitable to be sold as sawlogs, as well as treetops and branches.
The European Parliament proposals under RED III would confusingly put both 
valuable sawlogs and low-grade wood  under the EU classification of ‘primary 
woody biomass’
The proposal would also place extreme restrictions around how energy produced 
using primary woody biomass is accounted for in progress towards renewable 
energy targets. This will negatively  impact the market for low-value wood and 
in turn, reduce economic incentives to sustainably manage forests. Proposals to 
introduce a cap and “phase down” of this type of material will stunt the entire 
growth of the sector, which is at odds to widely held views globally that demand 
for sustainable biomass will increase towards 2050.
Why markets matter
Without a market for lower quality or lower value wood, there is less incentive to 
manage forests sustainably. This increases the risk of pests, disease and wildfire, 
and compromises the long-term health of the forest. Wood that would be removed 
through thinning or final harvest, for example, may be left to rot on site or be 
burned.
In British Columbia, forest owners must, by law, dispose of waste wood, meaning 
millions of tonnes are burned, releasing an estimated 3 million tonnes of CO2 a 
year into the atmosphere.
The biomass sector has long operated in Europe and North 
America; regions where deforestation is currently not a 
threat to working forests even with the sustained use 
of biomass which might become categorised as ‘primary 
woody biomass’.
Through sustainable management the US South, where Drax sources around a 
third of our biomass, saw annual forest growth increase by 112% between 1953 
and 2015, while forest coverage increased by 108%.
