Chapter 15
Other Effects Considered
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 15: OTHER EFFECTS  
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
15-1 
 
 
CONTENTS 
15. Other Effects Considered ................................................................................... 2 
15.1 Introduction ............................................................................................... 2 
15.2 Waste ........................................................................................................ 2 
15.3 Public Health ............................................................................................. 4 
15.4 Climate Change ......................................................................................... 9 
15.5 Aviation ................................................................................................... 10 
15.6 Health and Safety .................................................................................... 10 
15.7 Major Accidents or Disasters ................................................................... 12 
15.8 References .............................................................................................. 13 
 
 
 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 15: OTHER EFFECTS  
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
15-2 
 
15. 
Other Effects  
15.1 
Introduction 
15.1.1 
This chapter addresses topics that are not specifically addressed in the context of 
the main topic chapters elsewhere in this PEIR, or effects which are not considered 
to merit a chapter in their own right, but have been considered in line with requests 
from consultees, including through the Scoping Opinion.  
15.1.2 
This chapter therefore addresses the following topics: 
 
How waste generating by the proposed development will be dealt with; 
 
Public health; 
 
Aviation; and 
 
Health and safety. 
15.1.3 
Although not specifically requested within the Scoping Opinion or consultation, APL 
has also provided an assessment of Major Accidents or Disasters and Climate 
Change for completeness.   
15.2 
Waste 
a) Construction  
15.2.1 
The amount of excavated material is dependent on which route is selected for the 
new Access Road – Option A or Option B. The amount of excavated material 
associated with Option B is currently under further investigation. The amount of 
excavated material will be confirmed within the DCO Application. It is expected, 
however, that there will be excavated material which will be stored within the 
Laydown Area. Management of waste will be controlled and managed via a Site 
Waste Management Plan (SWMP) which will be submitted as part of the DCO 
Application.  
15.2.2 
For the purposes of the traffic assessment in Chapter 12: Traffic, Transport and 
Access it has been assumed that none of the excavated material will be used, as 
this is the worst case scenario. However, the suitability of the excavated material 
can only be determined during construction following a detailed geotechnical site 
investigation by the contractor. 
15.2.3 
The laying of the Electrical and Gas Connections will involve the excavation of a 
trench or drilling, temporary placement of the excavated soil and then backfilling 
with soil. The Gas Connection will require the construction of the AGI. No surplus 
waste materials are expected to arise from this activity if excavated material is 
reused onsite, which is normal practice.  
15.2.4 
The Project will operate in full accordance with the Waste Framework Directive 
(Ref. 15.1), together with the Environmental Permitting (England and Wales) 
Regulations 2016 (Ref. 15.2) and the Waste (England and Wales) Regulations 
2011 (Ref. 15.3) (where relevant).  
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 15: OTHER EFFECTS  
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
15-3 
 
15.2.5 
Section 5.14 of the Overarching National Policy Statement for Energy (NPS EN-1) 
(Ref. 15.4) requires that waste is managed through the ‘waste hierarchy’. It 
explains the relationship with the environmental permitting regime and sets 
assessment principles to be used by the Secretary of State (SoS) in determining an 
application for development consent. The waste hierarchy consists, in order of 
preference, of: 
 
Prevention; 
 
Re-use; 
 
Recycling; 
 
Other recovery (e.g. energy recovery); and 
 
Disposal. 
15.2.6 
In accordance with this ‘waste hierarchy’, Section 4.3 of the South West Wales 
Regional Waste Plan (Ref. 15.5) suggests that the most effective environmental 
solution is to minimise the generation of waste. Where this is not practical, products 
should be reused. Failing that, products should be recycled and only if no other 
option is appropriate should waste be disposed of through incineration or landfill 
(paragraph 4.3.1). Regard is also given to Technical Advice Note 21 (TAN21) (Ref 
15.6), and the National Waste Strategy (Ref 15.7). 
15.2.7 
The SWMP will be submitted as part of the DCO Application and will demonstrate 
how waste volumes are to be minimised and managed during construction. 
Measures for controlling waste will include, amongst others, the appropriate 
storage of excavated spoil and testing for Waste Acceptance Criteria (WAC) to 
determine whether it can be re-used on or off-site. 
15.2.8 
The treatment of waste will follow the waste hierarchy set out in the Regional 
Waste Plan (Ref. 15.5), Technical Advice Note 21 (TAN21) (Ref. 15.6), and the 
National Waste Strategy (Ref. 15.7), with minimisation at source through 
construction planning and Project design, and the Engineering, Procurement, and 
Construction (EPC Contractor) will aim to reuse, or recycle waste where feasible. 
15.2.9 
The National Waste Strategy July 2015 Progress Report (Ref. 15.8) also confirms 
that there is good provision of waste management capacity in South West Wales to 
cover all types of waste arisings including industrial, construction and demolition, 
and hazardous waste. There are licensed thermal treatment, MBT (Mechanical 
Biological Treatment) and physical treatment facilities on the northern and eastern 
edges of the City of Swansea. There are also hazardous waste disposal services 
located at Swansea Enterprise Park.  
15.2.10 
The routes used for construction traffic entering and leaving the Project Site are 
described in Section 3.4 (d) of this PEIR. These routes will be used during 
construction for the removal of any waste materials. 
b) Operation 
15.2.11 
During operation of the Power Generation Plant, a small amount of waste will arise. 
This generated waste will include waste which is both hazardous and non-
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 15: OTHER EFFECTS  
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
15-4 
 
hazardous in nature. Appropriate treatment facilities exist locally, as discussed 
above. Final types and volumes have not yet been confirmed but will be restricted 
to the following: 
 
General office wastes; 
 
Used gas turbine air intake filters. These are typically replaced annually for 
generating station operating constantly and hence will require much less 
frequent replacement for this Project. The air filters contain approximately 
eight tonnes of plastic and steel a substantial proportion of which can be 
recycled or reused; 
 
Small quantities of water from compressor blade washing (five cubic metres 
(m3) of water per month); 
 
Separated oil/sludge from any oil/water separators on site, and used oil, 
chemicals or chemical containers (approximately one tonne per year); and 
 
Other miscellaneous wastes (e.g. scrap metal, used gas bottles). 
15.2.12 
Only small quantities of potentially hazardous waste from the above list will be 
stored on the Generating Equipment Site at any time (final types and volumes have 
not yet been confirmed). Such substances will be held in secured containers under 
appropriate waste management legislation. 
15.2.13 
All waste management practices will be in full accordance with regulatory 
requirements under relevant legislation and the Waste Framework Directive (Ref. 
15.1), and with industry best practice. Waste will be treated and disposed of by 
licensed contractors. Routes for waste removal would be as per operational access 
requirements described in Section 3.4 (d). 
c) Decommissioning 
15.2.14 
A range of waste types are likely to arise during decommissioning and will include 
materials such as structural steel, metal cladding, and block and concrete waste, all 
of which will be suitable for recovery and reuse or recycling. Redundant generating 
equipment will include the turbine, ducting and pipework, generator and associated 
machinery and controls. These will be composed primarily of recyclable metals and 
other materials suitable for specialist commercial recycling and could also involve 
re-use of equipment elsewhere. It is not predicted that significant quantities of 
residual waste requiring disposal will arise during decommissioning. 
15.2.15 
Based on the above, it can be concluded that that no significant effects in relation 
to waste are predicted to arise either during construction, operation or 
decommissioning. 
15.3 
Public Health 
15.3.1 
In its response to the Scoping Report (letter dated 23rd July 2014), Public Health 
England (PHE) identified the local population as a sensitive receptor. The effects on 
public health of impacts to air quality (Section 6.7), noise (Section 7.7), 
groundwater contamination (Section 9.7) and land contamination (Section 10.6) 
have been assessed and the findings included in the relevant topic chapters of this 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 15: OTHER EFFECTS  
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
15-5 
 
PEIR. The relevant topic chapters also describe the risk assessment undertaken, 
the proposed mitigation measures and any residual effects. These assessments 
are summarised below, along with health risks associated with electromagnetic 
fields. 
a) Electromagnetic Fields 
15.3.2 
An Electromagnetic Field (EMF) is a physical phenomenon that is produced by 
electrically charged objects. EMFs comprise electric and magnetic fields:  
 
Electric fields: are the result of voltages applied to electrical conductors and 
equipment. Fences, shrubs and buildings easily block electric fields.  
 
Magnetic fields: are produced by the flow of electric current; however unlike 
electric fields, most materials do not readily block magnetic fields.  
15.3.3 
UK power developers rely on national guidelines in accordance with Government 
advice to ensure that new installations consider health risks based on current 
knowledge. In the absence of statutory regulations to limit the public exposure to 
power-frequency electric or magnetic fields, guidelines published in 1998 by the 
International Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection (ICNIRP) (Ref. 
15.9) are adopted in the UK as set out in National Policy Statement for Electricity 
Networks Infrastructure (EN-5) (Ref. 15.10). 
15.3.4 
Underground cables, as proposed, do not give rise to electric fields above ground 
due to the shielding effect of the cable sheath.  This is explained in the British 
Insulated Callender's Cables (BICC) Electric Cables Handbook (Ref. 15.11).  
15.3.5 
In 1998, the ICNIRP issued guidelines reference level of 100 μT for public exposure 
to magnetic fields at power frequencies. Underneath power lines, magnetic fields 
can be around 20 µT (Ref. 15.12), which is considerably lower than the ICNIRP 
guidelines. The intensity of both electric fields and magnetic fields also diminishes 
with increasing distance from the source. 
15.3.6 
The above-ground components of the Electrical Connection will also lie within the 
Substation where there are already EMFs present that were considered as part of 
the application for the Substation; they will not make a significant difference to the 
EMFs already present. It should also be noted that the general public will not spend 
any prolonged time in close proximity to the Electrical Connection or to the 
Substation. 
15.3.7 
The general public will thus not be exposed to any increase in EMFs from the 
Electrical Connection and there will be no significant effects arising from EMFs. 
b) 
Air Quality 
i. 
Construction and Decommissioning 
15.3.8 
The results of the air quality assessment are set out in Chapter 6: Air Quality. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 15: OTHER EFFECTS  
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
15-6 
 
15.3.9 
The limited numbers of vehicle movements associated with the construction of the 
Project means that significant effects on human health from exhaust emissions are 
not anticipated. 
15.3.10 
The likely significant effects on human health regarding air quality from construction 
and decommissioning of the Project relate to dust/particulate matter generated from 
construction activities (e.g. excavation for new foundations, Gas and Electrical 
Connections). These small particles (<10 µm) can give rise to effects on human 
health when inhaled. 
15.3.11 
With the implementation of dust control measures through the Outline CEMP 
(Appendix 3.1) the effects of the Project are predicted to be negligible or low in 
respect of human health and nuisance dust during construction and 
decommissioning. Additionally, the majority of particulates from construction and 
decommissioning activities settle within a very short distance of any construction 
site. Therefore, no significant effects are predicted in relation to human health. 
ii. Operation 
15.3.12 
The main likely significant effects on human health in relation to air quality arising 
from operation of the Project are associated with the stack emissions from the 
combustion of natural gas in the Generating Equipment releasing emissions of 
NOx. 
15.3.13 
However, modern gas-fired power plants are inherently clean and produce far fewer 
emissions than other fossil fuel power plants (e.g. coal) when compared on an 
energy output basis. Emissions of NOx are strictly limited under national and 
international guidelines such as the Industrial Emissions Directive (IED) (Ref. 
15.13) and the 2017 guidelines on Best Available Technologies (BAT) for large 
combustion plants (Ref, 15.14). Operation of the Generating Equipment will also be 
regulated by NRW under an Environmental Permit, which will limit emissions in line 
with national guidelines. 
15.3.14 
Stack height sensitivity testing was undertaken using the emissions data set out in 
Chapter 6: Air Quality, Table 6.7 and meteorological data from 2012-2016. This 
resulted in a conservative estimate of the minimum stack height required for the 
adequate dispersion of emissions ensuring there would be no impact from 
emissions on human health during operation. This would also ensure legislative 
limits are adhered to and any impacts to other identified receptors are prevented. 
15.3.15 
It was considered that an appropriate metric for determining a suitable stack height 
was that nitrogen deposition over the most affected ecological designated site 
(Lletty Morfil SINC)) should not exceed 1% of the critical load for that site whilst 
also ensuring that impacts on annual mean nitrogen dioxide were below 1% of the 
air quality objective for the protection of human health. No significant health effects 
are anticipated as a result of the operation of the Project. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 15: OTHER EFFECTS  
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
15-7 
 
15.3.16 
During the operational phase, there may be some emissions from vehicles 
accessing the plant for maintenance reasons. However, these will Negligible and 
therefore will not have a significant effect on human health. 
c) 
Noise 
i. 
Construction and Decommissioning 
15.3.17 
Excavation for foundations for buildings across the Project Site, delivery of plant 
and excavation for laying the Gas and Electrical Connection during construction 
could lead to increases in noise in the surrounding area. This will, however, be a 
temporary source of noise. The noise assessment is presented in Chapter 7: 
Noise and Vibration. 
15.3.18 
This noise assessment has considered the impacts on the nearest residential 
properties (and therefore local residents) in accordance with BS4142 (Ref. 15.15). 
The change in noise level from the baseline survey data to that predicted during 
construction/decommissioning was then calculated, see Section 7.7. 
15.3.19 
Construction noise mitigation measures are included in the CEMP (Appendix 3.1). 
In order to keep noise effects from the construction phase to a minimum, all 
construction 
activities 
would 
be 
carried 
out 
in 
accordance 
with 
the 
recommendations of BS5228. 
15.3.20 
It is anticipated that core working hours during construction will be limited by a 
Requirement in the DCO to between 08.00 and 18.00 on weekdays, and between 
08.00 and 13.00 hours on Saturdays and public holidays. Should it be necessary to 
work outside these core hours for certain activities, this would be with the prior 
written agreement of CCS. These limits will not apply during commissioning and 
testing of the Project. 
15.3.21 
With the implementation of mitigation measures to control noise from construction 
activities as set out above and in the Outline CEMP (Appendix 3.1), the residual 
effect at each sensitive receptor is therefore predicted to be Negligible during 
construction. 
ii. Operation 
15.3.22 
During operation, noise could occur from the rotating components of the 
Generating Equipment (e.g. the Gas Turbine Generator) and there will be small 
amounts of noise generated by the AGI as it regulates the flow of gas from the 
National Gas Transmission System to the Generating Equipment. 
15.3.23 
There may also be a limited amount of noise from the Access Road from the small 
number of vehicles accessing the Generating Equipment Site for operation and 
maintenance activities.  
15.3.24 
In respect of noise and vibration during operation, the embedded mitigation to be 
incorporated into the design, include: 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 15: OTHER EFFECTS  
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
15-8 
 
 The Gas Turbine Generator and major compressors are to be housed in 
acoustic enclosures. In addition, these will be housed within secondary 
acoustic enclosures specified at 75 dB(A) Sound Pressure Level at 1 m; 
 Gas turbine air inlet filter and ventilation apertures are to be fitted with 
silencers, and designed such that all sensitive noise receptors benefit from 
screening and/or directivity corrections; 
 Silencers are to be fitted in the exhaust stack. Due to the impracticality of 
screening stack noise, discharge noise will be controlled using these silencers, 
which will be tuned to attenuate low frequencies from the Gas Turbine 
Generator exhausts; 
 All plant items will be controlled to minimise noise of an impulsive or tonal 
nature; and 
 Noise breakout from the stack will be controlled using silencers. To achieve the 
predicted noise levels used in this assessment, noise from the top of the stacks 
should not exceed the maximum octave band sound power levels identified in 
Table 7-8. 
15.3.25 
A Requirement in the DCO (as set out in Appendix 3.1) will impose maximum 
boundary noise limits which are not to be exceeded during operation of the Project. 
The following measures will serve to minimise the impact of noise from the Project: 
 Plant items will be silenced or otherwise controlled through regular 
maintenance since tonal or impulsive noises are considered more annoying 
than continuous noise sources; 
 Inherently quiet plant items will be selected wherever practicable Acoustic 
lagging and low noise trims will be fitted to all pipe-work and noise generating 
valves; and 
 High performance acoustic enclosures will be considered for all plant items 
where practicable, not overlooking smaller plant items such as compressors 
and pumps. 
15.3.26 
If any non-normal and/or emergency operations were to lead to noise levels in 
excess of the agreed limits specified in the DCO Requirements, the operator will 
inform the local authority and residents of the reasons for these operations, the 
anticipated emergency period and the steps to be taken to bring it back to 
compliance. 
15.3.27 
Therefore, following the mitigation measures as outlines above, the impact of noise 
from the Power Generation Plant on human health will not be significant. 
15.3.28 
The residual effect at each of the sensitive receptors is therefore predicted to be 
Negligible during operation and therefore not significant.  
d) Pollution and Contamination 
15.3.29 
A desk based assessment has been carried out to assess the baseline geology and 
ground conditions underlying the Project Site in Chapter 10: Geology, Ground 
Conditions and Hydrogeology. 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 15: OTHER EFFECTS  
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
15-9 
 
i. 
Construction and Decommissioning 
15.3.30 
During construction and decommissioning of the Project, the main potential impacts 
to human health are from; disturbance and mobilisation of potentially contaminated 
soils, groundwater, ground gas impacting on human health, and ground instability.  
15.3.31 
After implementation of good practice methods and mitigation measures such as 
working within and adhering to a detailed CEMP, an outline of which can be found 
at Appendix 3.1, the potential effects on human health are predicted to be 
Negligible, and therefore not significant.  
ii. Operation 
15.3.32 
During the operational phase, there is the potential for the contamination of surface 
water resulting from the flushing of silts and hydrocarbons from areas of 
hardstanding within the Project Site. However, such impacts would be controlled by 
the embedded mitigation measures implicit within the Project, comprising industry 
standard/good practice and measures required to ensure legislative compliance, 
contained within an operational environmental management plan secured through 
the Environmental Permit (EP). 
15.3.33 
The effects following the implementation of embedded mitigation are therefore 
predicted to be Negligible, and therefore not significant.  
15.4 
Climate Change 
15.4.1 
Climate change impacts have been considered throughout each of the individual 
topic chapters, where relevant. Climate resilience has therefore been built into the 
Project design to reduce effects from climate change. The following outlines the 
different topics associated with climate change and reference the relevant chapters 
within this PEIR: 
 
Ecology: Examples of the potential ecological consequences of climate 
change include the shifting of species ranges, loss of species at the limits of 
their ranges, eventual disruption of ecological processes, and damage to the 
wider functioning of ecosystems. However, these effects can be lessened on 
species through the strengthening of ecological networks to allow species to 
migrate as the climate changes. The proposed ecological mitigation (see 
Chapter 8: Ecology) and landscaping scheme (see Chapter 11: Landscape 
and Visual Effects) for this Project seeks to strengthen connectivity in the 
wider area and would therefore contribute to the efforts to provide 
opportunities for species to migrate as the climate changes.  
 
Air Quality: The effects of the Project on climate change from emissions have 
been assessed in Chapter 6: Air Quality. The Project's carbon emissions are 
considered marginal in relation to overall UK emissions and, therefore, 
considering current policy, impacts on climate change from carbon dioxide 
emissions are not considered significant. 
 
Flood Risk: The topic of climate change has also been addressed in 
Appendix 9.1: Flood Consequences Assessment, which considers flood 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 15: OTHER EFFECTS  
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
15-10 
 
risk at the Project Site. An allowance has been made for climate change 
(predicted more frequent and/or more severe rainfall events than historically 
has been the case) in the attenuation storage calculations of 30% above the 1 
in 100 year flood event. This will mean sizing of culverts in the drainage 
design to allow for these potential more severe rainfall events. The impacts on 
climate change from flooding are therefore not considered significant. 
15.5 
Aviation 
15.5.1 
APL engaged with the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA), Ministry of Defence (MoD), 
Abertawe Bro Morgannwg University Health Board (which uses air ambulance 
services in relation to Morriston Hospital) and CCS between June and November 
2014 to seek their views on the likelihood of the Project affecting aviation assets 
and infrastructure. In particular, their views were sought on the effect of 
construction of a stack of up to 40 metres (m) at the Project Site (the anticipated 
maximum height at the time of consultation) 
15.5.2 
The MoD replied on 17th September 2014 to confirm that the Project falls outside of 
any safeguarding areas and therefore it has no objection to the Project. 
15.5.3 
The CAA identified the potential to affect civil aviation in regard to the height of the 
stack with particular reference to Swansea Airport. As part of the EIA the 
safeguarding zone mapping held by CCS has been consulted and the Project falls 
outside these zones. As a result it is concluded that the Project will not affect civil 
aviation activity.  
15.5.4 
Abertawe Bro Morgannwg University Health Board confirmed in an email dated 23rd 
February 2015 that the stack will be just over 1.5 kilometres (km) away. As such 
they will not affect the (Bond Air Services) operations in and out of Swansea 
Morriston Hospital. 
15.5.5 
The CAA, Mod, Abertawe Bro Morgannwg University Health Board and CCS will be 
re-consulted with a maximum stack height of 45 m (increased from the 40m 
previously consulted on), and the location of the stack and construction cranes. The 
final ES will provide the results of that consultation, including any mitigation 
required. 
15.6 
Health and Safety 
a) Construction and Decommissioning 
15.6.1 
The site manager will have the day to day responsibility for maintaining Health and 
Safety throughout the construction period. They will produce a risk assessment and 
method statement detailing how they will minimise the risk. An approved procedure 
which will:  
 
Identify the significant Health & Safety impacts that can be anticipated;  
 
Assess the risks from these impacts;  
 
Identify the control measures to be taken and re-calculate the risk; 
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 15: OTHER EFFECTS  
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
15-11 
 
 
Report where an inappropriate level of residual risk is identified so that action 
can be taken.  
15.6.2 
There is a small risk of construction workers coming into contact with contaminated 
soils and groundwater during construction.  
15.6.3 
There will be no access to construction areas by the general public. The Project 
Site will be secured to avoid unauthorised access. 
15.6.4 
Traffic safety will be promoted by all project personnel to prevention and control 
traffic related injuries. Speed restrictions will be imposed onsite. This will also 
minimise disturbance of bare surfaces.  
15.6.5 
Mitigation measures could include: 
 
The provision of suitable Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), including 
footwear, masks, protective clothing and goggles. 
 
Eating, drinking and smoking will be limited to a designated ‘clean’ area of the 
site; 
 
Site welfare facilities will be made available; 
 
All workers will be required to wash their hands and remove overalls/boots 
when moving from ‘dirty’ to ‘clean’ areas of the site; 
 
Any soils excavated which are considered to be potentially contaminated will 
be reported to site management and left in situ and fenced off until their 
appropriate treatment; and 
 
Water inflows to excavated areas will be minimised by the use of lining 
materials, good housekeeping techniques and by the control of drainage and 
construction materials in order to prevent the contamination of ground water. 
15.6.6 
The employer will ensure that qualified first-aid can be provided at all times. 
Appropriately equipped first-aid stations will be easily accessible throughout the 
place of work. 
b) 
Operation 
15.6.7 
Routine maintenance of the Generating Equipment would take place on average 
once every six months. Bi-annual inspections will also take place to assess general 
condition. Inspections to replace or refurbish combustion and turbine ‘hot parts’ 
equipment are typically carried out approximately every six years.  
15.6.8 
In the event of an issue with the Generating Equipment, alarms would signal any 
instance of abnormal operation. These alarms would not be audible externally. The 
plant would be shut down immediately in such instances and, if required, additional 
engineering staff would attend the Project Site. The Generating Equipment would 
not start up again until the issue had been resolved. Alarms would only be audible 
outside where there was an event affecting personnel safety such as a fire alarm. 
Operational maintenance is described in more detail in Section 3.4 of Chapter 3: 
Project Site and Description.  
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 15: OTHER EFFECTS  
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
15-12 
 
15.6.9 
It is considered that effect on health and safety is Negligible, which is therefore not 
significant.  
15.7 
Major Accidents or Disasters  
15.7.1 
The Project’s vulnerability to risk of major accidents and disasters is considered in 
the following sections. Details on appropriate prevention measures and mitigation 
for significant effects on the environment from such events are either provided in 
the sections below or within the referenced chapters.    
a) Air Quality Events 
15.7.2 
In an air quality event where metrological conditions such as prevailing winds or 
inversion result in reduced air quality, the Project, as an emitter to air, has the 
potential to exacerbate the effect of the event. The effect of the Project on air 
quality has been considered within this PEIR. Details on the air quality assessment, 
prevention measures and appropriate mitigation to control the Project’s emissions 
to air can be found in Chapter 6: Air Quality. Limits are also set within the 
Environmental Permit to regulate emission levels. 
b) Engineering or Industrial Accidents 
15.7.3 
Due to fencing, and distance from residential areas, engineering and industrial 
accidents are limited to on-site workers. Existing legal protection for construction 
workers is considered to be sufficient to minimise any risk from major events to a 
reasonable level. Legislation in force to ensure the protection of workers in the 
workplace includes: 
 
Health and Safety at Work etc. Act 1974 (HSWA);  
 
The Management of Health and Safety at Work Regulations 1999;  
 
The Workplace (Health, Safety and Welfare) Regulations 1992;  
 
The Control of Substances Hazardous to Health Regulations 2002; and  
 
Construction (Design and Management) (CDM) 2015 Regulations. 
15.7.4 
Given the nature of natural gas there is an inherent risk of both fire and gas leak 
and explosion associated with the Project from its supply and use. The Project has 
been designed to comply with industry safety standards and to meet legislative 
requirements for safe operation.  
c) Proximity to Other Third Party Infrastructure  
15.7.5 
The Project is in close proximity to other third party infrastructure features namely 
the Substation, Felindre Gas Compressor Station, Water Main along with other 
utilities such as the National Gas Transmission System.  
15.7.6 
Mitigation has been embedded via the design of the Project by implementing 
appropriate minimum distances and having due regard to the required standoff 
distances between the Project and these infrastructure features.  
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 15: OTHER EFFECTS  
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
15-13 
 
It is anticipated that potential major accidents and disasters resulting from third 
party infrastructure would be unlikely as the appropriate operational safety 
procedures relative to that installation would be implemented on a day to day basis, 
is regularly maintained and is closely monitored. In addition, the standoff distances 
from and to the Project would also take account of any effects from third party 
infrastructure on the Project. The Project is also being closed to the public and not 
in close proximity to residential areas/centres of population. 
15.8 
References 
Ref. 15.1 
Directive 2008/98/EC, Waste Framework Directive (2008), L 312/3.  
Ref. 15.2 
Environmental Permitting (England and Wales) Regulations 2016.  
Ref. 15.3 
Waste (England and Wales) Regulations 2011. 
Ref. 15.4 
Department of Energy and Climate Change (2011). Overarching National 
Policy Statement for Energy (EN-1). 
Available at: 
https://www.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/
47854/1938-overarching-nps-for-energy-en1.pdf  
[Accessed: 26/10/17]. 
Ref. 15.5 
South West Wales Regional Waste Group (2008). South West Wales 
Regional Waste Plan. 1st Review. 
Available: https://www.bridgend.gov.uk/media/164585/SD112.pdf 
[Accessed: 26/10/17].  
Ref. 15.6 
Welsh Government (2014) Technical Advice Note 21: Waste. [Online] 
Available at: http://gov.wales/docs/desh/publications/170223technical-advice-
note-21-en.pdf [Accessed 22/11/2017]  
Ref. 15.7 
Welsh Assembly Government (2010) Towards Zero Waste – One Wales: One 
Planet. Available at: 
http://gov.wales/docs/desh/publications/100621wastetowardszeroen.pdf 
[Accessed 22/11/2014] 
Ref 15.8 
Welsh Government (2015) Towards Zero Waste – 2010-2050: Progress 
Report July 2015. Available at: 
http://gov.wales/docs/desh/publications/150724-towards-zero-waste-progress-
report-en.pdf [Access 22/11/2017] 
Ref. 15.9 
ICNIRP (1998). ICNIRP Guidelines for Limiting Exposure to Time‐Varying 
Electric, Magnetic and Electromagnetic Fields (up to 300 Ghz). Health 
Physics 74 (4):494‐522.  
Ref. 15.10 
Department of Energy and Climate Change (2011). National Policy Statement 
for Electricity Networks Infrastructure (EN-5),  
Available: 
https://www.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/
47858/1942-national-policy-statement-electricity-networks.pdf 
[Accessed: 06/11/17].   
Ref. 15.11 
BICC Cables (1997). Electric Cables Handbook. Blackwell Science Ltd., 
Padstow, Uk.  
Abergelli PEIR 2018 – CHAPTER 15: OTHER EFFECTS  
 
Prepared for:  Abergelli Power Limited 
 
AECOM 
15-14 
 
Ref. 15.12 
World Health Organisation (2007) Exposure to extremely low frequency fields. 
Available: http://www.who.int/peh-emf/publications/facts/fs322/en/           
[Accessed: 23/11/17].   
Ref. 15.13 
Directive 2010/75/EU. Industrial Emissions Directive. (2010). L 334/17. 
Ref. 15.14 
European Commission (2017) Best Available Techniques (BAT) Reference 
Document for Large Combustion Plants 
Ref. 15.16 
BS4142:2014 Methods for Rating and Assessing Industrial and Commercial 
Sound.  
 
