Greenhouse  
gas removal
Cover image Visualisation of global atmospheric carbon dioxide 
surface concentration by Cameron Beccario, earth.nullschool.net, 
using GEOS-5 data provided by the Global Modeling and Assimilation 
Office (GMAO) at NASA Goddard Space Flight Center.
In 2017 the Royal Society and Royal Academy of Engineering 
were asked by the UK Government to consider scientific 
and engineering views on greenhouse gas removal. This 
report draws on a breadth of expertise including that of the 
Fellowships of the two academies to identify the range of 
available greenhouse gas removal methods, the factors that 
will affect their use and consider how they may be deployed 
together to meet climate targets, both in the UK and globally.
Greenhouse gas removal 
Issued: September 2018 DES5563_1
ISBN: 978-1-78252-349-9 
The text of this work is licensed under the terms of the Creative 
Commons Attribution License which permits unrestricted use, 
provided the original author and source are credited. 
The license is available at: 
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0
Images are not covered by this license.
This report can be viewed online at: 
royalsociety.org/greenhouse-gas-removal 
raeng.org.uk/greenhousegasremoval
Contents
List of abbreviations 
5
GGR methods 
6
Foreword 
7
Executive summary 
8
Recommendations 
10
Introduction  
13
Chapter one – Greenhouse gas removal 
17
1.1 
The carbon cycle 
18
1.2 
Removal and storage 
20
Chapter two – GGR methods 
25
2.1 
Afforestation, reforestation and forest management 
26
2.2 Wetland, peatland and coastal habitat restoration 
29
2.3 Soil carbon sequestration 
32
2.4 Biochar  
35
2.5 Bioenergy with carbon capture and storage (BECCS) 
39
2.6 Ocean fertilisation 
43
2.7 Building with biomass 
46
2.8 Enhanced terrestrial weathering 
49
2.9 Mineral carbonation 
53
2.10 Ocean alkalinity 
56
2.11 Direct air capture and carbon storage (DACCS) 
59
2.12 Low-carbon concrete 
62
2.13 Other GGR approaches 
65
2.14 Removal of gases other than CO2 
66
Chapter three – Cross-cutting issues 
69
3.1 
Introduction 
70
3.2 Resources 
71
3.3 Storage  
74
3.4 Environment 
77
3.5 Science and technology 
79
3.6 Economics 
81
3.7 
Legislation 
84
3.8 Social aspects 
86
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL 
3
CONTENTS
Chapter four – Scenarios 
89
4.1 
GGR pathway building 
90
4.2 UK scenario – annual GGR of 130 MtCO2 in 2050 
91
4.3 Global scenario – 810 GtCO2 by 2100 
104
Chapter five – Lessons learned from scenarios 
113
5.1 
Lessons learned from scenarios 
114
Acknowledgments, working group and staff 
120
References 
124
4 
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL
CONTENTS
List of abbreviations
BECCS – bioenergy with carbon capture  
and storage
C – carbon
CCS – carbon capture and storage
CO2 – carbon dioxide 
CO2e – carbon dioxide equivalents.  
A measure used to compare warming levels 
between CO2 and other greenhouse gases
DAC – direct air capture
DACCS – direct air capture with carbon storage
kJ/MJ/GJ/EJ – kilojoules/megajoules/ 
gigajoules/exajoules
GGR – greenhouse gas removal
ha – hectare
IPCC – Intergovernmental Panel on 
Climate Change
NDC – nationally determined contributions
pa – per annum
ppm – parts per million 
SDGs – United Nations Sustainable 
Development Goals
SRM – solar radiation management
TRL – technology readiness level
TWh – terawatt hours
tCO2/MtCO2/GtCO2 – tonnes/megatonnes/ 
gigatonnes of carbon dioxide, where literature  
cites values in terms of carbon (tC/MtC/GtC)  
these have been converted to CO2  
by multiplying by 3.7
$ – currency throughout the report is 
presented in USD unless stated otherwise.
ABBREVIATIONS
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL 
5
Greenhouse gas removal  
(GGR) methods
Forestation – Growing new trees and 
improving the management of existing forests. 
As forests grow they absorb CO2 from the 
atmosphere and store it in living biomass, 
dead organic matter and soils.
Habitat restoration – Restoration of peatlands 
and coastal wetlands to increase their ability 
to store carbon. This also prevents carbon 
release through further degradation, often 
providing a number of other co-benefits.
Soil carbon sequestration – Changing 
agricultural practices such as tillage or crop 
rotations to increase the soil carbon content.
Biochar – Incorporating partially-burnt biomass 
into soils. Biomass is grown and burned in 
the absence of oxygen (pyrolysis) to create 
a charcoal-like product which can stabilise 
organic matter when added to the soil.
Bioenergy with carbon capture and storage 
(BECCS) – Utilising biomass for energy, 
capturing the CO2 emissions and storing them 
to provide life cycle GGR.
Ocean fertilisation – Applying nutrients to the 
ocean to increase photosynthesis and remove 
atmospheric CO2.
Building with biomass – Using forestry 
materials in building extends the time of 
carbon storage of natural biomass and enables 
additional forestry growth.
Enhanced terrestrial weathering – Ground 
silicate rocks spread on land react with CO2 
to remove it from the atmosphere.
Mineral carbonation – Accelerating the 
conversion of silicate rocks to carbonates 
either above or below the surface to provide 
permanent storage for CO2.
Ocean alkalinity – Increasing ocean 
concentration of ions like calcium to increase 
uptake of CO2 into the ocean, and reverse 
acidification.
Direct air capture and carbon storage (DACCS) 
– Using engineered processes to capture 
atmospheric CO2 for subsequent storage.
Low-carbon concrete – Altering the 
constituents, the manufacture, or the recycling 
method of concrete to increase its storage 
of CO2.
GGR METHODS
6 
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL
Foreword 
There is overwhelming scientific evidence that 
the human release of greenhouse gases is 
changing the Earth’s climate. At Paris, countries 
from around the world committed to limiting 
the damage caused by this change, agreeing 
to keep warming to under 2°C. 
The role of rapid emissions reduction in 
meeting this target is widely understood. But it 
is increasingly clearer that reducing emissions 
is not enough – we must also actively remove 
greenhouse gases from the atmosphere. 
New technologies have emerged that show 
promise in removing CO2 from the atmosphere 
but these are not well understood and mostly 
unproven at large scale.
This report brings together the expertise 
of the Royal Society and Royal Academy of 
Engineering to outline how much we know 
now about each of these methods and, for 
the first time, to consider how they might 
be deployed alongside each other to meet 
climate goals in the UK and internationally.
The two scenarios in this report identify the 
suite of technologies that together can help 
us get to a carbon neutral future in the UK by 
2050, and globally by the end of the century. 
They are a sobering reminder of how much 
work there is to do to secure the wellbeing 
of our planet.
The challenge ahead is not insurmountable, 
but it requires the full weight of the world’s 
research community. Scientists and engineers 
of all types will need to pull together with 
social scientists, economists, the public and 
policymakers to develop, deploy and manage 
methods that range from planting trees 
to engineering the direct removal of CO2 
from the air. 
This remains a developing field and much 
will change over the coming decades, but 
as this report shows, action must begin now.
Top
Professor Dame Ann 
Dowling, President of 
the Royal Academy 
of Engineering.
Bottom
Venki Ramakrishnan, 
President of the 
Royal Society.
FOREWORD
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL 
7
Executive summary
In 2015, governments from around the world 
met to agree a framework that would minimise 
the negative consequences of climate change. 
The Paris Agreement sets a goal to limit global 
average temperature increase to ‘well below 
2°C above preindustrial levels’, and to ‘pursue 
efforts’ to limit it to 1.5°C.
This is an ambitious task requiring rapid 
decreases in emissions and, by the second 
half of the century, net-zero emissions. 
In some sectors, notably agriculture and 
aviation, greenhouse gas emissions will be 
difficult to eliminate entirely, so we will need 
technologies to compensate by removing 
greenhouse gases from the atmosphere. 
Modelling of future energy systems suggests 
this removal would need to be at a large scale, 
with removal of about one quarter of present 
annual emissions each year.
Greenhouse gas removal (GGR) methods 
involve two main steps: the removal of 
greenhouse gases from the atmosphere and 
their storage for long periods. The process 
is best established for carbon dioxide (CO2) 
removal. Removal is achieved through a wide 
variety of approaches, involving either biology, 
accelerating natural inorganic reactions with 
rocks, or engineered chemical processes. The 
carbon is then stored in land-based biomass, 
sub-surface geological formations, the oceans, 
or the built environment.
GGR methods require resources, like land, 
energy or water, placing limits on the scale 
and location of their application, and leading to 
resource competition between them and with 
other human activities, such as food production. 
Some GGR methods also provide co-benefits 
that could assist, or even be the primary 
reason for, deployment; these can include crop 
productivity and biodiversity enhancements.
Achieving the desired level of GGR will be 
best achieved by using a suite of approaches. 
Increased forestation and bioenergy with 
carbon capture and storage (BECCS) are often 
considered as major routes to deploy GGR, 
but they are limited by available land area, 
resource requirements and potential impacts 
on biodiversity and social equity. Deployment 
of these as part of a suite of methods would 
decrease likely environmental and social 
impacts anticipated at large scale. 
Some GGR methods are already in use today, 
while others require significant development 
and demonstration before they can remove 
emissions at scale. When considered at the 
scale required, none of the methods have 
been fully evaluated across their life cycle.
GGR methods impact the environment in 
different ways. As such, their development will 
require careful assessment of environmental 
implications, during demonstration pilot 
studies, ramp-up, and full deployment. These 
sustainability issues will be among those that 
influence public perception of GGR, which 
ranges widely depending on the method 
and location, and may place constraints on 
their applicability.
Early deployment of GGR methods and their 
rapid ramp-up would make it easier to achieve 
climate targets, and help to avoid a damaging 
climate ‘overshoot’. Biological approaches for 
land carbon storage can be applied quickly, 
but these will saturate after some decades so 
other GGR methods are expected to become 
critical later in the century.
To be economic and, therefore, to be pursued 
at adequate scale, most GGR methods require 
a price for carbon or other incentive system. 
Future projections of carbon prices of $100 per 
tonne of CO2, if realised, would make many 
GGR methods economically feasible. 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
8 
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL
This report considered two GGR scenarios; 
achieving net-zero emissions in the UK in 
2050; and limiting the global temperature rise 
on pre-industrial levels to 1.5°C as of 2100. 
UK net-zero in 2050
In the UK, reducing greenhouse gas emissions 
to the greatest degree considered feasible 
would leave remaining emissions of around 
130 MtCO2 pa by 2050. Offsetting these 
emissions with GGR to reach ‘net-zero’ for the 
UK is possible, but very challenging. It involves 
deployment of many different GGR methods, 
and import of biomass. To achieve this level of 
GGR requires a ramp-up of forestation, habitat 
restoration and soil carbon sequestration 
now, research and development of currently 
unproven but promising GGR methods, and 
establishment of substantial infrastructure and 
capacity for carbon capture and storage (CCS). 
Global cumulative GGR compatible with  
1.5°C by 2100
Integrated assessment models provide 
evidence that a cumulative GGR of around 
810 GtCO2 is expected to be required 
from now until 2100 to limit the rise in 
temperature to 1.5°C on pre-industrial times. 
This is the equivalent to about 15 years of 
2017 greenhouse gas emissions. The large 
land area available globally for potential 
GGR deployment make this global target 
achievable, but still highly challenging. Many 
natural sinks will become saturated in this 
time frame, requiring a diversity of GGR 
approaches. Monitoring and maintenance will 
be required to prevent carbon being released 
from storage. Trading schemes could help 
action to be taken in the most effective and 
economical locations.  
Considering a global response enables 
significant potential for GGR but action 
across national borders would likely require 
a political solution.
•  Pursue rapid ramp-up of forestation, 
habitat restoration, and soil carbon 
sequestration, across large UK  
land-areas.
•  Establish an incentive or subsidy system 
to encourage changes of land practice, 
particularly for soil carbon sequestration. 
This could form part of the framework 
put in place to replace the EU Common 
Agricultural Policy.
•  Encourage changes in building practice 
to use wood and concrete manufactured 
with carbonated waste (while recognising 
overall limited potential for GGR of these 
approaches).
•  Develop monitoring and verification 
procedures and programmes to track 
the effectiveness of GGR delivered by 
each method.
•  Grow and import sustainable biomass 
at large scale to meet the need for both 
energy and GGR demands. 
•  Pursue research into the GGR potential  
of enhanced weathering and biochar  
in UK agricultural soils, and into BECCS  
and DACCS for longer term deployment. 
This should include assessment of the 
co-benefits, social and environmental 
risks, monitoring and evaluation, and 
include field-based pilot demonstrations. 
•  Capitalise on UK access to suitable 
reservoirs for CCS, and relevant 
engineering and industry expertise, 
to establish substantial infrastructure 
for transport and storage of CO2.
Key actions for UK net-zero
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL 
9
Recommendations
Greenhouse gas removal (GGR) from the atmosphere will be required to fulfil the aims of the 
Paris agreement on climate change. This report recommends the following international action 
to achieve this GGR:
RECOMMENDATION 1
Continue and increase global 
efforts to reduce emissions 
of greenhouse gases. Large-
scale GGR is challenging and 
expensive and not a replacement 
for reducing emissions.
RECOMMENDATION 2
Implement a global suite of GGR 
methods now to meet the goals 
of the Paris Agreement. This suite 
should include existing land-
based approaches, but these are 
unlikely to provide sufficient GGR 
capacity so other technologies 
must be actively explored.
RECOMMENDATION 3
Build CCS infrastructure. Scenario 
building indicates that substantial 
permanent storage, presently 
only demonstrated in geological 
reservoirs, will be essential to 
meet the scale required for 
climate goals.
RECOMMENDATION 4
Incentivise demonstrators and 
early stage deployment to enable 
development of GGR methods. 
This allows the assessment of 
the real GGR potential and of the 
wider social and environmental 
impacts of each method. It would 
also enable the process of cost 
discovery and reduction.
RECOMMENDATIONS
10 
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL
RECOMMENDATION 7
Build GGR into regulatory 
frameworks and carbon trading 
systems. In the UK, as an 
example, active support for 
GGR implementation (soil carbon 
sequestration, forestation, habitat 
restoration) should be built into 
new UK agricultural or land 
management subsidies.
RECOMMENDATION 8
Establish international science-
based standards for monitoring, 
reporting and verification 
for GGR approaches, both 
of carbon sequestration and 
of environmental impacts. 
Standards currently exist for 
biomass and CCS, but not for 
GGR methods at large.
RECOMMENDATION 5
Incentivise removal of atmospheric 
greenhouse gases through carbon 
pricing or other mechanisms. GGR 
has financial cost at scale and 
so will require incentives to drive 
technological development and 
deployment of a suite of methods.
RECOMMENDATION 6
Establish a framework to govern 
sustainability of GGR deployment. 
Undertake rigorous life cycle 
assessments and environmental 
monitoring of individual methods 
and of their use together.
RECOMMENDATIONS
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL 
11
Image
Hellisheidi Power Plant.  
Photo Arni Saeberg © Carbfix.
Introduction
The 2015 Paris Agreement, signed by 
194 countries and the European Union, 
demonstrated international recognition of 
the challenges imposed by climate change 
and the need for action to limit its impacts 
on humanity and our planet. The agreement 
seeks to limit future warming to well below 
2°C above pre-industrial temperatures, and 
to attempt to keep it below 1.5°C. 
To reach these targets, it states:
“Parties aim to reach global peaking of 
greenhouse gas emissions as soon as 
possible, recognizing that peaking will take 
longer for developing country Parties, and to 
undertake rapid reductions thereafter in 
accordance with best available science, so as 
to achieve a balance between anthropogenic 
emissions by sources and removals by sinks 
of greenhouse gases in the second half of 
this century, on the basis of equity, and in 
the context of sustainable development and 
efforts to eradicate poverty1.”
Even with reductions in emissions at the 
maximum rate deemed reasonable it is 
challenging, or impossible, to meet this aim of 
‘net-zero’ emissions – by balancing sources 
and removals – on the required timescale, and 
so too the temperature targets. Notably, some 
industries, including air travel and agriculture, 
produce emissions that can be reduced, but 
not likely eliminated completely. To counteract 
these emissions will require enhancing the 
‘sinks’ of greenhouse gases through the 
implementation of greenhouse gas removal 
(GGR). In practice this will mainly be carbon 
dioxide removal but we use the more general 
term GGR for completeness.
One way in which future emissions are 
evaluated is through so-called integrated 
assessment models. These consider future 
energy demands and provide scenarios for 
potential energy systems – including mixes of 
different forms of energy and deployment of 
different technologies – given different sets of 
economic, environmental, social and industrial 
constraints. Of the integrated assessment 
model scenarios considered at the time of the 
Paris Agreement, 87% of those that expect to 
achieve 2°C, and all those that expect 1.5°C, 
involved GGR as well as emissions reductions. 
Subsequent models have supported this 
view. Only very dramatic and rapid emissions 
reduction will allow the 2°C target to be met 
without GGR, and there are no recognised 
routes to achieve 1.5°C without GGR.
The need for GGR, in addition to rapid 
emissions reductions, makes assessment 
and development of viable approaches to 
large-scale GGR important. This importance 
has been acknowledged at national level in 
many countries, including in the UK, where the 
government’s Clean Growth Strategy (October 
2017) recognises the need to develop diverse 
approaches to GGR, and to go beyond its 
present commitments under the Climate 
Change Acta to, “legislate for net-zero at an 
appropriate point in the future”.
The scale of GGR required is large. Most global 
scenarios indicate that several hundred GtCO2
b 
must be removed by the end of the century to 
meet 2°C, and close to a thousand GtCO2 for 
1.5°C. This compares to current annual CO2 
emissions of c. 40 GtCO2, indicating the scale 
of the activity required to achieve sufficient 
GGR. These scenarios also indicate that GGR 
will need to commence now and ramp-up 
rapidly in subsequent decades (Figure 1). 
a.  The Climate Change Act (2008) commits the UK to reduce national greenhouse gas emissions by at least 80%, relative to 1990 levels, 
by 2050, and provides the legally-binding framework to achieve that commitment.
INTRODUCTION
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL 
13
Source: UNEP Emissions Gap report 2018.
Future emissions and removals of greenhouse gases. To meet the 2°C goals of the Paris 
Agreement requires rapid and dramatic decreases in emissions (in blue), but also active removal 
of greenhouse gases from the atmosphere (in green), commencing in the next decade.
FIGURE 1
Greenhouse gas emissions (GtCO2e/year)
-20
2020
2070
2010
2060
2030
2080
2040
2090
2050
2100
-10
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
Reduced 
greenhouse gas 
emissions
Other greenhouse gas
CO2
Net-zero emissions
Net negative 
greenhouse gas 
emissions
Gross negative  
CO2 emissions
Gross positive 
greenhouse gas 
emissions CO2 from 
fossil fuels, industry 
and land use changes 
methane, N2O and 
F-Gases
Below 2°C
Business as usual
= Reduced emissions
+ Emissions
GGR methods
–
INTRODUCTION
14 
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL
Many models have assumed that the required 
GGR will be met by growing of forests and 
the use of bioenergy coupled to carbon 
capture and storage (BECCS). But there are 
a wide range of other approaches to GGR, 
which rely on biology, accelerating natural 
inorganic reactions, or engineered industrial 
approaches. Assessing what a viable suite 
of GGR methods might comprise requires 
consideration of the potential, constraints 
and risks of all of these various approaches, 
and is the overall goal of this report. 
The report is structured in three parts:
GGR methods: a description of each 
method, under set subheadings that capture 
critical issues, such as scalability, cost, and 
environmental risk.
Cross-cutting issues: a summary of the issues 
(resource, economic, societal and others) 
involved in establishing a suitable suite of 
GGR methods.
Scenarios: development of two example 
GGR scenarios; for the UK to achieve net-zero 
emissions by 2050, and to maintain global 
temperatures below 1.5°C in 2100. 
Limitations of this report
The report is limited to GGR approaches that 
have global potential on the GtCO2 scale. This 
limits the inclusion of some technologies that 
make use of the carbon extracted from the 
atmosphere. Some of these technologies, 
notably building with wood and low-carbon 
concrete, have been suggested as significant 
for GGR and are considered here. Others 
(such as production of liquid biofuel or 
chemical feedstocks) are not presently able to 
achieve GGR at scale and are not considered, 
although future developments may allow 
such technologies to become important for 
global CO2 budgets2,3. Many of the methods 
discussed in this report provide both GGR 
and emissions reduction or avoidance, but the 
benefits discussed are limited to those from 
GGR unless stated otherwise.
This report does not consider carbon capture 
and storage (CCS) in detail. Availability of CCS 
is important for the pursuit of several GGRs 
and therefore it is mentioned throughout the 
report, but the scientific, technical or economic 
issues relating to CCS have been addressed 
in a wide range of other forums4 and such 
discussion is not repeated here.
In addition, this report does not consider 
solar radiation management (SRM) as a 
form of climate control. SRM and GGR have 
sometimes been considered together under 
the title geoengineering5, but are very different 
approaches to mitigate climate change with 
different risks and outcomes. This report only 
discuses GGR approaches, and is motivated 
by the need to pursue GGR to meet the goals 
of the Paris Agreement.
INTRODUCTION
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL 
15
Chapter one
Greenhouse gas removal
Left
Pine forest in Oregon.  
© franckreporter.
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL 
17
1.1 The carbon cycle
A number of gases in the atmosphere alter 
the energy balance of the Earth to cause the 
so-called greenhouse effect. Human activity 
has increased the concentration of several of 
these greenhouse gases, with the rise in the 
level of carbon dioxide (CO2) being the most 
significant cause of anthropogenic climate 
change6. Nearly all proposed approaches 
to remove greenhouse gases from the 
atmosphere focus on removal of CO2.
GGR must be performed at a large scale if 
it is to prove useful in limiting future climate 
change. Fossil-fuel use and industry released 
an average of 34 ± 2 billion tonnes of carbon 
dioxide equivalent (GtCO2) per annum (pa) for 
the decade 2007 – 2016, and is projected to 
have released 37 GtCO2 in 20177. This CO2 is 
ultimately derived from geological materials, 
with 94% due to burning of fossil fuels (coal, oil, 
gas) and 6% from limestone during production of 
cement. An additional 5 GtCO2 pa was released 
due to anthropogenic land-use change (primarily 
deforestation) in the decade 2007 to 2016. 
Anthropogenic CO2 becomes incorporated 
in the global carbon cycle. This cycle is 
complex, with a large number of components 
and feedbacks (see Figure 2). It was finely 
balanced in pre-industrial times, and resulting 
atmospheric CO2 concentrations remained 
within 10 parts per million (ppm) of 280 ppm 
for at least two thousand years before 18508. 
In present day, atmospheric concentrations of 
CO2 have reached over 400 ppm. A significant 
body of research has quantified the natural 
carbon cycle and how it has been altered by 
anthropogenic CO2 release9.
Carbon exists in four main environments 
(see Figure 2):
i. As living or dead organic material on land.
ii.  In rock, as limestone or ancient organic 
material, such as coal, oil, gas.
iii. In the ocean.
iv.  In the atmosphere.
Living vegetation on land contains a similar 
amount of carbon as the atmosphere, while 
soils and permafrost together contain about 
five times more carbon, derived from dead 
vegetation. The fluxes – or exchanges of 
carbon gases – between the atmosphere 
and land-vegetation are large, with 
photosynthesis absorbing, or removing, and 
respiration returning about 400 GtCO2 pa 
in the pre-anthropogenic cycle. Since then, 
changing climate and rising atmospheric 
CO2 have increased the net rate of plant 
growth and natural CO2 sinks. The enhanced 
natural land sinks have led to a net removal 
of CO2 from the atmosphere to the land of 11 
± 3 GtCO2 pa in the decade 2007 to 2016, 
which is the equivalent to 33% of all human 
emissions in that time. This enhanced removal 
is partially offset, however, by the 5 ± 3 GtCO2 
pa released by anthropogenic land-use 
change – such as deforestation10. 
In addition to being the source of 
anthropogenic emissions when used as fossil 
fuels, geological materials play a significant 
role in the natural carbon cycle. The mass of 
carbon contained in rock is very large, but the 
rates of exchange with the atmosphere by 
natural means (due to volcanoes, weathering 
and sediment formation) are very much slower 
than for other forms of carbon with a global 
flux of less than 1 GtCO2 pa. Nevertheless, it is 
the balance between degassing – or release 
– of CO2 from volcanoes, and the reaction of 
atmospheric CO2 with silicate rocks during 
weathering, that ultimately stabilises climate on 
geological timescales over millions of years11.  
The ocean contains far more carbon than 
the atmosphere or land reservoirs, with 
about 65 times as much carbon as the pre-
industrial atmosphere, mostly in the form of 
the stable bicarbonate ion (HCO3-). As with 
land vegetation, pre-industrial fluxes between 
the ocean and atmosphere were large but 
balanced, with cold waters absorbing and 
warm waters degassing around 290 GtCO2 pa. 
CHAPTER ONE
18 
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL
Since then, increased atmospheric CO2 has 
led to net uptake of CO2 by the ocean. In 
the decade 2007 to 2016, this imbalance 
was 8.7 ± 2 GtCO2 pa, equivalent to 25% of 
human emissions. This uptake occurs only at 
the ocean surface and the slow overturning 
and mixing of the oceans (c. 1000 years) 
means that most of the deep ocean has not 
yet responded to increased atmospheric 
CO2. In addition to these inorganic CO2 
fluxes, carbon is taken up by photosynthesis 
by marine plants, especially plankton, at the 
ocean surface. As on land, much of this is 
respired to CO2 almost immediately, but some 
of the organic matter settles downward to be 
respired in the deeper ocean. This respired 
carbon is returned to the surface to balance 
biological removal. 
Absorption and re-emission of light and heat 
by gases and clouds in the atmosphere 
causes a natural greenhouse effect that makes 
the surface of Earth about 30°C warmer than it 
would be otherwise. CO2 is the most significant 
driver of this surface warmingb. 
CO2 concentrations have been increased by 
more than 40% by human activities – from 280 
ppm in 1850 to 407 ppm in 2017. Regardless of 
the source of CO2, once in the atmosphere it is 
fairly well mixed so that concentrations are similar 
almost everywhere. Successful application of 
GGR, therefore, would influence atmospheric 
CO2 everywhere (as does mitigation of CO2 
emissions) and could in principle be carried out 
anywhere, a feature that is exploited by most of 
the technologies described in this briefing.
b.  Water has a larger role in the overall greenhouse effect, but the atmospheric water content is controlled by saturation and responds 
to climate change rather than driving it.
Organic 
material on land
 (c.15,000 GtCO2)
A simple depiction of the cycle of CO2, showing the masses of CO2 in each of the four 
environments, and the fluxes between these environments. Blue values and arrows reflect the 
natural pre-anthropogenic system; purple are human perturbations to the carbon cycle (values 
are for the decade 2006 – 2017).
FIGURE 2
Rocks
Limestone and 
ancient organic 
material
Oceans
(c.150,000 GtCO2)
34 GtCO2 pa
9 GtCO2 pa
290 GtCO2 pa
400 GtCO2 pa
11 GtCO2 pa
Atmosphere
2,100 Gt CO2  +900 Gt CO2
Deforestation
5 GtCO2 pa
Source: Values from IPCC and Le Quere et al (2017).
CHAPTER ONE
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL 
19
1.2 Removal and storage
GGR must involve two processes:
i.  Intentional capture and removal of a 
greenhouse gas from the atmosphere.
ii.  Storage of that greenhouse gas in a form 
that prevents it from returning to the 
atmosphere for an extended period of time.
Some GGR approaches combine these 
processes, resulting in direct incorporation of 
the greenhouse gas within the carbon cycle. 
Others do not and produce CO2 that must then 
be stored by a separate activity.
 
There are three broad approaches that can 
be used for removal of greenhouse gas from 
the atmosphere: (1) increasing biological 
uptake, (2) increasing inorganic reactions with 
rocks, or (3) engineering direct capture from 
the atmosphere (Table 1). The key features of 
each of these are as follows:
(1) Enhancing biological uptake is superficially 
attractive but may alter ecosystems in 
undesirable ways. Furthermore, the requirement 
for long-term storage of carbon means that 
significant land area must be dedicated to 
permanent forest, or the carbon captured 
must be stored in some other environment 
or medium. Such storage may be in soils (for 
example biochar), in the deep ocean (ocean 
fertilisation), or in the built environment. 
Alternatively, plant material can be burned to 
produce energy with the resulting CO2 captured 
and stored (BECCS), again requiring viable CO2 
storage infrastructure.
(2) Natural inorganic reactions involved in 
weathering of rocks might be accelerated 
for GGR. This is challenging at large scale 
because these processes are naturally very 
slow. Approaches to accelerate weathering 
involve spreading fine-grained minerals over 
large areas of land, or use of waste products 
from industry. Resulting storage of carbon 
would be in stable carbonate minerals at the 
earth surface, or as stable bicarbonate ions in 
the ocean. 
(3) Engineered removal involves passing large 
volumes of air over a chemical or material 
that adsorbs CO2 (direct air capture or DAC), 
followed by release of the separated and more 
concentrated CO2 and its subsequent storage. 
These approaches therefore also require viable 
CO2 storage infrastructure, unless it can be 
used for example in the production of cement 
for the built environment. In this report capture 
and storage (or use) are covered by the term 
direct air capture with carbon storage (DACCS).
CHAPTER ONE
20 
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL
Ocean store
Soil carbon 
sequestration
Diagram of CO2 capture and storage for each GGR method.
FIGURE 3
Forests
Geological reservoir
Built environment
Nutrients
Biochar
Ocean 
fertilisation
CO2
CO2
CO2
CO2
CO2
Plants
CO2
CO2
Land store
Low-carbon 
concrete
Mineral 
carbonation
Building with 
biomass
BECCS
DACCS
Habitat 
restoration
Enhanced 
weathering
Ocean 
alkalinity
GGR METHODS
STORES
Minerals
CHAPTER ONE
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL 
21
GGR methods categorised by their removal and CO2 storage mechanisms. Methods with integrated 
storage are highlighted in green and those requiring a separate storage mechanism in blue.
TABLE 1
Greenhouse gas removal method
Increased biological 
uptake
Natural inorganic 
reactions
Engineered removal
Land vegetation 
(living)
Afforestation, reforestation 
and forest management; 
Habitat restoration;
Soils and land 
vegetation (dead)
Soil carbon sequestration; 
Biochar
Enhanced terrestrial 
weathering
Geological
BECCS
Mineral carbonation 
at surface
DAC + geological 
storage
DAC + sub-surface 
mineral carbonation
Oceans
Ocean fertilisation
Ocean alkalinity
DAC + deep ocean  
storage
Built 
environment
Building with biomass
Low-carbon concrete
Storage location
CHAPTER ONE
22 
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL
CHAPTER ONE
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL 
23
Chapter two
GGR methods
Left
Marshland in Florida.  
© TerryJ.
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL 
25
2.1 Afforestation, reforestation  
and forest management 
Basic principle of operation
As trees grow they absorb CO2 from the 
atmosphere and store it in living biomass, 
dead organic matter and soils. Afforestation 
and reforestation – sometimes referred to 
collectively as ‘forestation’ – facilitate this 
process of carbon removal by establishing 
or re-establishing forest areas. Once a forest 
reaches maturity the net uptake of CO2 slows, 
though additional gains can be made through 
forest management, such as by optimising 
thinning and improved rotation. Once mature, 
forest products can be harvested and the 
biomass stored in long-lived wood products 
(see 2.7), or used for bioenergy or biochar. 
Consequent forest regrowth then allows 
continuing CO2 removal.
Technology readiness
Afforestation, reforestation and forest 
management are already widely practiced 
throughout the world.
Storage potential and longevity of storage
The potential for carbon removal varies 
depending on assumed land availability, 
location, forest type and management as well 
as economic and biophysical constraints. Most 
estimates typically restrict land-use change 
to safeguard future food, fibre and to some 
extent habitat systems. Potentials for GGR 
from forestation vary from 3 to 18 GtCO2 pa, 
depending mostly on assumed constraints to 
land availability (350 to 1780 Mha)12. By 2100 
a maximum removal of 12 GtCO2 pa has been 
estimated, or just 4 GtCO2 pa with a more 
conservative estimate13. 
Potentials for improved forest management 
alone are estimated at 1 to 2 GtCO2 pa 
by 203014. 
It takes forests approximately 10 years to ramp-
up to the maximum sequestration rate and 
depending on the species, the trees will reach 
maturity after around 20 to 100 years, then 
saturating in terms of CO2 removal, after which 
they no longer result in net GGR. Carbon can be 
stored in forests indefinitely, but the permanence 
of this storage could be reduced by resumption 
of deforestation, or by natural disturbances that 
may be further affected by climate change – for 
example, fire, disease or drought. 
Carbon dioxide
CHAPTER TWO
26 
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL
Natural resources required
The main resource limitation is land area 
as forestry competes with other social and 
economic land uses. Significant amounts of land 
are required to achieve substantial CO2 capture, 
with land intensity of forestation estimated at 
around 0.1 ha per tCO2 pa over 100 years15. The 
energy requirement for these GGR methods is 
relatively low. For example, a life cycle study of 
forestation on reclaimed mining land showed 
emissions of 5.7 tCO2 per ha over a 34 year span, 
2% of the cumulative 334 tCO2 sequestered over 
that period16,17. Forests are not typically irrigated 
so water requirements are also often low. 
Environmental benefits and challenges 
The environmental impacts of afforestation 
and reforestation depend on many factors, 
including planting, thinning and other 
management activities. A particularly 
significant issue is the use of the land that is 
being replaced. For example, replacing natural 
forests or other natural ecosystems with faster 
growing or higher biomass tree plantations 
could reduce biodiversity. On the other 
hand, replacing cropland or degraded land 
with forests could enhance biodiversity and 
have other positive environmental impacts, 
such as improved soil quality and reduced 
flooding, erosion and eutrophicationc. Forest 
management activities could lead to various 
environmental impacts on a life cycle basis, 
from planting through to harvest and use. 
These include the impacts from the use of 
fuels, fertilisers and pesticides, and emissions 
of volatile organic compounds.
 
Large-scale forestation can directly affect 
temperature and precipitation locally, 
regionally, and in faraway places through 
physical changes that may enhance or mitigate 
CO2-induced climate change. The choice 
of location is important, as planting forests 
in snow-covered boreal areas can reduce 
albedod and, therefore, enhance local or 
regional-scale warming18. Tropical forests, on 
the other hand, result in local cooling and 
rainfall recycling and act as air and water filters. 
Scalability and engineering challenges 
A key challenge for scale-up is in the 
identification of suitable locations for 
implementation. Further to this, even where 
suitable land has been identified, land owners 
may not be easily convinced to implement tree 
planting if this means replacing another more 
immediate income-generating activity. 
Generally, projects deliver the greatest benefits 
if they are implemented on degraded land or 
land that was previously forested and for which 
no other economic or social activity has been 
planned. In particular, competition for land with 
agriculture could potentially infringe on food 
security, although this could be addressed 
through agroforestry systems that can combine 
tree planting with agricultural production, 
maximising efficiency and other co-benefits.
Image
© Empato.
c.  Eutrophication is the over enrichment of a body of water with minerals and nutrients which causes excessive growth of plants and algae.
d. Albedo refers to the reflectiveness of the land surface.
CHAPTER TWO
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL 
27
While initial costs of establishing plantations 
can be high, the costs of regeneration and 
management are low. There is the potential to 
sequester 1.2 GtCO2 for under $30 per tCO2 
and 0.4 GtCO2 pa at less than $3 per tCO2
19. 
Future cost estimates for afforestation and 
reforestation range from $15 to $30 per tCO2 
for the year 210020. 
Risks to implementation
The main risks to deployment of new forest 
are the availability of land, competition with 
other land uses, and the comparatively long 
time from planting to maturity. The latter point 
is particularly pertinent to land owners who 
would require certainty around longevity and 
security of payments to bridge the time until 
trees are able to be used for sustainable 
timber products. Issues around impermanence, 
including natural disturbances (for example, 
forest fires) that may increase in frequency due 
to climate change, may present a further risk.
Monitoring and evaluation
The inclusion of forestry in greenhouse gas 
inventories has been challenging due to the 
complexities of monitoring, reporting and 
verifying greenhouse gas fluxes in the land 
sector. This is because the land is simultaneously 
a source and sink of CO2, due to a combination 
of both natural and anthropogenic factors. 
Human driven ‘direct’ changes in land cover 
and management happen at the same time 
as the ‘indirect’ effects of climate change on 
plant growth and decomposition and as the 
effects of natural disturbances such as fires 
and disease. There is no single best method 
to disentangle these effects and a range of 
approaches are used by those modelling 
global pathways21. These differences need 
to be better understood to ensure credibility 
and transparency under the Paris Agreement’s 
global stocktake, which will assess the global 
progress to meeting the 2°C target.
Social factors 
The UK public generally have a positive 
attitude towards forests, but may be opposed 
to replacing natural forests with plantations of 
non-native species. In developing countries 
there are major socio-economic issues around 
land-tenure, equity and the multitude of 
existing uses of ecosystems22,23. In addition, 
land owners and farmers usually need to 
generate an income from their land and may 
therefore prefer to put it to a more productive 
use than tree planting without exploitation. 
Policy factors 
Many countries have already included 
forestation or forest management in their 
Nationally Determined Contributions under 
the Paris Agreement.  Forests and avoided 
deforestation are expected to meet a quarter 
of the total pledged mitigation, demonstrating 
the established nature of this GGR method. 
Examples include Brazil (0% illegal 
deforestation by 2030 in Amazonia), Mexico 
(0% deforestation, afforestation for wetland 
protection), China (increase forest stock volume 
by 4.5 billion m3), and India (enhancement of 
carbon sequestration annually by about 100 
MtCO2). This international effort is also reflected 
in the Bonn challenge, which aims to restore 
350 Mha of deforested and degraded land 
by 2030. Since 2011, 47 national commitments 
have been made, reaching 160 Mha of land 
restored or planned for restoration24.
In the UK, the Forestry Commission is 
implementing the Woodland Carbon Code, 
which accounts for CO2 sequestration by 
forestry projects. As of September 2017, 
validated forestry projects covering an area 
of 5000 hectares in the UK were projected 
to achieve sequestration levels of about 2.5 
MtCO2 over their lifetime25.
CHAPTER TWO
28 
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL
2.2 Wetland, peatland and 
coastal habitat restoration
Basic principle of operation
Wetland, peatland and coastal habitat 
restoration rely on the restoration or 
construction of high-carbon-density 
ecosystems as a mechanism of sequestering 
CO2 from the atmosphere. Examples of such 
ecosystems, as listed by the Intergovernmental 
Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), include 
“inland organic soils and wetlands on mineral 
soils, coastal wetlands (such as mangrove 
forests, tidal marshes and seagrass meadows), 
and constructed wetlands for wastewater 
treatment”26. These solutions are henceforth 
referred to collectively as wetlands. Peatlands 
and coastal wetlands have been estimated 
to store 44% to 71% of the world’s terrestrial 
biological carbon27. While the carbon stocks 
in peatlands and coastal wetlands are 
now vulnerable to release as a result of 
degradation, drainage and exploitation28, 
these ecosystems also have significant future 
carbon sequestration capacity29. Restoration 
of wetlands and peatlands usually centres 
on rewetting the ecosystems by blocking 
drainage, among accompanying measures. 
Technology readiness
Since wetlands and peatlands have been 
managed by humans for many years, there 
is a high level of knowledge and readiness 
to implement restoration measures. Current 
implementation of wetland restoration 
techniques has resulted in significant learning 
over the past decade, though a number of 
questions remain on maximum feasible scale, 
cost, land-use trade-offs, and permanence in 
the face of climate change.
Storage potential and longevity of storage
Restoring habitats often acts to both actively 
sequester new carbon and prevent further loss 
through degradation. Although only the former 
is GGR, both are clearly of value. Assessments 
of long-term global GGR potential from 
wetland restoration range from 0.4 to 18 tCO2 
per ha pa. In addition to this sequestration, 
restoration can also reduce emissions from 
peatlands and coastal wetlands, with a global 
impact on the order of 1 GtCO2 pa by 203030.
The UK has 0.45 Mha of salt marsh, 0.8 Mha 
of freshwater wetland and 9% to 15% of 
Europe’s peatland area, 2.7 Mha, of which 
80% is considered to be in poor condition, 
thus providing restoration opportunities31. 
Carbon dioxide
CHAPTER TWO
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL 
29
As for forestation, restored habitat also faces 
the risk of impermanence if disturbed by 
human activity or natural disasters. Sea-level 
rise may impact the permanence of salt-
marsh storage, unless this habitat is allowed 
to migrate landward as levels rise. As with 
other habitats, wetlands will eventually reach 
a carbon equilibrium, although over a longer 
period of time than soil.
Natural resources required
Compared to forests and other terrestrial 
ecosystems, the carbon density and slow 
biomass decomposition rate of wetland 
ecosystems can result in lower land 
requirements for similar levels of GGR32. 
Ecosystem restoration has negligible energy 
requirements and variable water requirements. 
Environmental benefits and challenges
Wetland restoration has the potential to 
contribute to other global sustainability 
goals, such as improved water quality, flood 
protection, ecosystem restoration, biodiversity 
preservation, and job creation. Restoring 
habitats can provide additional environmental 
benefits by providing protection from natural 
disasters; for example, salt marshes acting 
as flood defences or mangroves providing 
protection from tropical storms33. However, 
depending on the previous land use of 
restored land, wetland restoration could 
either improve or diminish the heat-reflecting 
capabilities of those areas, possibly providing 
an additional benefit or detriment for climate-
change mitigation. This is particularly true 
for wetlands that have surface vegetation 
of mosses, grasses, and shrubs, rather than 
forested wetlands like mangroves34. 
Scalability and engineering challenges
Compared to afforestation and reforestation, 
much less is known about wetlands. Additional 
research around verification of carbon storage, 
life cycle accounting, cost-effective monitoring 
of fluxes, and indirect land-use change is 
needed to ensure that wetland restoration can 
be an effective GGR strategy35. 
Direct CO2 removal costs for peatland restoration 
are in the range $10 to $100 per tCO2
36 
suggesting potential low-cost options for projects 
on wetlands. Beyond carbon sequestration, 
wetlands can also generate valuable, potentially 
monetisable ecosystem services, such as water 
provision, flood management, soil and water 
quality and, in some places, cultural services, like 
tourism in natural areas. These could be higher 
than those of other terrestrial ecosystems, such 
as forests37,38. Estimates of the average annual 
value of wetlands, reflecting these services, 
range from $3000 to $14,800 per ha pa39,40.
Roughly one-third of global wetland ecosystems 
had been lost by 200941, suggesting a set of 
locations and volumes where restoration work 
can begin. However, while some sites may 
be suitable for early remediation, others have 
been converted to ports, industrial sites, and 
other high-value capital assets, which limits 
the extent to which they can be used for CO2 
removal. For these high-value uses, the current 
barriers to implementation are largely financial 
as the direct economic value of co-benefits 
that accompany restoration (for example, 
biodiversity, water remediation, recreation) are 
often not high enough. Therefore, a change 
in land-management practices would need to 
be predicated on incentives for a long-term 
conversion and maintenance of the wetland 
ecosystem.  Wetlands and other habitats will 
be impacted by future climate change, not 
least sea-level rise. Their maintenance, and 
potential spread inland, would then need to 
adapt accordingly.
CHAPTER TWO
30 
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL
Risks to implementation
Production of non-CO2 greenhouse gases 
represents a substantial risk. Although wetlands 
represent a significant sink for CO2, they have 
also historically been a significant source 
of methane, with estimates ranging from 
20% to 25% of global emissions42. Restoring 
some wetlands could induce a short-term net 
warming effect, due to increased emissions of 
methane and N2O. Dedicated and sustained 
research is needed to resolve or reduce these 
uncertainties. Further, future climate change or 
management practices could threaten the sink 
capacity, with some peatlands being vulnerable 
to changes in temperature and precipitation as 
well as renewed drainage43.
A further risk is that, in some cases, restoration 
projects can fail. Competition for land with 
food and energy generation could lead to the 
displacement of these activities leading to 
indirect land-use change emissions44.
Monitoring and evaluation
Monitoring is required to determine the 
longevity of storage created by restoration. 
Monitoring changes in carbon sequestration in 
wetlands is more difficult than in soils, because 
the organic layers are often deep and carbon 
stocks are large, meaning that small changes 
are measured against a large background. 
However, since wetlands are often restored 
by rewetting, monitoring the water table as an 
indicator of the carbon sequestering practice is 
straightforward and could be remotely sensed. 
Similarly, vegetation is being monitored as 
a proxy of the carbon sequestration status 
of peatlands45. 
Social factors
In most cases, restoration of degraded 
wetlands is likely to attract public support 
due to conservation benefits. However, there 
may be concern regarding the replacement 
of ‘hard’ flood defences with floodable 
wetlands. There will also be opportunity costs, 
particularly where the degraded wetland is 
being used for food production, as in the 
cultivated boreal peats in Scandinavia, tropical 
peatlands in South East Asia, or mangrove 
swamps used for seafood production. 
Removal of these activities could displace food 
production and threaten livelihoods.
Policy factors 
International and national conservation and 
biodiversity policies are likely to enhance 
implementation of wetland restoration. 
However, as economic growth and food 
security policies incentivise wetland drainage 
and destruction (particularly in poor countries 
with food security issues), extra efforts will be 
required in these instances. 
Image
Lochan na h-Achlaise.
© JoeDunckley.
CHAPTER TWO
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL 
31
2.3 Soil carbon sequestration 
Basic principle of operation
Soil carbon sequestration is the process 
of removing CO2 from the atmosphere by 
changing land management practices in such 
a way as to increase the carbon content of soil. 
The level of carbon in the soil is determined by 
a balance of carbon inputs (for example, from 
litter, residues, roots, or manure) and carbon 
losses (mostly through respiration, increased 
by soil disturbance). Therefore, practices 
that either increase inputs or reduce losses 
can promote soil carbon sequestration. A 
large number of land management practices 
are used to increase total soil carbon on a 
decadal timescale46,47. 
For croplands these include:
•  Crop management: improved varieties 
and their rotation, use of ‘cover crops’, 
perennial cropping systems, agricultural 
biotechnology.
•  Nutrient management: optimised fertiliser 
type, application rate, timing, precision 
application.
•  Reduced tillage intensity and residue 
retention.
•  Improved water management: including 
drainage of waterlogged mineral soils. 
For grasslands, measures includes: 
•  Vegetation management: improved grass 
varieties, deep rooting grasses, increased 
productivity, and nutrient management.
•  Animal management: stocking density, 
improved grazing management, improved 
animal feed production.
• Fire management.
The specific practices applicable to an 
individual land area will depend on a number 
of factors, including region, use, maturity and 
resource availability.
Carbon dioxide
CHAPTER TWO
32 
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL
Technology readiness
Soil carbon sequestration is ready for 
implementation and many of the practices are 
already used in some places. The agricultural 
and land-management practices required are 
generally well known by farmers and land 
managers and mostly do not require additional 
machinery or infrastructure48.
Storage potential and longevity of storage
Rates for soil carbon sequestration vary 
considerably, depending on land-management 
approaches, soil type, and climate region49. 
When scaled globally, the technical potential for 
soil carbon sequestration is estimated between 
1.1 and 11.4 GtCO2 pa, with more conservative 
estimates suggesting an upper limit of 6.9 GtCO2 
pa50,51,52,53,54. Estimates for the UK potential for soil 
carbon sequestration are 1 to 31 MtCO2 pa55. 
However, these rates of carbon sequestration 
will not be sustainable indefinitely, with 
saturation expected after as little as a decade 
or two as soils approach a new, higher, 
equilibrium carbon concentration. After that 
point, additional sequestration decreases to 
zero. Moreover, sequestration is reversible, 
and practices need to be maintained 
indefinitely, incurring yearly costs. The length 
of time to reach saturation depends on the 
sequestration methodology, soil type and 
climate zone (slower in colder regions)56. The 
IPCC use a default saturation time of 20 years.
Natural resources required 
Soil carbon sequestration approaches can be 
applied to all managed land without changing 
its current use57. It is typically considered to 
require no additional energy overall. Some 
practices, such as reduced or zero tillage, may 
save energy by reducing the energy input to 
farm operations while others, such as pumping 
irrigation water, may incur an energy cost. 
However, activities such as improved rotations 
or residue management are close to current 
practice and so will require little change to 
energy requirements. Except for processes 
involving increased irrigation, there is no 
significant use of water58.
Environmental benefits and challenges
Increasing soil organic carbon content confers a 
number of environmental, economic and social 
co-benefits, contributing to a number of the UN 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). These 
can include improved soil fertility, workability, 
Image
Tractors with liquid  
manure spreader.  
© Bestgreenscreen.
CHAPTER TWO
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL 
33
increased crop yield and yield stability, 
improved water holding capacity and improved 
structure, depending on the practices used59,60. 
Additionally, soil carbon sequestration has no 
impact on albedo61.
 
However, increasing soil organic matter through 
carbon sequestration may also increase other 
greenhouse gas emissions. While soil carbon 
sequestration is expected to have only small or 
negligible impact on soil methane emissions62, it 
does increase organic nitrogen levels in the soil. 
Increased soil nitrogen could be mineralised to 
become a substrate for N2O production, though 
the effect is difficult to quantify63. 
Scalability and engineering challenges
Since soils have been managed for millennia, 
knowledge of practices is widespread and 
readiness for adoption is high. Current barriers 
to implementation include lack of knowledge 
of the benefits among farmers and land 
managers, resistance to change, and lack of 
policy or financial incentives to encourage 
practices leading to soil carbon sequestration. 
Costs of implementation on croplands and 
grazing lands range from a saving of $12 per 
tCO2 to a cost of $3, suggesting revenues and 
cost savings from some of these practices. 
GGR through soil carbon sequestration at 
a rate of 2.6 GtCO2 pa globally would save 
$7.7 billion, comprising savings of $16.9 billion 
and costs of $9.2 billion before saturation64.
For the UK specifically, implementation 
to remove 1 to 31 MtCO2 pa could save 
$0.04 billion or could incur a cost of up 
to $0.34 billion65.
Assuming unit costs are limited to between 
$5 and $25 per tCO2, global carbon 
emission mitigation potentials of soil carbon 
sequestration range between 1.5 and 2.6 
GtCO2 pa for a period of 10 to 20 years66,67. 
Risks to implementation
The main risk for soil carbon sequestration is 
the reversibility of carbon storage, which could 
be particularly acute once the sink is saturated.
Monitoring and evaluation
Monitoring, reporting and verification can be 
difficult because the changes in soil carbon 
stocks are small relative to the large background 
level. While it is challenging to measure changes 
in soil carbon, practices that lead to soil carbon 
sequestration can be monitored at the activity 
level. If coupled with field measurements, 
well-calibrated models could assist in the 
monitoring and evaluation process68.
Social factors
There are likely to be few public perception 
barriers to soil carbon sequestration since it 
entails ‘good practice’ soil management and 
provides a range of economic, societal and 
environmental co-benefits69. 
Policy factors 
Concerns about sink saturation and 
reversibility, and perceived difficulties and 
costs of monitoring, reporting and verification, 
have hindered policy action in the past. 
However, a large number of non-climate 
policies globally have promoted soil carbon 
sequestration for other purposes, largely to 
promote soil health and quality, to prevent 
degradation and to improve soil fertility and 
productivity70,71,72. Soil carbon sequestration 
can also benefit from recent international 
initiatives, such as the ‘4 per 1000 Initiative: 
Soils for Food Security and Climate’. This has 
begun to promote soil carbon sequestration 
as a GGR option to contribute toward the 
ambitious climate change targets in the 
Paris Agreement73. 
CHAPTER TWO
34 
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL
2.4 Biochar
Basic principle of operation
Biochar is produced by thermal decomposition 
of biomass in the absence of oxygen – known 
as pyrolysis – into a stable, long lived product 
like charcoal. Biochar stores original biomass 
carbon in a form that is relatively resistant to 
decomposition74 and that can stabilise organic 
matter added to soil75. In this manner carbon 
can be stored in the soil for an extended 
period, while also providing a range of soil 
fertility and soil quality co-benefits. Examples 
include improved water and nutrient retention, 
and higher crop yields (though this effect may 
be limited to the tropics76). 
Technology readiness
Biochar is an established GGR method, but it 
is not yet widely applied, in part due to costs 
and the limited availability of pyrolysis facilities. 
However, readiness for implementation at 
large scale is anticipated within a decade77.
Storage potential and longevity of storage
It is estimated that, on a life cycle basis, 
biochar produced from different crops can 
remove between 2.1 to 4.8 tCO2 per tonne 
of biochar78,79. This takes into account crop 
cultivation, biochar production by pyrolysis, 
carbon sequestration by biochar used as a 
soil improver and system credits for electricity 
generation by pyrolysis. 
While biochar can be applied at high per-
area application rates, the overall benefits 
are likely to be higher if applied at low rates, 
after enhancement through co-composting or 
nutrient addition80. Biochar is considered to be 
more stable than soil organic matter, so should 
persist longer. However, there are uncertainties 
associated with decomposition rates of the 
various types of biochar depending upon the 
pyrolysis feedstock and temperature. The 
efficacy and potential for GGR through biochar 
is still debated, but has been estimated globally 
at between 1.8 and 4.8 GtCO2 pa81,82. For the 
UK, this is limited by domestic biomass resource 
resulting in an estimated potential for biochar 
of 6 to 41 MtCO2 pa83. 
Pyrolysis
Carbon dioxide
CHAPTER TWO
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL 
35
In addition to its use as a soil improver, biochar 
can be utilised as activated carbon in waste 
treatment processes or as a fuel. However, 
the storage times are much shorter and may 
result in net greenhouse gas emission on a 
life cycle basis. 
Natural resources required 
Biochar requires land firstly to grow the biomass 
feedstock and secondly for spreading. Biomass 
cultivation for biochar does lead to land 
competition issues, however, as biochar can be 
applied alongside other activities spreading does 
not. Biochar can also be produced from waste 
biomass, eliminating the need for additional 
land, and giving value to waste materials, 
although again there is competition for use 
of this waste from various GGR methods.
Given that biochar is less easily decomposed 
than soil organic matter, and that application rates 
to soil can be as high as 30 to 60 t per ha, GGR 
per ha can be much greater than for soil carbon 
sequestration, giving land requirements for 
biochar of <1 ha per tCO2. Application rates of 50 
t biochar per ha and removal of 2.6 (constrained) 
and 4.8 (maximum theoretical) GtCO2 pa would 
lead to land footprints for biochar spreading 
of 14 and 26 Mha, respectively84. At this rate, 
biochar could be applied to current land without 
changing its use. 
Models for feedstock to produce biochar vary, 
but a biochar sequestration potential of 2.6 
GtCO2 pa could include 1.1 GtCO2 pa sequestered 
by dedicated biomass crops. These dedicated 
crops would require 40 to 260 Mha, of which half 
could be produced on abandoned, degraded 
cropland that is not used for other purposes85,e.
Making biochar produces energy in the 
pyrolysis process, which could be used as 
heat or to produce electricity. Assuming energy 
contents of the feedstock of 16.4 to 35.3 MJ 
per kg86, and 10% and 20% energy cost and 
energy loss in pyrolysis plants, respectively87, 
the energy- generation potential of biochar 
is estimated at 5 to 14 GJ per tCO2 removed. 
Globally, biochar removing 2.6 GtCO2 pa could 
produce 14 to 35 EJ pa net energy. At maximum 
theoretical removal of 4.8 GtCO2 pa, biochar 
could produce up to 65 EJ pa energy.
Image
Biochar. Credit: Oregon 
Department of Forestry.
creativecommons.org/
licenses/by/2.0
e. If yields were lower on this degraded land than predicted, the area required would increase proportionally.
CHAPTER TWO
36 
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL
Water is not used in quantity in the production 
of biochar (with the exception of biochar made 
from hydrothermal carbonization88). It is widely 
accepted that adding biochar to soil improves 
its water-holding capacity, though the scale of 
this impact is difficult to quantify89,90. However, 
water is used (with chemicals) to scrub the 
polluting gases from the pyrolysis process and 
this also generates wastewater that must be 
treated, in turn requiring additional energy.
Environmental benefits and challenges
Biochar applied to soils can have soil fertility 
and soil quality benefits. However, as biochar 
material tends to be dark and can be applied in 
large quantities, it can darken the soil surface. 
Biochar application at 30 to 60 tonnes per ha 
to soil has been found to decrease surface 
reflectivity over the crop season by up to 40% 
relative to controls, which in turn increases 
soil temperature91. These albedo reductions, 
and related warming of the atmosphere, may 
reduce the beneficial effect on climate change 
of CO2 sequestered by biochar92. 
Biochar also has quantifiable impacts on non-
CO2 greenhouse gas emissions. Studies on 
rice paddy soils show significant increases 
in methane and decreases in N2O emissions 
when biochar is added93. Other studies in 
pasture systems show the opposite effect 
(increased N2O and decreased methane94) 
and others no effect95. Where biochar is 
produced from biomass that might otherwise 
have naturally decayed, emissions of methane 
and N2O are avoided, contributing to the 
greenhouse gas emission reduction delivered 
by biochar96. Biochar can also stabilise heavy 
metals and stop them entering food chains97. 
The effects of biochar on non-agricultural 
plant species are not yet fully understood98.
Because biochar can be burned to generate 
energy, it could partially substitute for fossil fuels 
in energy generation. However, using biochar 
as fuel releases carbon back to the atmosphere 
and this must be taken into account when 
estimating the removal potential. Additionally, 
depending on the processes used, life cycle 
emissions from the biochar system can be 
greater than those removed. For example, a 
study considering switchgrass as a feedstock 
for the production of biochar showed that the 
net emissions could be as high as 0.12 tCO2 per 
tonne of biochar99. Furthermore, using biochar 
for other applications, such as activated carbon, 
can also increase the net emissions to up to 
11 tCO2 per tonne of biochar100.
Scalability and engineering challenges
The quantity of biomass available for biochar 
production is a key factor limiting the global 
potential for this GGR method. Additional 
pyrolysis facilities will also be required for 
large-scale implementation with associated 
capital expenditure and operational costs. 
Since biomass can also be used as a fuel, its 
conversion to biochar and burial forgoes some 
of the potential energy available. The practice 
of storing and spreading the biochar may also 
prove challenging.
Predicted costs for biochar range between 
$18 and $166 per tCO2
101. Assuming UK 
conditions (with different assumptions), 
estimates for costs of production to application 
of biochar vary from $230 profit to $330 cost 
per tCO2
102. Economic benefits from biochar 
application could offset some of the costs103, 
but the benefits differ by region. 
CHAPTER TWO
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL 
37
Risks to implementation
Although the risks of reversibility and difficulty 
of monitoring are lower than for soil carbon 
sequestration, some barriers remain, such 
as limited knowledge of practice or policy 
support. Other risks include increased 
environmental pollution from pyrolysis facilities 
and generation of liquid and solid waste, 
although if chemicals were extracted from the 
waste they may have secondary uses. 
Monitoring and evaluation
Monitoring, reporting and verification can be 
difficult since the changes in soil carbon stocks 
are small relative to the large background 
level. While it is challenging to measure 
changes in soil carbon directly, the practices 
themselves can be monitored and, if coupled 
with field measurements, well-calibrated 
models could also assist104,105.
Social factors 
The production of biochar requires biomass 
feedstock (unless waste is used), so is likely to 
share the negative perceptions associated with 
the bioenergy part of BECCS. Specifically, if 
biomass is sourced from forests, concerns may 
centre on woodland loss or degradation and, 
if sourced from dedicated energy crops, on 
competition for land used for growing food106.
Further concerns include negative public 
perception of pyrolysis facilities, which for many 
represent ‘incineration in disguise’ and are 
therefore, likely to be denied public ‘licence to 
operate’. This is a particularly sensitive issue in 
the UK, but it may be less so elsewhere where 
incineration is used more commonly. 
Policy factors 
There is a lack of economic and policy 
incentives and guaranteed markets for biomass 
or biochar, which has limited the growth of 
dedicated biomass in the UK107. Some of the 
policy barriers are similar to those for the 
bioenergy component of BECCS.
Within the UK, the Environment Agency has 
issued guidance on low risk waste activities 
that allows the spreading of up to 1 tonne per 
ha pa of biochar from specific source materials 
on land without the need for an environmental 
permit. However, this is much lower than 
the suggested application rate of 50 tonnes 
per hectare.
CHAPTER TWO
38 
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL
2.5 Bioenergy with carbon 
capture and storage
Basic principle of operation
BECCS is the combination of two mitigation 
options: biomass combustion to generate 
energy –typically in the form of power, but 
potentially also as heat or liquid fuel – and 
carbon capture and storage (CCS). Biomass 
includes both dedicated energy crops and 
waste, such as those from forestry, agricultural 
and municipal sources. These can be used as 
the single fuel source for power generation 
(dedicated use) or in combination with other 
conventional fossil fuels, such as coal and 
gas (co-fired generation). 
CCS refers to the suite of technologies that: 
•  capture CO2 from the exhausts of power 
stations or other industrial sources 
• handle and transport CO2; and
•  store the CO2 (for example by injection 
in deep geological formations).
The combination of bioenergy and CCS 
achieves GGR by taking atmospheric CO2 
temporarily locked in plants and storing it 
permanently in geological formations, while 
using the biomass to generate electricity. 
Currently, the power is perceived as the main 
product and the carbon removed and stored 
as a by-product, although this perception 
may be reversed in the long run.
A number of related technologies also exist 
whereby the output of BECCS plants is either 
heat or an alternative energy carrier, such as 
bio-hydrogen or other liquid or gaseous fuels. 
In the case of alternative energy carriers, 
a thorough life cycle analysis, including 
emissions from fuel combustion, would be 
required to determine if a net removal of 
greenhouse gases is achieved.
Carbon dioxide
Mineral carbonation
Geological reservoir
Low-carbon concrete
Carbon dioxide
CHAPTER TWO
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL 
39
Technology readiness
Bioenergy from biomass based power plants 
is a mature technology, while CCS is largely 
at the demonstration stage with examples 
including the Boundary Dam project in 
Canada and Petra Nova in Texas108. A number 
of different BECCS configurations have been 
reviewed and are currently at the stage 
of being demonstrated in an operational 
environment. Some have a low level of 
technology readiness, while there is higher 
maturity for established technologies, such 
as co-firing with amine scrubbing of CO2 
and combustion with pure oxygen.
Storage potential and longevity for storage
BECCS has been estimated by some to have 
a global CO2 removal potential of c.10 GtCO2 
pa (mean of IPCC WGIII AR5 scenarios109), and 
20 to 70 MtCO2 pa in the UK110. The storage 
potential and longevity for BECCS are aligned 
with that of CCS. Global estimates of CCS 
potential indicate a storage capacity of the 
order of 900 GtCO2, which would not limit 
application of BECCS111. For the UK, a verified 
total storage potential of 1 GtCO2 offshore 
has been estimated112. There is a much larger 
probable UK storage potential (including saline 
aquifers), possibly of the order of 20 GtCO2
113.
Natural resources required 
Depending on the feedstock used, the land and 
water requirements can be significant, ranging 
from 0.03 to 0.06 ha per tCO2 removed for 
land, and 60 m3 per tCO2 of water. There may 
be additional water requirements for the CCS 
process114. Implemented effectively, BECCS is 
a net energy generator, producing 0.8 to 10 GJ 
per tCO2 removed from energy crops115. 
Environmental benefits and challenges
Biomass production, combustion, capture, 
and storage involve different environmental 
challenges. For example, land-use change 
associated with growth of dedicated energy 
crops, as well as the process of cultivation 
and harvest, will have an impact on the local 
environment. At this stage, fresh water and 
nutrient use will be required and there may 
be impacts on albedo116. These challenges are 
similar to those of any other biomass-based 
mitigation measures and depend on the nature 
of the feedstock. The production of dedicated 
crops presents a potential conflict with food 
and feed production and with the SDGs. In 
addition, the widespread implementation of 
BECCS is also expected to have a significant 
impact on the global nitrogen cycle. 
The capture technologies used in CCS are 
expected to mitigate some air-quality issues 
from combustion, especially sulphur dioxide 
emissions. However, amine-based CCS may 
need additional mitigation to avoid emissions 
of degradation products (for example, 
nitramines and nitrosamines). Control of 
particulates and NOx emissions from the 
combustion stage will also be required.
Further environmental impacts will be 
generated across the life cycle of BECCS, 
including during feedstock cultivation, 
processing and collection as well as for CCS 
activities. They have yet to be quantified, as 
most life cycle assessment studies have so 
far focused on the CO2 removal potential of 
BECCS. While most such studies show overall 
net removal117,118, one study has demonstrated 
that BECCS can also result in net carbon 
emission, depending on management 
strategies and land-use change119.
CHAPTER TWO
40 
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL
Scalability and engineering 
The implementation of BECCS faces two 
scalability issues – ramp-up of biomass 
production that involves overcoming land 
limitations (acknowledging that imports 
could fill the gap for an individual nation) 
and ramp-up of CCS infrastructure. Previous 
analysis indicates that, in the UK specifically, 
the annual increase of capacity during the 
first decade of ramp-up would be between 
2 and 8 MtCO2 pa120. These values are based 
on earlier estimates of CCS deployment but, 
from a technical and supply chain point of 
view, developments at these rates should 
be possible.
Engineering challenges include improving 
energy efficiency relative to conventional 
power generation and CCS. Typical electrical 
efficiencies of BECCS plants are estimated 
at 22% to 33%121 but with potential to improve 
to around 38%122. This contrasts with typical 
current figures of 35% to 41% (coal-fired 
power plant), 49% to 61% (combined-cycle 
gas turbines). While these efficiencies would 
reduce to 33% to 36% and 47% to 50%, 
respectively, with the addition of CCS, gas 
power is still significantly higher than the 
potential BECCS efficiency. 
Cost estimates for BECCS are in the range 
$140 to $270 per tCO2 captured and are highly 
sensitive to the assumptions on biomass 
cost, electricity sales price, plant lifetime and 
efficiency123. However, these estimates do not 
include the long-term monitoring cost.
Risks to implementation
Given the widespread deployment of 
bio-based power generation and the 
demonstration of CCS124, the main risks are 
those associated with the less-mature CCS 
side of the system. These include risks 
associated with impurities in flue gas from 
biomass burning, with the transport of CO2 at 
high pressure (demonstrated safely in several 
pipelines in the USA), with integrity of CO2 
storage. Other risks include direct and indirect 
land-use change associated with energy crops 
and related competition with food production.
Monitoring and evaluation
There are two key elements in the BECCS 
system that would require effective 
monitoring: environmental impacts from 
feedstock production, including greenhouse 
gas emissions, and the integrity of CO2 
storage. The former could be dealt with 
using certification schemes similar to those 
associated with other bio-based products, like 
forestry products, bioenergy, or palm oil, while 
the latter forms part of the core activities of 
CCS, usually known as ‘measuring, monitoring 
and evaluation’125. 
Furthermore, if feedstock crosses national 
boundaries and is then used for BECCS, 
standards for crediting the national emissions 
inventories would have to be established. 
IPCC guidance is available126 for this 
purpose and versions have been adopted 
in some countries.
CHAPTER TWO
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL 
41
Social factors 
As BECCS feedstocks are lignocellulosic 
(materials like wood, Miscanthus, switchgrass 
and agricultural residues), they are less likely 
to compete with food supply. However, there 
are still issues associated with land-use 
change, particularly if energy crops are grown 
on agricultural land or existing woodland is 
used for biomass supply. 
Bioenergy feedstock is traded globally, 
meaning that monitoring and reporting of 
sources and imports is crucial to ensure 
social and environmental sustainability of the 
resource. In many countries, bioenergy has 
created serious socio-economic problems 
regarding land tenure and loss of ecosystem 
services, and BECCS could experience 
similar problems especially in developing 
countries and areas inhabited by indigenous 
communities. These issues could also 
generate opposition to BECCS in the UK, for 
instance if people perceive that vulnerable 
communities are being treated unfairly, or if 
BECCS is creating problems for biodiversity.
Disruption brought about by the planning 
and construction of large scale infrastructure 
for CO2 transportation may create public 
opposition, particularly where the CCS plants 
are located along the shoreline. Perceptions 
may also vary depending on whether storage 
is on- or off-shore. 
Policy factors 
Bioenergy is already supported in many 
national policy frameworks. However, the 
balance of this support with food production 
and other land use forms might create 
pressure at high levels of deployment. CCS 
has received variable levels of policy support 
over recent decades and, given the significant 
investments required, would likely need 
political support for delivery.
Image
Bioenergy crop ripe for 
harvest. © Jon McCalmont.
CHAPTER TWO
42 
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL
2.6 Ocean fertilisation
Basic principle of operation  
Photosynthesis in the ocean removes around 
40 GtCO2 pa from the surface ocean and 
transports it downward to the deep ocean 
– a process termed ‘the biological pump’127. 
In the natural system, this downward flow is 
approximately balanced by return of respired 
carbon from the deep ocean by vertical 
mixing and upwelling. The abundance of 
photosynthesizing life, like plankton, in the 
surface ocean, and so the magnitude of the 
biological pump, is limited by the supply 
of either micronutrients, such as iron, or 
macronutrients (nitrates and phosphates).
The principle of ocean fertilisation is to 
achieve GGR by adding additional nutrients to 
increase the magnitude of the biological pump, 
therefore removing carbon from the surface 
and moving it into the deep ocean, which in 
turn leads to additional ocean uptake of CO2 
from the atmosphere to compensate.
Technology readiness
Both nitrate/phosphate and iron fertilisation 
are currently technically feasible, but both 
face considerable challenges. Scientific 
experiments to fertilise patches of ocean with 
iron have been carried out in several areas 
with variable results128. While plankton blooms 
can clearly be stimulated by fertilisation, the 
transfer of extra carbon to the deep ocean 
varies significantly between experiments, 
making the general GGR potential of iron 
fertilisation questionable. Further assessment 
of carbon transfer would be needed involving 
sustained addition of iron over larger areas 
(thousands of square kilometres)129. In addition, 
to be practicable at the GtCO2 pa scale, nitrate 
(or phosphate) fertilisation would require very 
large quantities of expensive and scarce 
material130 (nitrate has to be manufactured, and 
phosphate is already in short supply), making 
wide-scale adoption unlikely. In contrast, 
iron fertilisation would require much smaller 
quantities of material at lower cost131. 
Phosphorous
Carbon dioxide
Nitrate
Iron
Ocean
CHAPTER TWO
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL 
43
Storage potential and longevity of storage
Estimates suggest that the upper limit for 
ocean iron fertilisation is a CO2 sink of not 
more than 3.7 GtCO2 pa132, with a total ocean 
sequestration capacity until the end of 
this century of 70 to 300 GtCO2, assuming 
continuous iron fertilisation of all suitable areas 
of the ocean. Carbon successfully transported 
to the deep ocean (roughly to depths of 
1000m or more) could potentially be retained 
for centuries to millennia. Although this carbon 
is eventually returned to the surface, continued 
iron fertilisation of the surface would lead to 
a long-lived increase in the carbon content of 
the deep ocean and therefore long-term GGR. 
Nevertheless, the balance between transport 
of carbon to depth and upward return flux 
limits the overall magnitude of GGR that might 
be achieved. The utility of iron fertilisation 
is challenged by questions about the depth 
of initial downward carbon transport and 
studies indicating significant upward return 
of carbon133. 
Natural resources required 
Ocean fertilisation requires a supply of the 
fertiliser and transport and distribution to the 
open ocean. Iron fertilisation would need 
energy and raw materials for iron sulphate 
production, and energy and infrastructure for 
production, transport and distribution (chemical 
plants and ships). The resources required 
for nitrate/phosphate fertilisation would be 
much greater. Little land or freshwater would 
be required in either case. However, water 
requirements for the production of nitrate 
could be significant. 
Environmental benefits and challenges 
The ecological impacts of ocean fertilisation 
on the marine food web and fisheries, and 
the downstream effects on nutrient supply, 
productivity and food web dynamics are 
extremely difficult to predict. Ocean fertilisation, 
whether by iron or other nutrients, involves a 
major modification of the plankton community 
and the carbon sequestration is a small side 
effect. Producing an additional carbon sink of 
3.7 GtCO2 pa would likely require global ocean 
plankton production to be increased greatly134. 
The types of plankton stimulated by addition 
of nutrients cannot be controlled and would 
depend on other factors, such as the availability 
of other nutrients necessary for some species. 
Some iron fertilisation experiments have 
demonstrated that toxin-producing algae may 
be stimulated, leading to ‘harmful algal blooms’ 
that can be toxic to wildlife and humans135. 
Unintended effects on ocean biogeochemistry 
may also influence the production and fluxes 
of trace greenhouse gases, such as methane 
and N2O that could reduce the benefits derived 
from increased uptake of CO2
136. Environmental 
impacts of the production and distribution of 
nutrients could also be significant but there are 
no estimates at present. 
Scalability and engineering challenges 
Ocean fertilisation may be scalable without major 
cost escalation. Deployment of iron fertilisation 
could likely be delivered at a scale of not more 
than 3.7 GtCO2 pa, though uncertainty about net 
downward carbon transport makes this number 
questionable and caveats remain regarding 
environmental risks137. No significant new 
engineering developments would be required for 
operation, but major conventional infrastructure 
such as ships, ports and chemical plants would 
need to be created. Fertilisation operations could 
in principle be commenced almost immediately, 
but there are major scientific and engineering 
challenges in developing methods for verification 
of the sequestration achieved. 
CHAPTER TWO
44 
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL
A simplistic approach (assuming that all iron is 
fully used in increased plankton production, 
a high carbon-to-iron ratio in settling material, 
and that all carbon is sequestered without 
remineralisation) yields cost estimates for 
iron fertilisation that are very low, around $10 
per tCO2. However, estimates allowing for 
significant remineralisation through respiration 
predict the cost to be about 50 times higher, 
around $500 per tCO2
138.
Risks to implementation 
Implementing nutrient addition should be 
straightforward, but ensuring that it was effective 
and not damaging to ocean ecosystems would 
be much more difficult. It would require large-
scale and long-term ship operations on the high 
seas that would be vulnerable to interference 
if faced by strong opposition. Algal blooms and 
associated oxygen depletion also pose a risk, 
as does further depletion of already-scarce 
phosphorous. 
Monitoring and evaluation
For ocean fertilisation to be successful, a 
significant fraction of the extra organic carbon 
formed needs to sink and reach the deep 
ocean. Such assessment of the downward 
carbon flux, potentially from direct assessment 
of air-sea CO2 fluxes, would be essential to any 
international carbon accounting agreement. 
Social factors
Public perception of ocean fertilisation is very 
mixed, with some people and organisations 
being positive, sometimes influenced by the 
claimed (but extremely uncertain) potential to 
enhance fisheries’ yields, and others being 
extremely negative, usually on ethical and 
ecological grounds139,140,141. 
Policy factors  
Suitable locations for nutrient addition are 
mostly in international waters, where such an 
activity would currently be banned under the 
London Convention and Protocol142. Ocean 
fertilisation would therefore currently be illegal 
and would require treaties to be amended, 
unless it were to be agreed that it did not 
constitute “dumping”. 
Image
Bloom resulting from the 
LOHAFEX iron fertilization 
experiment that took place 
in the South Atlantic in 
early 2009. Warm colours 
indicate high-biological 
productivity. NASA Goddard 
Space Flight Center, Ocean 
Ecology Laboratory, Ocean 
Biology Processing Group. 
Moderate-resolution Imaging 
Spectroradiometer (MODIS) 
Aqua Chlorophyll Data; 
2018 Reprocessing. NASA 
OB.DAAC, Greenbelt, MD, 
USA. doi: 10.5067/AQUA/
MODIS/L3B/CHL/2018.
CHAPTER TWO
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL 
45
2.7 Building with biomass
Basic principle of operation
Carbon is sequestered through photosynthesis 
in the natural world in plants and trees. Plant-
based materials such as timber and straw can 
be used in construction, enabling carbon to be 
stored in infrastructure. Harvesting timber from 
mature forests allows space for new planting 
and the continued uptake of carbon into 
forests that would otherwise no longer provide 
net carbon uptake. Materials can perform 
various functions in the building process; for 
example, timber and bamboo can provide 
structural foundations while hemp and other 
forms of cellulose fibre can provide insulation. 
Each application will vary in lifespan143 and, 
while not a permanent storage solution, 
biomass products can potentially sequester 
carbon for several decades. 
There are also new types of engineered wood 
products, such as glulam, oriented stand 
lumber and cross-laminated timber, which are 
manufactured from wood and create more 
construction opportunities than are available 
using ‘normal’ wood. 
Technology readiness
Wood has been used in construction for over 
10,000 years. Hard wood is often used for its 
durability, but it is slow to grow, which limits 
its viability for this purpose. More recently, 
thermal and chemical treatments have been 
developed that can improve the properties 
of soft wood and take advantage of its faster 
growing cycle. The most developed of soft-
wood treatment is acetylation, where acetic 
anhydride is used to cause a chemical reaction 
in the plant cell wall, which reduces the wood’s 
reactivity. This process enhances the material’s 
stability, durability and resistance to fungal 
decay and fire144.
Increasingly ambitious wooden buildings and 
bridges are being constructed, such as an 
18-storey building at the University of British 
Columbia. Biomass in other forms is also used 
in construction and there is potential for very 
fast-growing bamboo to be engineered into 
slabs with material properties better than 
conventional timber145. Construction blocks 
(Durisol) made from recycled timber avoid 
the sustainability issues related to wood from 
virgin resources and provides a cleaner route 
for disposal of treated wood. As brick and 
insulation substitutes, they may require smaller 
changes to design and construction practice 
than other biomass based building materials.
Carbon dioxide
CHAPTER TWO
46 
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL
While these techniques are relatively well 
understood, further research is needed to 
establish whether large scale, treated timber 
structures behave fundamentally differently 
to non-combustible buildings in a fire, how to 
improve the coating of the timber to achieve 
superior strength and performance, how 
to ensure structural integrity under various 
climatic, geological, and vibration conditions, 
and how to recycle or dispose of the timber 
structures at the end of their useful lifetime146. 
Storage potential and longevity of storage
Building with biomass can both avoid new 
emissions and provide storage for CO2 captured 
in forestry. The potential GGR potential from 
building with biomass through replacement of 
conventional construction materials is estimated 
to be in the range 0.5 to 1 GtCO2 pa147. It has 
been claimed that this could save 14 – 31% 
of global CO2 emissions and 12% to 19% of 
global fossil fuel consumption. However, to 
achieve this scale, 34% to 100% of the world’s 
sustainable wood growth would be required148.
Carbon remains sequestered for the duration 
over which the building or timbers are in use. 
Generally, the lifespan of wooden buildings and 
lifetime emissions associated with electricity 
and heating costs are comparable to that of 
concrete and steel structures149. Considering 
carbon sequestered only, Wood for Good 
estimated that 3.8 MtCO2 could be captured 
in the UK every year if 200,000 three-bed, 
timber framed houses were built a year150. The 
method of decommissioning timber buildings 
will also affect their lifetime emissions. To 
maximise sequestration potential, the materials 
should be reused, or burnt with CCS, although 
this may be difficult to ensure at scale151,152.
Life cycle assessment studies of the carbon 
emissions saved by timber building relative to 
steel and concrete have been inconclusive153,154. 
One study found that sustainably harvested 
wood used for building has slightly greater GGR 
potential than if used for bioenergy155. 
Natural resources required 
The cost of transition to building with biomass 
has been considered negligible156 but to 
facilitate an increase in scale, more trees would 
need to be planted, which will require additional 
land. The fast growing, high yield renewable 
softwoods trees, such as radiata pine grown 
largely in New Zealand, require as little as 25 
years of growth to reach maturity for harvesting, 
whereas in the UK sitka spruce trees can 
provide a local alternative with around 40 years 
growth. There will be energy requirements 
for harvesting, treating, processing and 
transporting. Water requirements will be similar 
to those for afforestation and reforestation. 
Environmental benefits and challenges
These materials provide an alternative to 
standard construction materials, including 
steel and concrete, which are typically 
carbon-intensive to produce. Timber is 
thought to have potential long-term benefits 
for tall buildings as it is less dense; resulting 
in reduced weight burden on both the 
structure and foundations, saving additional 
steel and concrete. Offsite manufacture may 
offer potential efficiency benefits, reducing 
disruption and waste157 and any waste created 
could be used for bioenergy (with or without 
CCS). Creating a mass wood product market 
could also help to incentivise reforestation.
Good forest management is a critical element 
in the production of wood for the construction 
industry, however, there are risks of poor 
management. There are also potential 
biodiversity risks if all of the trees grown are 
CHAPTER TWO
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL 
47
of the same species. Additionally, at the end of 
their lives the wooden infrastructure materials 
would have to be repurposed for the carbon to 
remain captured, which may be a challenge if 
adopted at scale.
 
Scalability and engineering challenges 
Construction with wood products is technically 
scalable, but potential demand for wooden 
structures is uncertain and increased 
afforestation will compete with agricultural 
land. With an increasing global population, 
it is estimated that 60% of the infrastructure 
required by 2030 is yet to be constructed158. 
If the right incentives are put in place, building 
with biomass could provide storage for a 
significant amount of carbon. In the UK there 
may be further constraints from the existing 
building regulations and limited timber 
engineering skills and expertise, so rapid wide-
scale adoption could be difficult to facilitate159. 
The construction industry has been widely seen 
as risk-averse due to small profit margins, but 
some uptake of timber building has been seen 
over recent years. For example, 22% of new-
build homes in the UK are now timber framed, 
with proportion in Scotland alone as high as 
76%160 and their construction is commonplace 
in Scandinavia and North America.
Risks to implementation
Shortages of sustainable wood supply, alongside 
uncertain demand and slow build-up of expertise 
in timber construction may limit implementation. 
Building requirements would need modification 
to permit unfamiliar construction methods and 
provide the necessary quality assurance and 
fire safety for the uptake of timber building 
to increase. There is an additional risk that 
processing and transportation reduce the 
extent of the benefits of this GGR method.
Monitoring and evaluation
The benefits of extending the longevity and 
security of carbon storage, originally created 
through forestation, in the built environment 
needs to be recognised by carbon accounting 
agreements. There are some mechanisms for 
recording the use of timber in construction but 
these vary from country to country. Within the 
UK, this is carried out by TRADA, the Timber 
Research and Development Association, 
although this is limited to the building stage 
and does not consider the end of the 
building’s lifespan. 
Social factors
Although some countries have a tradition of 
building with wood, in others, such as the UK, 
there is some public unease associated with 
the fire performance of timber framed houses161. 
There are, nevertheless, also significant 
aesthetic qualities associated with building using 
engineered wood products, which means there 
is a drive for their increased use from architects.
Policy factors 
Incentives for tree planting and sustainable 
forest management would be needed to 
significantly expand the scale of building with 
wood. Policy and regulatory support would 
also be required to ensure commercial viability 
and encourage the change from conventional 
building materials, including implementation of 
more appropriate building standards.
There is greater need for cooperation in this 
area between business and government, as 
risk aversion in the construction industry may 
be a greater hindrance to deployment than 
competition from alternative materials.
As with BECCS, if biomass used for building is 
imported, there will need to be international 
agreement about the country that can claim 
the carbon credit and a mechanism to monitor 
the storage.
CHAPTER TWO
48 
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL
2.8 Enhanced terrestrial weathering
Basic principle of operation
On geological time scales, silicate rocks 
naturally break down, or ‘weather’. This 
chemical reaction removes CO2 from the 
atmosphere and releases metal ions and 
carbonate or bicarbonate ions. These ions 
are either washed into the ocean to increase 
its alkalinity, or are precipitated as carbonate 
minerals, like limestone, on land. 
Enhanced weathering could accelerate this 
process by milling silicate rocks containing 
calcium or magnesium (for example, basalt) 
to increase the reactive surface area and 
dramatically increase the rate of mineral 
dissolution. The most pragmatic approach for 
deployment is spreading the fine-grained rock 
dust over large areas of managed cropland 
because they are already actively managed 
and altered. Plant roots, and their associated 
microorganisms, speed up the weathering 
process and high levels of CO2 in the soil, 
due to respiration of organic material, lead 
to acidity that further accelerates the process 
by a factor of 2 to 10162. 
Technology readiness
Enhanced weathering could technically be 
applied now. The agricultural sector routinely 
applies granular fertilisers and various forms 
of lime, making applications of fine-grained 
silicate rock feasible at scale with existing farm 
equipment. Technology for mining, crushing and 
grinding rocks is well established, and might 
take advantage of rock already partially ground 
that is available in mine tailings (see 2.9). 
Storage potential and longevity of storage
Estimates place global removal potential 
between 0.5 and 4.0 GtCO2 pa by 2100 if two 
thirds of the most productive cropland soils 
(900 Mha) were treated with basalt dust at 10 
to 30 tonnes per ha pa, depending on climate, 
soil and crop type163. 
Theoretical considerations suggest a maximum, 
gross, carbon capture potential of 0.3 tCO2 
per tonne of basalt, assuming a sufficiently 
fine particle size for complete dissolution on 
decadal time scales164. On this basis, applying 
10 to 50 t per ha pa of basalt to 70 Mha of 
the annual corn and soy crops in the corn-
belt of North America could, in the long-run, 
sequester 0.2 to 1.1 GtCO2 pa165. Improving 
these estimates is a research priority. 
Carbon dioxide
Minerals
CHAPTER TWO
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL 
49
Significant precipitation of carbonate minerals 
in agricultural soil as a result of enhanced 
weathering could limit long-term application 
and reduce these estimates.
Based on the results of a simple model, there 
is a maximum CO2 capture potential in the 
UK of 12 to 21 MtCO2 pa for low-to-moderate 
application rates (10 to 20 tonnes per ha pa) 
and 19 to 27 MtCO2 pa for a high application 
rate (30 tonnes per ha pa)166. 
A significant proportion of the CO2 removed 
from the atmosphere during enhanced 
weathering is ultimately likely to be stored 
in the surface ocean as dissolved inorganic 
carbon. The ocean storage capacity is large 
and should be stable (see 2.10). A smaller 
but presently unknown fraction of the carbon 
would be stored as carbonate minerals in soils 
or potentially elsewhere on land. This is likely 
to be long-term storage, but little research has 
yet directly assessed this permanence. 
Natural resources required
Enhanced weathering on cropland requires no 
additional land and can be co-deployed (for 
example) with the feedstocks for BECCS and 
biochar to increase sequestration potential per 
unit of land area. However, mining of silicate 
rocks may require land for surface (open pit) 
mining. The need for such mining is decreased 
if using silicate wastes that are already available 
such as mine waste, cements, ashes and slags.
If scaled up, enhanced weathering would 
require supplies of reactive silicate rocks 
and significant energy required for rock 
extraction, grinding and transportation, leading 
to additional CO2 emissions from the energy 
consumed. Fast-weathering olivine-rich rocks 
for which commercial mines are already in 
operation are often considered, though major 
continental flood basalts, which are a result 
of historic volcanic activity, also have promise 
and are located near to productive agricultural 
regions where rock might be required.
The annual waste from silicate mining and 
industrial processes could provide 9 to 17 Gt 
mineral pa globally, which may be sufficient 
resource for 0.7 to 1.2 GtCO2 pa of CO2 
sequestration167. Using 64 Mt pa of the UK’s 
estimated 86 Mt pa of silicate waste would 
enable an application rate to all arable land 
of 10 t per ha pa168. However, further research 
and development (R&D) would be required 
to assess the suitability of this material for 
croplands. Higher application rates would 
require supplementing silicate waste with 
additional materials obtained by mining, 
grinding and spreading.
Environmental benefits and challenges
Enhanced weathering with basalt has long 
been practiced on a small scale and the first 
patent for using silicate-rich slag as fertiliser 
was obtained in the United States in 1881 and 
has been used widely since169. There are 
a number of established benefits that can 
lead to increased food production and soil 
improvement170. Increased levels of phosphate 
and other nutrients, reduced soil acidification 
and increased soil carbon stocks may increase 
plant and soil health as well as human nutrition 
(from harvested crops) and result in decreased 
requirement of pesticide and fertiliser, 
improving economics of the agricultural sector. 
Basalt addition has the potential to rejuvenate 
an estimated 100 to 1000 Mha of marginal 
agricultural land171, which could significantly 
expand the current global cropland.
CHAPTER TWO
50 
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL
However, where mining and processing 
of new rocks is required, these are likely 
to have some negative environmental and 
ecological impacts, especially if linked to 
tropical deforestation. Very small silicate rock 
particles can cause silicosis if inhaled, so this 
must be avoided during mineral processing 
and application to land. Once spread, impacts 
on soil microbial biodiversity remain to be 
determined. Particles washed into rivers, and 
ultimately the oceans, may decrease water 
clarity, and result in sedimentation and pH 
changes, with unknown impacts for marine 
biodiversity and function172. 
Fast-weathering olivine-rich rocks contain 
relatively high concentrations of various 
metals, and in some cases asbestos, which 
may represent a significant environmental risk 
if they accumulate in soils, water and the food 
chain. Basalts have lower concentrations of 
some of these metals and significantly higher 
concentrations of phosphorus, which would 
be useful for application to croplands. The 
chemical composition of waste materials (such 
as mine tailings or slags) and risk of toxicity 
have not been widely assessed and would 
require assessment before use.
Other life cycle impacts associated 
with energy use, such as acidification, 
eutrophication, human and eco-toxicities, will 
also be generated. These have not yet been 
quantified and warrant further research. 
Scalability and engineering challenges
A rigorous cost-benefit analysis including 
co-benefits has not yet been performed. 
Such a study would allow assessment of 
the attractiveness of enhanced weathering 
implementation among farmers and land 
managers worldwide and in the UK. Dedicated 
pilot projects and programmes could establish 
the evidence base within a decade or two 
and help resolve key uncertainties through 
data acquisition, development of practice 
and biogeochemical modelling.
Current cost estimates are uncertain and vary 
widely. The most detailed analysis for a basic 
silicate rock, such as basalt, gives estimated 
costs of $52 to $480 per tCO2, dominated 
by mineral processing and transport costs173. 
Deployment costs may be partially offset 
by gains in crop productivity and reduced 
requirements for lime, fertiliser, pesticide 
and fungicide applications.
Monitoring and evaluation
Carbon capture by weathering over millions 
of years is a well-established climate control 
mechanism, underpinned by decades of 
geochemical theory. However, audited field-
scale assessments of the efficacy of CO2 
capture resulting from adding crushed reactive 
silicate rocks to forested lands and croplands 
are still required, including evaluation of CO2 
capture in soils as carbonates and in streams 
and rivers as dissolved inorganic carbon. Such 
field trials must be accompanied by detailed 
environmental monitoring to develop rigorous 
audited testing.
CHAPTER TWO
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL 
51
Risks to implementation
Enhanced weathering is relatively immature 
and requires further research, development 
and demonstration across a range of crops, 
soil types, climates and spatial scales. 
Experimental and small-scale evaluation of its 
efficacy and permanency as a means of GGR 
remain priority research areas to understand 
its future relevance and contribution alongside 
environmental monitoring and reporting.
Social factors
Assessments of public opinion in the UK 
indicate support for research on enhanced 
weathering, provided it is conducted in 
small-scale trials with strict monitoring, risk 
minimisation and transparency of results174. 
Engagement of the Australian and New 
Zealander public highlights the need for 
improving the profile and basic understanding 
of the concept, but analyses suggest this 
currently poorly-defined concept is unlikely 
to raise major public concerns175. 
Large-scale deployment could raise public 
concerns regarding rock mining, especially 
if ecosystems are impacted. Enhanced 
weathering will also need to be managed 
carefully to avoid local opposition, for instance 
due to noise and disruption from rock 
transportation and spreading, and any actual 
or perceived health impacts from rock dust.
Policy factors 
Enhanced weathering is not presently 
included in national or international carbon 
accounting agreements. To do so will require 
fuller appraisal of the ecological implications 
and establishment of monitoring and 
verification processes. 
In the UK, spreading waste material on land 
requires an environmental permit. New 
regulations and standards may be required 
if that is to be undertaken for the practice of 
enhanced terrestrial weathering on cropland.
Image
Pulverized basalt is 
dispersed in a corn 
field prior to tillage by a 
machine traditionally used 
for lime application at 
University of Illinois Energy 
Farm, University of Illinois 
at Urbana-Champaign.  
© Ilsa Kantola.
CHAPTER TWO
52 
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL
2.9 Mineral carbonation
Basic principle of operation
The conversion of silicate rocks to carbonates 
(as also used in enhanced terrestrial 
weathering) can be accelerated by industrial 
processes above ground (ex situ) or in 
silicate rocks below the surface (in situ). Most 
demonstrations of mineral carbonation have 
relied on a CO2-rich gas and are, therefore, 
best considered as an alternative to 
conventional CCS for storage, rather than for 
direct CO2 removal from the atmosphere.
Ex situ approaches accelerate reactions by 
grinding and pretreating the minerals before 
reacting with CO2. In situ processes rely on 
the injection of CO2 into permeable rock and 
acceleration by higher temperatures and 
pressures at depth. The resulting product of 
both these processes is a stable carbonate 
mineral, which may have commercial use as 
construction material or for steel production. 
It is also possible that the products, such as 
magnesium carbonates, might be used to 
increase ocean alkalinity for further GGR176.
Technology readiness
Many groups, funded by governments 
and industry, have demonstrated ex situ 
approaches for mineral carbonation. Despite 
high demands for raw material and energy, 
some companies have commercialised 
carbonation processes at small scale (for 
example Calera in the USA). The UK hosts 
one of the few companies to commercialise 
ex situ mineral carbonation (Carbon8), 
presently used for treating hazardous industrial 
wastes. In situ carbonation from injection of 
CO2 into basalts has been demonstrated in 
Iceland in the CarbFix project177, but presently 
only at a scale of 0.01 MtCO2.
 
Storage potential and longevity of storage
Suitable silicates for mineral carbonation 
include basalt and similar rocks that are 
present in very large quantities in many areas 
of the world. The theoretical storage potential 
of mineral carbonation is therefore effectively 
limitless. Limitations derive from cost and 
scalability of the approach.
The resulting carbonate minerals are stable 
and provide perhaps the most secure of any 
form of sequestered CO2. 
IN-SITU
EX-SITU
Minerals
Carbon dioxide
CHAPTER TWO
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL 
53
Natural resources required
For ex situ carbonation, the primary resources 
are silicate minerals and energy. Energy 
requirements vary significantly depending 
on the process pursued, but range from 1.5 
to 8.8 GJ per tCO2
178. Taking into account 
the full life cycle and energy consumption 
of ex situ mineral carbonation, the additional 
greenhouse gas emissions range from 0.5 
to 1.1 tCO2 per tCO2 removed179. Therefore, 
at best, only half the CO2 is removed by 
mineral carbonation and, at worst, more 
CO2 is generated then removed. The use 
of pre-ground material, such as industrial 
waste or mine tailings, reduces the energy 
demands on this process and the need for 
additional mining. 
Land is required for ex situ carbonation if 
additional mining is pursued, or for storage 
of the carbonated product, but land is not the 
primary limitation. Water is required during ex 
situ carbonation to enhance reaction rates and 
for dust suppression in mines.
Environmental benefits and challenges
Increases in mining activity for ex situ 
carbonation, or drilling and injection activity 
for in situ carbonation, as well as energy 
conversion, would be accompanied by the 
usual environmental considerations of these 
activities. There are no data on net, life cycle, 
CO2 removal for in situ carbonation. 
Mineral carbonation of some environmentally 
hazardous waste materials can be performed 
in a manner which stabilises the wastes 
allowing use in products such as aggregate. 
Scalability and engineering challenges
Scalability and cost are the major limitations 
on mineral carbonation. Two to three tonnes 
of silicate mineral are needed for a reaction to 
sequester 1 tCO2, so to sequester 3.7 GtCO2 pa 
would require efficient reaction with around 10 
Gt pa of rock. For context, this is about three 
times the global production of crude iron ore. 
Cost estimates for ex situ carbonation vary 
from $50 to 300 per tCO2. Early estimates 
for in situ carbonation are much lower at 
$17 per tCO2. The latter remains higher than 
conventional geological storage, but may 
not require the long-term monitoring needed 
for CCS, avoiding the additional cost). As 
mentioned earlier, carbonation cannot remove 
CO2 directly from air and it would need to be 
coupled with DACCS or BECCS180. 
This resource demand and the high cost mean 
that pursuit of ex situ mineral carbonation has 
so far been seen as viable only for disposal of 
certain industrial wastes, such as slags or mining 
fines. Companies pursuing this approach rely 
on the need to make wastes safe, or on sale of 
the end-products. Pursuit at larger scale would 
require a financial incentive and would then 
be best located where there are suitable rocks 
and a supply of CO2 from power-generation 
or another GGR approach, such as DACCS, to 
provide CO2. In the UK, there is significant waste 
from the steel and cement industries that might 
be carbonated (as described in Low-carbon 
concrete). There are also some minerals that 
would be suitable as potential feedstock for 
ex situ carbonation, particularly in Scotland, 
Northern Ireland, and Cornwall.
CHAPTER TWO
54 
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL
Scalability of in situ carbonation depends on 
finding suitable reservoirs with close proximity 
to the CO2 source and reservoir development 
(drilling and building a storage infrastructure). 
Scaling up in situ carbonation may also be 
limited by the process of carbonation itself, which 
changes the rock structure. Carbonation reduces 
the porosity of the rock to CO2, but also causes 
expansion that can result in fractures. The former 
impedes carbonation, while the latter could 
enhance it, and the overall balance will vary 
depending on a variety of factors181. Globally, the 
storage capacity for in situ carbonation is huge, 
but in the UK it is likely relatively small. However 
no serious evaluation of potential onshore and 
offshore reservoirs has yet been performed.
Risks to implementation
The risks of implementation are small. In situ 
carbonation also circumvents the risk of CO2 
leakage inherent in conventional geological 
CO2 storage.
Monitoring and evaluation
The products of ex situ carbonation can 
readily be measured, and ongoing monitoring 
is not likely to be needed given the stability 
of the resulting minerals. In situ carbonation 
is less well developed, but first results from 
the CarbFix project have demonstrated 
>95% CO2 removal following injection into 
Icelandic basalts within less than two years182. 
This positive result would require replication 
at other sites to provide confidence about 
replicability, scalability, and protocols for 
monitoring CO2 disposal. 
Social factors 
The stable end-product of mineral carbonation 
makes it an approach that could generally be 
perceived more positively by the public than 
many other GGRs. However, opening new 
mines would likely meet with public opposition.
Policy factors 
Neither in situ nor ex situ carbonation have yet 
been pursued at sufficient scale to factor into 
national carbon budgets. If proven workable 
and economic at scale, it will be important 
that in situ carbonate is given similar credit as 
conventional geological CO2 storage if it is to 
be incentivised. De Beers announced their 
desire to develop a carbon-neutral mine using 
ex situ carbonation of mine waste which, if 
successful, would suggest incentivising GGR in 
the mining sector could be effective183.
Image
Core from injection site 
showing CarbFix project 
CO2 bearing carbonate 
minerals within basaltic 
host rock. Photo Sandra 
O Snaebjornsdottir  
© Carbfix.
CHAPTER TWO
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL 
55
2.10 Ocean alkalinity
Basic principle of operation
The ocean alkalinity approach to GGR seeks 
to increase carbon uptake into the ocean 
by increasing the seawater concentration 
of stable, positively-charged ions, such as 
calcium (Ca2+). The ocean contains about 
65 times more carbon than the atmosphere, 
some as carbonate (CO3
2-) but mostly as 
bicarbonate (HCO3
-) ions. The concentration 
of these negatively charged forms of carbon 
is controlled by concentration of positively 
charged ions like Ca2+, described as alkalinity f.
Intentionally increasing the ocean’s alkalinity 
leads to transfer of dissolved CO2 to the ionic 
forms of carbon, and hence to additional 
uptake of CO2 from the atmosphere184. This 
might be achieved directly by addition of 
lime (CaO or Ca(OH)2) to seawater. It might 
also provide an alternative to traditional CCS 
by reacting a CO2-rich gas with water and 
limestone and transferring the carbon-rich 
products to the oceans. Increased alkalinity 
would also result if the dissolved products of 
enhanced terrestrial weathering, including 
positively charged ions and carbon, are 
transported into the ocean. 
Technology readiness
Increasing the carbon content of the ocean by 
increasing the alkalinity of seawater relies on 
well-understood chemistry and can readily be 
demonstrated in the laboratory. No field-scale 
trial of the approach has been undertaken, 
however. At its simplest, enhancing alkalinity 
would use existing technology; there is 
plentiful limestone, lime is already produced 
from it for the cement and other industries, 
and distribution from ships would not require 
technological advance. CCS would, however, 
be required where lime is produced to ensure 
that CO2 emissions generated during the 
calcination process do not outweigh the 
emissions removed by ocean alkalinisation. 
Reaction of CO2 in flue gases with limestone 
to produce high-alkalinity solutions has also 
been demonstrated in the lab, but not scaled 
up to industrial level. Application at scale 
also requires research into the environmental 
response to consider possible negative 
consequences on ecosystems, or reversal 
of the alkalinity addition.
Carbon dioxide
Minerals
Ocean
f. 
 Note Alkalinity is defined as the concentration of net positive charge in ions that do not change chemical form with pH  
(such as Ca2+, Mg2+, Na+ etc.) and is balanced by net negative charge in ionic chemical species, particularly CO3
2- and HCO3
-.  
It is not just the opposite of acidity.
CHAPTER TWO
56 
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL
Storage potential and longevity of storage
Increased ocean alkalinity could theoretically 
remove many GtCO2 pa. The uptake of 
additional carbon would only lead to a small 
fractional change to the large natural carbon 
content of the oceans. Modelling suggests that 
increased alkalinity could lead to additional 
ocean storage of as much as 3500 GtCO2 
by 2100185 though this assessment does not 
consider how this large alkalinity addition 
would be realised. 
Carbon stored in the ocean in this fashion 
is stable as long as alkalinity remains high. 
However, if the alkalinity increase were 
sufficient locally to cause mineral precipitation 
(either spontaneously or through increased 
shell production), this would reduce the carbon-
carrying capacity of the water and reverse the 
CO2 uptake. If alkalinity was initially added from 
weathering or reaction of limestone then this 
would completely reverse the benefit, while if 
it were from dissolution of silicates or from lime 
produced with CCS, only about half of the CO2 
uptake would be reversed186. The likely extent 
of carbonate mineral formation in response to 
increased alkalinity is essentially unknown and 
represents a limitation in present assessment 
of the effectiveness and longevity of this 
GGR technique. 
Natural resources required 
The primary resource requirement for ocean 
alkalinity is a source of calcium or magnesium 
minerals to provide that alkalinity. A natural 
source is limestone, mostly composed of 
calcium carbonate, which covers around 10% 
of the earth’s surface, but it would need to 
be extracted and converted to lime for direct 
addition. Limestone extraction at levels similar 
to that of the global cement industry would 
be required to achieve uptake of 3.7 GtCO2 
pa187. Around 5 GJ of energy is required per 
tonne of CO2 removed by calcium carbonate188, 
with the main energy requirements for the 
mining and grinding of limestone and, for direct 
lime addition, production of lime by calcination. 
This calcination process also produces about 
60% of the mass of CO2 that is consumed on 
subsequent addition to the ocean, so efficient 
pursuit of alkalinity addition for GGR would 
require storage of the CO2 from calcination, or 
result in significantly reduced overall benefit. 
For approaches using reaction of CO2 in 
flue gas with limestone to produce alkaline 
solutions, water is an additional resource 
requirement, and may require location on 
the coast and the use of seawater. Land use 
requirements would arise from the additional 
(new) mining required. 
A full assessment of the UK’s potential for 
ocean alkalinity addition has not yet been 
conducted. The UK has plentiful limestone 
deposits, an active cement industry, coastal 
power-generation, and a strong shipping 
industry, so could pursue this approach.
Environmental benefits and challenges
An increase of alkalinity would partially offset 
the effects of ocean acidification caused by 
high atmospheric CO2 concentrations, so 
controlled addition of alkalinity could have 
beneficial consequences for ecosystems in 
some regions189, though these have not been 
assessed in the field. 
At locations of alkalinity addition, there is 
the potential for adverse effects on local 
ecosystems due to the resulting high pH. 
Lime(stone) also contains impurities, some of 
which may either be toxic or act as nutrients to 
perturb ocean ecosystems. The response of 
the ocean ecosystem to both high pH and to 
impurity addition has not yet been assessed. 
CHAPTER TWO
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL 
57
Other environmental challenges are the 
environmental impacts commonly associated 
with mining (e.g. biodiversity loss, acidification 
of drainage, perturbation of nutrient cycles) 
and associated with the requirements 
for energy and CCS. Depending on the 
mechanism for distribution of the alkalinity, 
there would be additional impacts from 
shipping, for example due to the high-sulphur 
fuel currently used in shipping.
Scalability and engineering challenges 
Addition of alkalinity to the ocean could rely 
on existing technology. Small scale application 
might use waste fines from existing limestone 
production190, but removal of 4 GtCO2 pa would 
require doubling the global production of lime, 
and around 100 ships for ocean distribution 
globally191. Extending this to reach the full 
potential capacity would require significantly 
more resources. New infrastructure would 
be required for lime production, ideally to 
produce pure CO2 for CCS, or for reaction of 
power-station flue gas with limestone. Coastal 
operation would minimise land-transport costs, 
and would likely be essential for limestone 
neutralisation of flue gas, given water 
requirements. 
The full cost of GGR by production and oceanic 
distribution of lime have been estimated as $72 
to $159 per tonne of CO2
192,193.
Risks to implementation
The major risks are environmental, and reflect 
insufficient knowledge of the response of the 
ocean ecosystem to enhanced alkalinity and 
associated addition of mineral impurities. There 
is also risk associated with possible partial 
reversal of CO2 uptake if the precipitation of 
carbonate minerals were to occur. 
Monitoring and evaluation
Direct measurement of CO2 uptake by the 
ocean in response to alkalinity addition would 
be challenging, but monitoring the addition of 
lime or the products of flue gas neutralisation 
would be relatively straightforward. The 
possibility of partial reversal by mineral 
precipitation would require evaluation and 
may need to be monitored, particularly close 
to sites of addition. 
Social factors 
The oceans hold a special place in the 
environmental awareness of many societies 
and there is often a dislike of processes that 
intentionally interfere with them. This may be 
an impediment to the large-scale application of 
alkalinity addition. Smaller scale deployment for 
mitigation of the impact of ocean acidification 
(for example on a coral reef) may not face the 
same opposition.
Policy factors 
The London Convention and Protocol194 
controls addition of material to the ocean 
and prohibits “deliberate disposal at sea of 
wastes or other matter from vessels… or other 
structures at sea”. Interpretation within the 
Convention of the intentional addition of lime 
for GGR rather than as a waste is unclear, but 
consideration in this regulatory framework 
would be required before pursuit of ocean 
alkalinity addition from ships. 
CHAPTER TWO
58 
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL
Mineral carbonation
Low-carbon concrete
Carbon dioxide
2.11 Direct air capture and 
carbon storage (DACCS)
Basic principle of operation
Direct air capture and carbon storage (DACCS) 
is the name given to a family of different 
technologies that use chemical bonding to 
remove CO2 directly from the atmosphere 
and then store it. CO2 is captured from the 
air into a ‘separating agent’ that is then later 
regenerated with heat, water or both, releasing 
the CO2 as a high purity stream for subsequent 
geological storage, mineralisation or utilisation. 
Two key challenges in DACCS are the large 
flows of air required for a relatively small 
amount of CO2 captured and the resources 
required for regeneration of the separating 
agent. There are a large number of different 
technologies that could feasibly be used for 
this purpose for example; 
So-called ‘artificial trees’, using a large 
exposed surface area of carbon adsorbing 
material to passively remove carbon from the 
atmosphere. Once saturated, the adsorbent 
is humidified or soaked in water at low 
pressure. This releases the CO2 and allows 
the adsorbent to be dried and reused195. 
This process is also being commercialised to 
provide CO2 for greenhouses at small scale196. 
‘Supported amine absorption’, in which chemicals 
called amines (also routinely used for CCS) are 
held on a porous material with a large surface 
area. Air is then passed through this material 
and the amines react with the CO2. Once 
saturated, this material is heated releasing 
the CO2 and regenerating the absorbent for 
further capture. This process has recently 
been implemented in a small commercial plant 
by Climeworks197. A similar process based on 
amines supported on ceramic monolith supports 
has been demonstrated by Global Thermostat, 
which, similarly to Climeworks, can use low grade 
waste heat for regeneration of the amine198.
The ‘lime-soda process’ used by Carbon 
Engineering199, where sodium hydroxide 
(NaOH) absorbs CO2 from the atmosphere 
creating sodium carbonate (Na2CO3) and water 
(H2O). Lime (CaO) is then added to regenerate 
the sodium hydroxide, leaving a calcium 
carbonate (CaCO3) precipitate which is heated 
to regenerate the lime and produce CO2
200. 
All these processes have high energy or heat 
requirements that may be prohibitive, but 
could be partially alleviated if integrated with 
other systems. By co-locating DAC technology 
with industrial processes that emit waste 
heat, such as gas power plants with CCS, 
the DAC process could reduce the energy 
requirements and cost. 
Carbon dioxide
Geological reservoir
CHAPTER TWO
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL 
59
Technology readiness
There are a wide range of DACCS processes at 
various stages of maturity201. Developments at 
laboratory and pilot plant scale are increasing, 
in part to explore alternative methods that can 
reduce energy requirements of the processes, 
one of the main barriers to adoption. 
Meanwhile more mature technologies, like 
amine absorption, are closer to practical 
implementation, with at least four plants now 
operating at demonstration and semi-commercial 
scale. It is estimated that these technologies 
currently lie between pilot plant development 
and prototype demonstration in the field.
Storage potential and longevity of storage
The storage potential and longevity of DACCS 
depends on the storage potential associated 
with the selected sequestration method. If 
geological storage is used, then long-term 
(approaching indefinite) storage is possible. 
Globally, even if only depleted oil and gas 
fields are considered for use, storage capacity 
of the order of 900 GtCO2 is estimated to 
exist202. The predicted capacity for UK based 
CCS storage is of the order of 20 GtCO2
203. 
If alternative uses are made of the captured 
CO2, the storage longevity is dependent 
on the ultimate fate of the carbon atoms 
and can vary from over 100 years if used in 
structural polymers, to only months if used 
to produce fuels. 
Natural resources required 
The resource requirements differ according 
to the nature of the DACCS process used. 
Passive DACCS processes, such as ‘artificial 
trees’, depend on natural circulation of air 
through the capturing agent so do not have 
a high operating power demand, but do 
require significant land area. Active contacting 
processes, in contrast, can be more compact,  
but require power for continuous flow of 
air through a device. In both cases, the 
regeneration of the capture agent requires 
one or more resources; typically some 
combination of water, heat and low pressure/
vacuum. These resources must be supplied 
from low-carbon sources to ensure sustainable 
CO2 removal over the whole life cycle. 
Depending on the capture mechanism DACCS 
may be able to deal with intermittent energy 
supply from renewables. 
A thermodynamic analysis estimates that the 
theoretical minimum energy requirement for 
DAC is 30 kJ per mol CO2
204 (0.68 GJ per 
tCO2). In practice, technologies are likely to 
require 10 times this amount, but even at 
that energy requirement combined cycle 
gas power, which produces c. 10 GJ per 
tCO2 emitted, could potentially be used for 
net removals. Nevertheless, most designs 
anticipate the use of renewable energy or 
waste heat as far as possible. Furthermore, 
additional resources, such as water and land, 
would be required dependent on the chosen 
sequestration method, but this would be 
relatively low compared to the other land-
based GGR pathways.
Environmental benefits and challenges
In terms of environmental challenges, passive 
processes may necessitate significant land use 
and lead to changes of the local landscape. 
Other processes may require combustion 
of fuel for thermal regeneration of the CO2 
capture agent and therefore mitigation of local 
and global pollution is critical. Amine-based 
carbon capture processes should be designed 
to avoid release of degradation products 
(such as nitramines and nitroasamines). Life 
cycle environmental impact assessments for 
the different DACCS technologies are limited, 
with only one study published so far205.
CHAPTER TWO
60 
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL
Scalability and engineering challenges 
The implementation of DACCS faces two 
major technical issues: access to adequate 
low-carbon energy and water to drive capture 
and regeneration and dealing with the 
resultant high purity CO2 stream. However, 
one of its advantages is that it can be located 
wherever access to the necessary resources 
is convenient. The technology and storage 
requirements of DACCS are similar to those 
of power generation and CCS and so the 
timescale of ramp-up will also be comparable. 
Large scale deployment by 2050, with early 
deployment in 2030, should be possible from 
a technical point of view. Cost estimates for 
the capture process (not including storage) 
for early stage projects typically range from 
$200 to $600 per tCO2
206,207, with companies 
like Carbon Engineering, aiming towards 
$100 per tCO2
208.
Risks to implementation
The main risks of DACCS are associated with 
the requirement for storage, and the transport 
of CO2 at high pressure and with integrity of 
CO2 storage. 
Monitoring and evaluation
There are three elements in the DACCS 
system that would require effective monitoring: 
life cycle impacts of the material and energy 
inputs (emissions and environmental); the 
amount and efficiency of capture; and the 
integrity of CO2 storage. Where the CO2 
is not stored geologically, the life cycle of 
the material used to store CO2 must be 
understood and used to quantify the actual 
storage over different lifetimes.
Social factors 
Concerns around DACCS are expected to be 
similar to those for any medium-size industrial 
facility, related to amenity, landscape and 
noise, and around land use where relevant. For 
the former, co-location with existing industrial 
processes will facilitate planning and may 
provide access to waste heat that can be used 
for the regeneration step. Methods requiring 
large areas of land may co-exist satisfactorily 
with other uses, such as agriculture.
Policy factors 
DACCS is now being referred to in the 
mainstream media209, but there is no specific 
current policy support beyond basic R&D via 
research councils and other funding bodies. In 
the UK, there is no near-commercial activity.
Image
Carbon Engineering's 
DAC system. Shown are 
the air contactor (right) 
and calciner (left).  
© Carbon Engineering Ltd.
CHAPTER TWO
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL 
61
2.12 Low-carbon concrete
Basic principle of operation
Concrete is made by curing cement with 
aggregate. At present cement production 
is responsible for around 5% of global CO2 
emissions though a number of technologies 
have been suggested to dramatically decrease 
these emissions and to store CO2 in the 
built environment210. Some approaches may 
provide limited GGR however, at large scale, 
these technologies generally provide useful 
reductions in emissions and do not achieve 
net removal of CO2 from the atmosphere. 
Altering the constituents, manufacture, or 
recycling method of concrete could enable 
increased storage of CO2 in the built environment 
could be enabled. Manufacture of aggregate and 
cement can be performed in a way that reduces 
CO2 requirements and curing can be carried out 
in such a way that extra CO2 is consumed.
•  Replacement of aggregate with mineral 
carbonation products 
Globally, around 40 billion tonnes of 
aggregate and sand is consumed by the 
construction industry211. Silicate minerals could 
be transformed into carbonate (see 2.9) and 
these used to replace conventional sources 
of aggregates. This process can provide 
future GGR only if the CO2 source in mineral 
carbonation is derived from the atmosphere. 
•   Carbonation curing 
Curing and ageing of cement reabsorbs 
a fraction of the CO2 emitted during its 
production. Concentrated streams of CO2 
(ca. 99%) can be used to speed up the 
curing process of concrete and achieve a 
higher strength material than normal moist 
curing212. This approach can be used for 
cast concrete products, which make up a 
relatively small fraction of concrete, but not 
for more widely used concrete produced 
on-site. This curing typically consumes 
less CO2 than is produced during the 
manufacture of Portland cement and so 
provides a reduction in net emissions, rather 
than net GGR. Novel approaches to cement 
production which capture the CO2 released 
could make this process net negative, as 
long as the CO2 was subsequently stored. 
•  Alternative cement production 
Portland cement is traditionally made 
by heating limestone to produce lime, a 
process that releases CO2. Alternative 
cement chemistries use magnesium 
oxide produced from silicate minerals and 
magnesium carbonates to reduce emission 
of CO2. Approaches for cement production 
from limestone that capture CO2 could also 
reduce emissions. While useful for limiting 
CO2 release, these approaches do not 
provide net GGR. 
Carbon dioxide
CHAPTER TWO
62 
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL
Technology readiness
There are a number of start-ups at various stages 
of technology readiness, including some that are 
now at commercial level, albeit at small scale. 
Mineral carbonation: the UK-based Carbon8 
processes hazardous waste produced 
from cleaning off-gases at municipal solid 
waste incinerators into aggregates. Excess 
unreacted lime in the solids used to clean the 
gases is carbonated to calcium carbonate, 
consuming CO2. The overall process is not 
net negative, because CO2 was emitted during 
the original lime manufacture, but serves to 
decrease emissions. 
Carbonation curing: the US-based Solidia 
Technologies uses alternative raw materials 
and carbonation curing to produce high 
strength materials with higher efficiency. 
Another company, Carbon Cure, retrofits their 
technology to conventional concrete plants to 
inject CO2 into the concrete mix. Until the lime 
used to make the cement in such processes 
is produced without CO2 emissions, these 
approaches are again not net negative.
Magnesium-based cements: Novacem was 
a company set up in the UK to pursue this 
approach, but failed due to the level of 
investment required and the commercial 
risks involved. There is little activity in this 
area at present.
Novel lime production: the start-up, Origen 
Power is pursuing an approach to lime 
production from limestone that produces a 
pure stream of CO2, making it easier to use 
or store. Future expansion of this approach to 
cement manufacture might enable CO2 curing 
of cement to become net negative.
Storage potential and longevity of storage
Carbonating steel slags and their use in cured 
concrete blocks could achieve GGR. Replacing 
all masonry blocks used in the US and Canada 
could sequester 12 MtCO2 pa213, with further 
gains if gas power were to be replaced by 
renewable energy. In the UK, laboratory-
based work suggests scope to sequester over 
0.2 MtCO2 pa in aggregate produced from 
waste materials214, though these could only 
be considered as providing net GGR if using 
existing wastes. Additional GGR would require 
carbonation of virgin silicate minerals. 
There is substantial capacity for changes in 
cement production to reduce CO2 emissions 
from this sector. These reductions would be 
valuable to meeting climate goals, but present 
technologies would only generate net GGR 
if remaining CO2 emissions are captured 
and stored. 
Resources required 
Substantial energy costs are incurred during 
grinding of virgin or industrial minerals for 
production of aggregates by carbonation. 
Transport costs can also be significant if raw 
materials are not located close to CO2 sources, 
as is the case for virgin feedstocks in the UK. 
Environmental benefits and challenges
The mining, processing, grinding, and transport 
of aggregates for mineral carbonation 
generates various environmental impacts, 
largely related to energy consumption. Life 
cycle assessment comparing CCS and mineral 
carbonation for European power generation 
suggests that, despite the net CO2 reduction 
potential, mineral carbonation may produce 
other environmental impacts and a higher 
cost of electricity that make it a potentially 
less attractive option than CCS alone215. 
CHAPTER TWO
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL 
63
There are environmental benefits if waste 
materials are consumed. For instance, air 
pollution control residues from municipal 
solid waste incineration are classified as a 
hazardous waste so their carbonation not 
only immobilises CO2 but also heavy metals, 
rendering them non-hazardous. 
Scalability and engineering challenges 
Supply of raw materials is a key challenge for 
scalability. Some of the highest-quality virgin 
feedstocks are geographically concentrated, 
resulting in high transport costs and potential 
socio-political complexities. Volumes of 
industrial feedstocks, notably coal ash and steel 
slag, are uncertain. Another challenge is the 
quality of aggregates made from carbonation in 
comparison to incumbent cement materials, and 
as such may only replace other aggregates in 
low-specification products. 
Costs for mineral carbonation aggregate 
systems are estimated at $50 to $300 per 
tCO2, depending on material and process 
specifications and the value of the end 
product216,217. 
Risks to implementation
Acceptability of low-carbon cements by 
customers as well as by incumbent producers 
in a notoriously conservative, low margin, 
high volume and highly standardised industry 
will be key218. Meeting regulatory standards 
on performance and compressive strength 
metrics will be challenging: historically, 
changes to regulatory frameworks can 
take decades to implement. 
Monitoring and evaluation
Reporting mechanisms exist for the 
environmental performance of building 
materials to monitor compliance with European 
sustainability standards. In the UK, the 
Construction Products Association represents 
manufacturers and suppliers of construction 
products and provides monitoring and 
evaluation data for the sector. This includes 
data on aggregates formed by carbonation, 
construction products cured using carbonation, 
use of magnesium-based cements and other 
technologies that alter CO2 emissions. For 
novel processes, such as new routes to lime 
production, monitoring of the effectiveness 
of long-term CO2 storage will be required to 
assess net GGR.
Social factors 
Public views of these methods may be affected 
by the quality and long-term durability of cement 
products and industry and government support. 
Policy factors 
As mentioned earlier, 60% of the infrastructure 
required by 2030 is still to be built219. Thus, 
there is an opportunity for low-carbon 
concrete to be used more widely in building 
this infrastructure. However, policy support, 
including an emphasis on proscriptive 
regulatory standards to performance-based 
standards to increase penetration of products, 
will likely be essential. 
CHAPTER TWO
64 
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL
2.13 Other GGR approaches 
 
A number of other GGR approaches have been 
proposed and a selection are discussed below. 
These techniques are not presently considered 
viable at large scale. Many are variants of 
methods discussed in preceding sections (see 
McLaren 2012220 for a more complete overview).
Cloud alkalinity
Amirova & Tulaikova (2015)221 propose adding 
an alkaline material to clouds, so that the water 
droplets absorb and neutralise extra CO2. This 
is closely related to ocean alkalinity, but would 
also incur the very high costs of airlifting the 
vast quantity of material needed.
Biomass burial
Several authors (for example, Strand & Benford 
2009222) have proposed near-permanent 
burial of biomass in terrestrial or deep ocean 
locations. This would compete with BECCS and 
biochar for plant material, but without offering 
the energy-production or nutrient-retention 
benefit of these approaches, and is therefore 
unlikely to see near-term application at scale. 
Some theoretical estimates have estimated 
such burial could operate at a scale of up to 
4 GtCO2 pa (in addition to burial through soil 
carbon sequestration described above). The 
security of storage is uncertain, but could be 
millennial in suitable reservoirs. However, ocean 
disposal would at present contravene the 
London Convention and Protocol.
Enhanced ocean up-welling
Enhancement of ocean up-welling to promote 
phytoplankton growth (by wave-driven 
pumps223) is a variant of ocean fertilisation that 
uses naturally-occurring rather than human-
supplied nutrients. While such methods might 
indeed enhance plant production224, they would 
not increase carbon sequestration225 because 
high nutrient ocean water also contains extra 
dissolved inorganic carbon (just enough to 
utilise the extra nutrients). 
Enhanced down-welling
The rate at which atmospheric carbon is transferred 
to the deep sea could plausibly also be enhanced 
by increasing down-welling. Pumping ocean water 
onto the surface of ice sheets would increase 
brine formation and encourage CO2 is transported 
downward by the overturning ocean circulation226. 
However, increasing down-welling by 1 million m3 
per second, which would be a very substantial 
engineering challenge, would increase ocean 
uptake of carbon by only about 0.04 GtCO2 pa.
DACCS by freezing
Agee et al (2013)227 have suggested cooling 
Antarctic air to condense, deposit and store solid 
CO2 ‘snow’, using electricity generated from 
strong local winds. The cost of cooling the very 
large volume of air involved to -140°C has not 
been estimated, but would likely be prohibitive 
even with very efficient heat exchangers.
Marine BECCS
N’Yeurt et al (2012)228 have proposed a variant 
of BECCS using fast-growing marine macro-
algae (kelp seaweeds). While this would avoid 
competition for land resources, it would either 
require large tethered floating structures in 
deep water, or place additional stress on coastal 
waters, which are already a limited and heavily 
utilised resource. Anaerobic digestion of algae for 
methane production is slow and would require 
capital investment for large processing plants, 
while aerobic combustion would require either 
low-carbon heat for drying, or large areas of 
land for air-drying. 
Electrochemical liming
Rau (2008)229 proposed a variant of enhanced 
weathering, using electrochemical splitting of 
seawater to dissolve limestone. This has been 
demonstrated in the laboratory, and some 
estimates of costs made230, with particular 
constraints associated with the capital cost 
of the plant and large supplies of low-carbon 
electricity required.
CHAPTER TWO
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL 
65
2.14 Removal of gases  
other than CO2
Consideration of GGR has focused 
overwhelmingly on CO2. Other gases with a 
significant role in global warming are methane, 
N2O, and several chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs). 
Both methane and N2O are present naturally 
in the atmosphere, but human activity is 
increasing their concentration. These are, by 
molecule, more powerful greenhouse gases 
than CO2, but are presently at much lower 
concentrations than CO2, making it more 
difficult to remove them. Their greater impact 
in absorbing energy, however, means that 
their removal could be as effective as that of 
CO2 per volume of air if an approach similar 
to DACCS could be developed. The length 
of time that a gas persists in the atmosphere 
is also of importance, for example N2O has 
a lifetime of about 100 years, whilst methane 
only persists 10 years. Action on either could 
be valuable, but would need to be sustained 
to achieve permanently lower atmospheric 
concentrations to be effective in achieving 
long-term climate influence. 
Some bacteria break down methane as their 
source of energy and carbon. Intentional 
use of such bacteria has been proposed to 
reduce methane emissions from landfill and 
sewage plants231. A similar approach might 
allow removal from the atmosphere, but has 
not been demonstrated at the low atmospheric 
concentration of methane.
In the presence of a relevant catalyst (for 
example, TiO2), both methane and N2O can 
be broken down by sunlight. However, contact 
with very large quantities of air (without using 
excessive energy) would be required to 
achieve a significant impact. Greenhouses 
with high chimneys that use solar energy to 
produce high volumes of hot air to pass over 
catalysts have been proposed as a way to 
encourage such breakdown232. However, 
while this approach is feasible in principle, 
it is entirely untested, and is likely to be 
challenging to engineer it to be effective at 
the low gas concentrations of the atmosphere. 
Such greenhouse plants would need to be 
located in sunny locations like deserts, but 
could also potentially produce electricity. At 
a smaller scale, clothing coated with TiO2 has 
been proposed as an approach to catalyse 
removal of methane from urban air233. 
CHAPTER TWO
66 
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL
Note: These figures are typically developed with a range of different assumptions and predictions and so are not 
necessarily directly comparable. They represent technical potentials and may not take social aspects of deployment into 
consideration. Removal potentials demonstrate year on year removals, but for the GGR methods that saturate this does 
not continue indefinitely. Costs variably represent actual, predicted or targeted values. All are presented rounded to 1 
significant figure to provide some guidance to order of magnitude expectations.
A summary of removal potentials and costs from the literature alongside technology readiness 
levels (TRLs) (either from the literature or expert assessment).
TABLE 2
GGR method
Global CO2 removal 
potential (GtCO2 pa)
Cost per tCO2 
(US$)
Technology 
readiness level (TRL)
Increased biological uptake
Afforestation, reforestation  
and forest management234,235,236
Afforestation/
reforestation
3 – 20 
forest management
1 – 2
3 – 30 
8 – 9
Wetland, peatland and coastal 
habitat restoration237
0.4 – 20
10 – 100
5 – 6
Soil carbon sequestration238,239
1 – 10 
10 profit – 3 cost
8 – 9
Biochar240,241,242
2 – 5 
 0 – 200
3 – 6
Bioenergy with carbon  
capture and storage243,244
10 
100 – 300
Bioenergy: 7 – 9
CCS: 4 – 7
Ocean fertilisation245,246
1 – 3 
10 – 500 
1 – 5
Building with biomass247
0.5 – 1 
0
8 – 9
Natural inorganic reactions
Enhanced terrestrial 
weathering248,249
0.5 – 4 
50 – 500
1 – 5
Mineral carbonation250
–
50 – 300 (ex situ) 
20 (in situ) 
3 – 8
Ocean alkalinity251,252
40 
70 - 200
2 – 4
Engineered removal
Direct air capture253,254,255
0.5 – 5 
200 – 600
(early stage) 
100 (longer term) 
4 – 7
Low-carbon concrete256,257,258
>0.1
50 – 300 
(mineral carbonation) 
6 – 7
There are 9 TRLs which describe the maturity of technology; TRL1 basic principles, TRL2 invention and research, TRL3 
proof of concept, TRL4 bench scale research, TRL5 pilot scale, TRL6 large scale, TRL7 inactive commissioning, TRL8 active 
commissioning and TRL9 operations. 
CHAPTER TWO
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL 
67
Chapter three
Cross-cutting issues
Left
Sky at dusk. © baona.
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL 
69
3.1 Introduction
The first part of this report considered individual 
GGR methods, but to meet the ambitious 
climate change targets set in the Paris 
Agreement, one method will not be sufficient 
and a suite of GGR methods will be required.
The following section, based largely on expert 
views of working group members and others 
consulted in writing this report, discusses a 
range of cross-cutting issues, which must be 
considered in implementing a suite of methods 
to maximise GGR potential while minimising 
adverse consequences. 
These issues are grouped into seven 
categories: resources, storage, environment, 
science and technology, economics, legislation 
and social.
Image
Saltmarsh in Scotland.
© Kloeg008.
CHAPTER THREE
70 
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL
3.2 Resources
GGR is, in essence, the ‘unmixing’ of a 
greenhouse gas from the atmosphere. This 
process requires work, which is manifested 
in the use of resources such as energy, land, 
water, nutrients and geological storage. 
Even where GGR occurs ‘naturally’, as in 
photosynthesis in plants, significant resources 
are required to achieve appreciable additional 
sequestration levels, and to prevent carbon 
release once stored.
As a result, different GGR methods may be 
applicable in different geographies depending 
upon local circumstances and resource 
availability. Each resource that could be used 
for GGR may not then be used for other 
activities, for example farming, and so these 
issues should also be considered within a 
broader sustainable development context.
Multiple GGR methods often compete for 
the same resources. As such, the maximum 
removals of each technology cannot merely be 
added to give the maximum of the system. For 
example, BECCS and forestation may compete 
for land, nutrients and water, while BECCS and 
biochar may compete for biomass feedstock. 
Which method is deployed in each case will 
then depend on a number of the cross-cutting 
issues considered here.
Land
Many GGR methods have a significant 
requirement for land. In some cases, they 
can be co-deployed with each other or 
other activities (for example, enhanced 
weathering, soil carbon sequestration and 
food production), but in others they clash 
(for example, forestation and BECCS, which 
can compete with each other and with food 
production). At the upper end of estimates 
for land requirements for forestation, an 
equivalent to twice the world’s currently 
cultivated land would be required. Reaching 
a cumulative removal of 810 GtCO2 by 
forestation would require 2600 Mha of land 
globally (c. 100 times the land area of the 
UK), leading to predicted increase in food 
prices of about 80% by 2050 and a more 
than fourfold increase by 2100259. Land use 
is an important consideration in comparing 
BECCS and DACCS for example. BECCS 
requires significant land area, while DACCS 
has a negligible land footprint. However, to 
maximise the GGR potential of DACCS, the 
large energy requirements would need to be 
met by renewables, such as land-based wind 
or solar, where the land requirements could 
again become significant.
 
CHAPTER THREE
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL 
71
0
1 - 211
212 - 758
759 - 1749
1750 - 3000
3001 - 7700
No Mitigation (Boreal Zone)
Reforestation Extent
kgCO2e ha-1 yr-1
352
359
386
1259
1552
520
208
176
518
296
309
238
186
189
212
Reforestation
A
159 - 170
171 - 468
469 - 1160
1161 - 1680
1681 - 2930
Not included in analysis
kgCO2e ha-1 yr-1
269
515
1155
69
332
315
263
503
183
Avoided Forest Conversion
B
0
1 - 25
26 - 79
80 - 141
142 - 523
524 - 1012
Unknown
kgCO2e ha-1 yr-1
245
35
66
60
121
128
43
46
55
52
24
29
26
80
26
Natural Forest Management
C
0
9
10 - 17
18 - 39
40 - 54
55 - 59
kgCO2e ha-1 yr-1
26
169
83
30
8
131
Improved Plantations
D
Numbers assigned to countries or regions indicate total TgCO2e yr-1
Raw materials
A major constraint on the implementation of 
many GGR methods is the availability of raw 
materials: BECCS and biochar require biomass 
feedstock; ocean alkalinity, mineral carbonation 
and enhanced terrestrial weathering require a 
supply of appropriate minerals. 
In some cases these needs can be met through 
waste materials, however much present-day 
waste already has some economic use260. 
The benefits of waste utilisation will change 
as manufacturing processes evolve. 
In cases where there are high levels of 
demand for raw materials, and in almost 
all scenarios for BECCS, virgin material is 
required. Mining of new minerals or growth 
of energy crops can put pressure on other 
systems. Generally, the natural distribution 
of material inputs, or land for crop growth may 
place geographical constraints on technology 
location. If there is a reliance on the import of 
materials, emissions from transport would be 
significant; so it is important to consider the 
whole life cycle of technologies. 
Methods such as forestation, some soil carbon 
sequestration techniques, BECCS and ocean 
fertilisation have significant requirements for 
nitrogen or phosphate fertilisers261,262. If the 
net effect is an increase in global fertiliser 
demand, this will have knock on effects due 
not only to production emissions, but also on 
the cost of fertilisers and their use in other key 
industries, such as food production. Enhanced 
weathering, on the other hand, may have soil 
fertility benefits that could reduce the amount 
of fertiliser required for agricultural land263.
Distribution of potential GGR by reforestation by country.
FIGURE 4
Source: From Griscom et al. 2017.
KEY
Reforestation extent kgCO2 e ha-1 yr-1
0
1 – 211
212 – 758
759 –1,749
1,750 – 3,000
3,001 – 7,700
No mitigation (Boreal zone)
CHAPTER THREE
72 
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL
Energy
Many GGR methods require energy in different 
parts of the life cycle. Where minerals are 
utilised, they first must be mined, crushed and 
refined (where relevant); distribution of materials 
across land or ocean requires fuel; and DACCS 
may require energy to drive fans or to provide 
the heat for regeneration of the capture 
medium. The emissions associated with energy 
generation must be factored into the life cycle 
consideration of each of the methods. 
Methods with high energy requirements, 
such as DACCS, may become more viable 
as the energy system is decarbonised as 
their net GGR would be greater, though 
at large scale this could place significant 
additional burden on national energy demand. 
Similarly, while technologies such as biochar 
or BECCS can generate energy, they too 
will impact energy markets and may have 
unintended consequences.
Water
GGR methods that require the growth of 
biomass (forestry, BECCS, biochar), enhanced 
weathering and DACCS all place some 
requirement on water supplies. The most 
significant demand per tonne CO2 removed is 
that of BECCS, which would require c. 5 km3 
water to remove 1 GtCO2. When compared 
to total global renewable freshwater supply 
on land (110,000 km3 pa) or current human 
usage (25,000 km3 pa), it is clear that water 
availability should not provide a global 
constraint, but may do when considered 
within an individual location.
Trade-offs
The availability of resources may prove 
important in balancing other trade-offs of 
deployment of one method over another. For 
example, different forms of DACCS use different 
regeneration steps and technology could be 
selected depending upon the availability of 
water and low- or high-grade heat.
Trade-offs will also occur between resources, 
cost, social impact and other factors. 
For example growing biomass in highly 
productive regions further from points of 
demand will reduce land requirements, but 
increase transport energy and costs. These 
considerations are best explored using 
system-wide life cycle models that account 
for resource requirements and constraints.
CHAPTER THREE
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL 
73
3.3 Storage
Once removed from the atmosphere, CO2 
must also be stored. Different GGR methods 
can be distinguished between those with built-
in storage, for example forestation and soil 
carbon sequestration, and those that require a 
separate activity to store the CO2, for example 
BECCS and DACCS (see Table 1).
For the former, the amount and longevity of 
CO2 stored are determined by the nature 
of the method. Typically, these are time 
dependent and often require continued 
maintenance. For the methods with no 
inherent storage, the scale and longevity are 
dependent explicitly on a separate storage 
solution, such as CCS, building materials and 
mineral carbonation. These two groups are 
discussed below with respect to their storage 
potential and constraints.
GGR methods with built-in storage
Storage of carbon in the natural environment 
has the lowest permanence, can saturate 
beyond a certain point and is vulnerable to 
reversal. Forestation, soil carbon sequestration 
and habitat restoration, for example, use 
biological methods to increase the storage 
of carbon in the natural environment. All three 
reach a point of saturation on the order of 10 
to 100 years, beyond which continued action 
is needed to ensure carbon remains stored. 
All three are vulnerable to reversal through 
human action (for example, deforestation), 
fire or disease. In the case of forestation, 
continued sequestration could be enabled 
by managed use of biomass (for buildings 
or in BECCS) and replanting.
Biochar and enhanced terrestrial weathering 
store carbon in soils in a (potentially) more 
stable form than soil organic matter and may 
take longer to reach saturation. Little is known 
about the longevity of carbon storage in soil 
biochar, although some work suggests it 
can persist on a centennial scale. Enhanced 
terrestrial weathering can store carbon for 
centuries to millennia. Significant precipitation 
of carbonate minerals in soil could reduce the 
storage potential, but this would be avoided 
if the products of enhanced weathering were 
transferred into the ocean.
Ocean alkalinity and fertilisation have the 
potential for large and almost indefinite 
storage of carbon in the ocean (the latter only 
if the carbon is transported to the deep ocean 
sediments), but neither has been tested in the 
field and significant uncertainty remains.
GGR methods without built-in storage
A number of GGR methods involve removal 
and storage as separate activities. The storage 
mechanism used plays a significant role in 
determining the cost, scale and permanence 
of the approach as a whole.
GGR methods which produce a pure, or 
nearly pure stream of CO2 (BECCS, DACCS) 
require additional storage: in sub-surface 
sediments (as in conventional CCS), through 
mineral carbonation, as bicarbonate ion in the 
ocean, or potentially as CO2 liquid in the deep 
ocean264. In a future world with CCS power 
generation could produce greater volumes of 
CO2 than captured in GGR, and so may drive 
storage requirements. 
CHAPTER THREE
74 
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL
Sub-surface storage in sedimentary rocks 
is the most widely discussed option owing 
to previous experience by the oil and gas 
industry. For the UK, the total offshore storage 
potential related to depleted oil and gas fields 
is verified at 1 GtCO2
265. However, it is believed 
that the actual storage potential could be much 
greater, possibly around 20 GtCO2
266. The CO2 
could be stored in geological deposits for a 
very long time (millennia or longer). However, 
leakage remains a concern and can range from 
0.00001% to 1%, depending on the permeability 
of the geological structure and its faults or 
defects267. The main constraints for deployment 
of this conventional storage route include 
storage efficiency, transport infrastructure, 
energy penalties and high costs.
Mineral carbonation of surface (ex situ) and 
subsurface (in situ) silicate rocks, such as 
basalt, is yet to be tested on a large scale, but 
the latter has been successfully demonstrated 
at small scale in Iceland. Ex situ carbonation 
is constrained by land requirement due to 
the need storage of the carbonated product, 
where such product is not put to secondary 
use. Carbonate minerals are stable and 
represent perhaps the most secure CO2 
storage option.
Reaction of CO2 gas with limestone and 
disposal of the resulting products in the 
oceans may also be a viable and stable 
long-term store of captured CO2 (see 2.10), 
though research into the stability and the 
environmental consequences is required, 
and there are substantial water requirements. 
Estimate of the geological storage potential of CO2 for sedimentary basins of the world.
FIGURE 5
Source: Adapted from Bradshaw and Dance 2005 doi:10.1016/B978-008044704-9/50059-8
KEY
Highly prospective
Prospective
Non prospective
3,000
Kilometers
CHAPTER THREE
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL 
75
Deep ocean storage of CO2 as a liquid 
is a subject of ongoing research and is 
theoretically possible268. However, at present 
the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea 
(UNCLOS) prohibits direct disposal in the water 
column of the high seas (rather than in the sea 
bed or subsurface sediments). This storage 
route also has significant issues relating to 
environmental and societal concern.
Secondary storage
In some cases, the longevity of storage of 
CO2 from GGR can be increased with the 
addition of an extra step. Most notably, 
with forestation, trees could be used as 
biomass for BECCS, or as building materials. 
In the latter case, carbon storage lifetime is 
increased by the lifetime of the buildings and 
wood products and could provide added 
benefit by avoiding emissions from production 
of steel or concrete. Reusing and recycling 
materials at end of a building’s life would again 
increase the longevity of storage but this will 
be constrained by contamination from fire-
proofing. Another option would be recovery 
of energy from these materials combined 
with CCS (like BECCS), although this would 
be difficult to achieve at scale. Full life cycle 
assessments will be required to determine 
the impacts of these activities.
Right
Timber framed housing.  
© fstop123.
CHAPTER THREE
76 
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL
3.4 Environment
Impacts on biodiversity
Many GGR methods have the potential to 
have significant impacts on biodiversity, 
especially when applied at scales necessary 
for meaningful removal. These will depend 
upon how and where deployment occurs but 
could be positive or neutral or detrimental 
to biodiversity. Soil carbon sequestration is 
likely to be beneficial or have neutral impact, 
BECCS is likely to have a negative impact and 
the impact of forestation will vary strongly with 
location. For BECCS in particular, the areas 
of highest potential bioenergy yield overlap 
significantly with current, and likely future, 
protected areas, signifying potential conflicts 
between biomass growth and biodiversity. 
Widespread implementation of BECCS would 
be expected to have a significant impact on 
biosphere integrity (see Figure 6).
 
Other greenhouse gases
As well as removing CO2 from the atmosphere, 
a number of GGR technologies have either 
positive or negative effect on emissions 
of other greenhouse gases. Many of the 
technologies that involve the natural 
environment affect systems that are either 
sources or sinks for N2O and methane. Where 
and how these changes take place will 
determine the broader impacts. For example, 
adding biochar to rice paddy soils sequesters 
CO2 while significantly increasing methane 
emissions and decreasing N2O emissions. 
Application to pasture systems shows the 
opposite effect (increased N2O; decreased 
methane). Some other applications have no 
effect on release of these gases.
Accurate quantification of greenhouse gas 
fluxes over large areas is challenging and 
requires sophisticated soil and gas sampling. 
Full life cycle assessment of the impact of 
other greenhouse gases as a result of GGR 
has yet to completed.
Other pollutants
Many GGR methods release pollutants either 
directly through their application, or due to 
the raw materials, infrastructure and transport 
associated with their application. Enhanced 
weathering and ocean alkalinity both rely 
on adding minerals to the environment and, 
because these minerals are not pure, addition 
of impurities may release elements that are 
toxic into soil, surface waters, or the ocean. 
Production of raw materials also has potential 
for release of pollutants through, for example, 
mining of silicates for enhanced weathering, 
or chemical manufacture for DACCS. Transport 
is one of today’s largest pollution sources 
and is involved in nearly all GGR methods for 
movement of raw material and for distribution 
of materials or products. The environmental 
consequences of this increase in transport 
will need to be assessed, in addition to the 
additional emissions, to determine the overall 
effectiveness of each method. 
CHAPTER THREE
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL 
77
Nutrient cycles
GGR approaches that alter biological systems 
on land or in the ocean will inevitably alter 
the cycles of nutrients, such as nitrate and 
phosphate (and, in the oceans, iron), often 
intentionally by addition of fertiliser, but 
also unintentionally. The environmental 
consequence of the changes in nutrient 
cycles that would result from large scale 
pursuit of GGR are not yet well understood, 
but could be widespread and profound, and 
need further study.
Other climate-related impacts
The implementation of some GGRs can have 
the effect of brightening or darkening the 
surface of the Earth, and therefore affecting 
how well sunlight is reflected or absorbed 
(albedo). The overall impact of each GGR 
method depends upon the initial state. If plants 
are grown on dark ground, for example, during 
restoration of wetlands or forestation in tropical 
areas, the effect of the relevant GGR may be 
increased reflectivity and reduced warming. 
Where the ground is darkened, as by the 
application of biochar to soils or agroforestry 
on snow-covered boreal land, reflectivity is 
reduced and would cause additional warming. 
Application of GGR methods can also impact 
rainfall, surface roughness, and the efficiency of 
water flow onto the ground. As well as impacts 
on the wider environment, these effects can 
have a net warming or cooling effect.
Impact of biodiversity conservation for biomass production.
FIGURE 6
Source: From Heck et al 2018.
20
25
0
1
50
0 0
12.5
25
37.5
50
Biosphere integrity
[% BII loss]
Biogeochemical flows
[TgN/a]
310
155
77.5
0
Below boundary (safe)
In zone of uncertainty (increasing 
Land system cha
KEY
Below boundary (safe)
In zone of uncertainty (increasing risk)
Beyond zone of uncertainty (high risk)
CHAPTER THREE
78 
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL
3.5 Science and technology
Most proposed GGR methods require 
additional scientific and technological research 
and development (R&D) before they could be 
implemented at a significant scale. In some 
cases this requirement may be the issue 
limiting their application. The main areas 
of concern, and the methods affected, are 
discussed below.
Scientific and technological feasibility and 
effectiveness
For some methods, there remains significant 
uncertainty as to whether they would actually 
work in practice as intended, or be sufficiently 
effective at net removal of greenhouse gases. 
Addressing this issue may require anything 
from fundamental scientific investigations, 
through bench, pilot and demonstration scale 
development and testing. This is a particular 
concern for those methods in which the 
rates of the basic processes involved are not 
yet well-established under field conditions, 
notably, enhanced terrestrial weathering, 
ocean alkalinity addition, mineral carbonation 
and enhanced ocean productivity. For most 
other methods, further work is required 
to bring the technology to full operational 
readiness or optimise operating conditions.
Cost
For the technologies where costs remain high 
or uncertain, there needs to be dedicated 
work on cost estimation from demonstration-
scale activities and further technological 
development to reduce costs. Uncertainty 
in costs often relates to uncertainty in the 
effectiveness of a method. Costs for most 
terrestrial biomass-based methods, and those 
involving the built environment, are likely to be 
lower, making cost-uncertainty less challenging 
for these methods.
Scalability
Methods, such as forestation and habitat 
restoration, are inherently constrained by 
the availability of suitable land and potential 
saturation of the storage capacity. R&D may be 
required to maximise scalability in these cases. 
In other cases, the potential scale is as yet 
uncertain and needs to be ascertained. There 
is a need for larger scale demonstrators to 
understand the actual potential for DACCS and 
the most effective mechanism for CO2 capture. 
Present calculations for scalability of enhanced 
terrestrial weathering rely on the availability 
of waste materials rather than a robust 
understanding of the process in situ. Similarly, 
scalability evaluations of ocean alkalinity are 
based on poorly constrained assumptions 
about the response of ocean ecosystems.
Security and permanence of storage
GGR pathways that store carbon as 
impermanent organic materials with sub-
centennial and uncertain lifetimes may prove 
ineffective without appropriate management. 
The lifetimes under practically achievable 
management regimes therefore need to be 
determined, and will be a major constraint 
on their utility, since long-term climate 
amelioration relies on removal of CO2 for at 
least several centuries. This is of much less 
concern where the lifetime of the carbon 
storage is inherently long, as it is for ocean 
alkalinity and mineral carbonation. For most 
other methods, the lifetimes are expected 
to be adequate, but need to be more 
firmly established.
CHAPTER THREE
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL 
79
Verification and monitoring
Widespread deployment of GGR techniques 
will require monitoring, verification (and 
in some cases certification) of carbon 
removed. For some methods such as mineral 
carbonation and building with biomass, the 
carbon stored is a tangible product that is 
easily measured and does not require periodic 
monitoring. In others, where the product is an 
enhanced carbon content of an environmental 
reservoir (for example in soil or wetlands), 
establishing the amount of carbon removed 
and stored with the necessary precision, and 
verifying that it remains secure, will represent a 
major technological challenge. In some cases, 
this may even be a limiting constraint. 
Environmental impacts
The environmental impacts, including those 
of scaling, will need to be determined for all 
GGR methods, though the level of uncertainty 
required varies. For ocean fertilisation in 
particular, where a major modification of 
an ecosystem is required to effect a small 
removal of CO2, much improved ecosystem 
modelling capabilities would be required 
before deployment. 
Right
Real time monitoring of 
ecosystem gas exchange 
over a land-use transition 
from grassland to Miscanthus 
bioenergy in mid-Wales. 
Ultrasound and near infra-
red sensors being used 
in the eddy covariance 
technique to image wind 
structures moving across 
the canopy. These rotating 
eddy currents are the 
primary mechanism for the 
exchange of carbon and 
water between the land 
and atmosphere. 
© Jon McCalmont.
CHAPTER THREE
80 
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL
3.6 Economics
Economic considerations relating to 
GGR methods range from the beneficial 
establishment and reinforcement of new 
technologies and markets, through to 
exacerbation of existing market failures 
and misallocation of resources. This section 
considers six economic factors that could 
have a material impact on the pace and 
scale of the deployment of GGR methods.
Carbon prices
Carbon prices are important for GGR because, 
if designed appropriately, they can provide 
an economic reward for both mitigation of 
emissions and for GGR. Carbon pricing has 
been spreading around the world, with most 
recent estimates suggesting that 15% of global 
emissions is now covered by some kind of 
explicit carbon price, established through 
taxation, cap and trade, or some combination 
of the two269.
With some notable exceptions like Sweden 
and Finland, these carbon prices are much 
too low to incentivise the scale of emissions 
reduction implied by the Paris Agreement. 
The Stern-Stiglitz High-Level Commission on 
Carbon Prices suggested an appropriate range 
would be $40 to $80 per tCO2 for 2020 and 
$50 to $100 per tCO2 for 2030270, and other 
work suggests that the social cost of carbon is 
already well over $100 per tCO2
271. However, 
the vast majority of carbon prices today are 
well below that range. The UK carbon price 
floor stands at £18 per tCO2 (c. $25), for 
instance. The key carbon price in Europe – 
the European Allowance price under the EU 
Emissions Trading Scheme – has been around 
$10 per tCO2 for many years. Some prices 
in other countries are closer to $1 per tCO2. 
Prices vary between countries as a result of 
differences in public and political attitudes and 
policy approaches towards climate change.
Many GGR technologies could be 
economically profitable with carbon prices 
in the 2030 recommended range of $50 
to $100 per tCO2. At $1 to $10 per tCO2, 
most are not profitable without other (non-
price) interventions from government. While 
carbon prices remain heterogeneous and 
patchy, there is some evidence that they 
are spreading in coverage and that there is 
willingness from policymakers to gradually 
increase such prices over time272.
While incentives are likely to be required for 
GGR, these could be provided either by public 
subsidy or the private sector. For instance, if 
a mandatory sequestration obligation were 
imposed upon all extractors of carbon, the costs 
of removal would be passed through the supply 
chain and borne ultimately by the users of fossil 
fuels and the shareholders of fossil fuel firms. 
If public subsidy is provided, it could either be 
provided from earmarked carbon tax revenues, 
or general revenue. While the former is often 
intuitively and politically appealing, finance 
ministries and treasuries tend to be opposed 
as the revenue generated from any particular 
tax does not necessarily logically map onto the 
appropriate level of spending in the same area. 
For example, as carbon emissions are reduced, 
the income from an emissions tax could drop, 
while GGR levels would need to be maintained 
or even raised.
CHAPTER THREE
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL 
81
Regulatory instruments
It should be noted, however, that carbon 
pricing is not the only possible government 
initiative to incentivise removals. Other 
mechanisms are a necessary part of the 
policy portfolio. These may be motivated by 
associated market failures or designed to 
complement carbon prices that are incomplete 
in coverage or at levels below the social 
optimum273. For instance, in the building sector, 
building regulation standards could permit 
or even encourage building with biomass or 
low-carbon concrete. In the energy sector, an 
obligation could be imposed upon companies 
extracting fossil fuels to sequester some 
proportion of the carbon extracted274. This 
could serve to ensure more level incentives 
at the margin for GGR and to pump-prime the 
CCS market, overcoming ‘first of a kind’ costs 
and investment hold-up problems. 
Support for technological progress
Many of the GGR technologies under 
consideration still need to decrease in price, 
through additional research, economies of scale 
and learning by doing. Such processes take 
time and cost money. How society chooses to 
allocate its resources to supporting research, 
development and demonstration, can have a 
material impact on the pace and effectiveness 
of technology cost reductions. The ‘Mission 
Innovation’ agreement in Paris to double public 
spending on clean energy technologies could 
have a significant impact on cost reductions, 
but such resources should be spent wisely275. 
The UK and other countries remain committed 
to doubling spending, some of which will be 
directed to GGR-related technologies.
‘Leakage’ from GGR technologies
Efforts to deploy GGR technologies can 
be economically and environmentally 
counterproductive if spatial and temporal 
‘leakage’ effects are not considered.
Spatial leakage describes situations where 
efforts to deliver a desirable economic 
outcome in one location result in an 
unintended and undesirable economic 
outcome in another location. For instance, 
indirect land-use change can involve spatial 
leakage – efforts to increase or protect forests 
in one location, without measures to meet 
demand for crops or ranching for meat, may 
push up crop and meat prices, increasing 
deforestation in another location. Spatial 
leakage effects of bioenergy on fuel prices 
are potentially large276. 
Temporal leakage occurs when efforts 
to remove greenhouse gases from the 
atmosphere only delay, rather than permanently 
solve, the problem at hand. This delay may 
nevertheless be valuable. For instance, 
building with biomass delays the return of CO2 
sequestered in the biomass to the atmosphere 
by the difference between the lifespan of the 
standing stock of forest and the lifespan of the 
harvested stock, plus the life of the biomass 
building product – which in some cases can 
be decades. This is a different effect to the 
displacement effect of building with biomass 
rather than with traditional cement, which 
reduces emissions now.
CHAPTER THREE
82 
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL
Social opportunity costs
The economic resources (traditionally known 
as the ‘factors of production’) required to 
create the goods and services required for a 
particular GGR method – physical resources, 
labour, capital and entrepreneurship – each 
have potential alternative uses. Some of these 
uses may be in different GGR pathways, other 
alternative uses are in the broader economy. 
Understanding the full social opportunity cost 
of developing GGR methods is important to 
delivering sensible outcomes. If the market-
based prices of such resources are equal to 
the social costs, then this is not an issue of 
concern from an economic perspective. 
Labour requirements and jobs – the labour 
and capital intensity of GGR methods can 
differ both between methods and over the 
lifetime of a GGR project. Methods, such 
as forestation and BECCS, have significant 
ongoing costs in the form of monitoring and 
verification requirements. The capacity of local 
labour markets and the ability and appetite 
of relevant financing systems to cover capital 
and operating requirements are relevant 
considerations. In areas where unemployment 
and job creation is a priority, approaches that 
have a higher labour-to-capital ratio may be 
politically preferable.
Supply-chain management – finally, the 
co-deployment of GGR methods may have 
significant effects on the distribution of 
economic profit over time within the whole 
system, as various elements of the supply 
chain are likely to become scarce at different 
points in time. For instance, at one point during 
the scale-up of offshore wind, there was 
such a scarcity of marine vessels able to take 
the structures to their intended location that 
supernormal profits accrued, increasing costs 
along the entire offshore wind supply chain. 
One could imagine similar effects with the 
scale-up of forestation, bioenergy plantations, 
and the use of biomass in buildings together. 
Periods of very high wood prices may occur, 
as shortages arise on the supply side, followed 
by potential of surplus wood leading to wood 
product prices falling, reducing income for 
smallholder producers. Achieving a relatively 
smooth coordination of scaling up activities 
across a long supply chain requires careful 
planning and investment.
Financing GGR
The financing need for GGR is likely to be 
very large, potentially cumulatively in the 
USD trillions by 2100.  If capital markets are 
functioning correctly, GGR activities will be 
financed if they come with an attractive risk-
adjusted return. This could be encouraged 
through the implementation of policies 
designed to reduce risk of investment for the 
private sector and provide appropriate returns 
through economic incentives. Given the short 
timeframe on which deployment is required, 
governments may choose to directly intervene 
in markets. This might alleviate the high costs 
associated with ‘first of a kind’ activities, while 
building experience in the sector and enabling 
any associated economic spillovers.
CHAPTER THREE
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL 
83
3.7 Legislation
Reporting within international frameworks
A constraint on delivery of GGR is the difficulty 
of monitoring its effectiveness in a transparent 
and consistent way. 
Guidelines from the United Nations Framework 
Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) 
request that nations report greenhouse gas 
from human activity in national greenhouse 
gas inventories. National reporting is 
subject to an international review process 
to ensure credible measurement, reporting 
and verification of greenhouse gas flux, with 
guidelines developed by the IPCC. Guidelines 
for reporting of emissions were first applied to 
monitor greenhouse gas inventories following 
the Kyoto protocol in 1997, and have been 
refined continually since. 
Reporting guidelines for removals of 
greenhouse gas are significantly less well 
developed than those for emissions. Most 
land-based GGR (forestation, wetland 
restoration, and soil carbon sequestration) 
is included in existing reporting, but other 
GGR methods are not. Reporting of GGR in 
the land sector is difficult and subject to high 
uncertainty because the land is simultaneously 
a source and sink of greenhouse gases due 
to both natural and anthropogenic processes 
that are hard to disentangle. Other issues 
include assuring additionality (proving the 
activity is additional to what was happening 
anyway), permanence (risk of future loss of 
stores due to natural disturbance or harvest), 
and indirect land use change (whereby an 
activity such as forestation on pasture land 
may displace the pasture activity elsewhere). 
Similar difficulties will be encountered in 
establishing appropriate reporting guidelines 
for other GGR methods. To be rigorous, these 
reporting guidelines will need to be based on 
the best available science, be specific to each 
GGR methodology, and include a level of detail 
comparable to those for other processes, such 
as agricultural emissions. 
Reporting guidelines will also need to deal 
with long-term risks, including the permanence 
of storage. GGR methods have multiple risks 
that may differ in the short and long term (for 
example leakages and process reversals), so 
management of these risks on an extended 
timescale will be required. 
Separation of emissions and removals in 
greenhouse gas reporting is important because 
the risks associated with emitting and then 
removing and storing CO2 are not the same 
as if no emissions occurred at all and will vary 
depending upon the technologies employed. 
Additional difference will exist if different 
greenhouse gases are emitted and stored and, 
more generally, the uncertainties associated 
with reporting of both emissions and removals 
would need to be considered. 
Although the Paris Agreement is not legally 
binding, a large and increasing number of 
countries have set in place national legislations 
that ensure their own commitments have 
legal structures. In the UK, the 2008 Climate 
Change Act provides a legal basis for the 
UK’s emissions reductions and its contribution 
to international frameworks. In China, 
international commitments are integrated in 
their national five-year plans, which form the 
basis of much of China’s socio-economic 
decisions. Increasingly formal legislative 
frameworks mean that there are procedures 
in place in case of litigation, at least at the 
national level, which enhances the chances of 
success for any climate actions, including GGR. 
Sustainability, regulation and equity
The Paris Agreement includes specific 
recognition of the central role of sustainability 
and equity. The governance of GGRs is an 
issue of increasing focus, in particular where 
there is demand for large areas of land 
and resources and ensuring regulation of 
sustainability beyond the direct CO2 removal 
is an important issue. For example, the 
CHAPTER THREE
84 
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL
sustainability of biomass production is critical 
for the successful application of BECCS. 
If biomass is produced in unsustainable 
ways, for example by cutting existing forests 
to produce wood pellets, then emissions 
created in production of that biomass may 
reduce or completely cancel CO2 removal 
during subsequent production of energy and 
CCS.  As the demand for biomass and timber 
for GGR grows, regulation of sustainability 
becomes an international challenge, 
with environmental standards and social 
safeguards, as well as emissions reporting 
standards, varying between the country that 
produces the biomass and the country that 
will import and benefit from it. 
Equity in burden sharing for emission 
reductions is a highly debated and sensitive 
issue in the negotiations, along with financing. 
At present, the UK operates under the broad 
principle that its emissions should be no more 
than the global average per-capita emissions 
by 2050. However, the fair responsibility for 
GGR of the most developed nations could 
be considered to be higher, to compensate 
for historic emissions and for developing 
countries’ limited capacity both economically 
and technologically. Such issues of equity are 
at the heart of the Talanoa Dialogue of the 
Paris Agreement, which will guide the ‘Paris 
rule book’ that will regulate the agreement in 
the future. 
Verification and confrontation with Earth 
observations and expected pathways
Countries currently apply their own accounting 
rules in their nationally determined contributions 
(NDCs), which raises issues for transparency, 
comparability and credibility. National emissions 
and removals are not routinely independently 
verified, but this could be undertaken through 
earth system observations of atmospheric CO2 
concentrations277 and tracking of progress with 
respect to expected pathways278. Effective 
reporting of GGRs may require implementation 
of this more rigorous regime.
Independent verification by Earth observation 
is currently challenging, both for technical 
and governance reasons. Emissions reporting 
guidelines for land-based emissions and 
removals include both the deliberate emissions 
(e.g. deforestation) and natural carbon sinks 
from managed land, but do not include the 
physical location and limits of that managed 
land. Therefore, insufficient information is 
provided to compare reported emissions and 
removals with independent estimates from 
scientific understanding and data. 
Tracking GGR with respect to expected 
pathways also requires that the protocols 
and practices for reporting GGR be revised in 
integrated assessment models. For example, 
for BECCS, at present models would account 
for the biomass energy emissions under 
‘agriculture, forestry and other land use’, but 
the bioenergy is reported under process 
emissions, providing a fragmented picture 
of the real effect of BECCS, reflecting what 
happens in the UNFCCC reporting279. 
Improving NDCs
The Paris agreement includes a five-yearly 
assessment; the Global Stocktake. A key 
element of this Global Stocktake is to 
support more detailed and more ambitious 
NDCs, which are also to be revised every 
five years through a ratchet mechanism 
that will strengthen pledges through time. 
To support effective submissions of NDCs, 
and identification of appropriate additional 
activities, there needs to be information 
that is detailed and consistent enough on 
different mitigation activities, including GGR. 
This includes the effects of policies and 
measures on the outcomes, the management 
of co-benefits and risks, and the combined 
effectiveness of the GGR as global measures. 
CHAPTER THREE
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL 
85
3.8 Social aspects 
Social impacts on GGRs
Society, through organisations, interests and 
communities, relates to new technologies 
in complex ways. For example, it provides 
the expertise, finance and regulations that 
would make GGR possible, but it may also 
impose constraints on GGR development and 
deployment. Societal opposition, or insufficient 
social support could limit the deployment 
of technologies, but in cases where GGR 
development might conflict with other priorities 
and concerns, including the risk of deterring 
mitigation efforts, there is also a risk of too little 
social constraint280. This section focuses on 
public acceptance issues, and so touches on 
issues of ethics and governance but does not 
discuss these in great detail. 
Society does not just plainly approve or 
disapprove each GGR method, but more subtly 
shapes the form of those methods. It influences 
where each GGR method can be deployed, 
how they can be designed, and what counts 
as good performance281. 
Furthermore, society responds not just to 
the technology as a material configuration, 
but the way prospective future technologies 
are thought and talked about has an impact 
in the present282. The existence of potential 
GGR methods for use in response to climate 
change can impact on policy, and there is 
ongoing debate about whether it will deter 
mitigation efforts. It is in this context that 
societal responses to GGRs and any resultant 
constraints should be considered.
Public perceptions and the role of policy
The perceptions of the general public matter 
for what is politically desirable and acceptable, 
although policies are substantially influenced by 
many other things, such as economic interests. 
Societal support for GGR is dependent on what 
deployment implies in terms of sustaining our 
fossil fuel dependence, incurring additional 
expenses and costs, and opening up new 
avenues for profitable investments283. In the case 
of CCS for fossil-fuel energy, the expectation of 
future technology deployment helped sustain 
climate policies that were dependent on that 
technology, but CCS has not yet reached (and 
may not reach) a sufficient level to justify these 
policies284. There is a risk that GGR is facing a 
similar future, entailing more talk than action, 
especially given the debate about whether it has 
been over-promised in climate modelling285,286.
What influences public reaction to GGR?
Local communities may support or resist 
individual deployment projects on the basis 
of many different factors including their 
attachment to local landscapes, experience of 
the project-owning organisations, the decision-
making process including any consultations, 
the distribution of benefits, costs and any 
compensation287,288. Location choice and 
design details matter, but so do ownership 
and governance models. In public deliberation 
exercises, topics of fairness and equity tend 
to arise repeatedly, with people reacting 
negatively to proposals that are perceived to 
entail unfair distribution of risks and benefits. 
Reactions are also dependent on levels of 
trust in the actors and processes involved. 
The controversy over genetically modified food 
may provide important lessons for GGRs, for 
example if people feel that solutions are being 
‘imposed’ on them from above, or that solutions 
are being primarily driven by a profit motive. 
Public reactions will also be driven by the 
perceived compatibility of GGR with people’s 
visions of how the world ‘should’ look in the 
future, which in turn will likely be correlated 
with people’s underlying values289,290.
CHAPTER THREE
86 
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL
Locating GGR projects
Some parts of the environmental system 
tend to be more sensitive than others to 
adverse public reactions, but no simple 
solutions emerge. National publics have 
shown reluctance towards geo-engineering 
technologies that intervene in complex natural 
systems291, especially open systems (oceans, 
the atmosphere) as opposed to relatively 
closed systems, such as physically contained 
interventions in land surfaces and the 
subsurface. However, even within land-based 
systems, the risk of local communities raising 
concerns increases when interventions move 
closer to or beneath inhabited areas.
For wind energy, going offshore has unlocked 
deployment potential in the UK and it is 
tempting to see parallel opportunities for 
GGRs. DACCS is sometimes presented as 
flexible regarding location and possible to 
locate in areas with little existing land use292. 
However, caution is required in terms of 
thinking that places – both on and off shore, 
and both over and under the land surface – 
are empty. There are always (potential or actual) 
conflicting human uses and interests, as well as 
natural features deserving protection293,294. The 
selection of ‘viable’ locations is never a matter 
only of objective facts, but crucially depends 
on power relations among social actors. 
Similarly, whose land use is seen as most 
important, or who manages to represent natural 
features effectively, is a matter of who has 
influence. Poor populations in the developing 
countries may have other ideas about the 
use of ‘marginal’ land than agro-industrialists. 
Brownfield investments in deindustrialised 
areas may be popular for offering jobs, but 
may nevertheless constitute exploitation of 
marginalised parts of the population295. 
Secondary implications of GGRs
To understand the full implications of GGR 
requires consideration of the whole production 
chain, or socio-technical system. Society will 
react to the growing of biomass for BECCS, 
mining or quarrying of materials for enhanced 
weathering, and the demands for additional 
low- or zero-carbon energy for DACCS, or for 
mineral grinding, to storage of carbon in soils, 
oceans or geologic reservoirs. Experience with 
objections to gas pipelines296, underground 
carbon storage297, and both wind and nuclear 
power298 illustrate these challenges well. 
Aside from the specific production chains, 
society may also resist the implications of 
the general idea of GGR. The key lesson 
from recent public deliberations on energy 
systems was that the public would accept a 
coherent strategy for a low-carbon energy 
transition, but resisted technologies (like 
CCS) that appeared to prolong the underlying 
unsustainable approach299. Again, GGR would 
seem highly vulnerable to this, especially in 
the light of so called ‘moral hazard’ where the 
potential existence of GGR methods could 
deter mitigation.
CHAPTER THREE
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL 
87
Chapter four
Scenarios
Left
© Dimitris66.
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL 
89
4.1 GGR pathway building 
Two example scenarios have been developed 
to examine how individual GGR methods 
and cross-cutting issues might apply in the 
practice of meeting real-world targets. There 
are too many variables and uncertainties for 
these to provide absolute solutions, However 
they present plausible, though not necessarily 
optimal or desirable, future worlds in which 
ambitious efforts are made to limit climate 
change using GGR. 
The UK scenario for 2050 is intended to provide 
one example of actions that could be taken by a 
single nation. The global scenario for the whole 
century is then presented to demonstrate how 
GGR might be used internationally to meet the 
overall goals of the Paris Agreement.
Left
Rendering of Carbon 
Engineering's air contactor 
design. This unit would 
be one of several that 
would collectively capture 
1 MtCO2 pa. © Carbon 
Engineering Ltd.
CHAPTER FOUR
90 
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL
4.2 UK scenario – annual GGR  
of 130 MtCO2 in 2050
About the scenario
The Climate Change Act commits the UK to an 
80% reduction in emissions by the year 2050 
relative to 1990 levels. This requires reduction 
of net emissions to 160 MtCO2 per year in 2050. 
The Committee on Climate Change, the 
independent UK body that advises the 
government on emissions, considers that 
maximising the feasible opportunities to 
decarbonise across energy, heating, transport, 
industry, and agriculture sectors with currently 
known or anticipated technologies could 
reduce annual UK emissions slightly further 
than 80% by 2050, but not to lower than 
130 MtCO2 pa (Figure 7). 
The Clean Growth Strategy, published by the 
UK government in October 2017, recognises 
the need to legislate for a net-zero UK target 
in the second half of the century to meet the 
obligation of the Paris Agreement. 
Sitting alongside the Climate Change Act and 
the UK’s ambition to play a leading role in this 
field, this report builds a scenario around the 
ambition of achieving net-zero greenhouse 
gas emissions by 2050. This is not the only 
possible target, but it is one method by which 
the UK could go beyond the 2˚C goal and 
contribute to meeting the 1.5˚C aspiration.
Emissions (MtCO2 pa)
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
KEY
Aviation and shipping
Non CO2
Industry
Surface transport
Heat
Power
Residual GGR emissions in 2050 with maximum reductions to emissions in all sectors.
FIGURE 7
Source: Committee on Climate Change 2016 UK climate action following the Paris Agreement report.
40
47
32
5
4
3
CHAPTER FOUR
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL 
91
A scenario is presented below that deploys 
a range of GGR methods together to 
counterbalance the 130 MtCO2 pa emissions 
remaining after ambitious UK decarbonation300. 
This is not the only scenario that could meet 
the target, but is considered a plausible, albeit 
highly challenging, route to net-zero emissions. 
This scenario is based on the combined expert 
view of the working group and the wide range 
of advisors to this report, informed by the 
literature summarised earlier, a stakeholder 
workshop held to inform this work and our 
knowledge of current research.
The scenario meets the target of 130 MtCO2 
by 2050 by action in the UK only. It allows for 
import of resources, but does not consider 
international purchase of carbon credits or 
direct payment for action in other countries. It 
might in future become possible and sensible 
for the UK to pay for GGR to be done where it 
is most cost effective, or where there are the 
required resources. This international market 
does not yet exist, but could provide an 
additional approach to help meet the UK GGR 
target, although related issues of ethics, equity, 
sustainability and monitoring would arise.
Summary of findings from the UK scenario:
•  GGR at a scale of 130 MtCO2 pa is very 
challenging and costly. It is likely to 
be achievable in the UK, but only with 
substantial use of CCS with bioenergy and 
DACCS and with many methods deployed 
at the limit of their maximum deployment.
•  GGR is not an alternative to very substantial 
emissions reductions across the economy. 
The GGR target already assumes an 
ambitious reduction in UK emissions and 
without these measures the target of net-
zero is unlikely to be achievable by 2050.
•  A suite of GGR methods would be required.
 
–  Some are well-established and others 
require further research, but show 
considerable promise. 
 
–  Several land-based GGR pathways can 
be put into action now. However, many 
of these methods will need continued 
maintenance and need to be replaced by 
alternative methods in the longer term.
 
–  BECCS and DACCS will be required in 
addition to application of these land-
based approaches (and especially 
beyond 2050 when the sinks resulting 
from the biological methods have 
saturated).
 
–  Ocean pathways are unlikely to be 
feasible in this timeframe.
 
–  The scenario considers stretching targets 
for each of the GGR methods, but where 
these can be sustainably exceeded they 
should be. This will provide robustness 
if some methods prove infeasible or 
socially undesirable, and the flexibility to 
favour methods that prove more effective 
or less expensive.
CHAPTER FOUR
92 
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL
•  BECCS and DACCS have different 
advantages and disadvantages: 
 
–  BECCS provides energy co-benefits 
and has the potential to be cheaper but 
requires both the import of biomass and 
land-use change.
 
–  DACCS limits change in land use and has 
(potentially) low environmental impact but 
to be effective it requires decarbonised 
energy and the development of more 
expensive technology.
 
–  Both require large scale storage and 
other complementary CO2 transport 
infrastructure.
 
–  Development of bioenergy could be 
ramped up without CCS to enable 
removals with BECCS as CCS becomes 
available in the longer term.
•  Additional research, development and 
deployment demonstration is required for 
most GGR techniques. 
•  Pilot projects and larger scale 
demonstration projects are of particular 
importance to demonstrate the application 
and impact of GGR at moderate scale.
•  Improvements in monitoring and 
verification of CO2 uptake and storage, 
and of sustainability over the life cycle 
arealso critical.
•  Research is required on how public 
understanding will limit, shape and drive 
GGR methods.
•  As the UK is a relatively small and densely 
populated area, it could benefit from the 
opportunity to act in an international market to 
pursue GGR approaches where they can be 
pursued more readily and cost-effectively.
•  An anticipated carbon price of $100 per 
tCO2 by 2050 could make many GGR 
pathways economically viable.
•  To achieve the levels of GGR required in 
this scenario requires significant action, 
starting now. 
CHAPTER FOUR
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL 
93
CARBON PRICING IN THE UK
Source: Updated short-term traded carbon values, January 2018, Department for Business Energy and Industrial Strategy.
USD / tCO2e
0
2015
2020
2025
2030
2035
2040
2045
2050
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
KEY
Low
Central
High
One economic enabler to bring these GGR methods to market would be a credit for removal 
and storage of carbon from the atmosphere. The future of carbon prices in the UK is unclear, but 
analysis suggests that by 2050 they may reach above $100 per tCO2. This would enable many 
of these methods if the prices were also applied to CO2 removal, which is not currently the case. 
At present, the UK carbon price is set through a combination of a carbon price floor (£18 c. $25 
per tonne) and the European Union Emissions Trading System (EU ETS); continuation of the price 
floor and the UK participation in the EU ETS are not presently clear beyond 2020. Government 
guidance for policy assessment indicates that carbon values will rise to between £40 and 
£120 [2017 GBP] by 2030 ($55 and $170)301 setting a trend which would lead to prices between 
£120 and £340 ($170 and $470) in 2050.
UK Department for Business, Energy, and Industrial Strategy short-term assessment of future 
carbon values for policy appraisal (up to 2030) and extended trends. Values converted from 
real 2017 GBP (1 GBP=1.4 USD).
CHAPTER FOUR
94 
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL
GGR pathways to reach the UK target
The GGR methods described in Part 1 are 
grouped into four categories to meet the UK 
target of removing 130 MtCO2 pa by 2050:
1. Methods ready for deployment.
2. Methods yet to be demonstrated at scale.
3. Methods requiring CCS.
4.  Methods not expected to be feasible in 
the UK by 2050.
*The numbers stated are based on expert 
judgement for this single plausible scenario.
1. Methods ready for deployment 
(GGR methods already pursued to some extent)
Total removal by 2050: 35 MtCO2 pa
Forestation, habitat restoration, soil carbon 
sequestration, and building materials represent 
currently available GGR methods that together 
could provide almost one quarter of the target 
GGR for the UK to reach net-zero emissions. 
They would provide an extremely valuable 
contribution, and one that can be achieved 
comparatively easily, for a relatively low cost 
and with some co-benefits. Given that these 
four methods exploit already established 
activity, they could be ramped up rapidly from 
now. Regulation could incentivise changing 
land use and management practices with GGR 
benefits in mind, for example in a reformed 
(or in the UK replaced) Common Agricultural 
Policy. Many of these methods have some 
uncertainty involved so it would be important 
to plan for more to ensure that the desired 
target can be met, and to measure and 
monitor efficacy of each approach.
Forestation, habitat restoration and soil carbon 
sequestration are already included to some 
extent in existing international emissions 
reporting. Current UK government policy does 
not set expected levels to 2050, but the scale 
of GGR suggested for these three methods 
would represent a marked increase compared 
to activity expected in present plans. 
i. Forestation: 15 MtCO2 pa 
To reach this ambitious target, a high degree 
of forestation is utilised on 1.2 Mha of land – 
adding to the total current UK woodland area of 
3.2 Mha. This is equivalent to 5% of all UK land, 
or 80% of ‘available land’ (see box, Land use 
in the UK). The UK Northern Forest, planned to 
cover 0.1 Mha, is expected to sequester only 
one hundredth of this amount of CO2 annually, 
although its present planning is not optimising 
carbon removal and involves relatively 
small uptake per hectare. Nevertheless, this 
comparison gives a sense of the challenge of 
realising 15 MtCO2 pa, both in the land area 
required and the need for explicit focus on CO2 
uptake over other benefits. 
This large-scale deployment is driven by the 
low cost of this route to GGR and by a number 
of co-benefits that come from the resulting 
woodland, including economic benefits from 
commercial forestry. These benefits include 
production of wood for building and as a 
biofuel, each with alternate GGR potential. 
Forests take approximately 10 years to ramp-
up their maximum sequestration rate and 
reach maturity (when they no longer take up 
additional carbon) after 20 to 100 years. This 
carbon would then need to be protected, or 
could be harvested for long-lived wood product 
storage or energy/BECCS, enabling regrowth 
and continuous use of forests for mitigation.
CHAPTER FOUR
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL 
95
ii. Habitat restoration: 5 MtCO2 pa
Restoration of UK wetlands and salt marshes 
holds promise for significant GGR and is 
expected to boost biodiversity and other 
ecosystem functions. The largest potential for 
GGR comes from the 0.45 Mha of existing salt 
marshes around the UK coast, which could 
sequester 3 MtCO2 pa through restoration 
(though will require careful future coastal 
management as sea levels rise). In addition, 
restoration of all 0.8 Mha of UK freshwater 
wetlands could provide GGR of around 1 
MtCO2 pa. The UK is also home to a significant 
proportion of Europe’s peatland, stretching 
over 2.7 Mha. Up to 80% of these peatlands 
are considered to be in poor condition, yet 
two thirds is not yet covered by restoration 
schemes. Restoring an additional 1 Mha 
would lead to an increase of stored carbon 
of around 1 MtCO2 pa as well as reducing 
future emissions of CO2. At least in the short-
term, some increase in methane flux would 
be expected from peatland restoration, which 
could limit the overall climate benefit. 
iii. Soil carbon sequestration: 10 MtCO2 pa
Many of the techniques that would lead to soil 
carbon sequestration are already deployed on 
some UK farmland or close to current practice. 
Various established techniques can be 
implemented on both arable and pasture land, 
the exact combination of which will determine 
the impact on land efficiency and crop yield. 
On pasture this could involve changes to 
vegetation and livestock management, and 
on arable land changes to crop, nutrient and 
water management. In the UK specifically, 
spreading of organic material (manure) is 
unlikely to play a significant additional role as 
95% of available material is currently utilised, 
though addition of other organic amendments 
(compost, sludge) could play a small role. 
This estimate suggests that additional soil 
carbon sequestration practices are deployed 
to 4.5 Mha, three-quarters of current arable 
land, and the proportion of pasture land not 
set aside as ‘available’. In the UK specifically, 
payment and reporting could be enabled 
through changes to agricultural or land 
management subsidies. After as little as a 
decade or two, soils would approach a new, 
higher, equilibrium carbon concentration and 
reach saturation. By, or not long after, 2050 
it is possible that many areas undergoing 
soil carbon sequestration will have reached 
this stage and would require maintenance 
to prevent reversal. Retaining this amount 
of GGR beyond that point would then need 
additional capacity from another method, 
for example DACCS.
iv. Building materials: 5 MtCO2 pa 
Building with biomass/wood could provide 
GGR in the region of 4 MtCO2 pa, with the 
addition of c. 1 MtCO2 from modified concrete. 
Both materials offer the additional benefits of 
reducing the use of carbon intensive materials 
and providing a longer-term storage option 
for carbon capture processes for a relatively 
low cost. 
Reaching 4 MtCO2 pa would be the equivalent 
to building 200,000 three-bed, timber framed 
houses each year (compared to 220,000 
new houses built across the UK annually at 
present), although in practice other building 
types could account for a portion of the 4 
MtCO2 pa. The sustainable harvesting of 
this wood would allow additional trees to be 
grown without increasing forest land footprint, 
increases permanence of storage, and allows 
additional removal through new growth. 
CHAPTER FOUR
96 
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL
Despite progress in use of faster growing 
soft woods, it will take decades for forests 
to be grown specifically for this purpose and 
will require planting of additional UK forest 
or importing of biomass at scale. Under 
the UNFCCC/IPCC approach to estimating 
greenhouse gas flux, land sinks, including 
harvested wood products, are reported in the 
country of origin. While building with imported 
biomass would reduce requirements for 
other building materials (and their associated 
emissions), it would not necessarily provide 
negative emissions for the UK. 
Modification of concrete manufacture used 
for building may also have potential for GGR. 
The use of existing stocks of waste minerals 
to make aggregates has potential to be net 
negative, with relatively small CO2 uptake 
potential (<1 MtCO2 pa). If developed, new 
technology that captures CO2 emitted from 
the decomposition of limestone would reduce 
primary emissions of CO2 and may also allow 
small amounts of additional GGR through  
CO2-curing of pre-built concrete products or 
end-of-life mineral carbonation of concrete. 
CHAPTER FOUR
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL 
97
CHAPTER FOUR
98 
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL
Many of the methods to be deployed in the 
UK involve the use of land, which is a limited 
resource. To define the available land, large 
areas of the UK must be excluded, based 
on current use and natural characteristics. 
National parks, National Scenic Areas and 
Areas of Outstanding National Beauty are 
typically restricted. Furthermore, much of 
UK land is currently used for pastures and 
subsidised in some form through the EU’s 
Common Agricultural Policy (CAP), although 
this may change after Brexit. The remaining 
area is largely made up of agricultural land 
(Graded 1 to 3), required for food production. 
Lovett et al. estimate there is 1.5 Mha of 
available, poorer quality or non-agricultural 
land that could be used for GGR302.
UK land cover as determined by satellite imaging.
FIGURE 8
In assessing land availability for energy crops in the Great Britain, Lovett et al. overlay seven constraints: natural and semi 
natural habitats, slope > 15%, high organic carbon soils, urban areas, roads, rivers and lakes, designated areas, existing 
woodland and cultural heritage sites.
Copyright rests with the European Commission; Acknowledgement: Produced by the University of Leicester, The Centre 
for Landscape and Climate Research and Specto Natura and supported by Defra and the European Environment Agency 
under Grant Agreement 3541/B2012/R0-GIO/EEA.55055 with funding by the European Union.
Categories of use
Current area (Mha)
UK
24.3
All agricultural land
17.5
Pastures and meadows
5.9
Arable land
6
‘Available’ land
1.5
Forests
3.2
Peatlands
2.7
Freshwater wetlands
0.8
Salt marshes
0.45
Pastures
Non-irrigated arable land
Peat bogs
Moors and heathland
Natural grasslands
Discontinuous urban fabric
Coniferous forest
Broad-leaved forest
Transitional woodland-shrub
Sport and leisure facilities
Intertidal flats
27.1%
28.7%
Land use in the UK
9.4%
7.5%
                 5.8%
               5.3%
              5.1%
     2.2%
   1.4%
  1.1%
  1.1%
CHAPTER FOUR
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL 
99
The division of land primarily for the growth of biomass and the complementary GGR methods
that can be deployed on different proportions of the same land.
Land (Mha)
Primary Uses (Mha)
Complementary methods (Mha)
‘Available’ 
land
1.5
Forest
1.2
Enhanced weathering
1.2
Biomass for 
BECCS
0.3
Soil carbon sequestration
0.3
Enhanced weathering
0.3
Arable land
6
Biomass for 
BECCS
0.7
Soil carbon sequestration
4.5
Biomass for 
biochar
0.1
Biochar
1.5
Enhanced weathering
6
Total
Soil carbon sequestration
4.8
Biochar
1.5
Enhanced weathering
7.5
The scenarios developed in this section 
account for key known interactions. In 
some cases, GGR methods can be co-
deployed (Table 3) and are additive (for 
example enhanced weathering with BECCS 
crop growth), while in others they may not 
be additive (for example the application 
of biochar and soil carbon sequestration); 
however, many of these interactions are 
not fully understood. 
Furthermore, land availability will be affected by a 
number of future trends not explicitly considered 
here. Predicted UK population growth of almost 
20% by 2050 will increase competition for 
land with rising demand for food and homes. 
Decarbonisation of the energy system may 
require more land for solar fields and wind farms. 
In contrast, major lifestyle changes, such as 
an increasingly urban population, or reduction 
of meat consumption could make more land 
available. Additionally, technology development 
to improve crop yields could allow more biomass 
or food to be produced on less land.
TABLE 3
2. Methods yet to be demonstrated at scale
(GGR methods with potential contributions 
to the target not yet deployed)
Total GGR by 2050: 20 MtCO2 pa
The two methods of biochar and enhanced 
terrestrial weathering, offer potential for large 
scale GGR but are yet to be demonstrated at 
that scale. They could become contributors to 
UK GGR targets before 2050 and continue to 
contribute in the second half of the century. 
They involve spreading of materials across 
land, often with broader consequences than 
CO2 removal, including potential addition 
of undesirable substances, such as metals 
from minerals or tar from pyrolysis of biochar. 
Understanding these impacts, and what 
regulation needs to be developed around 
them, will be an important step in the delivery 
of these pathways. 
i. Biochar – 5 MtCO2 pa 
Biochar provides the option for storing carbon 
in soils in a more stable form than achieved 
through soil carbon sequestration methods. 
This pathway requires biomass for production of 
biochar and land to spread it on. Both biochar 
and soil carbon sequestration are compatible 
with arable land but cannot be deployed on 
the same land so this scenario splits arable 
land use between the two. To remove 5 MtCO2 
pa would require the deployment of biochar 
to a quarter of the 6 Mha of UK arable land. 
If biochar was ready for deployment now 
this could also be applied with forestation to 
maximise the land availability. 
The production of biochar to remove 5 MtCO2 
pa would require 0.1 Mha of land for perennial 
energy crops, assuming an even split between 
the use of residues and specifically grown 
crops. In a scenario with operational BECCS, 
biochar and BECCS will be in competition for 
biomass, and biochar may only be applicable 
where co-benefits are significant. There 
remains uncertainty around the consequences 
and co-benefits of biochar application on UK 
soils, which would need to be clarified before 
widespread application. However, if proven, 
biochar has the benefit of being deployable 
on a more local scale and not requiring CO2 
transport and storage infrastructure.
ii. Enhanced terrestrial weathering –  
15 MtCO2 pa 
Enhanced weathering of silicates in agricultural 
soil is at a relatively low-level of technology 
readiness, but existing research suggests it 
has the potential to be a contributor to UK 
GGR by 2050, and to have further potential 
into the second half on the century. Estimates 
of potential for enhanced weathering rely 
mostly on the availability of mineral resource 
and existing knowledge of weathering rates. 
Models suggest that spreading of silicates at 
20 t per ha pa over 5.4 Mha of arable land 
could achieve the 15 MtCO2 pa, although 
it may prove more efficient to increase the 
mass per ha and apply to less land-area. 
Approximately two thirds of this annual mass 
of silicate might be provided by waste material 
from industries (cement, steel, etc) assuming 
it is not contaminated, but the remaining third 
would have to be mined specifically. 
CHAPTER FOUR
100 
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL
The environmental and agricultural 
implications of enhanced weathering at scale 
are not well known and will require research, 
particularly during pilot demonstrations in 
the field (including monitoring of changes 
in soil chemistry, biological productivity, and 
assessment of the fate of removed CO2). 
Combining enhanced weathering with soil 
carbon sequestration or biochar is likely to be 
possible on the same land, though positive and 
negative interactions may alter efficiency and 
will need assessment. Enhanced weathering is 
unlikely to be cost-effective as a GGR approach 
on land that is not farmed. As with these other 
forms of GGR on farmland, there may be co-
benefits, such as increased productivity and soil 
improvement, to incentivise uptake by farmers, 
but it is likely that financial incentives will also 
be required to see enhanced weathering 
effective at large scale.
3. Methods requiring CCS:
Total GGR by 2050: 75 MtCO2 pa
GGR methods described in the previous two 
sections have built in storage of carbon, but 
together can provide less than half of the target 
130 MtCO2 pa required for the UK to reach 
net-zero emissions. An additional 75 MtCO2 pa 
would need to be delivered by two approaches 
requiring dedicated long-term storage of 
CO2: BECCS and DACCS. Crucially, meeting 
the UK target, therefore, depends on rapid 
development of the carbon transportation and 
storage infrastructure required for CCS. The UK 
has access to substantial sub-surface reservoirs 
such as depleted oil and gas fields and saline 
aquifers in the North Sea providing sufficient 
capacity for the required carbon storage if the 
infrastructure is developed. Neither BECCS nor 
DACCS have yet been demonstrated to operate 
at a large scale.
i. BECCS – 50 MtCO2 
The UK is likely to be a net importer of biomass 
for energy, alongside using domestic biomass 
resources. If UK demand for bioenergy grows, 
it is likely that this net balance of imports will 
continue. More than half the biomass used in 
the existing DRAX power station is imported, 
on which basis this scenario assumes 50% 
of BECCS biomass is imported (sufficient for 
25 MtCO2 GGR pa). This assumption requires 
that the carbon-credit for BECCS resides in 
the country sequestering the carbon, not the 
country where biomass is grown (which is the 
current basis of international reporting). BECCS 
of 10 MtCO2 pa could be supported from UK 
bio-waste, two thirds from waste straw and one 
third from forest trimmings from mature forests, 
though use of these residues would preclude 
their use for increasing soil carbon stocks. 
Growth of perennial energy crops on c. 1 Mha 
of land would provide BECCS of another 15 
Mt CO2 pa, using conservative estimates of 
productivity. Some of this required land area 
could come from ‘available land’ (defined in 
land use section above), but biofuel cannot 
be grown on the same land as new forests. 
The large area assigned to forestation in this 
scenario therefore requires that more than half 
of the energy crop is produced on existing 
farmland. It is likely that this could be achieved 
without decreasing food supply, given present 
areas of farmland set-asideg.
This level of BECCS could produce 0.2 EJ (50 
TWh) pa of electricity, 14% of the UK’s current 
electricity generation. This is approximately the 
equivalent to three coal fired power stations 
converted to run at full biomass capacity (and 
with the CCS capacity to capture and store the 
resulting CO2).
g.  All BECCS here has been considered to be land-based but deployment with an ocean-based feedstock could provide an alternative if 
shown to be viable under UK conditions.
CHAPTER FOUR
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL 
101
ii. DACCS – 25 MtCO2 pa
If all the methods above are pursued to their 
maximum potential, an additional 25 MtCO2 
pa GGR is still required to meet the target. 
This would have to be met by substantial 
application of DACCS, which is a technological 
challenge. DACCS has been demonstrated at 
small scale (50 tCO2 pa) but is yet to be proven 
at large scale. Development of the required 
infrastructure would, however, have long-term 
benefit in providing GGR into the second 
half of the century, as the biological methods 
reach saturation.
Current estimates suggest a high carbon price 
will be required to make DACCS feasible, but 
this is likely to reduce as demonstrators are 
developed and the process is optimised. The 
energy requirements of DACCS necessitate 
a low-carbon source of energy for maximum 
carbon efficiency. If removal and storage 
are undertaken at 10 times the theoretical 
minimum energy requirement, and unless 
‘waste’ or stranded energy can be utilised, this 
level of removal would suggest an additional 
requirement for 0.2 to 0.4 EJ (50 to 100 TWh) 
pa, the equivalent to the energy generated 
from BECCS capturing 50 MtCO2. At present, 
despite substantial expertise in chemical 
engineering and industrial fluid handling, 
the UK does not have significant research 
presence in the field of DACCS and so, without 
rapid R&D investment, would likely rely on this 
technology being developed elsewhere.
4. Methods not expected to be feasible  
in the UK by 2050
The following GGR methods, outlined earlier, 
have barriers which make them unlikely to be 
used for substantial GGR in the UK by 2050:
Mineral carbonation
This remains an immature technology. While 
in situ carbonation has been successfully 
demonstrated in basalts below Iceland, this 
approach relies on suitable silicate rock in 
unprotected areas. No such location has 
been identified or scoped in the UK. Ex situ 
carbonation in the lab or field has yet to be 
demonstrated at low cost or large scale. Both 
forms of carbonation have potential for longer-
term application as technologies develop and 
may become part of the applied GGR portfolio 
in the second half of the century. 
Ocean alkalinity
Intentional increase of alkalinity of the oceans 
at large scale has not yet been demonstrated 
in the field. Uncertainties remain about the 
possible reversibility of some of the GGR 
due to carbonate precipitation, and about 
the environmental implications at the point 
of addition. There is also a public mistrust 
of technologies that manipulate the oceans. 
Although this approach may prove viable and 
become useful in the second half of the century, 
it is unlikely to be employed at scale before 
2050. Indirect ocean alkalinity may result on 
this timeframe as a result of run-off from land of 
the products (alkalinity and associated carbon) 
of enhanced-terrestrial weathering. Small scale 
direct increase of alkalinity may also be pursued 
to mitigate against ocean acidity in vulnerable 
ecosystems, such as coral reefs.
CHAPTER FOUR
102 
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL
Ocean fertilisation
Current research suggests that ocean 
fertilisation is unlikely to be effective for GGR 
purposes. While the process could in theory 
operate to sequester CO2, questions remain 
about the efficiency of net downward carbon 
flux that can be achieved, and there are 
substantial environmental risks. As with ocean 
alkalinity, public perception is also likely to be 
unfavourable to this ocean-based technology. 
It is not anticipated that ocean fertilisation will 
prove useful in meeting the UK target. 
Both ocean-based methods also face legislative 
barriers, since international legislation (the 
London Convention and Protocol) forbids 
‘dumping’ of materials into the ocean and this 
explicitly includes ocean fertilisation, excepting 
that for research purposes. 
•  Pursue rapid ramp-up of forestation,  
habitat restoration, and soil carbon 
sequestration, across large UK  
land-areas.
•  Establish an incentive or subsidy system 
to encourage changes of land practice, 
particularly for soil carbon sequestration. 
This could form part of the framework 
put in place to replace the EU Common 
Agricultural Policy.
•  Encourage changes in building practice 
to use wood and concrete manufactured 
with carbonated waste (while recognising 
overall limited potential for GGR of these 
approaches).
•  Develop monitoring and verification 
procedures and programmes to track 
the effectiveness of GGR delivered by 
each method.
•  Grow and import sustainable biomass 
at large scale to meet the need for both 
energy and GGR demands. 
•  Pursue research into the GGR potential 
of enhanced weathering and biochar 
in UK agricultural soils, and into BECCS 
and DACCS for longer term deployment. 
This should include assessment of the 
co-benefits, social and environmental 
risks, monitoring and evaluation, and 
include field-based pilot demonstrations.
•  Capitalise on UK access to suitable 
reservoirs for CCS and relevant 
engineering and industry expertise 
to establish substantial infrastructure 
for transport and storage of CO2.
Key actions for UK net-zero
CHAPTER FOUR
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL 
103
4.3 Global scenario – 810 GtCO2  
by 2100
About the scenario
It is not yet clear whether it will be possible 
to keep global mean surface temperature 
rise to the Paris Agreement’s ambition of no 
more than 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels. 
Following the Agreement, a significant body 
of work has been dedicated to understanding 
how this target can be met. One method 
of doing so involves the use of integrated 
assessment models to assess viable socio-
economic scenarios for future energy and 
carbon use. All integrated assessment 
models scenarios that keep warming below 
1.5°C require large-scale deployment of GGR 
methods. By 2100, the median of projected 
cumulative removals is 810 GtCO2
h,303 and this 
value is taken here as the global target. 
The use of a cumulative target for the end of 
the century contrasts with the earlier UK annual 
2050 target. This allows explicit consideration 
of the saturation of natural carbon sinks, which 
is likely on this extended timescale, and of the 
development of further technologies. 
Summary of findings from the global scenario
•  With concerted international action, the 
target of 810 GtCO2 cumulative emissions 
by 2100 could be achieved.
•  At a global scale, there is significant scope 
for land-based biological GGR.
 
–  This comes with the vulnerability to 
reversal associated with natural storage, 
with continued maintenance required to 
prevent such reversal. 
 
–  Most biology-based approaches would 
reach saturation before 2100. Sustainable 
usage of biomass (forests for building, 
BECCS) would, however, enable renewal 
through new growth.
•  Location of technology and co-location 
with other activities will be important 
considerations for feasibility.
•  Trading schemes would enable action to be 
taken in the most effective locations.
•  Biological storage used near maximum 
capability might enable this target to 
be reached without CCS. However, the 
large land requirements and saturation of 
biological stores make it very likely that 
BECCS and DACCS be needed by 2100. 
•  Monitoring for effectiveness and 
sustainability will be required at scale.
•  On this timescale, new technologies may be 
developed, but they are not relied upon in 
this scenario.
For this global scenario, which considers 
cumulative GGR over the whole century, 
GGR methods are grouped into two: those 
that become saturated during this timeframe 
and those that do not. As in the UK scenario, 
approximate values for CO2 uptake are 
assigned to each GGR based on overview of 
the literature and the combined expert view of 
the working group, the stakeholder workshop, 
and wide range of advisors to this report. 
h. Footnote: range 440 – 1020 GtCO2
CHAPTER FOUR
104 
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL
1. Saturating storage
250 to 670 GtCO2 by 2100
The GGR methods deployed here involve 
storage of carbon in the natural environment, 
and so are limited by the availability of land. 
This will mean interaction with a large number 
of other land-using activities, most notably 
food production. In many cases this storage 
could saturate before the 2100s, providing 
a carbon store that will require continual 
management and be vulnerable to natural 
disasters or human action.
i. Forestation 100 to 300 GtCO2 
Forestation and forest management has the 
potential to achieve a large proportion of the 
GGR needed to meet the global target, but 
with a correspondingly large requirement of 
land. Employing improved management of 
existing forestry to half of the world’s 1900 Mha 
of native forests which are under non-intensive 
management for wood production could yield 
30 GtCO2 of GGR over a period of 50 years. 
An additional 300 to 800 Mha of new forest 
(equivalent to 2 to 6% of world land surface, or 
1 to 3 times the area of India) would store an 
additional 80 to 300 GtCO2 over a period of 25 
years. To reach the cumulative total this land 
requirement could be reduced by good forest 
management, harvesting trees once they have 
reached maturity and allowing additional CO2 
to be sequestered with new trees on the same 
land. Utilisation would also provide a market 
to subsidise the sequestration activity, though 
managing this sustainably or with limitations to 
biodiversity damage would be critical.
In siting forests, location is relevant. Focusing 
reforestation on tropical areas could reduce the 
land area required due to higher sequestration 
rates there, while covering snow-covered areas 
with forests could be counterproductive for 
limiting temperature change, resulting in local 
net-warming through reduced surface reflectivity. 
ii. Coastal and wetland habitat restoration  
10 to 20 GtCO2
Habitat restoration values depend heavily on 
the type of land restored, but scope exists 
particularly for mangrove, saltmarsh and 
seagrass restoration. Achieving this level of 
restoration would come with a number of co-
benefits – for example, restored mangroves 
resulting in increased protection to coastal 
flooding and improved biodiversity. However, 
without a price for the sequestration, the 
incentive for action may be limited. This target 
would require restoration of up to all of the 
above habitats available to be restored (in 
addition to reforested land), many of which exist 
in nations that do not currently have payment 
mechanisms to enable such restoration. 
Saturation would be reached for a significant 
proportion of these habitats before 2100 and 
they will require continual maintenance to avoid 
reversal. Alongside restoration of degraded 
habitats, destruction of current natural habitats 
will also need to cease for full impact of this 
action. For reference, a sink of 2.6 GtCO2 was 
lost between 2010 and 2016 because of the 
clearance of African vegetation (including 
forest and other habitats)304.
CHAPTER FOUR
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL 
105
The long atmospheric residence time of CO2 means that global temperatures are closely 
related to cumulative emissions of CO2 rather than to emissions in any particular year or period305. 
This might suggest that GGR could be applied at any time to mitigate climate change. There are, 
however, critical issues related to timescale:
1. Ramp-up and saturation of biological stores
It can take significant time to plant large areas 
of forest and, once planted, it takes about a 
decade for forests to reach their maximum rate 
of carbon uptake. Forests and other biomass 
stores (soil, wetlands) also reach saturation 
between 20 and 100 years, beyond which they 
cannot take up additional carbon without an 
expansion of the land-area used. 
2. Ramp-up of new industries
There will be a significant ramp-up period 
while new technology is demonstrated, 
appraised, and the infrastructure for large-
scale deployment built. For GGR approaches 
at a high level of technology readiness, 
this process can commence as soon as 
there is the political and economic will. For 
other GGR approaches, additional research 
and demonstration is required that will 
further lengthen the time before large-scale 
application can be pursued. 
At present rates of emissions, atmospheric 
levels of CO2 to cause warming in excess 
of 1.5°C will be reached in 10 to 30 years306. 
Even with the rapid decreases in emissions 
projected in the more ambitious integrated 
assessment models, significant levels of GGR 
are required by 2050. To meet these levels 
will require ramp-up in preceding decades 
and therefore rapid action now. 
3. The danger of overshoot
It is possible that emissions could cause the 
atmospheric greenhouse gas concentration 
to exceed the threshold defined to reach 2˚C, 
peaking then decreasing, known as overshoot. 
Such pathways are represented in many 
integrated assessment models scenarios and 
are a feature of the difficulty of rapidly cutting 
net emissions to limit warming when the climate 
is already close to this temperature. There are, 
however, several reasons why overshoot might 
be undesirable. Natural systems will experience 
additional perturbations during overshoot (for 
example, ocean acidification) and in some cases 
may undergo irreversible change (for example 
melting of land-ice and consequent sea-level 
rise). Overshoot also implies temporary use of 
larger amounts of GGR while atmospheric CO2 
concentration is reduced, and a subsequent 
decrease in GGR could lead to stranded assets 
associated with GGR infrastructure in the very 
long term307. Overshoot is also likely to involve 
substantial development of BECCS and other 
GGR late in the century, which will place extreme 
future pressure on land with implications for 
land-use in a more densely populated world 
as well as for environmental sustainability. The 
assumption underlying overshoot scenarios, that 
significant GGR can be left until late this century, 
also carries societal and policy risk in reducing 
the motivation for action now, increasing the risk 
that action is delayed indefinitely.
TIMELINES
CHAPTER FOUR
106 
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL
Source: Figure adapted from Obersteiner et al. 2018.
Annual carbon emissions
2020
2020
2040
2040
2060
2060
2080
2080
2100
2100
0
0
KEY
Fossil
GGR (including land 
use change)
Cumulative C emission
Net annual C emission
Example emission pathways with identical cumulative emissions by 2100. Blue lines depict annual 
net emissions, red lines are cumulative, showing (a) Late century GGR, with substantial ‘overshoot’, 
(b) No Overshoot: GGR ramped up early then phased out to avoid an overshoot.
(a)
(b)
CHAPTER FOUR
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL 
107
iii. Soil carbon sequestration 20 to 100 GtCO2 
Achieving soil carbon sequestration at 
this scale would involve improving soil 
management in arable and grazing land. Even 
the upper end of this removal range averages 
at 1.2 GtCO2 per year, which is towards the 
lower end of technical potentials highlighted in 
the literature. However, non-technical barriers 
to implementation may delay deployment 
and result in the need for higher levels of 
sequestration over a shorter timescale. 
Implementation of soil carbon sequestration 
globally is even more complex than considering 
implementation within an individual nation 
like the UK. For example, encouraging or 
incentivising a vast number of actors to 
undertake these practices, let alone monitoring 
their implementation and impact, would provide 
a significant challenge. Similarly, encouraging 
continued maintenance action past the point 
of saturation will be essential. Co-benefits 
associated with that maintenance would assist, 
but difficulties will remain if maintenance is not 
associated with a financial incentive.
iv. Building with biomass 20 to 50 GtCO2 
Although building with wood is common 
practice in many places, this level of removal 
would be additional to current wood building 
markets, possibly achieved by building 5 to 20 
million multi-story buildings over the next 80 
years. This level of removal would additionally 
avoid emissions associated with non-biomass 
based building materials. Removal of wood 
for building enables forests to continue to 
take up carbon even once they have reached 
maturity and provides a financial incentive 
for forestry. The lifetime of the built products 
and end-of-life disposal method will be 
important considerations.
v. Biochar 100 to 200 GtCO2 
Biochar becomes a more realistic prospect 
at scale by 2100 than in 2050. There is direct 
competition for use of biomass between 
biochar and BECCS and land competition with 
soil carbon sequestration. In this scenario the 
potential soil fertility and quality co-benefits of 
biochar and ability to deploy in places without 
CCS infrastructure drive a significant amount 
of utilisation worldwide.
Utilisation of biochar at this scale would 
require 400 tonnes of biochar at 50 tonnes per 
ha pa, spread on between 7 and 14 Mha land (4 
to 8% of global arable land), and producing 500 
to 2800 EJ (140,000 to 780,000 TWh) of energy 
in pyrolysis over this period. It is likely that this 
biomass would come in part from crop waste 
and in part from dedicated biomass crops – 
presuming a 50/50 split would require land for 
biomass growth of c. 20 to 130 Mha at the lower 
end of sequestration and 40 to 260 Mha at the 
higher end.
CHAPTER FOUR
108 
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL
2. Permanent storage
Up to 800 GtCO2. 
The following methods can be deployed 
at large scale and the captured CO2 is 
expected to be permanently removed from 
the atmosphere. They provide significant 
potential for CO2 removal, but are at a range 
of technology readiness, with significant 
remaining uncertainties. 
Both BECCS and DACCS have large 
requirements for geological storage capacity 
– by traditional CCS in sedimentary geological 
formations or by mineral carbonation. Global 
sedimentary CCS storage capacity is estimated 
at 3360 GtCO2 (20% of theoretical capacity308), 
so is unlikely to become a limiting factor. This 
technology is not risk free, however, and some 
degree of CO2 leakage is expected. 
i. BECCS c. 300 GtCO2 
Assessment of the extent of possible biomass 
production based on land-area constraints 
suggest a range of 300 to 700 GtCO2 GGR 
may be achievable with BECCS. If dedicated 
high-productivity energy crops are used, and 
grown evenly in time between now and 2100, 
this range requires between 100 and 500 
Mha of land, equivalent to between 7% and 
35% of all global arable land. Non-arable land 
could be used for this purpose, but in either 
case this would require a great deal of land-
use change and could put significant pressure 
on food production. 
Land use could be reduced through the use 
of crop residues, though the often cited 50% 
contribution from residues would be hard to 
achieve at this scale. With significant changes 
to land area, it is technically possible to grow 
biomass at this scale, but there is increasing 
evidence suggesting that dedicated biomass 
growth will be a challenge for freshwater 
availability and for nutrient cycles. These 
challenges and the need to balance biofuel 
with food production suggest that sustainable 
deployment of BECCS is likely to be at the 
lower-end of the range based on the land-area 
constraints alone. 
The energy potential of BECCS is highly 
uncertain, but very loose estimates would put 
this scale of deployment on the order of 10 to 
100 EJ (2,800 to 28,000 TWh) a year (cf world 
electricity generation of 90 EJ (25,000 TWh) in 
2016). Considering a more realistic time frame 
in which BECCS implementation increases over 
the 21st century would lead to much increased 
land requirements and energy potential. World 
electricity demand is expected to increase 
significantly over the coming century, but if 
BECCS energy supply outpaces demand, 
financial incentives for the associated removals 
will be reduced and without a significant price 
for sequestration, action may be limited.
ii. DACCS 200 to 500 GtCO2 
In the second half of the century, substantial 
use of DACCS becomes a possibility, but 
remains reliant upon a realistic carbon price 
due to the lack of co-benefits. Technological 
development is likely to increase efficiency 
and lower cost. The potential for large scale 
removal with limited requirements for land 
and limited negative consequences is likely 
to drive deployment. At the scale suggested 
here, DACCS would be a very significant 
global industry. At a carbon price of $100 
CHAPTER FOUR
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL 
109
per tCO2 the DACCS industry would have a 
turnover of tens of trillions of USD, potentially 
larger than the present oil and gas industry. 
At this scale, requirements for chemical 
manufacture (such as amines) and the need for 
power and water would become significant. 
If removal and storage is achieved at 10 times 
the theoretical minimum energy requirement 
and removals operate at 12 GtCO2 a year this 
would require 80 EJ (22,000 TWh) annually, 
roughly equivalent to all of the current world 
electricity generation, though further efficiency 
gains might reduce this. At a future point that 
DACCS is no longer required, there is the risk 
of stranded assets.
iii. Enhanced weathering: c. 100 GtCO2 
The lack of field-scale demonstration of 
enhanced weathering means that there is 
significant uncertainty about the carbon 
sequestration potential and the environmental 
and agricultural impacts of its long-term 
use. Nevertheless, present understanding 
suggests this is a promising approach with 
potential agricultural co-benefits and makes 
significant deployment likely before 2100. 
Where the material released in this terrestrial 
process ends up in the oceans, long-term 
stability of the removed CO2 makes enhanced 
weathering a route to permanent storage of 
CO2 without the need for CCS. Achieving GGR 
of 100 GtCO2, or an average removal of 1.2 
GtCO2 a year, requires around 12 Gt of mineral 
resource per year, spread over 600 Mha (two 
thirds of the most productive cropland). It is 
again noted that deployment would likely be 
weighted to the latter half of the century – at 
which point additional land used for biomass 
growth could also be treated. 
A significant fraction of the silicate required 
could be met from waste materials and there is 
sufficient waste from silicate mining to remove 
0.7 to 1.2 GtCO2 a year. Use of this material 
reduces the energy and cost requirements 
of additional mining and grinding of silicates. 
However, it would be limited in the cases 
where waste contains toxic heavy metals. 
In the long-term, the energy for mineral 
processing and transport is anticipated to 
come largely from decarbonised sources.
The long-term implications of large-scale 
enhanced weathering for agriculture, 
terrestrial and freshwater ecosystems, and 
for the ocean from the implicit increase in 
alkalinity, are poorly known and require 
further research, particularly during early 
demonstration. The fate of metals released by 
enhanced weathering and their impact on the 
environment, and the interaction of enhanced 
weathering with soil carbon sequestration, are 
among important unresolved questions.
iv. Ocean alkalinity: uncertain
The intentional deployment of ocean alkalinity 
for GGR is not likely in the coming decades, 
but may be pursued as a form of permanent 
carbon storage without CCS later in the century. 
Pursuit of land-based enhanced weathering 
would lead to increase in ocean alkalinity, 
providing a test of the long-term consequences 
of this approach for ocean ecosystems and for 
the long-term stability of carbon in the oceans 
(but without mimicking the short-term impact 
of direct alkalinity addition and direct uptake 
of CO2 into seawater). It is also possible that 
intentional addition of alkalinity will be pursued 
at a local scale to mitigate the impact of ocean 
acidification on vulnerable ecosystems (such as 
reefs). Such applications would provide direct 
demonstration of the costs, benefits, and risks 
of larger scale intentional pursuit for GGR. 
CHAPTER FOUR
110 
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL
Public attitudes and legislative barriers provide 
a limitation, but if the full consequences 
of action were understood, these might 
be overcome. 
Any such large-scale application would 
require a substantial source of alkalinity, most 
likely of lime at a scale greater than present 
lime production, or the direct industrial 
neutralisation of CO2 with limestone. 
v. Concrete: uncertain
Present low-carbon approaches to concrete 
manufacture generally reduce CO2 emissions, 
but do not provide net removal of CO2 from 
the atmosphere (and are not pursued at 
a scale to be significant). Development of 
new technology that would capture the CO2 
emitted during cement production would allow 
net carbon negative concrete to be produced, 
for example, from CO2 curing of pre-built 
concrete products such as concrete blocks. 
This could become a larger route to GGR later 
this century, but its level of application cannot 
yet be assessed. 
3. GGR pathways unlikely to prove useful 
at scale
i. Ocean fertilisation: 
While theoretically possible to sequester 
up to 300 GtCO2 by iron fertilisation by the 
end of the century, inefficient net-removal of 
carbon to the deep ocean makes it likely that 
the total possible GGR is significantly smaller. 
If pursued over large regions, as would be 
required, fertilisation also carries substantial 
risk of negative consequences to ocean 
ecosystems and nutrient cycles. Fertilisation 
is also currently forbidden under international 
conventions and unacceptable to much of 
the public. These negatives provide a strong 
argument against substantial deployment of 
ocean fertilisation for GGR.
CHAPTER FOUR
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL 
111
Chapter five
Lessons learned from scenarios
Left
Tokyo cityscape. © ooyoo.
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL 
113
Meeting the aims of the Paris Agreement and limiting warming to 1.5˚C with the deployment  
of GGR would require the following international actions.
Meeting the temperature goals of the Paris 
Agreement is challenging and cannot be 
achieved without rapid and substantial 
emissions reduction
GGR targets in the scenarios described are 
pursued at the same time as steep reductions 
in emissions to meet the goals of the Paris 
Agreement. Meeting these GGR targets will be 
challenging and expensive, and the goals of 
Paris can only be achieved if GGR is pursued 
alongside rapid and substantial emissions 
reductions. Even with these emissions 
reductions, deployment of GGR requires 
availability of a large amount of additional 
energy (from a decarbonised energy system), 
the development of massive industries in the 
form of DACCS and BECCS, and the growth 
of biomass on a very significant land area.
RECOMMENDATION 1
Continue and increase global 
efforts to reduce emissions of 
greenhouse gases. Large-scale 
GGR is challenging and expensive 
and not a replacement for 
reducing emissions. 
Multiple GGR pathways will be required
No single approach to GGR can achieve all the 
carbon removal required, either at national or 
global scale, to help meet the goals of the Paris 
Agreement and stabilise climate. Uncertainty 
over the future scalability of GGR methods 
(due to requirements for land and CCS, 
environmental impacts, reversibility of storage, 
and costs) also indicates the need to develop 
multiple GGR methods. Land-based biological 
stores can be developed rapidly but will 
saturate within a few decades and maintaining 
the same level of annual removals will require 
additional capacity from non-saturating 
methods.
RECOMMENDATION 2
Implement a global suite of GGR 
methods now to meet the goals 
of the Paris Agreement. This suite 
should include existing land-
based approaches, but these are 
unlikely to provide sufficient GGR 
capacity so other technologies 
must be actively explored. 
5.1 Lessons learned from scenarios
CHAPTER FIVE
114 
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL
Storage and permanence – the need for CCS
Although some GGR methods come with 
built-in storage, these do not allow sufficient 
removal to reach net-zero emissions in the UK 
in 2050, and are unlikely to enable the 1.5°C 
Paris target to be met. Meeting that goal will 
require substantial dedicated storage of CO2 
removed from the atmosphere (in addition to 
storage of CO2 undertaken as part of reducing 
emissions from fossil-fuel power-stations). At 
present, this can only realistically be achieved 
using below-surface sedimentary rocks (as 
occurs in conventional CCS). Sufficient capacity 
in such rocks for storage of the carbon resulting 
from required GGR is available, but this would 
require a rapid ramp-up of an industry that, 
although demonstrated successfully, has not 
been pursued at large-scale. 
Other approaches to long-term storage of CO2 
are at a lower level of technology readiness 
and are unlikely to be available in the near 
future. Carbonation of below-surface silicate 
rocks and/or reaction of CO2 with limestone 
and storage in the ocean may be additional 
routes to permanent storage of CO2 at 
scale. These may augment but not replace 
conventional sedimentary CCS. ‘Carbon 
utilisation’ technologies, such as chemicals 
or liquid biofuels produced from CO2, are 
gaining increasing interest, but, beyond those 
pathways discussed above, presently hold 
limited promise for use or storage at the 
scale required. 
RECOMMENDATION 3
Build CCS infrastructure. Scenario 
building indicates that substantial 
permanent storage, presently 
only demonstrated in geological 
reservoirs, will be essential to 
meet the scale required for 
climate goals.
 
The timeline for deployment of GGR: 
research, development, and ramp-up
The deployment of GGR methods will require 
time. For options that come at low cost with co-
benefits, soil carbon sequestration, forestation, 
and habitat restoration, large-scale deployment 
should begin now. The co-benefits provide 
pay-back irrespective of carbon sequestration 
and deploying now leaves options open in the 
future. Forests planted now, for example, could 
provide future biomass for use in BECCS and 
building in the future.
For those GGR methods that are not ready to 
be deployed, more R&D is needed through 
to demonstrator scale, in partnership with 
industry where relevant. This will lead to both 
improvements in technology and reductions 
in costs. Given the commitment to the Paris 
Agreement it seems very likely that substantial 
GGR industries will exist internationally. 
Support for R&D is required across the 
full range of GGR methods and will drive 
technology development, but financial pull 
will also be required to drive deployment 
to market. Existing carbon prices provide a 
disincentive to emitting CO2 to the atmosphere, 
but do not provide a corresponding incentive 
to remove and store CO2 that has already 
been emitted. Carbon prices – or credits 
– could be extended to remunerate such 
removals (as in the United States’ 45Q tax 
credit) and to encourage business investment 
in development and deployment of all GGR 
technologies that can be verified and operate 
without negative consequences. 
More work is needed, across all GGR pathways, 
on monitoring carbon sequestration and 
environmental impacts, and on establishing 
approaches to evaluation and verification. 
This work will need to continue from research, 
through pilot field demonstration, and into the 
deployment phase.
CHAPTER FIVE
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL 
115
Rigorous life cycle assessments have not yet 
been undertaken for many GGR pathways and 
are required to understand the consequences 
of each method. Deployment will have impacts 
on energy, food, water, land and other issues 
of prime consideration in the SDGs; impacts 
that would become apparent from life cycle 
assessments. The interactions of a suite of 
different GGR methods at large-scale may 
have cumulative impacts alongside mitigation 
activities, which are not immediately apparent 
from considering individual technologies 
in isolation. These impacts need to be 
understood, monitored and managed.
RECOMMENDATION 4
Incentivise demonstrators and 
early stage deployment to enable 
development of GGR methods. 
This allows the assessment of 
the real GGR potential and of the 
wider social and environmental 
impacts of each method. It would 
also enable the process of cost 
discovery and reduction.
RECOMMENDATION 5
Incentivise removal of 
atmospheric greenhouse gases 
through carbon pricing or other 
mechanisms. GGR has financial 
cost at scale and so will require 
incentives to drive technological 
development and deployment 
of a suite of methods.
RECOMMENDATION 6
Establish a framework to govern 
sustainability of GGR deployment. 
Undertake rigorous life cycle 
assessments and environmental 
monitoring of individual methods 
and of their use together. 
Social acceptability
Ensuring the public acceptability of GGR 
methods will be vital, starting at demonstration 
scale. Although not generally facing the 
same public opposition as solar radiation 
management routes to climate control, the 
degree of social acceptability will vary across 
the different GGR methods. Social science 
literature shows that early engagement to 
involve the public and encourage supportive 
action amongst key groups (such as farmers) 
will be important. Whether activity occurs on 
public or private land, public attitudes may 
make GGR utilisation impossible in some 
locations and such considerations will need 
to be included in deployment plans.
Importance of location
Deployment of GGRs is likely to be heavily 
influenced by location, on both national and 
global scales. Methods requiring CCS may 
be more easily deployed around the relevant 
infrastructure. Methods requiring mineral, 
energy, biomass, or water might be most 
sensibly deployed where there is supply of 
those resources that could be utilised at low 
or no cost. A number of methods require 
significant land-use change from other 
activities. This will be particularly hard in highly 
populated areas or those with protected 
environmental status, but there are also ethical 
considerations when ‘available’ land is used by 
more sparsely populated or itinerant peoples.
CHAPTER FIVE
116 
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL
International trade and carbon accounting
While it is possible to imagine some nations 
meeting their own needs for GGR, it is not 
likely to be the case for every country, nor 
to be the most globally efficient approach to 
meet GGR targets and the goals of the Paris 
Agreement. International trade in raw materials 
and carbon credits will be necessary in many 
cases and could help lower overall costs.
Countries with natural resources used for GGR 
will export them and those with a need will 
import them. The largest such resource is likely 
to remain biomass, which is already traded 
internationally. Mineral resources for enhanced 
weathering or mineral carbonation may also 
be traded. International agreement about 
allocation of credits for GGR will be required 
for such trade. One question that needs 
resolving is whether the credit is gained by the 
country producing the resource or the country 
using it and storing the removed carbon, or 
whether the credits are shared. 
Trading of carbon credits from GGR methods 
could also be used to increase efficiency, 
lower costs and enhance development of 
GGR. A country with large scope for GGR due 
to economic, technological or geographical 
reasons might choose to ‘over-remove’ CO2 to 
cover other nation’s requirements in exchange 
for payment. Countries with large capacity for 
CCS (such as the UK) or mineral carbonation 
(such as Iceland) might be paid to store CO2; 
those with land and water to increase forest 
mass; and those with substantial non-carbon 
energy potential to pursue DACCS. While this 
report focuses primarily on the scientific and 
technical aspects of GGR pathways, it also 
recognises that successful deployment of 
GGR will depend on establishing international 
agreements on trade and carbon credits in 
the context of GGR.
In all cases measurement, reporting and 
verification will be critical to ensure CO2 fluxes 
are accurately accounted for and standards 
set to prevent double-counting. Additionally, 
the ethical implications and social acceptability 
of these transactions will need to be taken 
into account.
RECOMMENDATION 7
Build GGR into regulatory 
frameworks and carbon trading 
systems. In the UK, as an 
example, active support for 
GGR implementation (soil carbon 
sequestration, forestation, habitat 
restoration) should be built into 
new UK agricultural or land 
management subsidies.
RECOMMENDATION 8
Establish international science-
based standards for monitoring, 
reporting and verification 
for GGR approaches, both 
of carbon sequestration and 
of environmental impacts. 
Standards currently exist for 
biomass and CCS, but not for 
GGR methods at large.
CHAPTER FIVE
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL 
117
Contributions
Left
Basalt. © Probuxtor.
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL 
119
Contributions
Working group
Adisa Azapagic FREng
University of Manchester
David Beerling FRS
University of Sheffield
Chris Cheeseman
Imperial College London
Gideon Henderson FRS (Chair) University of Oxford
Cameron Hepburn
University of Oxford
Jo House
University of Bristol
Corinne Le Quéré FRS
University of East Anglia
Nils Markusson
University of Lancaster
Nilay Shah FREng
Imperial College London
John Shepherd FRS
University of Southampton
Pete Smith FRS
University of Aberdeen
External reviewers
Jim Hall FREng
University of Oxford
Alex Halliday FRS
Columbia University
Brian Foster FRS (Chair)
University of Oxford
Raffaella Ocone FREng
Heriot Watt University
Jeffery Siirola
Carnegie Mellon University
Andrew Watson FRS
University of Exeter
Eric Wolff FRS
University of Cambridge
Staff
Amanda Kahunzire
Science Policy Intern, the Royal Society
Elizabeth Surkovic
Head of Policy, Resilient Futures, the Royal Society
Alexandra Smyth
Policy Officer, Royal Academy of Engineering
Alan Walker
Head of Policy, Royal Academy of Engineering
Richard Walker
Senior Policy Advisor, the Royal Society
CONTRIBUTIONS
120 
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL
Acknowledgements
Isabela Butnar
University College London Energy Institute
Peter Coleman
Department of Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy
Stephen Cornelius 
World Wildlife Fund
Emily Cox
University of Cardiff
Chris Cheffings
Joint Nature Conservation Committee
Richard Darton FREng
University of Oxford
Paul Ekins
University College London
Chris Hope
University of Cambridge
Andrew Haslett FREng
Energy and Technology Institute
Rick Jefferys FREng
University of Edinburgh
Catherine Johnson
Department of Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy
Doug King FREng
University of Bath
Tim Kruger
University of Oxford
Niall MacDowell
Imperial College London
Geoff Maitland FREng
Imperial College London
Juerg Matter
University of Southampton
Duncan McLaren
University of Lancaster
Richard Millar
The Committee on Climate Change
Michael Obersteiner
International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis
Nick Pidgeon
Cardiff University
Phil Renforth
Cardiff University
Jonathan Scurlock 
National Farmers Union
Steve Smith
Department of Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy
Judith Stewart
Department of Environment, Food and Rural Affairs
Patricia Thornley
University of Manchester
Naomi Vaughan
University of East Anglia
Phil Williamson
University of East Anglia
CONTRIBUTIONS
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL 
121
References
Left
CCS demonstration facility 
in Tomakomai, Hokkaido, 
Japan. Photo by Florian 
Kraxner with permission 
of Japan CCS Co. Ltd.
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL 
123
References
1. 
 UNFCCC Paris agreement article 4.1 – emphasis ours
2.  The Royal Society. 2017 The potential and limitations of using 
carbon dioxide. See: https://royalsociety.org/topics-policy/
projects/low-carbon-energy-programme/potential-limitations-
carbon-dioxide/
3.  The Royal Society, National Academy of Sciences. 2018 
Dealing with carbon dioxide at scale. See: https://royalsociety.
org/topics-policy/publications/2018/dealing-with-carbon-
dioxide-at-scale/
4.  Carbon Capture and Storage Association. See: http://www.
ccsassociation.org/news-and-events/reports-and-publications/ 
(accessed 30 May 2018)
5.  The Royal Society. 2009 Geoengineering the climate: Science, 
governance and uncertainty. See https://royalsociety.org/~/
media/royal_society_content/policy/publications/2009/8693.
pdf (accessed 30 May 2018)
6.  Le Quéré C, Andrew RM, Friedlingstein P, Sitch S, Pongratz J, 
Manning AC, et al. Global Carbon Budget 2017. Earth System 
Science Data. 2018 Mar 12;10(1):405–48. Available from: http://
dx.doi.org/10.5194/essd-10-405-2018
7.  Le Quéré C, Andrew RM, Friedlingstein P, Sitch S, Pongratz J, 
Manning AC, et al. Global Carbon Budget 2017. Earth System 
Science Data. 2018 Mar 12;10(1):405–48. Available from: http://
dx.doi.org/10.5194/essd-10-405-2018
8.  MacFarling Meure C, Etheridge D, Trudinger C, Steele P, 
Langenfelds R, van Ommen T et al. Law Dome CO2, CH4and 
N2O ice core records extended to 2000 years BP. Geophysical 
Research Letters. 2006;33(14). Available from: http://dx.doi.
org/10.1029/2006gl026152
9.  Ciais P, Sabine C, Bala G, Bopp L, Brovkin V, Canadell K et 
al. Carbon and Other Biogeochemical Cycles. In: Climate 
Change 2013: The Physical Science Basis. Contribution 
of Working Group I to the Fifth Assessment Report of the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. Cambridge: 
Cambridge University Press 2013
10.  Le Quéré C, Andrew RM, Friedlingstein P, Sitch S, Pongratz J, 
Manning AC, et al. Global Carbon Budget 2017. Earth System 
Science Data. 2018 Mar 12;10(1):405–48. Available from: http://
dx.doi.org/10.5194/essd-10-405-2018
11.  Berner RA, Lasaga AC, Garrels RM. The carbonate-silicate 
geochemical cycle and its effect on atmospheric carbon 
dioxide over the past 100 million years. American Journal of 
Science. 1983 Sep 1;283(7):641–83. Available from: http://dx.doi.
org/10.2475/ajs.283.7.641
12.  Griscom BW, Adams J, Ellis PW, Houghton RA, Lomax G, Miteva 
DA, et al. Natural climate solutions. Proceedings of the National 
Academy of Sciences. 2017 Oct 16;114(44):11645–50. Available 
from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1710465114
13.  Smith P, Davis SJ, Creutzig F, Fuss S, Minx J, Gabrielle B, et al. 
Biophysical and economic limits to negative CO2 emissions. 
Nature Climate Change. 2015 Dec 7;6(1):42–50. Available from: 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/nclimate2870
14.  Griscom BW, Adams J, Ellis PW, Houghton RA, Lomax G, Miteva 
DA, et al. Natural climate solutions. Proceedings of the National 
Academy of Sciences. 2017 Oct 16;114(44):11645–50. Available 
from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1710465114
15.  Smith P, Davis SJ, Creutzig F, Fuss S, Minx J, Gabrielle B, et al. 
Biophysical and economic limits to negative CO2 emissions. 
Nature Climate Change. 2015 Dec 7;6(1):42–50. Available from: 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/nclimate2870
16.  Brunori AME, Sdringola P, Dini F, Ilarioni L, Nasini L, Regni L, 
et al. Carbon balance and Life Cycle Assessment in an oak 
plantation for mined area reclamation. Journal of Cleaner 
Production. 2017 Feb;144:69–78. Available from: http://dx.doi.
org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2016.12.116
17.  Liu, Y, Guo, M. Environmental load analysis of forestation and 
management process of Larix olgensis plantation by life cycle 
analysis. Journal of Cleaner Production. 2017 Jan;142:2463–70. 
Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2016.11.029
18.  Perugini L, Caporaso L, Marconi S, Cescatti A, Quesada B, de 
Noblet-Ducoudré N, et al. Biophysical effects on temperature 
and precipitation due to land cover change. Environmental 
Research Letters. 2017 May 1;12(5):53002. Available from: http://
dx.doi.org/10.1088/1748-9326/aa6b3f
19.  Griscom BW, Adams J, Ellis PW, Houghton RA, Lomax G, Miteva 
DA, et al. Natural climate solutions. Proceedings of the National 
Academy of Sciences. 2017 Oct 16;114(44):11645–50. Available 
from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1710465114
20.  Smith P, Davis SJ, Creutzig F, Fuss S, Minx J, Gabrielle B, et al. 
Biophysical and economic limits to negative CO2 emissions. 
Nature Climate Change. 2015 Dec 7;6(1):42–50. Available from: 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/nclimate2870
21.  Grassi G, Pilli R, House J, Federici S, Kurz WA. Science-based 
approach for credible accounting of mitigation in managed 
forests. Carbon Balance and Management,. 2018 May 17;13(1). 
https://Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1186/s13021-018-0096-2
22.  Cotula L., 2009 Land Grab Or Development Opportunity?: 
Agricultural Investment and International Land Deals in Africa. 
International Institute for Environment and Development, 
London
23.  Fleurke F. 2013 A brief introduction to the phenomenon of land 
grabbing. VN Forum, The Hague.
24.  Bonn Challenge http://www.bonnchallenge.org/content/
challenge
25.  Forestry Commission. 2017 Forestry Statistics. See https://www.
forestry.gov.uk/forestry/infd-7aqdgc (accessed 30 May 2018)
26.  IPCC 2014, 2013 Supplement to the 2006 IPCC Guidelines for 
National Greenhouse Gas Inventories: Wetlands, Hiraishi, T., 
Krug, T., Tanabe, K., Srivastava, N., Baasansuren, J., Fukuda, M. 
and Troxler, T.G. (eds). Published: IPCC, Switzerland
27.  Zedler JB, Kercher S. Wetland resources: Status, Trends, 
Ecosystem Services, and Restorability. Annual Review 
of Environment and Resources. 2005 Nov 21;30(1):39–
74. Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1146/annurev.
energy.30.050504.144248
28.  Parish, F., Sirin, A., Charman, D., Joosten, H., Minayeva, 
T., Silvius, M. and Stringer, L. (Eds.) 2008. Assessment on 
Peatlands, Biodiversity and Climate Change: Main Report. 
Global Environment Centre, Kuala Lumpur and Wetlands 
International, Wageningen.
29.  Page SE, Hooijer A. In the line of fire: the peatlands of 
Southeast Asia. Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society 
B: Biological Sciences. 2016 May 23;371(1696):20150176. 
Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rstb.2015.0176
30.  Griscom BW, Adams J, Ellis PW, Houghton RA, Lomax G, Miteva 
DA, et al. Natural climate solutions. Proceedings of the National 
Academy of Sciences. 2017 Oct 16;114(44):11645–50. Available 
from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1710465114
REFERENCES
124 
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL
31.  IUCN Peatland Programme. 2011 Commission of inquiry on 
peatlands See: http://www.iucn-uk-peatlandprogramme.org/
sites/www.iucn-uk-peatlandprogramme.org/files/IUCN%20
UK%20Commission%20of%20Inquiry%20on%20Peatlands%20
Summary%20of%20Findings%20spv%20web_1.pdf (accessed 
30 May 2018)
32.  Parish, F., Sirin, A., Charman, D., Joosten, H., Minayeva, 
T., Silvius, M. and Stringer, L. (Eds.) 2008. Assessment on 
Peatlands, Biodiversity and Climate Change: Main Report. 
Global Environment Centre, Kuala Lumpur and Wetlands 
International, Wageningen.
33.  The Royal Society. 2014 Resilience to extreme weather See 
https://royalsociety.org/topics-policy/projects/resilience-
extreme-weather/ (accessed 30 May 2018)
34.  Rouse WR. The energy and water balance of high-latitude 
wetlands: controls and extrapolation. Global Change Biology. 
2000 Dec;6(S1):59–68. Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1046/
j.1365-2486.2000.06013.x
35.  Kayranli B, Scholz M, Mustafa A, Hedmark Å. Carbon Storage 
and Fluxes within Freshwater Wetlands: a Critical Review. 
Wetlands. 2009 Dec 9;30(1):111–24. Available from: http://dx.doi.
org/10.1007/s13157-009-0003-4
36.  Worrall F, Evans MG, Bonn A, Reed MS, Chapman D, Holden 
J. Can carbon offsetting pay for upland ecological restoration? 
Science of The Total Environment. 2009 Dec;408(1):26–36. 
Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.scitotenv.2009.09.022
37.  Kivaisi AK. The potential for constructed wetlands for 
wastewater treatment and reuse in developing countries: 
a review. Ecological Engineering. 2001 Feb;16(4):545–60. 
Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/S0925-8574(00)00113-0
38.  Erwin KL. Wetlands and global climate change: the role of 
wetland restoration in a changing world. Wetlands Ecology and 
Management. 2008 Nov 7;17(1):71–84. Available from: http://
dx.doi.org/10.1007/s11273-008-9119-1
39.  Zedler JB, Kercher S. WETLAND RESOURCES: Status, 
Trends, Ecosystem Services, and Restorability. Annual 
Review of Environment and Resources. 2005 Nov 
21;30(1):39–74. Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1146/annurev.
energy.30.050504.144248
40.  Junk WJ, An S, Finlayson CM, Gopal B, Květ J, Mitchell SA, et al. 
Current state of knowledge regarding the world’s wetlands and 
their future under global climate change: a synthesis. Aquatic 
Sciences. 2012 Oct 30;75(1):151–67. Available from: http://dx.doi.
org/10.1007/s00027-012-0278-z
41.  Hu S, Niu Z, Chen Y, Li L, Zhang H. Global wetlands: Potential 
distribution, wetland loss, and status. Science of the total 
environment. 2017 May;586:319–27. Available from: http://
dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.scitotenv.2017.02.001
42.  Mitsch WJ, Bernal B, Nahlik AM, Mander Ü, Zhang L, Anderson 
CJ, et al. Wetlands, carbon, and climate change. Landscape 
Ecology. 2012 Jun 12;28(4):583–97. Available from: http://dx.doi.
org/10.1007/s10980-012-9758-8
43.  Clark J, Billett M, Coyle M, Croft S, Daniels S, Evans C, et al. 
Model inter-comparison between statistical and dynamic model 
assessments of the long-term stability of blanket peat in Great 
Britain (1940–2099). Climate Research. 2010 Dec 30;45:227–
48. Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.3354/cr00974
44.  Smith P, Friedmann J. Bridging the gap—carbon dioxide 
removal. In The UNEP emissions Gap report 2017: a UN 
environment synthesis report (eds J Christensen et al.), pp. 
58–66. Nairobi, Kenya: UNEP Available from: https://wedocs.
unep.org/bitstream/handle/20.500.11822/22070/EGR_2017.pdf
45.  IUCN Peatland Programme. 2017 Peatland Code See: http://
www.iucn-uk-peatlandprogramme.org/node/2523 (accessed 
30 May 2018)
46.  Lal R. Sequestering carbon in soils of agro-ecosystems. 
Food Policy. 2011 Jan;36:S33–9. Available from: http://dx.doi.
org/10.1016/j.foodpol.2010.12.001
47.  Smith P, Martino D, Cai Z, Gwary D, Janzen H, Kumar P, et 
al. Greenhouse gas mitigation in agriculture. Philosophical 
Transactions of the Royal Society B: Biological Sciences. 
2008 Feb 27;363(1492):789–813. Available from: http://dx.doi.
org/10.1098/rstb.2007.2184
48.  Smith P, Friedmann J. Bridging the gap—carbon dioxide 
removal. In The UNEP emissions Gap report 2017: a UN 
environment synthesis report (eds J Christensen et al.), pp. 
58–66. Nairobi, Kenya: UNEP Available from: https://wedocs.
unep.org/bitstream/handle/20.500.11822/22070/EGR_2017.pdf
49.  Smith P. Soils and climate change. Current Opinion in 
Environmental Sustainability. 2012 Nov;4(5):539–44. Available 
from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.cosust.2012.06.005
50.  Fuss S, Lamb WF, Callaghan MW, Hilaire J, Creutzig F, Amann 
T, et al. Negative emissions—Part 2: Costs, potentials and 
side effects. Environmental Research Letters. 2018 May 
21;13(6):63002. https://doi.org/10.1088/1748-9326/aabf9f
51.  Conant RT, Ryan MG, Ågren GI, Birge HE, Davidson EA, 
Eliasson PE, et al. Temperature and soil organic matter 
decomposition rates - synthesis of current knowledge 
and a way forward. Global Change Biology. 2011 Aug 
2;17(11):3392–404. Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-
2486.2011.02496.x
52.  Lal R. Sequestering carbon in soils of agro-ecosystems. 
Food Policy. 2011 Jan;36:S33–9. Available from: http://dx.doi.
org/10.1016/j.foodpol.2010.12.001
53.  Lal R. Soil carbon management and climate change. Carbon 
Management. 2013 Aug;4(4):439–62. Available from: http://
dx.doi.org/10.4155/cmt.13.31
54.  Minasny B, Malone BP, McBratney AB, Angers DA, Arrouays 
D, Chambers A, et al. Soil carbon 4 per mille. Geoderma. 2017 
Apr;292:59–86. Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.
geoderma.2017.01.002
55.  Smith P, Haszeldine RS, Smith SM. Preliminary assessment of 
the potential for, and limitations to, terrestrial negative emission 
technologies in the UK. Environmental Science: Processes 
& Impacts. 2016;18(11):1400–5. Available from: http://dx.doi.
org/10.1039/C6EM00386A
56.  Smith P. Soils and climate change. Current Opinion in 
Environmental Sustainability. 2012 Nov;4(5):539–44. Available 
from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.cosust.2012.06.005
57.  Smith P, Lanigan G, Kutsch WL, Buchmann N, Eugster W, 
Aubinet M, et al. Measurements necessary for assessing 
the net ecosystem carbon budget of croplands. Agriculture, 
Ecosystems & Environment. 2010 Nov;139(3):302–15. Available 
from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.agee.2010.04.004
REFERENCES
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL 
125
58.  Smith P. Soil carbon sequestration and biochar as negative 
emission technologies. Global Change Biology. 2016 Jan 
6;22(3):1315–24. Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/
gcb.13178
59.  Pan G, Smith P, Pan W. The role of soil organic matter in 
maintaining the productivity and yield stability of cereals 
in China. Agriculture, Ecosystems & Environment. 2009 
Jan;129(1–3):344–8. Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.
agee.2008.10.008
60.  Keesstra SD, Bouma J, Wallinga J, Tittonell P, Smith P, Cerdà 
A, et al. The significance of soils and soil science towards 
realization of the United Nations Sustainable Development 
Goals. SOIL. 2016 Apr 7;2(2):111–28. Available from: http://dx.doi.
org/10.5194/soil-2-111-2016
61.  Smith P. Soil carbon sequestration and biochar as negative 
emission technologies. Global Change Biology. 2016 Jan 
6;22(3):1315–24. Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/
gcb.13178
62.  Smith P, Martino D, Cai Z, Gwary D, Janzen H, Kumar P, et 
al. Greenhouse gas mitigation in agriculture. Philosophical 
Transactions of the Royal Society B: Biological Sciences. 
2008 Feb 27;363(1492):789–813. Available from: http://dx.doi.
org/10.1098/rstb.2007.2184
63.  Smith P. Soil carbon sequestration and biochar as negative 
emission technologies. Global Change Biology. 2016 Jan 
6;22(3):1315–24. Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/
gcb.13178
64.  Smith P. Soil carbon sequestration and biochar as negative 
emission technologies. Global Change Biology. 2016 Jan 
6;22(3):1315–24. Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/
gcb.13178
65.  Smith P, Haszeldine RS, Smith SM. Preliminary assessment of 
the potential for, and limitations to, terrestrial negative emission 
technologies in the UK. Environmental Science: Processes 
& Impacts. 2016;18(11):1400–5. Available from: http://dx.doi.
org/10.1039/C6EM00386A
66.  Smith P, Martino D, Cai Z, Gwary D, Janzen H, Kumar P, et 
al. Greenhouse gas mitigation in agriculture. Philosophical 
Transactions of the Royal Society B: Biological Sciences. 
2008 Feb 27;363(1492):789–813. Available from: http://dx.doi.
org/10.1098/rstb.2007.2184
67.  Smith P, Davis SJ, Creutzig F, Fuss S, Minx J, Gabrielle B, et al. 
Biophysical and economic limits to negative CO2 emissions. 
Nature Climate Change. 2015 Dec 7;6(1):42–50. Available from: 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/nclimate2870
68.  Smith P. Soils and climate change. Current Opinion in 
Environmental Sustainability. 2012 Nov;4(5):539–44. Available 
from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.cosust.2012.06.005
69.  Keesstra SD, Bouma J, Wallinga J, Tittonell P, Smith P, Cerdà 
A, et al. The significance of soils and soil science towards 
realization of the United Nations Sustainable Development 
Goals. SOIL. 2016 Apr 7;2(2):111–28. Available from: http://dx.doi.
org/10.5194/soil-2-111-2016
70.  Smith P, Martino D, Cai Z, Gwary D, Janzen H, Kumar P, et al. 
Policy and technological constraints to implementation of 
greenhouse gas mitigation options in agriculture. Agriculture, 
Ecosystems & Environment. 2007 Jan;118(1–4):6–28. Available 
from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.agee.2006.06.006
71.  Bustamante M, Robledo-Abad C, Harper R, Mbow C, 
Ravindranat NH, Sperling F, et al. Co-benefits, trade-offs, 
barriers and policies for greenhouse gas mitigation in the 
agriculture, forestry and other land use (AFOLU) sector. Global 
Change Biology. 2014 May 8;20(10):3270–90. Available from: 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/gcb.12591
72.  Keesstra SD, Bouma J, Wallinga J, Tittonell P, Smith P, Cerdà 
A, et al. The significance of soils and soil science towards 
realization of the United Nations Sustainable Development 
Goals. SOIL. 2016 Apr 7;2(2):111–28. Available from: http://dx.doi.
org/10.5194/soil-2-111-2016
73.  Soussana J-F, Lutfalla S, Ehrhardt F, Rosenstock T, Lamanna C, 
Havlík P, et al. Matching policy and science: Rationale for the 
‘4 per 1000 - soils for food security and climate’ initiative. Soil 
and Tillage Research. 2017 Dec; Available from: http://dx.doi.
org/10.1016/j.still.2017.12.002
74.  Lehmann J, Joseph S, editors. 2015 Biochar for environmental 
management: science, technology and implementation. Oxon, 
UK: Routledge.
75.  Weng Z, Van Zwieten L, Singh BP, Tavakkoli E, Joseph S, 
Macdonald LM, et al. Biochar built soil carbon over a decade 
by stabilizing rhizodeposits. Nature Climate Change. 2017 
Apr 24;7(5):371–6. Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/
nclimate3276
76.  Jeffery S, Abalos D, Prodana M, Bastos AC, van Groenigen JW, 
Hungate BA, et al. Biochar boosts tropical but not temperate 
crop yields. Environmental Research Letters. 2017 Apr 
24;12(5):53001. Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1088/1748-
9326/aa67bd
77.  Smith P, Friedmann J. Bridging the gap—carbon dioxide 
removal. In The UNEP emissions Gap report 2017: a UN 
environment synthesis report (eds J Christensen et al.), pp. 
58–66. Nairobi, Kenya: UNEP Available from: https://wedocs.
unep.org/bitstream/handle/20.500.11822/22070/EGR_2017.pdf
78.  Hammond J, Shackley S, Sohi S, Brownsort P. Prospective life 
cycle carbon abatement for pyrolysis biochar systems in the 
UK. Energy Policy. 2011 May;39(5):2646–55. Available from: 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.enpol.2011.02.033
79.  Roy P, Dias G. Prospects for pyrolysis technologies in the 
bioenergy sector: A review. Renewable and Sustainable 
Energy Reviews. 2017 Sep;77:59–69. Available from: http://
dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.rser.2017.03.136
80.  Joseph S, Graber E, Chia C, Munroe P, Donne S, Thomas T, et 
al. Shifting paradigms: development of high-efficiency biochar 
fertilizers based on nano-structures and soluble components. 
Carbon Management. 2013 Jun;4(3):323–43. Available from: 
http://dx.doi.org/10.4155/cmt.13.23
81.  Woolf D, Amonette JE, Street-Perrott FA, Lehmann J, Joseph S. 
Sustainable biochar to mitigate global climate change. Nature 
Communications. 2010 Aug;1(5):1–9. Available from: http://
dx.doi.org/10.1038/ncomms1053
82.  Smith P. Soil carbon sequestration and biochar as negative 
emission technologies. Global Change Biology. 2016 Jan 
6;22(3):1315–24. Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/
gcb.13178
83.  Smith P, Haszeldine RS, Smith SM. Preliminary assessment of 
the potential for, and limitations to, terrestrial negative emission 
technologies in the UK. Environmental Science: Processes 
& Impacts. 2016;18(11):1400–5. Available from: http://dx.doi.
org/10.1039/C6EM00386A
REFERENCES
126 
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL
84.  Smith P. Soil carbon sequestration and biochar as negative 
emission technologies. Global Change Biology. 2016 Jan 
6;22(3):1315–24. Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/
gcb.13178
85.  Woolf D, Amonette JE, Street-Perrott FA, Lehmann J, Joseph S. 
Sustainable biochar to mitigate global climate change. Nature 
Communications. 2010 Aug;1(5):1–9. Available from: http://
dx.doi.org/10.1038/ncomms1053
86.  Roberts DA, Paul NA, Dworjanyn SA, Bird MI, de Nys R. Biochar 
from commercially cultivated seaweed for soil amelioration. 
Scientific Reports. 2015 Apr 9;5(1). Available from: http://dx.doi.
org/10.1038/srep09665
87.  Shackley S, Hammond J, Gaunt J, Ibarrola R. The feasibility and 
costs of biochar deployment in the UK. Carbon Management. 
2011 Jun;2(3):335–56. Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.4155/
cmt.11.22
88.  Meyer S, Glaser B, Quicker P. Technical, Economical, and 
Climate-Related Aspects of Biochar Production Technologies: 
A Literature Review. Environmental Science & Technology. 2011 
Nov 15;45(22):9473–83. Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/
es201792c
89.  Lehmann J, Joseph S, editors. 2015 Biochar for environmental 
management: science, technology and implementation. Oxon, 
UK: Routledge.
90.  Woolf D, Amonette JE, Street-Perrott FA, Lehmann J, Joseph S. 
Sustainable biochar to mitigate global climate change. Nature 
Communications. 2010 Aug;1(5):1–9. Available from: http://
dx.doi.org/10.1038/ncomms1053
91.  Genesio L, Miglietta F, Lugato E, Baronti S, Pieri M, Vaccari FP. 
Surface albedo following biochar application in durum wheat. 
Environmental Research Letters. 2012 Feb 22;7(1):14025. 
Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1088/1748-9326/7/1/014025
92.  Bozzi E, Genesio L, Toscano P, Pieri M, Miglietta F. Mimicking 
biochar-albedo feedback in complex Mediterranean 
agricultural landscapes. Environmental Research Letters. 2015 
Aug 1;10(8):84014. Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1088/1748-
9326/10/8/084014
93.  Zhang A, Cui L, Pan G, Li L, Hussain Q, Zhang X, et al. Effect 
of biochar amendment on yield and methane and nitrous 
oxide emissions from a rice paddy from Tai Lake plain, China. 
Agriculture, Ecosystems & Environment. 2010 Dec;139(4):469–
75. Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.agee.2010.09.003
94.  Scheer C, Grace PR, Rowlings DW, Kimber S, Van Zwieten L. 
Effect of biochar amendment on the soil-atmosphere exchange 
of greenhouse gases from an intensive subtropical pasture 
in northern New South Wales, Australia. Plant and Soil. 2011 
Mar 8;345(1–2):47–58. Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/
s11104-011-0759-1
95.  Castaldi S, Riondino M, Baronti S, Esposito FR, Marzaioli 
R, Rutigliano FA, et al. Impact of biochar application to 
a Mediterranean wheat crop on soil microbial activity 
and greenhouse gas fluxes. Chemosphere. 2011 
Nov;85(9):1464–71. Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.
chemosphere.2011.08.031
96.  Woolf D, Amonette JE, Street-Perrott FA, Lehmann J, Joseph S. 
Sustainable biochar to mitigate global climate change. Nature 
Communications. 2010 Aug;1(5):1–9. Available from: http://
dx.doi.org/10.1038/ncomms1053
97.  Uchimiya M, Lima IM, Thomas Klasson K, Chang S, Wartelle 
LH, Rodgers JE. Immobilization of Heavy Metal Ions (CuII, CdII, 
NiII, and PbII) by Broiler Litter-Derived Biochars in Water and 
Soil. Journal of Agricultural and Food Chemistry. 2010 May 
12;58(9):5538–44. Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/
jf9044217
98.  Biederman L A and Harpole WS (2013), Biochar and its effects 
on plant productivity and nutrient cycling: a meta-analysis. GCB 
Bioenergy, 5: 202–214. doi:10.1111/gcbb.12037 
99.  Roberts KG, Gloy BA, Joseph S, Scott NR, Lehmann J. 
Life Cycle Assessment of Biochar Systems: Estimating 
the Energetic, Economic, and Climate Change Potential. 
Environmental Science & Technology. 2010 Jan 15;44(2):827–
33. Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/es902266r
100.  Moreira MT, Noya I, Feijoo G. The prospective use of biochar 
as adsorption matrix – A review from a lifecycle perspective. 
Bioresource Technology. 2017 Dec;246:135–41. Available from: 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.biortech.2017.08.041 Moreira et al., 
2017
101.   Woolf D, Amonette JE, Street-Perrott FA, Lehmann J, Joseph 
S. Sustainable biochar to mitigate global climate change. 
Nature Communications. 2010 Aug;1(5):1–9. Available from: 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/ncomms1053
102.  Shackley S, Hammond J, Gaunt J, Ibarrola R. The feasibility 
and costs of biochar deployment in the UK. Carbon 
Management. 2011 Jun;2(3):335–56. Available from: http://
dx.doi.org/10.4155/cmt.11.22
103.  Dickinson D, Balduccio L, Buysse J, Ronsse F, van 
Huylenbroeck G, Prins W. Cost-benefit analysis of using 
biochar to improve cereals agriculture. GCB Bioenergy. 2014 
Apr 29;7(4):850–64. Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/
gcbb.12180
104.  Smith P. Soils as carbon sinks: the global context. Soil Use and 
Management. 2006 Jan 18;20(2):212–8. Available from: http://
dx.doi.org/10.1111/j.1475-2743.2004.tb00361.x
105.  Smith P. Soils and climate change. Current Opinion in 
Environmental Sustainability. 2012 Nov;4(5):539–44. Available 
from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.cosust.2012.06.005
106.  Smith P, Lanigan G, Kutsch WL, Buchmann N, Eugster W, 
Aubinet M, et al. Measurements necessary for assessing 
the net ecosystem carbon budget of croplands. Agriculture, 
Ecosystems & Environment. 2010 Nov;139(3):302–15. Available 
from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.agee.2010.04.004
107.   Alexander P, Moran D, Rounsevell MDA, Hillier J, Smith P. Cost 
and potential of carbon abatement from the UK perennial 
energy crop market. GCB Bioenergy. 2013 Nov 29;6(2):156–
68. Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/gcbb.12148
108.  International Energy Agency. 2015 Carbon Capture and 
Storage: The solution for deep emissions reductions. See 
https://www.iea.org/publications/freepublications/publication/
CarbonCaptureandStorageThesolutionfordeepemissions 
reductions.pdf (accessed 30 May 2018)
109.  Smith P, Davis SJ, Creutzig F, Fuss S, Minx J, Gabrielle B, et al. 
Biophysical and economic limits to negative CO2 emissions. 
Nature Climate Change. 2015 Dec 7;6(1):42–50. Available 
from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/nclimate2870
REFERENCES
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL 
127
110.   Smith P, Haszeldine RS, Smith SM. Preliminary assessment 
of the potential for, and limitations to, terrestrial negative 
emission technologies in the UK. Environmental Science: 
Processes & Impacts. 2016;18(11):1400–5. Available from: http://
dx.doi.org/10.1039/C6EM00386A
111.   Holloway S. Sequestration—the underground storage of 
carbon dioxide. InClimate Change and Energy Pathways for 
the Mediterranean 2008 (pp. 61-88). Springer, Dordrecht.
112.   Energy Technologies Institute. 2016 Progressing Development 
of the UK’s Strategic Carbon Dioxide Storage Resource. 
See https://s3-eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/assets.eti.co.uk/
legacyUploads/2016/04/D16-10113ETIS-WP6-Report-
Publishable-Summary.pdf (accessed 30 May 2018) 
113.   Global CCS Institute. 2006 Industrial Carbon Dioxide 
Emissions and Carbon Dioxide Storage Potential in the UK. 
See https://www.globalccsinstitute.com/publications/industrial-
carbon-dioxide-emissions-and-carbon-dioxide-storage-
potential-uk (accessed 30 May 2018)
114.   Byers EA, Hall JW, Amezaga JM. Electricity generation 
and cooling water use: UK pathways to 2050. Global 
Environmental Change. 2014 Mar;25:16–30. Available from: 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.gloenvcha.2014.01.005
115.   Smith P, Davis SJ, Creutzig F, Fuss S, Minx J, Gabrielle B, et al. 
Biophysical and economic limits to negative CO2 emissions. 
Nature Climate Change. 2015 Dec 7;6(1):42–50. Available from: 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/nclimate2870
116.   Humpenöder F, Popp A, Dietrich JP, Klein D, Lotze-Campen 
H, Bonsch M, et al. Investigating afforestation and bioenergy 
CCS as climate change mitigation strategies. Environmental 
Research Letters. 2014 May 1;9(6):64029. Available from: http://
dx.doi.org/10.1088/1748-9326/9/6/064029
117.   Pour N, Webley PA, Cook PJ. A Sustainability Framework 
for Bioenergy with Carbon Capture and Storage (BECCS) 
Technologies. Energy Procedia. 2017 Jul;114:6044–56. 
Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.egypro.2017.03.1741
118.   Smith P, Davis SJ, Creutzig F, Fuss S, Minx J, Gabrielle B, et al. 
Biophysical and economic limits to negative CO2 emissions. 
Nature Climate Change. 2015 Dec 7;6(1):42–50. Available from: 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/nclimate2870
119.   Fajardy M, Mac Dowell N. Can BECCS deliver sustainable 
and resource efficient negative emissions? Energy & 
Environmental Science. 2017;10(6):1389–426. Available from: 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/C7EE00465F
120.  McGlashan N, Shah N, Workman M. The Potential for the 
Deployment of Negative Emissions Technologies in the UK. 
AVOID / Workstream 2 / Deliverable 1 / Report 18 (Imperial 
College, London, 2010).
121.   Bhave A, Taylor RHS, Fennell P, Livingston WR, Shah N, Dowell 
NM, et al. Screening and techno-economic assessment of 
biomass-based power generation with CCS technologies to 
meet 2050 CO 2 targets. Applied Energy. 2017 Mar;190:481–9. 
Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2016.12.120
122.  Fajardy M, Mac Dowell N. The energy return on investment 
of BECCS: is BECCS a threat to energy security? Energy & 
Environmental Science. 2018; Available from: http://dx.doi.
org/10.1039/c7ee03610h
123.  Bhave A, Taylor RHS, Fennell P, Livingston WR, Shah N, Dowell 
NM, et al. Screening and techno-economic assessment of 
biomass-based power generation with CCS technologies to 
meet 2050 CO 2 targets. Applied Energy. 2017 Mar;190:481–9. 
Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2016.12.120
124.  Department of Energy. 2017 DOE Announces Major Milestone 
Reached for Illinois Industrial CCS Project. See https://energy.
gov/fe/articles/doe-announces-major-milestone-reached-
illinois-industrial-ccs-project (accessed 30 May 2018)
125.  World Resources Institute. 2010 Carbon dioxide capture and 
storage and the UNFCCC: Recommendations for addressing 
technical issues. See https://hub.globalccsinstitute.com/
publications/carbon-dioxide-capture-and-storage-and-unfccc-
recommendations-addressing-technical-14 (accessed 30 
May 2018).
126.  Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. 2006 IPPC 
Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories. See 
http://www.ipcc-nggip.iges.or.jp/public/2006gl/pdf/4_Volume4/
V4_12_Ch12_HWP.pdf (accessed 30 May 2018).
127.   Sarmiento JL. 2013 Ocean biogeochemical dynamics. 
Princeton, USA: Princeton University Press.
128.  Boyd PW, Jickells T, Law CS, Blain S, Boyle EA, Buesseler 
KO, et al. Mesoscale Iron Enrichment Experiments 1993-
2005: Synthesis and Future Directions. Science. 2007 Feb 
2;315(5812):612–7. Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1126/
science.1131669
129.  Williamson P, Wallace DWR, Law CS, Boyd PW, Collos Y, 
Croot P, et al. Ocean fertilization for geoengineering: A 
review of effectiveness, environmental impacts and emerging 
governance. Process Safety and Environmental Protection. 
2012 Nov;90(6):475–88. Available from: http://dx.doi.
org/10.1016/j.psep.2012.10.007
130.  Harrison DP. Global negative emissions capacity of ocean 
macronutrient fertilization. Environmental Research Letters. 
2017 Feb 23;12(3):35001. Available from: http://dx.doi.
org/10.1088/1748-9326/aa5ef5
131.   Williamson P, Wallace DWR, Law CS, Boyd PW, Collos Y, 
Croot P, et al. Ocean fertilization for geoengineering: A 
review of effectiveness, environmental impacts and emerging 
governance. Process Safety and Environmental Protection. 
2012 Nov;90(6):475–88. Available from: http://dx.doi.
org/10.1016/j.psep.2012.10.007
132.  Zahariev K, Christian JR, Denman KL. Preindustrial, historical, 
and fertilization simulations using a global ocean carbon 
model with new parameterizations of iron limitation, 
calcification, and N2 fixation. Progress in Oceanography. 2008 
Apr;77(1):56–82. Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.
pocean.2008.01.007
133.  Aumont O, Bopp L. Globalizing results from ocean in 
situ iron fertilization studies. Global Biogeochemical 
Cycles. 2006 Jun;20(2). Available from: http://dx.doi.
org/10.1029/2005GB002591
134.  Siegel D, Buesseler K, Doney S, Sailley S, Behrenfeld M, Boyd 
P. Global assessment of ocean carbon export by combining 
satellite observations and food-web models. Global 
Biogeochemical Cycles. 2014;28(3):181-196.. Available from: 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/2013GB004743
135.  Moore JK, Braucher O. Sedimentary and mineral dust sources 
of dissolved iron to the world ocean. Biogeosciences. 2008 
May 5;5(3):631–56. Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.5194/
bg-5-631-2008
REFERENCES
128 
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL
136.  Baker AR, Weston K, Kelly SD, Voss M, Streu P, Cape JN. 
Dry and wet deposition of nutrients from the tropical Atlantic 
atmosphere: Links to primary productivity and nitrogen 
fixation. Deep Sea Research Part I: Oceanographic Research 
Papers. 2007 Oct;54(10):1704–20. Available from: http://dx.doi.
org/10.1016/j.dsr.2007.07.001
137.   National Research Council. 2015 Climate Intervention: Carbon 
Dioxide Removal and Reliable Sequestration. See https://www.
nap.edu/download/18805 (accessed 30 May 2018)
138.  Harrison DP. A method for estimating the cost to sequester 
carbon dioxide by delivering iron to the ocean. International 
Journal of Global Warming. 2013;5(3):231. Available from: 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1504/IJGW.2013.055360
139.  Experiment Earth? (Ipsos Mori, 2010); https://go.nature.
com/2Hy4D3a 
140.  Palmgren CR, Morgan MG, Bruine de Bruin W, Keith DW. Initial 
Public Perceptions of Deep Geological and Oceanic Disposal 
of Carbon Dioxide. Environmental Science & Technology. 
2004 Dec;38(24):6441–50. Available from: http://dx.doi.
org/10.1021/es040400c
141.   Capstick SB, Pidgeon NF, Corner AJ, Spence EM, Pearson PN. 
Public understanding in Great Britain of ocean acidification. 
Nature Climate Change. 2016 Aug;6(8):763.
142.  Convention on the Prevention of Marine Pollution by Dumping 
of Wastes and Other Matter. 1996 International Maritime 
Organisation. http://www.imo.org/en/OurWork/Environment/
LCLP/Pages/default.aspx
143.  Read DJ, Freer-Smith PH, Morison JIL, Hanley N West CC, 
and Snowdon, P. (eds). 2009. Combating climate change – a 
role for UK forests. An assessment of the potential of the UK’s 
trees and woodlands to mitigate and adapt to climate change. 
The synthesis report. The Stationery Office, Edinburgh.
144.  Ramage MH, Burridge H, Busse-Wicher M, Fereday G, 
Reynolds T, Shah DU, et al. The wood from the trees: The use 
of timber in construction. Renewable and Sustainable Energy 
Reviews. 2017 Feb;68:333–59. Available from: http://dx.doi.
org/10.1016/j.rser.2016.09.107
145.  Sharma B, Gatóo A, Bock M, Ramage M. Engineered bamboo 
for structural applications. Construction and Building Materials. 
2015 Apr;81:66–73. Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.
conbuildmat.2015.01.077 
146.  Ramage MH, Burridge H, Busse-Wicher M, Fereday G, 
Reynolds T, Shah DU, et al. The wood from the trees: The use 
of timber in construction. Renewable and Sustainable Energy 
Reviews. 2017 Feb;68:333–59. Available from: http://dx.doi.
org/10.1016/j.rser.2016.09.107
147.   McLaren D. A comparative global assessment of potential 
negative emissions technologies. Process Safety and 
Environmental Protection. 2012 Nov;90(6):489–500. Available 
from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.psep.2012.10.005
148.  Oliver CD, Nassar NT, Lippke BR, McCarter JB. Carbon, Fossil 
Fuel, and Biodiversity Mitigation With Wood and Forests. 
Journal of Sustainable Forestry. 2014 Mar 28;33(3):248–75. 
Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/10549811.2013.839386
149.  Aye L, Ngo T, Crawford RH, Gammampila R, Mendis P. 
Life cycle greenhouse gas emissions and energy analysis 
of prefabricated reusable building modules. Energy and 
Buildings. 2012 Apr;47:159–68. Available from: http://dx.doi.
org/10.1016/j.enbuild.2011.11.049
150.  UK could store 3.8 million tonnes of CO2 annually in new 
build timber homes. Wood for Good. 22 September 2014. See 
https://woodforgood.com/news-and-views/2014/09/22/uk-
could-store-3.8-million-tonnes-of-co2-annually-in-new-build-
timber-homes/ (accessed 30 May 2018)
151.   Ramage MH, Burridge H, Busse-Wicher M, Fereday G, 
Reynolds T, Shah DU, et al. The wood from the trees: The use 
of timber in construction. Renewable and Sustainable Energy 
Reviews. 2017 Feb;68:333–59. Available from: http://dx.doi.
org/10.1016/j.rser.2016.09.107
152.  Gustavsson L, Sathre R. Variability in energy and carbon 
dioxide balances of wood and concrete building materials. 
Building and Environment. 2006 Jul;41(7):940–51. Available 
from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.buildenv.2005.04.008 
153.  Buchanan AH, Honey BG. Energy and carbon dioxide 
implications of building construction. Energy and Buildings. 
1994 Jan;20(3):205–17. Available from: http://dx.doi.
org/10.1016/0378-7788(94)90024-8
154.  Gustavsson L, Sathre R. Variability in energy and carbon 
dioxide balances of wood and concrete building materials. 
Building and Environment. 2006 Jul;41(7):940–51. Available 
from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.buildenv.2005.04.008 
155.  Oliver CD, Nassar NT, Lippke BR, McCarter JB. Carbon, Fossil 
Fuel, and Biodiversity Mitigation With Wood and Forests. 
Journal of Sustainable Forestry. 2014 Mar 28;33(3):248–75. 
Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/10549811.2013.839386
156.  McLaren D. A comparative global assessment of potential 
negative emissions technologies. Process Safety and 
Environmental Protection. 2012 Nov;90(6):489–500. Available 
from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.psep.2012.10.005
157.   Read DJ, Freer-Smith PH, Morison JIL, Hanley N, West CC, and 
Snowdon P. (eds). 2009. Combating climate change – a role 
for UK forests. An assessment of the potential of the UK’s trees 
and woodlands to mitigate and adapt to climate change. The 
synthesis report. The Stationery Office, Edinburgh.
158.  Seto KC, Guneralp B, Hutyra LR. Global forecasts of urban 
expansion to 2030 and direct impacts on biodiversity and 
carbon pools. Proceedings of the National Academy of 
Sciences. 2012 Sep 17;109(40):16083–8. Available from: http://
dx.doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1211658109
159.  Gosselin A, Blanchet P, Lehoux N, Cimon Y. Main Motivations 
and Barriers for Using Wood in Multi-Story and Non-
Residential Construction Projects. BioResources. 2016 
Nov 23;12(1). Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.15376/
biores.12.1.546-570
160.  Committee on Climate Change. 2017 Meeting carbon budgets: 
Closing the policy gap. See https://www.theccc.org.uk/wp-
content/uploads/2017/06/2017-Report-to-Parliament-Meeting-
Carbon-Budgets-Closing-the-policy-gap.pdf (accessed 30 
May 2018).
161.  Walker P. 2017 Fears grow over safety of timber-framed blocks 
of flats after Grenfell fire. The Guardian 17 July 2017. See https://
www.theguardian.com/uk-news/2017/jul/17/fears-use-timber-
frames-blocks-flats-grenfell-tower-fire (accessed 30 May 2018).
162.  Taylor LL, Leake JR, Quirk J, Hardy K, Banwart SA, Beerling 
DJ. Biological weathering and the long-term carbon cycle: 
integrating mycorrhizal evolution and function into the current 
paradigm. Geobiology. 2009 Mar;7(2):171–91. Available from: 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/j.1472-4669.2009.00194.x
REFERENCES
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL 
129
163.  Smith P, Davis SJ, Creutzig F, Fuss S, Minx J, Gabrielle B, et al. 
Biophysical and economic limits to negative CO2 emissions. 
Nature Climate Change. 2015 Dec 7;6(1):42–50. Available 
from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/nclimate2870
164.   Renforth P. The potential of enhanced weathering in the 
UK. International Journal of Greenhouse Gas Control. 2012 
Sep;10:229–43. Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.
ijggc.2012.06.011
165.  Kantola IB, Masters MD, Beerling DJ, Long SP, DeLucia 
EH. Potential of global croplands and bioenergy crops for 
climate change mitigation through deployment for enhanced 
weathering. Biology Letters. 2017 Apr;13(4):20160714. Available 
from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsbl.2016.0714
166.  Beerling DJ, Leake JR, Long SP, Scholes JD, Ton J, Nelson PN, 
et al. Farming with crops and rocks to address global climate, 
food and soil security. Nature Plants. 2018 Feb 19;4(3):138–47. 
Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/s41477-018-0108-y
167.   Renforth P, Washbourne C-L, Taylder J, Manning DAC. 
Silicate Production and Availability for Mineral Carbonation. 
Environmental Science & Technology. 2011 Mar 15;45(6):2035–
41. Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/es103241w
168.  Renforth P. The potential of enhanced weathering in the 
UK. International Journal of Greenhouse Gas Control. 2012 
Sep;10:229–43. Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.
ijggc.2012.06.011
169.  Tubana BS, Babu T, Datnoff LE. A Review of Silicon in Soils 
and Plants and Its Role in US Agriculture. Soil Science. 
2016 Oct;1. Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1097/
SS.0000000000000179
170.    Beerling DJ, Leake JR, Long SP, Scholes JD, Ton J, Nelson PN, 
et al. Farming with crops and rocks to address global climate, 
food and soil security. Nature Plants. 2018 Feb 19;4(3):138–47. 
Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/s41477-018-0108-y
171.    Fritz S, See L, van der Velde M, Nalepa RA, Perger C, Schill 
C, et al. Downgrading Recent Estimates of Land Available 
for Biofuel Production. Environmental Science & Technology. 
2013 Jan 11;130128103203003. Available from: http://dx.doi.
org/10.1021/es303141h
172.  Edwards DP, Lim F, James RH, Pearce CR, Scholes J, 
Freckleton RP, et al. Climate change mitigation: potential 
benefits and pitfalls of enhanced rock weathering in tropical 
agriculture. Biology Letters. 2017 Apr;13(4):20160715. Available 
from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsbl.2016.0715
173.    Renforth P. The potential of enhanced weathering in the 
UK. International Journal of Greenhouse Gas Control. 2012 
Sep;10:229–43. Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.
ijggc.2012.06.011
174.    Pidgeon NF, Spence E. Perceptions of enhanced weathering 
as a biological negative emissions option. Biology Letters. 
2017 Apr;13(4):20170024. Available from: http://dx.doi.
org/10.1098/rsbl.2017.0024
175.  Wright MJ, Teagle DAH, Feetham PM. A quantitative evaluation 
of the public response to climate engineering. Nature Climate 
Change. 2014 Jan 12;4(2):106–10. Available from: http://dx.doi.
org/10.1038/nclimate2087
176.  Renforth P, Kruger T. Coupling Mineral Carbonation and 
Ocean Liming. Energy & Fuels. 2013 Feb 22;27(8):4199–207. 
Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/ef302030w
177.   Snæbjörnsdóttir SÓ, Gislason SR, Galeczka IM, Oelkers EH. 
Reaction path modelling of in-situ mineralisation of CO 2 at 
the CarbFix site at Hellisheidi, SW-Iceland. Geochimica et 
Cosmochimica Acta. 2018 Jan;220:348–66. Available from: 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.gca.2017.09.053 
178.   Gerdemann SJ, O’Connor WK, Dahlin DC, Penner LR, Rush H. 
Ex Situ Aqueous Mineral Carbonation. Environmental Science 
& Technology. 2007 Apr;41(7):2587–93. Available from: http://
dx.doi.org/10.1021/es0619253
179.   Cuéllar-Franca RM, Azapagic A. Carbon capture, storage and 
utilisation technologies: A critical analysis and comparison 
of their life cycle environmental impacts. Journal of CO2 
Utilization. 2015 Mar;9:82–102. Available from: http://dx.doi.
org/10.1016/j.jcou.2014.12.001
180.  Sanna A, Uibu M, Caramanna G, Kuusik R, Maroto-Valer MM. A 
review of mineral carbonation technologies to sequester CO2. 
Chem Soc Rev. 2014;43(23):8049–80. Available from: http://
dx.doi.org/10.1039/C4CS00035H
181.   Matter JM, Kelemen PB. Permanent storage of carbon dioxide 
in geological reservoirs by mineral carbonation. Nature 
Geoscience. 2009 Nov 8;2(12):837–41. Available from: http://
dx.doi.org/10.1038/ngeo683
182.  Matter JM, Stute M, Snaebjornsdottir SO, Oelkers EH, 
Gislason SR, Aradottir ES, et al. Rapid carbon mineralization 
for permanent disposal of anthropogenic carbon dioxide 
emissions. Science. 2016 Jun 9;352(6291):1312–4. Available 
from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1126/science.aad8132
183.  De Beers. 2017 De Beers pioneers research programme 
to make carbon-neutral mining a reality. See https://www.
debeersgroup.com/en/news/company-news/company-news/
de-beers-pioneers-research-programme-to-make-carbon-
neutral-mini.html (accessed 30 May 2018).
184.  Renforth P, Henderson G. Assessing ocean alkalinity 
for carbon sequestration. Reviews of Geophysics. 
2017 Jul 27;55(3):636–74. Available from: http://dx.doi.
org/10.1002/2016RG000533
185.  González MF, Ilyina T. Impacts of artificial ocean alkalinization 
on the carbon cycle and climate in Earth system simulations. 
Geophysical Research Letters. 2016 Jun 21;43(12):6493–502. 
Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/2016GL068576
186.  Renforth P, Henderson G. Assessing ocean alkalinity 
for carbon sequestration. Reviews of Geophysics. 
2017 Jul 27;55(3):636–74. Available from: http://dx.doi.
org/10.1002/2016RG000533
187.   Renforth P, Jenkins BG, Kruger T. Engineering challenges of 
ocean liming. Energy. 2013 Oct;60:442–52. Available from: 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.energy.2013.08.006
188.  Kruger T. Increasing the Alkalinity of the Ocean to Enhance its 
Capacity to Act as a Carbon Sink and to Counteract the Effect 
of Ocean Acidification. GeoConvention 2010.
189.  Feng EY, Keller DP, Koeve W, Oschlies A. Could artificial 
ocean alkalinization protect tropical coral ecosystems from 
ocean acidification? Environmental Research Letters. 2016 
Jul 1;11(7):74008. Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1088/1748-
9326/11/7/074008
190.  Rau GH, Knauss KG, Langer WH, Caldeira K. Reducing 
energy-related CO2 emissions using accelerated weathering 
of limestone. Energy. 2007 Aug;32(8):1471–7. Available from: 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.energy.2006.10.011
REFERENCES
130 
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL
191.   Renforth P, Jenkins BG, Kruger T. Engineering challenges of 
ocean liming. Energy. 2013 Oct;60:442–52. Available from: 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.energy.2013.08.006
192.  Renforth P, Jenkins BG, Kruger T. Engineering challenges of 
ocean liming. Energy. 2013 Oct;60:442–52. Available from: 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.energy.2013.08.006
193.  Paquay FS, Zeebe RE. Assessing possible consequences of 
ocean liming on ocean pH, atmospheric CO2 concentration 
and associated costs. International Journal of Greenhouse 
Gas Control. 2013 Sep;17:183–8. Available from: http://dx.doi.
org/10.1016/j.ijggc.2013.05.005
194.  Convention on the Prevention of Marine Pollution by Dumping 
of Wastes and Other Matter. 1996 International Maritime 
Organisation. http://www.imo.org/en/OurWork/Environment/
LCLP/Pages/default.aspx
195.  Beillo D. 2013 400 PPM: Can Artificial Trees Help Pull CO2 
from the Air? Scientific American. 16 May 2013. See https://
www.scientificamerican.com/article/prospects-for-direct-air-
capture-of-carbon-dioxide/ (accessed 30 May 2018).
196.  Infinitree. See http://www.infinitreellc.com/technology/ 
(accessed 30 May 2018).
197.   Climeworks, See http://www.climeworks.com/our-technology/ 
(accessed 30 May 2018).
198.  Thermostat. See http://globalthermostat.com/a-unique-
capture-process/ (accessed 30 May 2018)
199.  Carbon Engineering. See http://carbonengineering.com/
about-dac/ (accessed 30 May 2018)
200.  McGlashan N, Workman M, Caldecott B, Shah N. 2012 
Negative emissions technologies - Grantham Briefing Paper 8. 
See https://www.imperial.ac.uk/grantham/publications/briefing-
papers/negative-emissions-technologies---grantham-briefing-
paper-8.php (accessed 30 May 2018)
201.   Sanz-Pérez ES, Murdock CR, Didas SA, Jones CW. Direct 
Capture of CO2 from Ambient Air. Chemical Reviews. 
2016 Aug 25;116(19):11840–76. Available from: http://dx.doi.
org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00173
202.   Holloway S. Sequestration—the underground storage of 
carbon dioxide. InClimate Change and Energy Pathways for 
the Mediterranean 2008 (pp. 61-88). Springer, Dordrecht.
203.   British Geological Survey. 2006 Industrial carbon dioxide 
emissions and carbon dioxide storage potential in the 
UK. See https://www.globalccsinstitute.com/publications/
industrial-carbon-dioxide-emissions-and-carbon-dioxide-
storage-potential-uk (accessed 30 May 2018) 
204.   Lackner KS. The thermodynamics of direct air capture of 
carbon dioxide. Energy. 2013 Feb;50:38–46. Available from: 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.energy.2012.09.012
205.   van der Giesen C, Meinrenken CJ, Kleijn R, Sprecher B, 
Lackner KS, Kramer GJ. A Life Cycle Assessment Case 
Study of Coal-Fired Electricity Generation with Humidity 
Swing Direct Air Capture of CO2 versus MEA-Based 
Postcombustion Capture. Environmental Science & 
Technology. 2016 Dec 23;51(2):1024–34. Available from: 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/acs.est.6b05028
206.   McGlashan N, Shah N, Caldecott B, Workman M. High-
level techno-economic assessment of negative emissions 
technologies. Process Safety and Environmental Protection. 
2012 Nov;90(6):501–10. Available from: http://dx.doi.
org/10.1016/j.psep.2012.10.004
207.   Sanz-Pérez ES, Murdock CR, Didas SA, Jones CW. Direct 
Capture of CO2 from Ambient Air. Chemical Reviews. 
2016 Aug 25;116(19):11840–76. Available from: http://dx.doi.
org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00173
208.    Keith DW, Holmes G, St. Angelo D, Heidel K. A Process for 
Capturing CO 2 from the Atmosphere. Joule. 2018 Jun; 
Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.joule.2018.05.006 
209.   Greenhouse gases must be scrubbed from the air. The 
Economist. 16 November 2017. See https://www.economist.
com/news/briefing/21731386-cutting-emissions-will-not-be-
enough-keep-global-warming-check-greenhouse-gases-
must-be (accessed 30 May 2018)
210.   IPCC. 2014 Climate Change 2014: Mitigation of Climate 
Change. Contribution of Working Group III to the Fifth 
Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on 
Climate Change [Edenhofer, O., R. Pichs-Madruga, Y. 
Sokona, E. Farahani, S. Kadner, K. Seyboth, A. Adler, I. Baum, 
S. Brunner, P. Eickemeier, B. Kriemann, J. Savolainen, S. 
Schlömer, C. von Stechow, T. Zwickel and J.C. Minx (eds.)]. 
Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, United Kingdom 
and New York, NY, USA.
211.    Krausmann F, Wiedenhofer D, Lauk C, Haas W, Tanikawa 
H, Fishman T et al, Global socioeconomic material stocks 
rise 23-fold over the 20th century and require half of annual 
resource use. 2017 Feb; 114(8):1880-1885. Available from: 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1613773114
212.    Shi C, He F, Wu Y. Effect of pre-conditioning on CO2 curing 
of lightweight concrete blocks mixtures. Construction and 
Building Materials. 2012 Jan;26(1):257–67. Available from: 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.conbuildmat.2011.06.020
213.   Ghouleh Z, Guthrie RIL, Shao Y. Production of carbonate 
aggregates using steel slag and carbon dioxide for 
carbon-negative concrete. Journal of CO2 Utilization. 2017 
Mar;18:125–38. Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.
jcou.2017.01.009
214.   Gunning PJ, Hills CD, Carey PJ. Accelerated carbonation 
treatment of industrial wastes. Waste Management. 2010 
Jun;30(6):1081–90. Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.
wasman.2010.01.005
215.   Giannoulakis S, Volkart K, Bauer C. Life cycle and cost 
assessment of mineral carbonation for carbon capture and 
storage in European power generation. International Journal 
of Greenhouse Gas Control. 2014 Feb;21:140–57. Available 
from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.ijggc.2013.12.002
216.   Huijgen WJJ, Comans RNJ, Witkamp G-J. Cost 
evaluation of CO2 sequestration by aqueous mineral 
carbonation. Energy Conversion and Management. 2007 
Jul;48(7):1923–35. Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.
enconman.2007.01.035
217.     Sanna A, Uibu M, Caramanna G, Kuusik R, Maroto-Valer MM. 
A review of mineral carbonation technologies to sequester 
CO2. Chem Soc Rev. 2014;43(23):8049–80. Available from: 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/C4CS00035H
218.   Smith P, Friedmann J. Bridging the gap—carbon dioxide 
removal. In The UNEP emissions Gap report 2017: a UN 
environment synthesis report (eds J Christensen et al.), pp. 
58–66. Nairobi, Kenya: UNEP Available from: https://wedocs.
unep.org/bitstream/handle/20.500.11822/22070/EGR_2017.pdf
REFERENCES
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL 
131
219.   Seto KC, Guneralp B, Hutyra LR. Global forecasts of urban 
expansion to 2030 and direct impacts on biodiversity and carbon 
pools. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. 2012 
Sep 17;109(40):16083–8. Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1073/
pnas.1211658109
220.    McLaren D. A comparative global assessment of potential 
negative emissions technologies. Process Safety and 
Environmental Protection. 2012 Nov;90(6):489–500. Available 
from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.psep.2012.10.005
221.    Amirova S. One Possibility for Atmosphere CO2 Purification to 
Get Climate Recovery. Science Discovery. 2015;3(2):1. Available 
from: http://dx.doi.org/10.11648/j.sd.s.2015030201.11
222.    Strand SE, Benford G. Ocean Sequestration of Crop Residue 
Carbon: Recycling Fossil Fuel Carbon Back to Deep Sediments. 
Environmental Science & Technology. 2009 Feb 15;43(4):1000–
7. Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/es8015556
223.    Lovelock JE, Rapley CG. Ocean pipes could help the Earth to 
cure itself. Nature. 2007 Sep;449(7161):403–403. Available from: 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/449403a
224.    http://www.climatefoundation.org/marine-permaculture.html
225.    Yool A, Shepherd JG, Bryden HL, Oschlies A. Low efficiency of 
nutrient translocation for enhancing oceanic uptake of carbon 
dioxide. Journal of Geophysical Research. 2009 Aug 21;114(C8). 
Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1029/2008JC004792
226.    Zhou S, Flynn PC. Geoengineering Downwelling Ocean 
Currents: A Cost Assessment. Climatic Change. 2005 Jul;71(1–
2):203–20. Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s10584-005-
5933-0
227.    Agee E, Orton A, Rogers J. CO2Snow Deposition in Antarctica 
to Curtail Anthropogenic Global Warming. Journal of Applied 
Meteorology and Climatology. 2013 Feb;52(2):281–8. Available 
from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1175/JAMC-D-12-0110.1
228.    N‘Yeurt A de R, Chynoweth DP, Capron ME, Stewart JR, Hasan 
MA. Negative carbon via Ocean Afforestation. Process Safety 
and Environmental Protection. 2012 Nov;90(6):467–74. Available 
from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.psep.2012.10.008
229.    Rau GH. Electrochemical Splitting of Calcium Carbonate 
to Increase Solution Alkalinity: Implications for Mitigation of 
Carbon Dioxide and Ocean Acidity. Environmental Science & 
Technology. 2008 Dec;42(23):8935–40. Available from: http://
dx.doi.org/10.1021/es800366q
230.    Rau GH, Willauer, HD, Ren ZJ. The global potential for 
converting renewable electricity to negative-CO2-emissions 
hydrogen. Nature Climate Change 2018 Available from: https://
doi.org/10.1038/s41558-018-0203-0
231.    Nisbet EG, Dlugokencky EJ, Manning MR, Lowry D, Fisher 
RE, France JL, et al. Rising atmospheric methane: 2007-
2014 growth and isotopic shift. Global Biogeochemical 
Cycles. 2016 Sep;30(9):1356–70. Available from: http://dx.doi.
org/10.1002/2016GB005406
232.    De Richter R, Ming T, Davies P, Liu W, Caillol S. Removal of 
non-CO2 greenhouse gases by large-scale atmospheric solar 
photocatalysis. Progress in Energy and Combustion Science. 
2017 May;60:68–96. Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.
pecs.2017.01.001
233.    Catalytic Clothing. See http://www.catalytic-clothing.org/ 
(accessed 30 May 2018)
234.   Smith P. Soil carbon sequestration and biochar as negative 
emission technologies. Global Change Biology. 2016 Jan 
6;22(3):1315–24. Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/gcb.13178
235.   Griscom BW, Adams J, Ellis PW, Houghton RA, Lomax G, Miteva 
DA, et al. Natural climate solutions. Proceedings of the National 
Academy of Sciences. 2017 Oct 16;114(44):11645–50. Available 
from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1710465114
236.    Smith P, Davis SJ, Creutzig F, Fuss S, Minx J, Gabrielle B, et al. 
Biophysical and economic limits to negative CO2 emissions. 
Nature Climate Change. 2015 Dec 7;6(1):42–50. Available from: 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/nclimate2870
237.    Griscom BW, Adams J, Ellis PW, Houghton RA, Lomax G, Miteva 
DA, et al. Natural climate solutions. Proceedings of the National 
Academy of Sciences. 2017 Oct 16;114(44):11645–50. Available 
from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1710465114
238.    Smith P. Soil carbon sequestration and biochar as negative 
emission technologies. Global Change Biology. 2016 Jan 
6;22(3):1315–24. Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/gcb.13178
239.    Fuss S, Lamb WF, Callaghan MW, Hilaire J, Creutzig F, Amann 
T, et al. Negative emissions—Part 2: Costs, potentials and 
side effects. Environmental Research Letters. 2018 May 
21;13(6):63002. https://doi.org/10.1088/1748-9326/aabf9f
240.    Woolf D, Amonette JE, Street-Perrott FA, Lehmann J, Joseph S. 
Sustainable biochar to mitigate global climate change. Nature 
Communications. 2010 Aug;1(5):1–9. Available from: http://dx.doi.
org/10.1038/ncomms1053 
241.    Smith P. Soil carbon sequestration and biochar as negative 
emission technologies. Global Change Biology. 2016 Jan 
6;22(3):1315–24. Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/gcb.13178
242.    Fuss S, Lamb WF, Callaghan MW, Hilaire J, Creutzig F, Amann 
T, et al. Negative emissions—Part 2: Costs, potentials and 
side effects. Environmental Research Letters. 2018 May 
21;13(6):63002. https://doi.org/10.1088/1748-9326/aabf9f
243.    Smith P, Davis SJ, Creutzig F, Fuss S, Minx J, Gabrielle B, et al. 
Biophysical and economic limits to negative CO2 emissions. 
Nature Climate Change. 2015 Dec 7;6(1):42–50. Available from: 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/nclimate2870
244.    Bhave A, Taylor RHS, Fennell P, Livingston WR, Shah N, Dowell 
NM, et al. Screening and techno-economic assessment of 
biomass-based power generation with CCS technologies to 
meet 2050 CO 2 targets. Applied Energy. 2017 Mar;190:481–9. 
Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2016.12.120
245.    National Research Council. 2015 Climate Intervention: Carbon 
Dioxide Removal and Reliable Sequestration. See https://www.
nap.edu/download/18805 (accessed 30 May 2018)
246.    Harrison DP. A method for estimating the cost to sequester 
carbon dioxide by delivering iron to the ocean. International 
Journal of Global Warming. 2013;5(3):231. Available from: http://
dx.doi.org/10.1504/IJGW.2013.055360
247.    McLaren D. A comparative global assessment of potential 
negative emissions technologies. Process Safety and 
Environmental Protection. 2012 Nov;90(6):489–500. Available 
from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.psep.2012.10.005
248.   Renforth P. The potential of enhanced weathering in the 
UK. International Journal of Greenhouse Gas Control. 2012 
Sep;10:229–43. Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.
ijggc.2012.06.011
249.    Smith P, Davis SJ, Creutzig F, Fuss S, Minx J, Gabrielle B, et al. 
Biophysical and economic limits to negative CO2 emissions. 
Nature Climate Change. 2015 Dec 7;6(1):42–50. Available from: 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/nclimate2870
REFERENCES
132 
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL
250.   Sanna A, Uibu M, Caramanna G, Kuusik R, Maroto-Valer MM. A 
review of mineral carbonation technologies to sequester CO2. 
Chem Soc Rev. 2014;43(23):8049–80. Available from: http://
dx.doi.org/10.1039/C4CS00035H
251.    González MF, Ilyina T. Impacts of artificial ocean alkalinization 
on the carbon cycle and climate in Earth system simulations. 
Geophysical Research Letters. 2016 Jun 21;43(12):6493–502. 
Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/2016GL068576
252.    Renforth P, Jenkins BG, Kruger T. Engineering challenges of 
ocean liming. Energy. 2013 Oct;60:442–52. Available from: 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.energy.2013.08.006
253.    Sanz-Pérez ES, Murdock CR, Didas SA, Jones CW. Direct 
Capture of CO2 from Ambient Air. Chemical Reviews. 2016 Aug 
25;116(19):11840–76. Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/acs.
chemrev.6b00173
254.    Keith DW, Holmes G, St. Angelo D, Heidel K. A Process for 
Capturing CO 2 from the Atmosphere. Joule. 2018 Jun; 
Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.joule.2018.05.006
255.    Fuss S, Lamb WF, Callaghan MW, Hilaire J, Creutzig F, Amann 
T, et al. Negative emissions—Part 2: Costs, potentials and 
side effects. Environmental Research Letters. 2018 May 
21;13(6):63002. https://doi.org/10.1088/1748-9326/aabf9f
256.    Ghouleh Z, Guthrie RIL, Shao Y. Production of carbonate 
aggregates using steel slag and carbon dioxide for carbon-
negative concrete. Journal of CO2 Utilization. 2017 Mar;18:125–
38. Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jcou.2017.01.009
257.    Huijgen WJJ, Comans RNJ, Witkamp G-J. Cost evaluation of 
CO2 sequestration by aqueous mineral carbonation. Energy 
Conversion and Management. 2007 Jul;48(7):1923–35. 
Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.enconman.2007.01.035
258.    Sanna A, Uibu M, Caramanna G, Kuusik R, Maroto-Valer MM. A 
review of mineral carbonation technologies to sequester CO2. 
Chem Soc Rev. 2014;43(23):8049–80. Available from: http://
dx.doi.org/10.1039/C4CS00035H
259.    Kreidenweis U, Humpenöder F, Stevanović M, Bodirsky BL, 
Kriegler E, Lotze-Campen H et al. Afforestation to mitigate 
climate change: impacts on food prices under consideration 
of albedo effects Environmental Research Letters. 2016 July 
11:065001. Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1088/1748-
9326/11/8/085001
260.    Gunning PJ, Hills CD, Carey PJ. Accelerated carbonation 
treatment of industrial wastes. Waste Management. 2010 
Jun;30(6):1081–90. Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.
wasman.2010.01.005
261.   Creutzig F. Economic and ecological views on climate change 
mitigation with bioenergy and negative emissions. GCB 
Bioenergy. 2014 Dec 22;8(1):4–10. Available from: http://dx.doi.
org/10.1111/gcbb.12235
262.   Smith LJ, Torn MS. Ecological limits to terrestrial biological 
carbon dioxide removal. Climatic Change. 2013 Feb 6;118(1):89–
103. Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s10584-012-0682-3
263.    Beerling DJ, Leake JR, Long SP, Scholes JD, Ton J, Nelson PN, 
et al. Farming with crops and rocks to address global climate, 
food and soil security. Nature Plants. 2018 Feb 19;4(3):138–47. 
Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/s41477-018-0108-y
264.   IPPC. 2005 Carbon Dioxide Capture and Storage. See https://
www.ipcc.ch/report/srccs/ (accessed 30 May 2018)
265.   Energy Technologies Institute. 2016 Progressing Development 
of the UK’s Strategic Carbon Dioxide Storage Resource. 
See https://s3-eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/assets.eti.co.uk/
legacyUploads/2016/04/D16-10113ETIS-WP6-Report-Publishable-
Summary.pdf (accessed 30 May 2018)
266.    Global CCS Institute. 2006 Industrial Carbon Dioxide Emissions 
and Carbon Dioxide Storage Potential in the UK. See https://
www.globalccsinstitute.com/publications/industrial-carbon-
dioxide-emissions-and-carbon-dioxide-storage-potential-uk 
(accessed 30 May 2018)
267.    IPPC. 2005 Carbon Dioxide Capture and Storage. See https://
www.ipcc.ch/report/srccs/ (accessed 30 May 2018)
268.    IPPC. 2005 Carbon Dioxide Capture and Storage. See https://
www.ipcc.ch/report/srccs/ (accessed 30 May 2018)
269.    World Bank; Ecofys; Vivid Economics. 2017. State and Trends of 
Carbon Pricing 2017. Washington, DC: World Bank. See https://
openknowledge.worldbank.org/handle/10986/28510 (accessed 
30 May 2018).
270.    World Bank. 2018 Report of the High-Level Commission 
on Carbon Prices. See http://policydialogue.org/files/
publications/papers/CarbonPricing_Final_May29.pdf 
(accessed 30 May 2018)
271.    Hope C, Hope M. The social cost of CO2 in a low-growth world. 
Nature Climate Change. 2013 Jul 2;3(8):722–4. Available from: 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/nclimate1935
272.    World Bank; Ecofys; Vivid Economics. 2017. State and Trends of 
Carbon Pricing 2017. Washington, DC: World Bank. See https://
openknowledge.worldbank.org/handle/10986/28510 (accessed 
30 May 2018).
273.    Fankhauser et al, 2011 Fankhauser et al, 2011 Fankhauser et 
al, 2011 Fankhauser S, Hepburn C, Park J. Combining multiple 
climate policy instruments: how not to do it. Climate Change 
Economics. 2010 Dec;1(3):209–25. Available from: http://dx.doi.
org/10.1142/S2010007810000169
274.    Oxburgh Amendment 2017 UK Parliament. 2017 Carbon Capture 
and Storage (Amendment).
275.    Hepburn C, Pless J, Popp D. Policy Brief—Encouraging 
Innovation that Protects Environmental Systems: Five Policy 
Proposals. Review of Environmental Economics and Policy. 
2018;12(1):154–69. Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1093/reep/
rex024
276.    Rajagopal D, Plevin RJ. Implications of market-mediated 
emissions and uncertainty for biofuel policies. Energy Policy. 
2013 May;56:75–82. Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.
enpol.2012.09.076 
277.    Peters GP, Le Quéré C, Andrew RM, Canadell JG, Friedlingstein 
P, Ilyina T, et al. Towards real-time verification of CO2 emissions. 
Nature Climate Change. 2017 Nov 13;7(12):848–50. Available 
from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/s41558-017-0013-9
278.   Peters GP, Andrew RM, Canadell JG, Fuss S, Jackson RB, 
Korsbakken JI, et al. Key indicators to track current progress and 
future ambition of the Paris Agreement. Nature Climate Change. 
2017 Jan 30;7(2):118–22. Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/
nclimate3202
279.    Vaughan NE, Gough C, Mander S, Littleton EW, Welfle A, 
Gernaat DEHJ, et al. Evaluating the use of biomass energy 
with carbon capture and storage in low emission scenarios. 
Environmental Research Letters. 2018 Mar 28;13(4):44014. 
Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1088/1748-9326/aaaa02
REFERENCES
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL 
133
280.    McLaren D. Mitigation deterrence and the ‘moral hazard’ of solar 
radiation management. Earth’s Future. 2016 Dec;4(12):596–602. 
Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/2016EF000445
281.     Sørensen K, Williams R. 2002 Shaping technology, guiding 
policy: Concepts, spaces and tools. UK:Edward Elgar Publishers
282.    Borup M, Brown N, Konrad K, Van Lente H. The sociology of 
expectations in science and technology. Technology Analysis 
& Strategic Management. 2006 Jul;18(3–4):285–98. Available 
from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/09537320600777002
283.    McLaren D, Parkhill KA, Corner A, Vaughan NE, Pidgeon NF. 
Public conceptions of justice in climate engineering: Evidence 
from secondary analysis of public deliberation. Global 
Environmental Change. 2016 Nov;41:64–73. Available from: 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.gloenvcha.2016.09.002
284.    Markusson N, Dahl Gjefsen M, Stephens JC, Tyfield D. The 
political economy of technical fixes: The (mis)alignment of clean 
fossil and political regimes. Energy Research & Social Science. 
2017 Jan;23:1–10. Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.
erss.2016.11.004
285.    Anderson K, Peters G. The trouble with negative emissions. 
Science. 2016 Oct 13;354(6309):182–3. Available from: http://
dx.doi.org/10.1126/science.aah4567
286.    Geden O. 2015 Climate advisers must maintain integrity, Nature 
521, 27–28 6 May 2015. See https://www.nature.com/news/
policy-climate-advisers-must-maintain-integrity-1.17468 (accessed 
30 May 2018)
287.    Devine-Wright P. Think global, act local? The relevance of place 
attachments and place identities in a climate changed world. 
Global Environmental Change. 2013 Feb;23(1):61–9. Available 
from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.gloenvcha.2012.08.003 
288.    Cotton M. Fair fracking? Ethics and environmental justice 
in United Kingdom shale gas policy and planning. Local 
Environment. 2016 May 27;22(2):185–202. Available from: http://
dx.doi.org/10.1080/13549839.2016.1186613
289.    Demski C, Butler C, Parkhill KA, Spence A, Pidgeon NF. Public 
values for energy system change. Global Environmental 
Change. 2015 Sep;34:59–69. Available from: http://dx.doi.
org/10.1016/j.gloenvcha.2015.06.014
290.    Bellamy R, Lezaun J, Palmer J. Public perceptions of 
geoengineering research governance: An experimental 
deliberative approach. Global Environmental Change. 2017 
Jul;45:194–202. Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.
gloenvcha.2017.06.004
291.    Corner A, Parkhill K, Pidgeon N, Vaughan NE. Messing with 
nature? Exploring public perceptions of geoengineering 
in the UK. Global Environmental Change. 2013 
Oct;23(5):938–47. Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.
gloenvcha.2013.06.002Corner A. et. al. (2013) Messing with 
nature? Exploring public perceptions of geoengineering in the 
UK Global Environmental Change 23, 938–947.
292.    Deich N. 2015 Direct air capture explained in 10 questions. 
Centre for Carbon Removal Blog. 24 September 2015. 
See http://www.centerforcarbonremoval.org/blog-
posts/2015/9/20/direct-air-capture-explained-in-10-questions 
(accessed 30 May 2018)
293.    Elden S. Secure the volume: Vertical geopolitics and the depth 
of power. Political Geography. 2013 May;34:35–51. Available 
from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.polgeo.2012.12.009
294.   Haggett C. Over the Sea and Far Away? A Consideration 
of the Planning, Politics and Public Perception of Offshore 
Wind Farms. Journal of Environmental Policy & Planning. 
2008 Sep;10(3):289–306. Available from: http://dx.doi.
org/10.1080/15239080802242787
295.    Walker G. 2012 Environmental Justice: Concepts, Evidence and 
Politics. Oxon, UK:Routledge.
296.    Groves C, Munday M, Yakovleva N. Fighting the pipe: neoliberal 
governance and barriers to effective community participation 
in energy infrastructure planning. Environment and Planning 
C: Government and Policy. 2013;31(2):340–56. Available from: 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1068/c11331r
297.    LʼOrange Seigo S, Dohle S, Siegrist M. Public perception of 
carbon capture and storage (CCS): A review. Renewable and 
Sustainable Energy Reviews. 2014 Oct;38:848–63. Available 
from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.rser.2014.07.017
298.    Parkhill KA, Demski C, Butler C, Spence A and Pidgeon N. (2013) 
Transforming the UK Energy System: Public Values, Attitudes 
and Acceptability – Synthesis Report (UKERC: London).
299.    Parkhill K, Demski C, Butler C, Spence A, Pidgeon N. 
Transforming the UK energy system: public values, attitudes and 
acceptability: synthesis report.
300.    Committee on Climate Change. 2016 UK climate action 
following the Paris Agreement. See https://www.theccc.org.uk/
publication/uk-action-following-paris/ (Accessed 30 May 2018)
301.     Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy. 
2018 Updated short-term traded carbon values used for UK 
policy appraisal (2017). See: https://www.gov.uk/government/
publications/updated-short-term-traded-carbon-values-used-for-
uk-policy-appraisal-2017 (accessed 30 May 2018)
302.    Lovett A, Sünnenberg G, Dockerty T. The availability of land 
for perennial energy crops in Great Britain. GCB Bioenergy. 
2013 Dec 6;6(2):99–107. Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/
gcbb.12147
303.    Smith P, Friedmann J. Bridging the gap—carbon dioxide 
removal. In The UNEP emissions Gap report 2017: a UN 
environment synthesis report (eds J Christensen et al.), pp. 
58–66. Nairobi, Kenya: UNEP Available from: https://wedocs.
unep.org/bitstream/handle/20.500.11822/22070/EGR_2017.pdf
304.    Allen MR, Frame DJ, Huntingford C, Jones CD, Lowe JA, 
Meinshausen M, et al. Warming caused by cumulative 
carbon emissions towards the trillionth tonne. Nature. 2009 
Apr;458(7242):1163–6. Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/
nature08019
305.    Leach NJ, Millar RJ, Haustein K, Jenkins S, Graham E, Allen MR. 
Current level and rate of warming determine emissions budgets 
under ambitious mitigation. Nature Geoscience. 2018 Jun 18; 
Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/s41561-018-0156-y
306.    Obersteiner M, Bednar J, Wagner F, Gasser T, Ciais P, Forsell N, 
et al. How to spend a dwindling greenhouse gas budget. Nature 
Climate Change. 2018 Jan;8(1):7–10. Available from: http://dx.doi.
org/10.1038/s41558-017-0045-1
307.    Brandt M, Wigneron J-P, Chave J, Tagesson T, Penuelas J, Ciais 
P, et al. Satellite passive microwaves reveal recent climate-
induced carbon losses in African drylands. Nature Ecology 
& Evolution. 2018 Apr 9;2(5):827–35. Available from: http://
dx.doi.org/10.1038/s41559-018-0530-6
308.    International Energy Agency CCS roadmap. See at: https://
www.iea.org/publications/freepublications/publication/CCS_
roadmap_foldout.pdf [Accessed 30 May 2018)
REFERENCES
134 
GREENHOUSE GAS REMOVAL
ISBN: 978-1-78252-349-9
Issued: September 2018 DES5563_1
The Royal Society 
The Royal Society is a self-governing Fellowship of many 
of the world’s most distinguished scientists drawn from all 
areas of science, engineering, and medicine. The Society’s 
fundamental purpose, as it has been since its foundation 
in 1660, is to recognise, promote, and support excellence 
in science and to encourage the development and use of 
science for the benefit of humanity.
The Society’s strategic priorities emphasise its commitment  
to the highest quality science, to curiosity-driven research, 
and to the development and use of science for the benefit  
of society. These priorities are:
• Promoting excellence in science
• Supporting international collaboration
•  Demonstrating the importance of science to everyone
For further information 
The Royal Society 
6 – 9 Carlton House Terrace 
London SW1Y 5AG
T +44 20 7451 2500 
E science.policy@royalsociety.org 
W royalsociety.org 
Registered Charity No 207043 
Royal Academy of Engineering 
As the UK’s national academy for engineering and 
technology, we bring together the most successful 
and talented engineers from academia and business 
– our Fellows – to advance and promote excellence 
in engineering for the benefit of society.
We harness their experience and expertise to provide 
independent advice to government, to deliver programmes 
that help exceptional engineering researchers and 
innovators realise their potential, to engage the public with 
engineering and to provide leadership for the profession.  
We have three strategic priorities: 
•  Make the UK the leading nation for engineering 
innovation and businesses
•  Address the engineering skills and diversity challenge
•  Position engineering at the heart of society 
We bring together engineers, policy makers, entrepreneurs, 
business leaders, academics, educators and the public in 
pursuit of these goals. 
Engineering is a global profession, so we work with partners 
across the world to advance engineering’s contribution to 
society on an international, as well as a national scale.
For further information 
Royal Academy of Engineering 
Prince Philip House 
3 Carlton House Terrace 
London SW1Y 5DG
T +44 20 7766 0600 
W raeng.org.uk
Registered Charity No 293074
9
781782
523499
