Biomass carbon impacts 
 
Carbon impacts of 
biomass consumed 
in the EU 
Supplementary analysis      
and interpretation for the 
European Climate Foundation 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Robert Matthews, Geoff Hogan and Ewan Mackie 
 
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
 
 
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
i    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
Forest Research is the Research Agency of the Forestry Commission and is the leading 
UK organisation engaged in forestry and tree related research.  The Agency aims to 
support and enhance forestry and its role in sustainable development by providing 
innovative, high quality scientific research, technical support and consultancy services. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Carbon impacts of biomass consumed in the EU: 
Supplementary analysis and interpretation for 
the European Climate Foundation 
 
Robert Matthews, Geoff Hogan and Ewan Mackie (2018) 
Carbon impacts of biomass consumed in the EU: Supplementary analysis and 
interpretation for the European Climate Foundation 
Project report for ECF 
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
ii    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
Contents 
Executive Summary ........................................................................................... iii 
1. Introduction ................................................................................................... 1 
2. Aim of the project ........................................................................................... 2 
3. Approach to quantitative assessment ............................................................. 2 
3.1. Life cycle assessment (LCA) .......................................................................... 3 
3.2. Models ....................................................................................................... 4 
3.3. Approach to modelling land-based carbon impacts ........................................... 4 
3.3.1. The “virtuous circle” argument ................................................................ 5 
3.3.2. The “no-use option” argument ................................................................ 7 
3.3.3. The “maintaining/strengthening vigour” argument .................................... 9 
3.3.4. The “growth more than harvest” argument ............................................ 12 
3.3.5. The “no stemwood/roundwood” argument .............................................. 15 
3.4. Approach to representing ILUC .................................................................... 18 
4. Scenarios ...................................................................................................... 19 
4.1. Definition of scenarios: overall bioenergy consumption .................................. 20 
4.2. Definition of scenarios: approaches to land management and biomass utilization22 
4.2.1. Agricultural land management .............................................................. 23 
4.2.2. Forest management and wood utilization ............................................... 23 
5. Key findings.................................................................................................. 28 
5.1. Total annual GHG emissions ....................................................................... 28 
5.2. GHG impacts of key energy sources ............................................................. 29 
5.2.1. Observations on results for 2030 .......................................................... 31 
5.2.2. Conclusions on results for broad contributions to GHG impacts ................. 32 
5.3. GHG impacts of forest bioenergy ................................................................. 32 
5.4. Cost and technical implications of scenarios .................................................. 36 
5.5. Measures to support forest bioenergy consumption with low GHG emissions ..... 37 
6. Implications for regulation of bioenergy ...................................................... 39 
6.1. General guidelines for bioenergy sources ...................................................... 40 
6.2. Biomass in the RED and proposed REDII ...................................................... 49 
6.2.1. REDII proposal and calculation of GHG impacts....................................... 50 
6.2.2. Implications of proposed calculation methodology ................................... 51 
6.2.3. Other sustainability criteria in the proposed REDII .................................. 52 
6.2.4. Assessment of criteria in proposed REDII ............................................... 54 
6.3. Relevance to bioenergy regulation of national and international action on LULUCF55 
6.3.1. Forest biomass ................................................................................... 57 
7. Discussion .................................................................................................... 58 
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
iii    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
 
Executive Summary 
This report was commissioned from Forest Research by the European Climate Foundation 
(ECF) to provide an elaborated analysis to clarify the findings of a project undertaken for 
the European Commission (DG ENER), known as Carbon Impacts of Biomass Consumed 
in the EU, and latterly referred to as the “Bioimpact Project”. 
The ECF asked Forest Research to further analyse the results gained from the Bioimpact 
Project to deliver insights on 3 key questions pertinent to EU bioenergy policy design: 
Comparison of Bioenergy Scenarios - Based on the Bioimpact Project, provide 
simplified conclusions on the types of bioenergy scenario that will deliver relatively 
higher or lower GHG reductions compared to the baseline scenario. 
Statement of Risk of EU Bioenergy Policy - Based on the answer to the first 
question, provide a statement of the risks associated with EU bioenergy policy, both with 
and without specific measures to ensure sustainable supply. 
Criteria to ensure GHG reductions - Provide a practical set of sustainability criteria to 
ensure that those bio feedstocks used to meet EU bioenergy goals deliver GHG 
reductions, and assess whether the RED II covers these issues. 
1 Comparison of Bioenergy Scenarios 
The scenarios used in this project were the same as in the original Bioimpact project. 
These scenarios were subjected to Consequential Life Cycle Analysis (CLCA). The 
purpose of CLCA is to determine the total collective consequences of a course of action 
or a policy, compared to a counterfactual situation (i.e. in which the action or policy is 
not pursued), without attempting to attribute specific GHG emissions to individual 
components of the system (e.g. specific biomass feedstocks). The following summarises 
the modelling results: 
The scenario of unconstrained bioenergy use (B) and the scenario with higher imported 
wood (C1) achieve the lowest GHG reductions because they emphasize forest 
management and wood utilization practices involving additional harvesting and they 
place less emphasis on the utilization of small/early thinnings, forest residues and 
industrial residues (which deliver higher GHG reductions). 
The scenario that emphasizes domestic forest bioenergy (C3) performs relatively well 
because it emphasizes forest management and wood utilization practices involving 
utilization of small/early thinnings, forest residues and industrial residues (which deliver 
higher GHG reductions) and places less emphasis on additional harvesting above 
baseline levels.  
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
iv    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
The scenario that backs away from bioenergy (D) performs best in terms of GHG 
reductions because the level of forest bioenergy production is lower than in the 
Reference Scenario as a result of the de-prioritization of bioenergy consumption. 
However, there are additional financial costs associated with this scenario. 
The essential implications of these conclusions are that: 
Bioenergy production involving additional harvesting, even if that involves co-production 
as part of additional harvesting, can involve significant risks of high GHG emissions. 
Bioenergy production involving utilization of small/early thinnings, forest residues and 
industrial residues involves low risks and should lead to low GHG emissions. 
2 Statement of Risk of EU Bioenergy Policy  
If a cautious position were to be taken, the project findings lead to the following 
tentative conclusion: 
Unless appropriate policy measures are taken to support sustainable bioenergy supply 
(in terms of impacts on GHG emissions), particularly in the case of forest bioenergy 
supply, a significant increase in bioenergy use in the EU is likely to lead to a net 
increase, rather than decrease, in GHG emissions being contributed from bioenergy 
sources. 
Whilst such a conclusion is reasonable based on the project findings, it should be 
clarified that, strictly, the results should not be interpreted to imply that the increased 
use of bioenergy in the EU must inevitably involve increased GHG emissions. Rather, 
the results strongly indicate that there are significant risks of increases in GHG 
emissions associated with greater bioenergy use, in particular forest bioenergy use, 
unless there are appropriate checks and balances on the supply and consumption of 
bioenergy sources with regard to associated GHG emissions.  Hence, the corollary of this 
conclusion is that: 
If specific measures are taken to ensure only sustainable bioenergy (in terms of impacts 
on GHG emissions) is incentivized, a net decrease, rather than increase, in GHG 
emissions is likely to be associated with bioenergy sources.  
3 Criteria to ensure GHG reductions 
The key findings and conclusions of this project would appear to suggest two major 
policy options with regard to renewable energy and the potential contribution of 
bioenergy towards achieving significant near-term reductions in GHG emissions 
compared to fossil fuels. 
One option would involve de-prioritizing bioenergy in order to avoid potential risks 
associated with some bioenergy sources, whilst noting that this would be likely to require 
at least some of the following: 
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
v    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
• The increased use of other renewable energy sources (particularly solar and wind 
power) 
• More concerted efforts towards energy efficiency or demand-side response in the EU 
region across all sectors, but particularly in the residential and transport sectors 
• Increased use of nuclear power (involving both current and assumed future 
technologies) 
• Increased reliance on imports of natural gas, nuclear fuels and electricity into the EU 
region from elsewhere 
• Some increased deployment of carbon capture and storage technologies (compared 
with scenarios involving higher bioenergy use). 
The alternative option would be to carry on with supporting a contribution from 
bioenergy sources towards targets for renewable energy and GHG emissions reductions, 
whilst putting in place a policy framework capable of ensuring that bioenergy sources 
genuinely lead to significant near-term reductions in GHG emissions compared to fossil 
fuels. 
If this alternative bioenergy option were to be pursued, it is important to recognize that 
this study has identified that bioenergy, and forest bioenergy in particular, can be a 
potential contributor to increased GHG emissions.  However, this is not inevitable if a 
framework is adopted to ensure only agricultural and forest biomass sources that deliver 
genuine emissions reductions are used for energy purposes. The following 15 criteria 
have been proposed provisionally as the basis for such a framework. There are 5 criteria 
concerned with forest management that are optional to take into account. There are 2 
criteria concerned with wood supply and feedstocks which must be considered. If the 
optional forest management criteria are not applied, and in some circumstances 
depending on the outcome of applying these criteria, then 8 conditional criteria related 
to feedstocks must also be taken into account. 
Optional forest management criteria 
1) Deforestation - Disallow supplies of forest bioenergy that lead to deforestation 
2) Afforestation - Strongly favour supplies of forest bioenergy where these are 
explicitly associated with afforestation activities. However, avoid afforestation activities: 
• On soils with existing high organic carbon content  
• That lead to high risks of indirect land-use change. 
3) Improvement of growing stock - Strongly favour supplies of forest bioenergy 
where these are explicitly associated with activities to conserve and enhance forest 
growing stock, carbon stocks and forest productivity  
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
vi    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
4) Growth rate - Disfavour forest bioenergy production from forest areas with low 
growth rates. Tentatively, low growth rate is defined as 2 m3 ha-1 yr-1 or less. Possible 
exemptions in some cases, e.g. disease infested forest areas. 
5) Thinning and clear felling - If the level of supply of forest bioenergy from thinning 
and felling activities in forest areas is consistent with long-term historical levels, and 
with the principle of sustainable yield, then risks of issues with GHG emissions are low. If 
the level of forest bioenergy from thinning and felling activities in forest areas involves 
increased supply compared with long-term historical levels, then favour production from 
thinning over production from felling, with the aims of: 
• Improving the quality of the remaining growing stock 
• Minimising disturbance of litter and soil carbon. 
If, and only if, the level of forest bioenergy from thinning and felling activities in forest 
areas involves increased supply compared with long-term historical levels, then it is 
necessary to consider the conditional criteria as well as the mandatory criterion 
regarding use of wood feedstocks for bioenergy. 
Mandatory wood supply and feedstock criteria 
6) Scale of forest bioenergy use - Aim for levels of forest bioenergy use that are well 
within the long-term sustainable-yield capacity of the supplying forest areas. When 
setting levels for bioenergy use, take account of the consumption of biomass for other 
uses (i.e. materials) and levels of biomass consumption outside the EU region. 
7) Stumps including roots - Strongly disfavour supplies of forest bioenergy from 
stumps including roots. 
Conditional wood feedstock criteria 
8) Post-consumer waste wood - Strongly favour supplies of forest bioenergy from 
post-consumer waste wood. Particularly favour such sources where the waste wood 
would otherwise be burnt or put in landfill without energy recovery. Also favour use of 
waste wood at levels that do not compete with current levels of consumption of such 
feedstocks for material uses (e.g. wood-based panels). 
9) Industrial residues - Strongly favour supplies of forest bioenergy from industrial 
residues. Particularly favour such sources where the residues would otherwise be burnt 
as waste without energy recovery. Also favour use of industrial residues at levels that do 
not compete with current levels of consumption of such feedstocks for material uses 
(e.g. wood-based panels). 
10) Forest residues - Strongly favour supplies of bioenergy from fast-decaying forest 
residues (i.e. apart from stumps including roots or other large residues) provided this 
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
vii    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
avoids levels of extraction of forest residues that lead to high risks of degradation of 
site/soil quality. 
11) Salvage logging - Favour supplies of wood biomass from salvage logging where a 
simply calculated but robust estimate of GHG emissions meets a defined minimum 
threshold. 
12) Whole tree stems - Restrict supplies of forest bioenergy from whole tree stems to 
small/early thinnings with the aim of improving the quality of the remaining growing 
stock. Favour situations in which, otherwise, there would be limited incentives to thin 
and improve forest stands.  
Alternatively, favour supplies of wood biomass from small/early thinnings where a simply 
calculated but robust estimate of GHG emissions meets a defined minimum threshold. 
13) Small Roundwood - Favour supplies of forest bioenergy from small roundwood at 
levels that do not compete with current levels of consumption of such feedstocks for 
material uses. Particularly favour such sources where the small roundwood would 
otherwise be burnt without energy recovery or sent to landfill. 
14) Sawn timber - Strongly disfavour supplies of forest bioenergy from wood 
feedstocks suitable for use for sawn timber products. 
15) Co-production - Strongly favour the supply of forest bioenergy as a by-product of 
wood harvesting for the supply of long-lived material wood products. However, it is very 
important to ensure that flanking measures are in place to ensure that other feedstock 
criteria above are met and to encourage the disposal of material wood products at end of 
life with energy recovery and/or in a way that ensures low GHG emissions. 
The ECF asked Forest Research to review the RED II in its current form and to give an 
indication of whether the above criteria are represented. The RED II makes no specific 
provisions for 9 out of the 15 recommended criteria. For 3 of the 15 recommended 
criteria the RED II might be expected to deliver some indirect, but non-specific, support. 
In 3 of the 15 recommended criteria, the RED will deliver a direct policy signal. 
It is important that those countries seeking to implement the RED II are aware of the 
relevance of the above sustainability criteria for the implementation of the RED II, 
because if the EU bioenergy policy is to meet its stated goal of reducing GHG emissions, 
such criteria will need to be implemented within national policy.
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
1    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
1. Introduction 
This report was commissioned from Forest Research by the European Climate Foundation 
(ECF) to provide an elaborated analysis to clarify the findings of a project undertaken for 
the European Commission (DG ENER), known as Carbon Impacts of Biomass Consumed 
in the EU, and latterly referred to as the “Bioimpact Project”. 
The original project was commissioned by the European Commission (EC) to gain a 
better understanding of the greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions associated with the use of 
biomass for energy in the EU.  The project was a consortium of research institutions in 
the EU consisting of: Forest Research (UK), North Energy Associates (UK), Alterra 
(Netherlands) and VTT Technical Research Centre of Finland. 
In recent years reports of life cycle assessment (LCA) studies of biomass for energy have 
been published that arrive at differing, and sometimes conflicting conclusions about the 
net impact on GHG emissions, and the timescale over which these impacts (negative or 
positive) may be experienced.  At face value it appeared that there was considerable 
uncertainty in the scientific community as to whether the use of bioenergy could lead to 
genuine reductions in GHG emissions or not.  The Bioimpact Project aimed to: 
• Clarify the causes of variability in published estimates of GHG emissions from 
bioenergy use (through a critical review of relevant scientific literature), and 
• Evaluate the potential for bioenergy to contribute towards achieving GHG emissions 
reductions in the EU (through life cycle assessment of selected scenarios for future 
bioenergy use in the EU). 
The outcomes of the project have been documented in a Task 1 report1, presenting the 
review of literature and in a final project report2.  The size of these reports and the scale 
and complexity of the analyses presented can make it difficult to identify the key 
conclusions and messages about the benefits or otherwise of specific bioenergy sources, 
in terms of impacts on GHG emissions.  The purpose of this report is to provide further 
                                       
1 Matthews, R., Sokka, L., Soimakallio, S., Mortimer, N., Rix, J., Schelhaas, M-J., Jenkins, T., 
Hogan, G., Mackie, E., Morris, A. and Randle, T. (2014a) Review of literature on biogenic carbon 
and life cycle assessment of forest bioenergy. Final Task 1 report, EU DG ENER project 
ENER/C1/427, ‘Carbon impacts of biomass consumed in the EU’. Forest Research: Farnham. At: 
http://ec.europa.eu/energy/sites/ener/files/2014_biomass_forest_research_report_.pdf. 
2 Matthews, R.W., Mortimer, N.D., Lesschen, J.P., Lindroos, T.J., Sokka, L., Morris, A., Henshall, 
P.A., Hatto, C., Mwabonje, O., Rix, J., Mackie, E.D., and Sayce, M. (2015) Carbon impacts of 
biomass consumed in the EU: quantitative assessment. Final project report, project: DG 
ENER/C1/427. Part A, Main Report and Part B, Appendices. Forest Research: Farnham, United 
Kingdom.  At: 
https://ec.europa.eu/energy/sites/ener/files/documents/EU%20Carbon%20Impacts%20of%20Bi
omass%20Consumed%20in%20the%20EU%20final.pdf 
https://ec.europa.eu/energy/sites/ener/files/documents/EU%20Carbon%20Impacts%20of%20Bi
omass%20Consumed%20in%20the%20EU%20Appendices%20final.pdf 
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
2    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
analysis and exploration of the project result, highlighting the critical findings and points 
arising from the project regarding bioenergy use in the EU as a contribution towards 
achieving reductions in GHG emissions.  The implications of the conclusions are also 
considered in the context of relevant legislation under development and implementation 
in the EU. 
2. Aim of the project 
The aim of the Bioimpact Project was to perform a qualitative and quantitative 
assessment of the direct and indirect GHG emissions associated with the different types 
of solid and gaseous biomass used in electricity and heating/cooling in the EU under a 
number of scenarios, focussing on the period to 2030 but with indicative projections up 
to 2050, in order to provide objective information on which to base further development 
of policy on the role of biomass as a source of energy with low associated GHG 
emissions.  The qualitative assessment was based on the literature review published as 
the Task 1 report and the quantitative assessment involved the LCA of a set of defined 
scenarios for future bioenergy use in the EU, published in the main report. 
It is very important to recognize the aims that the qualitative and quantitative 
assessments were intended to address, and also what these assessments could not 
directly or comprehensively address. 
The qualitative assessment aimed to draw insights about the causes of variability in 
published estimates of GHG emissions associated with the use of specific bioenergy 
sources.  The scope of the qualitative assessment was restricted to forest bioenergy 
sources which were the subject of considerable debate at the time of the project.  
Because of the scope specified, and because the assessment was based on a review of 
existing literature, it did not provide a comprehensive and systematic analysis of the 
sensitivity of GHG emissions with respect to different biomass feedstocks and production 
pathways. 
The quantitative assessment aimed to evaluate the impacts on global GHG emissions 
resulting from certain specified future scenarios for bioenergy use in the EU.  The 
scenarios were defined to explore sensitivities to choices amongst major bioenergy 
feedstocks (e.g. types of agricultural biomass and forest biomass) and approaches to 
managing land to include biomass production.  These scenarios represented illustrative 
cases for future bioenergy use in the EU; the project did not attempt to identify or model 
possible optimal scenarios in terms of GHG emissions reductions. 
3. Approach to quantitative assessment 
The quantitative assessment undertaken in the Bioimpact Project set out to identify the 
total impact on global GHG emissions as a result of adopting a number of alternative 
scenarios for bioenergy use, and comparing these with a reference scenario representing 
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
3    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
the current trajectory, with no additional measures introduced after 2020.  The task was 
to assess the total consequence on GHG emissions of adopting each scenario, including 
all direct and indirect emissions, and movements of biogenic carbon between reservoirs 
including the atmosphere. 
3.1. Life cycle assessment (LCA) 
The quantitative assessment involved the application of life cycle assessment (LCA).  
LCA is a powerful tool that can be used for different purposes and in different ways but it 
is vital it is used correctly.  If an LCA study is to be of value there are a number of 
critical components that must be in place, without which the results will be ambiguous, 
open to misinterpretation, or simply not provide the information intended or expected. 
To be of value it is vital that the LCA purpose is stated, and the goal and scope are 
unambiguously defined in the context of this purpose, and this requirement forms part of 
the ISO 14040 Standard3 for LCA.  Insufficient attention to defining the purpose, goal 
and scope can lead to LCA studies giving results that are ambiguous, open to 
misinterpretation, or simply not providing the information intended or expected. 
The project purpose, or aim, set by the EC (see Section 2) was translated into an LCA 
goal, which was formally stated as: to quantify the global emissions of prominent GHGs 
(CO2, CH4 and N2O) from all relevant sources, resulting from implementation of possible 
EU policies, represented by defined scenarios adopted for supplying and consuming 
energy, especially bioenergy, in the EU between 2010 and 2050. 
This goal implicitly specified that the quantitative assessment needed to be based on a 
particular approach to LCA known as consequential LCA (CLCA).  The purpose of CLCA is 
to determine the total collective consequences of a course of action or a policy, 
compared to a counterfactual situation (i.e. in which the action or policy is not pursued), 
without attempting to attribute specific GHG emissions to individual components of the 
system (e.g. specific biomass feedstocks).  It is important to distinguish CLCA from 
another major LCA approach known as attributional LCA (ALCA).  The purpose of ALCA is 
to attribute and quantify impacts (e.g. emissions) to individual products or services.  
ALCA, therefore, is most appropriate when attempting to choose a preferred product or 
service, such as in the context of a regulatory measure; CLCA is most appropriate when 
assessing policy options to inform policy development and was therefore appropriate to 
apply in this project.  However, as will be seen in Section 5.2, the adoption of CLCA, in 
conjunction with the specified research goal, meant that the results of the project were 
suitable for addressing some key questions about bioenergy but not optimal for 
addressing certain other questions. 
                                       
3 “Environmental Management – Life Cycle Assessment – Principles and Framework” ISO 14040, 
International Organisation for Standardisation, Geneva, Switzerland, 1997, revised 2006 
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
4    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
3.2. Models 
The quantitative assessment involved integrating the outputs of a number of different 
models and tools. 
The VTT-TIAM model is a model of the global energy system.  It attempts to calculate an 
equilibrium situation based on minimizing costs, within the constraints of the inputs, 
making use of an extensive database of energy technologies.  As inputs it requires the 
quantities and marginal costs of energy resources, data on energy and emissions 
reduction technologies, including costs, lifetimes, emissions factors etc., energy 
demands, and the policy environments, including energy taxes and emissions targets.  
In addition to these inputs, further constraints may be introduced, such as GHG 
emissions reduction targets, prices for emissions and any limits of certain types of 
technologies. 
For each scenario the VTT-TIAM model produces outputs including energy flows and GHG 
emissions (for each energy source, region, time step, etc.), information about energy 
and emissions reduction technologies employed, atmospheric GHG concentration, 
radiative forcing and temperature increase. 
Alongside VTT-TIAM, the MITTERA-Europe model from Alterra and the CARBINE model 
from Forest Research were used to model changes in vegetation and soil carbon stocks 
and future carbon sequestration associated with the provision of agricultural and forest 
bioenergy feedstocks both from within the EU and beyond. 
Finally, detailed LCA calculation workbooks developed by North Energy Associates were 
used to evaluate the indirect GHG emissions from all relevant bioenergy pathways. 
3.3. Approach to modelling land-based carbon impacts 
When wood is harvested from forests, for use as bioenergy or for other applications, this 
can have impacts on the overall reservoirs of carbon in forests (the “carbon stocks”), 
and also on the capacity of the forests to absorb CO2 and retain more carbon in the 
future (“carbon sequestration”). 
When wood is harvested from forests, for use as bioenergy or for other applications, this 
has impacts on the overall reservoirs of carbon in forests (the “carbon stocks”), and also 
on the capacity of the forests to absorb CO2 and retain more carbon in the future 
(“carbon sequestration”). 
There can be similar impacts on the carbon stocks and potential future carbon 
sequestration of cropland and grassland, particularly in relation to soil carbon, if such 
land is managed to produce bioenergy. 
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
5    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
The Bioimpact project took great care to include the modelling of these impacts as part 
of the quantitative assessment, indeed this was a clear requirement based on the 
research question that was posed. 
Currently, the subject of the impacts of bioenergy production on land-based carbon 
stocks and carbon sequestration is still very contentious and discussions on the subject 
amongst stakeholders can be very intense and occasionally acrimonious. It is important 
to understand the basis of the conflicting positions taken by stakeholders and to clarify 
how relevant issues were handled in the modelling for the Bioimpact project. This is best 
explained by taking some of the arguments often put forward by different stakeholders 
on this subject and then clarifying the position taken in the project with regard to each 
of them. The ensuing discussion of such issues tends to focus on forests, forest 
harvesting and the use of wood for bioenergy, as currently this is a strongly contested 
area and also best illustrates the arguments expressed by stakeholders and the extent to 
which scientific understanding supports them. 
Different stakeholders hold strongly differing views on the impacts of wood harvesting on 
forest carbon stocks and sequestration and the key examples of positions argued for can 
be labelled as follows: 
• The “virtuous circle” argument 
• The “no-use option” argument 
• The “maintaining/strengthening vigour” argument 
• The “growth more than harvest” argument 
• The “no stemwood/roundwood” argument. 
These critical points are considered briefly in turn below. As will be seen, there is some 
truth in each of them, but none tells a complete story. The first four points are closely 
related and a full understanding of relevant issues is best obtained by considering the 
combined discussion of all four points. 
Further discussion of many points underlying this subject can be found in the Task 1 
Report of the Bioimpact project. 
3.3.1. The “virtuous circle” argument 
This argument essentially states that, “when trees are harvested from forests, new trees 
grow (or are planted) in their place, so there is no net impact on forest carbon stocks or 
sequestration”. 
In simple terms, this statement is true, provided that forest management ensures that 
trees regenerate or are replanted to replace trees that are harvested. It is also 
necessary to ensure that the extraction of wood from forests, including in the form of 
forest residues, does not deplete the productive potential of the forests (e.g. through 
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
6    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
depletion of nutrient inputs to soils). Such conditions are generally considered to be 
amongst essential requirements for forest management to be regarded as “sustainable”. 
Whilst the “virtuous circle” argument is true in simple terms, it conceals the fact that 
there can be significant impacts on forest carbon stocks and sequestration when the 
level or intensity of harvesting in forests is changed, as compared with harvesting as 
practised historically. The details depend on timescale and the existing status and 
management of the affected forest areas and how forest management is changed to 
produce more wood from the forests. In some situations, forest carbon stocks and rates 
of sequestration may be increased as a result of active forest management to produce 
more wood. However, there are many situations in which carbon stocks and possibly 
rates of carbon sequestration will be reduced as a result of increased wood production, 
even when the associated forest management is fully consistent with the principles of 
sustainability. (This point is clarified further in Sections 3.3.3 and 3.3.4.)  
In the Bioimpact project, the modelling of forests, croplands and grasslands reflected the 
understanding of the “virtuous circle” argument outlined above as follows: 
• Where the projected supply of forest biomass (for bioenergy or other uses), as 
represented in the project scenarios, did not involve changes in the management of 
forest areas (compared with historical practice), it was assumed there were no 
consequent impacts on GHG emissions as a result of changes in forest carbon stocks 
and sequestration.  
• However, impacts on forest carbon stocks and sequestration needed to be assessed in 
situations where forest management practices were changed to meet projected 
increases (or decreases) in supplies of forest bioenergy. 
• On a separate related point, it was also necessary to consider whether changes 
occurred in patterns of wood utilisation as a result of demand for bioenergy, for 
example diverting it from use for paper or wood-based panels, and whether this would 
lead to impacts on overall GHG emissions. 
• Similarly, and in the same way as for the modelling of forests, where the management 
of cropland or grassland was assumed not to change as a result of the demand for 
agricultural biomass for energy, there were assumed to be no consequent impacts on 
GHG emissions as a result of changes in land-based carbon stocks or sequestration.  
• However, impacts on land-based carbon stocks and sequestration needed to be 
considered in situations where the management of cropland and/or grassland was 
changed to meet projected increases (or decreases) in supplies of agricultural 
biomass. 
• It was also necessary in the modelling to consider whether changes occurred under 
the different bioenergy scenarios in the supply of agricultural biomass for other 
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
7    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
purposes (e.g. for animal feed) and whether this would lead to impacts on overall 
GHG emissions. 
3.3.2. The “no-use option” argument 
An experienced forestry and bioenergy researcher has commented, ‘when someone asks 
the question, “what are the impacts on GHG emissions of using forest bioenergy?” I 
always reply, “compared to what?”…’.  
Essentially, the “no-use option” argument states that, “the scenario against which to 
compare harvesting or extraction of biomass for use as energy should always be the 
scenario of not using the biomass for energy”.  
Some stakeholders interpret “no use” even more narrowly as meaning “no harvesting of 
trees” or “leaving trees in the forest”. 
The case for comparing bioenergy use against the alternative scenario of not using the 
bioenergy is consistent with a key principle of CLCA, i.e. that the impacts of a scenario in 
which a specified policy or commercial decision is taken (in this context, to produce or 
use a defined level of bioenergy), should be compared against a counterfactual scenario 
in which the policy or commercial decision is not taken. The “no-use option” argument 
asserts that the counterfactual scenario when assessing the utilisation of biomass for 
energy should always be not using biomass for energy or more narrowly not producing 
or harvesting biomass.  This is extended by some stakeholders, including some 
researchers, to mean no use of any bioenergy at all (i.e. not even at historically 
produced levels) and also no harvesting of wood for any purposes. 
As already discussed, the principles of CLCA were adopted for the quantitative 
assessment of the Bioimpact project. Hence, the policy scenarios involving increased or 
decreased biomass energy consumption were always compared against a consistent 
counterfactual scenario (the baseline scenario) in which no such changes occurred.   It is 
important to distinguish this approach from comparison against a counterfactual scenario 
of absolutely no use or harvesting. The choice of counterfactual scenario depends on the 
system being studied and, crucially, the LCA research question being addressed. It is 
suggested here that the more generally valid research question to pose (such as adopted 
for this project) should take the generic form: 
“What are the impacts on GHG emissions of producing and consuming a specified source 
of biomass for energy, compared to what would have happened otherwise?” 
In some situations, “what would have happened otherwise” might indeed involve not 
producing or consuming the biomass at all, and might mean not harvesting the biomass 
at all, but this does not hold universally.  For example, in some situations, “producing 
and consuming a specified source of biomass for energy” might be exactly the same as 
“what would have happened otherwise”.  In such situations, the modelling of the 
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
8    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
biomass use would assume no net impacts on GHG emissions (neither increases, nor 
reductions). 
The research question as formulated above informed the approach taken to the 
quantitative assessment of the Bioimpact project and the selection of the counterfactual 
scenario to bioenergy consumption: 
• In situations (occurring within scenarios) where levels and types of biomass consumed 
as energy were consistent with historical practice, this was taken to imply no change 
from the counterfactual scenario, hence there was no requirement to consider impacts 
on GHG emissions arising from changes in land-based carbon stocks or sequestration. 
In effect, the “virtuous circle” argument was taken to apply in these situations. 
However, by the same token, there are no “savings” of GHG emissions (relative to the 
baseline) in such situations as a result of the use of the biomass for energy. 
• In situations (occurring within scenarios) where levels and types of biomass consumed 
for energy involved a change from historical practice (i.e. the baseline), this was 
assessed by comparison with a counterfactual scenario involving no such change. 
Depending on the detailed modelling of cropland, grassland and forests within a 
scenario, in some situations the level of biomass harvesting was higher (and 
sometimes lower) than for the counterfactual scenario.  This could also involve 
changes to the timing with which trees were harvested in the case of forests. In other 
situations it involved changes in the utilisation of the biomass for other purposes, e.g. 
agricultural biomass for animal feed or harvested wood for paper or wood-based 
panels. Assumptions related to this aspect of the modelling were particularly 
important for forest bioenergy sources and this subject is discussed further in Section 
4.2.2. 
It is important to stress the absolute necessity of making assessments relative to a 
counterfactual scenario when undertaking CLCA. For example, by analogy, when 
deciding whether to make a commercial investment using economic analysis, it is 
standard practice to include the opportunity costs of the investment decision as part of 
the balance of costs and revenues, i.e. to take account of the counterfactual scenario of 
not making the investment. The counterfactual scenario in CLCA serves a similar 
purpose and not referring to one would mean that the full impacts of a policy or 
commercial decision would not be properly evaluated. 
“No use” and forest disturbance 
The disturbance of forest areas (e.g. as a result of storms, disease, fire) generally has 
negative consequences for carbon stocks. The risks of significant, large-scale disturbance 
events tend to be mitigated by the systematic control of levels of growing stock in forest 
stands, which is associated with management involving harvesting. It is particularly 
important to consider the possible consequences of disturbance when assessing the 
option of minimising or complete avoidance of forest management (notably harvesting). 
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
9    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
There is limited knowledge of future forest carbon sequestration under scenarios in 
which all harvesting is avoided. 
In the Bioimpact project, the modelling of forests represented disturbance processes, 
where these were relevant to the project scenarios, and allowed for the possibility that 
some areas of disturbed forest might be “salvage-logged” for wood production, with 
some of the harvested biomass being utilized for energy. 
3.3.3. The “maintaining/strengthening vigour” argument 
This argument applies more specifically in the context of forestry and is ultimately based 
on the observation that, as populations of trees grow older, their rates of growth and 
carbon sequestration decline significantly when compared with younger trees (i.e. stands 
of trees less than approximately 50 to 70 years old in the context of temperate and 
boreal forests). In essence, the argument states that, “the sustainable management of 
forests for wood production is essential for maintaining and strengthening carbon 
sequestration by forests”. In this context, “sustainable forest management” is equated 
with sustainable tree harvesting for wood production. 
There is some truth in this argument. If stands of relatively old or mature trees are 
felled and replaced by actively regenerated or replanted younger stands of trees, then 
within 10 to 20 years these younger stands will grow at faster rates than the older 
stands they replace, so they will sequester carbon at faster rates. For example, in a 
paper4 arguing the case for wood production from sustainably managed forests, a graph 
is presented that shows how the mean rate of biomass growth in forests representative 
of Northern Europe varies with the rotation age (i.e. age of clearfelling) applied to the 
stands forming the forest.  The graph in the paper appears to draw attention to the 
possibility of shortening the rotations of relevant spruce stands in Sweden from 100 
years to 70 years, indicating a consequent increase in the rate of carbon sequestration.  
Relevant results, derived from Figures 1 and 2 in the paper, are shown in Table 3.1.  For 
rotation ages of 70 and 100 years, the mean rates of carbon sequestration in forest 
biomass over the rotation are 2.1 and 1.7 tonnes carbon per hectare per year, 
respectively. 
By implication, shortening the rotation ages in such forests to 70 years where they are 
currently managed on rotations of 100 years should increase the rate of carbon 
sequestration. 
At the same time, managing rotations in the way described above can increase the level 
of overall wood production from forests (see Table 3.1). The harvested wood can be 
used to provide a range of useful products. Some of these, like bioenergy, will be 
consumed and release the sequestered carbon immediately but others (such as 
                                       
4 Hektor, B., Backéus, S. and Andersson, K. (2016) Biomass and Bioenergy 93 1-5. 
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
10    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
structural timber) may be very long-lived and will continue to retain the carbon 
sequestered in the original trees. 
Table 3.1 Dependence of forest carbon sequestration, stemwood production 
and mean carbon stocks on rotations in spruce stands in Sweden1 
Stand age or 
rotation 
(years) 
Carbon 
sequestration 
rate in year2 
(tC ha-1 yr-1) 
Mean carbon 
sequestration 
rate over 
rotation2     
(tC ha-1 yr-1) 
Stemwood 
production 
over rotation 
(m3 ha-1 yr-1) 
Mean carbon 
stock over 
rotation      
(tC ha-1) 
100 
0.8 
1.7 
5.1 
87 
70 
1.2 
2.1 
5.4 
74 
Gain/loss3 (+/-) 
+0.4 
+0.4 
+0.3 
-13.6 
% gain/loss 
+44% 
+21% 
+6% 
-16% 
Notes to Table 3.1: 
1 All results derived from Figures 1 and 2 in Hektor et al., (2016), see footnote 4.  Original results were 
based on all above ground forest biomass but these have been converted to units of carbon and adjusted 
to allow for contributions from roots. 
2 These results represent rates of carbon sequestration in forest biomass before subtracting losses of forest 
biomass as a result of harvesting. 
3 Gain or loss as a result of adjusting rotation from 100 years to 70 years 
 
What the “maintaining/strengthening vigour” argument ignores is that carbon stocks in 
older/more mature forests are, by nature much larger than carbon stocks in young 
forests. Increasing the rate of harvesting in older forests and replacing them with 
younger forests inevitably leads to a reduction in the average age of the trees in the 
forests, hence to a reduction in the average carbon stocks of the forests (potentially in 
soil and litter as well as in living trees). This is true even if the management of forests is 
to the highest standards of sustainability.  The impact on carbon stocks in forest biomass 
of shortening rotations from 100 years to 70 years in the example spruce stands in 
Sweden is shown in Table 3.1. 
It is also important to recognize that, whilst the management of forests involving 
shortening of rotations can significantly increase the rate of carbon sequestration over 
the medium term, the harvesting of sequestered carbon is also increased, so that the 
net impact on forest carbon stocks and sequestration is not so beneficial when the 
balance between increased sequestration and increased harvesting is allowed for. 
It should be recognized that there are also some cases in which increasing wood 
production from forests can lead to the maintenance of, or an increase in, forest carbon 
stocks (see for example Section 4.2.2).  Whilst these cases are quite specific, there are 
real-life examples where such outcomes have been achieved. 
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
11    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
When forest management is changed, for example by adjusting the rotations of forest 
stands as illustrated, this can have impacts not only on carbon stocks and rates of 
carbon sequestration and wood production in the forest, but also on: 
• The amount of carbon sequestered in harvested wood products (i.e. the carbon 
physical contained in products such as sawn timber, wood-based panels and paper) 
• The GHG emissions associated with the counterfactuals to wood products, for example 
plastic, steel, brick or concrete products that may be displaced by using wood 
products instead, or that may be consumed if wood is not produced. 
Hence, it is necessary also to consider these contributions to overall changes in GHG 
emissions that may occur when changing forest management. 
Carbon sequestered in harvested wood products 
An initial question thus arises: If older stands of trees are replaced with younger stands 
of trees through harvesting and regeneration/replanting, what is the overall impact on 
carbon stocks, allowing for the carbon in forests and also for carbon physically contained 
in harvested wood products, including those that are long-lived? 
In fact this question was answered nearly 30 years ago in some of the initial research on 
the role of forests and their management in the carbon balance5. A significant body of 
relevant research shows that, even after allowing for the carbon retained in harvested 
wood products, in many situations the overall effect of “intensifying” forest management 
to increase wood production is a net reduction in carbon stocks. 
Interactions between wood and counterfactual products 
In the context of the Bioimpact project, the full assessment of any scenario for increased 
forest biomass supply and consumption needed to allow for the effects of intensified 
forest management on: 
• Forest carbon stocks and sequestration 
• Carbon physically sequestered in wood products 
• The potential savings of GHG emissions through the increased utilisation of wood as a 
source of bioenergy and materials, in place of fossil fuels and alternative 
(counterfactual) materials such as metals, plastics, bricks and concrete. 
                                       
5 See for example: Thompson, D.A. and Matthews, R.W. (1989) The storage of carbon in trees 
and timber, Forestry Commission Research Information Note 160, Forestry Commission, 
Edinburgh; Harmon, M.E., Ferrell, W.K. and Franklin, J.F. (1990) Effects on carbon storage of 
conversion of old-growth forests to young forests, Science, 247, 699-702; Matthews, R.W. 
(1991) Biomass production and carbon storage by British forests, In: Aldhous, J.R. (ed.) Wood for 
energy: the implications for harvesting, utilisation and marketing, Proceedings of ICF discussion 
meeting, 5-7 April 1991, Heriot-Watt University, Edinburgh, ICF, Edinburgh, 162-177. 
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
12    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
Research on this subject indicates that the outcomes of increased harvesting and 
utilisation of wood are very sensitive to the mix of specific applications for which the 
wood is consumed (e.g. energy, paper, wood-based panels and structural timber) and 
the counterfactual energy sources and materials displaced (see Section 3.3.5). 
Overall approach of Bioimpact project 
In the Bioimpact project, the assessment of GHG emissions impacts in relation to 
changes in forest management to supply more (or less) biomass for energy allowed for 
all of the effects outlined above, i.e. in summary: 
• Increased rate of forest carbon sequestration in cases where forest management was 
changed to increase wood production (but also recognising that much if not all of this 
additional sequestered carbon would be harvested) 
• Where relevant, reduced carbon stocks in forests, for example where forest rotations 
were adjusted to enhance forest growth and wood production 
• Where relevant, increased carbon stocks and sequestration in wood products co-
produced with increased biomass supplied for use as energy 
• Impacts of increased supply of biomass from forests for energy, and associated co-
products, through the displacement of counterfactual energy sources and material 
products. 
Possible forest management approaches that might lead to maintained or enhanced 
carbon stocks in association with increased bioenergy production from forests were not 
represented in the main Bioimpact project scenarios, but were considered to an extent in 
a set of alternative scenarios, as part of a sensitivity analysis. Further details of 
assumptions about forest management made in the Bioimpact project are given in 
Sections 4.2.2 and 4.2.3. 
3.3.4. The “growth more than harvest” argument 
This argument states that, ‘the production of biomass from crops or forests for utilisation 
as energy is “carbon-neutral” (i.e. no net GHG emissions as a result of burning the 
biomass) or better, provided that the rate of growth of the crops or forests is greater 
than or equal to the level of harvesting’. 
Alternatively, the argument can be stated ‘the production of biomass from crops or 
forest for utilisation as energy is “carbon-neutral” or better, provided that the rate of 
carbon sequestration of the crops or forest is greater than or equal to the amount of 
carbon removed by harvesting’. 
The rationale for this argument is derived from a basic measure of sustainable forest 
management and is best illustrated by an example, as follows. 
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
13    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
Consider a large area of forest, formed of a population of many stands of trees of 
different ages. Suppose that surveys of the forest have shown that in the recent past 
(say, the previous 10 years), the forest area has grown on average by 4.8 cubic metres 
of stemwood per hectare per year. (Note that this measure of the growth of trees does 
not allow for any losses of stemwood as a result of harvesting, which are calculated as a 
separate measure.)  
Suppose also that trees were harvested from the forest during the previous 10 years 
(through thinning or clearfelling) at an average rate of 3.6 cubic metres of stemwood per 
hectare per year. 
The “growth more than harvest” argument asserts that any wood being harvested from 
the forest area is “carbon-neutral” or better, provided that the first measure described 
above (4.8 in this case) is greater than or equal to the second measure (3.6 in this 
case). 
The two measures are sometimes expressed as a ratio, in this case 4.8/3.6 = 1.33. The 
ratio is known as the “growth-drain” ratio and may be used as an indicator of sustainable 
management, the aim generally being to keep the ratio at 1.0 or above. 
Note that similar measures could be calculated for the forest based on tree biomass or 
carbon, expressed in tonnes of wood (about 1.9 and 1.4) or carbon (about 0.96 and 
0.72) per hectare per year. 
The balance between the rate of growth and level of harvesting in individual stands 
forming a forest area may vary considerably from this average result: harvesting greatly 
exceeding growth in older stands that are clearfelled during the 10 year period referred 
to in the above example, whilst growth may greatly exceed harvesting in younger 
stands. However, it is argued that what matters is the overall balance between growth 
and harvesting across all the stands forming the complete forest area. 
It is undeniable that achieving a good balance between growth (or carbon sequestration 
rate) and the harvesting (or carbon losses) of agricultural and forest land is a 
fundamental indicator of, and minimum requirement for, sustainable management. 
However, it is a serious mistake to assume that this guarantees the “carbon-neutrality” 
of any biomass produced from crops or forest. When dealing with climate change, what 
matters is the impact of actions on net emissions to, or sequestration from the 
atmosphere. This point is best illustrated by continuing the example described above. 
In the example, the trees forming the forest area absorbed about 0.96 tonnes carbon 
per hectare per year on average over the previous 10 years. The average level of 
harvesting was 0.72 tonnes carbon per hectare per year. In this case, it could be argued 
that the impact of harvesting the wood may be regarded as at least “carbon-neutral”, 
noting that there was net carbon sequestration of 0.96 – 0.72 = 0.24 tonnes carbon per 
hectare per year over the previous ten years. 
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
14    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
This could also be argued for future wood production in certain circumstances. For 
example, suppose that in the forthcoming 10 year period, the forest is expected to 
continue to absorb 0.96 tonnes carbon per hectare per year and the level of harvesting 
is also expected to remain at about the same level as in the previous 10 year period 
(0.72 tonnes carbon per hectare per year). In this situation, again it could be argued 
that the wood that is planned to be harvested from the forest could be regarded as at 
least “carbon-neutral”. 
Now suppose that plans have been made to increase the level of wood harvesting to 
0.93 tonnes carbon per hectare per year (e.g. as part of efforts to “develop a 
bioeconomy”). If the rate at which the forest absorbs carbon does not change, then the 
net carbon sequestration from the atmosphere will be 0.96 – 0.93 = 0.03 tonnes carbon 
per hectare per year, whereas otherwise the net sequestration would have been 0.96 – 
0.72 = 0.24 tonnes carbon per hectare if the decision to increase harvesting had not 
been taken. In other words, because wood harvesting from the forest is to be intensified 
compared to historical levels, there will be negative impact on the net carbon 
sequestration contributed by the forest. Note also that if all the extra wood harvested is 
used for energy, the carbon in this harvested wood will be released to the atmosphere 
very quickly. These conclusions are consistent with the observations already made 
regarding the “virtuous circle” argument (see Section 3.3.1). 
Some stakeholders may challenge the above discussion by pointing out that generally it 
will be wrong to assume that the rate of carbon absorption by the forest (0.96 tonnes 
carbon per hectare per year in this example) will be unchanged and that, in fact, carbon 
absorption should be increased by intensified forest management. This is the 
“maintaining/strengthening vigour” argument (see Section 3.3.3). However, as already 
explained in Section 3.3.3, this argument ignores the negative impacts on forest carbon 
stocks which are likely to be involved in intensifying the management of forests to 
enhance growth and carbon absorption. Furthermore, claiming higher carbon 
sequestration rates associated with intensified forest management overlooks the 
fundamental motivation for intensifying management, which is to utilize more of the 
potential of forests to produce wood, i.e. to narrow the gap between levels of harvesting 
and the potential for wood production implied by rates of growth (and carbon 
absorption) of forests. Continuing the previous example, intensified forest management 
might increase the rate of carbon absorption of forests from 0.96 to 1.73 tonnes carbon 
per hectare per year, whilst the associated level of harvesting could be very close to this, 
say 1.70 tonnes carbon per hectare per year, giving net carbon sequestration of 0.03 
tonnes carbon per hectare per year. Hence intensified management is likely to reduce 
net carbon sequestration (compared to what would have occurred in the absence of 
intensification) even if carbon absorption is enhanced by management. 
It is clear from the preceding account (see also Sections 3.3.1 and 3.3.3) that decisions 
to change forest management, or consume more (or less) harvested wood have impacts 
on the balance between rates of forest carbon sequestration (or “carbon sinks”) and 
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
15    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
rates of carbon loss (or “carbon sources”). The same point applies for other types of 
managed land such as cropland and grassland. This point is particularly pertinent to 
commitments made by countries under the Paris Agreement (see Article 4.1) which 
entered into force in 2016,  
“to achieve a balance between anthropogenic emissions … and … sinks of greenhouse 
gases in the second half of this century …”  
Putting aside the possibility of developing industrial-scale carbon capture and storage 
technologies, the only major global carbon sink over which humans can exercise some 
direct control is that due to land-based vegetation and soil. Hence, a key goal of the 
Paris Agreement could be missed if the intensification of biomass harvesting goes too 
far, without putting in place suitable safeguards to sustain land-based carbon stocks and 
potential future carbon sequestration. 
It remains the case that a key criterion for sustainable land management involves 
ensuring that harvesting does not exceed growth, when assessed over an appropriate 
time period.  However, fundamentally, a simplistic comparison of rates of growth and 
levels of harvesting is not a robust way to ensure low impacts of bioenergy sources on 
GHG emissions.  
In the Bioimpact project, the assessment of GHG emissions impacts allowed for the 
factors outlined above by adopting a methodology as already described in Sections 3.3.1 
to 3.3.3. 
3.3.5. The “no stemwood/roundwood” argument 
This argument states that, “harvesting and utilising tree stemwood or roundwood for 
energy is bad for climate change because of the lost forest carbon sequestration 
involved”. 
Sometimes the same argument is also expressed referring to “whole trees” or “complete 
trees”. 
Any discussion of this argument depends on good definitions for terms such as 
“stemwood”, “roundwood”, “whole trees” and “complete trees”. Definitions for 
“stemwood” and “roundwood” and a number of other terms referred to in the following 
discussion, such as “sawlogs”, are provided later in this report (see Section 4.2.2, in 
particular Box 1). In this discussion, the terms “whole trees” and “complete trees” refer 
to the majority of tree biomass above ground, i.e. in the main stem, bark, and branches, 
either with or without foliage attached, but generally not including tree stumps and roots 
(see Box 1 for definitions of these latter terms). 
For the purposes of the discussion below, the term “stemwood” is used to refer 
interchangeably to stemwood and roundwood.  
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
16    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
One of the origins of this argument was a position paper6 which presented an 
interpretation of some LCA research results for wood production from UK forests, from 
an earlier report written by members of the Bioimpact project team7. The position paper 
focused on one result, for a scenario in which all wood (including all stemwood) 
harvested from forests at all times during the life cycle of forest stands was utilized for 
energy only (i.e. no wood was utilized to produce materials). It was very apparent from 
the original report that this particular scenario involved the highest GHG emissions 
compared with all other scenarios, including a scenario of not harvesting any wood from 
the forests. This was true even if the harvested wood was consumed as energy instead 
of burning coal. 
The position paper omitted to discuss the fact that the original research report presented 
results for nearly 120 scenarios for wood production from UK forests, of which between 
one third and more than one half (depending on the timescale considered) involved net 
GHG emissions savings, or were “at least as good”, compared to not harvesting wood 
from forests. Furthermore, nearly all of these “low-emissions” scenarios involved the 
consumption of some stemwood for energy (either directly from raw stemwood or 
indirectly as a by-product of the manufacture of sawnwood products), with 
approximately one quarter of these scenarios involving some direct use of stemwood for 
energy. 
It follows that the consumption of stemwood for energy is neither universally good nor 
universally bad in terms of impacts on GHG emissions. The results can be variable, 
depending on the details, and this issue requires careful consideration. 
A thorough interpretation of the full results of the original research has suggested that, 
generally, over climate policy relevant timescales (30 years, and in most cases 
significantly less): 
• Using all of the stemwood from forests (i.e. from all of early thinnings, later thinnings 
and from clearfelling) directly for energy leads to net increases in GHG emissions, 
even compared to burning coal. 
• Using all of the sawlog part of stemwood directly for energy leads to net increases in 
GHG emissions. However, using the industrial residues (generated by producing sawn 
timber from sawlogs) as an energy source can lead to net decreases in GHG emissions 
compared to fossil fuels, provided that this does not involve significant negative 
                                       
6 Searchinger, T. (2012) Sound principles and an important inconsistency in the 2012 UK 
Bioenergy Strategy. Position paper. At: 
http://ww2.rspb.org.uk/Images/Searchinger_comments_on 
_bioenergy_strategy_SEPT_2012_tcm9-329780.pdf 
7 Matthews, R., Mortimer, N., Mackie, E., Hatto, C., Evans, A., Mwabonje, O., Randle, T., Rolls, 
W., Sayce, M. and Tubby, I. (2014) Carbon Impacts of Using Biomass in Bioenergy and Other 
Sectors: Forests. Final Report for Department of Energy and Climate Change. Revised 2014. 
Forest Research: Farnham. 
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
17    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
impacts on the availability of industrial residues as a feedstock for manufacturing 
certain material products, e.g. wood-based panels. 
• Using the small roundwood part of stemwood directly for energy can lead to net GHG 
emissions savings compared to fossil fuels, particularly if this occurs in conjunction 
with co-producing sawn timber from sawlogs and other materials from industrial 
residues, such as wood-based panels, alongside consumption of some industrial 
residues for energy. 
• Using forest residues as an energy source can lead to net GHG emissions savings 
compared to fossil fuels, provided that the extraction of residues from forest sites is 
constrained to minimize negative impacts on the carbon balance, nutrient status and 
acidity of forest soils, as well as ensuring protection of habitats. 
The full results also indicated that the GHG impacts of utilising forest biomass for energy 
were also sensitive to certain other factors, in particular the types of forest involved in 
wood production, as characterized by tree species, potential growth rates, existing 
carbon stock levels and approaches taken to forest management (e.g. the rotation 
between clearfelling, regeneration or replanting events). 
Despite the large number of scenarios considered in the original research, there were 
some important cases that were not covered. One case that was excluded involved the 
extraction of tree stumps and roots for use as a bioenergy feedstock. This case was 
regarded as involving such evident negative impacts on soil carbon processes and other 
soil properties that modelling was not needed to establish the impacts on GHG 
emissions. 
There was an entire class of scenarios that was not considered in the original research, 
involving patterns in the way wood is utilized from the various harvesting events over 
the life cycle of trees forming a forest. An important example of such a case consists of: 
• The stemwood of small/early thinnings utilized for energy 
• The stemwood (possibly including small roundwood) of later thinnings utilized to 
produce sawn timber, wood-based panels and other material products, with some 
industrial residues utilized for energy 
• The stemwood harvested from clearfelling utilized in the same way as later thinnings. 
The above type of scenario could be relevant in situations where there are limited 
market incentives for undertaking early thinning operations. It can be important to 
encourage thinning in young stands of trees to improve the quality of the remaining 
growing stock, thereby ensuring the stands of trees produce high quality timber later in 
the rotation, suitable for manufacturing long-lived products. 
The harvesting of trees as thinnings reduces the carbon stocks in forest stands, certainly 
in the short term.  Often the remaining trees will respond to the growing space released 
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
18    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
by the thinning, and their rate of growth (and rate of carbon absorption) will be 
increased. This can provide some compensation for the impacts of the thinning on 
carbon stocks, also in the relatively short term. 
There are some situations in which utilising harvested wood for energy, as part of more 
general measures to develop a bioeconomy, can lead to net GHG emissions savings, 
regardless of which parts of the tree (above ground) are used for this purpose. Generally 
these are situations where the forest management associated with wood production 
leads to improvements in rates of carbon sequestration and neutral or positive impacts 
on carbon stocks. The main relevant examples are: 
• Afforestation of marginal land through tree planting or regeneration, with the 
objective of increasing wood production 
• Enhancing the growth rates of existing forest areas through tree species selection or 
tree breeding and, in some situations fertilisation of forest soils. 
There are real-life examples of such practices taking place but it must be acknowledged 
that these are specific cases. 
All of the factors described above were represented in the modelling for the Bioimpact 
project and further information is given in Section 4.2.2 of this report. 
As explained above, ignoring certain specific cases, if all of the stemwood harvested 
from a forest were to be utilized exclusively to produce energy, this is very likely to lead 
to significant increases in GHG emissions compared to burning fossil fuels including coal. 
A key question is: Would/does such a scenario ever actually occur in practice? At 
present, this subject is strongly contended, with some stakeholders insisting that such 
practices would never occur or would be exceptional, whilst others are claiming that this 
is already happening. There is a critical need for an impartial assessment of the existing 
extent or likelihood (and if relevant the potential scale) of such activities. This was well 
beyond the scope of the Bioimpact project. 
3.4. Approach to representing ILUC 
The possibility of ILUC has been presented by some scientists and commentators as a 
crucial influence on the overall GHG impacts of certain land use and land management 
options aimed at mitigation of GHG emissions. The focus tends to be on the agriculture 
sector and in particular the potential impacts of converting land used for production of 
food over to production of biomass crops for energy use. Questions regarding ILUC can 
also occasionally arise when considering forestry.  
Studies which have attempted to quantify the potential impacts arising from ILUC on 
activities aimed at reducing GHG emissions, generally through management of 
agricultural land, have shown that results are highly sensitive to the detailed 
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
19    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
assumptions made in carrying out analyses, with estimated emissions arising from ILUC 
ranging from zero to very large. 
The issue of ILUC is most likely to arise in scenarios involving land use change as an 
essential theme, e.g. where demands for bioenergy are met through planting of biofuel 
or energy crops (or for that matter afforestation activities) that result in land use change 
elsewhere, e.g. increased deforestation or reduced re-forestation. The approach taken in 
the Bioimpact project to dealing with ILUC for such scenarios was to constrain the 
relevant activities with the intention of avoiding significant risks of ILUC. This was done 
by: 
• Not allowing for the importation of solid agricultural biomass to the EU for use as 
energy 
• Not allowing for afforestation activities outside the EU in the main project scenarios 
(see Section 4.2.2) 
• In the EU region, limiting the planting of biofuel or energy crops and afforestation 
activities in all scenarios to an area estimated to be consistent with avoiding negative 
impacts on future food supply, as informed by the assessments in several studies8. 
4. Scenarios 
Six scenarios, labelled A, B, C1, C2, C3 and D, were developed for the purposes of this 
project as described in the ensuing discussion.  Each scenario was designed to represent 
a specific, realistic, self-consistent approach to energy decarbonisation, with differences 
chosen to allow the relative impact of certain components of biomass use for energy to 
be compared.  These were not intended to be predictions but to represent possible 
pathways, consistent with existing modelling that could provide insights into the overall 
impacts of a few specific classes of biomass. The six different scenarios developed for 
this project consisted of a reference scenario representing existing policies (Scenario A) 
and five decarbonisation scenarios that each delivered emissions reductions by 2050 of 
80%] but that took different approaches to bioenergy use (Scenarios B to D). 
                                       
8 Elbersen, B.S., Staritsky, I., Hengeveld, G., Schelhaas, M.J., Naeff, H. and Böttcher, H. (2012) 
Atlas of EU biomass potentials. Deliverable 3.3: Spatially detailed and quantified overview of EU 
biomass potential taking into account the main criteria determining biomass availability from 
different sources. Report for Task 3 in Biomass Futures project. At: 
http://www.biomassfutures.eu/work_packages/WP3 
Supply/D_3_3__Atlas_of_technical_and_economic_biomass_potential_FINAL_Feb_2012.pdf; 
Elbersen, B., Fritsche, U. Petersen, J.-E., Lesschen, J.P., Böttcher, H. and Overmars, K. (2013) 
Assessing the effect of stricter sustainability criteria on EU biomass potential. Biofuels, 
Bioproducts and Biorefining, 7, 173–192; European Commission (2013) Prospects for Agricultural 
Markets and Income in the EU 2013-2023. Directorate-General for Agriculture and Rural 
Development: Brussels; Britz, W. and Witzke, P. (2012) CAPRI Model Documentation 2012. Bonn 
University: Bonn.  At: http://www.capri-model.org/docs/capri_documentation.pdf 
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
20    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
The LCA goal of this project specified that GHG emissions needed to be quantified for 
“defined scenarios [emphasis added] adopted for supplying and consuming energy, 
especially bioenergy, in the EU between 2010 and 2050” (see Section 3.1).  For this 
reason the success of the project depended upon the comprehensive and thorough 
specification of the scenarios to be assessed. 
Each scenario was defined in terms of: 
• Overall bioenergy consumption 
• Approaches to the management of forests and agricultural land to supply the 
biomass 
• Interactions between the use of biomass for energy and its use for other purposes 
(e.g. for animal feed, soil remediation or to manufacture paper, wood based panels or 
sawn wood). 
When interpreting the results of this project it is critically important to understand what 
assumptions were made in developing the scenarios, firstly about the overall levels of 
biomass consumption, and secondly about the approaches to forest and agricultural land 
management and interactions amongst different uses of biomass.  These two aspects of 
scenario definition are discussed in Sections 4.1 and 4.2 below. 
4.1. Definition of scenarios: overall bioenergy 
consumption 
The setting of overall biomass use in each scenario involved defining, for each year until 
2050: 
• The total quantity of biomass consumed in the EU for energy 
• The relative emphasis on biomass supply from either crops or forests 
• The relative emphasis on biomass supply from different geographical origins to the 
EU. 
In terms of overall targets set for the six different scenarios developed for this project: 
• Scenario A (‘Reference’) represented the continuation of existing EU energy 
policy and measures up to 2020, but with no additional measures to be adopted 
thereafter.  Hence existing 2020 targets for GHG emissions and renewable energy 
consumption were assumed to be met, after which annual biomass consumption 
increased only very slightly up to 2050.  Certain other efforts towards GHG emissions 
reductions were assumed to continue to deepen after 2020, through the continued 
tightening of targets set as part of the EU Emissions Trading System (ETS), which is 
why this scenario involves modest ongoing reductions in GHG emissions over time 
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
21    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
after 2020.  This was chosen as a baseline with which other scenarios could be 
compared, representing business as usual. 
• Scenarios B, C1-3 and D were all ‘decarbonisation’ scenarios, in which the model 
was required, amongst other things, to meet a 2050 emissions reduction target of 
80%, which is the lower end of the range mentioned in the 2050 Roadmap that the 
Commission published in 2011. They differed from one another with regard to the 
assumptions or constraints on bioenergy, as described below.    
• Scenario B (‘Carry on, unconstrained use’) represented increased bioenergy 
consumption after 2020 compared to Reference Scenario A, with the highest use of 
biomass for energy from all sources and with limited constraints on the types of 
sources consumed.  Essentially, the consumption of biomass sources for energy was 
determined principally by the relative estimated costs of different biomass feedstocks, 
otherwise placing no emphasis on consumption of specific feedstocks (e.g. agricultural 
or forest biomass). The main additional constraints involved limiting the consumption 
of solid agricultural biomass to sources originating within the EU, not allowing the 
supply of woody biomass for energy through activities leading to deforestation, 
avoiding the use of tree stumps and roots, avoiding the use of woody biomass suitable 
for use in long-lived structural products, and assuming that the consumption of 
biomass for energy provided no stimulus for enhanced afforestation activities in the 
EU or elsewhere (in the main project scenarios, see Section 4.2.2). 
• Scenario C1 (‘Carry on, imported wood’) represented increased bioenergy 
consumption after 2020 compared to Reference Scenario A whilst emphasizing the 
consumption of imported forest bioenergy, allowing for some constraints. Examples 
of constraints applied in the scenario in addition to those applied in Scenario B 
included limiting the planting of biofuel or energy crops in the EU with the intention of 
avoiding significant risks of indirect land-use change (see Section 3.4). 
• Scenario C2 (‘Carry on, domestic crops’) represented increased bioenergy 
consumption after 2020 compared to Reference Scenario A whilst emphasizing the 
consumption of bioenergy from biofuel or energy crops and agricultural biomass 
grown in the EU region, with some constraints as discussed for Scenario C1. 
• Scenario C3 (‘Carry on, domestic wood’) represented increased bioenergy 
consumption after 2020 compared to Reference Scenario A whilst emphasizing the 
consumption of forest bioenergy, supplied from forests in the EU region, with some 
constraints as discussed for Scenario C1. 
• Scenario D (‘Back off’) represented a situation in which the consumption of 
bioenergy as a renewable energy source would be de-prioritized after 2020. 
Hence the overall biomass consumption in the EU associated with meeting GHG 
emissions and renewable energy targets for 2020 was assumed to be met, after which 
annual biomass consumption was constrained and required to decrease compared to 
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
22    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
Reference Scenario A.   Consequently, the scenario also involved greater use of other 
low-carbon solutions after 2020 than in the Reference scenario, including energy 
efficiency and various non-biomass low-carbon energy sources. 
The setting of overall levels for bioenergy consumption for the six scenarios, as well as 
constraints or emphasis placed on consumption of specific bioenergy sources in each 
scenario, was the subject of extensive consultation with the European Commission and  
the characteristics of (and differences between) the scenarios were stated 
unambiguously. 
4.2. Definition of scenarios: approaches to land 
management and biomass utilization 
Whilst it was very important to set clear and agreed overall levels of bioenergy 
consumption in defining the six scenarios, it was equally important to define what 
approaches to land management and biomass utilization would be involved in achieving 
the overall GHG emissions and renewable energy targets.  It will be appreciated that 
agricultural land management and forest management at the scale of whole countries or 
regions is highly complex.  For example, the management of forests for wood production 
will not be uniform across forest areas within a country but will reflect many factors such 
as accessibility, forest type (e.g. tree species), growth rate etc.  It was therefore 
necessary for this heterogeneity to be represented in the modelling undertaken for this 
project.  It is difficult to provide a simple and accessible summary description of all of 
the assumptions involved in this aspect of defining the scenarios, however an attempt is 
made below to provide such a description, because this is absolutely essential to the 
subsequent interpretation of the results. 
For the purposes of this project, the term “approach” was used to refer to a set of 
assumptions about the ways in which agricultural land and forests would be managed, 
and/or particular biomass feedstocks might be utilized (for energy and/or for other 
purposes), as part of meeting the overall levels of biomass consumption (from all 
sources) specified in the scenarios. 
In theory there is an almost infinite number of approaches that might be taken in 
different countries to supply the biomass needed to meet the levels of bioenergy 
consumption set for the six scenarios specified in this project.  It is unclear how to 
identify confidently those approaches that are “most likely” to be involved in supplying 
biomass for energy use in the EU in the future, as opposed to those approaches that are 
“unlikely”.  Indeed, this subject continues to be vigorously debated by stakeholders.  
However, it is known with reasonable certainty that the choice of approaches to biomass 
supply for energy use can lead to widely varying impacts on GHG emissions, ranging 
from significant net GHG savings to significant increases in GHG emissions.   
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
23    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
Two contrasting approaches were defined for the purposes of the Bioimpact project, with 
the aim of giving an indication of the possible range of outcomes in terms of GHG 
emissions impacts.  These two approaches were called the “Precautionary” approach, 
representing basic sustainability safeguards, and the “Synergistic” approach, 
representing a more intensive approach to ensuring sustainability and the mitigation of 
negative impacts. The scenarios and ultimate results based on the Precautionary 
approach were regarded as the main scenarios and results of the Bioimpact project, 
literally taking a precautionary position of not allowing for the possibilities for more 
intensive efforts towards sustainability (and the use of mitigating measures) as part of 
the consumption of biomass for energy in the EU. 
4.2.1. Agricultural land management 
In all scenarios, it was assumed that supplies of bioenergy from agricultural sources 
would be produced from within the EU region.  The management of agricultural land was 
represented in the same way in both the Precautionary and Synergistic approaches, 
since the two approaches were intended to investigate sensitivities to ways of supplying 
forest bioenergy sources.  
Potentials and costs were estimated for a range of agricultural sources of bioenergy, 
including a number of dedicated biofuel or energy crops, residues from agricultural 
production and manure. The use of these various bioenergy sources in each scenario 
was determined, via the VTT-TIAM model, by finding the combination of supplies of 
agricultural bioenergy sources that met the requirements for energy supply defined in 
each scenario at least cost (see earlier discussion). 
It should be noted that, in all scenarios, the planting of biofuel/energy crops on 
agricultural land was constrained with the intention of avoiding indirect land-use change 
(ILUC), as already discussed in Section 3.4. 
4.2.2. Forest management and wood utilization 
The definitions of the Precautionary and Synergistic approaches focussed on forest 
biomass sources, as a result of the considerable interest amongst stakeholders regarding 
the role (positive or negative) of forest biomass. In essence: 
• The Precautionary approach avoided some of the most extreme options for forest 
biomass supply (e.g. leading to deforestation, through failure to ensure replanting or 
regeneration of forest areas following harvesting or through subsequent conversion of 
felled forest areas to agricultural land or some other land use).  Otherwise the supply 
was broadly related to the magnitudes of different potentials of forest biomass 
resources available within each country, with limited consideration of whether these 
different resources may lead to beneficial or deleterious outcomes in terms of impacts 
on GHG emissions. 
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
24    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
• The Synergistic approach involved some very similar assumptions to the 
Precautionary approach but with a further constraint on options for forest biomass 
supply (specifically avoiding harvesting in forest areas with very low growth rates).  In 
addition, it was assumed that the increased utilization of forest biomass for energy 
was accompanied by activities relating to forest management and biomass utilization 
that could lead to beneficial outcomes in terms of impacts on GHG emissions.  
Examples of such activities include afforestation (constrained with the intention of 
avoiding ILUC, see Section 3.4), improvement of the growing stock of degraded forest 
areas and greater emphasis on the supply of forest biomass for use as energy as a co-
product of the supply of material wood products, as part of general efforts to build a 
bioeconomy (see Section 5.5).  No assumption was made as to whether these 
activities take place because of economic incentives arising from additional demand 
for biomass, or as a result of regulatory measures.  Rather, the Synergistic approach 
was intended to give an indication of the potential of such activities to influence the 
contribution to GHG savings that might be made by the forestry sector and forest 
bioenergy consumers. 
All scenarios, including Reference Scenario A, were modelled for both the Precautionary 
and Synergistic approaches in all geographical regions represented in the project as 
supplying the EU region with bioenergy. As already explained, the scenarios and results 
based on the Precautionary approach were taken as the main scenarios and results of 
the Bioimpact project. 
Regional differences between forest biomass sources 
Separately from the Precautionary and Synergistic approaches, the modelling also took 
into account differences between supplying regions as regards forest management and 
wood utilisation practices. Table 4.1 gives a qualitative summary of the differences in 
emphasis in forest management practices and wood utilization assumed for the four 
regions supplying biomass to the EU, as modelled in this project (EU domestic wood 
production, Canada, the USA and Brazil).  The table refers to abbreviated names for 
different aspects of forest management and wood utilization practices, which are defined 
in Box 1. These definitions are also referred to in Table 6.1 later in this report. The 
emphasis on different practices varies slightly between scenarios; the descriptions in 
Table 4.1 are based on the scenario which is most pertinent for each region, as indicated 
in the table. 
More details of specific assumptions about forest management and wood utilization 
practices made for each supplying region are given Section 4.8.3 and 4.8.4 of the final 
project report. Table 4.1 also shows the weight given to the various practices in the 
synergistic approach within each region. 
 
 
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
25    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
Table 4.1  Qualitative description of representation of forest management and 
wood utilization associated with forest bioenergy supply from different regions 
(see Box 1 for descriptions of abbreviated names) 
Abbreviated 
name for 
practice 
Geographical region supplying forest bioenergy (and scenario 
referred to) 
EU (C3) 
USA (C1) 
Canada (C1) 
Brazil (Any) 
Additional 
harvesting 
● 
●● 
●●● 
0 
Small/early 
thinnings 
●●● 
●● 
● 
0 
Forest 
residues 
●●● 
● 
● 
0 
Industrial 
residues 
●● 
● 
● 
0 
Co-production 
● 
●● 
●●● 
0 
Additional practices in the Synergistic approach 
Co-production 
●● 
●●● 
●●●● 
0 
Afforestation 
●●● 
0 
0 
●●● 
Improvement 
of growing 
stock 
●● 
● 
0 
0 
Avoid very 
low growth 
rates 
● 
● 
● 
Not relevant 
Key to qualitative descriptions in Table 4.1: 0 no representation; ● limited representation; ●● 
moderate representation; ●●● strong representation; ●●●● very strong representation. 
 
Box 1.  Definitions for abbreviated terms for forest management                    
and wood utilization practices referred to in Table 4.1 (also Table 6.1)                        
including definitions for supporting terms 
Additional harvesting: Harvesting of trees (by thinning and particular clearfelling) to meet 
demand from bioenergy, that would not otherwise have been harvested (at any time). 
Small/early thinnings: Trees harvested as thinnings with total stemwood volume having less 
than either 5% or 10% material of sawlog dimensions (depending on the scenario). 
Forest residues: The woody biomass of trees which may be discarded in the forest following 
tree harvesting (if not extracted for use as a bioenergy feedstock) as being unsuitable for 
technical or economic utilisation for the manufacture of sawn wood, wood-based panels or paper, 
typically consisting of branchwood, stem tops, defective tree stem pieces and stem offcuts but 
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
26    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
excluding tree stumps and roots. 
Co-production: As part of additional harvesting (see definition above), the production of an 
assortment of outputs, including both long and short lived wood products, and biomass for 
energy, rather than solely harvesting for bioenergy. 
Industrial residues: Wood generated as a by-product by the wood processing and associated 
industries, including offcuts, sawdust, sawmill chips, etc., which may be disposed of or used as a 
feedstock for wood-based panels or bioenergy. 
Afforestation: The establishment of new forest areas on marginal land (constrained with the 
intention of avoiding ILUC) with the purpose of producing forest bioenergy, either as a dedicated 
bioenergy product (Brazil) or through co-production (see above) when harvesting. 
Improvement of growing stock: Activities to enhance the carbon stocks and the productive 
potential of forest areas, e.g. restoring the growing stock of degraded forest areas or increasing 
forest growth rates through tree species choices, soil fertilization, etc. 
Avoid very low growth rates: Exclusion of forest areas with very low growth rates (e.g. 2 m3 
ha-1 yr-1 and lower) from the introduction of additional harvesting to produce bioenergy. 
Sawlog: Roundwood of sufficient dimensions to be sawn lengthways for the manufacture of sawn 
wood or used for the production of veneer (mainly by peeling or slicing). 
Roundwood: All stemwood, with or without bark, including wood in its round form, or split, 
roughly squared or in other form, which is extracted during harvesting operations in a forest.  For 
the purposes of this project, roundwood can be regarded as the same as stemwood, as defined 
below. 
Stemwood: Whilst other definitions exist, in this context, this is woody material forming the 
above ground main growing shoot(s) of a tree or stand of trees, including all woody volume 
above ground with a diameter greater than 7 cm over bark, and wood in major branches where 
there is at least 3 m of “straight” length to 7 cm top diameter. 
Small roundwood (relevant to criteria in Table 6.1): Small roundwood may be defined as 
stemwood of small diameter, which does not fall into the category of sawlog, but which may 
typically be used to make fencing, or chipped to make wood-based panels, pulped to make paper, 
or used in bioenergy applications. 
Stumps: The stemwood left above ground after a tree is felled, generally still attached to the 
roots. 
Roots: In the context of this discussion, the main/coarse structural roots of a tree. 
 
Regional differences under the Precautionary approach 
For the Precautionary approach, as already noted, the supply of forest bioenergy from 
different regions was broadly related to the magnitudes of different potentials of forest 
biomass resources available within each country, with limited consideration of whether 
these different resources may lead to beneficial or deleterious outcomes in terms of 
impacts on GHG emissions.  More specifically, the variation in assumptions for the 
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
27    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
different regions reflected the composition of the forest resources in each country (see 
Section 4.8.4 of the final project report). For example, whilst not universally the case, 
the forest resource in a significant number of EU Member States is already under quite 
intensive management, i.e. involving practices such as the regular thinning and felling of 
trees, with national-scale regulation to ensure regeneration or replanting of forests and 
the maintenance of a productive forest growing stock, as part of sustainable forest 
management.  In comparison to the EU, generally, forests in Canada are also managed 
according to the principles of sustainable forest management, and some forest areas are 
managed in a very similar way to that described previously for certain EU Member 
States. However, there are also large area of forests in Canada which may not be under 
such regular intensive management, but in which harvesting (and subsequent 
regeneration) could still occur, if the right economic circumstances were to be met. 
Hence, one of the consequences for this project of the different compositions of forests 
in the EU and Canada was that there was more emphasis on bioenergy production from 
small early thinnings in forests in the EU region, whilst there was more emphasis on 
bioenergy production arising from additional harvesting in forests in Canada. 
It should be apparent that the modelling of forest management and wood utilization to 
supply bioenergy from forests under the Precautionary approach took a “neutral” 
position with regard to the forest resource in each country; there was no selection of 
particular types of forest for supplying bioenergy, which might lead either to better or 
worse outcomes in terms of impacts on GHG emissions.  In reality, if it were possible to 
identify those forest management and wood utilization practices that led to better 
outcomes, then these practices could be preferred over those that lead to worse 
outcomes.  However, for defining the Precautionary approach in this project, the project 
team considered it inappropriate to make any presumption that certain forest areas or 
practices would be preferred over others in supplying forest bioenergy from the different 
countries. 
Regional differences under the Synergistic approach 
Regarding the positive activities assumed to take place under the Synergistic approach: 
• Such activities were assumed to make a significant contribution towards bioenergy 
supply from forests in the EU region 
• There was only limited representation of such activities in the USA.  The main activity 
represented was increased co-production of wood for material uses alongside energy, 
with some representation of improvements to forest growing stock and no additional 
afforestation activities 
• There was no representation of such activities in Canada, apart from increased co-
production of wood for material uses alongside energy 
• Afforestation activities related to bioenergy supply to the EU from outside the EU 
region were represented solely by assuming that the increased demand for bioenergy 
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
28    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
in the EU region would lead to a market response involving the establishment of high-
productivity plantations dedicated to bioenergy production on formerly degraded 
agricultural land in Brazil. 
The varying assumptions for different regions reflected cautiousness in defining the 
activities represented in the Synergistic approach, notably with regard to Canada and 
the USA.  Specifically, it was considered important not to overstate the potential for 
introducing or encouraging positive activities in the forest sector in conjunction with 
increased biomass supply from regions outside the EU. 
The various assumptions made in defining the forest management and wood utilization 
practices involved in supplying bioenergy, from the different supplying regions and for 
the different scenarios, had consequences for the main project results, i.e. the estimated 
impacts on GHG emissions. This point is explored further in Section 5, in particular 
Section 5.3. 
5. Key findings 
As already explained in Section 4.2, the main results presented in the final project report 
were based on the scenarios involving the Precautionary approach to forest management 
and wood utilization.  It follows that the main results do not allow for the possibility that 
increased supply of forest biomass for energy use could be accompanied by additional 
constraints or activities aimed at ensuring beneficial impacts on GHG emissions. 
The main project results, and the key findings drawn from them, are summarized here in 
Sections 5.1 to 5.4 below. 
5.1. Total annual GHG emissions 
Figure 5.1 shows the results obtained for the trajectories of the total annual GHG 
emissions in the EU region over the period 2010 to 2050 for all scenarios, assuming 
basic sustainability safeguards (Precautionary approach).  As the original report to the 
EC highlighted, in all cases the net result is of deepening emissions reductions over the 
period for all scenarios, with varying magnitude. In the case of the Reference Scenario 
(A), the continuing reductions in GHG emissions after 2020 are mainly as a result of 
strengthening of targets under the EU ETS. 
It can also be seen that from 2020 onwards, all the four scenarios of continued 
bioenergy use, as well as the scenario that represents reduced bioenergy use, achieve 
greater total GHG emissions reductions than the Reference Scenario (A).  This reflects 
the setting of much more ambitious targets for GHG emissions reductions after 2020 in 
the decarbonisation scenarios, requiring the adoption of more ambitious climate and 
energy policies and implementation mechanisms compared to the Reference Scenario.  
The deeper GHG emissions reductions achieved in the decarbonisation scenarios are 
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
29    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
related to changes in the types of bioenergy and non-bioenergy sources and conversion 
technologies that are represented in the energy mix in the different scenarios.  
 
Figure 5.1. Total annual GHG emissions. 
It is important to recognize that these results reflect the totality of all measures included 
in each scenario (i.e. with regard to both bioenergy use and the use of other energy 
sources or improvements in energy efficiency).  Hence it is not possible to tell 
directly from the figure whether bioenergy use in each of the scenarios is 
contributing towards, or detracting from, the estimated GHG emissions 
reductions. 
5.2. GHG impacts of key energy sources 
In order to better inform the interpretation of the results of the Bioimpact Project, the 
project team undertook more detailed analysis of the results with the aim of clarifying 
the reasons for the differences between scenarios.  However it must be recalled that a 
CLCA methodology was applied in this project, because the principal aim was to 
determine the total collective consequences of defined policy options.  CLCA does not 
involve attributing specific GHG emissions to individual components of the system (e.g. 
specific biomass feedstocks or other sources of energy).  Nevertheless it was possible to 
estimate the contributions to total GHG emissions reductions in the different 
decarbonisation scenarios, compared to the Reference Scenario, arising from broadly 
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
30    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
defined types of energy source of interest to this project, i.e. “Fossil”, “Bioenergy” and 
“Other” sources.  Table 5.1 shows the results obtained for the year 2030. 
Table 5.1 Changes in total annual GHG emissions in 2030 relative                      
to the Reference Scenario (A) 
Scenario 
GHG emissions 2030 (MtCO2-eq.yr-1) 
Fossil 
Bioenergy 
Other 
Total 
B (Carry on, 
unconstrained use) 
-456 
77 
2 
-378 
C1 (Carry on, 
imported wood) 
-458 
108 
-11 
-360 
C2 (Carry on, 
domestic crops) 
-460 
0 
-17 
-478 
C3 (Carry on, 
domestic wood) 
-460 
64 
-18 
-415 
D (Back off) 
-454 
-95 
41 
-508 
 
It is necessary to clarify what the broad energy types referred to in Table 5.1 actually 
represent: 
• “Fossil” consists of the GHG emissions reported in the project results as “EU emissions 
(non-biomass)” and consists mainly, but not entirely, of GHG emissions as a result of 
the use of fossil fuels 
• “Bioenergy” consists of the sum of GHG emissions associated with bioenergy sources; 
specifically, the categories, “Agricultural biomass”, “Energy crops” (which includes 
biofuel crops) and the various categories of “Wood Fuel/HWP Co-products”, as 
reported in the project results 
• “Other” consists of the sum of contributions for all other categories reported in the 
project results, notably “Imported Fossil Fuel and Nuclear Fuels, and Electricity”. 
The GHG emissions reported under the category Bioenergy include several contributions: 
• Biogenic emissions due directly to the combustion of biomass 
• Biogenic emissions/sequestration as a result of changes in vegetation, litter and soil 
carbon dynamics of agricultural and forest land, arising from bioenergy production 
(see detailed discussion in Sections 3.3 and 3.4) 
• Emissions as a result of the processing of bioenergy sources and conversion systems 
• Emissions arising from the manufacture of co-products of the bioenergy sources, 
including for example animal feed and notably wood co-produced for the manufacture 
of material products 
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
31    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
• Changes in emissions, which may be a reduction, as a result of counterfactual 
products being displaced by the co-products of the bioenergy sources (see previous 
point) 
• Biogenic emissions from the disposal of material wood co-products at end of life, also 
allowing for changes in emissions as a result of displacing of counterfactual products. 
The results in Table 5.1 for the Bioenergy and Other categories do not include the GHG 
emissions savings achieved through the consumption of these energy sources in place of 
alternative (counterfactuals). These savings are included in the results for the Fossil 
category and contribute towards the GHG emissions reductions reported for this 
category. 
5.2.1. Observations on results for 2030 
The results in Table 5.1 show that: 
• The GHG emissions in the Bioenergy category vary significantly between scenarios as 
a result of the amount and type of bioenergy assumed to be used.  There is a strong 
positive relationship between these emissions and the level of bioenergy consumption 
in the scenarios, compared to the Reference Scenario, particularly forest bioenergy 
consumption (i.e. the higher the levels of forest bioenergy consumption in the 
scenario the higher the GHG emissions).  For the scenarios that represent continued 
bioenergy use, the emissions vary between 0 MtCO2-eq for the scenario with the 
lowest use of forest bioenergy in 2030 (C2) and 108 MtCO2-eq for the scenario with 
the highest use of forest bioenergy in 2030 (C1). 
• GHG emissions in the Fossil category are very similar for all scenarios, i.e. a reduction 
of the order of 460 MtCO2-eq per annum.  The reduction in emissions in this category 
is the result of all the activities contributing towards the intended policy targets 
assumed in each scenario, including increased or decreased consumption of bioenergy 
and other non-fossil energy sources.  GHG emissions increases in the Bioenergy 
category for the Carry on scenarios are always of considerably smaller magnitude 
than the emissions reductions in the Fossil category.  However, in the scenarios with 
relatively high forest bioenergy consumption, the emissions increases in the Bioenergy 
category represent between 14% and 24% of the emissions reductions in the Fossil 
category.   
• In the scenario that represents backing away from bioenergy (D), GHG emissions in 
the Bioenergy category are reduced as a result of lower consumption of bioenergy 
(particularly forest bioenergy), compared with the Reference Scenario.  However, 
emissions in the Other category are increased as a result of greater use of these 
energy sources, although the magnitude of this emissions increase is smaller than the 
increases in the Bioenergy category for the high bioenergy scenarios (with one 
exception). 
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
32    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
5.2.2. Conclusions on results for broad contributions to GHG impacts 
Bearing in mind the caveats attached to results presented in Table 5.1, based on the 
main results, it may be concluded that: 
• The decarbonisation scenarios can be ranked according to the total GHG emissions 
reductions achieved 
• Generally, the greater the contribution made by forest bioenergy, the smaller the 
magnitude of total GHG emissions reductions 
• The scenario that represents backing away from bioenergy (D) delivers the greatest 
GHG emissions reductions 
• All decarbonisation scenarios lead to fairly similar reductions in overall EU emissions ; 
at most, the difference between the best (scenario D) and the worst (C1) is only a 3% 
reduction in total EU GHG emissions 
• In 2050, by which time the level of bioenergy consumption in the bioenergy scenarios 
is very high, the additional reduction in total GHG emissions achieved by Scenario D in 
comparison with Scenarios B to C3 is more significant, respectively, 20%, 18%, 8% 
and 8%. 
Scenario D (Back off) achieves GHG emissions reductions with less bioenergy 
consumption, and instead involves greater efforts towards deployment of a range of 
other low-carbon energy solutions. 
5.3. GHG impacts of forest bioenergy 
One of the key findings of the discussion in Section 5.2 concerned the apparent 
importance of the contribution of forest bioenergy in determining the magnitude of GHG 
emissions reductions in the different decarbonisation scenarios.  As a result this topic 
was further investigated through additional detailed analysis, as described in Section 6.9 
of the final project report, in particular Section 6.9.4. 
Looking in more detail at the impact of forest bioenergy specifically on the net difference 
in GHG emissions between the scenarios and Reference Scenario A shows some 
interesting variation. Figure 5.2, below, shows the net difference in GHG emissions 
relative to Reference Scenario A solely as a result of forest biomass consumption 
for energy.   
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
33    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
 
Figure 5.2. Range of net differences in GHG emissions as a result of forest 
bioenergy relative to Reference Scenario A. 
In order to illustrate the range of results, for each of the four decarbonization scenarios, 
a ‘high’ and ‘low’ emissions situation was modelled.  The main difference between these 
two is in the choice of fossil energy counterfactuals, natural gas in the ‘high’ case, coal in 
the ‘low’ case.   
Figure 5.2 presents a lot of information in one graph and it is not always easy to follow 
the trajectories for individual scenarios.  To assist with interpretation, Figures 5.3, 5.4 
and 5.5 show snapshots of the results for different scenarios for each of the years 2030, 
2040 and 2050 respectively. 
-100
-50
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
2010
2015
2020
2025
2030
2035
2040
2045
2050
Net difference in GHG emissions (MtCO2-eq. yr-1)
Year
Scenario B; Low
Scenario B; High
Scenario C1; Low
Scenario C1; High
Scenario C2; Low
Scenario C2; High
Scenario C3; Low
Scenario C3; High
Scenario D; Low
Scenario D; High
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
34    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
 
Figure 5.3. Range of net differences in GHG emissions in 2030 as a result of 
forest bioenergy relative to the Reference Scenario (A). 
 
Figure 5.4. Range of net differences in GHG emissions in 2040 as a result of 
forest bioenergy relative to the Reference Scenario (A). 
 
-40
-30
-20
-10
0
10
20
30
40
50
Net difference in GHG emissions    
(MtCO2-eq yr-1)
Scenario
B
C1
C2
C3
D
-100
-50
0
50
100
150
200
Net difference in GHG emissions   
(MtCO2-eq yr-1)
Scenario
B
C1
C2
C3
D
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
35    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
 
Figure 5.5. Range of net differences in GHG emissions in 2050 as a result of 
forest bioenergy relative to the Reference Scenario (A). 
From Figures 5.2 to 5.5 it is possible to make certain observations about the impacts on 
GHG emissions as a result of forest bioenergy as represented in the decarbonisation 
scenarios: 
• It can be seen that in the scenarios where bioenergy use is unconstrained, or comes 
largely from imported wood (Scenarios B and C1), GHG emissions as a result of forest 
bioenergy increase over time, compared to the Reference Scenario A, and are 
significantly greater by 2040. 
• Scenario C2 (Carry on, domestic crops) does not display any substantial differences in 
terms of GHG emissions from forest bioenergy use compared to Reference Scenario A 
until after about 2040, when there is an increase. 
• The scenario that emphasizes bioenergy supply from forests in the EU region 
(Scenario C3) delivers GHG reductions as a result of forest bioenergy in the near term 
that are comparable to those that are estimated for forest bioenergy in Scenario D, 
which represents a strategy of backing away from bioenergy.  However, after 2040, 
by which time the level of forest bioenergy consumption represented in the Carry on 
scenarios has become very high, the net GHG emissions as a result of forest 
bioenergy start to rise relative to the Reference Scenario (and also Scenario D). 
• Scenario D (Back off) also shows deepening GHG emissions reductions from forest 
bioenergy compared to Reference Scenario A over most of the period to 2050. 
-100
-50
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
Net difference in GHG emissions   
(MtCO2-eq yr-1)
Scenario
B
C1
C2
C3
D
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
36    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
The results appear to suggest important differences in the GHG impacts of forest 
bioenergy supplied from forests in the EU region and forest bioenergy imported from 
other countries.  However this is not a basis for drawing simplistic conclusions about the 
impacts of consuming domestically produced and imported forest bioenergy sources. 
As explained in Section 4, notably in Section 4.2.2, the modelling of forest bioenergy 
supply from different geographical regions involved detailed assumptions about forest 
management and wood utilization, which varied significantly between regions. 
Based on the results presented above, and description of scenarios in Section 4, notably 
in Section 4.2.2 and in Table 4.1, it may be tentatively concluded that, with specific 
regard to forest bioenergy sources (see definitions of practices in Box 1, Section 
4.2.2): 
• The scenario of unconstrained bioenergy use (B) and the scenario with higher 
imported wood (C1) achieve the lowest GHG reductions because they emphasize 
forest management and wood utilization practices involving additional harvesting and 
place less emphasis on the utilization of small/early thinnings, forest residues and 
industrial residues 
• The scenario that emphasizes domestic forest bioenergy (C3) performs relatively well 
because it emphasizes forest management and wood utilization practices involving 
utilization of small/early thinnings, forest residues and industrial residues and places 
less emphasis on additional harvesting 
• The scenario that backs away from bioenergy (D) also performs best in GHG 
reductions because the level of forest bioenergy production is lower than in the 
Reference Scenario, as a result of the de-prioritization of bioenergy consumption. 
The implications of these conclusions are that (see definitions of practices in Box 1, 
Section 4.2.2): 
• Bioenergy production involving additional harvesting, even if that involves co-
production as part of additional harvesting, involves significant risks of high GHG 
emissions 
• Bioenergy production involving utilization of small/early thinnings, forest residues and 
industrial residues involves low risks and should lead to low GHG emissions. 
5.4. Cost and technical implications of scenarios 
The main final report for the Bioimpact project included in Section 6.8 an assessment of 
the economic costs associated with the different scenarios. The assessment appeared to 
suggest that the scenario involving a backing away from bioenergy (D) involved greater 
costs than the scenarios involving increased consumption of bioenergy (B, C1, C2 and 
C3). The discussion of the cost results explained that this result was obtained because 
biomass energy sources were estimated to be relatively low cost. The assessment 
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
37    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
allowed for the existence of other low-cost, low-carbon energy options, including the 
deployment of solar and wind energy where appropriate. However, according to the 
assessment, when future consumption of bioenergy was constrained such as in Scenario 
D, the remaining low-cost energy options were not sufficient to meet future targets for 
renewable energy consumption and GHG emissions reduction. Hence, some higher-cost 
options needed to be included as part of actions taken to meet the targets. There was 
also some increased reliance on imported energy sources. 
The Bioimpact project team made considerable efforts to compile the best possible cost 
estimate for different energy sources, including bioenergy and the team considers that 
the cost assessment was reasonably robust. However, this view is not shared by all 
stakeholders and it must be accepted that estimating the relative cost of energy sources 
up to 35 years into the future involves speculation. It must also be acknowledged that 
certain costs likely to be involved with more sophisticated deployment of certain 
bioenergy sources were not considered as part of the assessment (see Section 5.5) and 
that costs of wind and solar have fallen unexpectedly fast in recent years.. 
5.5. Measures to support forest bioenergy 
consumption with low GHG emissions 
In addition to presenting the main project results, the final report of the Bioimpact 
project also considered results for scenarios involving the synergistic approach to forest 
management and wood utilization. The interpretation of these results was complex and 
has been contended by some stakeholders, hence, a simplified analysis and 
interpretation is presented here, limited to result for forest bioenergy produced from EU 
forests (this means the analysis excludes any contributions arising from forest biomass 
supplied to the EU through afforestation activities in Brazil, and as a result of limited 
changes in forestry activities in Canada and the USA, mainly involving more emphasis on 
co-production of wood for use as materials alongside bioenergy). 
Compared to the main project results, across all scenarios, the results for the 
Synergistic approach modelled for EU forests indicate reductions in GHG emission could 
be achieved, amounting to about 40, 110 and 140 MtCO2 yr-1 in 2020, 2030 and 2040 
onwards, respectively. These reductions, achieved solely through activities involving 
wood production from EU forests, would: 
• More than compensate for the net increases in GHG emissions estimated for forest 
bioenergy consumption, where these occur in the main project results for the 
scenarios emphasizing bioenergy supplied from agricultural or forest sources in the EU 
region (C2 and C3), giving net GHG savings 
• Give deeper GHG savings for the scenario involving backing away from bioenergy 
consumption (D). 
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
38    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
For the scenario emphasizing consumption of imported forest bioenergy sources (C1), 
the GHG emissions reductions estimated for the Synergistic approach would give overall 
net GHG savings until about 2040, after which the high levels of forest bioenergy 
consumption in the scenario would lead to a net increase in GHG emissions. 
Taken superficially, the results for the Synergistic approach seem to suggest that forest 
biomass can be used as an energy source with low GHG emissions, if the types of 
activities represented under the Synergistic approach for EU forests can be promoted in 
the EU and possibly more widely, as part of bioenergy production. This view is reinforced 
when it is noted that not all possible activities that could be involved in producing 
biomass from forests with low carbon impacts were represented in the modelling for the 
Synergistic approach (an important example is the enhancement of forest growth rates 
as part of maintaining and restoring forest growing stock). However, such a simple 
conclusion could be viewed as seriously flawed. As already pointed out, the GHG 
emissions reductions estimated for the Synergistic approach are similar for all scenarios, 
including the scenario involving backing away from bioenergy consumption (D). This 
raises the question: couldn’t activities such as represented in the Synergistic approach 
just be promoted anyway, without any association with increased bioenergy 
consumption, for example as part of measures aimed at climate change mitigation in the 
land use sector? 
It is true that, in many (but not all) cases, relevant activities in the forest sector are not 
inevitably connected with bioenergy production and could be carried out regardless of 
any commitment to supplying forest biomass for use as an energy source. 
Notwithstanding, it remains the case that these activities are likely to require a 
framework to support their adoption, since this would be unlikely to occur as a result of 
simple commercial decisions about forest management. It follows that there is a choice 
to be made between: 
• Not supporting such activities 
• Supporting relevant activities through a suitable framework covering land use and 
forestry (i.e. not connected specifically with the consumption of forest biomass for 
energy or other purposes) 
• Supporting relevant activities through a suitable framework covering the consumption 
of forest biomass (for energy and possibly for materials) 
• Supporting relevant activities through an integrated approach to frameworks covering 
land use, forestry and the consumption of forest biomass for materials and energy. 
It is the view of the Bioimpact project team that an important opportunity would be 
missed if an integrated approach were not to be taken to supporting climate change 
mitigation activities involving land use, forestry and forest biomass consumption, 
particularly if the consumption of forest biomass for energy is viewed as a potential 
problem. Furthermore, there is an existing strong interest in the EU to increase forest 
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
39    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
biomass production as part of the development of a low-carbon “bioeconomy”, hence 
there is a natural opportunity to link such developments to support for low-carbon 
impact approaches to forest management and wood consumption. Supporting 
frameworks could be developed solely from the point of view of land use and forestry, 
but these may cost more if the existing impetus towards a bioeconomy is not harnessed. 
It should however be noted that while the EU has a relatively strong influence over 
energy policies, the forestry policies of individual Member States are largely a national 
competence and so the scope for EU directed action is limited, even within the EU. 
Two important caveats must be attached to the previous points. 
Firstly, forests in different EU Member States are very variable (e.g. in terms of tree 
species, growth rates, levels and types of management and risks of natural 
disturbances). As a consequence, opportunities for (and challenges to) the production of 
forest bioenergy with low carbon impacts occur unevenly across Member States. In 
principle, this could be addressed by managing efforts cooperatively at the scale of the 
EU and allowing for variations in the contributions made by individual Member States. 
Such an approach could be challenging to implement but could overcome potential 
barriers at national scale. 
Secondly, the Bioimpact project did not include an assessment of any additional costs 
associated with the types of activities covered by the Synergistic approach. It may be 
speculated that the application of a mechanism to support these types of activities in 
conjunction with forest bioenergy supply would be likely to “even out” the relative 
performance of the scenarios involving increased bioenergy consumption (C1, C2 and 
C3) and the scenario involving backing away from bioenergy consumption (D), in terms 
of GHG impacts but also in terms of costs. 
6. Implications for regulation of 
bioenergy 
The key findings and conclusions of this project, as presented in Section 5, would appear 
to suggest two major policy options with regard to renewable energy and the potential 
contribution of bioenergy. 
One option would involve de-prioritizing bioenergy in order to avoid potential risks 
associated with some bioenergy sources, whilst noting that this would be likely to require 
at least some of the following: 
• The increased use of other renewable energy sources (particularly solar and wind 
power) 
• More concerted efforts towards energy efficiency or demand-side response in the EU 
region across all sectors, but particularly in the residential and transport sectors 
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
40    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
• Increased use of nuclear power (involving both current and assumed future 
technologies) 
• Increased reliance on imports of natural gas, nuclear fuels and electricity into the EU 
region from elsewhere 
• Some increased deployment of carbon capture and storage technologies. 
The alternative option would be to carry on with supporting a contribution from 
bioenergy sources towards targets for renewable energy and GHG emissions reductions, 
whilst putting in place a policy framework capable of ensuring that bioenergy sources 
genuinely lead to significant near-term reductions in GHG emissions compared to fossil 
fuels. 
If the bioenergy option were to be pursued, it is important to recognize that this study 
has identified that bioenergy, and forest bioenergy in particular, can be a potential 
contributor to increased GHG emissions.  However, this is not inevitable if a framework 
is adopted to ensure only agricultural and forest biomass sources that deliver genuine 
emissions reductions are used for energy purposes. 
6.1. General guidelines for bioenergy sources 
Certain general guidelines for agricultural and forest bioenergy supply can be identified: 
• Avoid serious risk of ILUC 
• Keep levels of supply within sustainable yield capacity 
• Limit negative impacts on carbon stocks of agricultural soils and forests (trees, litter 
and soils) and their capacity for future carbon sequestration 
• In the case of forest bioenergy, avoid negative impacts on the potential supplies of 
wood for manufactured wood products, where these pathways have clearly lower-
carbon impacts compared to using the wood for bioenergy. 
In addition, for forest bioenergy sources, it is important to ensure that these sources 
provide genuine GHG emissions reductions within relatively short time scales (e.g. 
before 2050 and preferably sooner).  Because of the complexity of forestry systems, 
their management and the many ways in which harvested wood is utilized, it is 
challenging to develop a simple guide to forest bioenergy sources that should ensure 
that GHG emissions reductions are achieved over timescales relevant to avoiding 
runaway climate change and supporting the temperature goals established by the Paris 
Agreement. 
The final project report for the Bioimpact project included a proposed approach based on 
a decision tree (Section 2.4 and Appendix 1), for the assessment of forest bioenergy 
sources, in terms of the likelihood of achieving reductions in GHG emissions compared to 
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
41    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
fossil fuels, or risks of causing GHG emissions increases. This approach was welcomed 
by some stakeholders but considered too complicated by others. Below, an alternative 
approach is suggested, based on an extremely simplified decision tree (Figure 6.1) and a 
supporting table of criteria related to aspects of forest management and wood utilization 
for energy (Table 6.1). 
The decision tree allows the assessor the option of first considering a set of criteria 
concerned with aspects of forest management associated with the harvesting of wood for 
energy purposes. These criteria are listed in part (a) of Table 6.1. 
If the outcome of the assessment based on part (a) is immediately positive, a 
requirement to consider a second set of criteria (concerned with the utilization of specific 
wood feedstocks for energy) is significantly relaxed. (Specifically, it is then necessary to 
consider only two “mandatory” criteria related to wood feedstocks.) 
In many situations it may be challenging for assessors to establish the nature of forest 
management involved in the supply of wood for utilization as energy (for example, there 
may be difficulties in tracing parcels of harvested wood back to the areas of forest that 
they originated from). In these circumstances, the assessor has the option of not 
referring to part (a) of Table 6.1 but instead proceeding directly to considering the full 
second set of criteria concerned with wood feedstocks. These criteria are listed in part 
(b) of Table 6.1. 
Often, the outcome of the assessment based on forest management criteria in part (a) 
of Table 6.1 will require the assessor also to consider the full list of wood feedstock 
criteria in part (b). 
The above approach could be relevant when evaluating other existing or proposed 
approaches to regulating bioenergy consumption in the EU.  The examples of greatest 
current relevance in the context of this discussion are: 
• The existing EU Renewable Energy Directive (RED) 
• A “Proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and the Council on the 
promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources (recast)”, otherwise referred 
to as the REDII proposal 
• Of indirect relevance, but potentially high importance, the framework adopted for 
accounting for Forest Land in national GHG emissions inventories after 2020. 
Table 6.1 also includes a comparison of the various provisions of the REDII proposal with 
the criteria derived from this project; this is discussed further in Section 6.2. 
As with the decision tree presented in the original final project report, the designs of the 
decision tree and table of criteria presented here are provisional and likely to require 
further refinement. 
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
42    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
 
Figure 6.1  Decision flow diagram for application of criteria in Table 6.1. 
Start
Do you want to consider 
the option of forest 
management criteria?
No
Yes
Refer to 
criteria in Part 
(a) of Table 3
From the assessment 
based on Part (a), is it 
necessary to consider the 
conditional criteria in 
Part (b)?
Yes
No
Refer to 
mandatory 
criteria in   
Part (b) only
Refer to both 
mandatory and 
conditional 
criteria in Part (b)
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
43    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
Table 6.1 Tentative criteria for forest management and wood utilization aimed at bioenergy supply with low risks of 
increased GHG emissions compared to fossil fuels: Part (a) – Forest management 
Criterion 
Practice 
Representation under proposed REDII 
Deforestation 
Disallow supplies of forest bioenergy that lead to 
deforestation. 
Article 26 para 5 requires that “forest regeneration of 
harvested areas takes place” 
Article 26 para 3 addressing agricultural production 
requires that “biomass fuels […] shall not be made from 
raw material obtained from land with high carbon stock, 
namely land that had one of the following statuses in 
January 2008 and no longer has that status: […] 
continuously forested areas […];  
land spanning more than one hectare with trees […] unless 
evidence is provided that [the calculated GHG savings 
would be sufficient]” (text in square brackets added for 
clarity). 
Afforestation 
Strongly favour supplies of forest bioenergy where these 
are explicitly associated with afforestation activities (see 
Sections 4.2.2 and 5.5). However, avoid afforestation 
activities: 
● On soils with existing high organic carbon content  
● That lead to high risks of indirect land-use change. 
No specific proposals for promoting desirable activities 
other than general GHG emissions criteria (Article 26 para 
7 (d)), see also discussion in Sections 6.2.1 and 6.2.2 
See separate discussion of regulation of LULUCF (Section 
6.3) 
 
 
 
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
44    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
Table 6.1 Tentative criteria for forest management and wood utilization aimed at bioenergy supply with low risks of 
increased GHG emissions compared to fossil fuels: Part (a) – Forest management (continued) 
Criterion 
Practice 
Representation under proposed REDII 
Improvement of 
growing stock 
Strongly favour supplies of forest bioenergy where these 
are explicitly associated with activities to conserve and 
enhance forest growing stock, carbon stocks and forest 
productivity (see Sections 4.2.2 and 5.5). 
There have been several previous discussions of the types 
of forest management involved in improving growing stock.  
Examples may be found in Schelhaas et al. (2006) and 
Sections 8.3 to 8.5 of Matthews et al. (2017)9. 
No specific proposals for promoting desirable activities 
other than general GHG emissions criteria (Article 26 para 
7 (d)), however, positive impacts on carbon stocks not 
explicitly covered as no land-use change takes place, see 
Sections 6.2.1 and 6.2.2 
See separate discussion of regulation of LULUCF (Section 
6.3) 
Growth rate 
Disfavour forest bioenergy production from forest areas 
with low growth rates. Tentatively, low growth rate is 
defined as 2 m3 ha-1 yr-1 or less. Possible exemptions in 
some cases, e.g. disease infested forest areas. 
Not explicitly covered as no land-use change takes place, 
see Sections 6.2.1 and 6.2.2, however, 
Article 26 para 5 requires that “harvesting does not exceed 
the long-term production capacity of the forest” which 
would tend to disfavour harvesting in areas with low 
growth rates 
 
 
 
                                       
9 Schelhaas, M.J., Cienciala, E., Lindner, M., Nabuurs, G.J., and Meyer, J. (2006) Survey of technical and management-based mitigation measures 
in forestry. MEACAP WP4 D13. At: https://ieep.eu/publications/meacap-survey-of-technical-and-management-based-mitigation-measures-in-
forestry; 
Matthews, R.W., Mackie, E.D. and Sayce, M. (2017) Natural Resources Wales Carbon Positive Project: greenhouse gas emissions and removals 
from woodlands on the NRW estate. Final project report to Natural Resources Wales. Forest Research: Farnham (awaiting publication by NRW). 
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
45    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
Table 6.1 Tentative criteria for forest management and wood utilization aimed at bioenergy supply with low risks of 
increased GHG emissions compared to fossil fuels: Part (a) – Forest management (continued) 
Criterion 
Practice 
Representation under proposed REDII 
Thinning and 
(clear)felling 
If the level of supply of forest bioenergy from thinning and 
felling activities in forest areas is consistent with long-term 
historical levels, and with the principle of sustainable yield, 
then risks of issues with GHG emissions are low. 
If the level of forest bioenergy from thinning and felling 
activities in forest areas involves increased supply 
compared with long-term historical levels, then favour 
production from thinning over production from felling, with 
the aims of: 
● Improving the quality of the remaining growing stock 
● Minimising disturbance of litter and soil carbon. 
If, and only if, the level of forest bioenergy from 
thinning and felling activities in forest areas involves 
increased supply compared with long-term historical 
levels, then it is necessary to consider the 
conditional criteria as well as the mandatory criteria 
regarding use of wood feedstocks for bioenergy in 
Part (b). 
Possible impacts on forest carbon stocks not explicitly 
covered as no land-use change takes place, see Sections 
6.2.1 and 6.2.2 
See separate discussion of regulation of LULUCF (Section 
6.3) 
 
 
 
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
46    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
Table 6.1 Tentative criteria for forest management and wood utilization aimed at bioenergy supply with low risks of 
increased GHG emissions compared to fossil fuels: Part (b) – Wood supply and feedstocks 
Criterion (feedstock) 
Practice 
Representation under proposed REDII 
Scale of forest 
bioenergy use: 
Mandatory criterion 
Aim for levels of forest bioenergy use that are well within 
the long-term sustainable-yield capacity of the supplying 
forest areas. 
When setting levels for bioenergy use, take account of the 
consumption of biomass for other uses (i.e. materials) and 
levels of biomass consumption outside the EU region.. 
Article 26 para 5 requires that  
“harvesting does not exceed the long-term production 
capacity of the forest” 
Stumps including roots: 
Mandatory criterion 
Strongly disfavour supplies of forest bioenergy from 
stumps including roots. 
No specific provisions in REDII. 
Likely negative impacts on forest carbon stocks not 
explicitly covered as no land-use change takes place, see 
Sections 6.2.1 and 6.2.2 
Post-consumer waste 
wood: Conditional 
criterion 
Strongly favour supplies of forest bioenergy from post-
consumer waste wood. Particularly favour such sources 
where the waste wood would otherwise be burnt or put in 
landfill without energy recovery. Also favour use of waste 
wood at levels that do not compete with current levels of 
consumption of such feedstocks for material uses (e.g. 
wood-based panels). 
Article 26 para 1 states “biomass fuels produced from 
waste and residues, other than agricultural, aquaculture, 
fisheries and forestry residues, need only fulfil the 
sustainability greenhouse gas emissions saving criteria” 
Provided that process and transport GHG emissions are 
small, this should encourage use of post-consumer waste 
where technical challenges, e.g. contamination, are not an 
issue 
Industrial residues: 
Conditional criterion 
Strongly favour supplies of forest bioenergy from industrial 
residues. Particularly favour such sources where the 
residues would otherwise be burnt as waste without energy 
recovery. Also favour use of industrial residues at levels 
that do not compete with current levels of consumption of 
such feedstocks for material uses (e.g. wood-based 
panels). 
See above, industrial residues generated in the wood 
processing sector are explicitly excluded from the definition 
of forestry residues (Article 2) 
No explicit requirement to avoid feedstock competition with 
other products 
There is a possibility that some feedstock could be derived 
from unsustainable forestry activities 
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
47    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
Table 6.1 Tentative criteria for forest management and wood utilization aimed at bioenergy supply with low risks of 
increased GHG emissions compared to fossil fuels: Part (b) – Wood supply and feedstocks (continued) 
Criterion (feedstock) 
Practice 
Representation under proposed REDII 
Forest residues: 
Conditional criterion 
Strongly favour supplies of bioenergy from fast-decaying 
forest residues (i.e. apart from stumps including roots or 
other large residues) provided this avoids levels of 
extraction of forest residues that lead to high risks of 
degradation of site/soil quality (e.g. carbon stocks, nutrient 
status, water balance). 
No specific provisions in the REDII 
Possible impacts on forest carbon stocks not explicitly 
covered as no land-use change takes place, see Sections 
6.2.1 and 6.2.2 
Salvage logging: 
Conditional criterion 
Favour supplies of wood biomass from salvage logging 
where a simply calculated but robust estimate of GHG 
emissions meets a defined minimum threshold. 
The use of specific forest biomass feedstocks is neither 
encouraged nor discouraged in the sustainability criteria 
Possible impacts on forest carbon stocks not explicitly 
covered as no land-use change takes place, see Sections 
6.2.1 and 6.2.2 
Whole tree stems: 
Conditional criterion 
Restrict supplies of forest bioenergy from whole tree stems 
to small/early thinnings, with the aim of improving the 
quality of the remaining growing stock. Favour situations in 
which, otherwise, there would be limited incentives to thin 
and improve forest stands. 
Alternatively, favour supplies of wood biomass from 
small/early thinnings where a simply calculated but robust 
estimate of GHG emissions meets a defined minimum 
threshold. 
No specific provisions in REDII. 
Possible impacts on forest carbon stocks as a result of 
increased thinning not explicitly covered as no land-use 
change takes place, see Sections 6.2.1 and 6.2.2 
 
 
 
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
48    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
Table 6.1 Tentative criteria for forest management and wood utilization aimed at bioenergy supply with low risks of 
increased GHG emissions compared to fossil fuels: Part (b) – Wood supply and feedstocks (continued) 
Criterion (feedstock) 
Practice 
Representation under proposed REDII 
Small roundwood: 
Conditional criterion 
Favour supplies of forest bioenergy from small roundwood 
at levels that do not compete with current levels of 
consumption of such feedstocks for material uses. 
Particularly favour such sources where the small 
roundwood would otherwise be burnt without energy 
recovery or sent to landfill. 
No specific provisions in REDII. 
No explicit requirement to avoid feedstock competition with 
other products 
Where harvesting (thinning or felling) is increased, possible 
impacts on forest carbon stocks not explicitly covered as 
no land-use change takes place, see Sections 6.2.1 and 
6.2.2  
Sawn timber, especially 
suitable for construction 
uses: Conditional 
criterion 
Strongly disfavour supplies of forest bioenergy from wood 
feedstocks suitable for use for sawn timber products. 
No specific provisions in REDII. 
Co-production: 
Conditional criterion 
Strongly favour the supply of forest bioenergy as a by-
product of wood harvesting for the supply of long-lived 
material wood products. However, it is very important to 
ensure that flanking measures are in place to ensure that 
other feedstock criteria above are met and to encourage 
the disposal of material wood products at end of life with 
energy recovery and/or in a way that ensures low GHG 
emissions. 
No specific provisions in REDII. Where harvesting (thinning 
or felling) is increased, possible impacts on forest carbon 
stocks not explicitly covered as no land-use change takes 
place, see Sections 6.2.1 and 6.2.2 
 
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
49    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
6.2. Biomass in the RED and proposed REDII 
The EU Renewable Energy Directive (RED) is the principal current regulation addressing 
bioenergy consumption in the EU of relevance to this discussion.  The stated aim of the 
RED is to establish “a common framework for the promotion of energy from renewable 
sources”. It sets mandatory national targets for the overall share of energy from 
renewable sources in gross final consumption of energy and for the share of energy from 
renewable sources in transport. It lays down rules relating to statistical transfers 
between Member States, joint projects between Member States and with third countries, 
guarantees of origin, administrative procedures, information and training, and access to 
the electricity grid for energy from renewable sources. It establishes sustainability 
criteria for biofuels and bioliquids”.  It follows that the RED specifically aims to address 
the sustainability of consumption of “biofuels” (defined as “liquid or gaseous fuel for 
transport produced from biomass”) and “bioliquids” (defined as “liquid fuel for energy 
purposes other than for transport, including electricity and heating and cooling, produced 
from biomass”).  This includes setting minimum levels for life-cycle GHG savings (for 
processing and transport emissions but excluding ILUC and impacts on vegetation and 
soil carbon stocks and forgone carbon sequestration) to be achieved by biofuels and 
bioliquids and a methodology for their calculation.  The sustainability of the utilization of 
solid biomass for heating, cooling and electricity is not within the scope of the current 
RED. 
A set of proposals has been drafted to update the RED, and these are referred to as 
REDII.  In REDII, Article 26 proposes sustainability and GHG emissions saving criteria for 
biofuels, bioliquids and also “biomass fuels”, the latter defined as “gaseous and solid 
fuels produced from biomass”.  This would include setting GHG emissions savings (for 
processing and transport emissions but excluding methane emissions from stored 
biomass fuels, ILUC and impacts on vegetation and soil carbon stocks and forgone 
carbon sequestration) to be achieved through the use of solid biomass fuels for heating, 
cooling and electricity generation.  Agricultural and forest biomass sources are explicitly 
included in the REDII proposals.  However there is an exemption for all small and 
medium-sized plant: “Biomass fuels shall have to fulfil the sustainability and greenhouse 
gas emissions saving criteria […] only if used in installations producing electricity, 
heating and cooling or fuels with a fuel capacity equal to or exceeding 20 MW in case of 
solid biomass fuels and with an electrical capacity equal to or exceeding 0.5 MW in case 
of gaseous biomass fuels”, however “Member States may apply the sustainability and 
greenhouse gas emission saving criteria to installations with lower fuel capacity”. 
In order for energy from biomass sources to contribute to EU or member state 
renewable energy targets, compliance with renewable energy obligations or to be eligible 
for financial support, they would need to meet certain sustainability and GHG emissions 
criteria (for processing and transport emissions but excluding methane emissions from 
stored biomass fuels, ILUC and impacts on vegetation and soil carbon stocks and 
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
50    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
forgone carbon sequestration) and to comply with certain land use carbon accounting 
criteria.  In the case of wastes and residues, other than agricultural or forestry residues, 
they would need only to meet the specified GHG emissions requirements. 
6.2.1. REDII proposal and calculation of GHG impacts 
Article 28 sets out how the GHG impact of biofuels, bioliquids and biomass fuels would 
be assessed, with the details given in Annex V (for biofuels and bioliquids) and Annex VI 
for biomass fuels.  Article 28 specifies how actors would calculate GHG impact, either: 
• Using default values, as provided in Annex VI Part A for biomass fuels; or 
• By calculating explicitly, using the methodology set out for biomass fuels in Annex VI 
Part B. 
The calculation in Annex VI Part B is essentially the same as specified in Annex V of the 
proposed REDII and in the existing RED for biofuels and bioliquids.  The ultimate result 
of the calculation is the total GHG emissions attributed to a biomass fuel source, which is 
made up of a number of contributions.  One of these contributions is defined as “the 
annualized emissions from carbon stock changes caused by land-use change”.  If the 
calculated value of this contribution is zero or negative (which would imply no carbon 
stock change or a net carbon stock increase caused by land-use change), then it would 
be permitted to use the default values for estimating the total GHG emissions.  The 
default values have been calculated based on an assumption of a zero value for the 
contribution arising from carbon stock changes. 
By implication, the calculation of a non-zero value for carbon stock changes is only 
required in cases where biomass production involves land-use change.  However, no 
definition is given for land-use change and it is not always clear under what 
circumstances land-use change would be considered to have taken place. 
In circumstances where it is necessary to calculate a value for carbon stock changes, the 
methodology specified in the RED and proposed REDII involves a number of significant 
simplifications.  Specifically: 
• The calculation of carbon stock changes is deliberately simplified (involving assumed 
default values for initial and final carbon stocks) and is constrained to considering 
stock changes occurring over a maximum of 20 years 
• The carbon stock changes are annualized over a standard 20 year period 
• Where biomass produced for energy purposes is co-produced with biomass utilized for 
other purposes (e.g. sawn timber, wood based panels and/or paper), the annualized 
carbon stock change is allocated to the co-products on the basis of their biomass 
energy content 
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
51    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
• The result of the above calculation steps for bioenergy sources may be adjusted by a 
“bonus” value, in situations where the biomass production is achieved by restoring 
“degraded land” according to certain conditions. 
It should be apparent that the calculation methodology proposed in REDII is not directly 
comparable with that of this study, or with other CLCA studies.  The methodology 
proposed in REDII uses a hybrid of attributional and consequential LCA approaches.  This 
is particularly pertinent when considering how the proposed REDII methodology refers to 
counterfactuals and/or allocates GHG emissions between co-products.  Reference to 
counterfactuals for products is only made for the fossil energy comparator to the 
bioenergy source(s).  For other co-products, allocation is based on energy content.  This 
methodology is fundamentally different to CLCA and will necessarily yield different 
results10. 
6.2.2. Implications of proposed calculation methodology 
There are two potentially very significant implications of the methodology proposed for 
REDII as discussed in Section 6.1.1, for calculating the contribution of carbon stock 
changes towards GHG impacts of bioenergy sources: 
1 Significant changes in land management may have taken place as part of the 
production of bioenergy, but it is possible there will be no deemed change in land use.  
Consequently the change in carbon stock is assumed to be zero, leading to no 
contribution from carbon stock changes to calculated GHG emissions; 
2 Where land-use change is deemed to have taken place, and a calculation of carbon 
stock change is required, the methodology is simplified and consequently, frequently 
the result for an individual biomass fuel will differ from that derived from a CLCA. 
It follows that it cannot be guaranteed that the calculation methodology proposed for 
REDII will always give results for GHG impacts of bioenergy sources that are consistent 
with an evaluation for policy purposes based on CLCA.  Indeed, it should be clear from 
the preceding two points that there will be many cases where the proposed REDII 
methodology will give a very different result to that obtained from CLCA.  For instance: 
                                       
10 The text of the REDII proposal (and also the original RED text) includes the statement, “Co-
products from the production and use of fuels should be taken into account in the calculation of 
greenhouse gas emissions. The substitution method [i.e. reference to counterfactual products] is 
appropriate for the purposes of policy analysis, but not for the regulation of individual economic 
operators and individual consignments of transport fuels. In those cases the energy allocation 
method is the most appropriate method, as it is easy to apply, is predictable over time, minimizes 
counter-productive incentives and produces results that are generally comparable with those 
produced by the substitution method…”.  (Text in square brackets added for clarification.)  
However, no basis is given for these claims.  In the experience of the Bioimpact project team, the 
“energy allocation method” and the “substitution method” can, and frequently do, give 
significantly different results for the GHG emissions impacts of bioenergy sources in conjunction 
with other co-products. 
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
52    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
• Most obviously (due to point 1) bioenergy sources produced through the 
intensification of harvesting or extraction of biomass from agricultural or forest land, 
but with no change of land use considered to have taken place, will be estimated to 
have no GHG impacts arising from carbon stock changes associated with them.  
Hence, in many cases, the full GHG impacts of these bioenergy sources will not be 
counted. 
• More generally, because of the simplification of calculations (point 2), the GHG 
savings achieved by bioenergy sources produced with associated carbon stock 
changes (losses or sequestration), and/or involving changes in the supply of non-
energy co-products may be overestimated or underestimated, depending on the 
details of the management of agricultural or forest land and how the harvested 
biomass is being utilized. 
If policy is developed using analysis based on one calculation methodology, and 
regulation is implemented using verification based on a different calculation 
methodology, then the regulation is unlikely to deliver the policy as intended. 
This issue could be addressed by amending the regulatory calculation methodology to 
ensure better consistency with the intended policy outcomes.  However, the need for 
practicality in regulatory mechanisms must also be acknowledged, a point stressed in 
the text of the RED and proposed REDII.  To an extent, it may be possible to ameliorate 
significant inconsistencies in a regulatory methodology and desired outcomes by 
specifying further sustainability criteria, as proposed in Figure 6.1 and Table 6.1. 
6.2.3. Other sustainability criteria in the proposed REDII 
Post-consumer waste biomass 
Post-consumer waste biomass (including post-consumer waste wood) is covered in the 
REDII proposals, implicitly through a provision in Article 26 which requires such sources 
only to meet criteria set for GHG emissions savings (as opposed to any other 
sustainability criteria, see below).  However, for reasons explained near the start of 
Section 6.2, the GHG emissions saving criteria only apply to power, heating and cooling 
installations with a (solid) biomass fuel capacity of 20 MW or more.  Where the 20 MW 
scale threshold is exceeded, demonstration of minimum GHG emissions reductions 
relative to a fossil fuel counterfactual (for heat, electricity or transport fuel) is required, 
and this increases over time.  For electricity, heat and cooling it increases from 80% to 
85% between 2021 and 2026 (based on the REDII calculation methodology – see 
above). 
Agricultural biomass 
Agricultural biomass is covered in the REDII proposals and there are a number of 
measures proposed in Article 26 to attempt to ensure sustainability and GHG emissions 
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
53    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
savings from its use. However, these only apply to power, heating and cooling 
installations with a (solid) biomass fuel capacity of 20 MW or more. 
Where the 20 MW scale threshold is exceeded, demonstration of minimum GHG 
emissions reductions is required, similarly to post-consumer waste biomass. 
In addition, land that had high biodiversity value on or after January 2008, including 
primary forest and highly biodiverse grassland, is precluded from the production of 
agricultural biomass fuels, as is land with high carbon stocks, including wetlands and 
forested areas and peatland. 
There are also provisions to address crop based biofuels, by which the Commission has 
proposed a cap on the contribution of first-generation biofuels at 2017 levels, with a 
maximum contribution to the EU energy target of 7% in road and rail transport in 2020, 
reducing to 3.8% in 2030. 
Forest biomass 
Sustainability of biomass fuels produced from forests are also addressed in the REDII 
proposals, however again exemption for plants smaller than 20 MW (fuel capacity) 
applies to solid biomass fuels consumed for power generation, heating or cooling. 
Various requirements for the land from which forest biomass is sourced, are proposed: 
• Harvesting is legal and covered by a permit (precise details of implementation will 
vary depending on national regulatory frameworks) 
• Forest regeneration of harvested areas takes place 
• Areas of high conservation value, including wetlands and peatlands, are protected 
• Impacts of forest harvesting on soil quality and biodiversity are minimized 
• Harvesting does not exceed the long-term production capacity of the forest. 
It is also required that the country in which the forest biomass is produced meets a 
number of commitments to manage and monitor GHG emissions and removals in the 
Land Use, Land-Use Change and Forestry (LULUCF) Sector, specifically: 
• The country is a Party to, and has ratified, the Paris Agreement 
• It has submitted a Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC) to the United Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), covering emissions and 
removals from agriculture, forestry and land use which ensures that either changes in 
carbon stock associated with biomass harvest are accounted towards the country's 
commitment to reduce or limit greenhouse gas emissions as specified in the NDC, or 
there are national or sub-national laws in place, in accordance with Article 5 of the 
Paris Agreement, applicable in the area of harvest, to conserve and enhance carbon 
stocks and sinks 
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
54    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
• It has a national system in place for reporting greenhouse gas emissions and 
removals from land use including forestry and agriculture, which is in accordance with 
the requirements set out in decisions adopted under the UNFCCC and the Paris 
agreement 
• Or, in cases where the above criteria are not fulfilled, that “management systems are 
in place at forest holding level to ensure that carbon stocks and sinks levels in the 
forest are maintained”. 
The role of national and international action on, and monitoring of, GHG emissions and 
carbon sequestration is an important topic and is discussed in Section 6.3. 
6.2.4. Assessment of criteria in proposed REDII 
Agricultural biomass 
A lot of the discussion in Sections 6.2.1 to 6.2.3 is concerned with forest bioenergy 
sources. However, as noted in Section 6.2.2, a key concern for biomass produced 
through use or intensification of the management of agricultural land is the likelihood 
that, in cases where no land-use change will be involved, no account is taken under EU 
legislation of issues such as ILUC, impacts on vegetation or soil carbon stocks or forgone 
carbon sequestration. There are also concerns relating to soil fertility aspects (e.g. 
removal of straw from cropland as opposed to its incorporation into the soil). If such 
cases are not deemed to involve land-use change then the likelihood is that the GHG 
savings achieved by these bioenergy sources will be overestimated. 
Forest biomass 
As mentioned in Section 6.1, the final column of Table 6.1 (Section 6.1) presents a 
comparison of the various provisions of the REDII proposal with the criteria derived from 
this project.  There is also a qualitative assessment in Table 6.1 of the extent to which 
the features of the proposed REDII would support the desired outcomes suggested by 
this project (or discourage the undesirable outcomes). In addition to giving cross 
reference to relevant draft articles of the proposed REDII, the entries in the final column 
of Table 6.1 are also colour-coded to indicate where provisions of the proposed REDII 
strongly support, weakly support or do not support the outcomes indicated for each 
criterion suggested by the findings of this project (see key in Table 6.2). 
Table 6.2 Key to colour codes of qualitative assessment in Table 6.1 
Colour code 
Support for criterion 
 
Strongly supports outcome indicated for criterion 
 
Weakly supports outcome indicated for criterion 
 
Does not support outcome indicated for criterion 
 
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
55    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
For the criteria in Table 6.1 addressing aspects of forest management: 
• The worst practices (unsustainable harvesting, deforestation) are regulated against 
• Forest management practices that could lead to significant GHG emissions savings are 
weakly supported or not supported 
• Forest management practices that could involve variable risks with regard to GHG 
emissions are not addressed. 
Most importantly, (although with a few exceptions), the criteria in Table 6.1 addressing 
aspects of the use of specific wood feedstocks are not addressed in the proposed REDII. 
6.3. Relevance to bioenergy regulation of national and 
international action on LULUCF  
As noted in the discussion of forest biomass in Section 6.2.3, the proposed REDII 
includes a sustainability criterion that a country supplying forest biomass for use as 
energy in the EU needs to meet a number of commitments to manage and monitor GHG 
emissions and CO2 sequestration in the LULUCF sector. These include the supplying 
country or forest holding area having a system in place for managing forest carbon 
stocks and sequestration and/or reporting GHG emissions and CO2 sequestration from 
land use including forestry and agriculture.  
Two potential issues arise if the purpose of this provision in the sustainability criteria is 
to ensure the safeguarding of land-based carbon stocks, where land management is 
evolved to supply more biomass for use as energy. 
First of all, the purpose of accounting for GHG emissions and CO2 sequestration 
associated with the LULUCF sector is to ensure that countries participating in 
international agreements on climate action (such as the UNFCCC and the Paris 
agreement) account fully and transparently for emissions and/or sequestration in that 
sector, including any contribution from land management towards meeting national 
commitments to net GHG emissions reductions. The accounting system is intended to 
give incentives to these countries to pursue the management of land-based carbon 
stocks and sequestration in such a way as to avoid increasing net emissions and/or to 
enhance CO2 sequestration. It follows that LULUCF accounting in this context operates at 
the scale of nations: it does not provide a framework of incentives for individual actors 
(e.g. the actual producers and consumers of biomass for use as energy or for other 
applications). Effectively, countries or groups of countries have to create a separate 
complementary framework to encourage individual actors to make the right choices 
when producing and consuming biomass, to ensure that biomass utilisation generally 
leads to net savings in GHG emissions, rather than increases. However, in the context of 
the EU, the relevant frameworks are the existing RED and proposed REDII and the 
potential issues with these have already been discussed above. At most, relying on 
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
56    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
LULUCF accounting would ensure the impacts of biomass use on GHG emissions were 
registered (either by the country producing the biomass or by the consuming country); it 
would not explicitly support actions towards the desired outcome of GHG emissions 
savings. 
The second potential issue concerns the specific approaches taken to accounting, i.e. the 
methods used to calculate accounted emissions increases or reductions associated with 
impacts of land management on land-based carbon stocks and sequestration. This 
subject could warrant an entire report in its own right but the essential points are 
outlined below. 
Essentially the approach taken to accounting for emissions and CO2 sequestration 
associated with the vegetation and soils of cropland and grassland is consistent with the 
approach used when accounting for burning fossil fuels. Taking the example of cropland 
in an individual country, the accounting approach involves the following steps: 
• Calculate the total annual net emissions and sequestration associated with cropland in 
a historical base year or base period, say for a base year of 1990 or 2005 (call this the 
“base-year result”) 
• Calculate the total annual net emissions and sequestration associated with cropland 
on average during an accounting period, say 2013 to 2020 or 2021 to 2025 (call this 
the “accounting-period result”) 
• The accounted GHG emissions or sequestration are calculated as the difference 
between the accounting-period result and the base-year result. 
In principle, this accounting approach for cropland and grassland should work, provided 
that: 
• Changes over time in emissions and sequestration associated with cropland and 
grassland occur mainly as a result of the management of these lands (rather than for 
unrelated reasons, such as natural processes of carbon accumulation in soil) 
• Systems for calculating and reporting emissions and removals associated with 
cropland and grassland are capable of registering the effects of the management of 
these lands. For example, if the removal of straw from cropland leads to net losses of 
carbon from the soil or a reduction in sequestration, the methods for calculating and 
reporting emissions and removals need to be sophisticated enough to enable these 
losses to be reflected in the reported results. 
In practice, systems for calculating the emissions and removals of cropland and 
grassland can only fully reflect the effects of management if suitably advanced models of 
land management and land-based carbon dynamics are applied, or if comprehensive 
direct monitoring of cropland and grassland is carried out. National-scale monitoring 
systems are also needed to track how the management of land may be changing over 
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
57    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
time, for example as part of activities to increase production of biomass for use as 
energy. Currently, many countries do not have sufficiently developed monitoring and/or 
modelling systems to meet these requirements. 
6.3.1. Forest biomass 
A special approach is taken to accounting for emissions and CO2 sequestration 
associated with forest land. The reason for this is the high likelihood of needing to 
separate out the influence of natural processes (e.g. age-related trends in tree growth) 
from the effects of management on net emissions and removals. In its purest form, the 
accounting approach involves the following steps: 
• Where non-forest land has been actively converted to forest land or where 
deforestation has occurred in the recent past (e.g. within 20 years), a country needs 
to report the total annual emissions or sequestration associated with the land during 
the accounting period (say 2021 to 2025) 
• For all other forest land, make a projection of the total annual net emissions or 
sequestration associated with the forest land during a future accounting period, say 
2012 to 2025 (call this the “reference result”) 
• When constructing the above projection, assume that the ways in which forests are 
managed from the current time up until the end of the accounting period are not 
changed, when compared with recent historical patterns of forest management (e.g. 
levels of thinning in forests and rotations applied to forest stands) 
• During the actual accounting period, calculate the total annual net emissions and 
sequestration associated with the forest land (call this the “accounting-period result”) 
• The accounted GHG emissions or sequestration are calculated as the difference 
between the accounting-period result and the reference result. 
The assumption is made that the accounting-period result and the reference result 
should be the same or very similar, in the case when actual forest management has not 
changed or evolved from the current time up to and during the accounting period. 
Hence, if historical forest management practices in a country are continued during the 
accounting period, then the country does not need to declare a net debit (emission), 
neither can the country claim a net credit (sequestration) as a result of the management 
of existing forest land. 
If activities occur in the country aimed at improving forest carbon stocks and 
sequestration, then the country should be able to claim a net credit (sequestration), 
equal to the difference between the accounting-period result and the reference result. 
If activities occur in the country that lead to reductions in forest carbon stocks and rates 
of sequestration, then the country may need to declare a net debit (emission), equal to 
the difference between the accounting-period result and the reference result. 
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
58    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
The above description captures the essential approach to accounting for emissions and 
removals associated with forest land. However, typically, the detailed accounting 
approaches for forest land agreed amongst countries as part of international climate 
action are more complicated than outlined above. 
The accounting approach for forest land as outlined above is complex but in principle it 
should support efforts by countries to maintain or strengthen forest carbon stocks and 
sequestration, or to account for impacts on carbon stocks and sequestration as a result 
of changes in forest management, for example as a result of a significantly increased 
requirement for forest biomass utilized for energy. However, the practical issues raised 
with regard to accounting methods for agricultural land also apply here. 
The accounting approach also relies heavily on an objective method for constructing the 
projection of emissions and removals from forest land forming the basis of the reference 
result. The method requires a clear understanding of what is involved in “existing” forest 
management practices within a country, and how these should be allowed for when 
making the projection. The EC Joint Research Centre has produced some preliminary 
guidance on this subject but it is not yet clear that a general consensus has been 
reached on the approach to be taken. This is important because, if countries take a wide 
interpretation of the approach to the estimation of the reference result, then there could 
be risks that significant net emissions arising from forest management (including for 
example from harvesting wood for bioenergy) may not be accounted for. It is particularly 
important that the future effects of relatively recent and potential future policies are not 
allowed for when defining the representation of forest management practices. For 
example, suppose that a country developed a policy to greatly increase the level of wood 
production from its forests, which would require associated changes to forest 
management. If the country were to claim that the consequent evolution of forest 
management was part of “current” practice, and then allow for this when calculating the 
reference result, the consequent impacts of the policy on emissions and removals 
associated with forest land would not be accounted for. It follows that it is particularly 
important for this accounting approach for forest land to be clearly defined, generally 
understood by countries and stakeholders, and for its application to be based on 
transparent data and assumptions about forest management. 
7. Discussion 
Inevitably, there are limits to the analysis, assessment and interpretation of the results 
of any particular study, to arrive at specific conclusions, depending on the question(s) 
asked.  The analysis and assessment presented in this summary report and the original 
final project report, and the conclusions arrived at, most likely represent the full extent 
of the inferences that may be drawn from this project about the GHG emissions impacts 
associated with bioenergy use. 
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
59    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
If a cautious position were to be taken, the project findings lead to the following 
tentative conclusion: 
Unless appropriate policy measures are taken to support sustainable bioenergy supply 
(in terms of impacts on GHG emissions), particularly in the case of forest bioenergy 
supply, a significant increase in bioenergy use in the EU is likely to lead to a net 
increase, rather than decrease, in GHG emissions being contributed from bioenergy 
sources. 
Whilst such a conclusion is reasonable based on the project findings, it should be 
clarified that, strictly, the results should not be interpreted to imply that the increased 
use of bioenergy in the EU must inevitably involve increased GHG emissions. Rather, the 
results strongly indicate that there are significant risks of increases in GHG emissions 
associated with greater bioenergy use, in particular forest bioenergy use, unless there 
are appropriate checks and balances on the supply and consumption of bioenergy 
sources with regard to associated GHG emissions.  Hence, the corollary of this conclusion 
is that: 
If specific measures are taken to ensure only sustainable bioenergy (in terms of impacts 
on GHG emissions) is incentivized, a net decrease, rather than increase, in GHG 
emissions is likely to be associated with bioenergy sources. 
The view might be taken that whether one places emphasis on the tentative conclusion 
for bioenergy use or its corollary is analogous to asking whether a glass is half empty or 
half full, implying that this matter almost comes down to individual viewpoints.  
However, this view would be entirely incorrect, because the assessments in this project, 
including this summary, have indicated the outcomes that are likely to occur, in the 
absence or presence of suitable measures to ensure the supply of bioenergy (particularly 
forest bioenergy) with low associated GHG emissions.  This suggests the need to address 
sustainability in the supply of bioenergy resources, as discussed in Section 6 of this 
report. 
The validity of the conclusions reached about implications for regulation of bioenergy use 
and the assessment of the proposed REDII presented in Section 6 hinges on whether the 
findings of the Task 1 report and the final report for this project are sufficiently 
comprehensive and reliable.  It must be acknowledged that, although a considerable 
body of research now exists on the GHG impacts of bioenergy sources, there are still 
some gaps in knowledge and areas where understanding still needs to be clarified. 
However, it is suggested that there is now enough scientific evidence to draw some 
conclusions on the management of risks with regard to the use of bioenergy sources and 
consequent impacts on GHG emissions.  The authors of this report offer the general 
criteria set out in Section 6.1, and specifically for forest bioenergy sources in Table 6.1, 
as their best attempt to interpret current evidence and understanding. 
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
60    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
Every effort has been made to keep the approach outlined in Section 6.1 as simple as 
possible. The approach may be viewed as complicated and problematic to implement in 
practice, for a number of reasons: 
• It may prove to be very challenging for the final consumers of biomass sources to 
know and demonstrate clear connections to particular management activities on 
agricultural or forest land.  This would be important for providing assurance that the 
production of certain bioenergy sources will deliver genuine emissions reductions 
compared to fossil fuels. However, for forest bioenergy sources, this is addressed to 
an extent in Table 6.1 (Section 6.1) by structuring the criteria and making some of 
them optional.  It should be recalled that the designs of the decision tree and table of 
criteria presented in Section 6.1 are provisional.  The criteria included in Table 6.1 do 
not necessarily represent a comprehensive or definitive list and there may be scope 
for further refinement. 
• There appear to be difficulties in regulating forest bioenergy sources purely on the 
basis of wood feedstock types (which the structuring of the criteria in Table 6.1 
attempts to address).  It has proved difficult to arrive at widely understood definitions 
for certain feedstocks. Such definitions have been provided in Box 1 in Section 4.2.2, 
but some of these may still be regarded as ambiguous (e.g. “sawlog” and, through 
reference to this definition, “small roundwood”). 
• Some of the proposed criteria still require a calculation methodology for GHG 
emissions impacts (and savings) associated with the use of different types of 
bioenergy but this has not been defined here.  Section 6.1 discusses the possibility of 
requiring full GHG emissions assessments for bioenergy sources but this may place a 
very heavy burden on consumers/operators or prove impractical.  Hence, it is likely 
that a simplified approach is still needed, for example involving the exclusion of high 
risk feedstocks, whilst supporting the desired policy outcomes identified by CLCA of 
policy options, such as undertaken in this project.  
• Ideally, the findings of the quantitative assessment presented in the final project 
report and in this summary could be used to design and construct a refined or 
optimized scenario for biomass consumption from different sources, by determining 
building blocks based on picking the best aspects and avoiding the worst aspects of 
the scenarios modelled in this project. In addition, further CLCA could be undertaken 
at a more detailed scale to clarify further the variations in GHG impacts with respect 
to specific forest management practices, types of biomass feedstock and biomass 
energy value chains. 
Undoubtedly, the developers of the original RED and the proposed REDII were very 
aware of issues and pitfalls such as those listed above, and particularly of the need for 
any proposal to be simple enough to be practical to implement.  The question, as 
regards the REDII, is whether some balance can be found between the need for 
simplicity and practicality in regulation on the one hand, as addressed in the existing 
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
61    |    ECF biomass carbon impacts    |    Matthews et al.    |    May 2018 
proposal for REDII, and the need for robustness (in terms of delivering GHG emissions 
reductions) on the other hand, as covered in the discussion in Section 6.1 of this report.
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
 
 
 
Biomass carbon impacts 
 
 
 
 
 
