 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MILLBROOK POWER 
PROJECT 
Millbrook, 
Bedfordshire 
S47 CONSULTATION PLAN 
September 2014 
www.millbrookpower.co.uk   
 
 
 
 
 
July 2014                                                  1 
 
MILLBROOK POWER PROJECT 
 
S47 LOCAL COMMUNITY CONSULTATION PLAN, 
 
 
 
INTRODUCTION 
Millbrook Power Limited (“MPL”) proposes to develop a gas-fired power generation 
plant and connections to the electricity and gas networks on land located in Rookery 
South Pit, near the villages of Stewartby, Lidlington, Millbrook and Marston Mortaine 
in Bedfordshire. 
 
The proposed power generation plant would have a rated electrical output of up to 299 
MW of electricity. Using the latest and most efficient power generating technology, it 
will burn natural gas to generate electricity that is delivered into the National Grid. Due 
to its size, the Millbrook Power project would be a Nationally Significant Infrastructure 
Project and as such it would require a Development Consent Order (DCO).  
 
STATUTORY REQUIREMENTS  
The community consultation described is carried out under section 47 of the Planning 
Act 2008; the Act sets out requirements for formal pre-application consultation for 
those applications that are considered by the Planning Inspectorate on behalf of the 
relevant Secretary of State.   
 
Section 47(1) of the Planning Act 2008 states that the applicant must prepare a 
statement setting out how it proposes to consult those people, who are living in the 
vicinity of all or part of the land to which the proposed application relates, about the 
proposed application. 
  
Furthermore,  MPL is required to consult Central Bedfordshire Council (CBC) and 
Bedford Borough Council (BBC) on its proposed  Statement of Community 
Consultation ("SoCC").  Once MPL has finalised its SoCC, it is required to make the 
same available to the public in a way that is reasonably convenient and must also 
publish a notice in the local press as to where and when the SoCC can be inspected. 
This plan sets out how Millbrook Power Limited intends to meet these s47 consultation 
requirements. This plan is not itself required pursuant to the Planning Act 2008.  
 
1.0 PURPOSE 
a. This document explains how MPL intends to consult people living and working in 
the vicinity of the proposed up to 299 MW gas-fired power station, its integral gas 
and electrical connections and other related infrastructure (the “Project”) on land 
located in and adjacent to Rookery South Pit. The land is situated in the Marston 
Vale between Milton Keynes and Bedford, approximately 3 km north of Ampthill, a 
local market town, and 7 km south west of Bedford in Central Bedfordshire and 
Bedford Borough. 
 
 
July 2014                                                  2 
 
 
b. The Project’s infrastructure that is integral to the power generation plant includes 
a new purpose built access road, a gas pipeline connection and a new electrical 
connection that will facilitate the export of power to the National Grid for distribution 
to homes and businesses.   
 
c. MPL has been established by Watt Power Limited to develop the Project at 
Rookery South Pit.  Watt Power is seeking to develop flexible gas fired power 
generation assets at three further sites in the UK to support the UK Government’s 
drive towards a low carbon economy: one at Eye Airfield in Suffolk, one near 
Aberdare in south Wales and the third near Felindre, also in south Wales. 
 
d. Stag Energy provides the resources to MPL through a management services 
agreement with Watt Power. Stag Energy was founded in 2002 and the company 
draws on a depth of experience with a team that has created and delivered over 
10,000 MW of power generation and related infrastructure projects across the 
globe, of which, 2,500 MW has been delivered in the UK. 
 
e. The details of the consultation methodology set out in this document aim to explain 
how MPL will satisfy the community consultation requirements for an application 
for a DCO under the Planning Act 2008 which, if granted, would enable the Project 
to be constructed and operated.  MPL intends to submit an application for a DCO 
which will be examined by the Planning Inspectorate on behalf of the Secretary of 
State for Energy & Climate Change (SoS). It should be noted that the application 
will be accompanied by an Environmental Statement as the development is 
considered to be an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) Development. A 
Preliminary Environmental Information Report (PEIR) will be produced which will 
describe the preliminary assessment as to the likely significant environmental 
effects of the proposed Power Generation Plant and its associated infrastructure. 
The PEIR is expected to be published and made available for public scrutiny and 
consultation in the autumn of this year. 
 
 
 
 
July 2014                                                  3 
 
f. As part of the DCO application, MPL is required to produce a Consultation Report 
explaining how the three strands of consultation required under the Planning Act 
2008 (s421, s47 and s482) have been complied with.  MPL intends that its 
Consultation Report will include an explanation of how the relevant local authorities 
were consulted about the content of the SoCC and what the local authorities’ 
comments were.  The Consultation Report will demonstrate that the local 
authorities were given sufficient time to provide comments, explain how MPL had 
regard to those comments and provide evidence that the SoCC was made 
available and notified in the correct manner.  
 
g. The Consultation Report will also explain what activities were undertaken to enable 
consultation with the local community, how those consulted responded and how 
MPL had regard to representations received in the development of the Project and 
the DCO application, prior to its submission to the SoS.  
 
h. This document does not set out how MPL intends to undertake the other strands 
of statutory consultation required by Sections 42 and 48 of the Planning Act 2008. 
 
 
2.0 THE PROPOSED SITE 
 
a. The site for the proposed Power Generation Plant (which comprises part of the 
Project) is located on land located within Rookery South Pit, a former clay pit and 
designated as Rookery Clay Pits County Wildlife Site (CWS). The site is adjacent 
to the proposed Covanta Energy from Waste project, which has been consented 
but has not yet been constructed.  
 
a. The site is located mostly within the local authority administrative area of Central 
Bedfordshire Council and in part within the administrative area of Bedford Borough 
Council. The proposed routes of the electrical and gas connections would be 
located in farmland to the south and/or east of Rookery South Pit within Central 
                                         
1 Section 42 of the Planning Act 2008 requires consultation with certain local authorities, listed statutory consultees and those 
with an interest in the land on which the proposed Project will be built and operated or who may be particularly affected by it 
2 Section 48 sets out publicity requirements on a national basis 
 
 
July 2014                                                  4 
 
Bedfordshire, whilst part of the proposed access route, subject to consultation, 
environmental and technical studies, resides within the administrative area of 
Bedford Borough Council. 
 
 
 
 
3.0 THE PROJECT 
 
The Project would comprise: 
 A new Power Generation Plant in the form of a Simple Cycle Gas Turbine 
(SCGT) gas fired peaking power generating station fuelled by natural gas and 
with a rated electrical output of between 50 and 299 Megawatts (MW) 
comprising: 
o The Generating Equipment including the Gas Turbine Generators and 
balance of plant, which are located within the Generating Equipment 
Site; 
o A new purpose built Access Road from Green Lane to the Generating 
Equipment Site; and 
o During construction a temporary construction compound (the Laydown 
Area). 
 A new Gas Connection to bring natural gas to the Generating Equipment from 
the National Transmission System (NTS) which is located within the Gas 
Connection Opportunity Area; and 
 A new Electrical Connection to export power from the Generating Equipment to 
the National Grid Electricity Transmission System (NETS) for distribution to 
homes and businesses which is located within the Electrical Connection 
Opportunity Area. 
 
The Generating Equipment, Access Road and Laydown Area are together known as 
the Power Generation Plant, and are located within the Power Generation Plant Site. 
 
The Power Generation Plant, Gas Connection, and Electrical Connection, are all 
integral to the generation of electricity and together are referred to as the ‘Project’. The 
 
 
July 2014                                                  5 
 
land upon which the Project would be developed, or which would be required in order 
to facilitate the development of the Project, is referred to as the ‘Project Site’.  
 
4.0 CONSULTATION BACKGROUND 
 
a. MPL is committed to open and responsive consultation with local communities and 
interested parties.  The programme recommended within this document sets out a 
framework for a formal and inclusive consultation process.  
 
b. The draft SoCC appended to this document is designed to meet the legal 
requirements set out in section 47 of the Planning Act 2008 and follows a range of 
advice and guidance set out by the Planning Inspectorate and the Department for 
Communities & Local Government.  The consultation process is designed to 
enable informed, detailed and two-way communication. Through this process, 
relevant matters identified during consultation will be taken into account during the 
development of the proposal and before submission of the application for a DCO. 
 
c. Since May 2014, MPL has proactively communicated its intentions with elected 
representatives and directly within the local community, in order to introduce and 
discuss aspects of the Project.  These non-statutory information activities and other 
forthcoming initiatives will also be captured in the Consultation Report. On the 5th, 
6th and 7th of June a series of non-statutory public exhibitions were held in the 
villages of Lidlington, Marston Moretaine and Stewartby. The choice of location for 
these and future events was decided upon after initial consultation with members 
of CBC and BBC. 
 
 
4.1 CONSULTATION AREAS 
 
a. MPL proposes to carry out its consultation in two areas: a core consultation zone 
(CCZ) that equates to an approximate 5 km radius from the site of the Power 
Generation Plant (see map overleaf), and an outer consultation zone (OCZ) that 
equates to a radius of 10 km.  The CCZ is defined by parish council boundaries 
closest to the 5 km radius. These consultation zones were chosen following 
 
 
July 2014                                                  6 
 
feedback from various elected representatives with whom MPL has been liaising 
and would be in accordance with those used by Covanta for the Rookery South 
Energy from Waste Generating Station, even though the impact of the Project is 
expected to be considerably less than that of the Covanta scheme.  
  
 
b. The CCZ has been designed to include the main population areas in the vicinity of 
the Power Generation Plant Site that have the potential to be impacted by the 
Project’s construction and operation and expected to have the greatest interest in 
the Project. These include the villages of Stewartby, Marston Moretaine, Ampthill 
and Millbrook, as well as other settlements within the CCZ.  Whilst a 5 km buffer 
has been used as a guide, where settlements fall only partially within this area 
discretion has been exercised.  
 
 
 
 
Proposed CCZ – approx. 5 km radius from the Power Generation Plant 
Site 
 
 
July 2014                                                  7 
 
 
Proposed OCZ – 10 km radius from the Power Generation Plant Site 
 
c. Whilst the site is located directly within the CBC ward of Cranfield and Marston 
Moreteyne the following neighbouring wards also fall within the proposed CCZ: 
 
o Houghton Conquest and Haynes  
o Ampthill  
d) The proposed CCZ also includes wards within the neighbouring local authority - 
BBC. The following BBC wards fall within the CCZ: 
o Elstow and Stewartby  
o Wootton  
 
e) The CCZ would include all or parts of the following parish council areas: 
 
 
July 2014                                                  8 
 
o 
Marston Moreteyne (CBC)    
o 
Houghton Conquest (CBC) 
o 
Millbrook (CBC) 
o 
Ampthill (CBC) 
o 
Maulden (CBC) 
o 
Lidlington (CBC) 
o 
Stewartby (BBC) 
o 
Wootton  (BBC) 
 
    The CCZ will be MPL’s primary focus of activity when consulting about its plans.  
 
f) Communities in the OCZ will be informed about the Project (via newspaper 
advertisements, posters, media coverage and contact with parish councils and 
other relevant local organisations in the OCZ) and will have the opportunity to 
comment on the plans.  The OCZ includes the main population area of Bedford. 
MPL does not anticipate that the communities and businesses that lie within the 
OCZ will be significantly impacted by the Project’s construction and operation 
although MPL recognises that they may be interested in it.  
 
g) Communities outside the OCZ will be informed about the Project as the circulation 
areas and reach of the media (TV, radio, printed media) that will be used to 
communicate details of the Project and the consultation activities are far greater 
than the boundaries of the OCZ. 
 
 
5.0 INTRODUCTORY 
INFORMATION 
PERIOD/NON-STATUTORY 
CONSULTATION 
 
As an introduction to the Project, MPL undertook an introductory information 
programme and non-statutory consultation exercise in May/June 2014. This included:  
 
a. Discussions with officers and councillors at CBC and BBC about our plans and 
proposed non-statutory consultation plans, including exhibition venues and 
organisations that should be invited. 
 
 
July 2014                                                  9 
 
 
b. As every home and business in the CCZ is represented by both a CBC councillor 
or a BBC councillor, and a Parish councillor, MPL communicated its plans (and 
information regarding the public exhibitions that were held between June 5th – 7th 
2014) to the CBC and BBC, as well as the local MP Nadine Dorries, and Richard 
Fuller MP (whose constituency partially falls within the CCZ).  MPL met Nadine 
Dorries MP on June 25th to discuss the Project and answer her questions. 
 
c. As part of the non-statutory consultation, a Project website was launched to 
coincide with the Project being introduced to the local community. The website 
(www.millbrookpower.co.uk) provides information on the Project and enables 
people to ask questions and provide feedback to MPL about the Project.   
 
d. As part of the non-statutory consultation, a letter of introduction about the Project 
was sent to approximately 10,000 households and businesses within a 5 km radius 
of the site (i.e an area very closely aligned with the CCZ). The letter contained 
details about the Project and an invitation to attend information exhibitions near the 
Project site. The letter was sent and distributed by Royal Mail a week prior to the 
first exhibition date. 
 
e. As part of the non-statutory consultation, exhibitions were held at the following 
locations to give local people the maximum opportunity to attend:  
 
 
o Thursday, June 5th - Lidlington Village Hall (4.00pm till 7.30pm) 
o Friday, June 6th - Stewartby Village Hall (3.00pm till 7.00pm) 
o Saturday, June 7th - Marston Moreteyne Village Hall (10.00am till 1.00pm) 
 
f. 
Exhibition locations were chosen because they were considered convenient to 
those communities within the CCZ that surrounds the proposed Power Generation 
Plant Site These events featured relevant information that was known at the time 
in a variety of formats (display panels, maps, plans, leaflet etc) about the proposal.  
Members of the MPL project team were available to discuss the proposal, answer 
questions and to receive feedback from members of the public. Feedback as to 
 
 
July 2014                                                  10 
 
whether MPL should do anything differently during the statutory consultation 
process was sought during the informal information period/non-statutory 
consultation about the Project. 
 
g. MPL used venues that met Disability Discrimination Act 1995 requirements and 
upon a reasonable and timely request had provisions in place for those with 
special requirements who were unable to attend or access a consultation event 
(for example, private transport to the exhibition event).  
 
h. More than 250 people attended the exhibitions, including local councillors.  The 
local media (print, TV, radio and social media) published news reports about the 
exhibitions in advance of them being held as well as afterwards.  
 
i. 
MPL issued press releases before and after the exhibitions were held, and these 
were posted on the MPL website.  The press releases were issued to the local 
media including parish council newsletters, and news reports were published in 
the media as a result of receiving them from MPL.  
 
j. 
MPL advertised the informal information/non-statutory consultation exhibitions via 
a display advertisement in the Bedfordshire on Sunday newspaper, published on 
June 1st2014.  
 
k. A leaflet about the Project was produced for people who attended the exhibition, 
and additional copies were provided to local councilors and others for wider 
dissemination. The leaflet contained details of the Project, the consultation 
process, an indicative timeframe for the Project’s development and the Millbrook 
Power website address and contact details.  In addition, a Feedback form was 
available for people to fill in on the day or to return via Freepost to MPL.  
 
l. 
Posters advertising the non-statutory consultation events were displayed on 
parish noticeboards and other community venues within the CCZ, for example 
local libraries, local shops and post offices and doctors’ surgeries. 
 
 
 
July 2014                                                  11 
 
m. The MPL website carries the latest information about the project (technical, 
environmental and communications), contact details and a mechanism to enable 
people to ask questions and provide feedback.  The website address was provided 
to CBC, BBC and parish councils for inclusion on parish websites, newsletters and 
other local information material. 
 
n. MPL will consider the provision, upon request, of written materials about the 
Project in different formats (for example, large print or braille). 
 
o. Comments and queries via telephone (as well as via post, email or fax) were 
accepted following the launch of the non-statutory period of consultation.  
 
p. In summary, the Project has been introduced to the local community which is now 
broadly aware of the Project.  The proposed statutory consultation process detailed 
in section 6.0 will therefore build upon this awareness with a view to gaining formal 
feedback from local people and interested stakeholders before the application for 
the DCO is submitted in 2015. 
 
6.0 STATUTORY CONSULTATION METHODOLOGY & ACCESSIBILITY 
Following the introductory information period/non-statutory consultation described in 
section 5.0, the statutory consultation programme will be conducted according to the 
following methodology: 
 
a. MPL will consult with officers at CBC and BBC on the content of the draft SoCC. 
 
b. MPL will begin engagement with elected members of CBC, BBC, parish councils, 
the local MP Nadine Dorries and Richard Fuller MP whose constituency lies within 
the CCZ, as it develops its plans. 
 
c. MPL will use elected members of CBC, BBC and parish councils as communication 
channels, via meetings and correspondence, to share information and seek 
community feedback during the period of statutory consultation.   
 
d. Exhibitions/consultation events will be held at the following locations: 
 
 
July 2014                                                  12 
 
 
• 
Lidlington Village Hall  
• 
Stewartby Village Hall  
• 
Marston Moretaine Village Hall  
• 
Ampthill Masonic Centre, Ampthill 
After consideration of the outcomes of the non-statutory consultation process these 
venues are considered the most convenient to those communities within the CCZ 
that surround the proposed Power Generation Plant Site. These events will feature 
relevant information in a variety of formats (display panels, plans, leaflet etc) about 
the proposal and copies of the Preliminary Environmental Information Report 
(PEIR) will be made available.  Members of the MPL project team will be available 
to discuss the proposal, answer questions and to receive feedback from members 
of the public. 
 
e. In order to ensure that people have the maximum opportunity to attend the 
exhibitions, MPL will arrange for them to be held at the above convenient locations 
and at a variety of times. An event will be held on a Saturday for those unable to 
visit during the working week. 
 
f. MPL will use venues that meet Disability Discrimination Act 1995 requirements and 
upon a reasonable and timely request will make provision for those with special 
requirements who are unable to attend or access a consultation event (for 
example, private transport to a consultation event).  
 
g. In consultation with CBC and BBC, MPL will share information about the Project 
with those “hard to reach groups” living and working within the CCZ. These groups 
are likely to be accessed through informal and formal channels - via council 
services (for example, Central Bedfordshire Together, Bedford Borough 
Partnership, and others) and relevant specialist organisations (for example the 
Marston Moreteyne Action Group, local branches of the Women’s Institute, and 
local business representative groups such as the Bedfordshire Chamber of 
Commerce).   
 
 
 
July 2014                                                  13 
 
h. Posters in colleges, schools, youth clubs and awareness through social media may 
be used to reach the younger members of the community, whilst consideration will 
be given to presentations at local schools and colleges about the Project. Local 
schools and colleges will be notified of the consultation events. 
 
i. MPL will advertise the consultation events via local and regional newspapers 
(Bedfordshire on Sunday, Bedford Borough Times & Citizen), for two weeks prior 
to the first event taking place.  In addition MPL will announce via the issue of one 
or more press releases to parish, local and regional news publications, the local 
radio and TV stations (and via online media) that the events are taking place.  The 
newspaper advertisements (and media coverage), will reach the CCZ, the OCZ 
and further afield. The content will give information on MPL’s proposals and details 
of the consultation events, including contact information.   
 
j. A leaflet or letter about the Project and the consultation programme will be 
distributed to households, businesses and institutions in the CCZ some two weeks 
in advance of the first consultation event, informing them of the consultation events 
taking place. The leaflet will include details of the Project, the location and dates of 
the consultation events, the MPL website address, and a comments/questions card 
that can be returned Freepost.    
 
k. Posters advertising the consultation events will be displayed on parish 
noticeboards and other community venues within the CCZ and the OCZ, for 
example local libraries, local shops and post offices, local schools and colleges 
and doctors’ surgeries. 
 
l. MPL will inform those parish councils within the OCZ about the Project and the 
exhibition/consultation event via email. 
 
m. The MPL team will proactively and reactively meet with individuals and interested 
groups in the local area as part of the formal consultation period to answer 
questions and provide updates about the Project.  
 
 
 
July 2014                                                  14 
 
n. The MPL website will carry the latest information about the Project (technical, 
environmental and communications), contact details and a mechanism to enable 
people to ask questions and provide feedback.  The website address has 
previously been provided to CBC, BBC and parish councils for inclusion on parish 
websites, newsletters and in other local information material. 
 
o. Comments and queries via telephone (as well as via post, email or fax) will be 
considered and addressed where possible, as well as comments noted.  The 
statutory consultation will last for a period of 35 days . Relevant responses will be 
collated, had regard to and referred to in the Consultation Report that will 
accompany the DCO application.   
 
p. MPL may choose to undertake additional consultation and information activities. In 
addition, MPL will consider the provision, upon request, of written materials about 
the Project in different formats (for example, large print or braille). 
 
q. Statutory and non-statutory consultation activities and efforts will be detailed in the 
Consultation Report which will accompany the DCO application. This will detail the 
consultation activities, the feedback received and MPL’s response to the issues 
that are raised during the process. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
