Voting ID
Task ID
Shareholder Reference No.
Form of Proxy – Drax Group plc
+
+
+
+
Attendance card for the Annual General Meeting
As you arrive at the roundabout for the Museum of London, look for the circular 
artwork in the window and go through the revolving doors to reception.
The 2023 Annual General Meeting of Drax Group plc is to be held at 12.30pm on 
Wednesday 26 April 2023 at etc.venues St Paul’s, 200 Aldersgate, London EC1A 4HD.
Please detach and retain this attendance card and bring it with you if you come along to 
the Annual General Meeting to show as evidence of your right to be admitted.
Please bring with you a driving licence or passport or other form of photo ID. If you do not 
have your attendance card, you may be asked to provide two forms of identity (which may 
require photo identity and verification of your address). If you have been appointed as 
proxy for a shareholder entitled to vote, please let the admission staff know. You should 
bring proof of identity with you and you will be asked to confirm the details of the 
shareholder you are representing.
Do not post this section with the Form of Proxy.
Shareholder reference number:
Signature of person attending:
Please refer to the notes on the attached page and the explanatory notes in the accompanying Notice of Annual 
General Meeting before completing this form.
I/We hereby appoint the Chair of the Annual General Meeting or
Name of proxy 
Number of shares proxy is appointed over
as my/our proxy to exercise all or any of my/our rights to attend, speak and vote in respect of my/our ordinary shares 
on my/our behalf at the Annual General Meeting of Drax Group plc to be held at 12.30pm on Wednesday 26 April 2023 
and at any adjournment thereof. I appoint my/our proxy to attend, speak and vote in the manner indicated below.
Please tick here if this proxy appointment is one of multiple appointments being made: 
 (see Note 2).
You may register the appointment of a proxy electronically by logging onto www.sharevote.co.uk and using the 
reference numbers above or, if you have previously registered with the Company’s registrar’s online portfolio service 
Shareview, you can register the appointment at www.shareview.co.uk.
 
 
 
Vote 
Resolutions 
For  
Against 
Withheld
1 To receive the Annual Report and Accounts. 
 
 
2 To approve the annual statement to shareholders by the Chair of the Remuneration  
 
Committee and the Annual Report on Remuneration. 
 
 
3 To approve the Directors’ Remuneration Policy. 
 
 
4 To approve the final dividend. 
 
 
5 To re-elect Philip Cox as a Director of the Company. 
 
 
6 To re-elect Will Gardiner as a Director of the Company. 
 
 
7 To re-elect Andy Skelton as a Director of the Company. 
 
 
8 To re-elect David Nussbaum as a Director of the Company. 
 
 
9 To re-elect Erika Peterman as a Director of the Company. 
 
 
10 To re-elect John Baxter as a Director of the Company. 
 
 
11 To re-elect Kim Keating as a Director of the Company. 
 
 
12 To re-elect Nicola Hodson as a Director of the Company. 
 
 
13 To re-elect Vanessa Simms as a Director of the Company. 
 
 
14 To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditor. 
 
 
15 Authority for the Directors to determine the auditor’s remuneration. 
 
 
16 Authority to make political donations to specified limits. 
 
 
17 Authority to allot shares. 
 
 
18 Authority to make non pre-emptive share allotments.* 
 
 
19 Additional disapplication of pre-emption rights.* 
 
 
20 Authority to purchase own shares.* 
 
 
21 Authority to call a General Meeting on not less than 14 days’ notice.* 
 
 
* Special resolution
Signature 
Date
 
SHAREHOLDERS ARE ENCOURAGED TO SUBMIT THEIR PROXY VOTING INSTRUCTIONS  
IN ADVANCE OF THE MEETING
Aldersgate St
Little Britain
London Wall
Noble St
Oat Lane
R
o
t
u
n
d
a
Museum 
of London
Pret A Manger
Ironmongers’ Hall
Plaisterers’ Hall
Postman’s Park
etc.venues St Paul’s
200 Aldersgate
Notes
1 
Only holders of ordinary shares, or their duly appointed 
representatives, are entitled to vote at the meeting. 
A shareholder so entitled may appoint (a) proxy(ies), 
who need not be (a) shareholder(s), to exercise all or any 
of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf 
at the meeting. Unless otherwise instructed, the person 
appointed as proxy will exercise their discretion as to how 
they vote or whether they withhold a vote on any particular 
resolution and on any other business (including amendments 
to resolutions and any procedural business), which may come 
before the Annual General Meeting (AGM).
2 
You can appoint the Chair of the AGM or anyone else to be 
your proxy at the AGM. You can also, if you wish, appoint 
more than one proxy provided that each proxy is appointed 
to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares 
held by you.
• 
To appoint the Chair as your sole proxy in respect of all 
your ordinary shares, complete any voting instructions but 
leave all other proxy appointment details blank.
• 
To appoint a single proxy in respect of all your ordinary 
shares other than the Chair, delete only the words “the 
Chair of the Annual General Meeting” and insert the name 
of your proxy (who need not be a shareholder of the 
Company) and complete any voting instructions.
• 
To appoint more than one proxy, (an) additional Form(s) 
of Proxy may be obtained by contacting the registrar 
or you may photocopy the Form of Proxy. Please indicate 
in the box next to the proxy holder’s name, the number 
of shares in relation to which you authorise them to act 
as your proxy and complete any voting instructions. 
Please also indicate by ticking the box provided on the 
Form of Proxy if the proxy instruction is one of multiple 
instructions being given. All Forms of Proxy should 
be returned together in the same envelope.
 
If the box next to the proxy holder’s name is left blank, your 
proxy will be deemed to be authorised in respect of all your 
ordinary shares.
3 
The Form of Proxy gives your proxy full rights to attend, 
speak and vote at the AGM.
4 
Please indicate with an “X” in the boxes provided how you 
wish your vote to be cast. Unless otherwise instructed, the 
person appointed as proxy will exercise their discretion as to 
how they vote or whether they abstain from voting on any 
particular resolution and on any other business (including 
amendments to resolutions and any procedural business), 
which may come before the AGM.
5 
The ‘Vote withheld’ boxes are provided to enable you to 
abstain from voting on any particular resolution. You should 
note, however, that a ‘Vote withheld’ is not a vote in law and 
will not be counted in determining the proportion of votes 
cast ‘For’ and ‘Against’ a resolution on a poll.
6 
Paper Forms of Proxy must be received at Equiniti Limited, 
Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA, 
not later than 48 hours before the AGM to be effective 
(i.e. before 12.30pm on Monday 24 April 2023). If the Form 
of Proxy is signed by someone else on your behalf, his or her 
authority to sign must be returned with the Form of Proxy. 
In the case of a corporation, the appointment of a proxy 
must be executed either under its common seal or by a 
duly authorised officer or agent. In the case of joint holders, 
any holder may sign. The vote of a more senior joint holder 
on the register of members (Register) will be accepted to the 
exclusion of a junior joint holder. For this purpose, the order 
in which the names of the joint holders are recorded in the 
Register will determine seniority.
 
Alternatively, Electronic Proxy Appointment (EPA) 
is available for the AGM. To use this facility, you must visit 
www. sharevote.co.uk where details of the procedure are 
shown. The Voting ID, Task ID and Shareholder Reference 
Number shown on the Form of Proxy will be required to 
complete the procedure. EPA will not be valid if received after 
12.30pm on Monday 24 April 2023 and will not be accepted 
if found to contain a computer virus.
7 
Only those shareholders registered on the Register at 6.30pm 
on Monday 24 April 2023 (or, in the event of any adjournment, 
6.30pm on the date which is two days before the time of the 
reconvened adjourned meeting) shall be entitled to vote 
at the AGM in respect of the number of shares registered 
in their respective names at that time. Changes to entries 
on the Register after the relevant deadline shall be disregarded 
in determining the rights of any person voting at the AGM. 
Full details of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM, with 
explanatory notes, are set out in the enclosed Notice of AGM.
8 
Information on voting electronically via the internet or through 
CREST is contained in the notes to the Notice of AGM.
9 
Any alterations to this Form of Proxy should be initialed.
Further information about the AGM
If you would like to view the meeting electronically, please follow 
the instructions on pages 16 and 17 of the Notice of Meeting. 
You will require the following details:
Meeting ID: 110-637-161
Username: Shareholder Reference Number (SRN)
PIN: First and last two digits of your SRN
To watch and listen to the presentation and submit questions 
in writing, you will need to log in to the meeting via the website 
https://web.lumiagm.com. You will need the Meeting ID, 
your Username and PIN.
If you have appointed a proxy or corporate representative 
they will need their own SRN and PIN which can be obtained 
by contacting the Company’s registrar before 12:30pm on Monday 
24 April 2023 on 0371 384 2030 or +44 121 415 7047 if you are 
calling from outside the UK.
