 
 
 
The Abergelli Power Gas Fired Generating Station 
Order 
 
10.3 Statement of Proposed Heads of Terms for an 
Agreement Pursuant to s106 of the TCPA 1990 
 
Planning Act 2008 
The Infrastructure Planning  
(Applications: Prescribed Forms and Procedure) Regulations 2009 
 
PINS Reference Number:  
 
EN010069 
Document Reference: 
 
 
10.3 
Regulation Number: 
 
 
5(2)(q) 
Author: 
 
 
 
 
Abergelli Power Limited 
 
Revision 
 
Date  
 
Description  
 
0 
 
 
May 2018  
 
Submission Version  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
1.
INTRODUCTION
1.1 
1.2 
1.3 
1.4 
1.5 
1.6 
Abergelli Power Limited (APL) is proposing to develop an Open 
Cycle Gas Turbine with a generating capacity of up to 299 MW 
station located on open agricultural land approximately 2 km north of 
Junction 46 on the M4, approximately 3 km to the north of the city of 
Swansea, approximately 1 km southeast of Felindre and 1.4 km 
north of Llangyfelach (the "Project"). 
This Statement of proposed Heads of Terms for an agreement pursuant 
to s106 Town and Country Planning Act 1990 accompanies an 
application for a Development Consent Order ("DCO") for the Project. 
The Project will generate over 50 MW of electricity and, as such, is a 
nationally significant infrastructure project as defined in the Planning Act 
2008 (sections 14(1)(a) and 15). In accordance with the Planning Act 
2008, the DCO application for the Project (the "Application") will be 
submitted to Secretary of State, who will appoint an Examining Authority 
to examine the application prior to the determination of the Application by 
the Secretary of State. 
This Statement of proposed Heads of Terms for an agreement pursuant 
to s106 Town and Country Planning Act 1990 accompanies the 
Application. 
The Project would be located within the administrative boundary of the 
City and County of Swansea Council ("CCS"). CCS is closely liaising with 
APL on mitigation for the impacts of the Project, and considers that in 
order to make the scheme acceptable in planning terms, development 
consent obligations should be secured within an agreement pursuant to 
s106 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 ("s106 Agreement") 
(as amended by the Planning Act 2008). 
[Following discussion with CCS, agreement over the majority of the 
proposed Heads of Terms has been reached, however,] the s106 
Agreement is not in an agreed form. As such, APL has set out below its 
proposed position on all proposed Heads of Terms and it will continue to 
liaise with CCS following submission of its Application, in order to come 
to an agreed position as soon as is possible. 
2.
APL'S 
PROPOSED 
POSITION 
REGARDING 
AREAS
FOR 
MITIGATION BY WAY OF DEVELOPMENT CONSENT OBLIGATION 
2.1 
To undertake agreed measures for socio-economic and educational 
improvements within the vicinity of the Project. 
PROPOSED OBLIGATIONS 
 
2 
3. 
EDUCATION OPPORTUNITIES 
3.1 
Prior to commencement of construction, to deliver an education scheme 
(the "Education Scheme") to CCS for approval. The Scheme shall set 
out: 
3.1.1 
A proposed programme of visits to schools located within 
Swansea to be made by APL for a period of five years from the 
commencement of construction, such visits to be used to explain 
the Project and how such a facility fits within the provision of 
energy for the United Kingdom. 
3.2 
The Education Scheme shall be implemented by APL. 
4. 
LOCAL SERVICE PROVIDERS DURING CONSTRUCTION AND 
OPERATION 
4.1 
Prior to commencement of construction, to deliver a local service provider 
engagement scheme (the "Local Services Scheme") to CCS for 
approval. The Local Services Scheme shall set out: 
4.1.1 
The measures that APL will take in order to ensure that 
opportunities for local organisations to bid for contracts during 
the construction period of the Project are advertised locally 
(including APL notifying CCS at the commencement of the 
procurement process for construction of the Project in order to 
allow CCS to advertise opportunities via any brokerage scheme 
that they may run); 
4.1.2 
The measures that APL will take in order to ensure that 
opportunities for local organisations to bid for contracts during 
the operational period of the Project (for example for 
maintenance, cleaning or security services) are advertised 
locally (including APL notifying CCS at the commencement of the 
procurement process for operation of the Project in order to allow 
CCS to advertise opportunities via any brokerage scheme that 
they may run); 
4.1.3 
The anticipated number of local supplier days that will be hosted 
by APL prior to and during construction of the Project. 
4.2 
The Local Services Scheme shall be implemented by APL. 
 
