 
 
Chancellor of the Exchequer 
HM Treasury 
The Correspondence & Enquiry unit 
1 Horse Guards Road 
London 
SW1A 2HQ 
27th February 2020 
Dear Chancellor, 
RE: Zero Carbon Humber 
We are writing to you as a group of MPs with constituencies in the Humber Estuary. As you know, the 
Conservative Party manifesto pledged to invest £800 million to build the first fully deployed Carbon Capture 
and Storage (CCS) cluster by the mid-2020s.  We would like to encourage you to consider allocating this 
funding to the development of CCS Transport and Storage infrastructure in the area of the UK where it could 
have the biggest impact on both the environment and economy, while putting the UK in pole position in the 
race to decarbonise industry: the Humber cluster. 
The Humber area is home to Britain’s largest industrial economy, employing 55,000 skilled workers and 
contributing £18bn towards UK GDP. It is an economy rooted in critical industries like refining, 
petrochemicals and manufacturing.  But it is an economy that is also under threat. The high concentration of 
heavy industry means it is the UK’s most carbon intensive region. If businesses across the Humber fail to 
decarbonise, based on central HM Treasury forecasts, they could face carbon taxes of up to £2.9bn a year by 
2040 – putting their future at risk.  
With the application of CCS technology, we can protect jobs critical to the Humber region. It can also 
become the first net zero carbon industrial cluster in the world. In doing so, it would take a significant step in 
the fight against climate change and reclaim its rightful position on the world stage as a major global centre 
of industry and innovation. 
The challenge now is that the deployment of CCS must be scaled up dramatically and at an accelerated pace 
to deliver decarbonisation within the required timeframes. This cannot happen without first developing the 
CCS Transport and Storage (T&S) network. Other countries have accelerated their development plans in CCS 
through government policies that take a more strategic and pragmatic approach.  
 
As indicated in the Delivering Clean Growth: CCS Cost Challenge Taskforce Report in July 2018: ‘To meet the 
timescales of CCS clusters being operational from the mid-2020s, projects may have to be initiated using 
funding mechanisms.’ The Taskforce recommended that carefully targeted development funding is made 
available to support CCS T&S infrastructure. 
 
 
 
 
Several businesses, industry groups and representatives from civil society are already behind this vision to 
decarbonise the Humber. The emitters in Humber wish to capture emissions but will be unable to do so unless 
T&S infrastructure is available. In 2019, the Zero Carbon Humber partnership, including National  
Grid as a leading developer of CCS T&S, was established by a group of energy organisations committed to 
transforming the region. The delivery of CCS T&S infrastructure in the Humber has the potential to service a 
much wider geography and more diverse sectors (heavy industry, power, transport).  
Ahead of your budget in March, we hope you will consider the benefits of developing CCS T&S infrastructure 
in the Humber cluster.  With your support, we can give Humber the chance to act as a catalyst for a net zero 
transformation across the North of England, helping Britain maintain its status as a world leader in low 
carbon technologies and achieve clean growth. Together, we can make this vision happen.   
We look forward to hearing from you. 
Yours Sincerely 
Dame Diana Johnson MP 
 
 
Emma Hardy MP 
 
Karl Turner MP  
 
 
 
Sir Greg Knight MP 
 
Holly Mumby-Croft MP  
 
 
Andrew Percy MP 
 
Martin Vickers MP 
 
