 
 
 
 
 
 
Dear Shareholder, 
Drax Group plc – Annual General Meeting Arrangements in response to COVID19 
On Wednesday 18 March 2020, Drax posted the notice (‘Notice’) of its annual general meeting 
(‘AGM’) to be held at 11:30am on Wednesday 22 April 2020 at Grocer’s Hall, Princes Street, 
London, EC2R 8AD (‘Grocer’s Hall’). 
On Monday 23 March 2020, the UK Government announced mandatory measures concerning 
social distancing to reduce the transmission risks of Covid19. These measures require people 
to stay at home other than for limited purposes and stop all gatherings of more than two people 
in public. As a result, it is now prohibited for the Company to hold its AGM in the normal way. 
Revised arrangements 
The Company has been advised by Grocer’s Hall that the venue is presently closed. Given 
the prevailing restrictions, the Company has decided to make alternative arrangements in 
order to ensure the AGM can lawfully be held to consider the business as set out in the Notice. 
Arrangements have been made by the Company to hold the AGM at an alternative venue and 
to ensure that the required quorum will attend the meeting, whilst also complying with the UK 
Government’s mandatory measures.  The new venue for the AGM will be 8–10, The Lakes, 
Northampton, NN4 7YD. 
Voting Details 
Shareholders are encouraged to submit their votes in respect of the business to be conducted 
at the AGM.  
As physical attendance at the AGM is prohibited, holders of ordinary shares who wish to 
register their votes on the resolutions to be put to the AGM should do so by completing and 
signing the proxy form that accompanied the 2020 AGM Notice (or appoint a proxy 
electronically if their shares are held in CREST) in accordance with the instructions printed on 
the proxy form. Please ensure that your proxy form appoints the chair of the meeting as proxy, 
since no other proxies will be allowed to attend the meeting in person.  
As an alternative to completing the hard-copy Proxy Form, you can appoint a proxy 
electronically by visiting www.sharevote.co.uk. You will need your Voting ID, Task ID and 
Shareholder Reference Number (this is the series of numbers printed on your Proxy Form). 
Alternatively, if you have already registered with Company’s registrar’s online portfolio 
service, Shareview, you can submit your Proxy Form at www.shareview.co.uk using your 
usual user ID and password. Full instructions are given on both websites. As mentioned 
above, please ensure that your proxy form appoints the chair of the meeting as proxy, since 
no other proxies will be allowed to attend the meeting in person. 
 
Please return your forms as soon as possible and in any event prior to 11:30am on Monday 
20 April 2020, (being not less than 48 hours before the time of the meeting).   
For Share Incentive Plan (SIP) participants, a Form of Direction should be sent to the Trustee, 
Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited, at Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West 
Sussex BN99 6DA to arrive by no later than 11:30am on Friday 17 April 2020. 
If you do not have a proxy form or a Form of Direction and believe that you should have one, 
or if you require additional forms or have any additional queries on voting, please contact our 
registrar using the details set out below:  
Equiniti Limited, (‘Equiniti’) Proxy Department, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West 
Sussex BN99 6DA. 
Enquiries can also be made to Equiniti using their telephone helpline service on 0371 384 
2030 from within the UK or +44 121 415 7047 from outside the UK. Lines are open from 
8:30am to 5:30pm, Monday to Friday – excluding public holidays in England and Wales. 
The Board believes the actions being taken in these exceptional circumstances are necessary 
in order to comply with the measures introduced to safeguard the wellbeing and health of 
everyone, including our shareholders, employees and members of the wider community, 
which has to be our first priority. 
Shareholder Engagement 
As outlined in our annual report we continually undertake engagement with Company 
stakeholders through various means. We are sorry that we cannot meet at the AGM, which 
routinely is one such important aspect of enabling discussions with shareholders. If 
shareholders have any questions about Drax Group plc, please contact us using the details 
which we maintain on our website via the link https://www.drax.com/investors/investor-
contacts/.  
Yours sincerely, 
 
B N Gladden 
Group Company Secretary 
 
