 
 
 
 
The Progress Power  
(Gas Fired Power Station) Order 
 
Outline Lighting Strategy 
 
Planning Act 2008 
The Infrastructure Planning (Applications: Prescribed Forms and Procedure) Regulations 2009 
 
PINS Reference Number:  
 
EN010060 
Regulation Number: 
 
 
5(2)(o) 
Author: 
 
 
 
 
Parsons Brinckerhoff 
 
Revision 
 
Date  
 
Description  
 
0 
 
 
December 2014 
Examination version (Deadline 6: in response to discussions  
 
 
 
 
 
 
between the parties) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
 
 
1. 
Progress Power Lighting Design Principles 
 
1.1 Lighting objectives to minimise the adverse effect of artificial lighting during 
construction are set out in the Outline CEMP. Details of lighting during construction 
will be set out in the final CEMP to be submitted for the approval of the local 
planning authority under DCO Requirement 11 (k) (Construction Environment 
Management Plan).  
 
1.2 Details of permanent lighting will be submitted for the approval of the local planning 
authority under DCO Requirement 18 (Control of artificial light emissions during 
operational phase). Lighting will be designed to limit obtrusive light to sensitive 
receptors surrounding the Project Site whilst considering national, regional and 
local planning policies. Sensitive receptors include residents of nearby 
settlements, in particular Yaxley and Eye, and key ecological corridors. 
 
1.3 External lighting will be required at the Power Generation Plant for internal roads, 
pedestrian walkways, car parks, security and for buildings to meet operational 
requirements. It will be pole mounted, generally 6m high. Internal lighting will be 
required within buildings for occupational and operational requirements. 
 
1.4 The need for external lighting within the Above Ground Installation and Electrical 
Connection Compounds will be infrequent.  Infra-red floodlighting and CCTV 
systems will be used for security purposes. Lighting will however be required within 
buildings, though appropriate measures to reduce light spill will be included. 
External lighting  will only be required for routine and unplanned maintenance 
activity  
 
1.5 Lighting within the Electrical Connection Compound will be pole mounted, and will 
be generally 6m high within the Substation Compound and 4m high within the 
Sealing End Compound. Pole mounted lighting of a similar height will be provided 
within the Above Ground Installation. 
 
1.6 The general design principles that will be used to minimise the impact on key 
lighting receptors and to meet environmental requirements are: 
 
 
To design for optimal light levels which provide enough illumination to 
safely undertake operational activities while limiting their impact on 
sensitive receptors; 
 
To locate significant sources of lighting away from sensitive 
landscape and ecological receptors; 
 
2 
 
 
To include full horizontal cut-off luminaires to prevent upward light 
with shields and baffles that can be directed downwards rather than 
horizontally to limit light pollution onto sensitive areas; 
 
To use columns of a minimum height. When lighting large areas 
preference would be given to several lower units rather than tall wide 
beam lighting units to limit light trespass, glare and sky glow;  
 
To use controls to avoid unnecessary illumination and to ensure 
efficient luminaires are used; 
 
To use automated devices to switch lights on and off according to 
activity and ambient levels and 
 
To direct light to the area where it is needed to avoid reflectance from 
buildings and structures and to avoid illuminating building facades.  
1.7 The written scheme for the management and mitigation of artificial light emissions 
to be submitted under DCO Requirement 18 will take into consideration the 
receptors and general design principles described above. The Lighting Scheme 
will contain:  
 
 
Details of the timing of the lighting requirements.  
 
A polar luminance diagram based on the vertical luminance at the 
height of the windows (on the facing façade) of the nearest sensitive 
residential properties or a 0-lux contour line (showing the surrounding 
area up to this contour line). 
 
A diagram to demonstrate that lighting proposals reasonably minimise 
the adverse landscape and ecological impacts of the proposed 
lighting scheme  
1.8 The Lighting Scheme will have regard to the following guidance:  
 
 
The Institution of lighting engineers (now the Institute of Lighting 
Professionals) document ‘Guidance notes for the Reduction of 
Obtrusive Light’ particularly the objective to keep glare to a minimum 
by ensuring that the main beam of all lights directed towards any 
potential observer is not more than 70°. This is available to download 
from https://www.theilp.org.uk/documents/obtrusive-light/..  
