 
 
 
The Abergelli Power Gas Fired Generating Station 
Order 
 
3.2 Explanatory Memorandum 
 
Planning Act 2008 
The Infrastructure Planning  
(Applications: Prescribed Forms and Procedure) Regulations 2009 
 
PINS Reference Number:  
 
EN010069 
Document Reference: 
 
 
3.2 
Regulation Number: 
 
 
5(2)(c)  
Author: 
 
 
 
 
Pinsent Masons LLP 
 
Revision 
 
Date  
 
Description  
 
0 
 
 
May 2018  
 
Submission Version  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
95357990.1\KJ13 
1 
 
ABERGELLI POWER LIMITED 
 
THE ABERGELLI POWER GAS FIRED GENERATING STATION ORDER 201* 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM 
 
 
 
 
 
Introduction 
 
1. 
This explanatory memorandum has been prepared to explain the purpose and effect of the provisions 
of the draft Abergelli Power Gas Fired Generating Station Order 201* ("the Order"), in accordance 
with regulation 5(2)(c) Infrastructure Planning (Applications: Prescribed Forms and Procedure)  
Regulations  2009. This document should be read alongside the Order and the various documents 
submitted in respect of this application for the Order. 
2. 
This memorandum also seeks to identify and explain departures from the Infrastructure Planning 
(Model Provisions) (England and Wales) Order 2009 ("the model provisions"). Whilst the power for 
the Secretary of State to designate, and the requirement to have regard to, model provisions have 
been removed by the Localism Act 2011, the Planning Inspectorate Advice Note 13 (Preparation of a 
draft order granting development consent and explanatory memorandum, April 2012) notes (at page 
4) that the Planning Inspectorate finds it helpful to receive a 'track change' version of the draft 
development consent order, showing the departures from the model provisions. This explanatory 
memorandum therefore also notes variations from the model provisions. The 'track change' version of 
the Order compared to the model provisions can be found at Appendix 1 to this document. 
The Purpose of the Order 
3. 
Abergelli Power Limited ("APL") has made an application pursuant to the Planning Act 2008 to the 
Secretary of State for a development consent order for the construction, operation and maintenance 
of the Abergelli Power gas fired generating station (referred to in the Order as "the authorised 
development"). 
4. 
The authorised development comprises an onshore electricity generating station in Wales with a 
capacity of over 50MW and therefore it constitutes a nationally significant infrastructure project 
("NSIP") under section 15(2) of the Planning Act 2008. Accordingly, it requires development consent 
under section 31 of the Planning Act 2008. Development consent may only be granted by order 
following an application to the Secretary of State under section 37 of the Planning Act 2008. 
5. 
In accordance with sections 120(3) and 122 of and Schedule 5 to the Planning Act 2008, the Order 
would, in addition to providing for the construction operation and maintenance of the authorised 
development, authorise the acquisition of land and rights over land, and the extinguishment or 
suspension of, or interference with, interests in or rights over land. The Book of Reference (Document 
Reference 4.3) sets out what land is to be acquired and what other rights and interests will be 
affected. The Order and the Book of Reference should be read together with the Statement of 
Reasons (Document Reference 4.1) which accompanies the application and which sets out the 
justification for the acquisition or interference with each relevant plot of land. The plots of land are 
shown on the Land Plans (Document Reference 2.2). 
6. 
The matters for which development consent is sought under the Order can be summarised as follows: 
In the City and County of Swansea: 
6.1 
The Power Generation Plant comprises: 
 
95357990.1\KJ13 
2 
6.1.1 
a new Power Generation Plant in the form of an open cycle gas turbine (OCGT) peaking 
power generation station fuelled by natural gas with a rated electrical output of up to 299 
MWe. This is the output of the generating station as a whole, measured at the terminals of 
the generating equipment, The Power Generation Plant comprises: 
(a) 
generating equipment including one Gas Turbine Generator with one exhaust gas 
flue stack and Balance of Plant (the "Generating Equipment") which are located 
within the Generating Equipment Site (numbered works 1A to 1F (inclusive) in 
Schedule 1 to the Order); 
(b) 
an access road (the “Access Road”) running from B4489 to the Generating 
Equipment Site (numbered work 2 in Schedule 1 to the Order); 
(c) 
a temporary construction compound (numbered work 3 in Schedule 1 to the Order) 
required during construction only (the ‘Laydown Area’);  
(d) 
an ecological mitigation area (numbered work 4 in Schedule 1 to the Order); and 
(e) 
earthworks (required for the Generating Equipment and the Access Road) 
(numbered work 5 in Schedule 1 to the Order). 
7. 
A further, more detailed, description of the various elements of the authorised development is 
provided in Schedule 1 to the Order (and the  corresponding section of this Explanatory Memorandum 
below) and in Section 3 of the Environmental Statement (Document Reference 6.1) which 
accompanies this application. 
8. 
The Power Generation Plant (including the Access Road, the Laydown Area and the earthworks) form 
an integral part of the nationally significant infrastructure project.  
Associated development 
 
9. 
Pursuant to section 115 of the 2008 Act, as the NSIP development is a generating station in Wales 
with a generating capacity of less than 350MW, development consent can be granted for the NSIP but 
not for associated development.   Therefore, whilst the project will require a gas connection and an 
electrical connection in addition to the Power Generation Plant described above, development 
consent is not sought for these elements.  
The Provisions of the Order 
 
10. 
As the Order seeks to apply and modify statutory provisions, including those relating to the 
compulsory acquisition of land, the Order has been drafted as a statutory instrument, in accordance 
with sections 117 and 120 of the Planning Act 2008. 
11. 
The Order consists of 44 operative provisions, each referred to as articles, and 12 Schedules. 
Parts 1 (Preliminary) and 2 (Principal Powers) 
 
12. 
Articles 1 (Citation and Commencement) and 2 (Interpretation) are preliminary provisions. Article 1 
provides for the way in which the Order should be cited and when it takes effect. Article 2 provides for 
the interpretation of the rest of the Order, including the Schedules. Article 2 makes alterations to the 
model provisions to accommodate the departures from the model provisions elsewhere in the Order, 
and to add required definitions that are relevant in the context of the authorised development. 
13. 
Article 2 defines 'commencement' to exclude investigations for the purpose of assessing ground 
conditions (including investigations necessary for the discharge of requirements 14 (site 
investigation), 15 (mineral resources survey) and 16 (peat management plan)) receipt and erection of 
construction plant and equipment, erection of any temporary means of enclosure, the temporary 
display of site notices or advertisements.  APL considers it appropriate to allow for the early  
completion  of  this  work  (without  triggering  the  requirements  set  out in Schedule 2 of the Order)  
14. 
As there are no ancillary works included in the Order the authorised development is referred to as 
such throughout the Order and the concept within the model provisions of an "authorised project" has 
 
95357990.1\KJ13 
3 
not been used in the Order (there are however, "ancillary matters" as defined in section 120(4) of the 
Planning Act 2008 including compulsory purchase powers).  
15. 
Article 2 defines 'Order limits' as the limits shown on the works plans. Article 2 defines ‘Order land’ as 
land required for, or is required to facilitate, or is incidental to, or is affected by, the authorised 
development shown on the land plans and described in the book of reference. The Order land does 
not include all of the Order limits as compulsory acquisition powers and powers of temporary use are 
not being sought over part of the B4489. 
16. 
The Order land and the Order limits are different as the Order limits relate to the area within which the 
authorised development will take place, whilst the Order land includes the land and rights required to 
facilitate the NSIP (including for the Gas Connection and Electrical Connection). This is the approach 
that was adopted for the Hirwaun Generating Station Order 2015 and the Wrexham Gas Fired 
Generating Station Order 2017. 
17. 
Article 3(1) (Development consent etc. granted by the Order) grants development consent for the 
authorised development. Schedule 1 describes the authorised development in detail, split into 
numbered works, each of which represents a different part of the authorised development. Article 3(2) 
requires that the works authorised by the Order are situated within the areas shown on the Works 
Plans (Document Reference 2.3). This is in order to provide certainty as to what has been consented 
by the Order. Article 3(3) permits construction within limits of deviation which are also specified on the 
works plans. Requirement 2 provides for maximum and minimum parameters for certain key elements 
of the project. This approach, whilst going beyond the model provisions (model provision article 2), 
reflects a standard approach used in orders made under the Transport and Works Act 1992 and in 
recent development consent orders, including for example, the Progress Power (Gas Fired Power 
Station) Order 2015 and is appropriate in the current Order as it serves to precisely define the 
authorised development by reference to the plans, whilst preserving a sensible amount of flexibility in 
the implementation of the authorised development to allow for slight variances in ground conditions 
and choice of appropriate equipment and technology. The Environmental Statement (Document 
Reference 6.1) accompanying the DCO Application has assessed the authorised development within 
the full envelope provided by the limits of deviation. 
18. 
Article 4 (Maintenance of authorised development) provides for the maintenance of the authorised 
development. Article 4(1) closely reflects the terms of the model provisions (model provision article 3).  
Article 4(2) restricts maintenance to the Order limits in order to provide a defined parameter within 
which this power can be exercised. A definition of "maintain" has been included so that it is clear what 
the term involves. The Environmental Statement (Document Reference 6.1) accompanying the DCO 
Application has assessed maintenance as defined in the Order. 
19. 
Article 5 (Operation of authorised development) permits the operation and use of the generating 
station comprised in the authorised development and is included pursuant to section 140 of the 
Planning Act 2008. Article 5(2) specifically preserves the need for any other operational consent that 
may be needed for the Power Generation Plant in addition to the Order. 
20. 
Article 6 (1) (Benefit of the Order) makes clear that it is only the undertaker who may take the benefit 
of the Order. This drafting follows the model provision (model provision article 4).  The "undertaker" is 
defined in Article 2 as APL, as promoter of the scheme, and anyone who has the benefit of the Order 
pursuant to Articles 6 and 7. This definition follows the definition of undertaker in the Wrexham Gas 
Fired Generating Station Order 2017. 
21. 
Article 7 (Consent to transfer benefit of the Order) makes detailed provision for the transfer of the 
benefit of the Order and supplements Article 6(1). Under Article 7(4) the consent of the Secretary of 
State is needed before the undertaker can transfer the benefit of the Order but such consent is not 
required where (i) the transferee or lessee is the holder of a licence under section 6 of the Electricity 
Act 1989 or section 7 of the Gas Act 1986; or (ii) where the compensation provisions for the 
acquisition of rights or interests in land or for effects on land have been discharged or are no longer 
relevant. The justification for these provisions is that in such cases, the transferee or lessee will either 
be of a similar financial and regulatory standing to APL so as to protect the provision for 
compensation for rights or interests in land that are compulsorily acquired pursuant to the Order, or 
there are no outstanding actual or potential compulsory purchase claims. Article 7(5) provides that 
where the consent of the Secretary of State is not needed, the undertaker must still notify the 
Secretary of State in writing prior to the transfer or grant of the benefit of the provisions of the Order. 
Articles 7(6) to (8) provide further detail on the notification that is to be given. This is based on the 
 
95357990.1\KJ13 
4 
notification procedure contained in Article 7 of the Wrexham Gas Fired Generating Station Order 
2017.Article 7(2) has been amended from the model provisions so that it refers to 'transfer, or grant', 
which is considered to be more accurate than 'agreement'. 
Part 3 (Streets) 
 
22. 
Article 8 (Power to alter layout etc. of streets) allows the undertaker to alter the layout of a street or 
carry out any works in the street as are set out in Schedule 3 in the manner specified in Schedule 3. 
Article 8(2) allows for the alteration of the layout of any street within the Order land for the purposes of 
construction, operation or maintenance, subject to obtaining the consent of the street authority and to 
the restoration of such streets to the reasonable satisfaction of the street authority. Similar wording 
has been used in other made Orders, including the National Grid (North London Reinforcement 
Project) Order 2014 and the Hirwaun Generating Station Order 2015 (see Article 8). Wording 
regarding deemed consent is included in Article 42 (see below) and Schedule 12. 
23. 
Article 9 (Street works) is a model provision intended to permit in certain streets (as specified in 
Schedule 4) the carrying out of street works for the purposes of the authorised development. Article 
9(3) brings in sections 54 to 106 of the New Roads and Street Works Act 1991 to apply to any street 
works carried out pursuant to Article 9(1). This provides protection for the street authority for the street 
in question. 
24. 
Article 10 (Construction and maintenance of new or altered means of access) provides that new or 
altered means of access are to be constructed to the reasonable satisfaction of the street authority 
and maintained at the expense of the undertaker for a year. Any part of the new or altered means of 
access which are proposed to be public highway (as set out on the Rights of Way, Streets and 
Access Plan submitted with the undertakers' application for the Order (Document Reference 2.4)) will 
then be maintained by the highways authority. Those parts of the new or altered means of access 
which are not intended to be public highway (such as private accesses which the undertaker is 
altering or creating and as also set out in the Rights of Way, Streets and Access Plan) will then be 
maintained by the street authority. Paragraphs (5) and (6) mirror the defence in section 58 of the 
Highways Act 1980 where the undertaker is subject to an action for damages and has taken such 
care as was reasonably required in the circumstances to secure that the street was not dangerous to 
traffic. 
25. 
Article 11 (Temporary prohibition or restriction of use of streets) is slightly refined from the model 
provision and provides for the temporary alteration, diversion and prohibition or restriction on the use 
of streets for the purposes of carrying out the authorised development. Reference to temporary 
prohibition or restriction of use is a reference to the temporary control of how traffic and non-
motorised users (including pedestrians) may use and pass along the streets in question. As per the 
model provision, this applies generally, and also applies specifically to certain streets which are set 
out in Schedule 6 to the Order. Article 11(2) confers a power on the undertaker, where the use of a 
street has been temporarily prohibited or restricted under the power in Article 11, to use such a street 
as a temporary working site. There are consultation requirements before this power can be exercised, 
in the case of any streets not specified in Schedule 6 the undertaker would need to secure the 
consent of the street authority prior to prohibiting or restricting use and compensation may be payable 
in respect of the loss or suspension of private rights of way. Similar wording has been used in other 
made Orders, including Article 11 of the Wrexham Gas Fired Generating Station Order 2017, Article 
12 of the Meaford Gas Fired Generating Station Order 2016, Article 12 of Progress Power (Gas Fired 
Power Station) Order 2015 and Article 11 of the Hirwaun Generating Station Order 2015. 
26. 
Article 12 (Stopping up of streets) is drawn from a model provision (model provision article 9) and 
permits the undertaker to stop up the streets specified in Schedule 7. 
27. 
Article 13 (Access to works) is a model provision (model provision article 12) which permits the 
undertaker to form new or to improve existing means of access in the locations specified in Parts 1 
and 2 of Schedule 3. For clarity, temporary and permanent means of access are dealt with separately. 
Other means of access or works can also be provided in other locations reasonably required for the 
authorised development with the approval of the relevant planning authority in consultation with the 
highway authority. 
28. 
Article 14 (Agreements with street authorities) is a model provision (model provision article 13) which 
authorises street authorities and the undertaker to enter into agreements relating to the construction 
of a street or the carrying out of works in the street and the alteration and diversion of the street. In 
 
95357990.1\KJ13 
5 
addition to the model provisions, it provides for such agreements to deal with the strengthening, 
improvement or repair of any streets, which is common in many similar orders. Similar wording has 
been used in other made Orders, including the Hirwaun Generating Station Order 2015, the Progress 
Power (Gas Fired Power Station) Order 2015 and the Wrexham Gas Fired Generating Station Order 
2017. 
29. 
Article 15 (Traffic regulation) allows, with the consent of the traffic authority, the undertaker to regulate 
traffic on roads (defined as a public highway maintained by and at the expense of the traffic authority) 
to the extent that is necessary for the purposes of or in connection with the construction of the 
authorised development. The Article gives effect to any prohibition, restriction or other provision made 
by the undertaker as if it was made by the traffic authority or local authority in whose area the road is 
situated. The Article is not in the general model provisions but there is a precedent for it in the 
Wrexham Gas Fired Generating Station Order 2017 (Article 14), which referred in its Explanatory 
Memorandum to its use in other made orders (including Article 37 of the Network Rail (Hitchin 
(Cambridge Junction)) Order 2011 and Article 38 of the Network Rail (Norton Bridge Areas 
Improvements) Order 2014). It is considered necessary to ensure that the authorised development 
can be constructed without unnecessary delay.  
Part 4 (Supplemental Powers) 
 
30. 
Article 16 (Discharge of water) is a model provision (model provision article 14) which enables the 
undertaker to discharge water into any watercourse, public sewer or drain in connection with the 
construction and maintenance of the authorised development with the approval of the owner of the 
watercourse, public sewer or drain (such approval not to be unreasonably withheld) and subject to 
certain other conditions. The reference from the model provisions to section 85 of the Water 
Resources Act 1991 has been deleted as this section has now been repealed and has been replaced 
with a reference to the Environmental Permitting (England and Wales) Regulations 2016 instead.  The 
effect of article16 is that discharge can only be done with the consent of the owner, but consent 
cannot be withheld unreasonably.  This article is therefore consistent with the provisions of section 
146 of the Planning Act 2008. 
31. 
Article 17 (Authority to survey and investigate the land) is based on the model provision (model 
provision article 16) which allows the undertaker to survey and/or investigate land including bringing 
equipment onto the land and making trial holes. The power is subject to a number of conditions 
including a requirement for 14 days' notice to be given and is subject to the payment of 
compensation. The power extends to land "which may be affected by the authorised development" as 
surveys may need to be undertaken on such land to monitor the impacts of the authorised 
development (for example noise monitoring at residential receptors). The Article applies section 13 of 
the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965 (refusal to give possession to acquiring authority) thereby 
providing an enforcement mechanism (by way of a warrant) where entry onto land under the article is 
refused. This is considered necessary so that there is no delay in the implementation of the 
authorised development. There is a precedent for the wording included at Article 17(6) in the recently 
made Silvertown Tunnel Order 2018.   
32. 
Article 18 (Removal of human remains) is a model provision (model provision article 17) which 
provides for the removal of human remains from the Order land and for their reburial in such burial 
ground or cemetery in which burials may legally take place as the undertaker thinks suitable for the 
purpose or for their treatment according to the wishes of any personal representatives or relatives 
who come forward following the giving of the necessary notices. This article has been included as 
APL has not been able to rule out the presence of any human remains within the Order land and is 
considered necessary so that there is no delay in the implementation of the authorised development. 
Part 5 (Powers of Acquisition) 
 
33. 
Article 19 (Compulsory acquisition of land) provides for the compulsory acquisition of such land as is 
required for the authorised development (or to facilitate the authorised development or is incidental to 
the authorised development). The Article broadly follows the model provision (model provision article 
18), but reference to compensation for the extinguishment or suspension of a private right of way has 
been deleted as this is dealt with in Article 24 (Private rights). A similar approach was taken in the 
Wrexham Gas Fired Generating Station Order 2017. 
 
95357990.1\KJ13 
6 
34. 
Article 20 (Compulsory acquisition of land – incorporation of the mineral code) is a model provision 
(model provision article 19)  which incorporates Parts 2 and 3 of Schedule 2 of the Acquisition of Land 
Act 1981 (minerals). 
35. 
Article 21 (Statutory authority to override easements and other rights) provides that by virtue of 
section 158 of the 2008 Act in carrying out or using the development authorised by the Order and 
doing anything else authorised by the Order, the undertaker may interfere with any easement, liberty, 
privilege, right or advantage annexed to land and affecting other land, including any natural right to 
support, or breach any restriction as to use of land arising by virtue of contract. It also provides that by 
virtue of section 152 of the 2008 Act, compensation may be payable under section 10 of the 
Compulsory Purchase Act 1965 for any such interference or breach. This is not a model provision, but 
is added to clarify the position with regard to rights burdening land required for the authorised 
development. It has precedent, for example, in the Wrexham Gas Fired Generating Station Order 
2017. 
36. 
Article 22 (Time limit for exercise of authority to acquire land compulsorily) is a model provision which 
imposes a time limit of 5 years for the exercise of powers of compulsory acquisition. The date of the 
making of the Order has been used to align with the date from which the undertaker may exercise any 
powers of compulsory purchase that may be contained within the Order. APL considers that 5 years is 
an appropriate time limit as it is consistent with the time limit for commencing the authorised 
development set out in requirement 1 of Schedule 2 of the Order. 
37. 
Article 23 (Compulsory acquisition of rights etc.) is based on a model provision (model provision 
article 31) and entitles the undertaker to acquire rights over land which may be compulsorily acquired, 
including rights already in existence, or to create new rights or impose restrictions. The word 
"existing" has been deleted from the model provision wording in paragraph (3) in order to ensure that 
the undertaker is able to seek a lesser interference with land where this is appropriate (whether in the 
context of new or existing rights) as the authorised development is implemented. The article 
introduces Schedule 8, which amends existing compensation legislation in the case of a compulsory 
acquisition under the Order of a right by the creation of a new right or the imposition of a restriction. 
Schedule 8 does not affect the entitlement to compensation, but generally ensures that the 
compensation code applies to the compulsory acquisition by the creation of new rights and the 
imposition of restrictive covenants. The article also provides for the transfer of the power to acquire 
new rights to a statutory undertaker with the consent of the Secretary of State. This is to allow for the 
creation of easements in favour of statutory undertakers in respect of their apparatus which would not 
otherwise be possible as the undertaker does not own the dominant tenement. Wording has been 
included at paragraph (6) to make clear that legislation governing the compensation for the 
compulsory purchase of land is to apply in relation to the creation of new rights and the imposition of 
restrictions.  
38. 
Article 24 (Private rights) is based on a model provision (model provision article 32) and has the effect 
of extinguishing private rights and restrictions over land where: (1) land is subject to compulsory 
acquisition; (2) the private right is inconsistent with a right being compulsory acquired (in this case 
extinguishment will only be in so far as their continuance would be inconsistent with the exercise of 
the undertaker's right); and (3) land is owned by the undertaker. The Article also suspends private 
rights where the private right is inconsistent with a right being compulsory acquired by the undertaker 
and also suspends private rights for as long as the undertaker is in temporary possession of land 
under the Order. The Article departs from the model provision in that it relates to all rights over land, 
not just rights of way, to ensure that any other rights that may exist cannot prevent the implementation 
of the Project. The Article follows the approach in Wrexham Gas Fired Generating Station Order 
2017. Paragraph (4) limits the scope of the suspension of existing rights where temporary possession 
of land is taken pursuant to the Order.  
39. 
Article 25 (Application of the Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act 1981) is a model 
provision (model provision article 33)  that applies the vesting procedures in the Compulsory 
Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act 1981 to the exercise of powers of compulsory acquisition 
pursuant to the Order. It gives the undertaker the option to acquire land via the process set out under 
the 1981 Act, rather than the notice to treat procedure. This article has been updated to incorporate 
and reflect the changes brought about by the Housing and Planning Act 2016. These modifications 
have precedent in Schedule 14 to the High Speed Rail (London – West Midlands) Act 2017A and the 
Wrexham Gas Fired Generating Station Order 2017. 
 
95357990.1\KJ13 
7 
40. 
Article 26 (Acquisition of subsoil only) permits the undertaker to acquire only the subsoil of land which 
is to be compulsorily acquired, and gives the undertaker the ability to minimise the extent of interests 
acquired from owners. This article is appropriate in the context of cables or pipes to be laid 
underground within the order land to facilitate the authorised development, where acquisition of the 
'entire' freehold may not be required. This is a model provision (model provision article 34). 
41. 
Article 27 (Application of Part 1 of the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965) modifies the provisions of Part 
1 of the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965 as applied to the Order by section 125 of the 2008 Act. This 
provision reflects recent changes introduced by the Housing and Planning Act 2016. Paragraphs (1) 
to (3) amend the provisions of the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965 so they are consistent with the 
terms of the Order and paragraph (4) makes it clear that the notice periods introduced by the Housing 
and Planning Act 2016 do not apply to the temporary possession or use of land under articles 26 or 
27 of this Order. These modifications have broad precedent in Schedule 14 to the High Speed Rail 
(London - West Midlands) Act 2017 and the Wrexham Gas Fired Generating Station Order 2017. 
42. 
Article 28 (Rights under or over streets) is a model provision (model provision article 37) which allows 
the undertaker to enter on and appropriate interests within streets where required for the purposes of 
the authorised development without being required to acquire that land. Provision is made for the 
payment of compensation in certain circumstances (with slight refinements to the wording of the 
model provision). This refined wording has precedent in the Progress Power (Gas Fired Power 
Station) Order 2015. 
43. 
Article 29 (Temporary use of land for carrying out the authorised development) allows the land 
specified in Schedule 9 to be temporarily used for the carrying out of the authorised development. 
There are clear limits on the length of time that the undertaker can use land in this way, provisions 
around giving 14 days' notice and restoration of the land following the temporary works. Wording has 
been added to paragraph 1(a)(ii) in order to allow Article 28 to be applicable in the context of land 
which may be the subject of compulsory purchase, prior to any such compulsory purchase taking 
place. New wording has also been added to paragraphs (3) and (4) to take in to account that APL 
may, pursuant to Article 28(1)(a)(ii) temporarily use land that it may, eventually, compulsorily acquire. 
Should APL compulsorily acquire the land that it is in temporary possession of, then APL should 
remain in possession of such land. Wording has therefore been deleted in paragraph (8) to dovetail 
with the new drafting in paragraph (1). This wording closely follows that included within The Thames 
Water Utilities Limited (Thames Tideway Tunnel) Order 2014. Wording has been added at paragraph 
(9) to make clear that the Article does not preclude the creation or acquisition of new rights, imposition 
of restrictions or acquisition of rights in the subsoil of any part of the Order land. It has precedent in 
the Wrexham Gas Fired Generating Station Order 2017.  The article also disapplies the provisions of 
the Neighbourhood Planning Act 2017 insofar as they related to temporary possession of land under 
this article.  There is precedent for the disapplication of the Neighbourhood Planning Act in relation to 
the temporary possession of land for the construction of the authorised development in Article 3 of the 
Silvertown Tunnel Order 2018. 
44. 
Article 30 (Temporary use of land for maintaining the authorised development) provides for the 
temporary use of land for maintenance of the authorised development. There are clear limits on the 
length of time that the undertaker can use land in this way, provisions around giving 28 days' notice 
and restoration of the land following the temporary possession. This Article is broadly based on the  
model provision (model provision article 36) and provides for the payment of compensation for that 
temporary use of the land. The maintenance period has been adapted from the model provision to 
apply to the period 5 years beginning with the date of final commissioning as opposed to the date on 
which the project is opened for use as this is more appropriate for this type of development. Similar 
wording has been used in other made Orders for gas fired generating stations, including the Hirwaun 
Generating Station Order 2015, the Progress Power (Gas Fired Power Station) Order 2015 and the 
Wrexham Gas Fired Generating Station Order 2017. However, in order to be able to carry out the 
landscaping commitments set out in the landscaping plan, the maintenance period has been 
extended to the period in the strategy approved pursuant to Requirement 3. A similar provision was 
included in the North Wales Wind Farm Connection Order 2016.  The model provision has also been 
altered to disapply the provisions of the Neighbourhood Planning Act 2017 insofar as they related to 
temporary possession of land under this article.  There is precedent for the disapplication of the 
Neighbourhood Planning Act in relation to the temporary possession of land for maintenance in Article 
3 of the Silvertown Tunnel Order 2018. 
45. 
Article 31 (Statutory undertakers) provides for the acquisition of land belonging to statutory 
undertakers within the Order land. This includes a power to move the apparatus of those statutory 
 
95357990.1\KJ13 
8 
undertakers and to extinguish their rights. The model provision (model provision article 38) has been 
amended so as to allow for the suspension of rights of a statutory undertaker (for example where land 
is being temporarily used under the terms of the Order) rather than just extinguishment. This power is 
required over the whole of the Order land and similar wording has been used in made Orders for gas 
fired generating stations, including the Wrexham Gas Fired Generating Station Order 2017. 
46. 
Article 32 (Apparatus and rights of statutory undertakers in streets) makes provision in respect of the 
apparatus and rights of statutory undertakers in streets which are altered or diverted or where use is 
temporarily prohibited or restricted under Articles 10 or 11 or where a street is stopped up under 
Article 12. It is a model provision (model provision article 39) but has been amended in that paragraph 
(2) onwards has been deleted from the model provision to avoid duplication with the protective 
provisions contained in Schedule 11 of the Order. For example, paragraph 4 of Part 1 of Schedule 11 
deals with access to apparatus located in a street where there is a temporary prohibition or restriction 
on use under Article 11 and paragraphs 6 and 9 of Part 1 of Schedule 11 deal with the relocation of 
apparatus and payment of costs. 
47. 
Article 33 (Recovery of costs of new connections) provides that persons who have to create a new 
connection following the exercise of powers under Article 32 may recover the costs of new 
connections from the undertaker.  It is a model provision (model provision article 40). 
48. 
Article 34 (Guarantee) provides that the undertaker must not exercise powers in relation to any land 
until a guarantee, in respect of the liabilities of the undertaker to pay compensation, or an alternative 
form of security has been put in place. Similar wording has been used in made Orders for gas fired 
generating stations, including the Wrexham Gas Fired Generating Station Order 2017 
Part 6 (Operations) 
 
49. 
Article 35 (Felling or lopping of trees and removal of hedgerows) provides that the undertaker may fell 
or lop or cut back the roots of any tree or shrub within the Order land to prevent it obstructing or 
interfering with the construction, maintenance or operation of the authorised development. 
Compensation is provided for if loss or damage is caused. It is based on model provision (model 
provision article 39). Paragraph (4) introduces Schedule 10 and has been included in a departure 
from the model provisions to permit the removal of hedgerows within the Order land and to authorise 
the removal of the important hedgerows that are specified in Schedule 10 and that may be required to 
be removed for the purposes of carrying out the authorised development. It should be noted that there 
are no protected trees located within the Order land. 
Part 7 (Miscellaneous and General) 
 
50. 
Article 36 (Application of landlord and tenant law) is a model provision (model provision article 35) 
which would override landlord and tenant law so far as it would prejudice the operation of any 
agreement for leasing the whole of the authorised development or the right to operate the same or 
any agreement entered into by the undertaker for the construction, maintenance, use or operation of 
the authorised development. This provision is required to ensure that there is no impediment to the 
construction, use or maintenance of the authorised development. 
51. 
Article 37 (Operational land for the purposes of the 1990 Act) is a model provision (model provision 
article 36) which has the effect of ensuring that the land on which the authorised development is 
constructed is not excluded from being "operational land" under the Town and Country Planning Act 
1990 by the effect of section 263 of that Act. A similar provision has been included in other made 
Orders for gas fired generating stations, including the Hirwaun Generating Station Order 2015, the 
Progress Power (Gas Fired Power Station) Order 2015 and the Wrexham Gas Fired Generating 
Station Order 2017. 
52. 
Article 38 (Defence to proceedings in respect of statutory nuisance) provides that no one shall be able 
to bring statutory nuisance proceedings under the Environmental Protection Act 1990 in respect of 
noise, if the noise is created in the course of carrying out construction or maintenance of the 
authorised development and for which notice has been given under section 60 or consent obtained 
under section 61 of the Control of Pollution Act 1974 or which is an unavoidable consequence of the 
authorised development. A similar provision has been included in other made Orders for gas fired 
generating stations, including the Hirwaun Generating Station Order 2015, the Progress Power (Gas 
Fired Power Station) Order 2015 and the Wrexham Gas Fired Generating Station Order 2017. 
 
95357990.1\KJ13 
9 
53. 
Article 39 (Protective provisions) provides for Schedule 11, which protects the interests of certain 
statutory undertakers, to have effect. 
54. 
Article 40 (Certification of plans etc.) is a model provision (model provision article 41) which provides 
for the submission of the book of reference, design principles statement, environmental statement, 
land plans, rights of way, streets and access plans, works plans, outline construction environment 
management plan, outline landscape and ecological mitigation strategy, outline lighting strategy, 
outline construction staff travel plan, outline surface water management plan, outline drainage 
strategy, flood consequences assessment and hedgerow plan referred to in the Order to the 
Secretary of State in order that they may be certified as being true copies. 
55. 
Article 41 (Service of notices) deals with the service of notices pursuant to the Order. These 
provisions are based on those appearing in the Transport and Works (Model Provisions for Railways 
and Tramways) Order 2006. 
56. 
Article 42 (Procedure in relation to certain approvals) provides a procedure in relation to consents and 
approvals required pursuant to the Order. It applies to all such consents etc, bar those under 
requirements in Schedule 2, where a separate more detailed procedure is provided for in Schedule 
12. Schedule 12 has been used in various draft development consent orders and can be seen in a 
similar form in the Wrexham Gas Fired Generating Station Order 2017. It also provides that the 
procedures set out in Schedule 12 apply to any consent, agreement or refusal which needs to be 
obtained under the requirements set out in Schedule 2 to the Order. Article 42 clarifies the procedure 
which applies in respect of these additional consents, including by making clear that the appeals 
process set out in Schedule 12 applies. 
57. 
Article 43 (Arbitration) is a general arbitration provision which provides that differences under the 
Order should be settled by arbitration unless another means of resolving a dispute is provided for in 
the Order.  It is a model provision (model provision article 42). 
58. 
Article 44 (Application and modification of legislative provisions) modifies Regulation 6 of the 
Hedgerows Regulations 1997 for the purposes of the Order to permit the removal of any hedgerow for 
the purpose of carrying out authorised development under the Order. 
Schedules 
 
59. 
Schedule 1 (Authorised development) specifies the authorised development: 
59.1 
Work Nos. 1A to 1F: describe the works necessary for the Generating Equipment - an open 
cycle gas turbine power generation plant with a gross rated electrical output of up to 299 MWe, 
incorporating one gas turbine generator with an exhaust gas flue stack. 
59.2 
Work No 2 describes the means of access to the Generating Equipment required together with 
electricity and telecommunications connections and other services (including drainage).  
59.3 
Work No 3 describes the temporary construction laydown area and site and welfare offices and 
workshop. 
59.4 
Work No. 4 describes the ecological mitigation area in which landscape and ecological 
mitigation will be undertaken. 
59.5 
Work No. 5 describes the earthworks required for the Generating Equipment and the access 
road. 
60. 
Schedule 2 (Requirements) sets out the requirements which apply to the carrying out of and operation 
of the authorised development under the Order. They broadly follow those set out in the model 
provisions, where relevant, and where they have been amended this has been done following 
discussions with the relevant planning authority and/or other statutory consultees. The requirements 
closely relate to the mitigation set out in the Environmental Statement (Document Reference 6.1). 
60.1 
Requirement 1: requires that the authorised development is commenced within five years from 
the Order having been made. This broadly follows the model provision. 
 
95357990.1\KJ13 
10 
60.2 
Requirement 2: requirement 2(1) sets out a list of plans in accordance with which the 
authorised development must be carried out. The requirement also notes that any documents 
approved pursuant to the requirements themselves will need to be complied with. This is more 
robust wording than that used in the model provisions but carries the model provision principle 
through. Requirement 2(2) sets out parameters for key elements of the authorised development 
and such parameters have been assessed within the Environmental Statement (Document 
Reference 6.1) submitted with the application. Requirement 2(3) stipulates that the earthworks 
(numbered work 5) may not commence until details of levels and sections have been submitted 
to and approved by the relevant planning authority. Requirement 2(4) requires details of the 
layout, scale and appearance of key numbered works to be submitted and approved by the 
relevant planning authority prior to work commencing on that numbered work (insofar as not 
already approved under requirement 5 which provides for approval of new highway accesses).  
Requirement 2(5) stipulates that to the extent that design principles for any numbered work are 
set out in the design principles statement (Document Reference 10.2), that numbered work 
must be designed substantially in accordance with the relevant principle.  
60.3 
Requirement 3: secures the landscaping mitigation proposals set out in the Environmental 
Statement (Document Reference 6.1) through the submission of a written landscaping plan 
(containing certain specified details in relation to hard and soft landscaping works) in respect of 
numbered works 1 and 2 for the approval of the relevant planning authority. The landscape 
plan that is submitted for approval must be substantially in accordance with the outline 
landscape and ecological mitigation strategy appended to the Environmental Statement 
(Appendix 3.4 of Document Reference 6.2). Requirement 3 deals with the implementation and 
maintenance of landscaping measures and requires all landscaping works to be carried out in 
accordance with the plan approved pursuant to requirement 3. 
60.4 
Requirement 4: secures the submission to the relevant planning authority (in consultation with 
the highway authority) of the details of siting, design and layout of any new or modified 
accesses being created onto the highway as a result of the authorised development. Such 
works have to be carried out in accordance with the approved details.  This follows the principle 
of the model provision except that it clarifies that where the details have already been provided 
as part of the application for this Order, they do not need to be provided again.  
60.5 
Requirement 5: secures the submission of details to the relevant planning authority for approval 
for all proposed permanent and temporary enclosures relating to numbered works 1 to 5. Once 
approved, the details are to be implemented. This requirement broadly follows the model 
provision. 
60.6 
Requirement 6: requires that prior to the commencement of works 1, 2 and 3, written details of 
the surface and foul water drainage strategy have been submitted to and approved by the 
relevant planning authority, in accordance with the principles set out in the outline drainage 
strategy contained in Appendix E of the flood consequences assessment (Appendix 9.1 of 
Document Reference 6.2). The Requirement secures that the surface and foul water drainage 
system is to be constructed in accordance with the approved details. 
60.7 
Requirement 7: requires that prior to the commencement of works 1, 2,  3, and 5 written details 
of the surface water management plan have been submitted to and approved by the relevant 
planning authority, in accordance with the principles set out in the outline surface water 
management plan contained in the Environmental Statement (Appendix 3.2 of Document 
Reference 6.2). The Requirement secures that the surface water management plan is to be 
constructed in accordance with the approved details. 
60.8 
Requirement 8: secures a pre-construction ecological constraints survey as set out in the 
Environmental Statement (Document Reference 6.1) through the submission of survey reports 
for badger setts, otters and water vole to the relevant planning authority in consultation with 
Natural Resources Wales.  Where the surveys reveal badger setts, otter or water vole within 
the relevant working area for the authorised development, the report must set out proposed 
mitigation measures.  The Requirement secures that mitigation is carried out in accordance 
with the approved details prior to construction of the authorised works. 
60.9 
Requirement 9: secures the ecological mitigation proposals set out in the Environmental 
Statement (Document Reference 6.1) through the submission of a written ecological 
management in respect of all numbered works for the approval of the relevant planning 
 
95357990.1\KJ13 
11 
authority. The ecological management plan that is submitted for approval must be substantially 
in accordance with the outline landscape and ecological mitigation strategy appended to the 
Environmental Statement (Appendix 3.4 of Document Reference 6.2). Requirement 9 requires 
all ecological mitigation works to be carried out in accordance with the plan approved pursuant 
to requirement 9. 
60.10 
Requirement 10:  is not a model provision.  The Requirement secures the invasive species 
survey described in the Environmental Statement (Document Reference 6.1) and provides that 
no numbered work can commence until a survey has been carried out and a protocol for the 
management, maintenance and monitoring of the scheme has been approved in writing by the 
local planning authority.  The Requirement specifies that the protocol shall be in accordance 
with the recommendations set out in the outline landscape and ecological mitigation strategy 
appended to the Environmental Statement (Appendix 3.4 of Document Reference 6.2).  
Requirement 6(2) secures the implementation of the approved protocol. 
60.11 
Requirement 11: is not a model provision.  The Requirement secures the pre-construction 
checks on trees and hedgerows with the potential for supporting bat roosts described in the 
Environmental Statement (Document Reference 6.1). The Requirement provides the pre-
construction checks must be substantially in accordance with Appendix C of the outline 
landscape and ecological mitigation strategy (Appendix 3.4 of Document Reference 6.2). 
Where the survey demonstrates that any trees or hedgerows proposed for removal support 
roosting bats, no works may be undertaken for removal of trees or hedgerows until a statement 
outlining mitigation measures to avoid impacts on roosting bats has been approved by the 
relevant planning authority, in consultation with Natural Resources Wales.  Requirement 11(3) 
secures the implementation of the approved Method Statement. 
60.12 
Requirement 12: is not a model provision.  The Requirement secures reptile method statement 
described in the Environmental Statement (Document Reference 6.1) which must be submitted 
and approved in writing by the relevant planning authority in consultation with Natural 
Resources Wales.  The Requirement provides that the reptile method statement must be 
substantially in accordance with the measures set out in Appendix A of the outline landscape 
and ecological mitigation strategy (Appendix 3.4 of Document Reference 6.2).  Requirement 
12(2) secures implementation of the reptile method statement prior to commencement of the 
relevant numbered works. 
60.13 
Requirement 13: is derived from a model provision and requires that none of the authorised 
development may commence until a written scheme of archaeological investigation has been 
submitted to and approved by the local planning authority. The Requirement specifies particular 
provisions that must be made in the written scheme of archaeological investigation and 
specifies that the investigation must be carried out in accordance with the approved scheme 
unless otherwise agreed in writing by the relevant planning authority. Requirement 13(5) makes 
provision for an interpretative report to be prepared and submitted to the relevant planning 
authority in the event that any archaeological assets are discovered during the watching brief. 
This requirement has been worded to reflect discussions with the relevant planning authority. 
60.14 
Requirement 14: requires that numbered works 1 and 2 may not commence until reports 
covering an assessment of the geotechnical properties of the substrata for that numbered work  
(and where necessary, a mining risk assessment and/or foundation risk assessment) have 
been submitted and approved by the relevant planning authority. If required, a remediation 
method statement must be submitted and approved by the relevant planning authority in 
consultation with Natural Resources Wales.  Requirement 14(5) secures that any required 
remediation must be carried out in accordance with the approved remediation method 
statement.  This requirement has been worded to reflect discussions with the relevant planning 
authority. 
60.15 
Requirement 15:  is not a model provision.  The requirement secures the provision of a 
minerals resources survey should the site investigation report demonstrate the presence of 
minerals.  The minerals resources survey must be submitted to and approved in writing by the 
relevant planning authority.  This requirement is necessary to comply with adopted local 
planning policy.  Requirement 15(2) requires the undertaker to have regard to the findings of 
the minerals resources survey when preparing the decommissioning strategy under 
Requirement 27.  This requirement has been worded to reflect discussions with the relevant 
planning authority. 
 
95357990.1\KJ13 
12 
60.16 
Requirement 16: is not a model provision.  This requirement secures the delivery of a peat 
management plan where the site investigation report demonstrates the presence of peat on the 
site.  The need for a peat management plan is described in the Environmental Statement 
(Document Reference 6.1).  Where peat has been identified in a relevant part of the site, no 
authorised works may begin in that area until a peat management plan has been submitted to 
and approved in writing by the relevant planning authority in consultation with Natural 
Resources Wales.  Requirement 16(2) secures the implementation of the approved peat 
management plan. 
60.17 
Requirement 17: is not a model provision, although it does incorporate several separate 
provisions. The requirement secures the submission for approval by the relevant planning 
authority of a construction environment management plan (CEMP). The final construction 
environment management plan must be substantially in accordance with the outline 
construction environment management plan appended to the Environmental Statement 
(Appendix 3.1 of Document Reference 6.2). The requirement also specifies particular measures 
that the final CEMP must contain. All construction works are required to be undertaken in 
accordance with the approved CEMP. 
60.18 
Requirement 18: is not a model provision.  It secures the provision of a dust management plan 
as described in the Environmental Statement (Document Reference 6.1).  The dust 
management plan must be submitted and approved in writing by the relevant planning authority 
in consultation with Natural Resources Wales.  Requirement 18(2) provides for all construction 
works to be undertaken in accordance with the approved dust management plan. 
60.19 
Requirement 19: is not a model provision.  It secures the provision of a pollution prevent 
management plan as described in the Environmental Statement (Document Reference 6.1).  
The pollution prevention management plan must be submitted and approved in writing by the 
relevant planning authority in consultation with Natural Resources Wales.  It must be 
substantially in accordance with the outline construction environmental management plan 
(Appendix 3.1 of Document Reference 6.2).  Requirement 19(2) requires all construction works 
to be carried out in accordance with the approved pollution prevention management plan. 
60.20 
Requirement 20: is not a model provision.  It secures the provision of a waste and material 
management plan as described in the Environmental Statement (Document Reference 6.1).  
The waste and material management plan must be substantially in accordance with the 
contents outlined in the outline construction environmental management plan (Appendix 3.1 of 
Document Reference 6.2).  The waste and material management plan must be submitted to 
and approved in writing by the relevant planning authority in consultation with Natural 
Resources Wales. Requirement 20(2) requires all construction works to be carried out in 
accordance with the approved waste and material management plan.  
60.21 
Requirement 21: requires a construction traffic management plan (CTMP) to be submitted prior 
to the commencement of the authorised development (other than tree felling). This plan must 
be substantially in accordance with the outline plan that is appended to the Environmental 
Statement (Appendix 3.3(a) of Document Reference 6.2).  The requirement specifies particular 
information the final CTMP must contain.  Requirement 21(2) secures the implementation of the 
CTMP for the entire duration of the construction period. 
60.22 
Requirement 22: requires the submission to and approval by the relevant planning authority of 
a written construction staff travel plan prior to the date of commencement of any numbered 
work. The construction staff travel plan submitted for approval must be substantially in 
accordance with the outline construction staff travel plan that is appended to the Environmental 
Statement (Appendix 3.3(b) of Document Reference 6.2). The construction staff travel plan 
must be carried out as approved. 
60.23 
Requirement 23: is based on a model provision and specifies the days on which and hours 
within which (provision for start up and shut down is made) construction works and the delivery 
and removal of materials can take place. The requirement does not prevent the undertaker 
from undertaking these works outside the specified hours but this can only be done with the 
prior, written approval of the relevant planning authority. 
60.24 
Requirement 24: requires the undertaker to notify the relevant planning authority of the date of 
final commissioning, the date of completion of construction and the date of the authorised 
 
95357990.1\KJ13 
13 
development permanently ceasing to generate power on a commercial basis as soon as 
reasonably practicable and in any event within three months after the occurrence of that date. 
60.25 
Requirement 25: requires that, following the final commissioning, site-attributable noise arising 
from the operation of numbered work 1 must be limited to the noise levels set out in this 
Requirement. Noise measurements at or in close proximity to the four identified locations must 
be submitted to the relevant planning authority before the end of three months beginning with 
the date of final commissioning. Any remedial works must be carried out in accordance with the 
programme for implementation and the noise measurements repeated and submitted to the 
relevant planning authority for approval. This requirement has been worded to reflect 
discussions with the relevant planning authority. 
60.26 
Requirement 26: is based on a model provision and requires the submission of a written 
scheme for the management and mitigation of artificial light emissions for numbered work 1 for 
the approval of the relevant planning authority. The written scheme must be substantially in 
accordance with the outline lighting strategy (Appendix 3.5 to Document Reference 6.2). The 
approved scheme must be implemented and maintained during the operation of the relevant 
numbered work. 
60.27 
Requirement 27: details that within 24 months of the Order land ceasing to be used for the 
purposes of electricity generation, a scheme for the demolition and removal of numbered work 
1 must be submitted to the relevant planning authority for approval. Subject to obtaining the 
necessary consents, demolition and removal of numbered work 1 must be implemented in 
accordance with the approved scheme. Paragraph (3) of Requirement 15 specifies that on the 
authorised development ceasing to be used for the purposes of the electricity generation on a 
commercial basis, the undertaker must notify the relevant planning authority of the same within 
three months of that date. 
60.28 
Requirement 28: is based on a model provision and allows the relevant planning authority to 
approve amendments to details or plans already specified or approved. This is to allow 
flexibility, however this flexibility is given strict parameters in that it only applies to the extent 
assessed in the Environmental Statement (Document Reference 6.1). A similar Requirement 
appeared in the Progress Power (Gas Fired Power Station) Order 2015.  The drafting of this 
Requirement complies with the guidance set out in paragraph 19 of the Planning Inspectorate 
Advice Note 15, as it does not allow any approvals by the relevant planning authority to depart 
from the principles and parameters fixed by the application and assessed in the Environmental 
Statement (Document Reference 6.1). 
61. 
Schedule 3 (Streets subject to permanent and temporary alteration of layout) sets out the streets to 
be permanently altered (Part 1) or temporarily altered (Part 2). 
62. 
Schedule 4 (Streets subject to street works) sets out the streets that would be subject to street works 
(including reference to the relevant plan, the location and the specific street). 
63. 
Schedule 5 (Access) sets out those parts of accesses that are to be maintained at public expense or 
by the street authority (Parts 1 and 2 respectively) and those parts of works to restore temporary 
accesses that are to be maintained at the public expense (Part 3) or by the street authority (Part 4) 
which are referred to in Article 11 of the Order. 
64. 
Schedule 6 (Temporary prohibition or restriction of the use of streets) sets out the streets that will be 
subject to a temporary prohibition or restriction on the use of that street (including reference to the 
relevant plan, the location and the extent of the temporary prohibition or restriction on use). 
65. 
Schedule 7 (Streets to be stopped up) sets out the streets that will be subject to a permanent stopping 
up (including reference to the relevant plan, the location and the extent of the stopping up). 
66. 
Schedule 8 (Modification of compensation and compulsory purchase enactments for creation of new 
rights and imposition of new restrictions) modifies existing compensation legislation including the 
Land Compensation Act 1973 and the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965, in the case of a compulsory 
acquisition under the Order of a right by the creation of a new right or the imposition of a restriction. 
 
95357990.1\KJ13 
14 
67. 
Schedule 9 (Land of which temporary possession may be taken) sets out the land temporary 
possession of which may be taken pursuant to Article 29. It also makes clear the purpose for which 
such temporary possession may be taken. 
68. 
Schedule 10 (Removal of hedgerows) sets out the details of important hedgerows which are to be 
removed (including reference to the relevant plan, the location and extent of hedgerows to be 
removed). 
69. 
Schedule 11 (Protective provisions) includes draft protective provisions. Part 1 of Schedule 11 
protects electricity licence holders, gas transporters and sewerage undertakers (save for National 
Grid which is protected by Part 3, Western Power Distribution (South Wales) plc which is protected by 
Part 4, Dwr Cymru Cyfyngedig which is protected by Part 5, Abergelli Solar Limited which is protected 
by Part 6 and Wales and West Utilities Limited which is protected by Part 7). Part 2 protects operators 
of electronic communications code networks.  
70. 
In relation to Part 3, APL is engaging with National Grid to discuss and seek to agree these protective 
provisions. 
71. 
In relation to Part 4, APL is engaging with Western Power Distribution (South Wales) plc to discuss 
and seek to agree these protective provisions. 
72. 
In relation to Part 5, APL is engaging with Dwr Cynru Cyfyngedig to discuss and seek to agree these 
protective provisions. 
73. 
In relation to Part 6, APL is engaging with Abergelli Solar Limited to discuss and seek to agree these 
protective provisions.  
74. 
In relation to Part 7, APL is engaging with Wales and West Utilities Limited to discuss and seek to 
agree these protective provisions. 
75. 
Schedule 12 (Procedure for discharge of requirements) provides a clear procedure for the discharge 
of requirements by the relevant planning authority. It sets out clear time limits for decisions to be 
made within (the deemed consent provision is being discussed with the relevant planning authorities 
on the basis that paragraph (1)(1)(c) allows for the parties to agree an extension to the eight week 
period, in writing) and makes provision for appeals to be made in the event of a refusal of an 
application in relation to a requirement or if the relevant planning authority requires further information 
to be provided in relation to that application.  The wording also allows for deemed refusal by the 
relevant planning authority in circumstances where the relevant planning authority is of the view that 
the subject matter of the application would give rise to new or materially different environmental 
effects compared to those set out in the Environmental Statement (Document Reference 6.1). 
 
95357990.1\KJ13 
 
APPENDIX 1  
MARK-UP OF THE PROPOSED ORDER AGAINST THE MODEL PROVISION 
 
 
S T A T U T O R Y  I N S T R U M E N T S  
2009 201* No. 2265**** 
INFRASTRUCTURE PLANNING 
The Infrastructure Planning 
The Abergelli Power Gas Fired Generating Station Order 201[*] 
(Model Provisions) (England 
and Wales) Order 2009 
Made 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 1st September 2009[***] 201* 
Laid before Parliament 8th September 2009 
Coming into force - 
- 
1st October 2009*** 
CONTENTS 
£15.00 
STATUTORY INSTRUMENTS 
2009 No. 2265 
PART 1 
PRELIMINARY 
 
INFRASTRUCTURE PLANNING 
The Infrastructure Planning (Model Provisions) (England and 
Wales) Order 2009 
Made - - - - 1st September 2009 
Laid before Parliament 8th September 2009 
Coming into force - - 1st October 2009 
The Secretary of State, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 38 of the 
Planning Act 
2008(a), makes the following Order: 
1. 
Citation and commencement 
1. This Order may be cited as the Infrastructure Planning (Model Provisions) 
(England and 
Wales) Order 2009 and shall come into force on 1st October 2009. 
Model provisions 
2. The provisions set out in the Schedules to this Order, of which those contained in 
Schedules 1 
and 4 are of general application and those contained in Schedules 2 and 3 are of 
application to 
development relating to railways and harbours, respectively, are prescribed as model 
provisions 
for the purposes of section 38 of the Planning Act 2008. 
Signed by authority of the Secretary of State for Communities and Local Government 
 
 
2
Bill McKenzie 
 Parliamentary Under Secretary of State 
1st September 2009 Department for Communities and Local Government 
 SCHEDULE 1 Article 2 
General model provisions 
CONTENTS 
12. 
Interpretation 
 
PART 2 
PRINCIPAL POWERS 
 
23. 
Development consent etc. granted by the Order 
(a) 2008 c.29.  
 2 
34. 
Maintenance of authorised projectdevelopment 
5. 
Operation of authorised development 
46. 
Benefit of this Order 
57. 
Consent to transfer benefit of the Order 
 
6. Application and modification of legislative provisions 
7. Defence to proceedings in respect of statutory nuisance 
8. Street works 
PART 3 
STREETS 
 
9. Stopping up 8. 
Power to alter layout etc. of streets 
10. Public rights of way 
9. 
Street works 
10. 
Construction and maintenance of new or altered means of access 
11. 
Temporary stopping up prohibition or restriction of use of streets 
12. 
Stopping up of Streets 
13. 
Access to works 
1314. Agreements with street authorities 
15. 
Traffic Regulation 
 
PART 4 
SUPPLEMENTAL POWERS 
 
1416. Discharge of water 
15. Protective work to buildings 
1617. Authority to survey and investigate the land 
1718. Removal of human remains 
 
PART 5 
POWERS OF ACQUISITION 
 
1819. Compulsory acquisition of land 
1920. Compulsory acquisition of land – incorporation of the mineral code 
21. 
Statutory authority to override easements and other rights 
2022. Time limit for exercise of authority to acquire land compulsorily 
 
 
3
2123. Compulsory acquisition of rights etc. 
24. 
Private rights 
22. Private rights of way 
2325. Application of the Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act 1981 
2426. Acquisition of subsoil only 
25. Acquisition of land limited to subsoil lying more than 9 metres beneath surface 
27. 
Application of Part 1 of the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965 
26. Acquisition of part of certain properties 
2728. Rights under or over streets 
2829. Temporary use of land for in connection with the carrying out the authorised 
projectof the authorised development 
2930. Temporary use of land for maintaining the authorised projectdevelopment 
30. Special category land 
31. 
Statutory undertakers 
32. 
Apparatus and rights of statutory undertakers in stopped-up streets 
33. 
Recovery of costs of new connections 
34. Railway and navigation undertakings 
34. 
Funding 
 
PART 6 
OPERATIONS 
 
35. 
Felling or lopping of trees and removal of hedgerows 
 
PART 7 
MISCELLANEOUS AND GENERAL 
 
3536. Application of landlord and tenant law 
3637. Operational land for the purposes of the 1990 Act 
37. Deemed consent under section 34 of the Coast Protection Act 1949 
38. Deemed licence under Part 2 of the Food and Environment Protection Act 1985 
39. Felling or lopping of trees 
40. Trees subject to tree preservation orders 
38. 
Defence to proceedings in respect of statutory nuisance 
39. 
Protective provisions 
4140. Certification of plans etc. 
41. 
Service of notices 
42. 
Procedure in relation to certain approvals 
4243. Arbitration 
 3 
Schedule A 
AUTHORISED PROJECT 
Part 1 
44. 
Application and modification of legislative provisions 
 
 
SCHEDULE 1 — AUTHORISED DEVELOPMENT 
Part 2 
 
SCHEDULE 2 — REQUIREMENTS 
 
 
4
 
SCHEDULE 3 — STREETS SUBJECT TO PERMANENT AND TEMPORARY 
ALTERATION OF LAYOUT 
 
PART 1 — PERMANENT ALTERATION OF LAYOUT 
 
PART 2 — TEMPORARY ALTERATION OF LAYOUT 
ANCILLARY SCHEDULE 4 
— 
STREETS SUBJE
Schedule B 
STREETS SUBJECT TO STREET WORKS 
Schedule C 
 
SCHEDULE 5 — ACCESS 
 
PART 1 — THOSE PARTS OF ACCESSES TO BE MAINTAINED AT 
THE PUBLIC EXPENSE 
 
PART 2 — THOSE PARTS OF ACCESSES TO BE MAINTAINED BY 
THE STREET AUTHORITY 
 
PART 3 — THOSE WORKS TO RESTORE TEMPORARY ACCESSES 
WHICH WILL BE MAINTAINED AT THE PUBLIC 
EXPENSE 
 
PART 4 — THOSE WORKS TO RESTORE TEMPORARY ACCESSES 
WHICH WILL BE MAINTAINED BY THE STREET 
AUTHORITY 
 
SCHEDULE 6 — TEMPORARY PROHIBITION OR RESTRICTION OF THE 
USE OF STREETS 
 
SCHEDULE 7 — STREETS TO BE STOPPED UP 
Part 1 
 
SCHEDULE 8 — MODIFICATION OF COMPENSATION AND 
COMPULSORY PURCHASE ENACTMENTS FOR 
CREATION OF NEW RIGHTS AND IMPOSITION OF NEW 
RESTRICTIONS 
STREETS FOR WHICH A SUBSTITUTE IS TO BE PROVIDED 
Part 2 
STREETS FOR WHICH NO SUBSTITUTE IS TO BE PROVIDED 
Schedule D 
STREETS TO BE TEMPORARILY STOPPED UP 
Schedule E 
ACCESS TO WORKS 
Schedule F 
LAND OF WHICH ONLY SUBSOIL MORE THAN 9 METRES BENEATH 
SURFACE 
MAY BE ACQUIRED 
Schedule G 
 
SCHEDULE 9 — LAND OF WHICH TEMPORARY POSSESSION MAY BE 
TAKEN 
Schedule H 
 
SCHEDULE 10 — REMOVAL OF HEDGEROWS 
 
SCHEDULE 11 — PROTECTIVE PROVISIONS 
DEEMED CONSENT UNDER COAST PART 1 
— 
FOR THE PROTE
Schedule I 
DEEMED LICENCE UNDER THE FOOD AND ENVIRONMENT  
PART 2 
— 
FOR THE
 
PART 3 — FOR THE PROTECTION OF NATIONAL GRID 
 
PART 4 — FOR THE PROTECTION OF WESTERN POWER 
DISTRIBUTION LIMITED (SOUTH WALES) PLC 
 
PART 5 — FOR THE PROTECTION OF DWR CYMRU CYFYNGEDIG 
 
 
5
 
PART 6 — FOR THE PROTECTION OF ABERGELLI SOLAR LIMITED 
 
PART 7 — FOR THE PROTECTION OF WALES AND WEST 
UTILITIES LIMITED 
 
SCHEDULE 12 — PROCEDURE FOR DISCHARGE OF REQUIREMENTS 
An application under section 37 of the Planning Act 2008(a) (the “2008 Act”) has been made to 
the Secretary of State for an order granting development consent. 
The application has been examined by a [single appointed person] appointed by the Secretary of 
State pursuant to Chapter 3 of Part 6 of the 2008 Act and carried out in accordance with Chapter 4 
of Part 6 of the 2008 Act and the Infrastructure Planning (Examination Procedure) Rules 2010(b). 
The [single appointed person] has submitted a report and recommendation to the Secretary of 
State under section 83 of the 2008 Act(c). 
The Secretary of State, has considered the report and recommendation of the Examining 
Authority, has taken into account the environmental information in accordance with regulation 3 
of the Infrastructure Planning (Environmental Impact Assessment) Regulations 2009(d) and has 
had regard to the documents and matters referred to in section 104(2) of the 2008 Act. 
The Secretary of State, having decided the application, has determined to make an order giving 
effect to the proposals comprised in the application. 
In accordance with section 127 of the 2008 Act (e), the Secretary of State has applied the relevant 
tests and is satisfied that they have been met. 
Accordingly, the Secretary of State, in exercise of the powers in sections 114, 115, and 120 of the 
2008 Act, makes the following Order— 
                                                                                                                                       
(a) 2008 c.29: The relevant provisions of the 2008 Act are amended by Chapter 6 of Part 6 of, and schedule 13 to, the Localism 
Act 2011 (c. 20) and by sections 22–27 of the Growth and Infrastructure Act 2013 (c. 27). Transitional provisions are 
contained in S.I. 2013/1124. 
(b) S.I. 2010/103, amended by S.I. 2012/635. 
(c) 2008 c.29. Section 83 was amended by paragraphs 35(2) and 35(3) of schedule 13(1) and paragraph 1 of section 25(20) to 
the Localism Act 2011 (c.20). 
(d) S.I. 2009/2263. Regulation 3 was amended by S.I. 2012/635 and S.I. 2012/787. S.I 2009/2263 was revoked by S.I. 
2017/572, but continues to apply to this application for development consent by virtue of transitional provisions contained 
in Regulation 37(2) of that instrument. 
(e) 2008( c.29), Section 127 was amended by sections 23(2)(a), 23(2)(b) and 23(2)(c) of the Growth and Infrastructure Act 
2013 (c.27) and by paragraphs 64(1) and (2) of Schedule 13(1). 
 
 
6
PART 1 
PRELIMINARY 
Citation and commencement 
1. This Order may be cited as the Abergelli Power Gas Fired Generating Station Order 201* 
and comes into force on [X] 201[X]. 
1985 
Schedule J 
TREES SUBJECT TO TREE PRESERVATION ORDERS 
Interpretation 
2.1.—(1) —(1) In this Order— 
“the 1961 Act” means the Land Compensation Act 1961(a);1961(a); 
(a) 1961 c.33. Section 2(2) was amended by section 193 of, and paragraph 5 of 
Schedule 33 to, the Local Government, 
Planning and Land Act 1980 (c.65). There are other amendments to the 1961 Act 
which are not relevant to this Order.  
 4 
“the 1965 Act” means the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965(a1965(b); 
                                                                                                                                       
(a) 1961 c.33. Section 1 was amended by paragraphs 37(a) and (b) of Schedule 1 to the Transfer of Tribunal Functions (Lands 
Tribunal and Miscellaneous Amendments) Order 2009/1307; Sections 2 and  3 were repealed by paragraph 38 of Schedule 
1 to the Transfer of Tribunal Functions (Lands Tribunal and Miscellaneous Amendments) Order 2009/1307; Section 4 was 
amended by paragraphs 39(a), (b) and (c) of Schedule 1 to the Transfer of Tribunal Functions (Lands Tribunal and 
Miscellaneous Amendments) Order 2009/1307. There are other amendments to the 1961 Act which are not relevant to this 
Order. 
(b) 1965 c.56. Section 1 was amended by part 1 of Schedule 6 and paragraph 14(2) of Schedule 4 to the Acquisition of Land 
Act 1981, section 4 of and  paragraph 13(1)(a) of Schedule 2 to the Planning (Consequential Provisions) Act 1990 (c.11), 
and paragraph 1 of Schedule 10 to the Courts Act 2003, (c.39); Sections 2, 7,  9, 14, 21, 22, 24 26, 28 and 30, paragraph 2 
of Schedule 2 and paragraphs 2(3) and 7(2) of Schedule 4 were amended by section 9(3) and paragraph 5 of Schedule 3 to 
the Gas Act 1986 (c.44), section 245(4) of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 (c.8), section 151(5) of and paragraph 
2(1) of Schedule 18  to the Water Act 1989 (c.15),  section 13(2) of the Local Government (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 
1976 (c.57), section 7(1)(b) of the Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act 1981 (c.66), section 30(1) of the 
Acquisition of Land Act 1981 (c.67) and section 129 of the Local Government Act 1972 (c.70), sections 39 and 40 and 
paragraphs 11(1) to Schedule 5 and paragraph 1 to Schedule 4 of the Forestry Act 1967 (c.10), section 49(7)(i) of the 
Agriculture Act 1967 (c.22), section 15 of the Greater London Council (General Powers) Act  1967 (c.xx), and section 
60(1) of the Post Office Act 1969 (c.48), sections 120(3), 124(2) and  273(1) of the Local Government Act 1972 (c.70), 
article 4 of S.I. 1978/829, article 3 of S.I. 1978/1125 and Part I of Schedule 6 to the New Towns Act 1981 (c.64), with 
section 129 words of enactment omitted under authority of section 3 of the Statute Law Revision Act 1948 (c.62); Sections 
2, 7, 9, 14, 21, 22, 26, 28 and 32 were amended by sections 120(3), 124(2), and 273(1) of the Local Government Act 1972 
(c.70), article 4 of S.I. 1978/829, article 3 of S.I. 1978/1125, Schedule 6 Part I of the New Towns Act 1981 (c.64), sections 
6, 37(4)(5), 38, and paragraphs 2(2) and 15(9) of Schedule  2 and paragraphs 3(1), 5(1) and 8 of Schedule 5 to the Channel 
Tunnel Act 1987 (c.53), sections 2(2), and paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 Part II and paragraph 1(8) of Schedule  3 to the 
Dartford–Thurrock Crossing Act 1988 (c.20), section 10(1) and paragraph 6 of Schedule 3 Part I to the Electricity Act 1989 
(c.29),  sections 151(5),  151(6), 155(3)–(7) of and paragraphs 2(2)(3)–(8) of Schedule 18 and paragraphs  6(1)(a) of 
Schedule 20 to the Water Act 1989 (c.15), section 10(1) of and paragraphs 7–13 of  Schedule 3 Part I to the Electricity Act 
1989 (c.29),  and extended by paragraph 16(1) of Schedule 2 to the Telecommunications Act 1984 (c.12); Section 3 was 
amended by paragraph 3 of Schedule 15(1) to the Planning and Compensation Act 1991 (c.34); Section 4 was amended by 
s182(1) of the Housing and Planning Act 2016 (c.22); Section 4A was inserted by s202(1) of the Housing and Planning Act 
2016 (c.22); Section 5 was amended by section 67 of the Planning and Compensation Act 1991 (c.34) and paragraph 60 of 
Schedule 1 to the Transfer of Tribunal Functions (Lands Tribunal and Miscellaneous Amendments) Order 2009/1307; 
Section 6 was amended by paragraph 61 of Schedule 1 to the Transfer of Tribunal Functions (Lands Tribunal and 
Miscellaneous Amendments) Order 2009/1307; Section 7 was also extended by section 237(4)(a) of the Town and Country 
Planning Act 1990 (c.8), and by section 78(2)(a), and paragraph 5(4) of Schedule 10 to the Housing Act 1988 (c.50); 
Section 8 was amended by paragraphs 62(b) and (c) of Schedule 1 to the Transfer of Tribunal Functions (Lands Tribunal 
and Miscellaneous Amendments) Order 2009/1307 and paragraph 2 of Schedule 17(1) to the Housing and Planning Act 
2016 (c.22); Section 9 was also amended by section 1(1) of and Schedule 1 to the Statute Law (Repeals) Act 1973 (c.39), 
section 52(10)(a) of the Land Compensation Act 1973 (c.26), section 13(3) and paragraphs 4 and 5 to Schedule 3 of the 
Agriculture (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1968 (c. 34), section 146(10) of the Town and Country Planning Act (c.8) and 
 
 
 
7
“the 1980 Act” means the Highways Act 1980(b1980(a); 
“the 1984 Act” means the Road Traffic Regulation Act 1984(b); 
                                                                                                                                       
by section 54(7) of the Land Compensation Act (c.26); Section 10 was amended by paragraph 63 of Schedule 1 to the 
Transfer of Tribunal Functions (Lands Tribunal and Miscellaneous Amendments) Order 2009/1307 and paragraphs 13(2)(a) 
and (b) of Schedule 2 to the Planning (Consequential Provisions) Act 1990 (c.11); Section 11 was amended by 
s186(2)(a)(i), s186(2)(a)(ii), s186(2) (b), s187(2), s188 and paragraph 6 of Schedule 14 to  the Housing and Planning Act 
2016 (c.22), paragraphs 14(3)(a) and (b) of Schedule 4 to the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 (c.67), paragraph 12(1) of 
Schedule 5 to the Church of England (Miscellaneous Provisions) Measure 2006 No.1, and paragraph 64 of Schedule 1 to the 
Transfer of Tribunal Functions (Lands Tribunal and Miscellaneous Amendments) Order 2009/1307; Section 11A was added 
by s186(3) of the Housing and Planning Act 2016 (c.22); Section 11B was added by s187(3) of the Housing and Planning 
Act 2016 (c.22); Section 12(6) was amended by paragraph 4 of Schedule 16 to the Housing and Planning Act 2016 (c.22); 
Section 13 was amended by section 139 (5), (6), (7), (8), (9), paragraph 28(2) of Schedule 13 and paragraph 1 of Schedule 
23(3) to the Tribunals, Courts and Enforcement Act 2007 (c. 15); Section 15 was amended by paragraph 65 of Schedule 1 to 
the Transfer of Tribunal Functions (Lands Tribunal and Miscellaneous Amendments) Order 2009/1307; Section 16 was 
amended by paragraph  66 of Schedule 1 to the Transfer of Tribunal Functions (Lands Tribunal and Miscellaneous 
Amendments) Order 2009/1307; Section 17 was amended by paragraph  67 of Schedule 1 to the Transfer of Tribunal 
Functions (Lands Tribunal and Miscellaneous Amendments) Order 2009/1307; Section 18 was amended by paragraph  68 
of Schedule 1 to the Transfer of Tribunal Functions (Lands Tribunal and Miscellaneous Amendments) Order 2009/1307; 
Section 19 was amended by paragraph  69 of Schedule 1 to the Transfer of Tribunal Functions (Lands Tribunal and 
Miscellaneous Amendments) Order 2009/1307; Section 20 was amended by paragraph 4 of Schedule 15(I) to the Planning 
and Compensation Act 1991 (c. 34) and paragraph 70 of Schedule 1 to the Transfer of Functions (Lands Tribunal and 
Miscellaneous Amendments) Order 2009/1307; Section 22 was also modified by paragraphs 4 and 5 of Schedule 3 to the 
Agriculture (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1968 (c.34), and excluded by section 10(3) of the Compulsory Purchase 
(Vesting Declarations) Act 1981 (c.66); Section 23 was amended by paragraph 4(1) of Schedule 11(2) to the Constitutional 
Reform Act 2005 c.4; Section 24 was also amended  by s17(2)(3) and Schedule 2 to the Rentcharges Act 1977 (c.30); 
Section 25 was amended by paragraph 4(1) of Schedule 11(2) to the Constitutional Reform Act 2005 c.4. and s1(1)  and 
Part IX of Schedule 1 to the Statute Law (Repeals) Act (c.39);  Section 26 was also amended  by section 13(3) and 
paragraphs 4 and 5 of Schedule 3 to the Agriculture (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1968 (c.34); Section 27 was repealed 
by article 3 and Schedule 1 to S.I. 1990/776; Section 29 was repealed by paragraph 1 of Schedule 23(3) to the Courts and 
Enforcement Act 2007 (c.15); Section 30 was also amended by section 34(1) and paragraph 14(4) of Schedule  4 to the 
Acquisition of Land Act 1981 (c.67); Section 31 was amended by s34(1) and paragraph 14(5) of Schedule 4 to the 
Acquisition of Land Act 1981 (c.67), paragraph 19(b) of Schedule 15(II) to the Planning and Compensation Act 1991 (c.34) 
and paragraph 12(2) of Schedule 5 to the Church of England (Miscellaneous Provisions) Measure 2006 No.1; Section 32 
was also amended by section 34(1), and paragraph 14(6) of Schedule 4 to the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 (c.67); 
Paragraph 10 of Schedule 1 was amended by Schedule 9(3), Schedule 3 Part II paragraph 5 of the Gas Act 1986 (c.44), 
sections 10 and 14(4) of the Land Commission Act 1967 (c. 1), section 28(4) and Schedule 3 paragraph 3 of the Courts Act 
1971 (c. 23), sections 47(6) and 52(2) of the Highways Act 1971 (c. 41), section 10(1) and Schedule 3 paragraphs 6–13 of 
the Electricity Act 1989 (c.29), section 78(2)(b) and Schedule 10 Part III paragraph 20–23 of the  Housing Act 1988 (c.50), 
section 578 of the  Housing Act 1985 (c.68), section 37(4) of the Land Drainage Act 1976 (c. 70),  sections 6(2)(4)(6)(7) 
and 27, Schedule 4 Part II and Schedule 7 paragraph 5(5) of the Development of Rural Wales Act 1976 (c.75), article 4 of 
S.I. 1978/268, section 250 and Schedule 19 of the Highways Act 1980 (c.66), section 245(4) of the Town and Country 
Planning Act 1990 (c. 8), section 151(5) and Schedule 18 paragraph 2(1) (with sections 58(7), 101(1), 141(6), 160(1)(2)(4), 
163, 189(4)–(10), 190, 193(1), Schedule 26 paragraphs 3(1)(2), 17, 40(4), 57(6), 58) of the Water Act 1989 (c.15), section 
13(2) of the Local Government (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1976 (c.57), section 7(1)(b) of the Compulsory Purchase 
(Vesting Declarations) Act 1981 (c.66), section 30(1) of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 (c.67), and section 129 of the 
Local Government Act 1972 (c. 70) Words of enactment omitted under authority of section 3 of the Statute Law Revision 
Act 1948 (c. 62) and modified by section 13(3), Schedule 3 paragraphs 4 and 5 of Agriculture (Miscellaneous Provisions) 
Act 1968 (c. 34); Paragraph 2 of Schedule 2 was modified by section 13(3) and paragraphs 4 and 5 of Schedule 3 to the 
Agriculture (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1968 (c. 34), section 10(2) of the Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations) 
Act 1981 (c.66), paragraph 14 of Schedule 3A to the Town and Country Planning Act 1968 (c. 72) and Schedule 2, 
Appendix A to the Land Commission (Dissolution) Act 1971 (c. 18); Paragraph 13 of Schedule 2A was amended by 
paragraph 3 of Schedule 17(1) to the Housing and Planning Act 2016 (c.22). There are other amendments to the 1965 Act 
which are not relevant to this Order. 
(a) 1980 c.66. Section 328 was amended by sections 27, 28 and 54 of , and paragraphs 1(2) of Part I and 2 of Part III of  
Schedule  2 to, the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 (c.8), by sections 3 and 19 of, and paragraph 9 of Schedule 3 to, 
the Dartford–Thurrock Crossing Act 1988 (c.20), s35, and  by paragraphs 7(1) and 10(1) of Schedule 4 to the Channel 
Tunnel Act 1987 (c.53), and extended by sections 58(7), 101(1), 141(6), 160(1)(2)(4), 163, 189(4)–(10), 190, 193(1) of, and 
paragraph 1(2)(xxv)(8) of Schedule 25 and paragraphs 3(1)(2), 17, 40(4), 57(6), and 58 of Schedule 26 to, the Water Act 
1989 (c.15),  and by s112(1)(3) of, and paragraph 2(4)(d)(6)(9) of Schedule 16, paragraphs 33 and 35(1) of Schedule 17 to, 
the Electricity Act 1989 (c.29), and by  s67(1)(3) of, and paragraph 2(1)(xl) of Schedule 7 and paragraph 33 of Schedule 8 
to, the Gas Act 1986 (c.44). There are other amendments to the 1980 Act which are not relevant to this Order. 
(b) 1984 c.27. 
 
 
8
“the 1990 Act” means the Town and Country Planning Act 1990(c1990(a); 
“the 1991 Act” means the New Roads and Street Works Act 1991(d1991(b); 
“the 2008 Act” means the Planning Act 2008(e);2008(c); 
                                                                                                                                       
(a) 1990 c.8. Section 106 was amended by section 12(1) of the Planning and Compensation Act 1991 (c.34), paragraphs 3(2) 
and 3(3) of Schedule2 to the  Growth and Infrastructure Act 2013 (c. 27),  sections 33(2), 33(3), 33(4) and 33(5) of the 
Greater London Authority Act 2007 (c. 24), and  by sections 174(2)(a), 174(2)(b) and 174(2)(c) of the Planning Act 2008 
(c. 29); Section 264 was amended by paragraph 54 of Schedule 1 to the Water Consolidation (Consequential Provisions) 
Act 1991 (c. 60), paragraph 9 of Schedule 3(1) to the British Waterways Board (Transfer of Functions) Order 2012/1659, 
paragraph 14 of Schedule 1(1) to the Transport for London (Consequential Provisions) Order 2003/1615, paragraphs 20(a) 
and 20(b) of Schedule 12 to the Localism Act 2011 (c. 20), paragraph 18 of Schedule 4(2) to the Infrastructure Act 2015 (c. 
7) ,  and by paragraph 13(a)(i) of Schedule 1(III) to the Transport Act 2000 (Consequential Amendments) Order 2001/4050. 
There are other amendments to the 1990 Act which are not relevant to this order. 
(b) 1991 c.22. Section 48 was amended by section 124(2) of the Local Transport Act 2008 (c.26); Section 49 was amended by 
paragraphs 117(a) and 117(b) of Schedule 1(2) to the Infrastructure Act 2015 (c.7); Section 50 was amended by section 
124(3) of the Local Transport Act 2008 (c.26); Section 51 was amended by paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Traffic 
Management Act 2004 (c.18); Section 54 was amended by the transitional provisions specified in article 6(1)–(3) and (5) of 
SI 2007/3174 and by section  49(1) and paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Traffic Management Act 2004 (c. 18); Section 55 
was amended by section 51(9) and paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Traffic Management Act 2004 (c.18), and subject  to 
transitional provisions specified in article 6(4) and (5) of SI 2007/3174 by section 49(2) of the Traffic Management Act 
2004 (c.18);  Section 56 was amended by paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Traffic Management Act 2004 (c. 18), and 
wording was amended subject to transitional provisions specified in article 5 of SI 2007/3174 by section 43 of the Traffic 
Management Act 2004 (c.18); Section 56A was inserted subject to transitional provisions specified in article 4 of SI 
2007/1890 and article 5 of SI 2007/3174 by Section 44 of the Traffic Management Act 2004 (c.18); Section 57 was 
amended by section 52(3) and paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Traffic Management Act 2004 (c. 18); Section 58 was 
amended subject to transitional provisions specified in article 7 of SI 2007/3174 and article 6 of SI 2007/1890 by the Traffic 
Management Act 2004 (c.18) and amended by  paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Traffic Management Act 2004 (c.18); 
Section 58A was inserted subject to transitional provisions specified in article 7 in SI 2007/1890and  article 8 in 2007/3174 
by section 52(1) of the Traffic Management Act 2004 (c.18); Section 59 was amended by section 42 of Traffic Management 
Act 2004 (c.18); Section 60 was amended by paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Traffic Management Act 2004 (c.18); Section 
63 was amended by paragraph 118 of Schedule 1(2) to the Infrastructure Act 2015 (c.7); Section 64 was amended by 
section 52(4) of the Traffic Management Act 2004 (c. 18) and by paragraph 12 of Schedule 7 to the Road Traffic Act 1991 
(c.40); Section 65 was amended by paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Traffic Management Act 2004 (c.18); Section 66 was 
amended by paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Traffic Management Act 2004 (c.18); Section 67 was amended by paragraph 
1 of Schedule 1 to the Traffic Management Act 2004 (c.18); Section 68 was amended by paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the 
Traffic Management Act 2004 (c.18); Section 69 was amended by paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Traffic Management 
Act 2004 (c.18);  Section 70 was amended subject to transitional provisions specified in article 9 in SI 2007/3174 by section 
54 of the Traffic Management Act 2004 (c.18) by section 40(3) of that same Act, and by regulation 17(2) of Street Works 
(Registers, Notices, Directions and Designations) (England) Regulations 2007/1951; Section 71 was amended by paragraph 
1 of Schedule 1 to the Traffic Management Act 2004 (c.18);  Section 73F was added by section 59 of Traffic Management 
Act 2004 (c.18); Section 74 was amended by sections 256(2), (3)(a), (3)(b), (4), (5), (6) and (7) of the Transport Act 2000 
(c.38), sections 40(4) and 52(5) of the Traffic Management Act 2004 (c.18) and by paragraph 119 of Schedule 1(2) to the 
Infrastructure Act 2005 (c.7); Section 74A was amended by section 255(1) of the Transport Act 2000 (c.38), section 40(4) 
of the Traffic Management Act 2004 (c.18) and by paragraphs 120(2) and 120(3) of Schedule 1(2) to the Infrastructure Act 
2015 (c.7); Section 74B was amended by section  255(1) of the Transport Act 2000 (c.38); Section 79 was amended by 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Traffic Management Act 2004 (c.18); Section 83 was amended by paragraph 1 of Schedule 
1 to the Traffic Management Act 2004 (c.18); Section 86 was added by paragraph 121 of Schedule 1(2) to the Infrastructure 
Act 2015 (c.7); Section 88 was amended by sections 52(6) and 40(5) of the Traffic Management Act 2004 (c.18); Section 
89 was amended by section 52(7) of the Traffic Management Act 2004 (c.18) and by paragraph 57(1) of Schedule 1 to the 
Water Consolidation (Consequential Provisions) Act 1991 (c.60); Section 92 was amended by paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
the Traffic Management Act 2004 (c.18); Section 93 was amended by section 49(3) of the Traffic Management Act 2004 
(c.18); Section 95A was inserted subject to transitional provisions specified in article 3 of SI 2007/1890 and article 3 of SI 
2007/3174 by section 41(1) of the Traffic Management Act 2004 (c.18); Section 106 was amended by section 41(2) of the 
Traffic Management Act 2004 (c.18) and by paragraph 122 of Schedule 1(2) of the Infrastructure Act 2015 (c.7). There are 
other amendments to the 1991 Act which are not relevant to this Order. 
(c) 2008 c.29. Section 14 was amended by article 2(2) of the Infrastructure Planning (Waste Water Transfer and Storage) Order 
2012/1645 and by articles 2(2)(a) and 2(2)(b) of the Infrastructure Planning (Radioactive Waste Geological Disposal 
Facilities) Order 2015/949; Section 74 was amended by Localism Act 2011 (c. 20) Schedule 25(20) paragraph 1 and 
Localism Act 2011 (c. 20) Schedule 13(1) paragraph 29(3); Section 83 was amended by paragraphs 35(2) and 35(3) of 
schedule 13(1) and paragraph 1 of section 25(20) to the Localism Act 2011 (c.20); Section 103 was amended by paragraph 
48(4) of Schedule 13(1) and paragraph 1 of Schedule 25(20) to the Localism Act 2011 (c.20); Section 104 was amended by 
paragraphs 49(2),(3)(a),(3)(b), (3)(c), (4), (5)(a), (5)(b), (6) and (7) of Schedule 13(1) to the Localism Act 2011 (c.20) , and 
by section 58(5) of the Marine and Coastal Access Act 2009 (c.23); Section 114 was amended by paragraphs 55(2)(a), 
(2)(b) and (3) of Schedule 13(1) to the Localism Act 2011 (c.20); Section 115 was amended by paragraph 1 of Schedule 
25(20) to the Localism Act 2011 (c.20), sections 160(2), (3), (4), (5), and (6) of the Housing and Planning Act 2016 (c.22); 
Section 120 was amended by section 140 and paragraph 60(2) and (3) of Schedule 13(1) to the Localism Act 2011 (c.20); 
Section 122 was amended by paragraph 62 of Schedule 13(1) to the Localism Act 2011 (c.20); Section 125 was amended by 
paragraph 17 of Schedule 16 to the Housing and Planning Act 2016 (c.22); Section 127 was amended by section 23(2)(a), 
23(2)(b) and 23(2)(c) of the Growth and Infrastructure Act 2013, (c. 27) and by paragraph 64(2) of Schedule 13(1) to the 
Localism Act 2011 (c.20); Section 134 was amended by 142(2)(a) and (3) and paragraph 1 of Schedule 25(21) to the 
Localism Act 2011 (c.20), and paragraphs 6(1)(a) and 6(1)(b) of Schedule 1 to the Housing and Planning Act 2016 
(Compulsory Purchase) (Corresponding Amendments) Regulations 2017/16; Section 138 was amended by sections 
23(4)(a), 23(4)(b) and 23(4)(c) of the Growth of Infrastructure Act 2013 (c.27); Section 152 was amended by paragraph 293 
 
 
 
9
“Abergelli Power Limited” means Abergelli Power Limited (Company No. 8190497) whose 
registered office is at Drax Power Station, Drax, Selby, United Kingdom, YO8 8PH; 
“address” includes any number or address used for the purposes of electronic transmission; 
“apparatus” has the same meaning as in Part 3 of the 1991 Act; 
“ancillary works” means the ancillary works described in Part 2 of Schedule A 
(authorised 
project) [and any other works authorised by the Order] and which are not 
development within 
the meaning of section 32 of the 2008 Act; 
“authorised development” means the development and associated development described in 
Part 1 of Schedule A 1 (authorised project) [and any other development authorised by 
thisOrder], ) which is development within the meaning of section 32 of the 2008 Act; 
“the authorised project” means the authorised development and the ancillary works 
authorised 
by this Order; 
“the “book of reference” means the book of reference with submission document reference 
number 4.3 and which is certified by the decision-maker Secretary of State as the book of 
reference for the purposes of this Order; 
“building” includes any structure or erection or any part of a building, structure or erection; 
“carriageway” has the same meaning as in the 1980 Act; 
“compulsory acquisition notice” means a notice served in accordance with section 134 
of the 
2008 Act; 
“the decision-maker” has the same meaning as in section 103 of the 2008 Act; 
“highway” and “highway authority” have the same meaning as in the 1980 Act; 
“the land plan” means the plan certified as the land plan by the decision-maker for 
the“commence” means beginning to carry out any material operation, as defined in section 
155 of the 2008 Act (which explains when development begins), comprised in or carried out 
for the purposes of the authorised development other than operations consisting of 
environmental surveys and monitoring, investigations for the purpose of assessing ground 
conditions (including investigations necessary for the discharge of requirements 14 (site 
investigation), 15 (mineral resources survey) and 16 (peat management plan)) receipt and 
erection of construction plant and equipment, erection of any temporary means of enclosure, 
the temporary display of site notices or advertisements and the words “commencement” and 
“commenced” and cognate expressions are to be construed accordingly; 
“commissioning” means the process of testing all systems and components of the authorised 
development (which are installed or in relation to which installation is near complete) in order 
to ensure that they, and the authorised development as a whole, functions in accordance with 
the plant design specifications and the undertaker’s operational and safety requirements; 
“date of completion of construction” means the date on which the construction of the 
authorised development is complete including rectification of any construction defects, 
landscaping and reinstatement works; 
“date of final commissioning” means the date on which the authorised development 
commences operation by generating power on a commercial basis but excluding the 
generation of power during commissioning; 
                                                                                                                                       
of Schedule 1 to the Transfer of Tribunal Functions (Lands Tribunal and Miscellaneous Amendments) Order 2009/1307; 
Section 161 was amended by paragraph 4(3) of Schedule 8(1) to the Marine and Coastal Access Act 2009 (c.23) and by 
paragraphs 41(3)(a) and 41(3)(b) of Schedule 4(1) to the Legal Aid, Sentencing and Punishment of Offenders Act 2012 
(Fines on Summary Conviction) Regulations 2015/664. 
 
 
10
“design principles statement” means the design principles statement with submission 
document reference number 10.2 and certified as such by the Secretary of State for the 
purposes of this Order; 
“electronic transmission” means a communication transmitted— 
(a) by means of an electronic communications network; or 
(b) by other means but while in electronic form; 
“the environmental statement” means the environmental statement submitted with submission 
document reference numbers 6.1, 6.2, 6.3, 6.4.0 and which is certified as such by the Secretary 
of State for the purposes of this Order; 
“Order land” means the land shown on the land plan which is within the limits of land 
to be 
acquired and described in the book of reference; 
(a) 1965 c.56. Section 3 was amended by section 70 of, and paragraph 3 of Schedule 
15 to, the Planning and Compensation 
Act 1991(c.34). Section 4 was amended by section 3 of, and Part 1 of Schedule 1 to, 
the Housing (Consequential 
Provisions) Act 1985 (c.71). Section 5 was amended by sections 67 and 80 of, and 
Part 2 of Schedule 18 to, the Planning 
and Compensation Act 1991 (c.34). Subsection (1) of section 11 and sections 3, 31 
and 32 were amended by section 34(1) 
of, and Schedule 4 to, the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 (c.67) and by section 14 of, 
and paragraph 12(1) of Schedule 5 to, 
the Church of England (Miscellaneous Provisions) Measure 2006 (2006 No.1). 
Section 12 was amended by section 56(2) 
of, and Part 1 to Schedule 9 to, the Courts Act 1971 (c.23). Section 13 was amended 
by section 139 of the Tribunals, 
Courts and Enforcement Act 2007 (c.15). Section 20 was amended by section 70 of, 
and paragraph 14 of Schedule 15 to, 
the Planning and Compensation Act 1991 (c.34). Sections 9, 25 and 29 were amended 
by the Statute Law (Repeals) Act 
1973 (c.39). Section 31 was also amended by section 70 of, and paragraph 19 of 
Schedule15 to, the Planning and 
Compensation Act 1991 (c.34) and by section 14 of, and paragraph 12(2) of Schedule 
5 to, the Church of England 
(Miscellaneous Provisions) Measure 2006 (2006 No.1). There are other amendments 
to the 1965 Act which are not relevant 
to this Order. 
(b) 1980 c.66. Section 1(1) was amended by section 21(2) of the New Roads and 
Street Works Act 1991 (c.22); sections 1(2), 
1(3) and1 (4) were amended by section 8 of, and paragraph (1) of Schedule 4 to, the 
Local Government Act 1985 (c.51); 
section 1(2A) was inserted, and section 1(3) was amended, by section 259 (1), (2) and 
(3) of the Greater London Authority 
Act 1999 (c.29); sections 1(3A) and 1(5) were inserted by section 22(1) of, and 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 7 to, the Local 
Government (Wales) Act 1994 (c.19). Section 36(2) was amended by section 4(1) of, 
and paragraphs 47(a) and (b) of 
Schedule 2 to, the Housing (Consequential Provisions) Act 1985 (c.71), by S.I. 
2006/1177, by section 4 of, and paragraph 
 
 
11
45(3) of Schedule 2 to, the Planning (Consequential Provisions) Act 1990 (c.11), by 
section 64(1) (2) and (3) of the 
Transport and Works Act (c.42) and by section 57 of, and paragraph 5 of Part 1 of 
Schedule 6 to, the Countryside and 
Rights of Way Act 2000 (c.37); section 36(3A) was inserted by section 64(4) of the 
Transport and Works Act 1992 and was 
amended by S.I. 2006/1177; section 36(6) was amended by section 8 of, and 
paragraph 7 of Schedule 4 to, the Local 
Government Act 1985 (c.51); and section 36(7) was inserted by section 22(1) of, and 
paragraph 4 of Schedule 7 to, the 
Local Government (Wales) Act 1994 (c.19). Section 329 was amended by section 
112(4) of, and Schedule 18 to, the 
Electricity Act 1989 (c.29) and by section 190(3) of, and Part 1 of Schedule 27 to, the 
Water Act 1989 (c.15). There are 
other amendments to the 1980 Act which are not relevant to this Order. 
(c) 1990 c.8. Section 206(1) was amended by section 192(8) of, and paragraphs 7 and 
11 of Schedule 8 to, the Planning Act 
2008 (c29) (date in force to be appointed see section 241(3), (4)(a), (c) of the 2008 
Act). There are other amendments to the 
1990 Act which are not relevant to this Order. 
(d) 1991 c.22. Section 48(3A) was inserted by section 124 of the Local Transport Act 
2008 (c.26). Sections 79(4), 80(4), and 
83(4) were amended by section 40 of, and Schedule 1 to, the Traffic Management Act 
2004 (c.18). 
(e) 2008 c.29.  
 5 
“the Order limits” means the limits shown on the works plan within which the 
authorised 
project may be carried out; 
“owner”, in relation to land, has the same meaning as in section 7 of the Acquisition 
of Land 
Act 1981(a); 
“relevant planning authority” means— 
(i) the district planning authority for the area in which the land to which the provisions 
of this Order apply is situated unless the provisions relate to the construction or 
alteration of a hazardous waste facility, in which case it means the county planning 
authority; 
(ii) a National Park Authority; 
(iii) the Broads Authority; and 
(iv) the Greater London Authority if the land to which the provisions of this Order or 
requirements apply is situated in Greater London; 
“rights plan” means the plan certified as the rights plan by the decision-maker for the 
purposes 
of this Order; 
“the sections” means the sections shown on the plan certified as the section drawings 
plan by 
the decision-maker for the purposes of this Order; 
“statutory undertaker” means any person falling within section 127(8), 128(5) or 
129(2) of the 
2008 Act; 
 
 
12
“street” means a street within the meaning of section 48 of the 1991 Act, together 
with land on 
the verge of a street or between two carriageways, and includes part of a street; 
“street authority”, in relation to a street, has the same meaning as in Part 3 of the 1991 
Act; 
“tree preservation order” has the meaning given in section 198 of the 1990 Act; 
“the tribunal” means the Lands Chamber of the Upper Tribunal; 
“undertaker” means the person who has the benefit of this Order in accordance with 
section 
156 of the 2008 Act; 
“watercourse” includes all rivers, streams, ditches, drains, canals, cuts, culverts, 
dykes, 
sluices, sewers and passages through which water flows except a public sewer or 
drain; and 
“the works plan” means the plan certified as the works plan by the decision-maker for 
the 
purposes of this Order. 
(2) References in this Order to rights over land include references to rights to do or to 
place and 
maintain, anything in, on or under land or in the air-space above its surface. 
(3) All distances, directions and lengths referred to in this Order are approximate and 
distances 
between points on a work comprised in the authorised project shall be taken to be 
measured along 
that work. 
[NOTE: In the case of off-shore development, which is outside the area of any 
planning authority, 
it will be necessary to identify another appropriate body as the relevant planning 
authority.] 
Development consent etc. granted by the Order 
2. Subject to the provisions of this Order and to the requirements in the Schedule 
(requirements) 
attached to this Order the undertaker is granted— 
(a) development consent for the authorised development; and 
(b) consent for the ancillary works, 
to be carried out within the Order limits. 
(a) 1981 c.67. Section 7 was amended by section 70 of, and paragraph 9 of Schedule 
15 to, the Planning and Compensation 
Act 1991 (c.34). There are other amendments to the 1981 Act which are not relevant 
to this Order.  
 6 
“exhaust gas emission flue stack” means the exhaust gas emission flue stack including 
ancillary support structures, sound proof cladding, and emissions monitoring platforms; 
“footpath” and “footway” have the same meaning as in the 1980 Act; 
“flood consequences assessment” means the flood consequences assessment contained in 
appendix 9.1 of the environmental statement and certified as the flood consequences 
assessment by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order; 
“gas turbine generator” means one gas turbine which drives a single electricity generator for 
the purposes of generating electricity including air inlet filter house, air inlet duct, exhaust 
 
 
13
diffuser, and auxiliaries such as lube oil system, air dryers, fuel gas filter package, instrument 
air system and compressor washing; 
“gross rated electrical output” means the aggregate of gross electrical power as measured at 
the terminals of the generator in accordance with standards agreed with the regulating 
authority under the Environmental Permitting (England and Wales) Regulations 2016; 
“hedgerow plan” means the hedgerow plan with submission document reference 2.9 and 
which is certified as the hedgerow plan by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this 
Order; 
“highway” and “highway authority” have the same meaning as in the 1980 Act; 
“land plans” means the plans with submission document reference number 2.2 and which are 
certified as the land plans by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order; 
“limits of deviation” means in respect of numbered works 1, 2 and 3 the outer limits of the 
corresponding numbered area shown on the works plans; 
“maintain” includes inspect, repair, adjust, alter, remove, refurbish, reconstruct, replace and 
improve any part, but not the whole of, the authorised development but only insofar as such 
activities are unlikely to give rise to any materially new or different environmental effects 
from those assessed in the environmental statement and “maintenance” and “maintaining” are 
to be construed accordingly; 
“National Grid” means National Grid Electricity Transmission plc (Company Registration 
Number 02366977) whose registered office is at 1 to 3 Strand, London, WE2N 5EH and/or 
National Grid Gas plc (Company Registration Number 02006000) whose registered office is 
at 1 to 3 Strand, London WC2N 5EH as the context requires; 
“Order land” means the land which is required for, or is required to facilitate, or is incidental 
to, or is affected by, the authorised development shown on the land plans and described in the 
book of reference; 
“Order limits” means the limits shown on the works plans; 
“outline construction environment management plan” means the outline construction 
environment management plan contained in appendix 3.1 of the environmental statement and 
which is certified as the outline construction environmental management plan by the Secretary 
of State for the purposes of this Order; 
“outline construction staff travel plan” means the outline construction staff travel plan 
contained in appendix 3.3b of the environment statement and which is certified as the outline 
construction staff travel plan by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order; 
“outline construction traffic management plan” means the outline construction traffic 
management plan contained in appendix 3.3a of the environmental statement and which is 
certified as the outline construction traffic management plan by the Secretary of State for the 
purposes of this Order; 
“outline drainage strategy” means the outline drainage strategy contained in appendix E of the 
flood consequences assessment and which is certified as the outline drainage strategy by the 
Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order; 
“outline landscape and ecological mitigation strategy” means the outline landscape and 
ecological mitigation strategy contained in appendix 3.4 of the environmental statement and 
which is certified as the outline landscape and ecological mitigation strategy by the Secretary 
of State for the purposes of this Order; 
“outline lighting strategy” means the outline lighting strategy contained in appendix 3.5 of the 
environmental statement and which is certified as the outline lighting strategy by the Secretary 
of State for the purposes of this Order; 
“outline surface water management plan” means the outline surface water management plan in 
appendix 3.2 of the environmental statement and which is certified as the outline surface water 
management plan by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order; 
 
 
14
“owner”, in relation to land, has the same meaning as in section 7 of the Acquisition of Land 
Act 1981(a); 
“relevant planning authority” means the City and County of Swansea Council in relation to 
land in its area; 
“requirements” means those matters set out in Schedule 2 to this Order; 
“rights of way, streets and access plans” means the plans with submission document reference 
number 2.4 and which is certified as the rights of way, streets and access plan by the Secretary 
of State for the purposes of this Order; 
“statutory undertaker” means any person falling within section 127(8) of the 2008 Act and 
shall include a public communications provider as defined by the Communications Act 2003c; 
“street” means a street within the meaning of section 48 of the 1991 Act, together with land on 
the verge of a street or between two carriageways, and includes any footpath and “street” 
includes any part of a street; 
“street authority”, in relation to a street, has the same meaning as in Part 3 of the 1991 Act; 
“traffic authority” has the same meaning as in the 1984 Act; 
“tribunal” means the Lands Chamber of the Upper Tribunal; 
“undertaker” means Abergelli Power Limited or any other person who for the time being has 
the benefit of this Order in accordance with articles 6 and 7 of this Order; 
“watercourse” includes all rivers, streams, creeks, ditches, drains, canals, cuts, culverts, dykes, 
sluices, sewers and passages through which water flows except a public sewer or drain; and 
“works plans” means sheet 1 of 2 and sheet 2 of 2 of the plans with submission document 
reference number 2.3 and which are certified as the works plans by the Secretary of State for 
the purposes of this Order. 
(2) References in this Order to rights over land include references to rights to do or to place and 
maintain anything in, on or under land or in the air–space above its surface and references in this 
Order to the imposition of restrictions are references to restrictive covenants over land which 
interfere with the interests or rights of another and are for the benefit of land which is acquired 
under this Order or over which rights are created and acquired under this Order or is otherwise 
comprised in this Order. 
(3) All distances, directions and lengths referred to in this Order are approximate and distances 
between lines and/or points on a numbered work comprised in the authorised development and 
shown on the works plan and rights of way, streets and access plan are to be taken to be measured 
along that work. 
(4) All areas described in square metres in the book of reference are approximate. 
(5) References in this Order to numbered works are references to the works comprising the 
authorised development as numbered in Schedule 1 (authorised development) and shown on the 
works plans. 
(6) A reference to numbered work 1 means 1A to 1F (inclusive) and a reference to numbered 
work 5 means 5A and 5B comprising part of the authorised development as numbered in Schedule 
1 (authorised development). 
(7) References in this Order to points identified by letters or numbers are to be construed as 
points so lettered or numbered on the rights of way, streets and access plan. 
(8) The expression “includes” is to be construed without limitation. 
(9) References to any statutory body include that body’s successor bodies as from time to time 
have jurisdiction over the authorised development. 
                                                                                                                                       
(a) 1981. c.67. Section 7 was amended by paragraph 9 of Schedule 15(I) to the Planning and Compensation Act 1991 (c.34). 
There are other amendments to this section which are not relevant to this Order. 
 
 
15
PART 2 
PRINCIPAL POWERS 
Development consent etc. granted by the Order 
3.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Order and to the requirements, the undertaker is 
granted development consent for the authorised development to be carried out within the Order 
limits. 
(2) Subject to paragraph (3), each numbered work may only be situated within the numbered 
area shown on the works plans. 
(3) In constructing each numbered work, the undertaker may deviate within the corresponding 
numbered area(s) shown on the works plans up to the limits of deviation. 
Maintenance of authorised projectdevelopment 
4.3. The undertaker may at any time maintain —(1) The undertaker may at any time maintain 
the authorised project, development except to the extent that this Order or an agreement made 
under this Order,  provides otherwise. 
Benefit of Order 
4. Subject to article 5 (consent to transfer benefit of Order), the provisions of articles [ 
] and [ ] 
[specify relevant articles] shall have effect solely for the benefit of [specify person, 
body or class 
of person]. 
[NOTE: This article is required where provisions of the Order are specific to a named 
undertaker 
or class of undertaker (see section 156(2) of the 2008 Act).] 
Consent to transfer benefit of Order 
5.—(1) The undertaker may, with the consent of the [specify person or body]— 
(a) transfer to another person (“the transferee”) any or all of the benefit of the 
provisions of 
this Order and such related statutory rights as may be agreed between the undertaker 
and 
the transferee; or 
(b) grant to another person (“the lessee”) for a period agreed between the undertaker 
and the 
lessee any or all of the benefit of the provisions of this Order and such related 
statutory 
rights as may be so agreed. 
(2) This article only authorises the carrying out of maintenance works within the Order limits. 
Operation of authorised development 
5.—(1) The undertaker is authorised to use and operate the generating station comprised in the 
authorised development. 
(2) This article does not relieve the undertaker of any requirement to obtain any permit or 
licence or any obligation under any legislation that may be required to authorise the operation of 
the generating station. 
Benefit of this Order 
 
 
16
6. Subject to article 7 (consent to transfer benefit of the Order), the provisions of this Order 
have effect solely for the benefit of the undertaker. 
Consent to transfer benefit of the Order 
7.—(1) Subject to paragraph (4), the undertaker may— 
(a) transfer to another person (“the transferee”) any or all of the benefit of the provisions of this 
Order (including any of the numbered works) and such related statutory rights as may be 
agreed in writing between the undertaker and the transferee; or 
(b) grant to another person (“the lessee”) for a period agreed between the undertaker and the 
lessee any or all of the benefit of the provisions of this Order (including any of the numbered 
works) and such related statutory rights as may be so agreed. 
(2) (2) Where an agreement a transfer or grant has been made in accordance with paragraph (1) 
references in this Order to the undertaker, except in paragraph (3), shall  include references to the 
transferee or the lessee. 
(3) (3) The exercise by a person of any benefits or rights conferred in accordance with any 
transfer or grant under paragraph (1) shall be or grant under paragraph (1) is subject to the same 
restrictions, liabilities and obligations asrestrictions, liabilities and obligations as would apply 
under this Order if those benefits or rights were exercised by the undertaker. 
(4) The consent of the Secretary of State is required for the exercise of the powers of paragraph 
(1) except where— 
(a) the transferee or lessee is the holder of a licence under section 6 of the Electricity Act 1989(a) 
or section 7 of the Gas Act 1986(b); or 
(b) the time limits for all claims for compensation in respect of the acquisition of land or effects 
upon land under this Order have elapsed and— 
(i) no such claims have been made; 
(ii) any such claims that have been made have all been compromised or withdrawn; 
(iii) compensation has been paid in final settlement of all such claims; 
(iv) payment of compensation into court in lieu of settlement of all such claims has taken 
place; or 
(v) it has been determined by a tribunal or court of competent jurisdiction in respect of 
all claims that no compensation is payable. 
(5) Where the consent of the Secretary of State is not required under paragraph (4), the 
undertaker must notify the Secretary of State in writing before transferring or granting a benefit 
referred to in paragraph (1). 
(6) The notification referred to in paragraph (5) must state— 
(a) the name and contact details of the person to whom the benefit of the powers will be 
transferred or granted; 
(b) subject to paragraph (7), the date on which the transfer will take effect; 
(c) the powers to be transferred or granted; 
(d) pursuant to paragraph (3), the restrictions, liabilities and obligations that will apply to the 
person exercising the powers transferred or granted; and 
                                                                                                                                       
(a) 1989 c.29. Section 6 was amended by section 30 of the Utilities Act 2000 (c.27), sections 89(3), 136(1), 136(2), 145(5), 
145(6), and 145(7), and paragraph 5 of Schedule 19 and paragraph 1 of Schedule 23(1) to the Energy Act 2004 (c.20), 
articles 6(2)(a), 6(2)(b), 6(3), 6(4) of the Electricity and Gas (Smart Meters Licensable Activity) Order 2012/2400, 
regulation 19 of the Electricity and Gas (Internal Markets) Regulations 2011/2704, and by paragraph 2 of Schedule 8 to the 
Climate Change Act 2008 (c.27). 
(b) 1986 c.44. A new section 7 was substituted by section 5 of the Gas Act 1995 (c.45), and was further amended by sections 
3(2) and 76(3) and 76(4) of and paragraph 4 of schedule 6(I) and paragraph 1 of schedule 8 to the Utilities Act 2000 (c.27), 
regulation 18(2) of the Electricity and Gas (Internal Markets) Regulations 2011/2704, section 149(5) of the Energy Act 
2004 (c.20), and regulation 18 of the Electricity and Gas (Internal Markets) Regulations 2011/2704. 
 
 
17
(e) where relevant, a plan showing the works or areas to which the transfer or grant relates. 
(7) The date specified under paragraph (6)(b)7(6)(b) must not be earlier than the expiry of five 
working days from the date of the receipt of the notice. 
(8) The notice given under paragraph (6) must be signed by the undertaker and the person to 
whom the benefit of the powers will be transferred or granted as specified in that notice. 
PART 3 
STREETS 
Power to alter layout etc. of streets 
8.—(1) The undertaker may for the purposes of the authorised development alter the layout of 
or carry out any works in the street in the case of permanent works as specified in column (2) of 
Part 1 of Schedule 3 (permanent alteration of layout) in the manner specified in relation to that 
street in column (3) and in the case of temporary works as specified in column (2) of Part 2 of 
Schedule 3 (temporary alteration of layout) in the manner specified in relation to that street in 
column (3). 
(2) Without prejudice to the specific powers conferred by paragraph (1) but subject to 
paragraphs (3) and (4), the undertaker may, for the purposes of constructing, operating and 
maintaining the authorised development alter the layout of any street within the Order land and, 
without limitation on the scope of this paragraph, the undertaker may— 
(a) alter the level or increase the width of any kerb, footway, cycle track or verge; 
(b) make and maintain passing place(s). 
(3) The undertaker must restore any street that has been temporarily altered under this article to 
the reasonable satisfaction of the street authority. 
(4) The powers conferred by paragraph (2) must not be exercised without the consent of the 
street authority. 
(5) Paragraphs (3) and (4) do not apply where the undertaker is the street authority for a street in 
which the works are being carried out. 
Street works 
9.—(1) The undertaker may, for the purposes of the authorised development, enter on so much 
of any of the streets specified in Schedule 4 (streets subject to street works) as is within the Order 
land and may— 
(a) break up or open the street, or any sewer, drain or tunnel under it; 
(b) drill, tunnel or bore under the street; 
would apply under this Order if those benefits or rights were exercised by the 
undertaker. 
Application and modification of legislative provisions 
6.—(1) Subject to the modifications set out in paragraph (2) the following provisions 
of the 
[insert short title of the relevant Act] shall be incorporated in this Order— 
(a) section[s] X [specify relevant section(s)]. 
(2) The modifications are: [insert relevant modifications]. 
(3) In construing the [insert short title of the relevant Act] as incorporated the 
following 
expressions shall have the following meanings: [insert relevant expressions and 
definitions] 
Defence to proceedings in respect of statutory nuisance 
 
 
18
7.—(1) Where proceedings are brought under section 82(1) of the Environmental 
Protection Act 
1990(a) (summary proceedings by person aggrieved by statutory nuisance) in relation 
to a 
nuisance falling within paragraph (g) of section 79(1) of that Act (noise emitted from 
premises so 
as to be prejudicial to health or a nuisance) no order shall be made, and no fine may 
be imposed, 
under section 82(2) of that Act if— 
(a) the defendant shows that the nuisance— 
(i) relates to premises used by the undertaker for the purposes of or in connection with 
the construction or maintenance of the authorised project and that the nuisance is 
attributable to the carrying out of the authorised project in accordance with a notice 
served under section 60 (control of noise on construction site), or a consent given 
(a) 1990 c.43. There are amendments to this Act which are not relevant to this Order.  
 7 
under section 61 (prior consent for work on construction site) or 65 (noise exceeding 
registered level), of the Control of Pollution Act 1974(a); or 
(ii) is a consequence of the construction or maintenance of the authorised project and 
that it cannot reasonably be avoided; or 
(b) the defendant shows that the nuisance— 
(i) relates to premises used by the undertaker for the purposes of or in connection with 
the use of the authorised project and that the nuisance is attributable to the use of the 
authorised project which is being used in accordance with a scheme of monitoring 
and attenuation of noise agreed with the Commission as described in requirement 25; 
or 
(ii) is a consequence of the use of the authorised project and that it cannot reasonably 
be 
avoided. 
(2) Section 61(9) (consent for work on construction site to include statement that it 
does not of 
itself constitute a defence to proceedings under section 82 of the Environmental 
Protection Act 
1990) of the Control of Pollution Act 1974 and section 65(8) of that Act 
(corresponding provision 
in relation to consent for registered noise level to be exceeded), shall not apply where 
the consent 
relates to the use of premises by the undertaker for the purposes of or in connection 
with the 
construction or maintenance of the authorised project. 
Street works 
8.—(1) The undertaker may, for the purposes of the authorised project, enter on so 
much of any 
of the streets specified in Schedule B (streets subject to street works) as is within the 
Order limits 
and may— 
(a) break up or open the street, or any sewer, drain or tunnel under it; 
(b) tunnel or bore under the street; 
(c) (c) place and keep apparatus in the street; 
(d) (d) maintain apparatus in the street or change its position or remove it;and 
 
 
19
(e) carry out all necessary works required for the execution of the works required under article 8 
(power to alter layout, etc. of streets) including removal and relocation or reinstatement of 
drainage, fence lines and signage and pruning or removal of vegetation to improve visibility; 
and 
(f) (e) execute any works required for or incidental to any works referred to in sub-paragraphs 
(a), (b), (c) and (d, (d) and (e). 
(2) (2) The authority given by paragraph (1) is a statutory right for the purposes of sections 
48(3) (streets, street works and undertakers) and 51(1) (prohibition of unauthorised street works) 
of the 1991 Act. 
(3) (3) The Where the undertaker is not the street authority, the provisions of sections 54 to 106 
of the 1991 Act apply to any street works carried out under paragraph (1). 
(4) In this article “apparatus” has the same meaning as in Part 3 of the 1991 Act. 
[NOTE: This article should not be used for the purposes of authorising street works 
that affect a 
trunk road (as defined in the 1980 Act); no trunk roads should be specified in 
Schedule B (streets 
subject to street works). For any street works affecting a trunk road the undertaker 
should make 
an application for a licence under section 50 of the 1991 Act.] 
Stopping up of streets 
9.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this article, the undertaker may, in connection 
with the 
carrying out of the authorised project, stop up each of the streets specified in columns 
(1) and (2) 
of Parts 1 and 2 of Schedule C (streets to be stopped up) to the extent specified, by 
reference to the 
letters and numbers shown on the works plan, in column (3) of those Parts of that 
Schedule. 
(a) 1974 c.40. Sections 61(9) and 65(8) were amended by section 162 of, and 
paragraph 15 of Schedule 3 to, the 
Environmental Protection Act 1990, c.25. There are other amendments to the 1974 
Act which are not relevant to this Order.  
 8 
(2) No street specified in columns (1) and (2) of Part 1 of Schedule C (being a street 
to be 
stopped up for which a substitute is to be provided) shall be wholly or partly stopped 
up under this 
article unless— 
(a) the new street to be substituted for it, which is specified in column (4) of that Part 
of that 
Schedule, has been completed to the reasonable satisfaction of the street authority and 
is 
open for use; or 
(b) a temporary alternative route for the passage of such traffic as could have used the 
street 
to be stopped up is first provided and subsequently maintained by the undertaker, to 
the 
reasonable satisfaction of the street authority, between the commencement and 
termination points for the stopping up of the street until the completion and opening 
of 
the new street in accordance with sub-paragraph (a). 
 
 
20
(3) No street specified in columns (1) and (2) of Part 2 of Schedule C (being a street 
to be 
stopped up for which no substitute is to be provided) shall be wholly or partly stopped 
up under 
this article unless the condition specified in paragraph (4) is satisfied in relation to all 
the land 
which abuts on either side of the street to be stopped up. 
(4) The condition referred to in paragraph (3) is that— 
(a) the undertaker is in possession of the land; or 
(b) there is no right of access to the land from the street concerned; or 
(c) there is reasonably convenient access to the land otherwise than from the street 
concerned; or 
(d) the owners and occupiers of the land have agreed to the stopping up. 
(5) Where a street has been stopped up under this article— 
(a) all rights of way over or along the street so stopped up shall be extinguished; and 
(b) the undertaker may appropriate and use for the purposes of the authorised project 
so 
much of the site of the street as is bounded on both sides by land owned by the 
undertaker. 
(6) Any person who suffers loss by the suspension or extinguishment of any private 
right of way 
under this article shall be entitled to compensation to be determined, in case of 
dispute, under Part 
1 of the 1961 Act. 
(7) This article is subject to article 32 (apparatus etc. of statutory undertakers). 
Public rights of way 
10.—(1) With effect from the [date of publication of this Order] [the date of 
certification by the 
local highway authority that the agreed alternative right of way has been created to the 
standard 
defined in the implementation plan], [the section of] the public right of way (being a 
[insert one 
of: footpath/bridleway/byway open to all traffic/restricted byway]) shown marked in 
[red] between 
the points [A] and [B] on the rights plan is extinguished. 
(2) With effect from [that same date] [insert later date] an alternative section of [insert 
description of right of way of that same type] as marked in [green] between the points 
[C] and [D] 
on the rights plan is created. 
(3) In this article— 
“implementation plan” means the written plan agreed between the undertaker and the 
local 
highway authority for creation of the agreed alternative right of way to the defined 
standard; 
and 
“local highway authority” has the same meaning as in section 329(1) of the 1980 Act. 
Temporary stopping up of streets 
11.—(1) The undertaker, during and for the purposes of carrying out the authorised 
project, may 
temporarily stop up, alter or divert any street and may for any reasonable time—  
 
 
21
 9 
Construction and maintenance of new or altered means of access 
10.—(1) Those parts of each means of access specified in Part 1 of Schedule 5 (Access) to be 
constructed under this Order must be completed to the reasonable satisfaction of the highway 
authority and must be maintained by and at the expense of the undertaker for a period of 12 
months from completion and from the expiry of that period by and at the expense of the highway 
authority. 
(2) Those parts of each means of access specified in Part 2 of Schedule 5 (Access) to be 
constructed under this Order and which are not intended to be a public highway must be 
completed to the reasonable satisfaction of the street authority and must be maintained by and at 
the expense of the undertaker for a period of 12 months from completion and from the expiry of 
that period by and at the expense of the street authority. 
(3) Those restoration works carried out pursuant to article 8(3) (power to alter layout, etc., of 
streets) identified in Part 3 of Schedule 5 (Access) must be completed to the reasonable 
satisfaction of the highway authority and must be maintained by and at the expense of the 
undertaker for a period of 12 months from completion and from the expiry of that period by and at 
the expense of the highway authority. 
(4) Those restoration works carried out pursuant to article 8(3) (power to alter layout, etc., of 
streets) identified in Part 4 of Schedule 5 (Access) which are not intended to be a public highway 
must be completed to the reasonable satisfaction of the street authority and must be maintained by 
and at the expense of the street authority. 
(5) In any action against the undertaker in respect of loss or damage resulting from any failure 
by it to maintain a street under this article, it is a defence (without prejudice to any other defence 
or the application of the law relating to contributory negligence) to prove that the undertaker had 
taken such care as in all the circumstances was reasonably required to secure that the part of the 
street to which the action relates was not dangerous to traffic. 
(6) For the purposes of a defence under paragraph (5), a court is, in particular, to have regard to 
the following matters— 
(a) the character of the street including the traffic which was reasonably to be expected to use it; 
(b) the standard of maintenance appropriate for a street of that character and used by such traffic; 
(c) the state of repair in which a reasonable person would have expected to find the street; 
(d) whether the undertaker knew, or could reasonably have been expected to know, that the 
condition of the part of the street to which the action relates was likely to cause danger to 
users of the street; and 
(e) where the undertaker could not reasonably have been expected to repair that part of the street 
before the cause of action arose, what warning notices of its condition had been displayed. 
but for the purposes of such a defence it is not relevant that the undertaker had arranged for a 
competent person to carry out or supervise the maintenance of that part of the street to which the 
action relates unless it is also proved that the undertaker had given that person proper instructions 
with regard to the maintenance of the street and that those instructions had been carried out. 
Temporary prohibition or restriction of use of streets 
11.—(1) The undertaker, during and for the purposes of carrying out the authorised 
development, may temporarily alter, divert, prohibit the use of or restrict the use of any street and 
may for any reasonable time— 
(a) (a) divert the traffic from the street; and 
(b) (b) subject to paragraph (3)2), prevent all persons from passing along the street., prevent all 
persons from passing along the street. 
 
 
22
(2) Without prejudice to the scope of paragraph (1), the undertaker may use any street where the 
use has been prohibited or restricted under the powers conferred by this article and within the 
Order land as a temporary working site. 
(3) (2) The undertaker shall must provide reasonable access for non–motorised users (including 
pedestrians ) going to or from premises abutting a street affected by the temporary stopping up, 
alteration or , diversion of a street under, prohibition or restriction of a street under this article if 
there would otherwise be no such access. 
(4) Without prejudice to the generality of paragraph (1), the undertaker may temporarily alter, 
divert, prohibit the use of or restrict the use of the streets specified in columns (1) and (2) of 
Schedule 6 (temporary prohibition or restriction of the use of streets) to the extent specified in 
column (3) of that Schedule. 
(5) The undertaker must not temporarily alter, divert, prohibit the use of or restrict the use of— 
(a) any street specified in paragraph (4) without first consulting the street authority; and 
(b) any other street without the consent of the street authority which may attach reasonable 
conditions to any consent. 
Stopping up of Streets 
12.—(1) The undertaker may, in connection with the carrying out of the authorised 
development, stop up each of the streets specified in columns (1) and (2) of Schedule 7 (Streets 
to be stopped up) to the extent specified, by reference to the letters and numbers shown on the 
rights of way, streets and access plan, in column (3) of that Schedule. 
(2) No street specified in columns (1) and (2) of Schedule 7 (being a street to be stopped up) 
shall be wholly or partially stopped up under this article unless the condition specified in 
paragraph (3) is satisfied in relation to all the land which abuts on either side of the street to be 
stopped up. 
(3) The condition referred to in paragraph (2) is that— 
(a) the undertaker is in possession of the land: or 
(b) there is no right of access to the land from the street concerned; or 
(c) there is reasonably convenient access to the land otherwise than from the street concerned; or 
(d) the owners and any lessee of the land have agreed to the stopping up. 
(4) Where a street has been stopped up under this article— 
(a) all rights of way over or along the street so stopped up shall be extinguished; and 
(b) the undertaker may appropriate and use for the purposes of the authorised development so 
much of the street as is stopped up under paragraph (1). 
(5) Any person who suffers loss by the suspension or extinguishment of any private right of way 
under this article shall be entitled to compensation to be determined, in case of dispute, under Part 
1 of the 1961 Act. 
(6) This article is subject to article 32 (apparatus and rights of statutory undertakers in streets). 
Access to works 
13.—(1) The undertaker may, for the purposes of the authorised development— 
(a) form and layout the permanent means of access, or improve existing means of access, in the 
locations specified in Part 1 of Schedule 3 (streets subject to permanent and temporary 
alteration of layout); 
(b) form and layout the temporary means of access in the locations specified in Part 2 of 
Schedule 3 (streets subject to permanent and temporary alteration of layout); and 
(c) with the approval of the relevant planning authority after consultation with the highway 
authority, form and lay out such other means of access or improve the existing means of 
 
 
23
access, at such locations within the Order land as the undertaker reasonably requires for the 
purposes of the authorised development. 
Agreements with street authorities 
14.—(1) A street authority and the undertaker may enter into agreements with respect to— 
this article if there would otherwise be no such access. 
(3) Without prejudice to the generality of paragraph (1), the undertaker may 
temporarily stop up, 
alter or divert the streets specified in columns (1) and (2) of Schedule D (streets to be 
temporarily 
stopped up) to the extent specified, by reference to the letters and numbers shown on 
the works 
plan, in column (3) of that Schedule. 
(4) The undertaker shall not temporarily stop up, alter or divert— 
(a) any street specified as mentioned in paragraph (3) without first consulting the 
street 
authority; and 
(b) any other street without the consent of the street authority which may attach 
reasonable 
conditions to any consent. 
(5) Any person who suffers loss by the suspension of any private right of way under 
this article 
shall be entitled to compensation to be determined, in case of dispute, under Part 1 of 
the 1961 
Act. 
Access to works 
12. The undertaker may, for the purposes of the authorised project— 
(a) form and lay out means of access, or improve existing means of access, in the 
location 
specified in columns (1) and (2) of Schedule E (access to works); and 
(b) with the approval of the relevant planning authority after consultation with the 
highway 
authority, form and lay out such other means of access or improve existing means of 
access, at such locations within the Order limits as the undertaker reasonably requires 
for 
the purposes of the authorised project. 
Agreements with street authorities 
13.—(1) A street authority and the undertaker may enter into agreements with respect 
to— 
(a) (a) the construction of any new street including any structure carrying the street over or; 
(b) under a [insert description of development] authorised the strengthening, improvement, repair 
or reconstruction of any street under the powers conferred by this Order; 
(c) (b) the maintenance of the structure of any bridge or tunnel carrying a street over or under a; 
[insert description of development]; 
(d) (c) any stopping up, alteration or , diversion , prohibition or restriction in the use of a street 
authorised by this Order; or 
(e) (d) the carrying out in the street of any of the works referred to in article 8(1) (street 
works10(1) (construction and maintenance of new or altered means of access). 
(2) Such an agreement may, without prejudice to the generality of paragraph (1)— 
 
 
24
(a) make provision for the street authority to carry out any function under this Order 
which 
relates to the street in question; 
(2) Such an agreement may, without prejudice to the generality of paragraph (1)— 
(a) make provision for the street authority to carry out any function under this Order which 
relates to the street in question; 
(b) (b) include an agreement between the undertaker and street authority specifying a reasonable 
time for the completion of the works; and 
(c) contain such terms as to payment and otherwise as the parties consider 
appropriate. 
Discharge of water 
14.—(1) The undertaker may use any watercourse or any public sewer or drain for the 
drainage 
of water in connection with the carrying out or maintenance of the authorised project 
and for that 
purpose may lay down, take up and alter pipes and may, on any land within the Order 
limits, make 
openings into, and connections with, the watercourse, public sewer or drain.  
 10 
(c) contain such terms as to payment and otherwise as the parties consider appropriate. 
Traffic Regulation 
15.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this article and the consent of the traffic authority in 
whose area the road concerned is situated, the undertaker may, in so far as may be expedient or 
necessary for the purposes of or in connection with the construction of the authorised 
development or any other development necessary for the authorised development that takes place 
within the Order land, at any time prior to when the authorised development first becomes 
operational— 
(a) permit, prohibit or restrict the stopping, parking, waiting, loading or unloading of vehicles on 
any road; and 
(b) make provision as to the direction or priority of vehicular traffic on any road, 
either at all times or at times, on days or during such periods as may be specified by the 
undertaker. 
(2) The undertaker must not exercise the powers under paragraph (1) of this article unless it 
has— 
(a) given not less than 4 weeks’ notice in writing of its intention so to do to the traffic authority 
in whose area the road is situated; and 
(b) advertised its intention in such manner as the traffic authority may specify in writing within 7 
days of its receipt of notice of the undertaker’s intention in the case of sub–paragraph (a). 
(3) Any prohibition, restriction or other provision made by the undertaker under article 11 or 
paragraph (1) of this article has effect as if duly made by, as the case may be— 
(a) the traffic authority in whose area the road is situated as a traffic regulation order under the 
1984 Act; or 
(b) the local authority in whose area the road is situated as an order under section 32 of the 1984 
Act, 
 
 
25
and the instrument by which it is effected is deemed to be a traffic order for the purposes of 
Schedule 7 to the Traffic Management Act 2004 (road traffic contraventions subject to civil 
enforcement)(a). 
(4) In this article— 
(a) subject to sub–paragraph (b) expressions used in this article and in the 1984 Act have the 
same meaning; and 
(b) a “road” means a road that is a public highway maintained by and at the expense of the traffic 
authority. 
(5) If the traffic authority fails to notify the undertaker of its decision within eight weeks of 
receiving an application for consent under paragraph (1) the traffic authority is deemed to have 
granted consent. 
PART 4 
SUPPLEMENTAL POWERS 
Discharge of water 
16.—(1) The undertaker may use any watercourse or any public sewer or drain for the drainage 
of water in connection with the carrying out or maintenance of the authorised development and 
for that purpose may lay down, take up and alter pipes and may, on any land within the Order 
land, make openings into, and connections with, the watercourse, public sewer or drain. 
(2) (2) Any dispute arising from the making of connections to or the use of a public sewer or 
drain by the undertaker pursuant to paragraph (1) shall must be determined as if it were a dispute 
under section 106 of the Water Industry Act 1991(a) (right to communicate with public 
sewers).1991(b) (right to communicate with public sewers). 
(3) (3) The undertaker shall must not discharge any water into any watercourse, public sewer or 
drain except with the consent of the person to whom it belongs; and such consent may be given 
subject to such terms and conditions as that person may reasonably impose, but shall not be 
unreasonablymust not be unreasonably withheld. 
withheld. 
(4) (4) The undertaker shall not make any opening into any public sewer or drain except—must 
not make any opening into any public sewer or drain except— 
(a) (a) in accordance with plans approved by the person to whom the sewer or drain belongs,  but 
such approval shall must not be unreasonably withheld; and 
(b) where that person has been given the opportunity to supervise the making of the 
opening. 
(5) The undertaker shall not, in carrying out or maintaining works pursuant to this 
article, 
damage or interfere with the bed or banks of any watercourse forming part of a main 
river. 
(6) The undertaker shall take such steps as are reasonably practicable to secure that 
any water 
discharged into a watercourse or public sewer or drain pursuant to this article is as 
free as may be 
practicable from gravel, soil or other solid substance, oil or matter in suspension. 
(b) where that person has been given the opportunity to supervise the making of the opening. 
                                                                                                                                       
(a) 2004 c.18. There are amendments to this Act not relevant to this Order. 
(b) 1991 c.56. Section 106 was amended by sections 43(2) and 35(8)(a) and paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 to the Competition and 
Service (Utilities) Act 1992 (c.43) and sections 99(2), (3), (4), (5)(a), (5)(b),(5)(c) and 36(2) of the Water Act 2003 (c.37). 
 
 
26
(5) The undertaker must take such steps as are reasonably practicable to secure that any water 
discharged into a watercourse or public sewer or drain pursuant to this article is as free as may be 
practicable from gravel, soil or other solid substance, oil or matter in suspension. 
(6) (7) This article does not authorise the entry into controlled waters of any matter whose entry 
orany water discharge activities or groundwater activities for which an environmental permit 
would be required pursuant to regulation 12(1) of the Environmental Permitting (England and 
Wales) Regulations 2016(a). 
(7) In this article— 
discharge into controlled waters is prohibited by section 85(1), (2) or (3) of the Water 
Resources 
Act 1991(b) (offences of polluting water). 
(8) In this article— 
(a) (a) “public sewer or drain” means a sewer or drain which belongs to  
the Homes andCommunities Agency, the Environment Agency, a harbour authority 
within the meaning 
of section 57 of the Harbours Act 1964(c) (interpretation)Natural Resources Wales, an internal 
drainage board, a joint planning board, a local authority, a National Park Authority, a sewerage 
undertaker or an urban development corporation; and 
(b) (b) other expressions, excluding watercourse, used both in this article and in the Water 
Resources Act 1991 (b) have the same meaning as in that Act. 
Protective work to buildings 
15.—(1) Subject to the following provisions of this article, the undertaker may at its 
own 
expense carry out such protective works to any building lying within the Order limits 
as the 
undertaker considers necessary or expedient. 
(2) Protective works may be carried out— 
(a) at any time before or during the carrying out in the vicinity of the building of any 
part of 
the authorised project; or 
(b) after the completion of that part of the authorised project in the vicinity of the 
building at 
any time up to the end of the period of 5 years beginning with the day on which that 
part 
of the authorised project is first opened for use. 
(3) For the purpose of determining how the functions under this article are to be 
exercised the 
undertaker may enter and survey any building falling within paragraph (1) and any 
land within its 
curtilage. 
(4) For the purpose of carrying out protective works under this article to a building the 
undertaker may (subject to paragraphs (5) and (6))— 
(a) enter the building and any land within its curtilage; and 
(a) 1991 c.56. Section 106 was amended by sections 36(2) and 99 of the Water Act 
2003 (c.37). There are other amendments 
to this section which are not relevant to this Order. 
                                                                                                                                       
(a) S.I. 2016/1154.   
(b) 1991 c.57 as amended by S.I. 2009/3104. 
 
 
27
(b) 1991 c.57. 1991 c.57. Section 85(1) was amended by paragraphs 21(1) and (2) of 
Part 1 of Schedule 21 to S.I. 2007/3538. 
(c) 1964 c.40. Paragraph 9B was inserted into Schedule 2 by the Transport and Works 
Act 1992 (c.42), section 63(1) and 
Schedule 3, paragraph 9(1) and (5). There are other amendments to the 1964 Act 
which are not relevant to this Order.  
 11 
(b) where the works cannot be carried out reasonably conveniently without entering 
land 
which is adjacent to the building but outside its curtilage, enter the adjacent land (but 
not 
any building erected on it). 
(5) Before exercising— 
(a) a right under paragraph (1) to carry out protective works to a building; 
(b) a right under paragraph (3) to enter a building and land within its curtilage; 
(c) a right under paragraph (4)(a) to enter a building and land within its curtilage; or 
(d) a right under paragraph (4)(b) to enter land, 
the undertaker shall, except in the case of emergency, serve on the owners and 
occupiers of the 
building or land not less than 14 days’ notice of its intention to exercise that right and, 
in a case 
falling within sub-paragraph (a) or (c), specifying the protective works proposed to be 
carried out. 
(6) Where a notice is served under paragraph (5)(a), (c) or (d), the owner or occupier 
of the 
building or land concerned may, by serving a counter-notice within the period of 10 
days 
beginning with the day on which the notice was served, require the question whether 
it is 
necessary or expedient to carry out the protective works or to enter the building or 
land to be 
referred to arbitration under article 42 (arbitration). 
(7) The undertaker shall compensate the owners and occupiers of any building or land 
in relation 
to which rights under this article have been exercised for any loss or damage arising to 
them by 
reason of the exercise of those rights. 
(8) Where— 
(a) protective works are carried out under this article to a building; and 
(b) within the period of 5 years beginning with the day on which the part of the 
authorised 
project carried out in the vicinity of the building is first opened for use it appears that 
the 
protective works are inadequate to protect the building against damage caused by the 
carrying out or use of that part of the authorised project, 
the undertaker shall compensate the owners and occupiers of the building for any loss 
or damage 
sustained by them. 
(9) Nothing in this article shall relieve the undertaker from any liability to pay 
compensation 
 
 
28
under section 10(2) of the 1965 Act (compensation for injurious affection). 
(10) Any compensation payable under paragraph (7) or (8) shall be determined, in 
case of 
dispute, under Part 1 of the 1961 Act (determination of questions of disputed 
compensation). 
(11) In this article “protective works” in relation to a building means— 
(a) underpinning, strengthening and any other works the purpose of which is to 
prevent 
damage which may be caused to the building by the carrying out, maintenance or use 
of 
the authorised project; and 
(b) any works the purpose of which is to remedy any damage which has been caused 
to the 
building by the carrying out, maintenance or use of the authorised project. 
Authority to survey and investigate the land 
Authority to survey and investigate the land 
17.16.—(1)—(1) The undertaker may for the purposes of this Order enter on any land shown 
within the Order limits or land or on any land which may be affected by the authorised project 
development and— 
(a) (a) survey or investigate the land; 
(b) (b) without prejudice to the generality of sub-paragraph (a), make trial holes in such 
positionssub–paragraph (a), make trial holes in such positions on the land as the undertaker 
thinks fit to investigate the nature of the surface layer and subsoil and remove soil samples; 
on the land as the undertaker thinks fit to investigate the nature of the surface layer 
and 
subsoil and remove soil samples; 
(c) (c) without prejudice to the generality of sub-paragraph sub–paragraph (a), carry out 
ecological or archaeological investigations on such land, including making any excavations or 
trial holes on the land for such purposes; and 
(d) place on, leave on and remove from the land apparatus for use in connection with 
the 
survey and investigation of land and making of trial holes.  
 12 
(2) No land may be entered or equipment placed or left on or removed from the land 
under 
paragraph (1) unless at least 14 days’ notice has been served on every owner and 
occupier of the 
land. 
(d) place on, leave on and remove from the land apparatus for use in connection with the survey 
and investigation of land and making of trial holes. 
(2) No land may be entered or equipment placed or left on or removed from the land under 
paragraph (1) unless at least 14 days’ notice has been served on every owner and occupier of the 
land. 
(3) (3) Any person entering land under this article Any person entering land under this article on 
behalf of the undertaker— 
(a) (a) shallmust, if so required on entering the land, produce written evidence of their authority 
to do so; and 
(b) may take with them such vehicles and equipment as are necessary to carry out the 
survey 
 
 
29
or investigation or to make the trial holes. 
(b) may take onto the land such vehicles and equipment as are necessary to carry out the survey 
or investigation or to make the trial holes. 
(4) (4) No trial holes shall are to be made under this article— 
(a) (a) in land located within the highway boundary without the consent of the highway 
authority; or 
(b) (b) in a private street without the consent of the street authority,. 
(5) The undertaker must compensate the owners and occupiers of the land for any loss or 
damage arising by reason of the exercise of the authority conferred by this article, such 
compensation to be determined, in case of dispute, under Part 1 (determination of questions of 
disputed compensation) of the 1961 Act. 
(6) Section 13 (refusal to give possession to acquiring authority) of the 1965 Act applies to the 
entry onto, or possession of land under this article to the same extent as it applies to the 
compulsory acquisition of land under this Order by virtue of section 125 (application of 
compulsory acquisition provisions) of the 2008 Act. 
Removal of human remains 
18.—(1) In this article “the specified land” means the Order land. 
(2) Before the undertaker carries out any development or works which will or may disturb any 
human remains in the specified land it must remove those human remains from the specified land, 
or cause them to be removed, in accordance with the following provisions of this article. 
but such consent shall not be unreasonably withheld. 
(5) The undertaker shall compensate the owners and occupiers of the land for any loss 
or 
damage arising by reason of the exercise of the authority conferred by this article, 
such 
compensation to be determined, in case of dispute, Part 1 (determination of questions 
of disputed 
compensation) of the 1961 Act. 
Removal of human remains 
17.—(1) In this article “the specified land” means [insert description of the land]. 
(2) Before the undertaker carries out any development or works which will or may 
disturb any 
human remains in the specified land it shall remove those human remains from the 
specified land, 
or cause them to be removed, in accordance with the following provisions of this 
article. 
(3) (3) Before any such remains are removed from the specified land the undertaker shall 
givemust give notice of the intended removal, describing the specified land and stating the general 
effect of the following provisions of this article, by— 
notice of the intended removal, describing the specified land and stating the general 
effect of the 
following provisions of this article, by— 
(a) (a) publishing a notice once in each of two successive weeks in a newspaper circulating in the 
area of the authorised project; and 
(b) (b) displaying a notice in a conspicuous place on or near to the specified land. 
(4) As soon as reasonably practicable after the first publication of a notice under 
paragraph (3) 
the undertaker shall send a copy of the notice to [insert relevant local authority]. 
 
 
30
(5) At any time within 56 days after the first publication of a notice under paragraph 
(3) any 
person who is a personal representative or relative of any deceased person whose 
remains are 
interred in the specified land may give notice in writing to the undertaker of that 
person’s intention 
to undertake the removal of the remains. 
(6) Where a person has given notice under paragraph (5), and the remains in question 
can be 
identified, that person may cause such remains to be— 
(4) As soon as reasonably practicable after the first publication of a notice under paragraph (3) 
the undertaker must send a copy of the notice to the relevant planning authority. 
(5) At any time within 56 days after the first publication of a notice under paragraph (3) any 
person who is a personal representative or relative of any deceased person whose remains are 
interred in the specified land may give notice in writing to the undertaker of that person’s intention 
to undertake the removal of the remains. 
(6) Where a person has given notice under paragraph (5), and the remains in question can be 
identified, that person may cause such remains to be— 
(a) (a) removed and re-interred re–interred in any burial ground or cemetery in which burials 
may legally take place; or 
(b) removed to, and cremated in, any crematorium, 
and that person shall, as soon as reasonably practicable after such re-interment or 
cremation, 
provide to the undertaker a certificate for the purpose of enabling compliance with 
paragraph (11). 
(7) If the undertaker is not satisfied that any person giving notice under paragraph (5) 
is the 
personal representative or relative as that person claims to be, or that the remains in 
question can 
be identified, the question shall be determined on the application of either party in a 
summary 
manner by the county court, and the court may make an order specifying who shall 
remove the 
remains and as to the payment of the costs of the application. 
(8) The undertaker shall pay the reasonable expenses of removing and re-interring or 
cremating 
the remains of any deceased person under this article.  
 13 
(b) removed to, and cremated in, any crematorium, 
and that person must, as soon as reasonably practicable after such re–interment or cremation, 
provide to the undertaker a certificate for the purpose of enabling compliance with paragraph (11). 
(7) If the undertaker is not satisfied that any person giving notice under paragraph (5) is the 
personal representative or relative as that person claims to be, or that the remains in question can 
be identified, the question is to be determined on the application of either party in a summary 
manner by the county court, and the court may make an order specifying who is to remove the 
remains and as to the payment of the costs of the application. 
(8) The undertaker must pay the reasonable expenses of removing and re–interring or cremating 
the remains of any deceased person under this article. 
(9) (9) If— 
 
 
31
(a) (a) within the period of 56 days referred to in paragraph (5) no notice under that paragraph 
has been given to the undertaker in respect of any remains in the specified land; or 
(b) (b) such notice is given and no application is made under paragraph (7) within 56 days after 
the giving of the notice but the person who gave the notice fails to remove the remains within 
a further period of 56 days; or 
(c) (c) within 56 days after any order is made by the county court under paragraph (7) any 
person, other than the undertaker, specified in the order fails to remove the remains; or 
(d) (d) it is determined that the remains to which any such notice relates cannot be identified, 
subject to paragraph (10) the undertaker shall remove the remains and cause them to 
be re-interred 
subject to paragraph (10) the undertaker must remove the remains and cause them to be re–
interred in such burial ground or cemetery in which burials may legally take place as the 
undertaker thinks suitable for the purpose; and, so far as possible, remains from individual graves 
shall be re-interredmust be re–interred in individual containers which must be identifiable by a 
record prepared with reference to the original position of burial of the remains that they contain. 
in individual containers which shall be identifiable by a record prepared with 
reference to the 
original position of burial of the remains that they contain. 
(10) (10) If the undertaker is satisfied that any person giving notice under paragraph (5) is the 
personal representative or relative as that person claims to be and that the remains in question can 
be identified, but that person does not remove the remains, the undertaker shall must comply with 
any reasonable request that person may make in relation to the removal and re-interment re–
interment or cremation of the remains. 
(11) On the re-interment or cremation of any remains under this article— 
(11) On the re–interment or cremation of any remains under this article— 
(a) (a) a certificate of re-interment re–interment or cremation shall must be sent by the undertaker 
to the Registrar General by the undertaker giving the date of re-interment re–interment or 
cremation and identifying the place from which the remains were removed and the place in 
which they were re-interredre–interred or cremated; and 
or cremated; and 
(b) (b) a copy of the certificate of re-interment re–interment or cremation and the record 
mentioned in paragraph (9) shall must be sent by the undertaker to [insert relevant local 
authority]the relevant planning authority. 
(12) The removal of the remains of any deceased person under this article must be carried out in 
accordance with any directions which may be given by the Secretary of State. 
(13) Any jurisdiction or function conferred on the county court by this article may be exercised 
by the district judge of the court. 
mentioned in paragraph (4). 
(12) The removal of the remains of any deceased person under this article shall be 
carried out in 
accordance with any directions which may be given by the Secretary of State. 
(13) Any jurisdiction or function conferred on the county court by this article may be 
exercised 
by the district judge of the court. 
(14) (14) Section 25 of the Burial Act 1857(a1857(a) (bodies not to be removed from burial 
grounds, save under faculty, without licence of Secretary of State) shall not apply to a removal 
carried out inis not to apply to a removal carried out in accordance with this article. 
                                                                                                                                       
(a) 1857 c. 81. Substituted by Church of England (Miscellaneous Provisions) Measure 2014 No. 1 s.2 (January 1, 2015: 
substitution has effect subject to transitional and saving provisions specified in SI 2014/2077 Sch.1 paras 1 and 2). 
 
 
32
PART 5 
POWERS OF ACQUISITION 
Compulsory acquisition of land 
accordance with this article. 
Compulsory acquisition of land 
19.18.—(1) —(1) The undertaker may acquire compulsorily so much of the Order land as is 
required for the authorised development or to facilitate it, or as is incidental to it. 
(2) This article is subject to article 23 (Compulsory acquisition of rights etc.), article 26 
(acquisition of subsoil only) and article 29 (Temporary use of land for carrying out the authorised 
development). 
Compulsory acquisition of land – incorporation of the mineral code 
20. Parts 2 and 3 of Schedule 2 (minerals) to the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 are 
incorporated into this Order subject to the modifications that— 
(a) paragraph 8(3) is not incorporated; and 
the authorised project [or to facilitate, or is incidental, to it][or is required as 
replacement land]. 
(2) As from the date on which a compulsory acquisition notice under section 134(3) 
of the 2008 
Act is served or the date on which the Order land, or any part of it, is vested in the 
undertaker, 
whichever is the later, that land or that part of it which is vested (as the case may be) 
shall be 
discharged from all rights, trusts and incidents to which it was previously subject. 
(3) Any person who suffers loss by the extinguishment or suspension of any private 
right of way 
under this article shall be entitled to compensation to be determined, in case of 
dispute, under Part 
1 of the 1961 Act. 
(4) This article is subject to article 25 (acquisition of land limited to subsoil lying 
more than 9 
metres beneath surface) and article 28 (temporary use of land for carrying out the 
authorised 
project). 
 
(a) 1857 c.81. There are amendments to this Act which are not relevant to this Order.  
 14 
Compulsory acquisition of land – incorporation of the mineral code 
19. [Part(s)] 2 [and 3] of Schedule 2 to the Acquisition of Land Act 1981(a)(minerals) 
[is/are] 
incorporated in this Order subject to the modifications that— 
(a) paragraph 8(3) is not incorporated; 
(b) (b) for “the acquiring authority” substitute “the undertaker”;. 
 
 
33
Statutory authority to override easements and other rights 
21.—(1) The carrying out or use of the authorised development and the doing of anything else 
authorised by this Order is authorised for the purpose specified in section 158(2) of the 2008 Act 
(nuisance: statutory authority), notwithstanding that it involves— 
(a) an interference with an interest or right to which this article applies; or 
(b) a breach of a restriction as to use of land arising by virtue of contract. 
(2) The undertaker must pay compensation to any person whose land is injuriously affected 
by— 
(a) an interference with an interest or right to which this article applies; or 
(b) a breach of a restriction as to use of land arising by virtue of contract, 
(c) [insert additional modifications]. 
Time limit for exercise of authority to acquire land compulsorily 
caused by the carrying out or use of the authorised development and the operation of section 158 
of the 2008 Act. 
(3) The interests and rights to which this article applies are any easement, liberty, privilege, right 
or advantage annexed to land and adversely affecting other land, including any natural right to 
support. 
(4) Subsection (2) of section 10 of the 1965 Act applies to paragraph (2) by virtue of section 
152(5) of the 2008 Act (compensation in case where no right to claim in nuisance). 
(5) Any rule or principle applied to the construction of section 10 of the 1965 Act must be 
applied to the construction of paragraph (2) (with any necessary modifications). 
Time limit for exercise of authority to acquire land compulsorily 
22.20.—(1) —(1) After the end of the period of [5 years] beginning on the day on which this 
Order is5 years beginning on the day on which this Order is made— 
made— 
(a) (a) no notice to treat shall is to be served under Part 1 of the 1965 Act; and 
(b) (b) no declaration shall may be executed under section 4 of the Compulsory Purchase 
(Vesting Declarations) Act 1981 (a) as applied by article 23 25 (application of the 
Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act 1981)(b).. 
(2) (2) The authority conferred by article 28 29 (temporary use of land for carrying out the 
authorised projectdevelopment) shall must cease at the end of the period referred to in paragraph 
(1), save that nothing in this paragraph prevents the undertaker remaining in possession of land 
after the end of that period, if the land was entered and possession was taken before the end of that 
period. 
Compulsory acquisition of rights etc. 
23.—(1) Subject to paragraph (2), the undertaker may acquire such rights over the Order land 
or impose restrictive covenants affecting the land as may be required for any purpose for which 
that land may be acquired under article 19 (compulsory acquisition of land), by creating them as 
well as acquiring rights already in existence. 
(2) In respect of such parts of the Order land that are edged in red and shaded blue on the land 
plans the undertaker may acquire compulsorily the existing rights over land and create and acquire 
compulsorily the new rights and impose the restrictions described in the book of reference and 
shown on the land plans. 
                                                                                                                                       
(a) 1981 c. 66. Section 4 was amended by sections 184, 185 and paragraph 2 of Schedule 18(1) to, the Housing and Planning 
Act 2016 (c.22). 
 
 
34
(3) Subject to section 8 of the 1965 Act (provisions as to divided land), where the undertaker 
creates or acquires a right over land or imposes a restriction under paragraph (1) or (2), the 
undertaker is not to be required to acquire a greater interest in that land. 
(4) Schedule 8 (modification of compensation and compulsory purchase enactments for creation 
of new rights and imposition of new restrictions) is to have effect for the purpose of modifying the 
enactments relating to compensation and the provisions of the 1965 Act in their application in 
relation to the compulsory acquisition under this article of a right over land by the creation of a 
new right or the imposition of a restriction. 
(5) In any case where the acquisition of new rights or the imposition of a restriction under 
paragraph (1) or (2) is required for the purposes of diverting, replacing or protecting the apparatus 
of a statutory undertaker, the undertaker may, with the consent of the Secretary of State, transfer 
the power to create and acquire such rights or impose such restrictions to the statutory undertaker 
in question. 
(6) The exercise by a statutory undertaker of any power in accordance with a transfer under 
paragraph (5) is subject to the same restrictions, liabilities and obligations as would apply under 
this Order if that power were exercised by the undertaker. 
(7) Subject to the modifications set out in Schedule 8 (modification of compensation and 
compulsory purchase enactments for creation of new rights and imposition of new restrictions) the 
enactments for the time being in force with respect to compensation for the compulsory purchase 
of land are to apply in the case of a compulsory acquisition under this Order in respect of a right 
by the creation of a new right or imposition of a restriction as they apply to the compulsory 
purchase of land and interests in land. 
Private rights 
24.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights and restrictions over land 
subject to compulsory acquisition under this Order are extinguished— 
(a) as from the date of acquisition of the land by the undertaker, whether compulsorily or by 
agreement; or 
(b) on the date of entry on the land by the undertaker under section 11(1) of the 1965 Act (power 
of entry), 
whichever is the earliest. 
(2) Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights and restrictions over land subject to 
the compulsory acquisition of rights or imposition of restrictions under this Order are suspended 
and unenforceable or, where so notified by the undertaker, extinguished in so far as in either case 
their continuance would be inconsistent with the exercise of the right— 
(a) as from the date of acquisition of the right by the undertaker, whether compulsorily or by 
agreement; or 
(b) on the date of entry on the land by the undertaker under section 11(1) of the 1965 Act (power 
of entry) in pursuance of the right, 
whichever is the earliest. 
(3) Subject to the provisions of this article, and where so notified by the undertaker, all private 
rights and restrictions over land owned by the undertaker or which is leased by the undertaker are 
extinguished on commencement of any activity authorised by this Order which interferes with or 
breaches such rights. 
(4) Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights or restrictions over land of which 
the undertaker takes temporary possession under this Order are suspended and unenforceable for 
as long as the undertaker remains in lawful possession of the land and so far as their continuance 
would be inconsistent with the exercise of the temporary possession of that land. 
(5) Any person who suffers loss by the extinguishment or suspension of any private right or 
restriction under this Order is entitled to compensation to be determined, in case of dispute, under 
Part 1 of the 1961 Act. 
 
 
35
(6) This article does not apply in relation to any right to which section 138 of the 2008 Act 
(extinguishment of rights, and removal of apparatus, of statutory undertakers etc.) or article 31 
(statutory undertakers) applies. 
paragraph shall prevent the undertaker remaining in possession of land after the end of 
that period, 
if the land was entered and possession was taken before the end of that period. 
Compulsory acquisition of rights 
21.—(1) The undertaker may acquire compulsorily the existing rights and create and 
acquire 
compulsorily the new rights described in the book of reference and shown on the 
{insert name] 
plan. 
(2) As from the date on which a compulsory acquisition notice is served or the date on 
which 
any new right is vested in the undertaker, whichever is the later, the land over which 
any new 
rights is acquired shall be discharged from all rights, trusts and incidents to which it 
was 
previously subject so far as their continuance would be inconsistent with the exercise 
of that new 
right. 
(3) Subject to section 8 of the 1965 Act, as substituted by article 26 (acquisition of 
part of 
certain properties), where the undertaker acquires an existing right over land under 
paragraph (1), 
the undertaker shall not be required to acquire a greater interest in that land. 
(4) Any person who suffers loss as a result of the extinguishment or suspension of any 
private 
right of way under this article shall be entitled to compensation to be determined, in 
case of 
dispute, under Part 1 of the 1961 Act. 
Private rights of way 
22.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights of way over land 
subject to 
compulsory acquisition under this Order shall be extinguished— 
(a) as from the date of acquisition of the land by the undertaker, whether compulsorily 
or by 
agreement; or 
(b) on the date of entry on the land by the undertaker under section 11(1) of the 1965 
Act 
(power of entry), 
whichever is the earlier. 
(a) 1981 c.67. Sub-paragraph (5) of paragraph 1 of Part 1 of Schedule 2 was amended 
by section 67 of, and paragraph 27(3) of 
Schedule 9 to, the Coal Industry Act 1994 (c.21) and paragraph 8 of Part 3 of 
Schedule was amended by section 46 of the 
Criminal Justice Act 1982 (c.48). There are other amendments to the 1981 Act which 
are not relevant to this Order. 
(b) 1981 c.66. Sections 2 and 116 were amended by section 4 of, and paragraph 52 of 
Schedule 2 to, the Planning 
 
 
36
(Consequential Provisions) Act 1990 (c.11). There are other amendments to the 
1981Act which are not relevant to this 
Order.  
 15 
(2) Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights of way over land owned 
by the 
undertaker which, being within the limits of land which may be acquired shown on 
the land plan, 
is required for the purposes of this Order shall be extinguished on the appropriation of 
the land by 
the undertaker for any of those purposes 
(3) Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights of way over land of 
which the 
undertaker takes temporary possession under this Order shall be suspended and 
unenforceable for 
as long as the undertaker remains in lawful possession of the land. 
(4) Any person who suffers loss by the extinguishment or suspension of any private 
right of way 
under this article shall be entitled to compensation to be determined, in case of 
dispute, under Part 
1 of the 1961 Act. 
(5) This article does not apply in relation to any right of way to which section 138 of 
the 2008 
Act (extinguishment of rights, and removal of apparatus, of statutory undertakers etc.) 
or article 31 
(statutory undertakers) applies. 
(7) (6) Paragraphs (1) to (3) shall have effect subject to— 
(a) any notice given by the undertaker before— 
(a) any notice given by the undertaker before— 
(i) (i) the completion of the acquisition of the land or the creation and acquisition of 
rights or the imposition of restrictions over land, 
(ii) (ii) the undertaker’s appropriation of it, 
(iii) (iii) the undertaker’s entry onto it, or 
(iv) (iv) the undertaker’s taking temporary possession of it, 
that any or all of those paragraphs shall are not to apply to any right of way specified in 
the notice; and 
(b) (b) any agreement made at any time between the undertaker and the person in or to whom the 
right of way or restriction in question is vested or , belongs or benefits. 
(8) (7) If any such agreement as is referred to in paragraph (7)6)(b)—(b)— 
(a) (a) is made with a person in or to whom the right of way is vested or belongs; and 
(b) (b) is expressed to have effect also for the benefit of those deriving title from or under that 
person, 
it shall be effective in respect of the persons so deriving title, whether the title was 
derived before 
or after the making of the agreement. 
Application of the Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act 1981 
it is effective in respect of the persons so deriving title, whether the title was derived before or 
after the making of the agreement. 
 
 
37
Application of the Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act 1981 
25.23.—(1) —(1) The Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act 1981 (a) shall apply 
as if thisapplies as if this Order were a compulsory purchase order. 
Order were a compulsory purchase order. 
(2) (2) The Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act 1981, as so applied, shall have 
effecthas effect with the following modifications. 
with the following modifications. 
(3) In section 3 (preliminary notices), for subsection (1) there shall be substituted— 
“(1) Before making a declaration under section 4 with respect to any land which is 
subject 
to a compulsory purchase order, the acquiring authority shall include the particulars 
specified in subsection (3) in a notice which is— 
(a) given to every person with a relevant interest in the land with respect to which the 
declaration is to be made (other than a mortgagee who is not in possession); and 
(a) 1981 c. 66. Sections 2(3), 6(2) and 11(6) were amended by section 4 of, and 
paragraph 52 of Schedule 2 to, the Planning 
(Consequential Provisions) Act 1990 (c. 11). Section 15 was amended by sections 56 
and 321(1) of, and Schedules 8 and 
16 to, the Housing and Regeneration Act 2008 (c. 17). Paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 was 
amended by section 76 of, and Part 2 
of Schedule 9 to, the Housing Act 1988 (c 50); section 161(4) of, and Schedule 19 to, 
the Leasehold Reform, Housing and 
Urban Development Act 1993 (c. 28); and sections 56 and 321(1) of, and Schedule 8 
to, the Housing and Regeneration Act 
2008. Paragraph 3 of Schedule 2 was amended by section 76 of, and Schedule 9 to, 
the Housing Act 1988 and section 56 
of, and Schedule 8 to, the Housing and Regeneration Act 2008. Paragraph 2 of 
Schedule 3 was repealed by section 277 of, 
and Schedule 9 to, the Inheritance Tax Act 1984 (c. 51). There are other amendments 
to the 1981 Act which are not 
relevant to this Order.  
 16 
(b) published in a local newspaper circulating in the area in which the land is situated. 
”. 
(4) In that section, in subsection (2), for “(1)(b)” there shall be substituted “(1)” and 
after 
“given” there shall be inserted “and published”. 
(5) In that section, for subsections (5) and (6) there shall be substituted— 
“(5) For the purposes of this section, a person has a relevant interest in land if— 
(a) that person is for the time being entitled to dispose of the fee simple of the land, 
whether in possession or in reversion; or 
(b) that person holds, or is entitled to the rents and profits of, the land under a lease or 
agreement, the unexpired term of which exceeds one month.”. 
(3) (6) In section Section 5 (earliest date for execution of declaration)—declaration) is omitted. 
(4) Section 5A (time limit for general vesting declaration) is omitted. 
(a) in subsection (1), after “publication” there shall be inserted “in a local newspaper 
circulating in the area in which the land is situated”; and 
(b) subsection (2) shall be omitted. 
(5) In section 5B (extension of time limit during challenge)— 
 
 
38
(a) for “section 23 of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 (application to High Court in respect of 
compulsory purchase order)” substitute “section 118 of the 2008 Act (legal challenges 
relating to applications for orders granting development consent)”; and 
(b) for “the three year period mentioned in section 5A” substitute “the five year period mentioned 
in article 22 (time limit for exercise of authority to acquire land compulsorily) of the 
Abergelli Power Gas Fired Generating Station Order 201[X]. 
(6) (7) In section 7 (constructive notice to treat), in subsection (1)(a), the words “(as modified by 
section 4 of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981)” shall be are omitted. 
(7) In Schedule A1 (counter–notice requiring purchase of land not in general vesting 
declaration), omit paragraph 1(2). 
(8) (8) References to the 1965 Act in the Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act 1981 
shall must be construed as references to that Act as applied by section 125 of the 2008 Act to 
the(as modified by article 27 (application of Part 1 of the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965) to the 
compulsory acquisition of land under this Order. 
Acquisition of subsoil only 
compulsory acquisition of land under this Order. 
Acquisition of subsoil only 
26.24.—(1) —(1) The undertaker may acquire compulsorily so much of, or such rights in, the 
subsoil of the land referred to in paragraph (1) of article 18 19 (compulsory acquisition of land) 
and paragraph (1) of article 23 (compulsory acquisition of rights etc.) as may be required for any 
purpose for which that land or rights or restrictions over that land may be created and acquired or 
imposed under that provision instead of acquiring the whole of the land. 
(2) Where the undertaker acquires any part of, or rights in, the subsoil of land under paragraph 
(1), the undertaker is not to be required to acquire an interest in any other part of the land. 
(3) Paragraph (2) does not prevent Schedule 2A to the 1965 Act (as modified by article 27 
(application of part 1 of the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965) from applying where the undertaker 
acquires a cellar, vault, arch or other construction forming part of a house, building or 
manufactory. 
Application of Part 1 of the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965 
27.—(1) Part 1 of the 1965 Act, as applied to this Order by section 125 (application of 
compulsory acquisition provisions) of the 2008 Act, is modified as follows. 
(2) In section 4A(1) (extension of time limit during challenge)— 
(a) for “section 23 of  
(compulsory acquisition of land) as may berequired for any purpose for which that 
land may be acquired under that provision instead of 
acquiring the whole of the land. 
(2) Where the undertaker acquires any part of, or rights in, the subsoil of land under 
paragraph 
(1), the undertaker shall not be required to acquire an interest in any other part of the 
land. 
(3) Paragraph (2) shall not prevent article 26 (acquisition of part of certain properties) 
from 
applying where the undertaker acquires a cellar, vault, arch or other construction 
forming part of a 
house, building or manufactory. 
Acquisition of land limited to subsoil lying more than 9 metres beneath surface 
25.—(1) This article applies to the land specified in Schedule F (land of which only 
subsoil 
 
 
39
more than 9 metres beneath surface may be acquired). 
(2) In the case of land to which this article applies, the undertaker may only acquire 
compulsorily under article 18 (compulsory acquisition of land) so much of, or such 
rights in, the 
subsoil of the land as may be required for the purposes of the authorised project. 
(3) Where the undertaker acquires any part of, or rights in, the subsoil of the land to 
which this 
article applies, the undertaker shall not be required to acquire a greater interest in the 
land or an 
interest in any other part of it. 
(4) References in this article to the subsoil of land are references to the subsoil lying 
more than 9 
metres beneath the level of the surface of the land; and for this purpose “level of the 
surface of the 
land” means— 
(a) in the case of any land on which a building is erected, the level of the surface of 
the 
ground adjoining the building; 
(b) in the case of a watercourse or other water area, the level of the surface of the 
ground 
nearest to it which is at all times above water level; or 
(c) in any other case, ground surface level.  
 17 
Acquisition of part of certain properties 
26.—(1)This article shall apply instead of section 8(1) of the 1965 Act (other 
provisions as 
divided land) (as applied by section 125 of the 2008 Act) where— 
(a) a notice to treat is served on a person (“the owner”) under the 1965 Act (as so 
applied) in 
respect of land forming only part of a house, building or manufactory or of land 
consisting of a house with a park or garden (“the land subject to the notice to treat”); 
and 
(b) a copy of this article is served on the owner with the notice to treat. 
(2) In such a case, the owner may, within the period of 21 days beginning with the day 
on which 
the notice was served, serve on the undertaker a counter-notice objecting to the sale of 
the land 
subject to the notice to treat which states that the owner is willing and able to sell the 
whole (“the 
land subject to the counter-notice”). 
(3) If no such counter-notice is served within that period, the owner shall be required 
to sell the 
land subject to the notice to treat. 
(4) If such a counter-notice is served within that period, the question whether the 
owner shall be 
required to sell only the land subject to the notice to treat shall, unless the undertaker 
agrees to 
take the land subject to the counter-notice, be referred to the tribunal. 
(5) If on such a reference the tribunal determines that the land subject to the notice to 
treat can 
 
 
40
be taken— 
(a) without material detriment to the remainder of the land subject to the counter-
notice; or 
(b) where the land subject to the notice to treat consists of a house with a park or 
garden, 
without material detriment to the remainder of the land subject to the counter-notice 
and 
without seriously affecting the amenity and convenience of the house, 
the owner shall be required to sell the land subject to the notice to treat. 
(6) If on such a reference the tribunal determines that only part of the land subject to 
the notice 
to treat can be taken— 
(a) without material detriment to the remainder of the land subject to the counter-
notice; or 
(b) where the land subject to the notice to treat consists of a house with a park or 
garden, 
without material detriment to the remainder of the land subject to the counter-notice 
and 
without seriously affecting the amenity and convenience of the house, 
the notice to treat shall be deemed to be a notice to treat for that part. 
(7) If on such a reference the tribunal determines that— 
(a) the land subject to the notice to treat cannot be taken without material detriment to 
the 
remainder of the land subject to the counter-notice; but 
(b) the material detriment is confined to a part of the land subject to the counter-
notice, 
the notice to treat shall be deemed to be a notice to treat for the land to which the 
material 
detriment is confined in addition to the land already subject to the notice, whether or 
not the 
additional land is land which the undertaker is authorised to acquire compulsorily 
under this 
Order. 
(8) If the undertaker agrees to take the land subject to the counter-notice, or if the 
tribunal 
determines that— 
(a) none of the land subject to the notice to treat can be taken without material 
detriment to 
the remainder of the land subject to the counter-notice or, as the case may be, without 
material detriment to the remainder of the land subject to the counter-notice and 
without 
seriously affecting the amenity and convenience of the house; and 
(b) the material detriment is not confined to a part of the land subject to the counter-
notice, 
the notice to treat shall be deemed to be a notice to treat for the land subject to the 
counter-notice 
whether or not the whole of that land is land which the undertaker is authorised to 
acquire 
compulsorily under this Order.  
 18 
 
 
41
(9) Where, by reason of a determination by the tribunal under this article, a notice to 
treat is 
deemed to be a notice to treat for less land or more land than that specified in the 
notice, the 
undertaker may, within the period of 6 weeks beginning with the day on which the 
determination 
is made, withdraw the notice to treat; and, in that event, shall pay the owner 
compensation for any 
loss or expense occasioned to the owner by the giving and withdrawal of the notice, to 
be 
determined in case of dispute by the tribunal. 
(10) Where the owner is required under this article to sell only part of a house, 
building or 
manufactory or of land consisting of a house with a park or garden, the undertaker 
shall pay the 
owner compensation for any loss sustained by the owner due to the severance of that 
part in 
addition to the value of the interest acquired. 
Rights under or over streets 
27.—(1) The undertaker may enter on and appropriate so much of the subsoil of, or 
air-space 
over, any street within the Order limits as may be required for the purposes of the 
authorised 
project and may use the subsoil or air-space for those purposes or any other purpose 
ancillary to 
the authorised project. 
(2) Subject to paragraph (3), the undertaker may exercise any power conferred by 
paragraph (1) 
in relation to a street without being required to acquire any part of the street or any 
easement or 
right in the street.the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 (application to High Court in respect of 
compulsory purchase order)” substitute “section 118 of the 2008 Act (legal challenges relating to 
applications for orders granting development consent)”; and 
(b) for “the three year period specified in section 4” substitute “the five year period mentioned in 
article 22 (time limit for exercise of authority to acquire land compulsorily) of the Abergelli 
Power Gas Fired Generating Station Order 201[X]”. 
(3) In section 22(2) (expiry of time limit for exercise of compulsory purchase power not to 
affect acquisition of interests omitted from purchase), for “section 4 of this Act” substitute “article 
22 (time limit for exercise of authority to acquire land compulsorily) of the Abergelli Power Gas 
Fired Generating Station Order 201[X]”. 
(4) In Schedule 2A (counter–notice requiring purchase of land not in notice to treat)— 
(a) omit paragraphs 1(2) and 14(2); and 
(b) at the end insert— 
“PART 4 
INTERPRETATION 
30. In this Schedule, references to entering on and taking possession of land do not include 
doing so under article 29 (temporary use of land for carrying out the authorised 
development) or article 30 (temporary use of land for maintaining the authorised 
development) of the Abergelli Power Gas Fired Generating Station Order 201[X].” 
 
 
42
Rights under or over streets 
28.—(1) The undertaker may enter upon and appropriate so much of the subsoil of, or air–
space over, any street within the Order land as may be required for the purposes of the authorised 
development and may use the subsoil or air–space for those purposes or any other purpose 
ancillary to the authorised development. 
(2) Subject to paragraph (3), the undertaker may exercise any power conferred by paragraph (1) 
in relation to a street without being required to acquire any part of the street or any easement or 
right in the street. 
(3) (3) Paragraph (2) shall does not apply in relation to— 
(a) (a) any subway or underground building; or 
(b) any cellar, vault, arch or other construction in, on or under a street which forms 
part of a 
building fronting onto the street. 
(b) any cellar, vault, arch or other construction in, on or under a street which forms part of a 
building fronting onto the street. 
(4) (4) Subject to paragraph (5), any person who is an owner or occupier of land appropriated 
underin respect of which the power of appropriation conferred by paragraph (1) is exercised 
without the undertaker acquiring any part of that person’s interest in the land, and who suffers loss 
as a resultwho suffers loss by the exercise of that power, shall be entitled to compensation to be 
determined, in case of dispute,is to be entitled to compensation to be determined, in case of 
dispute, under Part 1 of the 1961 Act. 
(5) Compensation is not payable under paragraph (4) to any person who is an undertaker to 
whom section 85 of the 1991 Act (sharing cost of necessary measures) applies in respect of 
measures of which the allowable costs are to be borne in accordance with that section. 
under Part 1 of the 1961 Act. 
(5) Compensation shall not be payable under paragraph (4) to any person who is an 
undertaker 
to whom section 85 of the 1991 Act (sharing cost of necessary measures) applies in 
respect of 
measures of which the allowable costs are to be borne in accordance with that section. 
Temporary use of land for in connection with the carrying out of the authorised 
projectdevelopment 
29.28.—(1) —(1) The undertaker may, in connection with the carrying out of the authorised 
project—in connection with the carrying out of the authorised development— 
(a) enter on and take possession of— 
(i) so much of the land specified in columns (1) and (2) of Schedule 9 (land of which 
temporary possession may be taken) for the purpose specified in relation to that land 
in column (3) of that Schedule; 
(ii) any other Order land in respect of which no notice of entry has been served under 
section 1.1 of the 1965 Act (powers of entry) (other than in connection with the 
acquisition of rights only) and no declaration has been made under section 4 of the 
Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act 1981 (execution of declaration); 
(b) remove any buildings, fences, debris and vegetation from that land; 
(c) construct temporary works (including the provision of means of access) and buildings on that 
land; and 
(d) construct any works specified in relation to that land in column (3) of Schedule 9 (land of 
which temporary possession may be taken), or any other mitigation works. 
 
 
43
(2) Not less than 14 days before entering on and taking temporary possession of land under this 
article the undertaker must serve notice of the intended entry on the owners and occupiers of the 
land. 
(a) enter on and take temporary possession of the land specified in columns (1) and 
(2) of 
Schedule G (land of which temporary possession may be taken) for the purpose 
specified 
in relation to that land in column (3) of that Schedule relating to the part of the 
authorised 
project specified in column (4) of that Schedule; 
(b) remove any buildings and vegetation from that land; and 
(c) construct temporary works (including the provision of means of access) and 
buildings on 
that land. 
(2) Not less than 14 days before entering on and taking temporary possession of land 
under this 
article the undertaker shall serve notice of the intended entry on the owners and 
occupiers of the 
land. 
(3) The undertaker may not, without the agreement of the owners of the land, remain 
in 
possession of any land under this article after the end of the period of one year 
beginning with the 
date of completion of the part of the authorised project specified in relation to that 
land in column 
(4) of Schedule G. 
(4) Before giving up possession of land of which temporary possession has been taken 
under 
this article, the undertaker shall remove all temporary works and restore the land to 
the reasonable 
satisfaction of the owners of the land; but the undertaker shall not be required to 
replace a building 
removed under this article.  
 19 
(5) The undertaker shall pay compensation to the owners and occupiers of land of 
which 
temporary possession is taken under this article for any loss or damage arising from 
the exercise in 
relation to the land of the provisions of any power conferred by this article. 
(6) Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (5), or 
as to the 
amount of the compensation, shall be determined under Part 1 of the 1961 Act. 
(7) Nothing in this article shall affect any liability to pay compensation under section 
10(2) of 
the 1965 Act (further provisions as to compensation for injurious affection) or under 
any other 
enactment in respect of loss or damage arising from the carrying out of the authorised 
project, 
other than loss or damage for which compensation is payable under paragraph (5). 
 
 
44
(8) The undertaker may not compulsorily acquire under this Order the land referred to 
in 
paragraph (1) except that the undertaker shall not be precluded from— 
(a) acquiring new rights over any part of that land under article 21 (compulsory 
acquisition 
of rights); or 
(b) acquiring any part of the subsoil (or rights in the subsoil) of that land under article 
24 
(acquisition of subsoil only) or in accordance with article 25 (acquisition of land 
limited 
to subsoil lying more than 9 metres beneath surface). 
(9) Where the undertaker takes possession of land under this article, the undertaker 
shall not be 
required to acquire the land or any interest in it. 
(10) Section 13 of the 1965 Act (refusal to give possession to acquiring authority) 
shall apply to 
the temporary use of land pursuant to this article to the same extent as it applies to the 
compulsory 
acquisition of land under this Order by virtue of section 125 of the 2008 Act 
(application of 
compulsory acquisition provisions). 
Temporary use of land for maintaining authorised project 
29.—(1) Subject to paragraph (2), at any time during the maintenance period relating 
to any part 
of the authorised project, the undertaker may— 
(a) enter on and take temporary possession of any land within the Order limits if such 
possession is reasonably required for the purpose of maintaining the authorised 
project; 
and 
(b) construct such temporary works (including the provision of means of access) and 
buildings on the land as may be reasonably necessary for that purpose. 
(2) Paragraph (1) shall not authorise the undertaker to take temporary possession of— 
(a) any house or garden belonging to a house; or 
(b) any building (other than a house) if it is for the time being occupied. 
(3) Not less than 28 days before entering on and taking temporary possession of land 
under this 
article the undertaker shall serve notice of the intended entry on the owners and 
occupiers of the 
land. 
(3) (4) The undertaker may only not, without the agreement of the owners of the land, remain in 
possession of any land under this article for so long as mayarticle— 
(a) in the case of land specified in paragraph (1)(a)(i) after the end of the period of one year 
beginning with the date of completion of construction of the authorised development; or 
(b) in the case of land referred to in paragraph (1)(a)(ii) after the end of the period of one year 
beginning with the date of completion of construction of the authorised development unless 
the undertaker has, before the end of that period, served notice of entry under section 11 of 
the 1965 Act or made a declaration under section 4 of the Compulsory Purchase (Vesting 
Declarations) Act 1981 or has otherwise acquired the land subject to temporary possession. 
(4) Unless the undertaker has served notice of entry under section 11 of the 1965 Act or made a 
declaration under section 4 of the Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act 1981 or has 
 
 
45
otherwise acquired the land subject to temporary possession, the undertaker must, before giving up 
possession of land of which temporary possession has been taken under this article, remove all 
temporary works and restore the land to the reasonable satisfaction of the owners of the land; but 
the undertaker is not to be required to replace a building or any debris removed under this article. 
(5) The undertaker must pay compensation to the owners and occupiers of land of which 
temporary possession is taken under this article for any loss or damage arising from the exercise in 
relation to the land of the provisions of this article. 
(6) Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (5), or as to the 
amount of the compensation, is to be determined under Part 1 of the 1961 Act. 
(7) Nothing in this article affects any liability to pay compensation under section 10(2) of the 
1965 Act (further provisions as to compensation for injurious affection) or under any other 
enactment in respect of loss or damage arising from the carrying out of the authorised 
development, other than loss or damage for which compensation is payable under paragraph (5). 
(8) The undertaker may not compulsorily acquire under this Order the land referred to in 
paragraph (1)(a)(i). 
(9) Nothing in this article precludes the undertaker from— 
(a) creating and acquiring new rights or imposing restrictions over any part of the Order land 
identified in part 1 of the book of reference under article 23 (compulsory acquisition of rights 
etc.); or 
(b) acquiring any right in the subsoil of any part of the Order land identified in part 1 of the book 
of reference under article 26 (acquisition of subsoil only) or article 28 (rights under or over 
streets). 
(10) Where the undertaker takes possession of land under this article, the undertaker is not to be 
required to acquire the land or any interest in it. 
(11) Section 13 of the 1965 Act (refusal to give possession to acquiring authority) applies to the 
temporary use of land pursuant to this article to the same extent as it applies to the compulsory 
acquisition of land under this Order by virtue of section 125 of the 2008 Act (application of 
compulsory acquisition provisions). 
(12) Nothing in this article prevents the taking of temporary possession more than once in 
relation to any land specified in Schedule 9 (land of which temporary possession may be taken). 
(13) The provisions of the Neighbourhood Planning Act 2017(a) do not apply insofar as they 
relate to temporary possession of land under this article in connection with the carrying out of the 
authorised development and other development necessary for the authorised development within 
the Order land. 
Temporary use of land for maintaining the authorised development 
30.—(1) Subject to paragraph (2), at any time during the maintenance period relating to any 
part of the authorised development, the undertaker may— 
(a) enter on and take temporary possession of any land within the Order land if such possession 
is reasonably required for the purpose of maintaining the authorised development; and 
(b) construct such temporary works (including the provision of means of access) and buildings on 
the land as may be reasonably necessary for that purpose. 
(2) Paragraph (1) does not authorise the undertaker to take temporary possession of— 
(a) any house or garden belonging to a house; or 
(b) any building (other than a house) if it is for the time being occupied. 
(3) Not less than 28 days before entering on and taking temporary possession of land under this 
article the undertaker must serve notice of the intended entry on the owners and occupiers of the 
land. 
                                                                                                                                       
(a) 2017 c.20. 
 
 
46
(4) The undertaker may only remain in possession of land under this article for so long as may 
be reasonably necessary to carry out the maintenance of the part of the authorised development for 
which possession of the land was taken. 
be reasonably necessary to carry out the maintenance of the part of the authorised 
project for 
which possession of the land was taken. 
(5) (5) Before giving up possession of land of which temporary possession has been taken under 
this article, the undertaker shall must remove all temporary works and restore the land to the 
reasonable satisfaction of the owners of the land. 
(6) The undertaker shall pay compensation to the owners and occupiers of land of 
which 
temporary possession is taken under this article for any loss or damage arising from 
the exercise in 
relation to the land of the provisions of this article. 
(6) The undertaker must pay compensation to the owners and occupiers of land of which 
temporary possession is taken under this article for any loss or damage arising from the exercise in 
relation to the land of the provisions of this article. 
(7) (7) Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (6), or as to 
the amount of the compensation, shall be determined under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.is to be 
determined under Part 1 of the 1961 Act. 
(8) Nothing in this article affects any liability to pay compensation under section 10(2) of the 
1965 Act (further provisions as to compensation for injurious affection) or under any other 
enactment in respect of loss or damage arising from the maintenance of the authorised 
development, other than loss or damage for which compensation is payable under paragraph (6). 
(9) Where the undertaker takes possession of land under this article, the undertaker is not to be 
required to acquire the land or any interest in it. 
(8) Nothing in this article shall affect any liability to pay compensation under section 
10(2) of 
the 1965 Act (further provisions as to compensation for injurious affection) or under 
any other  
 20 
enactment in respect of loss or damage arising from the maintenance of the authorised 
project, 
other than loss or damage for which compensation is payable under paragraph (6). 
(9) Where the undertaker takes possession of land under this article, the undertaker 
shall not be 
required to acquire the land or any interest in it. 
(10) (10) Section 13 of the 1965 Act (refusal to give possession to acquiring authority) shall 
apply toapplies to the temporary use of land pursuant to this article to the same extent as it applies 
to the compulsory acquisition of land under this Order by virtue of section 125 of the 2008 Act 
(application of compulsory acquisition provisions). 
the temporary use of land pursuant to this article to the same extent as it applies to the 
compulsory 
acquisition of land under this Order by virtue of section 125 of the 2008 Act 
(application of 
compulsory acquisition provisions). 
(11) (11) In this article “the maintenance period” , in relation to any part of the authorised 
project,means the period of 5 years means the period of 5 years beginning with the date of final 
commissioning except where the authorised development is landscaping where “the maintenance 
period” means such period as set out in the landscaping plan which is approved by the relevant 
planning authority pursuant to requirement 3 beginning with the date on which that part of the 
landscaping is completed. 
 
 
47
(12) The provisions of the Neighbourhood Planning Act 2017(a) do not apply insofar as they 
relate to temporary possession of land under this article in connection with the  
beginning with the date on which that part of the authorised project isfirst opened for 
use. 
Special category land 
30.—(1) The special category land shall not vest in the undertaker until the undertaker 
has 
acquired the replacement land and [insert name of relevant body] has certified that a 
scheme for 
the provision of the replacement land as [common/open space/fuel or field garden 
allotment] has 
been implemented to its satisfaction. 
(2) On the requirements of paragraph (1) being satisfied, the replacement land shall 
vest in 
[insert name of relevant body] subject to the same rights, trusts and incidents as 
attached to the 
special category land; and the special category land shall be discharged from all 
rights, trusts and 
incidents to which it was previously subject. 
(3) In this article— 
“the special category land” means the land identified as forming part of a common, 
open 
space, or fuel or field garden allotment in the book of reference and on the plan 
entitled 
“Special Category Land Plan” attached to the land plan, which may be acquired 
compulsorily 
under this Order and for which replacement land is to be provided; and 
“the replacement land” means the land identified in the book of reference and on the 
plan 
entitled “Replacement Land Plan” attached to the land plan. 
Statutory undertakers 
31. The undertaker may— 
(a) acquire compulsorily the land belonging to statutory undertakers shown on the 
land plan 
within the limits of the land to be acquired and described in the book of reference; 
(b) extinguish the rights of, remove or reposition the apparatus belonging to statutory 
undertakers shown on the [insert name] plan and described in the book of reference; 
and 
(c) acquire compulsorily the new rights over land belonging to statutory undertakers 
shown 
on the [insert name] plan and described in the book of reference. 
Apparatus and rights of statutory undertakers in stopped-up streets 
32.—(1) Where a street is stopped up under article 9 (stopping up of streets), any 
statutory 
utility whose apparatus is under, in, on, along or across the street shall have the same 
powers and 
rights in respect of that apparatus, subject to the provisions of this article, as if this 
Order had not 
                                                                                                                                       
(a) 2017 c.20. 
 
 
48
been made. 
(2) Where a street is stopped up under article 9, any statutory utility whose apparatus 
is under, 
in, on, over, along or across the street may, and if reasonably requested to do so by the 
undertaker 
shall— 
(a) remove the apparatus and place it or other apparatus provided in substitution for it 
in 
such other position as the utility may reasonably determine and have power to place 
it; 
or  
 21 
(b) provide other apparatus in substitution for the existing apparatus and place it in 
such 
position as described in sub-paragraph (a). 
(3) Subject to the following provisions of this article, the undertaker shall pay to any 
statutory 
utility an amount equal to the cost reasonably incurred by the utility in or in 
connection with— 
(a) the execution of the relocation works required in consequence of the stopping up 
of the 
street; and 
(b) the doing of any other work or thing rendered necessary by the execution of the 
relocation works. 
(4) If in the course of the execution of relocation works under paragraph (2)— 
(a) apparatus of a better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is placed in 
substitution for existing apparatus; or 
(b) apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing 
apparatus) is 
placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing apparatus was, 
and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions or the 
placing of 
apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed by the undertaker, or, in 
default of 
agreement, is not determined by arbitration to be necessary, then, if it involves cost in 
the 
execution of the relocation works exceeding that which would have been involved if 
the apparatus 
placed had been of the existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at the existing depth, 
as the case 
may be, the amount which, apart from this paragraph, would be payable to the 
statutory utility by 
virtue of paragraph (3) shall be reduced by the amount of that excess. 
(5) For the purposes of paragraph (4)— 
(a) an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing apparatus 
shall 
not be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions than those of the 
existing 
apparatus; and 
 
 
49
(b) where the provision of a joint in a cable is agreed, or is determined to be 
necessary, the 
consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a manhole shall be treated as if it 
also had been agreed or had been so determined. 
(6) An amount which, apart from this paragraph, would be payable to a statutory 
utility in 
respect of works by virtue of paragraph (3) (and having regard, where relevant, to 
paragraph (4)) 
shall, if the works include the placing of apparatus provided in substitution for 
apparatus placed 
more than 7 years and 6 months earlier so as to confer on the utility any financial 
benefit by 
deferment of the time for renewal of the apparatus in the ordinary course, be reduced 
by the 
amount which represents that benefit. 
(7) Paragraphs (3) to (6) shall not apply where the authorised project constitutes major 
highway 
works, major bridge works or major transport works for the purposes of Part 3 of the 
1991 Act, 
but instead— 
(a) the allowable costs of the relocation works shall be determined in accordance with 
section 85 of that Act (sharing of cost of necessary measures) and any regulations for 
the 
time being having effect under that section; and 
(b) the allowable costs shall be borne by the undertaker and the statutory utility in 
such 
proportions as may be prescribed by any such regulations. 
(8) In this article— 
“apparatus” has the same meaning as in Part 3 of the 1991 Act; 
“relocation works” means work executed, or apparatus provided, under paragraph (2); 
and 
“statutory utility” means a statutory undertaker for the purposes of the 1980 Act or a 
public 
communications provider as defined in section 151(1) of the Communications Act 
2003(a). 
 
(a) 2003 c.21. There are amendments to this Act which are not relevant to this Order.  
 22 
Recovery of costs of new connectionsmaintenance of the authorised development and other 
development necessary for the authorised development within the Order land. 
Statutory undertakers 
31. Subject to the provisions of Schedule 11 (protective provisions), the undertaker may— 
(a) acquire compulsorily the land belonging to statutory undertakers within the Order land; 
(b) extinguish or suspend the rights of or restrictions for the benefit of, and remove or reposition 
the apparatus belonging to statutory undertakers on, under, over or within the Order land; and 
(c) create and acquire compulsorily the rights and/or impose restrictions over any Order land 
belonging to statutory undertakers. 
 
 
50
Apparatus and rights of statutory undertakers in streets 
32. Where a street is altered or diverted or its use is temporarily prohibited or restricted under 
article 10 (construction and maintenance of new or altered means of access) or article 11 
(temporary prohibition or restriction of use of streets) or where a street is stopped up under 
article 12 (stopping up of streets) any statutory undertaker whose apparatus is under, in, on, 
along or across the street is to have the same powers and rights in respect of that apparatus, 
subject to Schedule 11 (protective provisions), as if this Order had not been made. 
Recovery of costs of new connections 
33.33.—(1) —(1) Where any apparatus of a public utility undertaker or of a public 
communications provider is removed under article 31 (statutory undertakers) any person who is 
the owner or occupier of premises to which a supply was given from that apparatus is to be 
entitled to recover from the undertaker compensation in respect of expenditure reasonably 
incurred by that person, in consequence of the removal, for the purpose of effecting a connection 
between the premises and any other apparatus from which a supply is given. 
provider is removed under article 31 (statutory undertakers) any person who is the 
owner or 
occupier of premises to which a supply was given from that apparatus shall be entitled 
to recover 
from the undertaker compensation in respect of expenditure reasonably incurred by 
that person, in 
consequence of the removal, for the purpose of effecting a connection between the 
premises and 
any other apparatus from which a supply is given. 
(2) (2) Paragraph (1) shall does not apply in the case of the removal of a public sewer but where 
such a sewer is removed under article 31,  (statutory undertakers) any person who is— 
(a) (a) the owner or occupier of premises the drains of which communicated with that the sewer; 
or 
(b) (b) the owner of a private sewer which communicated with that sewer, 
shall be entitled to recover from the undertaker compensation in respect of 
expenditure reasonably 
incurred by that person, in consequence of the removal, for the purpose of making the 
drain or 
sewer belonging to that person communicate with any other public sewer or with a 
private 
sewerage disposal plant. 
(3) This article shall not have effect in relation to apparatus to which article 32 
(apparatus and 
is to be entitled to recover from the undertaker compensation in respect of expenditure reasonably 
incurred by that person, in consequence of the removal, for the purpose of making the drain or 
sewer belonging to that person communicate with any other public sewer or with a private 
sewerage disposal plant. 
(3) This article does not have effect in relation to apparatus to which article 32 (apparatus and 
rights of statutory undertakers in stopped-up streets) or Part 3 of the 1991 Act applies.streets) or 
Part 3 of the 1991 Act applies. 
(4) In this article— 
 
 
51
“public communication provider” has the same meaning as in section 151(1) of the 
Communications Act 2003(a); and 
“public utility undertaker” has the same meaning as in the 1980 Act. 
Funding 
34.—(1) The undertaker must not exercise the powers conferred by the provisions referred to 
in paragraph (2) in relation to any land unless it has first put in place either— 
(a) a guarantee and the amount of that guarantee has been approved by the Secretary of State in 
respect of the liabilities of the undertaker to pay compensation under this Order in respect of 
the exercise of the relevant power in relation to that land; or 
(b) an alternative form of security and the amount of that security for that purpose has been 
approved by the Secretary of State in respect of the liabilities of the undertaker to pay 
compensation under this Order in respect of the exercise of the relevant power in relation to 
that land. 
(2) The provisions are— 
(a) article 19 (compulsory acquisition of land); 
(b) article 23 (compulsory acquisition of rights etc.); 
(c) article 24 (private rights); 
(d) article 26 (acquisition of subsoil only); 
(e) article 28 (rights under or over streets); 
(f) article 29 (temporary use of land in connection with the carrying out of the authorised 
development); 
(g) article 30 (temporary use of land for maintaining the authorised development); and 
(h) article 31 (statutory undertakers). 
(3) A guarantee or alternative form of security given in respect of any liability of the undertaker 
to pay compensation pursuant to the provisions referred to in paragraph (2) is to be treated as 
enforceable against the guarantor or person providing the alternative form of security by any 
person to whom such compensation is payable and must be in such form as to be capable of 
enforcement by such a person. 
(4) Nothing in this article requires a guarantee or alternative form of security to be in place for 
more than 15 years after the date on which the relevant power is exercised. 
PART 6 
OPERATIONS 
Felling or lopping of trees and removal of hedgerows 
35.—(1) The undertaker may fell or lop any tree or shrub within or overhanging land within 
the Order land or cut back its roots, if it reasonably believes it to be necessary to do so to prevent 
the tree or shrub— 
(a) from obstructing or interfering with the construction, maintenance or operation of the 
authorised development or any apparatus used in connection with the authorised 
development; or 
(b) from constituting a danger to persons using the authorised development. 
                                                                                                                                       
(a) 2003 c. 21. Section 151(1) was amended by paragraphs 90(a)(i), (ii), (iii), 90(b), 90(c) and 90(d) of Schedule 1 to the 
Electronic Communications and Wireless Telegraphy Regulations 2011/1210 
 
 
52
(2) In carrying out any activity authorised by paragraph (1) and paragraph (4), the undertaker 
must do no unnecessary damage to any tree or shrub and must pay compensation to any person for 
any loss or damage arising from such activity. 
(3) Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (2), or as to the 
amount of compensation, is to be determined under Part 1 of the 1961 Act. 
(4) The undertaker may, for the purposes of the authorised development subject to paragraph 
(2), remove any hedgerows within the Order land that may be required (a) for the purposes of 
carrying out the authorised development; and (b) remove the important hedgerows as are within 
the Order land and specified in Schedule 10 (Removal of Hedgerows). 
(5) In this article “hedgerow” has the same meaning as in the Hedgerows Regulations 1997(a). 
PART 7 
MISCELLANEOUS AND GENERAL 
Application of landlord and tenant law 
(4) In this paragraph— 
“public communications provider” has the same meaning as in section 151(1) of the 
Communications Act 2003; and 
“public utility undertaker” has the same meaning as in the 1980 Act. 
Railway and navigation undertakings 
34.—(1) Subject to the following provisions of this article, the undertaker may not 
under article 
8 (street works) break up or open a street where the street, not being a highway 
maintainable at 
public expense (within the meaning of the 1980 Act)— 
(a) is under the control or management of, or is maintainable by, railway or tramway 
undertakers or a navigation authority; or 
(b) forms part of a level crossing belonging to any such undertakers or to such an 
authority or 
to any other person, 
except with the consent of the undertakers or authority or, as the case may be, of the 
person to 
whom the level crossing belongs. 
(2) Paragraph (1) shall not apply to the carrying out under this Order of emergency 
works, 
within the meaning of Part 3 of the 1991 Act. 
(3) A consent given for the purpose of paragraph (1) may be made subject to such 
reasonable 
conditions as may be specified by the person giving it but shall not be unreasonably 
withheld. 
(4) In this paragraph “navigation authority” means any person who has a duty or 
power under 
any enactment to work, maintain, conserve, improve or control any canal or other 
inland 
navigation, navigable river, estuary or harbour. 
Application of landlord and tenant law 
                                                                                                                                       
(a) S.I. 1997/1160. 
 
 
53
36.35.—(1) —(1) This article applies to— 
(a) (a) any agreement for leasing to any person the whole or any part of the authorised project 
development or the right to operate the same; and 
(b) (b) any agreement entered into by the undertaker with any person for the construction, 
maintenance, use or operation of the authorised projectdevelopment, or any part of it, 
so far as any such agreement relates to the terms on which any land which is the subject of a lease 
granted by or under that agreement is to be provided for that person’s use. 
 23 
(2) (2) No enactment or rule of law regulating the rights and obligations of landlords and tenants 
prejudices the operation of any agreement to which this article applies. 
shall prejudice the operation of any agreement to which this article applies. 
(3) (3) Accordingly, no such enactment or rule of law shall apply in relation to the rights 
andapplies in relation to the rights and obligations of the parties to any lease granted by or under 
any such agreement so as to— 
(a) exclude or in any respect modify any of the rights and obligations of those parties under the 
terms of the lease, whether with respect to the termination of the tenancy or any other matter; 
obligations of the parties to any lease granted by or under any such agreement so as 
to— 
(a) exclude or in any respect modify any of the rights and obligations of those parties 
under 
the terms of the lease, whether with respect to the termination of the tenancy or any 
other 
matter; 
(b) (b) confer or impose on any such party any right or obligation arising out of or connected 
with anything done or omitted on or in relation to land which is the subject of the lease, in 
addition to any such right or obligation provided for by the terms of the lease; or 
(c) restrict the enforcement (whether by action for damages or otherwise) by any party 
to the 
lease of any obligation of any other party under the lease. 
(c) restrict the enforcement (whether by action for damages or otherwise) by any party to the 
lease of any obligation of any other party under the lease. 
Operational land for the purposes of the 1990 Act 
37.36.  Development consent granted by this Order shall is to be treated as specific planning 
permission for the purposes of section 264(3)(a) of the 1990 Act (cases in which land is to be 
treated as not being operational land). 
Defence to proceedings in respect of statutory nuisance 
38.—(1) Where proceedings are brought under section 82(1) of the Environmental Protection 
Act 1990(a) (summary proceedings by persons aggrieved by statutory nuisances) in relation to a 
nuisance falling within paragraph (g) of section 79(1) of that Act (noise emitted from premises so 
as to be prejudicial to health or a nuisance) no order is to be made, and no fine may be imposed, 
under section 82(2) of that Act if the defendant shows that the nuisance— 
(a) relates to premises used by the undertaker for the purposes of or in connection with the 
construction or maintenance of the authorised development and that the nuisance is 
attributable to the carrying out of the authorised development in accordance with a notice 
served under section 60 (control of noise on construction sites), or a consent given under 
                                                                                                                                       
(a) 1990 c.43. Section 82 was amended by section 103 of the Clean Neighbourhoods and Environment Act 2005 (c.16); Section 
79 was amended by sections 101 and 102 of the same Act. There are other amendments not relevant to this Order. 
 
 
54
section 61 (prior consent for work on construction sites), of the Control of Pollution Act 
1974(a); or 
(b) is a consequence of the construction or maintenance of the authorised development and that it 
cannot reasonably be avoided; or 
(c) is a consequence of the use of the authorised development and that it cannot reasonably be 
avoided. 
(2) Section 61(9) (consent for work on construction site to include statement that it does not of 
itself constitute a defence to proceedings under section 82 of the Environmental Protection Act 
1990) of the Control of Pollution Act 1974 does not apply where the consent relates to the use of 
premises by the undertaker for the purposes of or in connection with the construction or 
maintenance of the authorised development. 
Protective provisions 
39. Schedule 11 (protective provisions) has effect. 
Certification of plans etc. 
40.—(1) The undertaker must, as soon as practicable after the making of this Order, submit to 
the Secretary of State copies of— 
(a) the book of reference; 
(b) design principles statement; 
(c) the environmental statement; 
(d) the land plans; 
(e) the rights of way, streets and access plan; and 
(f) the works plans; 
(g) outline construction environment management plan; 
(h) outline construction traffic management plan; 
(i) outline landscape and ecological mitigation strategy; 
(j) outline lighting strategy; 
(k) outline construction staff travel plan; 
(l) outline surface water management plan; 
(m) outline drainage strategy; 
(n) flood consequences assessment; and 
(o) hedgerow plan, 
for certification that they are true copies of the documents referred to in this Order. 
operational land for the purposes of that Act). 
Deemed consent under section 34 of the Coast Protection Act 1949 
37. The undertaker is granted deemed consent under section 34 of the Coast 
Protection Act 
1949(a) to carry out the works described in Schedule H, subject to the requirements 
set out in that 
Schedule. 
Deemed licence under Part 2 of the Food and Environment Protection Act 1985 
                                                                                                                                       
(a) 1974 c.40. Section 60 was amended by section 7(3)(a)(4)(g) of the Public Health (Control of Disease) Act 1984 (c.22) and 
section 112(1)(3), paragraphs 33 and 35 of Schedule 17, and paragraph 1(1)(xxvii) of Schedule 16 to the Electricity Act 
1989 (c.29); Section 61 was amended by section 133 and Schedule 7 to the Building Act 1984 (c.55), Schedule 24 to the 
Environment Act 1995 (c.25), and section 162(1) of and paragraph 15(3) of Schedule 15 to the Environmental Protection 
Act 1990 (c.43). There are other amendments not relevant to this Order. 
 
 
55
38. The undertaker is granted a deemed licence under Part 2 of the Food and 
Environment 
Protection Act 1985(b) to carry out the works described in Schedule I, subject to the 
requirements 
set out in that Schedule. 
Felling or lopping of trees 
39.—(1) The undertaker may fell or lop any tree or shrub near any part of the 
authorised project, 
or cut back its roots, if it reasonably believes it to be necessary to do so to prevent the 
tree or 
shrub— 
(a) from obstructing or interfering with the construction, maintenance or operation of 
the 
authorised project or any apparatus used in connection with the authorised project; or 
(b) from constituting a danger to passengers or other persons using the authorised 
project. 
(2) In carrying out any activity authorised by paragraph (1), the undertaker shall do no 
unnecessary damage to any tree or shrub and shall pay compensation to any person 
for any loss or 
damage arising from such activity. 
(3) Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (2), or 
as to the 
amount of compensation, shall be determined under Part 1 of the 1961 Act. 
(a) 1949 c.74. Section 34 has been amended by section 36 of the Merchant Shipping 
Act 1988 (c.12). There are other 
amendments to the 1949 Act which are not relevant to this Order. 
(b) 1985 c.48. Sections 5 and 6 in Part 2 have been amended by sections 146(2) and 
162 of, and Part 8 of Schedule 16 to, the 
Environmental Protection Act 1990 (c. 43). There are other amendments to the 1985 
Act which are not relevant to this 
Order.  
 24 
Trees subject to tree preservation orders 
40.—(1) The undertaker may fell or lop any tree described in Schedule J [and 
identified on the 
[insert name] plan, or cut back its roots if it reasonably believes it to be necessary in 
order to do so 
to prevent the tree or shrub— 
(a) from obstructing or interfering with the construction, maintenance or operation of 
the 
authorised project or any apparatus used in connection with the authorised project; or 
(b) from constituting a danger to passengers or other persons using the authorised 
project. 
(2) In carrying out any activity authorised by paragraph (1)— 
(a) the undertaker shall do no unnecessary damage to any tree or shrub and shall pay 
compensation to any person for any loss or damage arising from such activity; and 
(b) the duty contained in section 206(1) of the 1990 Act (replacement of trees) shall 
not 
apply. 
 
 
56
(3) The authority given by paragraph (1) shall constitute a deemed consent under the 
relevant 
tree preservation order. 
(4) Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (2), or 
as to the 
amount of compensation, shall be determined under Part 1 of the 1961 Act. 
Certification of plans etc 
41.—(1) The undertaker shall, as soon as practicable after the making of this Order, 
submit to 
the decision-maker copies of— 
(a) the book of reference; 
(b) the land plan; 
(c) the rights plan; 
(d) the works plan; 
(e) the sections; and 
(f) any other plans or documents referred to in this Order, 
for certification that they are true copies of the documents referred to in this Order. 
(2) (2) A plan or document so certified shall be admissible in any proceedings as evidence of 
theis to be admissible in any proceedings as evidence of the contents of the document of which it 
is a copy. 
Service of notices 
41.—(1) A notice or other document required or authorised to be served for the purposes of 
this Order may be served— 
(a) by post; 
(b) by delivering it to the person on whom it is to be served or to whom it is to be given or 
supplied; or 
(c) with the consent of the recipient and subject to paragraphs (6) to (8), by electronic 
transmission. 
(2) Where the person on whom a notice or other document to be served for the purposes of this 
Order is a body corporate, the notice or document is duly served if it is served on the secretary or 
clerk of that body. 
(3) For the purposes of section 7 of the Interpretation Act 1978(a) as it applies for the purposes 
of this article, the proper address of any person in relation to the service on that person of a notice 
or document under paragraph (1) is, if that person has given an address for service, that address 
and otherwise— 
(a) in the case of the secretary of clerk of that body corporate, the registered or principal office of 
that body, and 
(b) in any other case, the last known address of that person at that time of service. 
(4) Where for the purposes of this Order a notice or other document is required or authorised to 
be served on a person as having an interest in, or as the occupier of, land and the name or address 
of that person cannot be ascertained after reasonable enquiry, the notice may be served by— 
(a) addressing it to that person by the description of “owner”, or as the case may be “occupier” of 
the land (describing it); and 
(b) either leaving it in the hands of the person who is or appears to be resident or employed on 
the land or leaving it conspicuously affixed to some building or object on or near the land. 
                                                                                                                                       
(a) 1978 c.30. Section 7 was amended by section 144 and paragraph 19 of Schedule 10 to the Road Traffic Regulation Act 
1984 (c.27). There are other amendments not relevant to this Order. 
 
 
57
(5) Where a notice or other document required to be served or sent for the purposes of this Order 
is served or sent by electronic transmission the requirement is to be taken to be fulfilled only 
where— 
(a) the recipient of the notice or other document to be transmitted has given consent to the use of 
electronic transmission in writing or by electronic transmission; 
(b) the notice or document is capable of being accessed by the recipient; 
(c) the notice or document is legible in all material respects; and 
(d) in a form sufficiently permanent to be used for subsequent reference. 
(6) Where the recipient of a notice or other document served or sent by electronic transmission 
notifies the sender within seven days of receipt that the recipient requires a paper copy of all or 
any part of that notice or other document the sender must provide such a copy as soon as 
reasonably practicable. 
(7) Any consent to the use of an electronic transmission by a person may be revoked by that 
person in accordance with paragraph (8). 
(8) Where a person is no longer willing to accept the use of electronic transmission for any of 
the purposes of this Order— 
(a) that person must give notice in writing or by electronic transmission revoking any consent 
given by that person for that purpose; and 
(b) such revocation is final and takes effect on a date specified by the person in the notice but that 
date must not be less than 7 days after the date on which the notice is given. 
(9) This article does not exclude the employment of any method of service not expressly 
provided for by it. 
Procedure in relation to certain approvals 
42.—(1) Where an application is made to or a request is made of the relevant planning 
authority, highway authority, traffic authority, street authority, or the owner of a watercourse, 
sewer or drain for any consent, agreement or approval required or contemplated by any of the 
provisions of the Order (not including the requirements), such consent, agreement or approval to 
be validly given, must be given in writing and must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed. 
(2) Any consent, agreement or approval given under paragraph (1) above may be given subject 
to conditions. 
(3) Schedule 12 (procedure for discharge of requirements) has effect in relation to all consents, 
agreements or approvals granted, refused or withheld in relation to the requirements in Schedule 2 
(requirements). 
(4) Save for applications made pursuant to Schedule 12 (procedure for discharge of 
requirements), if, within eight weeks after the application or request has been submitted to an 
authority or an owner as referred to in paragraph (1) of this article (or such longer period as may 
be agreed with the undertaker in writing) it has not notified the undertaker of its disapproval and 
the grounds of disapproval, it is deemed to have approved the application or request. 
(5) The procedure set out in paragraph 3 of Schedule 12 (procedure for discharge of 
requirements) has effect in relation to any refusal by an authority or an owner as referred to in 
paragraph (1) of this article to any consent, agreement or approval required under this Order, as if 
such a refusal were in respect of an application to discharge a requirement. 
(6) Where any application is made as described in paragraph (1), the undertaker must include a 
statement in such application that refers to the timeframe for consideration of the application and 
the consequences of failure to meet that timeframe as prescribed by paragraph (4). 
contents of the document of which it is a copy. 
Arbitration 
 
 
58
43.42—(1) Any difference under any provision of this Order, unless otherwise provided for, 
shall is to be referred to and settled by a single arbitrator to be agreed between the parties or, 
failing agreement, to be appointed on the application of either party (after giving notice in 
writing to the other) by the Secretary of State. 
[insert appropriate body]. 
Schedule A 
AUTHORISED PROJECT 
Part 1 
AUTHORISED DEVELOPMENT 
[NOTE: This Part should describe as fully as possible the elements of the proposed 
project 
(including any associated development), which are development for the purposes of 
section 32 of 
the 2008 Act, for which development consent is sought. ,It should not include any 
elements of 
development which would be authorised by specific provisions in the Order.]  
 25 
Part 2 
ANCILLARY WORKS 
[NOTE: This Part should describe as fully as possible the ancillary works for which 
consent is 
sought and which are not development within the meaning of section 32 of the 2008 
Act and which 
would not be the subject of a separate provision [article] in this Order.] 
Schedule B 
STREETS SUBJECT TO STREET WORKS 
(1) (2) 
Area Street subject to street works 
Schedule C 
STREETS TO BE STOPPED UP 
Part 1 
STREETS FOR WHICH A SUBSTITUTE IS TO BE PROVIDED 
(1) (2) (3) (4) 
Area Street to be stopped 
up 
Extent of stopping up New street to be 
substituted 
Part 2 
STREETS FOR WHICH NO SUBSTITUTE IS TO BE PROVIDED 
(1) (2) (3) 
Area Street to be stopped up Extent of stopping up 
Schedule D 
STREETS TO BE TEMPORARILY STOPPED UP 
(1) (2) (3) 
Area Street to be temporarily 
stopped up 
Extent of temporary stopping 
up 
Schedule E 
ACCESS TO WORKS 
(1) (2) 
 
 
59
Area Description of access  
 26 
Schedule F 
LAND OF WHICH ONLY SUBSOIL MORE THAN 9 METRES BENEATH 
SURFACE MAY BE ACQUIRED 
(1) (2) 
Area Number of land shown on land plan 
Schedule G 
LAND OF WHICH TEMPORARY POSSESSION MAY BE TAKEN 
(1) (2) (3) (4) 
Area Number of land shown 
on land plan 
Purpose for which 
temporary possession 
may be taken 
Relevant part of the 
Authorised project 
Schedule H 
DEEMED CONSENT UNDER COAST PROTECTION ACT 1949 
[Insert details of deemed consent] 
Schedule I 
DEEMED LICENCE UNDER THE FOOD AND ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION 
ACT 1985 
[Insert details of deemed licence] 
Schedule J 
TREES SUBJECT TO TREE PRESERVATION ORDERS 
(1) (2) (3) 
Type of tree Number[reference] of tree 
shown on land plan 
Work to be carried out 
 SCHEDULE 2 Article 2 
Model provisions for railways 
CONTENTS 
Preliminary 
1. Interpretation 
2. Incorporation of the Railway Clauses Acts  
 27 
(2) 3Should the Secretary of State fail to appoint an arbitrator under paragraph (1) within 14 
days of the application, the referring party may refer to the Centre of Effective Dispute Resolution 
for appointment of an arbitrator. 
Application and modification of legislative provisions 
“Order land” means the land shown on the land plan which is within the limits of land 
to be 
acquired and described in the book of reference; 
(a) 1965 c.56. Section 3 was amended by section 70 of, and paragraph 3 of Schedule 
15 to, the Planning and Compensation 
Act 1991(c.34). Section 4 was amended by section 3 of, and Part 1 of Schedule 1 to, 
the Housing (Consequential 
 
 
60
Provisions) Act 1985 (c.71). Section 5 was amended by sections 67 and 80 of, and 
Part 2 of Schedule 18 to, the Planning 
and Compensation Act 1991 (c.34). Subsection (1) of section 11 and sections 3, 31 
and 32 were amended by section 34(1) 
of, and Schedule 4 to, the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 (c.67) and by section 14 of, 
and paragraph 12(1) of Schedule 5 to, 
the Church of England (Miscellaneous Provisions) Measure 2006 (2006 No.1). 
Section 12 was amended by section 56(2) 
of, and Part 1 to Schedule 9 to, the Courts Act 1971 (c.23). Section 13 was amended 
by section 139 of the Tribunals, 
Courts and Enforcement Act 2007 (c.15). Section 20 was amended by section 70 of, 
and paragraph 14 of Schedule 15 to, 
the Planning and Compensation Act 1991 (c.34). Sections 9, 25 and 29 were amended 
by the Statute Law (Repeals) Act 
1973 (c.39). Section 31 was also amended by section 70 of, and paragraph 19 of 
Schedule15 to, the Planning and 
Compensation Act 1991 (c.34) and by section 14 of, and paragraph 12(2) of Schedule 
5 to, the Church of England 
(Miscellaneous Provisions) Measure 2006 (2006 No.1). There are other amendments 
to the 1965 Act which are not relevant 
to this Order. 
(b) 1980 c.66. Section 1(1) was amended by section 21(2) of the New Roads and 
Street Works Act 1991 (c.22); sections 1(2), 
1(3) and1 (4) were amended by section 8 of, and paragraph (1) of Schedule 4 to, the 
Local Government Act 1985 (c.51); 
section 1(2A) was inserted, and section 1(3) was amended, by section 259 (1), (2) and 
(3) of the Greater London Authority 
Act 1999 (c.29); sections 1(3A) and 1(5) were inserted by section 22(1) of, and 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 7 to, the Local 
Government (Wales) Act 1994 (c.19). Section 36(2) was amended by section 4(1) of, 
and paragraphs 47(a) and (b) of 
Schedule 2 to, the Housing (Consequential Provisions) Act 1985 (c.71), by S.I. 
2006/1177, by section 4 of, and paragraph 
45(3) of Schedule 2 to, the Planning (Consequential Provisions) Act 1990 (c.11), by 
section 64(1) (2) and (3) of the 
Transport and Works Act (c.42) and by section 57 of, and paragraph 5 of Part 1 of 
Schedule 6 to, the Countryside and 
Rights of Way Act 2000 (c.37); section 36(3A) was inserted by section 64(4) of the 
Transport and Works Act 1992 and was 
amended by S.I. 2006/1177; section 36(6) was amended by section 8 of, and 
paragraph 7 of Schedule 4 to, the Local 
Government Act 1985 (c.51); and section 36(7) was inserted by section 22(1) of, and 
paragraph 4 of Schedule 7 to, the 
Local Government (Wales) Act 1994 (c.19). Section 329 was amended by section 
112(4) of, and Schedule 18 to, the 
Electricity Act 1989 (c.29) and by section 190(3) of, and Part 1 of Schedule 27 to, the 
Water Act 1989 (c.15). There are 
other amendments to the 1980 Act which are not relevant to this Order. 
(c) 1990 c.8. Section 206(1) was amended by section 192(8) of, and paragraphs 7 and 
11 of Schedule 8 to, the Planning Act 
 
 
61
2008 (c29) (date in force to be appointed see section 241(3), (4)(a), (c) of the 2008 
Act). There are other amendments to the 
1990 Act which are not relevant to this Order. 
(d) 1991 c.22. Section 48(3A) was inserted by section 124 of the Local Transport Act 
2008 (c.26). Sections 79(4), 80(4), and 
83(4) were amended by section 40 of, and Schedule 1 to, the Traffic Management Act 
2004 (c.18). 
(e) 2008 c.29.  
 5 
“the Order limits” means the limits shown on the works plan within which the 
authorised 
project may be carried out; 
“owner”, in relation to land, has the same meaning as in section 7 of the Acquisition 
of Land 
Act 1981(a); 
“relevant planning authority” means— 
(i) the district planning authority for the area in which the land to which the provisions 
of this Order apply is situated unless the provisions relate to the construction or 
alteration of a hazardous waste facility, in which case it means the county planning 
authority; 
(ii) a National Park Authority; 
(iii) the Broads Authority; and 
(iv) the Greater London Authority if the land to which the provisions of this Order or 
requirements apply is situated in Greater London; 
“rights plan” means the plan certified as the rights plan by the decision-maker for the 
purposes 
of this Order; 
“the sections” means the sections shown on the plan certified as the section drawings 
plan by 
the decision-maker for the purposes of this Order; 
“statutory undertaker” means any person falling within section 127(8), 128(5) or 
129(2) of the 
2008 Act; 
“street” means a street within the meaning of section 48 of the 1991 Act, together 
with land on 
the verge of a street or between two carriageways, and includes part of a street; 
“street authority”, in relation to a street, has the same meaning as in Part 3 of the 1991 
Act; 
“tree preservation order” has the meaning given in section 198 of the 1990 Act; 
“the tribunal” means the Lands Chamber of the Upper Tribunal; 
“undertaker” means the person who has the benefit of this Order in accordance with 
section 
156 of the 2008 Act; 
“watercourse” includes all rivers, streams, ditches, drains, canals, cuts, culverts, 
dykes, 
sluices, sewers and passages through which water flows except a public sewer or 
drain; and 
“the works plan” means the plan certified as the works plan by the decision-maker for 
the 
purposes of this Order. 
 
 
62
(2) References in this Order to rights over land include references to rights to do or to 
place and 
maintain, anything in, on or under land or in the air-space above its surface. 
(3) All distances, directions and lengths referred to in this Order are approximate and 
distances 
between points on a work comprised in the authorised project shall be taken to be 
measured along 
that work. 
[NOTE: In the case of off-shore development, which is outside the area of any 
planning authority, 
it will be necessary to identify another appropriate body as the relevant planning 
authority.] 
Development consent etc. granted by the Order 
2. Subject to the provisions of this Order and to the requirements in the Schedule 
(requirements) 
attached to this Order the undertaker is granted— 
(a) development consent for the authorised development; and 
(b) consent for the ancillary works, 
to be carried out within the Order limits. 
(a) 1981 c.67. Section 7 was amended by section 70 of, and paragraph 9 of Schedule 
15 to, the Planning and Compensation 
Act 1991 (c.34). There are other amendments to the 1981 Act which are not relevant 
to this Order.  
 6 
Maintenance of authorised project 
3. The undertaker may at any time maintain the authorised project, except to the 
extent that this 
Order or an agreement made under this Order, provides otherwise. 
Benefit of Order 
4. Subject to article 5 (consent to transfer benefit of Order), the provisions of articles [ 
] and [ ] 
[specify relevant articles] shall have effect solely for the benefit of [specify person, 
body or class 
of person]. 
[NOTE: This article is required where provisions of the Order are specific to a named 
undertaker 
or class of undertaker (see section 156(2) of the 2008 Act).] 
Consent to transfer benefit of Order 
5.—(1) The undertaker may, with the consent of the [specify person or body]— 
(a) transfer to another person (“the transferee”) any or all of the benefit of the 
provisions of 
this Order and such related statutory rights as may be agreed between the undertaker 
and 
the transferee; or 
(b) grant to another person (“the lessee”) for a period agreed between the undertaker 
and the 
lessee any or all of the benefit of the provisions of this Order and such related 
statutory 
rights as may be so agreed. 
 
 
63
(2) Where an agreement has been made in accordance with paragraph (1) references 
in this 
Order to the undertaker, except in paragraph (3), shall include references to the 
transferee or the 
lessee. 
(3) The exercise by a person of any benefits or rights conferred in accordance with 
any transfer 
or grant under paragraph (1) shall be subject to the same restrictions, liabilities and 
obligations as 
would apply under this Order if those benefits or rights were exercised by the 
undertaker. 
Application and modification of legislative provisions 
6.—(1) Subject to the modifications set out in paragraph (2) the following provisions 
of the 
[insert short title of the relevant Act] shall be incorporated in this Order— 
(a) section[s] X [specify relevant section(s)]. 
(2) The modifications are: [insert relevant modifications]. 
(3) In construing the [insert short title of the relevant Act] as incorporated the 
following 
expressions shall have the following meanings: [insert relevant expressions and 
definitions] 
Defence to proceedings in respect of statutory nuisance 
7.—(1) Where proceedings are brought under section 82(1) of the Environmental 
Protection Act 
1990(a) (summary proceedings by person aggrieved by statutory nuisance) in relation 
to a 
nuisance falling within paragraph (g) of section 79(1) of that Act (noise emitted from 
premises so 
as to be prejudicial to health or a nuisance) no order shall be made, and no fine may 
be imposed, 
under section 82(2) of that Act if— 
(a) the defendant shows that the nuisance— 
(i) relates to premises used by the undertaker for the purposes of or in connection with 
the construction or maintenance of the authorised project and that the nuisance is 
attributable to the carrying out of the authorised project in accordance with a notice 
served under section 60 (control of noise on construction site), or a consent given 
(a) 1990 c.43. There are amendments to this Act which are not relevant to this Order.  
 7 
under section 61 (prior consent for work on construction site) or 65 (noise exceeding 
registered level), of the Control of Pollution Act 1974(a); or 
(ii) is a consequence of the construction or maintenance of the authorised project and 
that it cannot reasonably be avoided; or 
(b) the defendant shows that the nuisance— 
(i) relates to premises used by the undertaker for the purposes of or in connection with 
the use of the authorised project and that the nuisance is attributable to the use of the 
authorised project which is being used in accordance with a scheme of monitoring 
and attenuation of noise agreed with the Commission as described in requirement 25; 
or 
(ii) is a consequence of the use of the authorised project and that it cannot reasonably 
be 
 
 
64
avoided. 
(2) Section 61(9) (consent for work on construction site to include statement that it 
does not of 
itself constitute a defence to proceedings under section 82 of the Environmental 
Protection Act 
1990) of the Control of Pollution Act 1974 and section 65(8) of that Act 
(corresponding provision 
in relation to consent for registered noise level to be exceeded), shall not apply where 
the consent 
relates to the use of premises by the undertaker for the purposes of or in connection 
with the 
construction or maintenance of the authorised project. 
Street works 
8.—(1) The undertaker may, for the purposes of the authorised project, enter on so 
much of any 
of the streets specified in Schedule B (streets subject to street works) as is within the 
Order limits 
and may— 
(a) break up or open the street, or any sewer, drain or tunnel under it; 
(b) tunnel or bore under the street; 
(c) place apparatus in the street; 
(d) maintain apparatus in the street or change its position; and 
(e) execute any works required for or incidental to any works referred to in sub-
paragraphs 
(a), (b), (c) and (d). 
(2) The authority given by paragraph (1) is a statutory right for the purposes of 
sections 48(3) 
(streets, street works and undertakers) and 51(1) (prohibition of unauthorised street 
works) of the 
1991 Act. 
(3) The provisions of sections 54 to 106 of the 1991 Act apply to any street works 
carried out 
under paragraph (1). 
(4) In this article “apparatus” has the same meaning as in Part 3 of the 1991 Act. 
[NOTE: This article should not be used for the purposes of authorising street works 
that affect a 
trunk road (as defined in the 1980 Act); no trunk roads should be specified in 
Schedule B (streets 
subject to street works). For any street works affecting a trunk road the undertaker 
should make 
an application for a licence under section 50 of the 1991 Act.] 
Stopping up of streets 
9.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this article, the undertaker may, in connection 
with the 
carrying out of the authorised project, stop up each of the streets specified in columns 
(1) and (2) 
of Parts 1 and 2 of Schedule C (streets to be stopped up) to the extent specified, by 
reference to the 
letters and numbers shown on the works plan, in column (3) of those Parts of that 
Schedule. 
 
 
65
(a) 1974 c.40. Sections 61(9) and 65(8) were amended by section 162 of, and 
paragraph 15 of Schedule 3 to, the 
Environmental Protection Act 1990, c.25. There are other amendments to the 1974 
Act which are not relevant to this Order.  
 8 
(2) No street specified in columns (1) and (2) of Part 1 of Schedule C (being a street 
to be 
stopped up for which a substitute is to be provided) shall be wholly or partly stopped 
up under this 
article unless— 
(a) the new street to be substituted for it, which is specified in column (4) of that Part 
of that 
Schedule, has been completed to the reasonable satisfaction of the street authority and 
is 
open for use; or 
(b) a temporary alternative route for the passage of such traffic as could have used the 
street 
to be stopped up is first provided and subsequently maintained by the undertaker, to 
the 
reasonable satisfaction of the street authority, between the commencement and 
termination points for the stopping up of the street until the completion and opening 
of 
the new street in accordance with sub-paragraph (a). 
(3) No street specified in columns (1) and (2) of Part 2 of Schedule C (being a street 
to be 
stopped up for which no substitute is to be provided) shall be wholly or partly stopped 
up under 
this article unless the condition specified in paragraph (4) is satisfied in relation to all 
the land 
which abuts on either side of the street to be stopped up. 
(4) The condition referred to in paragraph (3) is that— 
(a) the undertaker is in possession of the land; or 
(b) there is no right of access to the land from the street concerned; or 
(c) there is reasonably convenient access to the land otherwise than from the street 
concerned; or 
(d) the owners and occupiers of the land have agreed to the stopping up. 
(5) Where a street has been stopped up under this article— 
(a) all rights of way over or along the street so stopped up shall be extinguished; and 
(b) the undertaker may appropriate and use for the purposes of the authorised project 
so 
much of the site of the street as is bounded on both sides by land owned by the 
undertaker. 
(6) Any person who suffers loss by the suspension or extinguishment of any private 
right of way 
under this article shall be entitled to compensation to be determined, in case of 
dispute, under Part 
1 of the 1961 Act. 
(7) This article is subject to article 32 (apparatus etc. of statutory undertakers). 
Public rights of way 
 
 
66
10.—(1) With effect from the [date of publication of this Order] [the date of 
certification by the 
local highway authority that the agreed alternative right of way has been created to the 
standard 
defined in the implementation plan], [the section of] the public right of way (being a 
[insert one 
of: footpath/bridleway/byway open to all traffic/restricted byway]) shown marked in 
[red] between 
the points [A] and [B] on the rights plan is extinguished. 
(2) With effect from [that same date] [insert later date] an alternative section of [insert 
description of right of way of that same type] as marked in [green] between the points 
[C] and [D] 
on the rights plan is created. 
(3) In this article— 
“implementation plan” means the written plan agreed between the undertaker and the 
local 
highway authority for creation of the agreed alternative right of way to the defined 
standard; 
and 
“local highway authority” has the same meaning as in section 329(1) of the 1980 Act. 
Temporary stopping up of streets 
11.—(1) The undertaker, during and for the purposes of carrying out the authorised 
project, may 
temporarily stop up, alter or divert any street and may for any reasonable time—  
 9 
(a) divert the traffic from the street; and 
(b) subject to paragraph (2), prevent all persons from passing along the street. 
(2) The undertaker shall provide reasonable access for pedestrians going to or from 
premises 
abutting a street affected by the temporary stopping up, alteration or diversion of a 
street under 
this article if there would otherwise be no such access. 
(3) Without prejudice to the generality of paragraph (1), the undertaker may 
temporarily stop up, 
alter or divert the streets specified in columns (1) and (2) of Schedule D (streets to be 
temporarily 
stopped up) to the extent specified, by reference to the letters and numbers shown on 
the works 
plan, in column (3) of that Schedule. 
(4) The undertaker shall not temporarily stop up, alter or divert— 
(a) any street specified as mentioned in paragraph (3) without first consulting the 
street 
authority; and 
(b) any other street without the consent of the street authority which may attach 
reasonable 
conditions to any consent. 
(5) Any person who suffers loss by the suspension of any private right of way under 
this article 
shall be entitled to compensation to be determined, in case of dispute, under Part 1 of 
the 1961 
 
 
67
Act. 
Access to works 
12. The undertaker may, for the purposes of the authorised project— 
(a) form and lay out means of access, or improve existing means of access, in the 
location 
specified in columns (1) and (2) of Schedule E (access to works); and 
(b) with the approval of the relevant planning authority after consultation with the 
highway 
authority, form and lay out such other means of access or improve existing means of 
access, at such locations within the Order limits as the undertaker reasonably requires 
for 
the purposes of the authorised project. 
Agreements with street authorities 
13.—(1) A street authority and the undertaker may enter into agreements with respect 
to— 
(a) the construction of any new street including any structure carrying the street over 
or 
under a [insert description of development] authorised by this Order; 
(b) the maintenance of the structure of any bridge or tunnel carrying a street over or 
under a 
[insert description of development]; 
(c) any stopping up, alteration or diversion of a street authorised by this Order; or 
(d) the carrying out in the street of any of the works referred to in article 8(1) (street 
works). 
(2) Such an agreement may, without prejudice to the generality of paragraph (1)— 
(a) make provision for the street authority to carry out any function under this Order 
which 
relates to the street in question; 
(b) include an agreement between the undertaker and street authority specifying a 
reasonable 
time for the completion of the works; and 
(c) contain such terms as to payment and otherwise as the parties consider 
appropriate. 
Discharge of water 
14.—(1) The undertaker may use any watercourse or any public sewer or drain for the 
drainage 
of water in connection with the carrying out or maintenance of the authorised project 
and for that 
purpose may lay down, take up and alter pipes and may, on any land within the Order 
limits, make 
openings into, and connections with, the watercourse, public sewer or drain.  
 10 
(2) Any dispute arising from the making of connections to or the use of a public sewer 
or drain 
by the undertaker pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be determined as if it were a dispute 
under 
section 106 of the Water Industry Act 1991(a) (right to communicate with public 
sewers). 
(3) The undertaker shall not discharge any water into any watercourse, public sewer 
or drain 
 
 
68
except with the consent of the person to whom it belongs; and such consent may be 
given subject 
to such terms and conditions as that person may reasonably impose, but shall not be 
unreasonably 
withheld. 
(4) The undertaker shall not make any opening into any public sewer or drain 
except— 
(a) in accordance with plans approved by the person to whom the sewer or drain 
belongs, but 
such approval shall not be unreasonably withheld; and 
(b) where that person has been given the opportunity to supervise the making of the 
opening. 
(5) The undertaker shall not, in carrying out or maintaining works pursuant to this 
article, 
damage or interfere with the bed or banks of any watercourse forming part of a main 
river. 
(6) The undertaker shall take such steps as are reasonably practicable to secure that 
any water 
discharged into a watercourse or public sewer or drain pursuant to this article is as 
free as may be 
practicable from gravel, soil or other solid substance, oil or matter in suspension. 
(7) This article does not authorise the entry into controlled waters of any matter whose 
entry or 
discharge into controlled waters is prohibited by section 85(1), (2) or (3) of the Water 
Resources 
Act 1991(b) (offences of polluting water). 
(8) In this article— 
(a) “public sewer or drain” means a sewer or drain which belongs to the Homes and 
Communities Agency, the Environment Agency, a harbour authority within the 
meaning 
of section 57 of the Harbours Act 1964(c) (interpretation), an internal drainage board, 
a 
joint planning board, a local authority, a National Park Authority, a sewerage 
undertaker 
or an urban development corporation; and 
(b) other expressions, excluding watercourse, used both in this article and in the Water 
Resources Act 1991 have the same meaning as in that Act. 
Protective work to buildings 
15.—(1) Subject to the following provisions of this article, the undertaker may at its 
own 
expense carry out such protective works to any building lying within the Order limits 
as the 
undertaker considers necessary or expedient. 
(2) Protective works may be carried out— 
(a) at any time before or during the carrying out in the vicinity of the building of any 
part of 
the authorised project; or 
(b) after the completion of that part of the authorised project in the vicinity of the 
building at 
 
 
69
any time up to the end of the period of 5 years beginning with the day on which that 
part 
of the authorised project is first opened for use. 
(3) For the purpose of determining how the functions under this article are to be 
exercised the 
undertaker may enter and survey any building falling within paragraph (1) and any 
land within its 
curtilage. 
(4) For the purpose of carrying out protective works under this article to a building the 
undertaker may (subject to paragraphs (5) and (6))— 
(a) enter the building and any land within its curtilage; and 
(a) 1991 c.56. Section 106 was amended by sections 36(2) and 99 of the Water Act 
2003 (c.37). There are other amendments 
to this section which are not relevant to this Order. 
(b) 1991 c.57. 1991 c.57. Section 85(1) was amended by paragraphs 21(1) and (2) of 
Part 1 of Schedule 21 to S.I. 2007/3538. 
(c) 1964 c.40. Paragraph 9B was inserted into Schedule 2 by the Transport and Works 
Act 1992 (c.42), section 63(1) and 
Schedule 3, paragraph 9(1) and (5). There are other amendments to the 1964 Act 
which are not relevant to this Order.  
 11 
(b) where the works cannot be carried out reasonably conveniently without entering 
land 
which is adjacent to the building but outside its curtilage, enter the adjacent land (but 
not 
any building erected on it). 
(5) Before exercising— 
(a) a right under paragraph (1) to carry out protective works to a building; 
(b) a right under paragraph (3) to enter a building and land within its curtilage; 
(c) a right under paragraph (4)(a) to enter a building and land within its curtilage; or 
(d) a right under paragraph (4)(b) to enter land, 
the undertaker shall, except in the case of emergency, serve on the owners and 
occupiers of the 
building or land not less than 14 days’ notice of its intention to exercise that right and, 
in a case 
falling within sub-paragraph (a) or (c), specifying the protective works proposed to be 
carried out. 
(6) Where a notice is served under paragraph (5)(a), (c) or (d), the owner or occupier 
of the 
building or land concerned may, by serving a counter-notice within the period of 10 
days 
beginning with the day on which the notice was served, require the question whether 
it is 
necessary or expedient to carry out the protective works or to enter the building or 
land to be 
referred to arbitration under article 42 (arbitration). 
(7) The undertaker shall compensate the owners and occupiers of any building or land 
in relation 
to which rights under this article have been exercised for any loss or damage arising to 
them by 
 
 
70
reason of the exercise of those rights. 
(8) Where— 
(a) protective works are carried out under this article to a building; and 
(b) within the period of 5 years beginning with the day on which the part of the 
authorised 
project carried out in the vicinity of the building is first opened for use it appears that 
the 
protective works are inadequate to protect the building against damage caused by the 
carrying out or use of that part of the authorised project, 
the undertaker shall compensate the owners and occupiers of the building for any loss 
or damage 
sustained by them. 
(9) Nothing in this article shall relieve the undertaker from any liability to pay 
compensation 
under section 10(2) of the 1965 Act (compensation for injurious affection). 
(10) Any compensation payable under paragraph (7) or (8) shall be determined, in 
case of 
dispute, under Part 1 of the 1961 Act (determination of questions of disputed 
compensation). 
(11) In this article “protective works” in relation to a building means— 
(a) underpinning, strengthening and any other works the purpose of which is to 
prevent 
damage which may be caused to the building by the carrying out, maintenance or use 
of 
the authorised project; and 
(b) any works the purpose of which is to remedy any damage which has been caused 
to the 
building by the carrying out, maintenance or use of the authorised project. 
Authority to survey and investigate the land 
16.—(1)The undertaker may for the purposes of this Order enter on any land shown 
within the 
Order limits or which may be affected by the authorised project and— 
(a) survey or investigate the land; 
(b) without prejudice to the generality of sub-paragraph (a), make trial holes in such 
positions 
on the land as the undertaker thinks fit to investigate the nature of the surface layer 
and 
subsoil and remove soil samples; 
(c) without prejudice to the generality of sub-paragraph (a), carry out ecological or 
archaeological investigations on such land; and 
(d) place on, leave on and remove from the land apparatus for use in connection with 
the 
survey and investigation of land and making of trial holes.  
 12 
(2) No land may be entered or equipment placed or left on or removed from the land 
under 
paragraph (1) unless at least 14 days’ notice has been served on every owner and 
occupier of the 
land. 
(3) Any person entering land under this article on behalf of the undertaker— 
 
 
71
(a) shall, if so required entering the land, produce written evidence of their authority 
to do so; 
and 
(b) may take with them such vehicles and equipment as are necessary to carry out the 
survey 
or investigation or to make the trial holes. 
(4) No trial holes shall be made under this article— 
(a) in land located within the highway boundary without the consent of the highway 
authority; or 
(b) in a private street without the consent of the street authority, 
but such consent shall not be unreasonably withheld. 
(5) The undertaker shall compensate the owners and occupiers of the land for any loss 
or 
damage arising by reason of the exercise of the authority conferred by this article, 
such 
compensation to be determined, in case of dispute, Part 1 (determination of questions 
of disputed 
compensation) of the 1961 Act. 
Removal of human remains 
17.—(1) In this article “the specified land” means [insert description of the land]. 
(2) Before the undertaker carries out any development or works which will or may 
disturb any 
human remains in the specified land it shall remove those human remains from the 
specified land, 
or cause them to be removed, in accordance with the following provisions of this 
article. 
(3) Before any such remains are removed from the specified land the undertaker shall 
give 
notice of the intended removal, describing the specified land and stating the general 
effect of the 
following provisions of this article, by— 
(a) publishing a notice once in each of two successive weeks in a newspaper 
circulating in 
the area of the authorised project; and 
(b) displaying a notice in a conspicuous place on or near to the specified land. 
(4) As soon as reasonably practicable after the first publication of a notice under 
paragraph (3) 
the undertaker shall send a copy of the notice to [insert relevant local authority]. 
(5) At any time within 56 days after the first publication of a notice under paragraph 
(3) any 
person who is a personal representative or relative of any deceased person whose 
remains are 
interred in the specified land may give notice in writing to the undertaker of that 
person’s intention 
to undertake the removal of the remains. 
(6) Where a person has given notice under paragraph (5), and the remains in question 
can be 
identified, that person may cause such remains to be— 
(a) removed and re-interred in any burial ground or cemetery in which burials may 
legally 
 
 
72
take place; or 
(b) removed to, and cremated in, any crematorium, 
and that person shall, as soon as reasonably practicable after such re-interment or 
cremation, 
provide to the undertaker a certificate for the purpose of enabling compliance with 
paragraph (11). 
(7) If the undertaker is not satisfied that any person giving notice under paragraph (5) 
is the 
personal representative or relative as that person claims to be, or that the remains in 
question can 
be identified, the question shall be determined on the application of either party in a 
summary 
manner by the county court, and the court may make an order specifying who shall 
remove the 
remains and as to the payment of the costs of the application. 
(8) The undertaker shall pay the reasonable expenses of removing and re-interring or 
cremating 
the remains of any deceased person under this article.  
 13 
(9) If— 
(a) within the period of 56 days referred to in paragraph (5) no notice under that 
paragraph 
has been given to the undertaker in respect of any remains in the specified land; or 
(b) such notice is given and no application is made under paragraph (7) within 56 days 
after 
the giving of the notice but the person who gave the notice fails to remove the remains 
within a further period of 56 days; or 
(c) within 56 days after any order is made by the county court under paragraph (7) any 
person, other than the undertaker, specified in the order fails to remove the remains; 
or 
(d) it is determined that the remains to which any such notice relates cannot be 
identified, 
subject to paragraph (10) the undertaker shall remove the remains and cause them to 
be re-interred 
in such burial ground or cemetery in which burials may legally take place as the 
undertaker thinks 
suitable for the purpose; and, so far as possible, remains from individual graves shall 
be re-interred 
in individual containers which shall be identifiable by a record prepared with 
reference to the 
original position of burial of the remains that they contain. 
(10) If the undertaker is satisfied that any person giving notice under paragraph (5) is 
the 
personal representative or relative as that person claims to be and that the remains in 
question can 
be identified, but that person does not remove the remains, the undertaker shall 
comply with any 
reasonable request that person may make in relation to the removal and re-interment 
or cremation 
of the remains. 
 
 
73
(11) On the re-interment or cremation of any remains under this article— 
(a) a certificate of re-interment or cremation shall be sent by the undertaker to the 
Registrar 
General by the undertaker giving the date of re-interment or cremation and identifying 
the 
place from which the remains were removed and the place in which they were re-
interred 
or cremated; and 
(b) a copy of the certificate of re-interment or cremation and the record mentioned in 
paragraph (9) shall be sent by the undertaker to [insert relevant local authority] 
mentioned in paragraph (4). 
(12) The removal of the remains of any deceased person under this article shall be 
carried out in 
accordance with any directions which may be given by the Secretary of State. 
(13) Any jurisdiction or function conferred on the county court by this article may be 
exercised 
by the district judge of the court. 
(14) Section 25 of the Burial Act 1857(a) (bodies not to be removed from burial 
grounds, save 
under faculty, without licence of Secretary of State) shall not apply to a removal 
carried out in 
accordance with this article. 
Compulsory acquisition of land 
18.—(1) The undertaker may acquire compulsorily so much of the Order land as is 
required for 
the authorised project [or to facilitate, or is incidental, to it][or is required as 
replacement land]. 
(2) As from the date on which a compulsory acquisition notice under section 134(3) 
of the 2008 
Act is served or the date on which the Order land, or any part of it, is vested in the 
undertaker, 
whichever is the later, that land or that part of it which is vested (as the case may be) 
shall be 
discharged from all rights, trusts and incidents to which it was previously subject. 
(3) Any person who suffers loss by the extinguishment or suspension of any private 
right of way 
under this article shall be entitled to compensation to be determined, in case of 
dispute, under Part 
1 of the 1961 Act. 
(4) This article is subject to article 25 (acquisition of land limited to subsoil lying 
more than 9 
metres beneath surface) and article 28 (temporary use of land for carrying out the 
authorised 
project). 
 
(a) 1857 c.81. There are amendments to this Act which are not relevant to this Order.  
 14 
Compulsory acquisition of land – incorporation of the mineral code 
19. [Part(s)] 2 [and 3] of Schedule 2 to the Acquisition of Land Act 1981(a)(minerals) 
[is/are] 
 
 
74
incorporated in this Order subject to the modifications that— 
(a) paragraph 8(3) is not incorporated; 
(b) for “the acquiring authority” substitute “the undertaker”; 
(c) [insert additional modifications]. 
Time limit for exercise of authority to acquire land compulsorily 
20.—(1) After the end of the period of [5 years] beginning on the day on which this 
Order is 
made— 
(a) no notice to treat shall be served under Part 1 of the 1965 Act; and 
(b) no declaration shall be executed under section 4 of the Compulsory Purchase 
(Vesting 
Declarations) Act 1981 as applied by article 23 (application of the Compulsory 
Purchase 
(Vesting Declarations) Act 1981)(b). 
(2) The authority conferred by article 28 (temporary use of land for carrying out the 
authorised 
project) shall cease at the end of the period referred to in paragraph (1), save that 
nothing in this 
paragraph shall prevent the undertaker remaining in possession of land after the end of 
that period, 
if the land was entered and possession was taken before the end of that period. 
Compulsory acquisition of rights 
21.—(1) The undertaker may acquire compulsorily the existing rights and create and 
acquire 
compulsorily the new rights described in the book of reference and shown on the 
{insert name] 
plan. 
(2) As from the date on which a compulsory acquisition notice is served or the date on 
which 
any new right is vested in the undertaker, whichever is the later, the land over which 
any new 
rights is acquired shall be discharged from all rights, trusts and incidents to which it 
was 
previously subject so far as their continuance would be inconsistent with the exercise 
of that new 
right. 
(3) Subject to section 8 of the 1965 Act, as substituted by article 26 (acquisition of 
part of 
certain properties), where the undertaker acquires an existing right over land under 
paragraph (1), 
the undertaker shall not be required to acquire a greater interest in that land. 
(4) Any person who suffers loss as a result of the extinguishment or suspension of any 
private 
right of way under this article shall be entitled to compensation to be determined, in 
case of 
dispute, under Part 1 of the 1961 Act. 
Private rights of way 
22.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights of way over land 
subject to 
compulsory acquisition under this Order shall be extinguished— 
 
 
75
(a) as from the date of acquisition of the land by the undertaker, whether compulsorily 
or by 
agreement; or 
(b) on the date of entry on the land by the undertaker under section 11(1) of the 1965 
Act 
(power of entry), 
whichever is the earlier. 
 
(a) 1981 c.67. Sub-paragraph (5) of paragraph 1 of Part 1 of Schedule 2 was amended 
by section 67 of, and paragraph 27(3) of 
Schedule 9 to, the Coal Industry Act 1994 (c.21) and paragraph 8 of Part 3 of 
Schedule was amended by section 46 of the 
Criminal Justice Act 1982 (c.48). There are other amendments to the 1981 Act which 
are not relevant to this Order. 
(b) 1981 c.66. Sections 2 and 116 were amended by section 4 of, and paragraph 52 of 
Schedule 2 to, the Planning 
(Consequential Provisions) Act 1990 (c.11). There are other amendments to the 
1981Act which are not relevant to this 
Order.  
 15 
(2) Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights of way over land owned 
by the 
undertaker which, being within the limits of land which may be acquired shown on 
the land plan, 
is required for the purposes of this Order shall be extinguished on the appropriation of 
the land by 
the undertaker for any of those purposes 
(3) Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights of way over land of 
which the 
undertaker takes temporary possession under this Order shall be suspended and 
unenforceable for 
as long as the undertaker remains in lawful possession of the land. 
(4) Any person who suffers loss by the extinguishment or suspension of any private 
right of way 
under this article shall be entitled to compensation to be determined, in case of 
dispute, under Part 
1 of the 1961 Act. 
(5) This article does not apply in relation to any right of way to which section 138 of 
the 2008 
Act (extinguishment of rights, and removal of apparatus, of statutory undertakers etc.) 
or article 31 
(statutory undertakers) applies. 
(6) Paragraphs (1) to (3) shall have effect subject to— 
(a) any notice given by the undertaker before— 
(i) the completion of the acquisition of the land, 
(ii) the undertaker’s appropriation of it, 
(iii) the undertaker’s entry onto it, or 
(iv) the undertaker’s taking temporary possession of it, 
that any or all of those paragraphs shall not apply to any right of way specified in the 
notice; and 
 
 
76
(b) any agreement made at any time between the undertaker and the person in or to 
whom 
the right of way in question is vested or belongs. 
(7) If any such agreement as is referred to in paragraph (6)(b)— 
(a) is made with a person in or to whom the right of way is vested or belongs; and 
(b) is expressed to have effect also for the benefit of those deriving title from or under 
that 
person, 
it shall be effective in respect of the persons so deriving title, whether the title was 
derived before 
or after the making of the agreement. 
Application of the Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act 1981 
23.—(1) The Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act 1981(a) shall apply as 
if this 
Order were a compulsory purchase order. 
(2) The Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act 1981, as so applied, shall 
have effect 
with the following modifications. 
(3) In section 3 (preliminary notices), for subsection (1) there shall be substituted— 
“(1) Before making a declaration under section 4 with respect to any land which is 
subject 
to a compulsory purchase order, the acquiring authority shall include the particulars 
specified in subsection (3) in a notice which is— 
(a) given to every person with a relevant interest in the land with respect to which the 
declaration is to be made (other than a mortgagee who is not in possession); and 
 
(a) 1981 c. 66. Sections 2(3), 6(2) and 11(6) were amended by section 4 of, and 
paragraph 52 of Schedule 2 to, the Planning 
(Consequential Provisions) Act 1990 (c. 11). Section 15 was amended by sections 56 
and 321(1) of, and Schedules 8 and 
16 to, the Housing and Regeneration Act 2008 (c. 17). Paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 was 
amended by section 76 of, and Part 2 
of Schedule 9 to, the Housing Act 1988 (c 50); section 161(4) of, and Schedule 19 to, 
the Leasehold Reform, Housing and 
Urban Development Act 1993 (c. 28); and sections 56 and 321(1) of, and Schedule 8 
to, the Housing and Regeneration Act 
2008. Paragraph 3 of Schedule 2 was amended by section 76 of, and Schedule 9 to, 
the Housing Act 1988 and section 56 
of, and Schedule 8 to, the Housing and Regeneration Act 2008. Paragraph 2 of 
Schedule 3 was repealed by section 277 of, 
and Schedule 9 to, the Inheritance Tax Act 1984 (c. 51). There are other amendments 
to the 1981 Act which are not 
relevant to this Order.  
 16 
(b) published in a local newspaper circulating in the area in which the land is situated. 
”. 
(4) In that section, in subsection (2), for “(1)(b)” there shall be substituted “(1)” and 
after 
“given” there shall be inserted “and published”. 
(5) In that section, for subsections (5) and (6) there shall be substituted— 
 
 
77
“(5) For the purposes of this section, a person has a relevant interest in land if— 
(a) that person is for the time being entitled to dispose of the fee simple of the land, 
whether in possession or in reversion; or 
(b) that person holds, or is entitled to the rents and profits of, the land under a lease or 
agreement, the unexpired term of which exceeds one month.”. 
(6) In section 5 (earliest date for execution of declaration)— 
(a) in subsection (1), after “publication” there shall be inserted “in a local newspaper 
circulating in the area in which the land is situated”; and 
(b) subsection (2) shall be omitted. 
(7) In section 7 (constructive notice to treat), in subsection (1)(a), the words “(as 
modified by 
section 4 of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981)” shall be omitted. 
(8) References to the 1965 Act in the Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations) 
Act 1981 
shall be construed as references to that Act as applied by section 125 of the 2008 Act 
to the 
compulsory acquisition of land under this Order. 
Acquisition of subsoil only 
24.—(1) The undertaker may acquire compulsorily so much of, or such rights in, the 
subsoil of 
the land referred to in paragraph (1) of article 18 (compulsory acquisition of land) as 
may be 
required for any purpose for which that land may be acquired under that provision 
instead of 
acquiring the whole of the land. 
(2) Where the undertaker acquires any part of, or rights in, the subsoil of land under 
paragraph 
(1), the undertaker shall not be required to acquire an interest in any other part of the 
land. 
(3) Paragraph (2) shall not prevent article 26 (acquisition of part of certain properties) 
from 
applying where the undertaker acquires a cellar, vault, arch or other construction 
forming part of a 
house, building or manufactory. 
Acquisition of land limited to subsoil lying more than 9 metres beneath surface 
25.—(1) This article applies to the land specified in Schedule F (land of which only 
subsoil 
more than 9 metres beneath surface may be acquired). 
(2) In the case of land to which this article applies, the undertaker may only acquire 
compulsorily under article 18 (compulsory acquisition of land) so much of, or such 
rights in, the 
subsoil of the land as may be required for the purposes of the authorised project. 
(3) Where the undertaker acquires any part of, or rights in, the subsoil of the land to 
which this 
article applies, the undertaker shall not be required to acquire a greater interest in the 
land or an 
interest in any other part of it. 
(4) References in this article to the subsoil of land are references to the subsoil lying 
more than 9 
 
 
78
metres beneath the level of the surface of the land; and for this purpose “level of the 
surface of the 
land” means— 
(a) in the case of any land on which a building is erected, the level of the surface of 
the 
ground adjoining the building; 
(b) in the case of a watercourse or other water area, the level of the surface of the 
ground 
nearest to it which is at all times above water level; or 
(c) in any other case, ground surface level.  
 17 
Acquisition of part of certain properties 
26.—(1)This article shall apply instead of section 8(1) of the 1965 Act (other 
provisions as 
divided land) (as applied by section 125 of the 2008 Act) where— 
(a) a notice to treat is served on a person (“the owner”) under the 1965 Act (as so 
applied) in 
respect of land forming only part of a house, building or manufactory or of land 
consisting of a house with a park or garden (“the land subject to the notice to treat”); 
and 
(b) a copy of this article is served on the owner with the notice to treat. 
(2) In such a case, the owner may, within the period of 21 days beginning with the day 
on which 
the notice was served, serve on the undertaker a counter-notice objecting to the sale of 
the land 
subject to the notice to treat which states that the owner is willing and able to sell the 
whole (“the 
land subject to the counter-notice”). 
(3) If no such counter-notice is served within that period, the owner shall be required 
to sell the 
land subject to the notice to treat. 
(4) If such a counter-notice is served within that period, the question whether the 
owner shall be 
required to sell only the land subject to the notice to treat shall, unless the undertaker 
agrees to 
take the land subject to the counter-notice, be referred to the tribunal. 
(5) If on such a reference the tribunal determines that the land subject to the notice to 
treat can 
be taken— 
(a) without material detriment to the remainder of the land subject to the counter-
notice; or 
(b) where the land subject to the notice to treat consists of a house with a park or 
garden, 
without material detriment to the remainder of the land subject to the counter-notice 
and 
without seriously affecting the amenity and convenience of the house, 
the owner shall be required to sell the land subject to the notice to treat. 
(6) If on such a reference the tribunal determines that only part of the land subject to 
the notice 
to treat can be taken— 
 
 
79
(a) without material detriment to the remainder of the land subject to the counter-
notice; or 
(b) where the land subject to the notice to treat consists of a house with a park or 
garden, 
without material detriment to the remainder of the land subject to the counter-notice 
and 
without seriously affecting the amenity and convenience of the house, 
the notice to treat shall be deemed to be a notice to treat for that part. 
(7) If on such a reference the tribunal determines that— 
(a) the land subject to the notice to treat cannot be taken without material detriment to 
the 
remainder of the land subject to the counter-notice; but 
(b) the material detriment is confined to a part of the land subject to the counter-
notice, 
the notice to treat shall be deemed to be a notice to treat for the land to which the 
material 
detriment is confined in addition to the land already subject to the notice, whether or 
not the 
additional land is land which the undertaker is authorised to acquire compulsorily 
under this 
Order. 
(8) If the undertaker agrees to take the land subject to the counter-notice, or if the 
tribunal 
determines that— 
(a) none of the land subject to the notice to treat can be taken without material 
detriment to 
the remainder of the land subject to the counter-notice or, as the case may be, without 
material detriment to the remainder of the land subject to the counter-notice and 
without 
seriously affecting the amenity and convenience of the house; and 
(b) the material detriment is not confined to a part of the land subject to the counter-
notice, 
the notice to treat shall be deemed to be a notice to treat for the land subject to the 
counter-notice 
whether or not the whole of that land is land which the undertaker is authorised to 
acquire 
compulsorily under this Order.  
 18 
(9) Where, by reason of a determination by the tribunal under this article, a notice to 
treat is 
deemed to be a notice to treat for less land or more land than that specified in the 
notice, the 
undertaker may, within the period of 6 weeks beginning with the day on which the 
determination 
is made, withdraw the notice to treat; and, in that event, shall pay the owner 
compensation for any 
loss or expense occasioned to the owner by the giving and withdrawal of the notice, to 
be 
determined in case of dispute by the tribunal. 
 
 
80
(10) Where the owner is required under this article to sell only part of a house, 
building or 
manufactory or of land consisting of a house with a park or garden, the undertaker 
shall pay the 
owner compensation for any loss sustained by the owner due to the severance of that 
part in 
addition to the value of the interest acquired. 
Rights under or over streets 
27.—(1) The undertaker may enter on and appropriate so much of the subsoil of, or 
air-space 
over, any street within the Order limits as may be required for the purposes of the 
authorised 
project and may use the subsoil or air-space for those purposes or any other purpose 
ancillary to 
the authorised project. 
(2) Subject to paragraph (3), the undertaker may exercise any power conferred by 
paragraph (1) 
in relation to a street without being required to acquire any part of the street or any 
easement or 
right in the street. 
(3) Paragraph (2) shall not apply in relation to— 
(a) any subway or underground building; or 
(b) any cellar, vault, arch or other construction in, on or under a street which forms 
part of a 
building fronting onto the street. 
(4) Subject to paragraph (5), any person who is an owner or occupier of land 
appropriated under 
paragraph (1) without the undertaker acquiring any part of that person’s interest in the 
land, and 
who suffers loss as a result, shall be entitled to compensation to be determined, in case 
of dispute, 
under Part 1 of the 1961 Act. 
(5) Compensation shall not be payable under paragraph (4) to any person who is an 
undertaker 
to whom section 85 of the 1991 Act (sharing cost of necessary measures) applies in 
respect of 
measures of which the allowable costs are to be borne in accordance with that section. 
Temporary use of land for carrying out the authorised project 
28.—(1) The undertaker may, in connection with the carrying out of the authorised 
project— 
(a) enter on and take temporary possession of the land specified in columns (1) and 
(2) of 
Schedule G (land of which temporary possession may be taken) for the purpose 
specified 
in relation to that land in column (3) of that Schedule relating to the part of the 
authorised 
project specified in column (4) of that Schedule; 
(b) remove any buildings and vegetation from that land; and 
(c) construct temporary works (including the provision of means of access) and 
buildings on 
 
 
81
that land. 
(2) Not less than 14 days before entering on and taking temporary possession of land 
under this 
article the undertaker shall serve notice of the intended entry on the owners and 
occupiers of the 
land. 
(3) The undertaker may not, without the agreement of the owners of the land, remain 
in 
possession of any land under this article after the end of the period of one year 
beginning with the 
date of completion of the part of the authorised project specified in relation to that 
land in column 
(4) of Schedule G. 
(4) Before giving up possession of land of which temporary possession has been taken 
under 
this article, the undertaker shall remove all temporary works and restore the land to 
the reasonable 
satisfaction of the owners of the land; but the undertaker shall not be required to 
replace a building 
removed under this article.  
 19 
(5) The undertaker shall pay compensation to the owners and occupiers of land of 
which 
temporary possession is taken under this article for any loss or damage arising from 
the exercise in 
relation to the land of the provisions of any power conferred by this article. 
(6) Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (5), or 
as to the 
amount of the compensation, shall be determined under Part 1 of the 1961 Act. 
(7) Nothing in this article shall affect any liability to pay compensation under section 
10(2) of 
the 1965 Act (further provisions as to compensation for injurious affection) or under 
any other 
enactment in respect of loss or damage arising from the carrying out of the authorised 
project, 
other than loss or damage for which compensation is payable under paragraph (5). 
(8) The undertaker may not compulsorily acquire under this Order the land referred to 
in 
paragraph (1) except that the undertaker shall not be precluded from— 
(a) acquiring new rights over any part of that land under article 21 (compulsory 
acquisition 
of rights); or 
(b) acquiring any part of the subsoil (or rights in the subsoil) of that land under article 
24 
(acquisition of subsoil only) or in accordance with article 25 (acquisition of land 
limited 
to subsoil lying more than 9 metres beneath surface). 
(9) Where the undertaker takes possession of land under this article, the undertaker 
shall not be 
required to acquire the land or any interest in it. 
 
 
82
(10) Section 13 of the 1965 Act (refusal to give possession to acquiring authority) 
shall apply to 
the temporary use of land pursuant to this article to the same extent as it applies to the 
compulsory 
acquisition of land under this Order by virtue of section 125 of the 2008 Act 
(application of 
compulsory acquisition provisions). 
Temporary use of land for maintaining authorised project 
29.—(1) Subject to paragraph (2), at any time during the maintenance period relating 
to any part 
of the authorised project, the undertaker may— 
(a) enter on and take temporary possession of any land within the Order limits if such 
possession is reasonably required for the purpose of maintaining the authorised 
project; 
and 
(b) construct such temporary works (including the provision of means of access) and 
buildings on the land as may be reasonably necessary for that purpose. 
(2) Paragraph (1) shall not authorise the undertaker to take temporary possession of— 
(a) any house or garden belonging to a house; or 
(b) any building (other than a house) if it is for the time being occupied. 
(3) Not less than 28 days before entering on and taking temporary possession of land 
under this 
article the undertaker shall serve notice of the intended entry on the owners and 
occupiers of the 
land. 
(4) The undertaker may only remain in possession of land under this article for so 
long as may 
be reasonably necessary to carry out the maintenance of the part of the authorised 
project for 
which possession of the land was taken. 
(5) Before giving up possession of land of which temporary possession has been taken 
under 
this article, the undertaker shall remove all temporary works and restore the land to 
the reasonable 
satisfaction of the owners of the land. 
(6) The undertaker shall pay compensation to the owners and occupiers of land of 
which 
temporary possession is taken under this article for any loss or damage arising from 
the exercise in 
relation to the land of the provisions of this article. 
(7) Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (6), or 
as to the 
amount of the compensation, shall be determined under Part 1 of the 1961 Act. 
(8) Nothing in this article shall affect any liability to pay compensation under section 
10(2) of 
the 1965 Act (further provisions as to compensation for injurious affection) or under 
any other  
 20 
enactment in respect of loss or damage arising from the maintenance of the authorised 
project, 
 
 
83
other than loss or damage for which compensation is payable under paragraph (6). 
(9) Where the undertaker takes possession of land under this article, the undertaker 
shall not be 
required to acquire the land or any interest in it. 
(10) Section 13 of the 1965 Act (refusal to give possession to acquiring authority) 
shall apply to 
the temporary use of land pursuant to this article to the same extent as it applies to the 
compulsory 
acquisition of land under this Order by virtue of section 125 of the 2008 Act 
(application of 
compulsory acquisition provisions). 
(11) In this article “the maintenance period”, in relation to any part of the authorised 
project, 
means the period of 5 years beginning with the date on which that part of the 
authorised project is 
first opened for use. 
Special category land 
30.—(1) The special category land shall not vest in the undertaker until the undertaker 
has 
acquired the replacement land and [insert name of relevant body] has certified that a 
scheme for 
the provision of the replacement land as [common/open space/fuel or field garden 
allotment] has 
been implemented to its satisfaction. 
(2) On the requirements of paragraph (1) being satisfied, the replacement land shall 
vest in 
[insert name of relevant body] subject to the same rights, trusts and incidents as 
attached to the 
special category land; and the special category land shall be discharged from all 
rights, trusts and 
incidents to which it was previously subject. 
(3) In this article— 
“the special category land” means the land identified as forming part of a common, 
open 
space, or fuel or field garden allotment in the book of reference and on the plan 
entitled 
“Special Category Land Plan” attached to the land plan, which may be acquired 
compulsorily 
under this Order and for which replacement land is to be provided; and 
“the replacement land” means the land identified in the book of reference and on the 
plan 
entitled “Replacement Land Plan” attached to the land plan. 
Statutory undertakers 
31. The undertaker may— 
(a) acquire compulsorily the land belonging to statutory undertakers shown on the 
land plan 
within the limits of the land to be acquired and described in the book of reference; 
(b) extinguish the rights of, remove or reposition the apparatus belonging to statutory 
undertakers shown on the [insert name] plan and described in the book of reference; 
and 
 
 
84
(c) acquire compulsorily the new rights over land belonging to statutory undertakers 
shown 
on the [insert name] plan and described in the book of reference. 
Apparatus and rights of statutory undertakers in stopped-up streets 
32.—(1) Where a street is stopped up under article 9 (stopping up of streets), any 
statutory 
utility whose apparatus is under, in, on, along or across the street shall have the same 
powers and 
rights in respect of that apparatus, subject to the provisions of this article, as if this 
Order had not 
been made. 
(2) Where a street is stopped up under article 9, any statutory utility whose apparatus 
is under, 
in, on, over, along or across the street may, and if reasonably requested to do so by the 
undertaker 
shall— 
(a) remove the apparatus and place it or other apparatus provided in substitution for it 
in 
such other position as the utility may reasonably determine and have power to place 
it; 
or  
 21 
(b) provide other apparatus in substitution for the existing apparatus and place it in 
such 
position as described in sub-paragraph (a). 
(3) Subject to the following provisions of this article, the undertaker shall pay to any 
statutory 
utility an amount equal to the cost reasonably incurred by the utility in or in 
connection with— 
(a) the execution of the relocation works required in consequence of the stopping up 
of the 
street; and 
(b) the doing of any other work or thing rendered necessary by the execution of the 
relocation works. 
(4) If in the course of the execution of relocation works under paragraph (2)— 
(a) apparatus of a better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is placed in 
substitution for existing apparatus; or 
(b) apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing 
apparatus) is 
placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing apparatus was, 
and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions or the 
placing of 
apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed by the undertaker, or, in 
default of 
agreement, is not determined by arbitration to be necessary, then, if it involves cost in 
the 
execution of the relocation works exceeding that which would have been involved if 
the apparatus 
placed had been of the existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at the existing depth, 
as the case 
 
 
85
may be, the amount which, apart from this paragraph, would be payable to the 
statutory utility by 
virtue of paragraph (3) shall be reduced by the amount of that excess. 
(5) For the purposes of paragraph (4)— 
(a) an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing apparatus 
shall 
not be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions than those of the 
existing 
apparatus; and 
(b) where the provision of a joint in a cable is agreed, or is determined to be 
necessary, the 
consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a manhole shall be treated as if it 
also had been agreed or had been so determined. 
(6) An amount which, apart from this paragraph, would be payable to a statutory 
utility in 
respect of works by virtue of paragraph (3) (and having regard, where relevant, to 
paragraph (4)) 
shall, if the works include the placing of apparatus provided in substitution for 
apparatus placed 
more than 7 years and 6 months earlier so as to confer on the utility any financial 
benefit by 
deferment of the time for renewal of the apparatus in the ordinary course, be reduced 
by the 
amount which represents that benefit. 
(7) Paragraphs (3) to (6) shall not apply where the authorised project constitutes major 
highway 
works, major bridge works or major transport works for the purposes of Part 3 of the 
1991 Act, 
but instead— 
(a) the allowable costs of the relocation works shall be determined in accordance with 
section 85 of that Act (sharing of cost of necessary measures) and any regulations for 
the 
time being having effect under that section; and 
(b) the allowable costs shall be borne by the undertaker and the statutory utility in 
such 
proportions as may be prescribed by any such regulations. 
(8) In this article— 
“apparatus” has the same meaning as in Part 3 of the 1991 Act; 
“relocation works” means work executed, or apparatus provided, under paragraph (2); 
and 
“statutory utility” means a statutory undertaker for the purposes of the 1980 Act or a 
public 
communications provider as defined in section 151(1) of the Communications Act 
2003(a). 
 
(a) 2003 c.21. There are amendments to this Act which are not relevant to this Order.  
 22 
Recovery of costs of new connections 
33.—(1) Where any apparatus of a public utility undertaker or of a public 
communications 
 
 
86
provider is removed under article 31 (statutory undertakers) any person who is the 
owner or 
occupier of premises to which a supply was given from that apparatus shall be entitled 
to recover 
from the undertaker compensation in respect of expenditure reasonably incurred by 
that person, in 
consequence of the removal, for the purpose of effecting a connection between the 
premises and 
any other apparatus from which a supply is given. 
(2) Paragraph (1) shall not apply in the case of the removal of a public sewer but 
where such a 
sewer is removed under article 31, any person who is— 
(a) the owner or occupier of premises the drains of which communicated with that 
sewer; or 
(b) the owner of a private sewer which communicated with that sewer, 
shall be entitled to recover from the undertaker compensation in respect of 
expenditure reasonably 
incurred by that person, in consequence of the removal, for the purpose of making the 
drain or 
sewer belonging to that person communicate with any other public sewer or with a 
private 
sewerage disposal plant. 
(3) This article shall not have effect in relation to apparatus to which article 32 
(apparatus and 
rights of statutory undertakers in stopped-up streets) or Part 3 of the 1991 Act applies. 
(4) In this paragraph— 
“public communications provider” has the same meaning as in section 151(1) of the 
Communications Act 2003; and 
“public utility undertaker” has the same meaning as in the 1980 Act. 
Railway and navigation undertakings 
34.—(1) Subject to the following provisions of this article, the undertaker may not 
under article 
8 (street works) break up or open a street where the street, not being a highway 
maintainable at 
public expense (within the meaning of the 1980 Act)— 
(a) is under the control or management of, or is maintainable by, railway or tramway 
undertakers or a navigation authority; or 
(b) forms part of a level crossing belonging to any such undertakers or to such an 
authority or 
to any other person, 
except with the consent of the undertakers or authority or, as the case may be, of the 
person to 
whom the level crossing belongs. 
(2) Paragraph (1) shall not apply to the carrying out under this Order of emergency 
works, 
within the meaning of Part 3 of the 1991 Act. 
(3) A consent given for the purpose of paragraph (1) may be made subject to such 
reasonable 
conditions as may be specified by the person giving it but shall not be unreasonably 
withheld. 
 
 
87
(4) In this paragraph “navigation authority” means any person who has a duty or 
power under 
any enactment to work, maintain, conserve, improve or control any canal or other 
inland 
navigation, navigable river, estuary or harbour. 
Application of landlord and tenant law 
35.—(1) This article applies to— 
(a) any agreement for leasing to any person the whole or any part of the authorised 
project or 
the right to operate the same; and 
(b) any agreement entered into by the undertaker with any person for the construction, 
maintenance, use or operation of the authorised project, or any part of it, 
so far as any such agreement relates to the terms on which any land which is the 
subject of a lease 
granted by or under that agreement is to be provided for that person’s use.  
 23 
(2) No enactment or rule of law regulating the rights and obligations of landlords and 
tenants 
shall prejudice the operation of any agreement to which this article applies. 
(3) Accordingly, no such enactment or rule of law shall apply in relation to the rights 
and 
obligations of the parties to any lease granted by or under any such agreement so as 
to— 
(a) exclude or in any respect modify any of the rights and obligations of those parties 
under 
the terms of the lease, whether with respect to the termination of the tenancy or any 
other 
matter; 
(b) confer or impose on any such party any right or obligation arising out of or 
connected 
with anything done or omitted on or in relation to land which is the subject of the 
lease, in 
addition to any such right or obligation provided for by the terms of the lease; or 
(c) restrict the enforcement (whether by action for damages or otherwise) by any party 
to the 
lease of any obligation of any other party under the lease. 
Operational land for purposes of the 1990 Act 
36. Development consent granted by this Order shall be treated as specific planning 
permission 
for the purposes of section 264(3)(a) of the 1990 Act (cases in which land is to be 
treated as 
operational land for the purposes of that Act). 
Deemed consent under section 34 of the Coast Protection Act 1949 
37. The undertaker is granted deemed consent under section 34 of the Coast 
Protection Act 
1949(a) to carry out the works described in Schedule H, subject to the requirements 
set out in that 
Schedule. 
Deemed licence under Part 2 of the Food and Environment Protection Act 1985 
 
 
88
38. The undertaker is granted a deemed licence under Part 2 of the Food and 
Environment 
Protection Act 1985(b) to carry out the works described in Schedule I, subject to the 
requirements 
set out in that Schedule. 
Felling or lopping of trees 
39.—(1) The undertaker may fell or lop any tree or shrub near any part of the 
authorised project, 
or cut back its roots, if it reasonably believes it to be necessary to do so to prevent the 
tree or 
shrub— 
(a) from obstructing or interfering with the construction, maintenance or operation of 
the 
authorised project or any apparatus used in connection with the authorised project; or 
(b) from constituting a danger to passengers or other persons using the authorised 
project. 
(2) In carrying out any activity authorised by paragraph (1), the undertaker shall do no 
unnecessary damage to any tree or shrub and shall pay compensation to any person 
for any loss or 
damage arising from such activity. 
(3) Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (2), or 
as to the 
amount of compensation, shall be determined under Part 1 of the 1961 Act. 
 
(a) 1949 c.74. Section 34 has been amended by section 36 of the Merchant Shipping 
Act 1988 (c.12). There are other 
amendments to the 1949 Act which are not relevant to this Order. 
(b) 1985 c.48. Sections 5 and 6 in Part 2 have been amended by sections 146(2) and 
162 of, and Part 8 of Schedule 16 to, the 
Environmental Protection Act 1990 (c. 43). There are other amendments to the 1985 
Act which are not relevant to this 
Order.  
 24 
Trees subject to tree preservation orders 
40.—(1) The undertaker may fell or lop any tree described in Schedule J [and 
identified on the 
[insert name] plan, or cut back its roots if it reasonably believes it to be necessary in 
order to do so 
to prevent the tree or shrub— 
(a) from obstructing or interfering with the construction, maintenance or operation of 
the 
authorised project or any apparatus used in connection with the authorised project; or 
(b) from constituting a danger to passengers or other persons using the authorised 
project. 
(2) In carrying out any activity authorised by paragraph (1)— 
(a) the undertaker shall do no unnecessary damage to any tree or shrub and shall pay 
compensation to any person for any loss or damage arising from such activity; and 
(b) the duty contained in section 206(1) of the 1990 Act (replacement of trees) shall 
not 
apply. 
 
 
89
(3) The authority given by paragraph (1) shall constitute a deemed consent under the 
relevant 
tree preservation order. 
(4) Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (2), or 
as to the 
amount of compensation, shall be determined under Part 1 of the 1961 Act. 
Certification of plans etc 
41.—(1) The undertaker shall, as soon as practicable after the making of this Order, 
submit to 
the decision-maker copies of— 
(a) the book of reference; 
(b) the land plan; 
(c) the rights plan; 
(d) the works plan; 
(e) the sections; and 
(f) any other plans or documents referred to in this Order, 
for certification that they are true copies of the documents referred to in this Order. 
(2) A plan or document so certified shall be admissible in any proceedings as 
evidence of the 
contents of the document of which it is a copy. 
Arbitration 
42. Any difference under any provision of this Order, unless otherwise provided for, 
shall be 
referred to and settled by a single arbitrator to be agreed between the parties or, failing 
agreement, 
to be appointed on the application of either party (after giving notice in writing to the 
other) by the 
[insert appropriate body]. 
Schedule A 
AUTHORISED PROJECT 
Part 1 
AUTHORISED DEVELOPMENT 
[NOTE: This Part should describe as fully as possible the elements of the proposed 
project 
(including any associated development), which are development for the purposes of 
section 32 of 
the 2008 Act, for which development consent is sought. ,It should not include any 
elements of 
development which would be authorised by specific provisions in the Order.]  
 25 
Part 2 
ANCILLARY WORKS 
[NOTE: This Part should describe as fully as possible the ancillary works for which 
consent is 
sought and which are not development within the meaning of section 32 of the 2008 
Act and which 
would not be the subject of a separate provision [article] in this Order.] 
Schedule B 
STREETS SUBJECT TO STREET WORKS 
(1) (2) 
 
 
90
Area Street subject to street works 
Schedule C 
STREETS TO BE STOPPED UP 
Part 1 
STREETS FOR WHICH A SUBSTITUTE IS TO BE PROVIDED 
(1) (2) (3) (4) 
Area Street to be stopped 
up 
Extent of stopping up New street to be 
substituted 
Part 2 
STREETS FOR WHICH NO SUBSTITUTE IS TO BE PROVIDED 
(1) (2) (3) 
Area Street to be stopped up Extent of stopping up 
Schedule D 
STREETS TO BE TEMPORARILY STOPPED UP 
(1) (2) (3) 
Area Street to be temporarily 
stopped up 
Extent of temporary stopping 
up 
Schedule E 
ACCESS TO WORKS 
(1) (2) 
Area Description of access  
 26 
Schedule F 
LAND OF WHICH ONLY SUBSOIL MORE THAN 9 METRES BENEATH 
SURFACE MAY BE ACQUIRED 
(1) (2) 
Area Number of land shown on land plan 
Schedule G 
LAND OF WHICH TEMPORARY POSSESSION MAY BE TAKEN 
(1) (2) (3) (4) 
Area Number of land shown 
on land plan 
Purpose for which 
temporary possession 
may be taken 
Relevant part of the 
Authorised project 
Schedule H 
DEEMED CONSENT UNDER COAST PROTECTION ACT 1949 
[Insert details of deemed consent] 
Schedule I 
DEEMED LICENCE UNDER THE FOOD AND ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION 
ACT 1985 
[Insert details of deemed licence] 
Schedule J 
TREES SUBJECT TO TREE PRESERVATION ORDERS 
 
 
91
(1) (2) (3) 
Type of tree Number[reference] of tree 
shown on land plan 
Work to be carried out 
 SCHEDULE 2 Article 2 
Model provisions for railways 
CONTENTS 
Preliminary 
1. Interpretation 
2. Incorporation of the Railway Clauses Acts  
 27 
3. Application and modification of legislative provisions 
Principal powers 
4. Development consent etc. granted by the Order 
5. Maintenance of authorised project 
6. Limits of Deviation 
7. Benefit of Order 
8. Consent to transfer benefit of Order 
Streets 
9. Street works 
10. Construction and maintenance of new or altered streets 
11. Stopping up of streets 
12. Application of the 1991 Act 
13. Public rights of way 
14. Temporary stopping up of streets 
15. Access to works 
16. Agreements with street authorities 
17. Construction of bridges and tunnels 
18. Level Crossings 
19. Railway and navigation undertakings 
Supplemental powers 
20. Discharge of water 
21. Protective work to buildings 
22. Authority to survey and investigate the land 
23. Removal of human remains 
Powers of acquisition 
24. Compulsory acquisition of land 
25. Compulsory acquisition of land – incorporation of the mineral code 
26. Time limit for exercise of authority to acquire land compulsorily 
27. Compulsory acquisition of rights 
28. Private rights of way 
29. Application of the Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act 1981 
30. Acquisition of subsoil only 
31. Acquisition of land limited to subsoil lying more than 9 metres beneath surface 
32. Acquisition of part of certain properties 
33. Application of the Land Compensation Act 1973 
34. Rights under or over streets 
35. Temporary use of land for carrying out the authorised project 
36. Temporary use of land for maintaining authorised project 
37. Special category land 
 
 
92
38. Statutory undertakers 
39. Apparatus and rights of statutory undertakers in stopped up streets 
40. Recovery of costs of new connections  
 28 
Operations 
41. Operation and use of railways 
42. Fares 
43. Deemed consent under section 34 of the Coast Protection Act 1949 
44. Deemed licence under Part 2 of the Food and Environment Protection Act 1985 
45. Felling or lopping of trees 
46. Trees subject to tree preservation orders 
Miscellaneous and general 
47. Application of landlord and tenant law 
48. Operational land for purposes of the 1990 Act 
49. Defence to proceedings in respect of statutory nuisance 
50. Protections of Interests 
51. Certification of plans etc 
52. Arbitration 
Schedule A 
AUTHORISED PROJECT 
Part 1 
AUTHORISED DEVELOPMENT 
Part 2 
ANCILLARY WORKS 
Schedule B 
STREETS SUBJECT TO STREET WORKS 
Schedule C 
STREETS TO BE STOPPED UP 
Part 1 
STREETS FOR WHICH A SUBSTITUTE IS TO BE PROVIDED 
Part 2 
STREETS FOR WHICH NO SUBSTITUTE IS TO BE PROVIDED 
Schedule D 
STREETS TO BE TEMPORARILY STOPPED UP 
Schedule E 
ACCESS TO WORKS 
Schedule F 
LAND OF WHICH ONLY SUBSOIL MORE THAN 9 METRES BENEATH 
SURFACE 
MAY BE ACQUIRED  
 29 
Schedule G 
LAND OF WHICH TEMPORARY POSSESSION MAY BE TAKEN 
Schedule H 
DEEMED CONSENT UNDER COAST PROTECTION ACT 1949 
Schedule I 
DEEMED LICENCE UNDER THE FOOD AND ENVIRONMENT PROTECTIONI 
ACT 
1985 
Schedule J 
 
 
93
TREES SUBJECT TO TREE PRESERVATION ORDERS 
Schedule K 
LEVEL CROSSINGS 
Schedule L 
PROTECTIVE PROVISIONS 
Preliminary 
Interpretation 
1.—(1) In this Order— 
“the 1961 Act” means the Land Compensation Act 1961(a); 
“the 1965 Act” means the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965(b); 
 
(a) 1961 c.33. Section 2(2) was amended by section 193 of, and paragraph 5 of 
Schedule 33 to, the Local Government, 
Planning and Land Act 1980 (c.65). There are other amendments to the 1980 Act 
which are not relevant to this Order. 
(b) 1965 c.56. Section 3 was amended by section 70 of, and paragraph 3 of Schedule 
15 to, the Planning and Compensation 
Act 1991 (c..34). Section 4 was amended by section 3 of, and Part 1 of Schedule 1 to, 
the Housing (Consequential 
Provisions) Act 1985 (c.71). Section 5 was amended by sections 67 and 80 of, and 
Part 2 of Schedule 18 to, the Planning 
and Compensation Act 1991 (c.34). Section 11(1) and sections 3, 31 and 32 were 
amended by section 34(1) of, and 
Schedule 4 to, the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 (c. 67) and by section 14 of, and 
paragraph 12(1) of Schedule 5 to, the 
Church of England (Miscellaneous Provisions) Measure 2006 (2006 No.1). Section 12 
was amended by section 56(2) of, 
and Part 1 to Schedule 9 to, the Courts Act 1971 (c.23). Section 13 was amended by 
section 139 of the Tribunals, Courts 
and Enforcement Act 2007 (c.15). Section 20 was amended by section 70 of, and 
paragraph 14 of Schedule 15 to, the 
Planning and Compensation Act 1991 (c.34). Sections 9, 25 and 29 were amended by 
the Statute Law (Repeals) Act 1973 
(c.39). Section 31 was also amended by section 70 of, and paragraph 19 of Schedule 
15 to, the Planning and Compensation 
Act 1991 (c.34) and by section 14 of, and paragraph 12(2) of Schedule 5 to, the 
Church of England (Miscellaneous 
Provisions) Measure 2006 (2006 No.1). There are other amendments to the 1965 Act 
which are not relevant to this Order.  
 30 
“the 1980 Act” means the Highways Act 1980(a); 
“the 1990 Act” means the Town and Country Planning Act 1990(b); 
“the 1991 Act” means the New Roads and Street Works Act 1991(c); 
“the 2008 Act” means the Planning Act 2008(d); 
“ancillary works” means the ancillary works described in Part 2 of Schedule A 
(authorised 
project) [and any other works authorised by the Order] and which are not 
development within 
the meaning of section 32 of the 2008 Act; 
 
 
94
“authorised development” means the development and associated development 
described in 
Part 1 of Schedule A (authorised project) [and any other development authorised by 
this 
Order], which is development within the meaning of section 32 of the 2008 Act; 
“the authorised project” means the authorised development and the ancillary works 
authorised 
by this Order; 
“the book of reference” means the book of reference certified by the decision-maker 
as the 
book of reference for the purposes of this Order; 
“building” includes any structure or erection or any part of a building, structure or 
erection; 
“carriageway” has the same meaning as in the 1980 Act; 
“compulsory acquisition notice” means a notice served in accordance with section 134 
of the 
2008 Act; 
“the decision-maker” has the same meaning as in section 103 of the 2008 Act; 
“highway” and “highway authority” have the same meaning as in the 1980 Act; 
“the land plan” means the plan certified as the land plan by the decision-maker for 
thePrincipal powers 
4. Development consent etc. granted by the Order 
5. Maintenance of authorised project 
6. Limits of Deviation 
7. Benefit of Order 
8. Consent to transfer benefit of Order 
Streets 
9. Street works 
10. Construction and maintenance of new or altered streets 
11. Stopping up of streets 
12. Application of the 1991 Act 
13. Public rights of way 
14. Temporary stopping up of streets 
15. Access to works 
16. Agreements with street authorities 
17. Construction of bridges and tunnels 
18. Level Crossings 
19. Railway and navigation undertakings 
Supplemental powers 
20. Discharge of water 
21. Protective work to buildings 
22. Authority to survey and investigate the land 
23. Removal of human remains 
Powers of acquisition 
24. Compulsory acquisition of land 
25. Compulsory acquisition of land – incorporation of the mineral code 
26. Time limit for exercise of authority to acquire land compulsorily 
27. Compulsory acquisition of rights 
28. Private rights of way 
29. Application of the Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act 1981 
 
 
95
30. Acquisition of subsoil only 
31. Acquisition of land limited to subsoil lying more than 9 metres beneath surface 
32. Acquisition of part of certain properties 
33. Application of the Land Compensation Act 1973 
34. Rights under or over streets 
35. Temporary use of land for carrying out the authorised project 
36. Temporary use of land for maintaining authorised project 
37. Special category land 
38. Statutory undertakers 
39. Apparatus and rights of statutory undertakers in stopped up streets 
40. Recovery of costs of new connections  
 28 
Operations 
41. Operation and use of railways 
42. Fares 
43. Deemed consent under section 34 of the Coast Protection Act 1949 
44. Deemed licence under Part 2 of the Food and Environment Protection Act 1985 
45. Felling or lopping of trees 
46. Trees subject to tree preservation orders 
Miscellaneous and general 
47. Application of landlord and tenant law 
48. Operational land for purposes of the 1990 Act 
49. Defence to proceedings in respect of statutory nuisance 
50. Protections of Interests 
51. Certification of plans etc 
52. Arbitration 
Schedule A 
AUTHORISED PROJECT 
Part 1 
AUTHORISED DEVELOPMENT 
Part 2 
ANCILLARY WORKS 
Schedule B 
STREETS SUBJECT TO STREET WORKS 
Schedule C 
STREETS TO BE STOPPED UP 
Part 1 
STREETS FOR WHICH A SUBSTITUTE IS TO BE PROVIDED 
Part 2 
STREETS FOR WHICH NO SUBSTITUTE IS TO BE PROVIDED 
Schedule D 
STREETS TO BE TEMPORARILY STOPPED UP 
Schedule E 
ACCESS TO WORKS 
Schedule F 
LAND OF WHICH ONLY SUBSOIL MORE THAN 9 METRES BENEATH 
SURFACE 
MAY BE ACQUIRED  
 29 
Schedule G 
 
 
96
LAND OF WHICH TEMPORARY POSSESSION MAY BE TAKEN 
Schedule H 
DEEMED CONSENT UNDER COAST PROTECTION ACT 1949 
Schedule I 
DEEMED LICENCE UNDER THE FOOD AND ENVIRONMENT PROTECTIONI 
ACT 
1985 
Schedule J 
TREES SUBJECT TO TREE PRESERVATION ORDERS 
Schedule K 
LEVEL CROSSINGS 
Schedule L 
PROTECTIVE PROVISIONS 
Preliminary 
Interpretation 
1.—(1) In this Order— 
“the 1961 Act” means the Land Compensation Act 1961(a); 
“the 1965 Act” means the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965(b); 
(a) 1961 c.33. Section 2(2) was amended by section 193 of, and paragraph 5 of 
Schedule 33 to, the Local Government, 
Planning and Land Act 1980 (c.65). There are other amendments to the 1980 Act 
which are not relevant to this Order. 
(b) 1965 c.56. Section 3 was amended by section 70 of, and paragraph 3 of Schedule 
15 to, the Planning and Compensation 
Act 1991 (c..34). Section 4 was amended by section 3 of, and Part 1 of Schedule 1 to, 
the Housing (Consequential 
Provisions) Act 1985 (c.71). Section 5 was amended by sections 67 and 80 of, and 
Part 2 of Schedule 18 to, the Planning 
and Compensation Act 1991 (c.34). Section 11(1) and sections 3, 31 and 32 were 
amended by section 34(1) of, and 
Schedule 4 to, the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 (c. 67) and by section 14 of, and 
paragraph 12(1) of Schedule 5 to, the 
Church of England (Miscellaneous Provisions) Measure 2006 (2006 No.1). Section 12 
was amended by section 56(2) of, 
and Part 1 to Schedule 9 to, the Courts Act 1971 (c.23). Section 13 was amended by 
section 139 of the Tribunals, Courts 
and Enforcement Act 2007 (c.15). Section 20 was amended by section 70 of, and 
paragraph 14 of Schedule 15 to, the 
Planning and Compensation Act 1991 (c.34). Sections 9, 25 and 29 were amended by 
the Statute Law (Repeals) Act 1973 
(c.39). Section 31 was also amended by section 70 of, and paragraph 19 of Schedule 
15 to, the Planning and Compensation 
Act 1991 (c.34) and by section 14 of, and paragraph 12(2) of Schedule 5 to, the 
Church of England (Miscellaneous 
Provisions) Measure 2006 (2006 No.1). There are other amendments to the 1965 Act 
which are not relevant to this Order.  
 30 
“the 1980 Act” means the Highways Act 1980(a); 
“the 1990 Act” means the Town and Country Planning Act 1990(b); 
“the 1991 Act” means the New Roads and Street Works Act 1991(c); 
 
 
97
“the 2008 Act” means the Planning Act 2008(d); 
“ancillary works” means the ancillary works described in Part 2 of Schedule A 
(authorised 
project) [and any other works authorised by the Order] and which are not 
development within 
the meaning of section 32 of the 2008 Act; 
“authorised development” means the development and associated development 
described in 
Part 1 of Schedule A (authorised project) [and any other development authorised by 
this 
Order], which is development within the meaning of section 32 of the 2008 Act; 
“the authorised project” means the authorised development and the ancillary works 
authorised 
by this Order; 
“the book of reference” means the book of reference certified by the decision-maker 
as the 
book of reference for the purposes of this Order; 
“building” includes any structure or erection or any part of a building, structure or 
erection; 
“carriageway” has the same meaning as in the 1980 Act; 
“compulsory acquisition notice” means a notice served in accordance with section 134 
of the 
2008 Act; 
“the decision-maker” has the same meaning as in section 103 of the 2008 Act; 
“highway” and “highway authority” have the same meaning as in the 1980 Act; 
“the land plan” means the plan certified as the land plan by the  
purposes of this Order; 
“limits of deviation” means the limits of deviation referred to in article 6; 
“maintain” and any of its derivatives include to inspect repair, adjust, alter, remove, 
reconstruct or replace the authorised project and any derivative of “maintain” shall be 
construed accordingly; 
“Order land” means the land shown on the land plan which is within the limits of land 
to be 
acquired and described in the book of reference; 
“the Order limits” means the limits shown on the works plan within which the 
authorised 
project may be carried out; 
“owner”, in relation to land, has the same meaning as in section 7 of the Acquisition 
of Land 
Act 1981(e); 
(a) 1980 c.66. Section 1(1) was amended by section 21(2) of the New Roads and 
Street Works Act 1991 (c.22); sections 1(2), 
(3) and (4) were amended by section 8 of, and paragraph (1) of Schedule 4 to, the 
Local Government Act 1985 (c.51); 
section 1(2A) was inserted by, and section 1(3) was amended by, section 259 (1), (2) 
and (3) of the Greater London 
Authority Act 1999 (c.29); sections 1(3A) and 1(5) were inserted by section 22(1) of, 
and paragraph 1 of Schedule 7 to the 
Local Government (Wales) Act 1994 (c.19). Section 36(2) was amended by section 
4(1) of, and paragraphs 47 (a) and (b) 
 
 
98
of Schedule 2 to, the Housing (Consequential Provisions) Act 1985 (c.71), by S.I. 
2006/1177, by section 4 of and paragraph 
45(3) of Schedule 2 to, the Planning (Consequential Provisions) Act 1990 (c.11), by 
section 64(1) (2) and (3) of the 
Transport and Works Act (c.42) and by section 57 of, and paragraph 5 of Part 1 of 
Schedule 6 to, the Countryside and 
Rights of Way Act 2000 (c.37); section 36(3A) was inserted by section 64(4) of the 
Transport and Works Act 1992 and was 
amended by S.I. 2006/1177; section 36(6) was amended by section 8 of, and 
paragraph 7 of Schedule 4 to, the Local 
Government Act 1985 (c.51); and section 36(7) was inserted by section 22(1) of, and 
paragraph 4 of Schedule 7 to, the 
Local Government (Wales) Act 1994 (c.19). Section 329 was amended by section 
112(4) of, and Schedule 18 to, the 
Electricity Act 1989 (c.29) and by section 190(3) of, and Part 1 of Schedule 27 to, the 
Water Act 1989 (c.15). There are 
other amendments to the 1980 Act which are not relevant to this Order. 
(b) 1990 c.8. Section 206(1) was amended by section 192(8) to, and paragraphs 7 and 
11 of Schedule 8 to, the Planning Act 
2008 (c29) (date in force to be appointed see section 241(3), (4)(a),(c) of the 2008 
Act). There are other amendments to the 
1990 Act which are not relevant to this Order. 
(c) 1991 c.22. Section 48(3A) was inserted by section 124 of the Local Transport Act 
2008 (c.26). Sections 79(4), 80(4), and 
83(4) were amended by section 40 of, and Schedule 1 to, the Traffic Management Act 
2004 (c.18). 
(d) 2008 c.29. 
(e) 1981 c.67. Section 7 was amended by section 70 of, and paragraph 9 of Schedule 
15 to, the Planning and Compensation Act 
1991 (c.34). There are other amendments to the 1981 Act which are not relevant to 
this Order.  
 31 
“relevant planning authority” means— 
(i) the district planning authority for the area in which the land to which the provisions 
of this Order apply is situated unless the provisions relate to the construction or 
alteration of a hazardous waste facility, in which case it means the county planning 
authority; 
(ii) a National Park Authority; 
(iii) the Broads Authority; and 
(iv) the Greater London Authority if the land to which the provisions of this Order or 
requirements apply is situated in Greater London; 
“rights plan” means the plan certified as the rights plan by the decision-maker for the 
purposes 
of this Order; 
“the sections” means the sections shown on the plan certified as the section drawings 
plan by 
the decision-maker for the purposes of this Order; 
“statutory undertaker” means any person falling within section 127(8), 128(5) or 
129(2) of the 
2008 Act; 
 
 
99
“street” means a street within the meaning of section 48 of the 1991 Act, together 
with land on 
the verge of a street or between two carriageways, and includes part of a street; 
“street authority”, in relation to a street, has the same meaning as in Part 3 of the 1991 
Act; 
“tree preservation order” has the meaning given in section 198 of the 1990 Act; 
“the tribunal” means the Lands Chamber of the Upper Tribunal; 
“undertaker” means the person who has the benefit of this Order in accordance with 
section 
156 of the 2008 Act; 
“watercourse” includes all rivers, streams, ditches, drains, canals, cuts, culverts, 
dykes, 
sluices, sewers and passages through which water flows except a public sewer or 
drain; and 
“the works plan” means the plan certified as the works plan by the decision-maker for 
the 
purposes of this Order. 
(2) References in this Order to rights over land include references to rights to do, or to 
place and 
maintain, anything in, on or under land or in the air-space above its surface. 
(3) All distances, directions and lengths referred to in this Order are approximate and 
distances 
between points on a work comprised in the authorised project shall be taken to be 
measured along 
that work. 
Incorporation of the Railway Clauses Acts 
2.—(1) The following provisions of the Railways Clauses Consolidation Act 1845(a) 
shall be 
incorporated in this Order— 
section 46 (crossing of roads—level crossings), subject to paragraph (4) and article 18 
(level crossings); 
section 58 (company to repair roads used by them), except for the words from “and if 
any 
question” to the end; 
section 61 (company to make sufficient approaches and fences to highways crossing 
on 
the level); 
section 68 (accommodation works by company); 
(a) 1845 c. 20. Section 46 was amended by sections 109(1) and (3) of, and paragraph 
22 of Schedule 8, and Schedule 10 to, the 
Courts Act 2003 (c.39). Section 58 was amended by section 46 of, and Part 3 of 
Schedule 7 to, the Justices of the Peace Act 
1949 (c.101). Section 78 was amended by section 39(3) of, and Schedule 7 to, the 
Compulsory Purchase Act 1968 (c.56) 
and articles 5(1) and (2) of, and paras 1 and 3 of Schedule 7 to, S.I. 2009/1307. 
Section 105 was amended by section 46 of, 
and Part 3 of Schedule 7 to, the Justices of the Peace Act 1949 (c.101), and section 
31(6) of the Criminal Law Act 1977 
(c.45), and sections 37 and 49 of the Criminal Justice Act 1982 (c.48). There are other 
amendments to the 1845 Act not 
 
 
100
relevant to this Order.  
 32 
section 71 (additional accommodation works by owners), except for the words “or 
directed by such justices to be made by the company” and “or, in case of difference, 
as 
shall be authorised by two justices”; 
sections 72 and 73 (supplementary provisions relating to accommodation works); 
section 77 (presumption that minerals excepted from acquisition of land); 
sections 78 to 83, 85 to 85E and Schedules 1 to 3 (minerals under railways), as 
respectively substituted and inserted by section 15 of the Mines (Working Facilities 
and 
Support) Act 1923(a); and 
section 105 (carriage of dangerous goods on railway), except for the words from “and 
if 
any person” to “for every such offence”. 
(2) The following provisions of the Railways Clauses Act 1863(b) shall be 
incorporated in this 
Order— 
sections 5 and 7 (level crossings); and 
section 12 (signals, watchmen etc.). 
(3) In those provisions, as incorporated in this Order— 
“the company” means the undertaker; 
“goods” includes any thing conveyed on the railway authorised to be constructed by 
this 
Order; 
“lease” includes an agreement for a lease; 
“prescribed”, in relation to any such provision, means prescribed by this Order for the 
purposes of that provision; 
“the railway” means any railway authorised to be constructed by this Order and any 
other 
authorised development; and 
“the special Act” means this Order. 
(4) In section 46 of the Railways Clauses Consolidation Act 1845, as incorporated in 
this Order, 
for the proviso there shall be substituted “Provided always that, with the consent of 
the highway 
authority and subject to such conditions as the authority may reasonably impose, the 
railway may 
be carried across a highway on the level.”. 
Application and modification of legislative provisions 
3.—(1) Subject to the modifications set out in paragraph (2) [the following provisions 
of] the 
[insert short title of the relevant Act] shall be incorporated in this Order— 
(a) section X [specify relevant section(s)]; and 
(b) section X [specify relevant section(s)]. 
(4) The provisions of the [insert relevant Act] Act [date] as incorporated in this Order 
shall be 
modified as follows [insert relevant modifications]. 
(5) In construing the [insert relevant Act] Act [date] as incorporated the following 
expressions 
 
 
101
shall have the following meanings [insert relevant expressions and definitions. 
Principal powers 
Development consent etc. granted by the Order 
4. Subject to the provisions of this Order and to the requirements in the Schedule 
(requirements) 
attached to this Order the undertaker is granted— 
(a) 1923 c. 20. Section 15 was amended by section 10(1) of the Decimal Currency Act 
1969 (c.19). 
(b) 1863 c. 92.  
 33 
(a) development consent for the authorised development; and 
(b) consent for the ancillary works, 
to be carried out within the Order limits. 
Maintenance of authorised project 
5. The undertaker may at any time maintain the authorised project, except to the 
extent that this 
Order or an agreement made under this Order, provides otherwise. 
Limits of Deviation 
6. In carrying out linear works the undertaker may— 
(a) deviate laterally from the lines or situations of the authorised development shown 
on the 
works plan to the extent of the limits of deviation shown on that plan; and 
(b) deviate vertically from the levels of the authorised development shown on the 
sections— 
(i) to any extent not exceeding [insert number] metres upwards; or 
(ii) to any extent downwards as may be found to be necessary or convenient. 
Benefit of Order 
7. Subject to article 8 (consent to transfer benefit of Order), the provisions of articles [ 
] and [ ] 
[specify relevant articles] shall have effect solely for the benefit of [specify person, 
body or class 
of person]. 
[NOTE: This article is required where provisions of the Order are specific to a named 
undertaker 
or class of undertaker (see section 156(2) of the 2008 Act).] 
Consent to transfer benefit of Order 
8.—(1) The undertaker may, with the consent of the [specify person or body] — 
(a) transfer to another person (“the transferee”) any or all of the benefit of the 
provisions of 
this Order and such related statutory rights as may be agreed between the undertaker 
and 
the transferee; or 
(b) grant to another person (“the lessee”) for a period agreed between the undertaker 
and the 
lessee any or all of the benefit of the provisions of this Order and such related 
statutory 
rights as may be so agreed. 
(2) Where an agreement has been made in accordance with paragraph (1) references 
in this 
 
 
102
Order to the undertaker, except in paragraph (3), shall include references to the 
transferee or the 
lessee. 
(3) The exercise by a person of any benefits or rights conferred in accordance with 
any transfer 
or grant under paragraph (1) shall be subject to the same restrictions, liabilities and 
obligations as 
would apply under this Order if those benefits or rights were exercised by the 
undertaker. 
Streets 
Street works 
9.—(1) The undertaker may, for the purposes of the authorised project, enter on so 
much of any 
of the streets specified in Schedule B (streets subject to street works) as is within the 
Order limits 
and may— 
(a) break up or open the street, or any sewer, drain or tunnel under it; 
(b) tunnel or bore under the street;  
 34 
(c) place apparatus in the street; 
(d) maintain apparatus in the street or change its position; and 
(e) execute any works required for or incidental to any works referred to in sub-
paragraphs 
(a), (b), (c) and (d). 
(2) The authority given by paragraph (1) is a statutory right for the purposes of 
sections 48(3) 
(streets, street works and undertakers) and 51(1) (prohibition of unauthorised street 
works) of the 
1991 Act. 
(3) The provisions of sections 54 to 106 of the 1991 Act apply to any street works 
carried out 
under paragraph (1). 
(4) In this article “apparatus” has the same meaning as in Part 3 of the 1991 Act. 
[NOTE: This article should not be used for the purposes of authorising street works 
that affect a 
trunk road (as defined in the 1980 Act); no trunk roads should be specified in 
Schedule B (streets 
subject to street works). For any street works affecting a trunk road the undertaker 
should make 
an application for a licence under section 50 of the 1991 Act.] 
Construction and maintenance of new or altered streets 
10.—(1) Any street (other than [insert relevant private streets]) to be constructed 
under this 
Order shall be completed to the reasonable satisfaction of the highway authority and, 
unless 
otherwise agreed with the highway authority, shall be maintained by and at the 
expense of the 
undertaker for a period of [12 months] from its completion and at the expiry of that 
period by and 
at the expense of the highway authority. 
 
 
103
(2) Where a street is altered or diverted under this Order, the altered or diverted part 
of the street 
shall, when completed to the reasonable satisfaction of the street authority, unless 
otherwise 
agreed with the street authority, be maintained by and at the expense of the undertaker 
for a period 
of [12 months] from its completion and at the expiry of that period by and at the 
expense of the 
street authority. 
(3) Paragraphs (1) and (2) do not apply in relation to the structure of any bridge or 
tunnel 
carrying a street over or under any railway of the undertaker. 
(4) In any action against the undertaker in respect of loss or damage resulting from 
any failure 
by it to maintain a street under this article, it shall be a defence (without prejudice to 
any other 
defence or the application of the law relating to contributory negligence) to prove that 
the 
undertaker had taken such care as in all the circumstances was reasonably required to 
secure that 
the part of the street to which the action relates was not dangerous to traffic. 
(5) For the purposes of a defence under paragraph (4), the court shall in particular 
have regard to 
the following matters— 
(a) the character of the street and the traffic which was reasonably to be expected to 
use it; 
(b) the standard of maintenance appropriate for a street of that character and used by 
such 
traffic; 
(c) the state of repair in which a reasonable person would have expected to find the 
street; 
(d) whether the undertaker knew, or could reasonably have been expected to know, 
that the 
condition of the part of the street to which the action relates was likely to cause 
danger to 
users of the street; 
(e) where the undertaker could not reasonably have been expected to repair that part 
of the 
street before the cause of action arose, what warning notices of its condition had been 
displayed, 
but for the purposes of such a defence it is not relevant to prove that the undertaker 
had arranged 
for a competent person to carry out or supervise the maintenance of the part of the 
street to which 
the action relates unless it is also proved that the undertaker had given the competent 
person 
proper instructions with regard to the maintenance of the street and that the competent 
person had 
carried out those instructions. 
(6) Nothing in this article shall—  
 
 
104
 35 
(a) prejudice the operation of section 87 of the 1991 Act (prospectively maintainable 
highways); and the undertaker shall not by reason of any duty under that article to 
maintain a street be taken to be a street authority in relating to that street for the 
purposes 
of Part 3 of that Act; or 
(b) have effect in relation to the street works with regard to which the provisions of 
Part 3 of 
the 1991 Act apply. 
Stopping up of streets 
11.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this article, the undertaker may, in connection 
with the 
carrying out of the authorised project, stop up each of the streets specified in columns 
(1) and (2) 
of Parts 1 and 2 of Schedule C (streets to be stopped up) to the extent specified, by 
reference to the 
letters and numbers shown on the works plan, in column (3) of those Parts of that 
Schedule. 
(2) No street specified in columns (1) and (2) of Part 1 of Schedule C (being a street 
to be 
stopped up for which a substitute is to be provided) shall be wholly or partly stopped 
up under this 
article unless— 
(a) the new street to be substituted for it, which is specified in column (4) of that Part 
of that 
Schedule, has been completed to the reasonable satisfaction of the street authority and 
is 
open for use; or 
(b) a temporary alternative route for the passage of such traffic as could have used the 
street 
to be stopped up is first provided and subsequently maintained by the undertaker, to 
the 
reasonable satisfaction of the street authority, between the commencement and 
termination points for the stopping up of the street until the completion and opening 
of 
the new street in accordance with sub-paragraph (a). 
(3) No street specified in columns (1) and (2) of Part 2 of Schedule C (being a street 
to be 
stopped up for which no substitute is to be provided) shall be wholly or partly stopped 
up under 
this article unless the condition specified in paragraph (4) is satisfied in relation to all 
the land 
which abuts on either side of the street to be stopped up. 
(4) The condition referred to in paragraph (3) is that— 
(a) the undertaker is in possession of the land; or 
(b) there is no right of access to the land from the street concerned; or 
(c) there is reasonably convenient access to the land otherwise than from the street 
concerned; or 
(d) the owners and occupiers of the land have agreed to the stopping up. 
(5) Where a street has been stopped up under this article— 
 
 
105
(a) all rights of way over or along the street so stopped up shall be extinguished; and 
(b) the undertaker may appropriate and use for the purposes of the authorised project 
so 
much of the site of the street as is bounded on both sides by land owned by the 
undertaker. 
(6) Any person who suffers loss by the suspension or extinguishment of any private 
right of way 
under this article shall be entitled to compensation to be determined, in case of 
dispute, under Part 
1 of the 1961 Act. 
(7) This article is subject to article 39 (apparatus etc. of statutory undertakers). 
Application of the 1991 Act 
12. Works carried out under this Order in relation to a highway which consists of or 
includes a 
carriageway shall be treated for the purposes of Part 3 of the 1991 Act (street works) 
as major 
transport works if— 
(a) they are of a description mentioned in any of paragraphs (a), (c) to (e), (g) and (h) 
of 
section 86(3) of that Act (which defines what highway authority works are major 
highway works); or  
 36 
(b) they are works which, had they been carried out by the highway authority, might 
have 
been carried out in exercise of the powers conferred by section 64 of the 1980 Act 
(dual 
carriageways and roundabouts). 
Public rights of way 
13.—(1) With effect from the [date of publication of this Order] [the date of 
certification by the 
local highway authority that the agreed alternative right of way has been created to the 
standard 
defined in the implementation plan], [the section of] the public right of way (being a 
[insert one 
of: footpath/bridleway/byway open to all traffic/restricted byway]) shown marked in 
[red] between 
the points [A] and [B] on the rights plan is extinguished. 
(2) With effect from [that same date] [insert later date] an alternative section of [insert 
description of right of way of that same type] as marked in [green] between the points 
[C] and [D] 
on the rights plan is created. 
(3) In this article— 
“implementation plan” means the written plan agreed between the undertaker and the 
local 
highway authority for creation of the agreed alternative right of way to the defined 
standard; 
and 
“local highway authority” has the same meaning as in section 329(1) of the 1980 Act. 
Temporary stopping up of streets 
 
 
106
14.—(1) The undertaker, during and for the purposes of carrying out the authorised 
project, may 
temporarily stop up, alter or divert any street and may for any reasonable time— 
(a) divert the traffic from the street; and 
(b) subject to paragraph (2), prevent all persons from passing along the street. 
(2) The undertaker shall provide reasonable access for pedestrians going to or from 
premises 
abutting a street affected by the temporary stopping up, alteration or diversion of a 
street under 
this article if there would otherwise be no such access. 
(3) Without prejudice to the generality of paragraph (1), the undertaker may 
temporarily stop up, 
alter or divert the streets specified in columns (1) and (2) of Schedule D (streets to be 
temporarily 
stopped up) to the extent specified, by reference to the letters and numbers shown on 
the works 
plan, in column (3) of that Schedule. 
(4) The undertaker shall not temporarily stop up, alter or divert— 
(a) any street specified as mentioned in paragraph (3) without first consulting the 
street 
authority; and 
(b) any other street without the consent of the street authority which may attach 
reasonable 
conditions to any consent. 
(5) Any person who suffers loss by the suspension of any private right of way under 
this article 
shall be entitled to compensation to be determined, in case of dispute, under Part 1 of 
the 1961 
Act. 
Access to works 
15. The undertaker may, for the purposes of the authorised project— 
(a) form and lay out means of access, or improve existing means of access, in the 
location 
specified in columns (1) and (2) of Schedule E (access to works); and 
(b) with the approval of the relevant planning authority after consultation with the 
highway 
authority, form and lay out such other means of access or improve existing means of 
access, at such locations within the Order limits as the undertaker reasonably requires 
for 
the purposes of the authorised project.  
 37 
Agreements with street authorities 
16.—(1) A street authority and the undertaker may enter into agreements with respect 
to— 
(a) the construction of any new street, including any structure carrying the street over 
or 
under a railway authorised by this Order; 
(b) the maintenance of the structure of any bridge or tunnel carrying a street over or 
under a 
railway; 
 
 
107
(c) any stopping up, alteration or diversion of a street authorised by this Order; or 
(d) the carrying out in the street of any of the works referred to in article 9(1) (street 
works). 
(2) Such an agreement may, without prejudice to the generality of paragraph (1)— 
(a) make provision for the street authority to carry out any function under this Order 
which 
relates to the street in question; 
(b) include an agreement between the undertaker and street authority specifying a 
reasonable 
time for the completion of the works; and 
(c) contain such terms as to payment and otherwise as the parties consider 
appropriate. 
Construction of bridges and tunnels 
17. Any bridge or tunnel to be constructed under this Order for carrying a highway 
over or under 
a railway shall be constructed in accordance with the plans and specifications 
approved by the 
relevant planning authority after consultation with the highway authority. 
Level Crossings 
18.—(1) The undertaker may construct the railway so as to carry it on the level across 
the 
highways specified in Schedule K. 
(2) The undertaker may in constructing any new level crossing alter the level of any 
highway 
specified in Schedule K. 
(3) The highway authority and the undertaker may enter into agreements with respect 
to the 
construction and maintenance of any new level crossing; and such an agreement may 
contain such 
terms as to payment or otherwise as the parties consider appropriate. 
(4) In this article— 
“new level crossing” means the place at which the railway is authorised by this article 
to cross 
a highway on the level; and 
“the railway” means the railway authorised to be constructed by this Order. 
Railway and navigation undertakings 
19.—(1) Subject to the following provisions of this article, the undertaker may not 
under article 
9 (street works) break up or open a street where the street, not being a highway 
maintainable at 
public expense (within the meaning of the 1980 Act)— 
(a) is under the control or management of, or is maintainable by, railway or tramway 
undertakers or a navigation authority; or 
(b) forms part of a level crossing belonging to any such undertakers or to such an 
authority or 
to any other person, 
except with the consent of the undertakers or authority or, as the case may be, of the 
person to 
whom the level crossing belongs. 
 
 
108
(2) Paragraph (1) shall not apply to the carrying out under this Order of emergency 
works, 
within the meaning of Part 3 of the 1991 Act. 
(3) A consent given for the purpose of paragraph (1) may be made subject to such 
reasonable 
conditions as may be specified by the person giving it but shall not be unreasonably 
withheld.  
 38 
(4) In this paragraph “navigation authority” means any person who has a duty or 
power under 
any enactment to work, maintain, conserve, improve or control any canal or other 
inland 
navigation, navigable river, estuary or harbour. 
Supplemental powers 
Discharge of water 
20.—(1) The undertaker may use any watercourse or any public sewer or drain for the 
drainage 
of water in connection with the carrying out or maintenance of the authorised project 
and for that 
purpose may lay down, take up and alter pipes and may, on any land within the Order 
limits, make 
openings into, and connections with, the watercourse, public sewer or drain. 
(2) Any dispute arising from the making of connections to or the use of a public sewer 
or drain 
by the undertaker pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be determined as if it were a dispute 
under 
section 106 of the Water Industry Act 1991(a) (right to communicate with public 
sewers). 
(3) The undertaker shall not discharge any water into any watercourse, public sewer 
or drain 
except with the consent of the person to whom it belongs; and such consent may be 
given subject 
to such terms and conditions as that person may reasonably impose, but shall not be 
unreasonably 
withheld. 
(4) The undertaker shall not make any opening into any public sewer or drain 
except— 
(a) in accordance with plans approved by the person to whom the sewer or drain 
belongs, but 
such approval shall not be unreasonably withheld; and 
(b) where that person has been given the opportunity to supervise the making of the 
opening. 
(5) The undertaker shall not, in carrying out or maintaining works pursuant to this 
article, 
damage or interfere with the bed or banks of any watercourse forming part of a main 
river. 
(6) The undertaker shall take such steps as are reasonably practicable to secure that 
any water 
discharged into a watercourse or public sewer or drain pursuant to this article is as 
free as may be 
 
 
109
practicable from gravel, soil or other solid substance, oil or matter in suspension. 
(7) This article does not authorise the entry into controlled waters of any matter whose 
entry or 
discharge into controlled waters is prohibited by section 85(1), (2) or (3) of the Water 
Resources 
Act 1991(b) (offences of polluting water). 
(8) In this article— 
(a) “public sewer or drain” means a sewer or drain which belongs to the Homes and 
Communities Agency, the Environment Agency, a harbour authority within the 
meaning 
of section 57 of the Harbours Act 1964(c), an internal drainage board, a joint planning 
board, a local authority, a National Park Authority, a sewerage undertaker or an urban 
development corporation; and 
(b) other expressions, excluding watercourse, used both in this article and in the Water 
Resources Act 1991 have the same meaning as in that Act. 
Protective work to buildings 
21.—(1) Subject to the following provisions of this article, the undertaker may at its 
own 
expense carry out such protective works to any building lying within the Order limits 
as the 
undertaker considers necessary or expedient. 
(2) Protective works may be carried out— 
(a) 1991 c.56. Section 106 was amended by the Water Act 2003 (c.37), sections 36(2) 
and 99 subject to the transitional 
provisions contained in article 6 of, and Schedule 3 to, S.I. 2004/641. There are other 
amendments to section 106 which are 
not relevant to this Order. 
(b) 1991 c.57. Section 85(1) was amended by paragraphs 21(1) and (2) in Part 1 of 
Schedule 21 to S.I. 2007/3538. 
(c) 1964 c.40. Paragraph 9B was inserted into Schedule 2 by the Transport and Works 
Act 1992 (c.42), section 63(1) and 
Schedule 3, paragraph 9(1) and (5).  
 39 
(a) at any time before or during the carrying out in the vicinity of the building of any 
part of 
the authorised project; or 
(b) after the completion of that part of the authorised project in the vicinity of the 
building at 
any time up to the end of the period of 5 years beginning with the day on which that 
part 
of the authorised project is first opened for use. 
(3) For the purpose of determining how the functions under this article are to be 
exercised the 
undertaker may enter and survey any building falling within paragraph (1) and any 
land within its 
curtilage. 
(4) For the purpose of carrying out protective works under this article to a building the 
undertaker may (subject to paragraphs (5) and (6))— 
(a) enter the building and any land within its curtilage; and 
 
 
110
(b) where the works cannot be carried out reasonably conveniently without entering 
land 
which is adjacent to the building but outside its curtilage, enter the adjacent land (but 
not 
any building erected on it). 
(5) Before exercising— 
(a) a right under paragraph (1) to carry out protective works to a building; 
(b) a right under paragraph (3) to enter a building and land within its curtilage; 
(c) a right under paragraph (4)(a) to enter a building and land within its curtilage; or 
(d) a right under paragraph (4)(b) to enter land, 
the undertaker shall, except in the case of emergency, serve on the owners and 
occupiers of the 
building or land not less than 14 days’ notice of its intention to exercise that right and, 
in a case 
falling within sub-paragraph (a) or (c), specifying the protective works proposed to be 
carried out. 
(6) Where a notice is served under paragraph (5)(a), (c) or (d), the owner or occupier 
of the 
building or land concerned may, by serving a counter-notice within the period of 10 
days 
beginning with the day on which the notice was served, require the question whether 
it is 
necessary or expedient to carry out the protective works or to enter the building or 
land to be 
referred to arbitration under article 52 (arbitration). 
(7) The undertaker shall compensate the owners and occupiers of any building or land 
in relation 
to which rights under this article have been exercised for any loss or damage arising to 
them by 
reason of the exercise of those rights. 
(8) Where— 
(a) protective works are carried out under this article to a building; and 
(b) within the period of 5 years beginning with the day on which the part of the 
authorised 
project carried out in the vicinity of the building is first opened for use it appears that 
the 
protective works are inadequate to protect the building against damage caused by the 
carrying out or use of that part of the authorised project, 
the undertaker shall compensate the owners and occupiers of the building for any loss 
or damage 
sustained by them. 
(9) Nothing in this article shall relieve the undertaker from any liability to pay 
compensation 
under section 10(2) of the 1965 Act (compensation for injurious affection). 
(10) Any compensation payable under paragraph (7) or (8) shall be determined, in 
case of 
dispute, under Part 1 of the 1961 Act ((determination of questions of disputed 
compensation). 
(11) In this article “protective works” in relation to a building means— 
 
 
111
(a) underpinning, strengthening and any other works the purpose of which is to 
prevent 
damage which may be caused to the building by the carrying out, maintenance or use 
of 
the authorised project; and 
(b) any works the purpose of which is to remedy any damage which has been caused 
to the 
building by the carrying out, maintenance or use of the authorised project.  
 40 
Authority to survey and investigate the land 
22.—(1)The undertaker may for the purposes of this Order enter on any land shown 
within the 
Order limits or which may be affected by the authorised project and— 
(a) survey or investigate the land; 
(b) without prejudice to the generality of sub-paragraph (a), make trial holes in such 
positions 
on the land as the undertaker thinks fit to investigate the nature of the surface layer 
and 
subsoil and remove soil samples; 
(c) without prejudice to the generality of sub-paragraph (a), carry out ecological or 
archaeological investigations on such land; and 
(d) place on, leave on and remove from the land apparatus for use in connection with 
the 
survey and investigation of land and making of trial holes. 
(2) No land may be entered or equipment placed or left on or removed from the land 
under 
paragraph (1) unless at least 14 days notice has been served on every owner and 
occupier of the 
land. 
(3) Any person entering land under this article on behalf of the undertaker— 
(a) shall, if so required, produce written evidence of their authority to do so; and 
(b) may take with them such vehicles and equipment as are necessary to carry out the 
survey 
or investigation or to make the trial holes. 
(4) No trial holes shall be made under this article— 
(a) in land located within the highway boundary without the consent of the highway 
authority; or 
(b) in a private street without the consent of the street authority, 
but such consent shall not be unreasonably withheld. 
(5) The undertaker shall compensate the owners and occupiers of the land for any loss 
or 
damage arising by reason of the exercise of the authority conferred by this article, 
such 
compensation to be determined, in case of dispute, under Part 1 of the 1961 Act 
(determination of 
questions of disputed compensation). 
Removal of human remains 
23.—(1) In this article “the specified land” means [insert description of the land]. 
(2) Before the undertaker carries out any development or works which will or may 
disturb any 
 
 
112
human remains in the specified land it shall remove those human remains from the 
specified land, 
or cause them to be removed, in accordance with the following provisions of this 
article. 
(3) Before any such remains are removed from the specified land the undertaker shall 
give 
notice of the intended removal, describing the specified land and stating the general 
effect of the 
following provisions of this article, by— 
(a) publishing a notice once in each of two successive weeks in a newspaper 
circulating in 
the area of the authorised project; and 
(b) displaying a notice in a conspicuous place on or near to the specified land. 
(4) As soon as reasonably practicable after the first publication of a notice under 
paragraph (3) 
the undertaker shall send a copy of the notice to [insert relevant local authority]. 
(5) At any time within 56 days after the first publication of a notice under paragraph 
(3) any 
person who is a personal representative or relative of any deceased person whose 
remains are 
interred in the specified land may give notice in writing to the undertaker of that 
person’s intention 
to undertake the removal of the remains. 
(6) Where a person has given notice under paragraph (5), and the remains in question 
can be 
identified, that person may cause such remains to be— 
(a) removed and re-interred in any burial ground or cemetery in which burials may 
legally 
take place; or  
 41 
(b) removed to, and cremated in, any crematorium, 
and that person shall, as soon as reasonably practicable after such re-interment or 
cremation, 
provide to the undertaker a certificate for the purpose of enabling compliance with 
paragraph (11). 
(7) If the undertaker is not satisfied that any person giving notice under paragraph (5) 
is the 
personal representative or relative as that person claims to be, or that the remains in 
question can 
be identified, the question shall be determined on the application of either party in a 
summary 
manner by the county court, and the court may make an order specifying who shall 
remove the 
remains and as to the payment of the costs of the application. 
(8) The undertaker shall pay the reasonable expenses of removing and re-interring or 
cremating 
the remains of any deceased person under this article. 
(9) If— 
(a) within the period of 56 days referred to in paragraph (5) no notice under that 
paragraph 
 
 
113
has been given to the undertaker in respect of any remains in the specified land; or 
(b) such notice is given and no application is made under paragraph (7) within 56 days 
after 
the giving of the notice but the person who gave the notice fails to remove the remains 
within a further period of 56 days; or 
(c) within 56 days after any order is made by the county court under paragraph (7) any 
person, other than the undertaker, specified in the order fails to remove the remains; 
or 
(d) it is determined that the remains to which any such notice relates cannot be 
identified, 
subject to paragraph (10) the undertaker shall remove the remains and cause them to 
be reinterred 
in such burial ground or cemetery in which burials may legally take place as the 
undertaker thinks 
suitable for the purpose and so far as possible remains from individual graves shall be 
reinterred in 
individual containers which shall be identifiable by a record prepared with reference 
to the 
original position of burial of the remains that they contain. 
(10) If the undertaker is satisfied that any person giving notice under paragraph (5) is 
the 
personal representative or relative as that person claims to be and that the remains in 
question can 
be identified, but that person does not remove the remains, the undertaker shall 
comply with any 
reasonable request that person may make in relation to the removal and re-interment 
or cremation 
of the remains. 
(11) On the re-interment or cremation of any remains under this article— 
(a) a certificate of re-interment or cremation shall be sent by the undertaker to the 
Registrar 
General by the undertaker giving the date of re-interment or cremation and identifying 
the 
place from which the remains were removed and the place in which they were 
reinterred 
or cremated; and 
(b) a copy of the certificate of re-interment or cremation and the record mentioned in 
paragraph (9) shall be sent by the undertaker to [insert relevant local authority] 
mentioned in paragraph (4). 
(12) The removal of the remains of any deceased person under this article shall be 
carried out in 
accordance with any directions which may be given by the Secretary of State. 
(13) Any jurisdiction or function conferred on the county court by this article may be 
exercised 
by the district judge of the court. 
(14) Section 25 of the Burial Act 1857(a) (bodies not to be removed from burial 
grounds, save 
under faculty, without licence of Secretary of State) shall not apply to a removal 
carried out in 
accordance with this article. 
 
 
114
(a) 1857 c.81. There are amendments to this Act which are not relevant to this Order.  
 42 
Powers of acquisition 
Compulsory acquisition of land 
24.—(1) The undertaker may acquire compulsorily so much of the Order land as is 
required for 
the authorised project [or to facilitate, or is incidental, to it][or is required as 
replacement land]. 
(2) As from the date on which a compulsory acquisition notice under section 134(3) 
of the 2008 
Act is served or the date on which the Order land, or any part of it, is vested in the 
undertaker, 
whichever is the later, that land or that part of it which is vested (as the case may be) 
shall be 
discharged from all rights, trusts and incidents to which it was previously subject. 
(3) Any person who suffers loss by the extinguishment or suspension of any private 
right of way 
under this article shall be entitled to compensation to be determined, in case of 
dispute, under Part 
1 of the 1961 Act. 
(4) This article is subject to article 31 (acquisition of land limited to subsoil lying 
more than 9 
metres beneath surface) and article 35 (temporary use of land for carrying out the 
authorised 
project). 
Compulsory acquisition of land – incorporation of the mineral code 
25. [Part(s)] 2 [and 3] of Schedule 2 to the Acquisition of Land Act 1981(a)(minerals) 
[is/are] 
incorporated in this Order subject to the modifications that— 
(a) paragraph 8(3) is not incorporated; 
(b) for “the acquiring authority” substitute “the undertaker”; 
(c) [insert additional modifications]. 
Time limit for exercise of authority to acquire land compulsorily 
26.—(1) After the end of the period of [5 years] beginning on the day on which the 
Order is 
made— 
(a) no notice to treat shall be served under Part 1 of the 1965 Act; and 
(b) no declaration shall be executed under section 4 of the Compulsory Purchase 
(Vesting 
Declarations) Act 1981 as applied by article 29 (application of the Compulsory 
Purchase 
(Vesting Declarations) Act 1981)(b). 
(2) The authority conferred by article 35 (temporary use of land for carrying out the 
authorised 
project) shall cease at the end of the period referred to in paragraph (1), save that 
nothing in this 
paragraph shall prevent the undertaker remaining in possession of land after the end of 
that period, 
if the land was entered and possession was taken before the end of that period. 
Compulsory acquisition of rights 
 
 
115
27.—(1) The undertaker may acquire compulsorily the existing rights and create and 
acquire 
compulsorily the new rights described in the book of reference and shown on the land 
plan [rights 
plan]. 
(2) As from the date on which a compulsory acquisition notice is served or the date on 
which 
any new right is vested in the undertaker, whichever is the later, the land over which 
any new 
rights is acquired shall be discharged from all rights, trusts and incidents to which it 
was 
(a) 1981 c.67. Sub-paragraph (5) of paragraph 1 of Part 1 of Schedule 2 was amended 
by section 67 of, and paragraph 27(3) of 
Schedule 9 to, the Coal Industry Act 1994 (c.21) and paragraph 8 of Part 3 of 
Schedule was amended by section 46 of the 
Criminal Justice Act 1982 (c.48). There are other amendments to the 1981 Act which 
are not relevant to this Order. 
(b) 1981 c.66. Sections 2 and 116 were amended by section 4 of, and paragraph 52 of 
Schedule 2 to, the Planning 
(Consequential Provisions) Act 1990 (c.11). There are other amendments to the 
1981Act which are not relevant to this 
Order.  
 43 
previously subject so far as their continuance would be inconsistent with the exercise 
of that new 
right. 
(3) Subject to section 8 of the 1965 Act as substituted by article 32 (acquisition of part 
of certain 
properties), where the undertaker acquires an existing right over land under paragraph 
(1), the 
undertaker shall not be required to acquire a greater interest in that land. 
(4) Any person who suffers loss as a result of the extinguishment or suspension of any 
private 
right of way under this article shall be entitled to compensation to be determined, in 
case of 
dispute, under Part 1 of the 1961 Act. 
Private rights of way 
28.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights of way over land 
subject to 
compulsory acquisition under this Order shall be extinguished— 
(a) as from the date of acquisition of the land by the undertaker, whether compulsorily 
or by 
agreement; or 
(b) on the date of entry on the land by the undertaker under section 11(1) of the 1965 
Act 
(power of entry), 
whichever is the earliest. 
(2) Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights of way over land owned 
by the 
 
 
116
undertaker which, being within the limits of land which may be acquired shown on 
the land plan, 
is required for the purposes of this Order shall be extinguished on the appropriation of 
the land by 
the undertaker for any of those purposes. 
(3) Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights of way over land of 
which the 
undertaker takes temporary possession under this Order shall be suspended and 
unenforceable for 
as long as the undertaker remains in lawful possession of the land. 
(4) Any person who suffers loss by the extinguishment or suspension of any private 
right of way 
under this article shall be entitled to compensation to be determined, in case of 
dispute, under Part 
1 of the 1961 Act. 
(5) This article does not apply in relation to any right of way to which section 138 of 
the 2008 
Act (extinguishment of rights, and removal of apparatus, of statutory undertakers etc.) 
or article 38 
(statutory undertakers) applies. 
(6) Paragraphs (1) to (3) shall have effect subject to— 
(a) any notice given by the undertaker before— 
(i) the completion of the acquisition of the land; 
(ii) the undertaker’s appropriation of it; 
(iii) the undertaker’s entry onto it; or 
(iv) the undertaker’s taking temporary possession of it, 
that any or all of those paragraphs shall not apply to any right of way specified in the 
notice; and 
(b) any agreement made at any time between the undertaker and the person in or to 
whom the 
right of way in question is vested or belongs. 
(7) If any such agreement as is referred to in paragraph (6)(b)— 
(a) is made with a person in or to whom the right of way is vested or belongs; and 
(b) is expressed to have effect also for the benefit of those deriving title from or under 
that 
person, 
it shall be effective in respect of the persons so deriving title, whether the title was 
derived before 
or after the making of the agreement.  
 44 
Application of the Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act 1981 
29.—(1) The Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act 1981(a) shall apply as 
if this 
Order were a compulsory purchase order. 
(2) The Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act 1981, as so applied, shall 
have effect 
with the following modifications. 
(3) In section 3 (preliminary notices) for subsection (1) there shall be substituted— 
“(1) Before making a declaration under section 4 with respect to any land which is 
subject 
 
 
117
to a compulsory purchase order the acquiring authority shall include the particulars 
specified in subsection (3) in a notice which is— 
(a) given to every person with a relevant interest in the land with respect to which the 
declaration is to be made (other than a mortgagee who is not in possession); and 
(b) published in a local newspaper circulating in the area in which the land is situated. 
”. 
(4) In that section, in subsection (2), for “(1)(b)” there shall be substituted “(1)” and 
after 
“given” there shall be inserted “and published”. 
(5) In that section, for subsections (5) and (6) there shall be substituted— 
“(5) For the purposes of this section, a person has a relevant interest in land if— 
(a) that person is for the time being entitled to dispose of the fee simple of the land, 
whether in possession or in reversion; or 
(b) that person holds, or is entitled to the rents and profits of, the land under a lease or 
agreement, the unexpired term of which exceeds one month.”. 
(6) In section 5 (earliest date for execution of declaration)— 
(a) in subsection (1), after “publication” there shall be inserted “in a local newspaper 
circulating in the area in which the land is situated”; and 
(b) subsection (2) shall be omitted. 
(7) In section 7 (constructive notice to treat), in subsection (1)(a), the words “(as 
modified by 
section 4 of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981)” shall be omitted. 
(8) References to the 1965 Act in the Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations) 
Act 
1981shall be construed as references to that Act as applied by section 125 of the 2008 
Act to the 
compulsory acquisition of land under this Order. 
Acquisition of subsoil only 
30.—(1) The undertaker may acquire compulsorily so much of, or such rights in, the 
subsoil of 
the land referred to in article 24(1) (compulsory acquisition of land) as may be 
required for any 
purpose for which that land may be acquired under that provision instead of acquiring 
the whole 
of the land. 
(2) Where the undertaker acquires any part of, or rights in, the subsoil of land under 
paragraph 
(1), the undertaker shall not be required to acquire an interest in any other part of the 
land. 
(3) Paragraph (2) shall not prevent article 32 (acquisition of part of certain properties) 
from 
applying where the undertaker acquires a cellar, vault, arch or other construction 
forming part of a 
house, building or manufactory. 
(a) 1981 c. 66. Sections 2(3), 6(2) and 11(6) were amended by section 4 of, and 
paragraph 52 of Schedule 2 to, the Planning 
(Consequential Provisions) Act 1990 (c. 11). Section 15 was amended by sections 56 
and 321(1) of, and Schedules 8 and 
16 to, the Housing and Regeneration Act 2008 (c. 17). Paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 was 
amended by section 76 of, and Part 2 
 
 
118
of Schedule 9 to, the Housing Act 1988 (c 50); section 161(4) of, and Schedule 19 to, 
the Leasehold Reform, Housing and 
Urban Development Act 1993 (c. 28); and sections 56 and 321(1) of, and Schedule 8 
to, the Housing and Regeneration Act 
2008. Paragraph 3 of Schedule 2 was amended by section 76 of, and Schedule 9 to, 
the Housing Act 1988 and section 56 
of, and Schedule 8 to, the Housing and Regeneration Act 2008. Paragraph 2 of 
Schedule 3 was repealed by section 277 of, 
and Schedule 9 to, the Inheritance Tax Act 1984 (c. 51). There are amendments to the 
1981Act which are not relevant to 
this Order.  
 45 
Acquisition of land limited to subsoil lying more than 9 metres beneath surface 
31.—(1) This article applies to the land specified in Schedule F (land of which only 
subsoil 
more than 9 metres beneath surface may be acquired). 
(2) In the case of land to which this article applies, the undertaker may only acquire 
compulsorily under article 24 (compulsory acquisition of land) so much of, or such 
rights in, the 
subsoil of the land as may be required for the purposes of the authorised project. 
(3) Where the undertaker acquires any part of, or rights in, the subsoil of the land to 
which this 
article applies, the undertaker shall not be required to acquire a greater interest in the 
land or an 
interest in any other part of it. 
(4) References in this article to the subsoil of land are references to the subsoil lying 
more than 9 
metres beneath the level of the surface of the land; and for this purpose “level of the 
surface of the 
land” means— 
(a) in the case of any land on which a building is erected, the level of the surface of 
the 
ground adjoining the building; 
(b) in the case of a watercourse or other water area, the level of the surface of the 
ground 
nearest to it which is at all times above water level; or 
(c) in any other case, ground surface level. 
Acquisition of part of certain properties 
32.—(1)This article shall apply instead of section 8(1) of the 1965 Act (other 
provisions as 
divided land) (as applied by section 125 of the 2008 Act) where— 
(a) a notice to treat is served on a person (“the owner”) under the 1965 Act (as so 
applied) in 
respect of land forming only part of a house, building or manufactory or of land 
consisting of a house with a park or garden (“the land subject to the notice to treat”); 
and 
(b) a copy of this article is served on the owner with the notice to treat. 
(2) In such a case, the owner may, within the period of 21 days beginning with the day 
on which 
 
 
119
the notice was served, serve on the undertaker a counter-notice objecting to the sale of 
the land 
subject to the notice to treat which states that the owner is willing and able to sell the 
whole (“the 
land subject to the counter-notice”). 
(3) If no such counter-notice is served within that period, the owner shall be required 
to sell the 
land subject to the notice to treat. 
(4) If such a counter-notice is served within that period, the question whether the 
owner shall be 
required to sell only the land subject to the notice to treat shall, unless the undertaker 
agrees to 
take the land subject to the counter-notice, be referred to the tribunal. 
(5) If on such a reference the tribunal determines that the land subject to the notice to 
treat can 
be taken— 
(a) without material detriment to the remainder of the land subject to the counter-
notice; or 
(b) where the land subject to the notice to treat consists of a house with a park or 
garden, 
without material detriment to the remainder of the land subject to the counter-notice 
and 
without seriously affecting the amenity and convenience of the house, 
the owner shall be required to sell the land subject to the notice to treat. 
(6) If on such a reference the tribunal determines that only part of the land subject to 
the notice 
to treat can be taken— 
(a) without material detriment to the remainder of the land subject to the counter-
notice; or 
(b) where the land subject to the notice to treat consists of a house with a park or 
garden, 
without material detriment to the remainder of the land subject to the counter-notice 
and 
without seriously affecting the amenity and convenience of the house, 
the notice to treat shall be deemed to be a notice to treat for that part. 
(7) If on such a reference the tribunal determines that—  
 46 
(a) the land subject to the notice to treat cannot be taken without material detriment to 
the 
remainder of the land subject to the counter-notice; but 
(b) the material detriment is confined to a part of the land subject to the counter-
notice, 
the notice to treat shall be deemed to be a notice to treat for the land to which the 
material 
detriment is confined in addition to the land already subject to the notice, whether or 
not the 
additional land is land which the undertaker is authorised to acquire compulsorily 
under this 
Order. 
 
 
120
(8) If the undertaker agrees to take the land subject to the counter-notice, or if the 
tribunal 
determines that— 
(a) none of the land subject to the notice to treat can be taken without material 
detriment to 
the remainder of the land subject to the counter-notice or, as the case may be, without 
material detriment to the remainder of the land subject to the counter-notice and 
without 
seriously affecting the amenity and convenience of the house; and 
(b) the material detriment is not confined to a part of the land subject to the counter-
notice, 
the notice to treat shall be deemed to be a notice to treat for the land subject to the 
counter-notice 
whether or not the whole of that land is land which the undertaker is authorised to 
acquire 
compulsorily under this Order. 
(9) Where by reason of a determination by the tribunal under this article a notice to 
treat is 
deemed to be a notice to treat for less land or more land than that specified in the 
notice, the 
undertaker may, within the period of 6 weeks beginning with the day on which the 
determination 
is made, withdraw the notice to treat; and, in that event, shall pay the owner 
compensation for any 
loss or expense occasioned to the owner by the giving and withdrawal of the notice, to 
be 
determined in case of dispute by the tribunal. 
(10) Where the owner is required under this article to sell only part of a house, 
building or 
manufactory or of land consisting of a house with a park or garden, the undertaker 
shall pay the 
owner compensation for any loss sustained by the owner due to the severance of that 
part in 
addition to the value of the interest acquired. 
Application of the Land Compensation Act 1973 
33.—(1) Any regulations made by the Secretary of State under section 20 (sound 
proofing of 
buildings affected by public works) and 20A (power to make payments in respect of 
caravans and 
other structures affected by noise of public works) of the Land Compensation Act 
1973(a) which 
apply to a railway provided or used in the exercise of statutory powers shall apply to 
the railway 
comprised in the authorised project as if that railway was provided or used in the 
exercise of 
statutory powers. 
(2) Section 28 (power to pay expenses) of the Land Compensation Act 1973 shall 
have effect as 
if any works comprised in the authorised project were public works for the purposes 
of that 
 
 
121
section. 
Rights under or over streets 
34.—(1) The undertaker may enter on and appropriate so much of the subsoil of, or 
air-space 
over, any street within the Order limits as may be required for the purposes of the 
authorised 
project and may use the subsoil or air-space for those purposes or any other purpose 
ancillary to 
the authorised project. 
(2) Subject to paragraph (3), the undertaker may exercise any power conferred by 
paragraph (1) 
in relation to a street without being required to acquire any part of the street or any 
easement or 
right in the street. 
(a) 1973 c.26. Section 20 was amended by subsections (6) and (12) of section 146 of, 
and Schedule 13 to, the Road Traffic 
Regulation Act 1984 (c.27). Subsection (10) of section 20 was repealed by section 
343(3) of, and Schedule 25 to, the 
Highway Act 1980 (c.66) and subsection (11) was repealed by section 155 of, and 
Schedule 25 to, the Rent Act 1977 (c.42). 
There are other amendments to the 1973 Act which are not relevant to this Order.  
 47 
(3) Paragraph (2) shall not apply in relation to— 
(a) any subway or underground building; or 
(b) any cellar, vault, arch or other construction in, on or under a street which forms 
part of a 
building fronting onto the street. 
(4) Subject to paragraph (5), any person who is an owner or occupier of land 
appropriated under 
paragraph (1) without the undertaker acquiring any part of that person’s interest in the 
land, and 
who suffers loss as a result, shall be entitled to compensation to be determined, in case 
of dispute, 
under Part 1 of the 1961 Act. 
(5) Compensation shall not be payable under paragraph (4) to any person who is an 
undertaker 
to whom section 85 of the 1991 Act (sharing cost of necessary measures) applies in 
respect of 
measures of which the allowable costs are to be borne in accordance with that section. 
Temporary use of land for carrying out the authorised project 
35.—(1) The undertaker may, in connection with the carrying out of the authorised 
project— 
(a) enter on and take temporary possession of the land specified in columns (1) and 
(2) of 
Schedule G (land of which temporary possession may be taken) for the purpose 
specified 
in relation to that land in column (3) of that Schedule relating to the part of the 
authorised 
project specified in column (4) of that Schedule; 
(b) remove any buildings and vegetation from that land; and 
 
 
122
(c) construct temporary works (including the provision of means of access) and 
buildings on 
that land. 
(2) Not less than 14 days before entering on and taking temporary possession of land 
under this 
article the undertaker shall serve notice of the intended entry on the owners and 
occupiers of the 
land. 
(3) The undertaker may not, without the agreement of the owners of the land, remain 
in 
possession of any land under this article after the end of the period of one year 
beginning with the 
date of completion of the part of the authorised project specified in relation to that 
land in column 
(4) of Schedule G. 
(4) Before giving up possession of land of which temporary possession has been taken 
under 
this article, the undertaker shall remove all temporary works and restore the land to 
the reasonable 
satisfaction of the owners of the land; but the undertaker shall not be required to 
replace a building 
removed under this article. 
(5) The undertaker shall pay compensation to the owners and occupiers of land of 
which 
temporary possession is taken under this article for any loss or damage arising from 
the exercise in 
relation to the land of the provisions of this article. 
(6) Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (5), or 
as to the 
amount of the compensation, shall be determined under Part 1 of the 1961 Act. 
(7) Nothing in this article shall affect any liability to pay compensation under section 
10(2) of 
the 1965 Act (further provisions as to compensation for injurious affection) or under 
any other 
enactment in respect of loss or damage arising from the carrying out of the authorised 
project, 
other than loss or damage for which compensation is payable under paragraph (5). 
(8) The undertaker may not compulsorily acquire under this Order the land referred to 
in 
paragraph (1) except that the undertaker shall not be precluded from— 
(a) acquiring new rights over any part of that land under article 27 (compulsory 
acquisition 
of rights); or 
(b) acquiring any part of the subsoil (or rights in the subsoil) of that land under article 
30 
(acquisition of subsoil only) or in accordance with article 31 (acquisition of land 
limited 
to subsoil lying more than 9 metres beneath surface). 
(9) Where the undertaker takes possession of land under this article, the undertaker 
shall not be 
 
 
123
required to acquire the land or any interest in it.  
 48 
(10) Section 13 of the 1965 Act (refusal to give possession to acquiring authority) 
shall apply to 
the temporary use of land pursuant to this article to the same extent as it applies to the 
compulsory 
acquisition of land under this Order by virtue of section 125 of the 2008 Act 
(application of 
compulsory acquisition provisions). 
Temporary use of land for maintaining authorised project 
36.—(1) Subject to paragraph (2), at any time during the maintenance period relating 
to any part 
of the authorised project, the undertaker may— 
(a) enter on and take temporary possession of any land within the Order limits if such 
possession is reasonably required for the purpose of maintaining the authorised 
project; 
and 
(b) construct such temporary works (including the provision of means of access) and 
buildings on the land as may be reasonably necessary for that purpose. 
(2) Paragraph (1) shall not authorise the undertaker to take temporary possession of— 
(a) any house or garden belonging to a house; or 
(b) any building (other than a house) if it is for the time being occupied. 
(3) Not less than 28 days before entering on and taking temporary possession of land 
under this 
article the undertaker shall serve notice of the intended entry on the owners and 
occupiers of the 
land. 
(4) The undertaker may only remain in possession of land under this article for so 
long as may 
be reasonably necessary to carry out the maintenance of the part of the authorised 
project for 
which possession of the land was taken. 
(5) Before giving up possession of land of which temporary possession has been taken 
under 
this article, the undertaker shall remove all temporary works and restore the land to 
the reasonable 
satisfaction of the owners of the land. 
(6) The undertaker shall pay compensation to the owners and occupiers of land of 
which 
temporary possession is taken under this article for any loss or damage arising from 
the exercise in 
relation to the land of the provisions of this article. 
(7) Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (6), or 
as to the 
amount of the compensation, shall be determined under Part 1 of the 1961 Act. 
(8) Nothing in this article shall affect any liability to pay compensation under section 
10(2) of 
the 1965 Act (further provisions as to compensation for injurious affection) or under 
any other 
 
 
124
enactment in respect of loss or damage arising from the maintenance of the authorised 
project, 
other than loss or damage for which compensation is payable under paragraph (6). 
(9) Where the undertaker takes possession of land under this article, the undertaker 
shall not be 
required to acquire the land or any interest in it. 
(10) Section 13 of the 1965 Act (refusal to give possession to acquiring authority) 
shall apply to 
the temporary use of land pursuant to this article to the same extent as it applies to the 
compulsory 
acquisition of land under this Order by virtue of section 125 of the 2008 Act 
(application of 
compulsory acquisition provisions). 
(11) In this article “the maintenance period”, in relation to any part of the authorised 
project, 
means the period of 5 years beginning with the date on which that part of the 
authorised project is 
first opened for use. 
Special category land 
37.—(1) The special category land shall not vest in the undertaker until the undertaker 
has 
acquired the replacement land and [insert name of relevant body] has certified that a 
scheme for 
the provision of the replacement land as [common/open space/fuel or field garden 
allotment] has 
been implemented to its satisfaction.  
 49 
(2) On the requirements of paragraph (1) being satisfied, the replacement land shall 
vest in 
[insert name of relevant body] subject to the same rights, trusts and incidents as 
attached to the 
special category land; and the special category land shall be discharged from all 
rights, trusts and 
incidents to which it was previously subject. 
(3) In this article— 
“the special category land” means the land identified as forming part of a common, 
open 
space, or fuel or field garden allotment in the book of reference and on the plan 
entitled 
“Special Category Land Plan” attached to the land plan, which may be acquired 
compulsorily 
under this Order and for which replacement land is to be provided; and 
“the replacement land” means the land identified in the book of reference and on the 
plan 
entitled “Replacement Land Plan” attached to the land plan. 
Statutory undertakers 
38. The undertaker may— 
(a) acquire compulsorily the land belonging to statutory undertakers shown on the 
land plan 
within the limits of the land to be acquired and described in the book of reference; 
 
 
125
(b) extinguish the rights of, remove or reposition the apparatus belonging to statutory 
undertakers shown on the [insert name] plan and described in the book of reference; 
and 
(c) acquire compulsorily the new rights over land belonging to statutory undertakers 
shown 
on the [insert name] plan and described in the book of reference. 
Apparatus and rights of statutory undertakers in stopped up streets 
39.—(1) Where a street is stopped up under article 11 (stopping up of streets) any 
statutory 
utility whose apparatus is under, in, on, along or across the street shall have the same 
powers and 
rights in respect of that apparatus, subject to the provisions of this article, as if this 
Order had not 
been made. 
(2) Where a street is stopped up under article 11 any statutory utility whose apparatus 
is under, 
in, on, over, along or across the street may, and if reasonably requested to do so by the 
undertaker 
shall— 
(a) remove the apparatus and place it or other apparatus provided in substitution for it 
in such 
other position as the utility may reasonably determine and have power to place it; or 
(b) provide other apparatus in substitution for the existing apparatus and place it in 
such 
position as described in sub-paragraph (a). 
(3) Subject to the following provisions of this article, the undertaker shall pay to any 
statutory 
utility an amount equal to the cost reasonably incurred by the utility in or in 
connection with— 
(a) the execution of the relocation works required in consequence of the stopping up 
of the 
street; and 
(b) the doing of any other work or thing rendered necessary by the execution of the 
relocation 
works. 
(4) If in the course of the execution of relocation works under paragraph (2)— 
(a) apparatus of a better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is placed in 
substitution for existing apparatus; or 
(b) apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing 
apparatus) is 
placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing apparatus was, 
and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions or the 
placing of 
apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed by the undertaker, or, in 
default of 
agreement, is not determined by arbitration to be necessary, then, if it involves cost in 
the 
44. Regulation 6 of the Hedgerows Regulations 1997 is to be modified so as to read for the 
purposes of this Order only as if there were inserted after paragraph (1)(j) the following— 
 
 
126
“or (k) to the extent specified in and for the purpose of carrying out development which has been 
authorised by an order granting development consent made pursuant to the Planning Act 2008.”. 
 
Signed by authority of the Secretary of State for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy 
 
 
Name 
Date 
Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy 
 
 
127
 
SCHEDULE 1 
Article 3 
AUTHORISED DEVELOPMENT 
 
In the City and County of Swansea— 
A nationally significant infrastructure project as defined in sections 14(1)(a) and 15 of the 2008 
Act, consisting of a generating station with a gross rated electrical output of up to 299MWe 
comprising all or any of the work numbers in this schedule or any part of any work number in this 
schedule — 
Work No. 1A development comprising— 
(a) 1 gas turbine generator; 
(b) 1 exhaust gas emission flue stack; and 
(c) external fin fan cooler(s), 
Work No. 1B development comprising— 
(a) a control room/office/workshop; 
(b) telemetry apparatus and cabling; 
(c) above ground raw water and fire water storage tanks and associated infrastructure; 
(d) fire–fighting equipment, buildings and distribution pipework; 
(e) a demineralised water storage tank; 
(f) an emergency generator including fuel storage tank; 
(g) attenuation pond(s) and connection to drain system; 
(h) chemical storage facilities, other minor infrastructure and auxiliaries/services; 
(i) pipework, pipe runs and pipe racks; and 
(j) cathodic protection test/transformer rectifier unit, 
Work No. 1C development comprising— 
(a) an on–site natural gas receiving station and gas treatment compound containing— 
(i) a pipeline inspection gauge (PIG) receiving facility; 
(ii) isolation valves, metering, heating, filtering, compression, pressure regulation 
equipment; 
(iii) electricity supply kiosks; 
(iv) emergency generator including fuel storage tank; 
(v) Joule–Thomson boiler(s); and 
(vi) control and instrumentation kiosks, 
(b) gas pipelines and telemetry cabling and cathodic protection test/ transformer rectifier unit, 
Work No. 1D development comprising a transformer compound including generator step up 
transformer, unit transformers, bus bar connections and other plant and structures required to 
manage the transmission of electricity, 
Work No. 1E development comprising— 
(a) security infrastructure, including cameras, perimeter fencing and a gatehouse; 
(b) site lighting infrastructure, including perimeter lighting columns; 
(c) internal roadways, car parking, pedestrian network, cycle parking, hardstanding and water 
treatment trailers; 
 
 
128
(d) a maintenance compound including hardstanding and welfare and administration facilities; 
(e) site drainage and waste management infrastructure, including relocation of existing site 
drainage as required; 
(f) electricity, water, wastewater and telecommunications and other services including high 
voltage and low voltage cabling, equipment and controls and associated telemetry and 
electrical protection auxiliary cabling; 
(g) landscaping including tree planting, temporary and permanent fencing and other boundary 
treatments and ecological mitigation; and 
(h) other ancillary equipment, 
Work No. 1F development comprising hardstanding area for maintenance laydown and welfare 
and administration facilities, 
Work No. 2 development comprising a new permanent means of access from the B4489 to 
numbered work 1 including permanent road surface and kerb stones, safety barrier(s), signing and 
road markings, drainage works (including culverts), tree, hedge and fence removal and installation 
of new signing, gates and fencing, telecommunications connections and other services, temporary 
car parking and temporary construction compound and other incidental works, 
Work No. 3 development comprising a temporary construction laydown area including areas of 
hardstanding and site and welfare offices and workshop, and infrastructure to enable plant and 
vehicle crossings of existing underground utilities, 
Work No. 4 development comprising landscaping and ecological mitigation area including tree 
planting and ecological enhancement and boundary fencing, 
Work No. 5A development comprising earthworks and ground raising in connection with Work 
No. 1, 
Work No. 5B development comprising earthworks in connection with Work No. 2, 
and such other buildings, structures, works or operations as may be necessary or expedient for the 
purposes of or in connection with the construction, operation and maintenance of the works in this 
Schedule 1 but only within the Order limits and insofar as they are unlikely to give rise to any 
materially new or materially different environmental effects from those assessed in the 
environmental statement. 
 
 
129
 
SCHEDULE 2 
Article 3 
REQUIREMENTS 
Time limits 
1. The authorised development must commence no later than the expiration of five years 
beginning with the date this Order comes into force. 
Detailed Design 
2.—(1) The authorised development must be carried out in accordance with the approved 
plans, inclusive of any limits of deviation, bearing the references listed below and any other 
plans, drawings, documents, details, schemes, statements or strategies which are approved by the 
relevant planning authority pursuant to any requirement (as the same may be amended by 
approval of the relevant planning authority pursuant to requirement 28(1))— 
 
Table 1 
the works plans 
Submission document reference number 2.3 
rights of way, streets and access plan 
Submission document reference number 2.4 
 
(2) The authorised development must be carried out within the parameters specified in Table 2 
(as the same may be amended by approval of the relevant planning authority pursuant to 
requirement 28(1))— 
 
Table 2 
Building or 
structure 
Maximu
m height 
(metres 
above 90 
metres 
above 
ordnance 
datum) 
Minimum 
height 
(metres 
above 90 
metres 
above 
ordnance 
datum) 
Maximum 
length 
(metres) 
Maximum 
width 
(metres) 
The gas 
turbine 
generator 
(including 
gas turbine, 
generator, air 
inlet filter 
house, air 
inlet duct, 
exhaust 
diffuser, and 
auxiliaries 
such 
as lube oil 
system, air 
dryers, 
fuel gas filter 
package, 
27 
– 
50 
40 
 
 
130
Building or 
structure 
Maximu
m height 
(metres 
above 90 
metres 
above 
ordnance 
datum) 
Minimum 
height 
(metres 
above 90 
metres 
above 
ordnance 
datum) 
Maximum 
length 
(metres) 
Maximum 
width 
(metres) 
instrument 
air system, 
compressor 
washing) 
(Part of 
numbered 
work 1A) 
The exhaust 
gas emission 
flue stack ( 
(part of 
numbered 
work 1A) 
45 
35 
– 
12 
Control 
room/office/ 
workshop 
(part of 
numbered 
work 1B) 
7 
– 
45 
25 
Emergency 
generator 
(part of 
numbered 
work 1B) 
6 
– 
13 
5 
Natural gas 
receiving 
station 
(including 
compression 
station, 
emergency 
generator, 
Joule–
Thompson 
boilers and 
other 
auxiliary 
control 
cabinets) 
(part of 
numbered 
work 1C) 
10 
– 
70 
50 
Gatehouse 
(part of 
numbered 
work 1E) 
4.5 
– 
9 
8 
Demineralise
d water tank 
7 
– 
7 
7 
 
 
131
Building or 
structure 
Maximu
m height 
(metres 
above 90 
metres 
above 
ordnance 
datum) 
Minimum 
height 
(metres 
above 90 
metres 
above 
ordnance 
datum) 
Maximum 
length 
(metres) 
Maximum 
width 
(metres) 
(part of 
numbered 
work 1B) 
Fire water 
tank (part of 
numbered 
work 1B) 
15 
– 
15 
15 
Pipeline 
inspection 
gauge facility 
(part of 
numbered 
work 1C) 
3 
– 
35 
35 
Fin Fan 
Coolers (part 
of numbered 
work 1A) 
10 
 
28 
14 
Transformer 
compound 
(including 
generator 
step up 
transformer, 
unit and other 
transformers, 
connection to 
underground 
cable and 
associated 
equipment) 
(part of 
numbered 
work 1D) 
15 
– 
65 
60 
(3) No part of numbered work 5 may commence until details and sections of the proposed site 
levels for the relevant part of numbered work 5 have been submitted to and approved in writing by 
the relevant planning authority. 
(4) No part of numbered work 1 may commence until, for the relevant part of numbered work 1, 
details of the layout, scale and external appearance of the numbered work have been submitted to 
and approved in writing by the relevant planning authority. 
(5) Work numbered 1 must be designed substantially in accordance with the relevant design 
principles contained within the design principles statement. 
Provision and maintenance of landscaping 
3.—(1) Numbered works 1 and 2 of the authorised development may not commence until, for 
that numbered work, a written landscaping plan (including an implementation timetable) has 
been submitted to and approved in writing by the relevant planning authority. The landscaping 
 
 
132
plan must be substantially in accordance with the landscaping mitigation proposals set out in the 
outline landscape and ecological mitigation strategy, and include details of all proposed hard and 
soft landscaping works. 
(2) All landscaping works must be carried out in accordance with the landscaping plan approved 
under this requirement 3 and to a reasonable standard in accordance with any relevant 
recommendations of any appropriate British Standard(s) or other recognised codes of good 
practice set out in the outline landscape and ecological mitigation strategy. 
(3) All landscaping works and restoration must be carried out in accordance with the 
implementation timetable approved in the landscaping plan. 
(4) Any tree or shrub planted as part of the approved landscaping plan that, within a period of 
five years after planting, is removed, dies or becomes, in the opinion of the relevant planning 
authority, seriously damaged or diseased, must be replaced in the first available planting season 
with a specimen of the same species and size as that originally planted, unless otherwise approved 
in writing by the relevant planning authority. 
Highway accesses 
4.—(1) Numbered work 2 of the authorised development may not commence until, for that 
numbered work, details of the design, layout and (where not already identified in Schedule 3 and 
the rights of way, streets and access plan) siting of any new permanent or temporary means of 
access to a highway to be used by vehicular traffic, or any alteration to an existing means of 
access to a highway used by vehicular traffic has been submitted to and approved in writing by 
the relevant planning authority (in consultation with the highway authority). 
(2) The highway accesses must be constructed in accordance with the approved details. 
Fencing and other means of enclosure 
5.—(1) Each of numbered works 1 to 5 of the authorised development may not commence 
until written details of all proposed permanent and temporary fences, walls or other means of 
enclosure for that numbered work (or for numbered work 5, the relevant part of numbered work 
5) have been submitted to and approved in writing by the relevant planning authority. 
(2) Any construction sites must remain securely fenced at all times during construction of the 
authorised development. 
(3) Any temporary fencing must be removed by the end of three months beginning with the date 
of completion of construction of the authorised development. 
(4) The details approved pursuant to this requirement must be implemented. 
Surface and foul water drainage 
6.—(1) Numbered works 1, 2 and 3 of the authorised development may not commence until, 
for that numbered work, a written surface and foul water drainage plan (including means of 
pollution control) has been submitted to and approved in writing by the relevant planning 
authority. The surface and foul water drainage plan must be in substantial accordance with the 
principles set out in the outline drainage strategy. 
(2) The surface and foul water drainage plan must be implemented in accordance with the 
approved details, prior to final commissioning. 
Surface water management plan 
7.—(1) Numbered works 1, 2, 3 and 5 of the authorised development may not commence until, 
for that numbered work, a written surface water management plan has been submitted and 
approved in writing by the relevant planning authority. The surface water management plan must 
be in substantial accordance with the principles set out in the outline surface water management 
plan. 
 
 
133
(2) The surface water management plan must be implemented in accordance with the approved 
details. 
Pre–construction ecological constraints survey 
8.—(1) No numbered work of the authorised development may commence until for that 
numbered work pre–construction ecological constraints surveys have been undertaken to confirm 
that there are no badgers setts, otters or water voles present in the relevant part of the site prior to 
the commencement of construction of that numbered work. 
(2) The pre–construction ecological constraints survey reports must be submitted to and 
approved by the relevant planning authority, in consultation with Natural Resources Wales. 
Survey reports may be submitted and approved separately for each relevant species. 
(3) In the event that the pre–construction ecological constraints survey reports record the 
presence of badger setts, otter or water vole on the relevant part of the site, the report must set out 
any mitigation measures required. 
(4) All mitigation proposed in the pre–construction ecological constraints survey reports must be 
implemented in accordance with the approved details prior to construction of the relevant work. 
Ecological management plan 
9.—(1) No numbered work of the authorised development may commence until a written 
ecological management plan covering that numbered work has been submitted to and approved 
in writing by the relevant planning authority. The ecological management plan must be in 
substantial accordance with the ecological mitigation proposals set out in the outline landscape 
and ecological mitigation strategy save to the extent that modifications are necessary to reflect 
the findings of any pre–construction ecological constraints surveys. 
(2) The ecological management plan must include an implementation timetable and must be 
carried out as approved in accordance with the approved implementation timetable. 
Invasive species survey and remediation 
10.—(1) No numbered work of the authorised development may commence until an invasive 
species survey covering the relevant part of the site for that numbered work affected by the 
relevant work has been undertaken by a suitably qualified and experienced person or body and 
(where any invasive non–native species are found to be present) a protocol, including an 
associated management, maintenance and monitoring scheme, has been submitted to and 
approved in writing by the relevant planning authority. The protocol shall detail the containment, 
control and removal of any species on the relevant part of the site and shall be substantially in 
accordance with the recommendations set out in Appendix F of the outline landscape and 
ecological mitigation strategy. 
(2) No other works in connection with the development hereby approved shall commence unless 
all the measures set out in the approved protocol have been carried out in accordance with the 
approved protocol. 
Bat Method Statement 
11.—(1) No numbered work of the authorised development may commence until pre–
construction checks substantially in accordance with those outlined in Appendix C of the outline 
landscape and ecological mitigation strategy have been undertaken on trees and hedgerows with 
potential suitability for supporting roosting bats. 
(2) Where any trees and hedgerows proposed for removal are found to support roosting bats no 
works for the removal of such trees and/or hedgerows may be undertaken until a bat method 
statement outlining additional mitigation measures to avoid impacts on roosting bats has been 
submitted to and approved in writing by the relevant planning authority in consultation with 
Natural Resources Wales. 
 
 
134
(3) The authorised development shall be carried out in accordance with the approved Bat 
Method Statement. 
Reptile Method Statement 
12.—(1) No numbered work of the authorised development may commence until a reptile 
method statement detailing the location and specification of fencing, timing and methodology for 
the management of reptiles (which must be substantially in accordance with the measures set out 
in Appendix A of the outline landscape and ecological mitigation strategy) has been submitted to 
and approved in writing by the relevant planning authority in consultation with Natural 
Resources Wales. 
(2) No numbered work shall commence until for each relevant numbered work all measures 
specified in the approved reptile method statement have been completed. 
Archaeology 
13.—(1) Numbered works 1, 2, 3 and 5 of the authorised development may not commence 
until a written scheme for the investigation of areas of archaeological interest covering that 
numbered work has been submitted to and approved in writing by the relevant planning 
authority. 
(2) The scheme must identify areas where field work and/or a watching brief are required, and 
the measures to be taken to protect, preserve or record any significant archaeological remains that 
may be found. 
(3) Any archaeological works or watching brief carried out under the scheme must be by a 
suitably qualified person or body. 
(4) Any archaeological works or watching brief must be carried out in accordance with the 
approved scheme. 
(5) A copy of the watching brief report must be submitted to the relevant planning authority 
within two months of the archaeological fieldwork being completed. In the event that 
archaeological assets are discovered during the watching brief, a programme for preparation and 
submission of an interpretative report must be agreed with the relevant planning authority and an 
interpretative report submitted to the relevant planning authority in accordance with the agreed 
programme. 
Site investigation 
14.—(1) Numbered works 1, 2 and 5 of the authorised development may not commence until a 
site investigation report informed by intrusive ground conditions survey covering an assessment 
of the geotechnical and geo–environmental properties of the substrata for the relevant land for 
that numbered work has been submitted to and approved in writing by the relevant planning 
authority. 
(2) Where identified as necessary by the site investigation report the relevant part(s) of 
numbered works 1, 2 and 5 of the authorised development may not commence until a mining risk 
assessment and/or a foundation risk assessment has been submitted to and approved in writing by 
the relevant planning authority. 
(3) The reports should be undertaken by a suitably qualified person or body and should be 
sufficient to establish if any ground precautions are necessary in relation to the design and 
construction of numbered works 1 and/or 2 and/or 5 in order to minimise any risk of damage 
which might arise as a result of ground conditions. 
(4) A remediation method statement must be submitted, if required, and approved in writing by 
the relevant planning authority, in consultation with Natural Resources Wales. 
(5) Each of numbered works 1, 2 and 5 must be carried out in accordance with the measures set 
out in the approved remediation method statement(s). 
 
 
135
Mineral Resources Survey 
15.—(1) Where the site investigation report identifies the presence of minerals numbered 
works 1, 2 and 5 of the authorised development may not commence until a minerals resources 
survey report covering that numbered work has been submitted to and approved in writing by the 
relevant planning authority. 
(2) The undertaker shall have regard to the approved mineral resources survey report when 
preparing the decommissioning strategy required under requirement 27 (Decommissioning 
Strategy). 
Peat Management Plan 
16.—(1) Where the site investigation report carried out in accordance with requirement 14 
confirms the presence of peat affecting relevant part(s) of numbered works 1, 2, and 5, affected 
parts of numbered works 1, 2 and 5 may not commence until a peat management plan covering 
that numbered work has been submitted to and approved in writing by the relevant planning 
authority in consultation with Natural Resources Wales. 
(2) All construction works must be undertaken in accordance with the approved peat 
management plan. 
Construction environment management plan 
17.—(1) No numbered work of the authorised development may commence until a 
construction environment management plan covering that numbered work has been submitted to 
and approved in writing by the relevant planning authority, in consultation with Natural 
Resources Wales. The construction environment management plan must be substantially in 
accordance with the outline construction environmental management plan and must include the 
following— 
(a) community liaison; 
(b) complaints procedures; 
(c) nuisance management including measures to avoid or minimise the impacts of construction 
works (covering dust, noise, vibration and lighting); 
(d) dust management measures; 
(e) site waste and materials management measures; 
(f) pollution control measures; 
(g) security measures and use of artificial lighting; 
(h) a protocol in the event that unexpected contaminated land is identified during ground 
investigation or construction; and 
(2) All construction works must be undertaken in accordance with the approved construction 
environment management plan and protocols contained therein. 
Dust management plan 
18.—(1) No numbered work of the authorised development may commence until a dust 
management plan covering that numbered work has been submitted to and approved in writing 
by the relevant planning authority, in consultation with Natural Resources Wales. The dust 
management plan must be substantially in accordance with the contents outlined in the outline 
construction environmental management plan. 
(2) All construction works must be undertaken in accordance with the approved dust 
management plan. 
 
 
136
Pollution prevention management plan 
19.—(1) No numbered work of the authorised development may commence until a pollution 
prevention management plan covering that numbered work has been submitted to and approved 
in writing by the relevant planning authority, in consultation with Natural Resources Wales. The 
pollution prevention management plan must be substantially in accordance with the contents 
outlined in the outline construction environmental management plan. 
(2) All construction works must be undertaken in accordance with the approved pollution 
prevention management plan. 
Waste and material management plan 
20.—(1) No numbered work of the authorised development may commence until a waste and 
material management plan covering that numbered work has been submitted to and approved in 
writing by the relevant planning authority, in consultation with Natural Resources Wales. The 
waste and material management plan must be substantially in accordance with the contents 
outlined in the outline construction environmental management plan. 
(2) All construction works must be undertaken in accordance with the approved waste and 
material management plan. 
Construction traffic management plan 
21.—(1) No numbered work of the authorised development other than tree felling may 
commence until a construction traffic management plan covering that numbered work has been 
submitted to and approved in writing by the relevant planning authority in consultation with 
Welsh Government Transport and the Highways Authority. The construction traffic management 
plan must be substantially in accordance with the outline construction traffic management plan 
and is to include— 
(a) construction vehicle routing plans at an appropriate scale for all traffic including abnormal 
indivisible loads showing— 
(i) swept path analysis from the point of entry onto the highway network to the Order 
land; 
(ii) highway mitigation in respect of any identified constraints on vehicle movements 
such as embargo periods, route traffic sensitivity, temporary road works and other 
highway restrictions to be developed following consultation with the South Wales 
Trunk Road Agent, and, where relevant, referring to supporting HD19/03 safety 
audit documentation (as contained within the Design Manual for Roads and Bridges 
Volume 5 Section 2 Part 2 and as amended or replaced); and 
(iii) land ownership boundaries for any required holding areas, passing areas and layover 
areas; 
(b) site access plans at an appropriate scale that include supporting HD19/03 safety audit 
documentation (as contained within the Design Manual for Roads and Bridges Volume 5 
Section 2 Part 2 and as amended or replaced); 
(c) proposals for the management of junctions to and crossings of the public highway during 
delivery of abnormal indivisible loads; 
(d) proposals for the scheduling and timing of movements of delivery vehicles, to be developed 
following consultation with the Welsh Government Transport and potentially affected 
undertakers, and, in relation to any abnormal indivisible loads, details of vehicle parameters, 
number of vehicles in convoy size, dimensions (width, length, height) and weight (total 
vehicle with load and axel loading); 
(e) details of escorts for abnormal indivisible loads highlighting where and when along the route 
private vehicles, banksman and Police vehicles escorts will be used (including emergency 
contingencies); 
 
 
137
(f) proposals for temporary warning signs and banksman for abnormal indivisible loads, 
including provision of plan drawings and associated traffic signs schedule highlighting 
locations along the route where temporary traffic management (including cones and 
temporary signs) needs to be deployed; 
(g) a methodology for undertaking a conditions survey of roads from point of entry onto the trunk 
road network to the Order land that may have a constraining impact on the abnormal 
indivisible load movements including the timescales for undertaking the surveys and the 
method(s) of reporting the findings to the relevant planning authority, comprehensive 
photographs and potential compensation arrangements; 
(h) details of any temporary or permanent improvements to highways; 
(i) proposals for the making good of any incidental damage to highways by construction traffic 
associated with the authorised development including street furniture, structures, drainage 
features, highway verge and carriageway surfaces; 
(j) proposals for traffic management controls (such as temporary signals), diversion routes and 
signage required during any of the activities, operations or works set out in Schedules 3, 4, 5 
or 6; and 
(k) proposals for the notification of occupiers of land adjacent to the construction traffic route of 
the scheduling and timing of abnormal indivisible load movements from the point of exit 
from the trunk road network to the Order land. 
(2) The construction traffic management plan must be implemented as approved for the entire 
duration of the construction period for that numbered work. 
(3) During the operation or decommissioning of numbered work 1 no abnormal indivisible loads 
must be transported into or out of the Order land without the prior written approval of the relevant 
planning authority in consultation with Welsh Government Transport. 
Construction staff travel plan 
22.—(1) No numbered work of the authorised development may commence until a travel plan 
for construction workers has been submitted to and approved by the relevant planning authority. 
The travel plan must be substantially in accordance with the outline construction staff travel plan. 
(2) The travel plan must be carried out as approved during construction of the authorised 
development. 
Construction hours 
23.—(1) No construction work, or the delivery or removal of materials for construction work, 
must take place outside the hours of— 
(a) 0800 and 1800 hours on weekdays (excluding public holidays); and 
(b) 0800 and 1300 hours on Saturdays and public holidays. 
(2) Sub–paragraph (1) does not prevent construction works, or the delivery or removal of 
materials, being carried out outside the hours set out in sub–paragraph (1) with the prior written 
approval of the relevant planning authority and does not apply to commissioning works required 
in advance of the date of final commissioning. 
(3) Nothing in sub–paragraph (1) precludes a start–up period from 0730 to 0800 and a shut 
down period from 1800 to 1830 on weekdays (excluding public holidays) and a start–up period 
from 0730 to 0800 and a shut down period from 1300 to 1330 on a Saturday. 
Dates of final commissioning, completion of construction and cessation 
24.—(1) The undertaker must notify the relevant planning authority in writing of the date of 
final commissioning as soon as reasonably practicable and in any event within three months after 
the occurrence of that date. 
 
 
138
(2) The undertaker must notify the relevant planning authority in writing of the date of 
completion of construction as soon as reasonably practicable and in any event within three months 
after the occurrence of that date. 
(3) The undertaker must notify the relevant planning authority in writing of the date the 
authorised development permanently ceases to generate power on a commercial basis as soon as 
reasonably practicable and in any event within three months after the occurrence of that date. 
Control of noise during operational phase 
25.—(1) Following the date of final commissioning, site–attributable noise arising from the 
operation of numbered work 1 must be limited at all times of day to the noise levels set out in 
column A of Table 3 measured at the coordinates set out in column B of Table 3— 
Table 3 
A 
 
 
B 
B 
Daytime Noise 
Limit BS 4142:2014 
rating level 
(dB LAR) 
Night Time 
Noise Limit BS 
4142:2014 rating 
level (dB LAR) 
Location 
Coordinates X 
Coordinates Y 
45 
39 
Cefn–betingau 
266046 
201482 
41 
40 
Maes–eglwys 
265438 
200654 
48 
43 
Llety Morfil 
Farm
264747 
201105 
45 
41 
Abergelli Farm 
265125 
201643 
 
(2) Noise measurements at or in close proximity to each of the identified locations must be 
undertaken in accordance with British Standard 7445 and submitted by the undertaker to the 
relevant planning authority within a three month period beginning with the date of final 
commissioning, including details of any remedial works and a programme for implementation 
should noise levels exceed the level specified in Table 3 above. 
(3) Any remedial works must be carried out in accordance with the approved programme for 
implementation and the noise measurements must be repeated and submitted to the relevant 
planning authority for approval following completion of remedial works to demonstrate that the 
noise levels are within the limits set out in Table 3 above. 
Control of artificial light emissions during operation 
26.—(1) Numbered work 1 of the authorised development may not enter commercial operation 
until a written scheme for the management and mitigation of artificial light emissions has been 
submitted to and approved in writing by the relevant planning authority. The scheme must be 
substantially in accordance with the outline lighting strategy. 
(2) The approved scheme for the management and mitigation of artificial light emissions must 
be implemented before and maintained during the operation of the relevant numbered work. 
Decommissioning strategy 
27.—(1) Unless otherwise agreed with the relevant planning authority, within twenty four 
months of the Order land ceasing to be used for the purposes of electricity generation (either 
actively generating electricity or being available to generate electricity on a standby basis), a 
scheme for the demolition and removal of all parts of numbered work 1 situated above ground 
along with a proposed implementation timetable for decommissioning works must be submitted 
and approved in writing by the relevant planning authority. 
(2) Subject to obtaining the necessary consents, the demolition and removal of numbered work 1 
must be implemented in accordance with the approved scheme. 
 
 
139
Amendments to approved details 
28.—(1) With respect to the approved plans specified in requirement 2(1), the parameters 
specified in requirement 2 (Detailed Design) and any other plans, details, schemes or matters 
which require approval by the relevant planning authority pursuant to any other requirement (the 
“Approved Plans, Parameters, Details or Schemes”), the undertaker may submit to the relevant 
planning authority for approval any amendments to the Approved Plans, Parameters, Details or 
Schemes and following any such approval by the relevant planning authority the Approved 
Plans, Parameters, Details or Schemes are to be taken to include the amendments approved 
pursuant to this sub–paragraph (1). 
(2) Approval under sub–paragraph (1) must not be given except where it has been demonstrated 
to the satisfaction of the relevant planning authority that the subject–matter of the approval sought 
is unlikely to give rise to any materially new or materially different environmental effects in 
comparison with the authorised development as approved (as identified in the environmental 
statement). 
 
 
140
 
SCHEDULE 3 
Article 8 
STREETS SUBJECT TO PERMANENT AND TEMPORARY 
ALTERATION OF LAYOUT 
PART 1 
PERMANENT ALTERATION OF LAYOUT 
Table 4 
(1) 
Area 
(2) 
Street subject to alteration of 
layout 
(3) 
Description of alteration 
City and County of Swansea 
Rhyd–y–pandy road  
Creation of new access from 
Rhyd–y–pandy road including 
lowering the levels of the kerb 
and 
formation 
of 
new 
junction/bellmouth 
between 
the points marked C and D 
on the rights of way, streets 
and access plan. 
City and County of Swansea 
Footpath LC35A 
Alteration/construction of new 
style/access 
to 
footpath 
between the points marked E 
and F on the rights of way, 
streets and access plan. 
City and County of Swansea 
Private road/track (unnamed) 
Construction over/removal of 
street (comprising part of 
numbered work 1) between the 
points marked K and L on 
the rights of way, streets and 
access plan. 
City and County of Swansea 
Private 
track 
(unnamed) 
running 
south–east 
from 
Abergelli farm (known as “the 
gallops”) 
Construction of crossing over 
private track (comprising part 
of numbered work 2) between 
the points marked K and M 
on the rights of way, streets 
and access plan. 
City and County of Swansea 
Private 
track 
(unnamed) 
running 
south–east 
from 
Abergelli farm (known as “the 
gallops”) 
Removal of street (comprising 
part of numbered work 1) 
between the points marked 
M and N on the rights of way, 
streets and access plan. 
City and County of Swansea 
Public footpath LC32 
Creation of new access road 
(comprising part of numbered 
work 2) between the points 
marked P and Q on the rights 
of way, streets and access 
plan. 
 
 
141
(1) 
Area 
(2) 
Street subject to alteration of 
layout 
(3) 
Description of alteration 
City and County of Swansea 
Private access road (unnamed) 
from B4489 to Swansea North 
substation and Felindre gas 
compressor station 
Creation of new access road 
(comprising part of numbered 
work 2) including the laying of 
new road surface and drainage 
works 
between 
points 
marked T and O on the rights 
of way, streets and access 
plan. 
City and County of Swansea 
Private access road (unnamed) 
from B4489 to Swansea North 
substation and Felindre gas 
compressor station 
Modification and widening of 
existing access (comprising 
part of numbered work 2) 
including widening of existing 
road surface and drainage 
works between the points 
marked W and T on the 
rights of way, streets and 
access plan. 
City and County of Swansea 
B4489/Private 
access 
road 
(unnamed) from B4489 to 
Swansea North substation and 
Felindre 
gas 
compressor 
station 
Widening of existing junction 
visibility 
splay 
at 
B4489 
(comprising 
part 
of 
work 
numbered 2) between the 
points marked X and Y on 
the rights of way, streets and 
access plan. 
 
 
 
142
PART 2 
TEMPORARY ALTERATION OF LAYOUT 
Table 5 
(1) 
Area 
(2) 
Street subject to alteration of 
layout 
(3) 
Description of alteration 
City and County of Swansea 
Rhyd–y–pandy road 
Creation 
of 
temporary 
construction access including 
the lowering of levels of the 
kerb 
and 
formation 
of 
junction/bellmouth 
between 
the points marked C and D 
on the rights of way, streets 
and access plan. 
City and County of Swansea 
Footpath LC35A 
Alteration/construction of new 
style/access 
to 
footpath 
between the points marked E 
and F on the rights of way, 
streets and access plan. 
City and County of Swansea 
Private road/track (unnamed) 
Creation of crossing point(s) 
for 
temporary 
construction 
access within the Order land 
during construction between 
the points marked G and H 
on the rights of way, streets 
and access plan 
City and County of Swansea 
Footpath LC35B 
Creation of crossing point(s) 
for 
temporary 
construction 
access within the Order land 
during construction between 
the points marked G and H 
on the rights of way, streets 
and access plan 
City and County of Swansea 
Private road/track (unnamed) 
Creation of crossing point(s) 
for 
temporary 
construction 
access within the Order land 
during construction between 
the points marked G and I 
on the rights of way, streets 
and access plan 
City and County of Swansea 
Private track running south–
east 
from 
Abergelli 
farm 
(known as “the gallops”) 
Creation 
of 
temporary 
construction 
compound 
(comprising 
part 
of 
work 
numbered 3) between the 
points marked J and M on 
the rights of way, streets and 
access plan. 
 
 
143
(1) 
Area 
(2) 
Street subject to alteration of 
layout 
(3) 
Description of alteration 
City and County of Swansea 
Public Footpath LC32 
Creation of crossing point for 
temporary construction access 
(comprising part of numbered 
work 2) between the points 
marked P and Q on the rights 
of way, streets and access 
plan. 
City and County of Swansea 
B4489/Private 
access 
road 
(unnamed) from B4489 to 
Swansea North substation and 
Felindre 
gas 
compressor 
station 
Temporary 
widening 
of 
existing 
junction 
visibility 
splays from B4489 between 
points marked X and Y on 
the rights of way, streets and 
access plan to provide access 
to works numbered 1 and 2. 
 
 
 
144
 
SCHEDULE 4 
Article 9 
STREETS SUBJECT TO STREET WORKS 
 
Table 6 
(1) 
Area 
(2) 
Street Subject to Street Works
(3) 
Description of the street works
City and County of Swansea 
Rhyd–y–pandy road 
Works to enable the creation of 
a temporary construction access 
between the points marked C 
and D on the rights of way, 
streets and access plan. 
City and County of Swansea 
Rhyd–y–pandy road 
Works to enable the creation of 
a new permanent access 
between the points marked C 
and D on the rights of way, 
streets and access plan. 
City and County of Swansea 
Public Footpath LC35A 
Works between the points 
marked E and F of the rights 
of way, streets and access plan 
to enable the creation of a new 
permanent access. 
City and County of Swansea 
Public Footpath LC35B 
Works for the installation and 
maintenance of a gas pipeline 
and crossing points for 
temporary internal road within 
the Order land between the 
points marked G and H on the 
rights of way, streets and access 
plan.
City and County of Swansea 
Private road/track (unnamed) 
running north–east from 
Abergelli farm to Rhyd–y–
pandy road 
Works for the installation and 
maintenance of a gas pipeline 
and crossing points for 
temporary internal road within 
the Order land between the 
points marked G and H on the 
rights of way, streets and access 
plan. 
City and County of Swansea 
Private road/track (unnamed) 
Works for the installation and 
maintenance of a gas pipeline 
and crossing points for 
temporary internal road within 
the Order land between the 
points marked G and I on the 
rights of way, streets and access 
plan. 
City and County of Swansea 
Private track running south–
east from Abergelli farm 
(known as “the gallops”) 
Works for numbered work 3 to 
be constructed between the 
points marked J and M on the 
rights of way, streets and access 
plan. 
 
 
145
(1) 
Area 
(2) 
Street Subject to Street Works 
(3) 
Description of the street works 
City and County of Swansea 
Private track running south–
east from Abergelli farm 
(known as "the gallops”) 
Works for the construction and 
maintenance of numbered work 
2 between the points marked K 
and M on the rights of way, 
streets and access plan. 
City and County of Swansea 
Private road/track (unnamed) 
Works for the removal of street 
(comprising part of numbered 
work 1) between the points 
marked K and L on the rights 
of way, streets and access plan 
City and County of Swansea 
Public Footpath LC117 
Works in the street comprising 
numbered work 2 and the 
installation and maintenance of 
an electrical cable between the 
points marked P and Q on the 
rights of way, streets and access 
plan. 
City and County of Swansea 
Private road/track (unnamed) 
Works in the street comprising 
the installation and maintenance 
of an electrical cable between 
the points marked R and S on 
the rights of way, streets and 
access plan. 
City and County of Swansea 
Private access road (unnamed) 
leading from B4489 to 
Swansea North substation and 
Felindre gas compressor 
station 
Works in the street comprising 
numbered work 2 between the 
points marked T and W on the 
rights of way, streets and access 
plan. 
City and County of Swansea 
Public Footpath LC34 
Works in the street comprising 
numbered work 2 to be installed 
and maintained between the 
points marked U and V on the 
rights of way, streets and access 
plan. 
City and County of Swansea 
B4489 / Private access road 
(unnamed) from B4489 to 
Swansea North substation and 
Felindre gas compressor 
station 
Temporary and permanent 
widening of existing junction 
visibility splay from B4489 
comprising part of work 
numbered 2 between the points 
marked X and Y on the rights 
of way, streets and access plan. 
 
 
146
 
SCHEDULE 5 
Article 10 
ACCESS 
PART 1 
THOSE PARTS OF ACCESSES TO BE MAINTAINED AT THE PUBLIC 
EXPENSE 
Table 7 
(1) 
Area 
(2) 
Street 
(3) 
Description of relevant part of 
access 
City and County of Swansea 
Rhyd–y–pandy road 
New road surface located in 
the area shown hatched blue 
between points C and D on 
the rights of way, streets and 
access plan. 
 
 
 
147
PART 2 
THOSE PARTS OF ACCESSES TO BE MAINTAINED BY THE STREET 
AUTHORITY 
Table 8 
(1) 
Area 
(2) 
Street 
(3) 
Description of the relevant 
part of access 
City and County of Swansea 
New access from Rhyd–y–
pandy road 
New access from Rhyd–y–
pandy road in the area shown 
hatched pink between the 
points marked C and D on 
the rights of way, streets and 
access plan. 
City and County of Swansea 
Footpath LC35A 
New stile/access to footpath 
between the points marked E 
and F on the rights of way, 
streets and access plan. 
City and County of Swansea 
New private access road 
(unnamed) 
New access road comprising 
part of numbered work 2 and 
shown hatched pink between 
the points marked O and T on 
the rights of way, streets and 
access plan. 
City and County of Swansea 
Private access road (unnamed) 
leading from B4489 to 
Swansea North substation and 
Felindre gas compressor 
station 
Modified access road 
comprising part of numbered 
work 2 and shown hatched pink 
between the points marked T 
and W on the rights of way, 
streets and access plan. 
 
 
148
PART 3 
THOSE WORKS TO RESTORE TEMPORARY ACCESSES WHICH WILL BE 
MAINTAINED AT THE PUBLIC EXPENSE 
Table 9 
(1) 
Location 
(2) 
Street 
(3) 
Description of relevant part of 
access 
City and County of Swansea 
Temporary access from Rhyd–
y–pandy road 
Temporary construction access 
in the area shown hatched pink 
between the points marked C 
and D on the rights of way, 
streets and access plan. 
 
 
149
PART 4 
THOSE WORKS TO RESTORE TEMPORARY ACCESSES WHICH WILL BE 
MAINTAINED BY THE STREET AUTHORITY 
Table 10 
(1) 
Area 
(2) 
Street 
(3) 
Description of relevant part of 
access 
City and County of Swansea 
Private road/track (unnamed) 
Crossing points for temporary 
internal road within the Order 
land between points G and H 
on the rights of way, streets and 
access plan. 
City and County of Swansea 
Footpath LC35B 
Crossing points for temporary 
internal road within the Order 
land between points G and H 
on the rights of way, streets and 
access plan.
City and County of Swansea 
Private road/track (unnamed) 
Crossing points for temporary 
internal road within the Order 
land between points G and I on 
the rights of way, streets and 
access plan. 
City and County of Swansea 
Private track running south–
east from Abergelli farm 
(known as “the gallops”) 
Work numbered 3 between 
points J and M on the rights 
of way, streets and access 
plan. 
 
 
150
 
SCHEDULE 6 
Article 11 
TEMPORARY PROHIBITION OR RESTRICTION OF THE USE OF 
STREETS 
Table 11 
(1) 
Area 
(2) 
Street subject to temporary 
prohibition or restriction of 
use 
(3) 
Extent of temporary 
prohibition or restriction of 
use of streets 
City and County of Swansea 
Council 
Rhyd–y–pandy road 
Prohibition/restriction: 
between points marked A 
and B on the rights of way, 
streets and access plan, being 
approximately 440 metres 
Purpose of the 
Prohibition/restriction: 
temporary restrictions of the 
use of the street, including the 
use of traffic management 
measures (erection of 
temporary barriers and stop/go 
board traffic control or two 
way traffic lights) and 
temporary speed restrictions in 
order to facilitate development 
necessary for the authorised 
development that takes place 
within the Order land 
City and County of Swansea 
Council 
Rhyd–y–pandy road 
Prohibition/restriction: 
between the points marked C 
and D on the rights of way, 
streets and access plan, being 
approximately 139 metres 
Purpose of the 
Prohibition/Restriction: 
Temporary closure(s) of part 
of the street temporary 
closures and restrictions of the 
use of the street, including the 
use of traffic management 
measures (erection of 
temporary barriers and stop/go 
board traffic control or two 
way traffic lights) and 
temporary speed restrictions in 
order to facilitate development 
necessary for the authorised 
development that takes place 
within the Order land 
 
 
151
(1) 
Area 
(2) 
Street subject to temporary 
prohibition or restriction of 
use 
(3) 
Extent of temporary 
prohibition or restriction of 
use of streets 
City and County of Swansea 
Public footpath LC35A 
Prohibition/restriction: 
between the points marked E 
and F on the rights of way, 
streets and access plan, being 
approximately 35 metres 
Purpose of the 
Prohibition/Restriction: 
Temporary closure(s) of all or 
part of the footpath and 
restriction of the use of the 
footpath at any time in order to 
facilitate development 
necessary for the authorised 
development that takes place 
within the Order land 
City and County of Swansea 
Private road/track (unnamed) 
running north–east from 
Abergelli farm to Rhyd–y–
pandy road 
Prohibition/restriction: 
between the points marked 
G and H on the rights of way, 
streets and access plan, being 
approximately 50 metres 
Purpose of the 
Prohibition/Restriction: 
Temporary closure(s) of all or 
part of the street and 
restriction of the use of the 
street at any time in order to 
facilitate development 
necessary for the authorised 
development that takes place 
within the Order land 
City and County of Swansea 
Public footpath LC35B 
Prohibition/restriction: 
between the points marked 
G and H on the rights of way, 
streets and access plan, being 
approximately 50 metres 
Purpose of the 
Prohibition/Restriction: 
Temporary closure(s) of all or 
part of the footpath and 
restriction of the use of the 
footpath at any time in order to 
facilitate development 
necessary for the authorised 
development that takes place 
within the Order land 
City and County of Swansea 
Private road/track (unnamed) 
Prohibition/restriction: 
between the points marked 
G and I on the rights of way, 
streets and access plan, being 
approximately 57 metres 
 
 
152
(1) 
Area 
(2) 
Street subject to temporary 
prohibition or restriction of 
use 
(3) 
Extent of temporary 
prohibition or restriction of 
use of streets 
Purpose of the 
Prohibition/Restriction: 
Temporary closure(s) of all or 
part of the street and 
restriction of the use of the 
street at any time in order to 
facilitate development 
necessary for the authorised 
development that takes place 
within the Order land 
City and County of Swansea 
Private track running south–
east from Abergelli farm 
(known as “the gallops”) 
Prohibition/restriction: 
between the points marked J 
and M on the rights of way, 
streets and access plan, being 
approximately 402 metres 
Purpose of the 
Prohibition/Restriction: 
Temporary closure(s) of all or 
part of the street and 
restriction of the use of the 
street at any time in order to 
facilitate the construction of 
numbered works 1, 2 and 3. 
City and County of Swansea 
Public Footpath LC117 
Prohibition/restriction: 
between the points marked P 
and Q on the rights of way, 
streets and access plan, being 
approximately 76 metres 
Purpose of the 
Prohibition/Restriction: 
Temporary closure(s) of all or 
part of the footpath and 
restriction of the use of the 
footpath at any time in order to 
facilitate the construction of 
numbered works 1, 2 and 3. 
City and County of Swansea 
Private access road (unnamed) 
leading from B4489 to 
Swansea North substation and 
Felindre gas compressor 
station 
Prohibition/restriction: 
between the points marked R 
and S on the rights of way, 
streets and access plan, being 
approximately 39 metres 
 
 
153
(1) 
Area 
(2) 
Street subject to temporary 
prohibition or restriction of 
use 
(3) 
Extent of temporary 
prohibition or restriction of 
use of streets 
Purpose of the 
Prohibition/Restriction: 
Temporary closure(s) of all or 
part of the road and restriction 
of the use of the road in order 
to facilitate development 
necessary for the authorised 
development that takes place 
within the Order land 
City and County of Swansea 
Private access road (unnamed) 
leading from B4489 to 
Swansea North substation and 
adjacent Gas Compressor 
Station 
Prohibition/restriction: 
between the points marked T 
and W on the rights of way, 
streets and access plan, being 
approximately 852 metres 
Purpose of the 
Prohibition/Restriction: 
Temporary closure(s) of all or 
part of the street and 
restriction of the use of the 
street at any time in order to 
facilitate the construction of 
numbered works 1, 2 and 3. 
City and County of Swansea 
Public Footpath LC34 
Prohibition/restriction: 
between the points marked U 
and V on the rights of way, 
streets and access plan, being 
approximately 35 metres 
Purpose of the 
Prohibition/Restriction: 
Temporary closure(s) of all or 
part of the footpath and 
restriction of the use of the 
footpath at any time in order to 
facilitate the construction of 
numbered works 1, 2 and 3. 
City and County of Swansea 
B4489 
Prohibition/restriction: 
between the points marked Z 
and AA on the rights of way, 
streets and access plan, being 
approximately 129 metres 
 
 
154
(1) 
Area 
(2) 
Street subject to temporary 
prohibition or restriction of 
use 
(3) 
Extent of temporary 
prohibition or restriction of 
use of streets 
Purpose of the 
Prohibition/restriction: 
temporary restrictions of the 
use of the street, including the 
use of traffic management 
measures (erection of 
temporary barriers and stop/go 
board traffic control or two 
way traffic lights) and 
temporary speed restrictions in 
order to facilitate the 
construction of numbered 
works 1, 2 and 3. 
 
 
155
 
SCHEDULE 7 
Article 12 
STREETS TO BE STOPPED UP 
Table 12 
(1) 
Area 
(2) 
Street to be stopped up 
(3) 
Extent of stopping up 
City and County of Swansea 
Private road/track 
From the point marked K to 
the point marked L on the 
rights of way, streets and 
access plan, being 
approximately 278 metres 
City and County of Swansea 
Private road/tracks running 
south–east from Abergelli 
farm (known as “the gallops”) 
From the point marked M to 
the point marked N on the 
rights of way, streets and 
access plan, being 
approximately 355 metres 
 
 
156
 
SCHEDULE 8 
Article 23 
MODIFICATION OF COMPENSATION AND COMPULSORY 
PURCHASE ENACTMENTS FOR CREATION OF NEW RIGHTS 
AND IMPOSITION OF NEW RESTRICTIONS 
Compensation enactments 
1. The enactments for the time being in force with respect to compensation for the compulsory 
purchase of land apply, with the necessary modifications as respects compensation, in the case of 
a compulsory acquisition under this Order of a right by the creation of a new right as they apply 
as respects compensation on the compulsory purchase of land and interests in land. 
2.—(1) Without prejudice to the generality of paragraph 1, the Land Compensation Act 
1973(a) has effect subject to the modifications set out in sub–paragraph (2). 
(2) In section 44(1) (compensation for injurious affection), as it applies to compensation for 
injurious affection under section 7 of the 1965 Act as substituted by paragraph 4(2)— 
(a) for the words “land is acquired or taken” there are substituted the words “a right or restrictive 
covenant over land is purchased from or imposed on”; and 
(b) for the words “acquired or taken from him” there are substituted the words “over which the 
right is exercisable or the restrictive covenant enforceable”. 
3.—(1) Without limitation on the scope of paragraph 1, the Land Compensation Act 1961 has 
effect subject to the modification set out in sub–paragraph (2). 
(2) For section 5A (5A) (relevant valuation date) of the 1961 Act, for (a) and (b) substitute— 
“(a) the acquiring authority enters on land for the purpose of exercising a right in 
pursuance of a notice of entry under section 11(1) of the 1965 Act; and 
(b) the acquiring authority is subsequently required by a determination under 
paragraph 13 of Schedule 2A to the 1965 Act (as substituted by paragraph 9 of 
Schedule 8 to the Abergelli Gas Fired Generating Station Order 201[X] to acquire 
an interest in the land, and” 
Application of the 1965 Act 
4.—(1) For the purposes of Article 26 only the 1965 Act is subject to the modifications in sub–
paragraph 3(2). 
(2) For section 7 of the 1965 Act (measure of compensation) there is substituted the following 
section— 
“7. In assessing the compensation to be paid by the acquiring authority under this Act, 
regard must be had not only to the extent (if any) to which the value of the land over which 
the right is to be acquired or the restrictive covenant is to be imposed is depreciated by the 
acquisition of the right or the imposition of the covenant but also to the damage (if any) to 
be sustained by the owner of the land by reason of its severance from other land of the 
owner, or injuriously affecting that other land by the exercise of the powers conferred by 
this or the special Act.”. 
5. The following provisions of the 1965 Act (which state the effect of a deed poll executed in 
various circumstances where there is no conveyance by persons with interests in the land), that is 
to say— 
(a) section 9(4) (failure by owners to convey); 
(b) paragraph 10(3) of Schedule 1 (owners under incapacity); 
                                                                                                                                       
(a) 1973 c.26. 
 
 
157
(c) paragraph 2(3) of Schedule 2 (absent and untraced owners); and 
(d) paragraphs 2(3) and 7(2) of Schedule 4 (common land), 
are so modified as to secure that, as against persons with interests in the land which are expressed 
to be overridden by the deed, the right which is to be compulsorily acquired or the restrictive 
covenant which is to be imposed is vested absolutely in the acquiring authority. 
6. Section 11 of the 1965 Act (powers of entry) is modified as to secure that, as from the date 
on which the acquiring authority has served notice to treat in respect of any right it has power, 
exercisable in equivalent circumstances and subject to equivalent conditions, to enter for the 
purpose of exercising that right or enforcing that restrictive covenant (which is deemed for this 
purpose to have been created on that date of service of the notice); and sections 12 (penalty for 
unauthorised entry) and 13 (entry on warrant in the event of obstruction) of the 1965 Act are 
modified correspondingly. 
7. Section 20 of the 1965 Act (protection for interests of tenants at will, etc.) applies with the 
modifications necessary to secure that persons with such interests in land as are mentioned in that 
section are compensated in a manner corresponding to that in which they would be compensated 
on a compulsory acquisition under this Order of that land, but taking into account only the extent 
(if any) of such interference with such an interest as is actually caused, or likely to be caused, by 
the exercise of the right or the enforcement of the restrictive covenant in question. 
8. Section 22 of the 1965 Act (protection of acquiring authority’s possession where by 
inadvertence an estate, right or interest has not been got in) is modified as to enable the acquiring 
authority, in circumstances corresponding to those referred to in that section, to continue to be 
entitled to exercise the right acquired, subject to compliance with that section as respects 
compensation. 
9. For schedule 2A to the 1965 Act substitute— 
“SCHEDULE 2A 
COUNTER–NOTICE REQUIRING PURCHASE OF LAND 
Introduction 
1.This Schedule applies where an acquiring authority serve a notice to treat in respect of a 
right over, or restrictive covenant affecting, the whole or part of a house, building or factory 
and have not executed a general vesting declaration under section 4 of the 1981 Act as 
applied by article 24 (application of the Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act 
1981) in respect of the land to which the notice to treat relates. 
2.In this Schedule, “house” includes any park or garden belonging to a house. 
Counter–notice requiring purchase of land 
3.A person who is able to sell the house, building or factory (“the owner”) may serve a 
counter–notice requiring the authority to purchase the owner’s interest in the house, 
building or factory. 
4.A counter–notice under paragraph 3 must be served within the period of 28 days 
beginning with the day on which the notice to treat was served. 
Response to counter–notice 
5.On receiving a counter–notice, the acquiring authority must decide whether to— 
(a) withdraw the notice to treat, 
(b) accept the counter–notice, or 
(c) refer the counter–notice to the Upper Tribunal. 
 
 
158
6.The authority must serve notice of their decision on the owner within the period of 3 
months beginning with the day on which the counter–notice is served (“the decision 
period”). 
7.If the authority decide to refer the counter–notice to the Upper Tribunal they must do so 
within the decision period. 
8.If the authority do not serve notice of a decision within the decision period they are to 
be treated as if they had served notice of a decision to withdraw the notice to treat at the end 
of that period. 
9.If the authority serve notice of a decision to accept the counter–notice, the compulsory 
purchase order and the notice to treat are to have effect as if they included the owner’s 
interest in the house, building or factory. 
Determination by Upper Tribunal 
10.On a referral under paragraph 7, the Upper Tribunal must determine whether the 
acquisition of the right or the imposition of the restrictive covenant would— 
(a) in the case of a house, building or factory, cause material detriment to the house, 
building or factory, or 
(b) in the case of a park or garden, seriously affect the amenity or convenience of the 
house to which the park or garden belongs. 
11.In making its determination, the Upper Tribunal must take into account— 
(a) the effect of the acquisition of the right or the imposition of the covenant, 
(b) the use to be made of the right or covenant proposed to be acquired or imposed, 
and 
(c) if the right or covenant is proposed to be acquired or imposed for works or other 
purposes extending to other land, the effect of the whole of the works and the use 
of the other land. 
12.If the Upper Tribunal determines that the acquisition of the right or the imposition of 
the covenant would have either of the consequences described in paragraph 10, it must 
determine how much of the house, building or factory the authority ought to be required to 
take. 
13.If the Upper Tribunal determines that the authority ought to be required to take some 
or all of the house, building or factory, the compulsory purchase order and the notice to 
treat are to have effect as if they included the owner’s interest in that land. 
14.—(1) If the Upper Tribunal determines that the authority ought to be required to take 
some or all of the house, building or factory, the authority may at any time within the 
period of 6 weeks beginning with the day on which the Upper Tribunal makes its 
determination withdraw the notice to treat in relation to that land. 
(2) If the acquiring authority withdraws the notice to treat under this paragraph they must 
pay the person on whom the notice was served compensation for any loss or expense 
caused by the giving and withdrawal of the notice. 
(3) Any dispute as to the compensation is to be determined by the Upper Tribunal.” 
 
 
159
 
SCHEDULE 9 
Article 29 
LAND OF WHICH TEMPORARY POSSESSION MAY BE TAKEN 
Table 13 
(1) 
Location 
(2) 
Number of land shown on 
land plans 
(3) 
Purpose for which temporary 
possession may be taken 
Land at Abergelli Fach 
Farm, Felindre, Swansea 
4A 
Temporary use to facilitate 
construction of other 
development necessary for the 
authorised development that 
takes place within the Order 
land 
Land at Abergelli Fach 
Farm, Felindre, Swansea 
5A 
Temporary use to facilitate 
construction of other 
development necessary for the 
authorised development that 
takes place within the Order 
land 
Land at Abergelli Fach 
Farm, Felindre, Swansea 
5B 
Temporary use to facilitate 
construction of other development 
necessary for the authorised 
development that takes place 
within the Order land 
Land at Abergelli Fach 
Farm, Felindre, Swansea 
6A 
Temporary use to facilitate 
construction of other development 
necessary for the authorised 
development that takes place 
within the Order land 
Land at Abergelli Fach 
Farm, Felindre, Swansea 
6B 
Temporary use to facilitate 
construction of other development 
necessary for the authorised 
development that takes place 
within the Order land 
Land at Abergelli Fach 
Farm, Felindre, Swansea 
7A 
Temporary use to facilitate 
construction of other development 
necessary for the authorised 
development that takes place 
within the Order land 
Land at Abergelli Fach 
Farm, Felindre, Swansea 
7B 
Temporary use to facilitate 
construction for numbered works 
1, 2, 3 and 5 and other 
development necessary for the 
authorised development that takes 
place within the Order land 
Land at Abergelli Fach 
Farm, Felindre, Swansea 
7C 
Temporary use to facilitate 
construction for numbered works 
1, 2, 3 and 5 and other 
development necessary for the 
authorised development that takes 
place within the Order land 
 
 
160
(1) 
Location 
(2) 
Number of land shown on 
land plans 
(3) 
Purpose for which temporary 
possession may be taken 
Land at Abergelli Fach 
Farm, Felindre, Swansea 
11B 
Temporary use to facilitate 
construction for numbered works 
1, 2, 3 and 5 and other 
development necessary for the 
authorised development that takes 
place within the Order land 
Land forming part of 
Maeseglwys Farm, 
Felindre, Swansea 
13A 
Temporary use to facilitate 
construction for numbered works 
1, 2, 3 and 5 and other 
development necessary for the 
authorised development that takes 
place within the Order land 
Land forming part of 
Maeseglwys Farm, 
Felindre, Swansea 
13B 
Temporary use to facilitate 
construction for numbered works 
2 and 5 and other development 
necessary for the authorised 
development that takes place 
within the Order land 
Land forming part of 
Swansea North Substation, 
Felindre, Swansea 
16A 
Temporary use to facilitate 
construction for numbered 
works 2 and 5 and other 
development necessary for the 
authorised development that 
takes place within the Order 
land 
Land forming part of 
disused historic access 
track to South of Gas 
Compressor Station, 
Felindre, Swansea 
17A 
Temporary use to facilitate 
construction for numbered 
works 2 and 5 and other 
development necessary for the 
authorised development that 
takes place within the Order 
land 
Land forming part of 
disused historic access 
track to South of Gas 
Compressor Station, 
Felindre, Swansea 
17B 
Temporary use to facilitate 
construction for numbered 
works 2 and 5 and other 
development necessary for the 
authorised development that 
takes place within the Order 
land 
Land forming part of Bryn 
Whilach Farm, Felindre, 
Swansea 
18A 
Temporary use to facilitate 
construction for numbered 
works 2 and 5 and other 
development necessary for the 
authorised development that 
takes place within the Order 
land 
Land forming part of Bryn 
Whilach Farm, Felindre, 
Swansea 
18B 
Temporary use to facilitate 
construction for numbered 
works 2 and 5 and other 
development necessary for the 
authorised development that 
takes place within the Order 
land 
 
 
161
(1) 
Location 
(2) 
Number of land shown on 
land plans 
(3) 
Purpose for which temporary 
possession may be taken 
Land forming part of 
Swansea North Substation, 
Felindre, Swansea 
19A 
Temporary use to facilitate 
construction for numbered 
works 2 and 5 and other 
development necessary for the 
authorised development that 
takes place within the Order 
land 
 
 
162
 
SCHEDULE 10 
Article 35 
REMOVAL OF HEDGEROWS 
Table 14 
(1) Location 
(2) Identity of hedgerow shown 
on hedgerow plan 
(3) Extent of hedgerow that 
may be removed 
City and County of Swansea 
Hedgerow B-B 
Up to 210.47 metres 
City and County of Swansea 
Hedgerow C-C (to the extent 
within the Order Land)
Up to 10 metres 
 
 
163
 
SCHEDULE 11(a) 
Article 39 
PROTECTIVE PROVISIONS 
PART 1 
FOR THE PROTECTION OF ELECTRICITY, GAS, WATER AND SEWERAGE 
UNDERTAKERS 
1. For the protection of the utility undertakers referred to in this part of this Schedule (save for 
National Grid which is protected by Part 3 of this Schedule, Western Power Distribution (South 
Wales) plc which is protected by Part 4 of this Schedule, Dwr Cymru Cyfyngedig which is 
protected by Part 5 of this Schedule, Abergelli Solar Limited which is protected by Part 6 of this 
Schedule and Wales and West Utilities Limited which is protected by Part 7 of this Schedule), 
the following provisions have effect, unless otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker 
and the utility undertakers concerned. 
2. In this part of this Schedule— 
“alternative apparatus” means alternative apparatus adequate to enable the utility undertaker in 
question to fulfil its statutory functions in a manner not less efficient than previously; 
“apparatus" means— 
(a) in the case of an electricity undertaker, electric lines or electrical plant (as defined in the 
Electricity Act 1989(b)), belonging to or maintained by that utility undertaker; 
(b) in the case of a gas undertaker, any mains, pipes or other apparatus belonging to or 
maintained by a gas transporter for the purposes of gas supply; 
(c) in the case of a water undertaker— 
(i) mains, pipes or other apparatus belonging to or maintained by that utility undertaker 
for the purposes of water supply; and 
(ii) any water mains or service pipes (or part of a water main or service pipe) that is the 
subject of an agreement to adopt made under section 51A of the Water Industry Act 
1991(c)); 
(d) in the case of a sewerage undertaker— 
(i) any drain or works vested in the utility undertaker under the Water Industry Act 
1991; and 
(ii) any sewer which is so vested or is the subject of a notice of intention to adopt given 
under section 102(4) of that Act(d) or an agreement to adopt made under section 104 
of that Act, 
and includes a sludge main, disposal main (within the meaning of section 219 of that Act) or 
sewer outfall and any manholes, ventilating shafts, pumps or other accessories forming part of any 
such sewer, drain or works, and includes any structure in which apparatus is or is to be lodged or 
which gives or will give access to apparatus; 
“functions” includes powers and duties; 
“in”, in a context referring to apparatus or alternative apparatus in land, includes a reference to 
apparatus or alternative apparatus under, over or upon land; and 
                                                                                                                                       
(a)  The protective provisions within this Schedule are draft protective provisions and are being discussed with the relevant 
statutory undertaker. 
(b) 1989 c.29. Section 64 was amended by the Utilities Act 2000 (c.27); Schedule 6, paragraph 38(3). There are other 
amendments to this section that are not relevant to this Order. 
(c) 1991 c.56; Section 51A to the 1991 Act was inserted by section 92(1) of the Water Act 2003 (c.37) and amended by 
sections 10(2)(a), 10(2)(b) and 10(2)(c) of the Water Act 2014 (c.21). 
(d) 1991 c.56. Section 102 was amended by sections 96(1)(a), 96(1)(b), 96(1)(c), 96(1)(d) and 96(1)(e) of the Water Act 2003 
c.37 and paragraph 90 of Schedule 7 to the Water Act 2014 c.21. 
 
 
164
“utility undertaker” means— 
(e) any licence holder within the meaning of Part 1 of the Electricity Act 1989; 
(f) a gas transporter within the meaning of Part 1 of the Gas Act 1986(a); 
(g) a water undertaker within the meaning of the Water Industry Act 1991; and 
(h) a sewerage undertaker within the meaning of Part 1 of the Water Industry Act 1991, 
for the area of the authorised development, and in relation to any apparatus, means the utility 
undertaker to whom it belongs or by whom it is maintained. 
3. This part of this Schedule does not apply to apparatus in respect of which the relations 
between the undertaker and the utility undertaker are regulated by the provisions of Part 3 of the 
1991 Act. 
4. Regardless of the temporary prohibition or restriction of use of streets under the powers 
conferred by article 11 (temporary prohibition or restriction of use of streets), a utility undertaker 
is at liberty at all times to take all necessary access across any such street and to execute and do 
all such works and things in, upon or under any such street as may be reasonably necessary or 
desirable to enable it to maintain any apparatus which at the time of the prohibition or restriction 
was in that street. 
5. Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on the land plans, the 
undertaker must not acquire any apparatus otherwise than by agreement. 
6.—(1) If, in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order, the undertaker acquires any 
interest in any land in which any apparatus is placed or over which access to any apparatus is 
enjoyed or requires that the utility undertaker’s apparatus is relocated or diverted, that apparatus 
must not be removed under this part of this Schedule, and any right of a utility undertaker to 
maintain that apparatus in that land and to gain access to it must not be extinguished, until 
alternative apparatus has been constructed and is in operation, and access to it has been provided, 
to the reasonable satisfaction of the utility undertaker in question in accordance with sub–
paragraphs (2) to (7). 
(2) If, for the purpose of executing any works in, on or under any land purchased, held, 
appropriated or used under this Order, the undertaker requires the removal of any apparatus placed 
in that land, the undertaker must give to the utility undertaker in question written notice of that 
requirement, together with a plan and section of the work proposed, and of the proposed position 
of the alternative apparatus to be provided or constructed and in that case (or if in consequence of 
the exercise of any of the powers conferred by this Order a utility undertaker reasonably needs to 
remove any of its apparatus) the undertaker must, subject to sub–paragraph (3), afford to the utility 
undertaker the necessary facilities and rights for the construction of alternative apparatus in other 
land of the undertaker and subsequently for the maintenance of that apparatus. 
(3) If alternative apparatus or any part of such apparatus is to be constructed elsewhere than in 
other land of the undertaker, or the undertaker is unable to afford such facilities and rights as are 
mentioned in sub–paragraph (2), in the land in which the alternative apparatus or part of such 
apparatus is to be constructed, the utility undertaker in question must, on receipt of a written 
notice to that effect from the undertaker, as soon as reasonably possible use reasonable endeavours 
to obtain the necessary facilities and rights in the land in which the alternative apparatus is to be 
constructed. 
(4) Any alternative apparatus to be constructed in land of the undertaker under this part of this 
Schedule must be constructed in such manner and in such line or situation as may be agreed 
between the utility undertaker in question and the undertaker or in default of agreement settled by 
arbitration in accordance with article 43 (arbitration). 
(5) The utility undertaker in question must, after the alternative apparatus to be provided or 
constructed has been agreed or settled by arbitration in accordance with article 43 (arbitration), 
                                                                                                                                       
(a) 1986 c.44. A new section 7 was substituted by section 5 of the Gas Act 1995 (c.45), and was further amended by section 76 
of the Utilities Act 2000 (c.27), Section 48 was amended by paragraph 1 of Schedule 6 to the Gas Act 1995 (c.45). 
 
 
165
and after the grant to the utility undertaker of any such facilities and rights as are referred to in 
sub–paragraph (2) or (3), proceed without unnecessary delay to construct and bring into operation 
the alternative apparatus and subsequently to remove any apparatus required by the undertaker to 
be removed under the provisions of this part of this Schedule. 
(6) Regardless of anything in sub–paragraph (5), if the undertaker gives notice in writing to the 
utility undertaker in question that it desires itself to execute any work, or part of any work, in 
connection with the construction or removal of apparatus in any land controlled by the undertaker, 
that work, instead of being executed by the utility undertaker, must be executed by the undertaker 
without unnecessary delay under the superintendence, if given, and to the reasonable satisfaction 
of the utility undertaker. 
(7) Nothing in sub–paragraph (6) authorises the undertaker to execute the placing, installation, 
bedding, packing, removal, connection or disconnection of any apparatus, or execute any filing 
around the apparatus (where the apparatus is laid in a trench) within 300 millimetres of the 
apparatus. 
7.—(1) Where, in accordance with the provisions of this part of this Schedule, the undertaker 
affords to a utility undertaker facilities and rights for the construction and maintenance in land of 
the undertaker of alternative apparatus in substitution for apparatus to be removed, those 
facilities and rights must be granted upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed between 
the undertaker and the utility undertaker in question or in default of agreement settled by 
arbitration in accordance with article 43 (arbitration). 
(2) If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the undertaker in respect of any alternative 
apparatus, and the terms and conditions subject to which those facilities and rights are to be 
granted, are in the opinion of the arbitrator less favourable on the whole to the utility undertaker in 
question than the facilities and rights enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be removed and 
the terms and conditions to which those facilities and rights are subject, the arbitrator must make 
such provision for the payment of compensation by the undertaker to that utility undertaker as 
appears to the arbitrator to be reasonable having regard to all the circumstances of the particular 
case. 
8.—(1) Not less than 28 days before starting the execution of any works in, on or under any 
land purchased, held, appropriated or used under this Order that are near to, or will or may affect, 
any apparatus the removal of which has not been required by the undertaker under paragraph (3), 
the undertaker must submit to the utility undertaker in question a plan, section and description of 
the works to be executed. 
(2) Those works must be executed only in accordance with the plan, section and description 
submitted under sub–paragraph (1) and in accordance with such reasonable requirements as may 
be made in accordance with sub–paragraph (3) by the utility undertaker for the alteration or 
otherwise for the protection of the apparatus, or for the securing access to it, and the utility 
undertaker is entitled to watch and inspect the execution of those works. 
(3) Any requirements made by a utility undertaker under sub–paragraph (2) must be made 
within a period of 21 days beginning with the date on which a plan, section and description under 
sub–paragraph (1) are submitted to it. 
(4) If a utility undertaker in accordance with sub–paragraph (3) and in consequence of the works 
proposed by the undertaker, reasonably requires the removal of any apparatus and gives written 
notice to the undertaker of that requirement, paragraphs 1 to 7 apply as if the removal of the 
apparatus had been required by the undertaker under paragraph 6(2). 
(5) Nothing in this paragraph precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time or from time 
to time, but in no case less than 28 days before commencing the execution of any works, a new 
plan, section and description instead of the plan, section and description previously submitted, and 
having done so the provisions of this paragraph apply to and in respect of the new plan, section 
and description. 
(6) The undertaker is not required to comply with sub–paragraph (1) in a case of emergency but 
in that case it must give to the utility undertaker in question notice as soon as is reasonably 
practicable and a plan, section and description of those works as soon as reasonably practicable 
 
 
166
subsequently and must comply with sub–paragraph (2) in so far as is reasonably practicable in the 
circumstances. 
9.—(1) Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the undertaker must repay to a 
utility undertaker the reasonable expenses incurred by that utility undertaker in, or in connection 
with, the inspection, removal, alteration or protection of any apparatus or the construction of any 
new apparatus which may be required in consequence of the execution of any such works as are 
referred to in paragraph 6(2). 
(2) There is to be deducted from any sum payable under sub–paragraph (1) the value of any 
apparatus removed under the provisions of this part of this Schedule, that value being calculated 
after removal. 
(3) If in accordance with the provisions of this part of this Schedule— 
(a) apparatus of better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is placed in substitution 
for existing apparatus of worse type, of smaller capacity or of smaller dimensions; or 
(b) apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing apparatus) is 
placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing apparatus was, 
execution of the relocation works and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those 
dimensions or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed by the undertaker 
or, in default of agreement, is not determined by arbitration in accordance with article 43 (arbitration) 
to be necessary, then, if such placing involves cost in the construction of works under this part of this 
Schedule exceeding that which would have been involved if the apparatus placed had been of the 
existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at the existing depth, as the case may be, the amount which 
apart from this sub–paragraph would be payable to the utility undertaker in question by the virtue of 
sub–paragraph (1) is to be reduced by the amount of that excess. 
(4) For the purposes of sub–paragraph (3)— 
(a) an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing apparatus is not to be 
treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions than those of the existing apparatus 
where such extension is required in consequence of the execution of any such works as are 
referred to in paragraph 6(2); and 
(b) where the provision of a joint in a cable is agreed, or is determined to be necessary, the 
consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a manhole is to be treated as if it also had 
been agreed or had been so determined. 
(5) An amount which apart from this sub–paragraph would be payable to a utility undertaker in 
respect of works by virtue of sub–paragraph (1) if the works include the placing of apparatus 
provided in substitution for apparatus placed more than 7 years and 6 months earlier so as to 
confer on the utility undertaker any financial benefit by deferment of the time for renewal of the 
apparatus in the ordinary course, is to be reduced by the amount which represents that benefit. 
10.—(1) Subject to sub–paragraphs (2) and (3), if by reason or in consequence of the 
construction of any of the works referred to in paragraph 6(2), any damage is caused to any 
apparatus (other than apparatus the repair of which is not reasonably necessary in view of its 
intended removal for the purposes of those works) or property of a utility undertaker, or there is 
any interruption in any service provided, or in the supply of any goods, by any utility undertaker, 
the undertaker must— 
(a) bear and pay the cost reasonably incurred by that utility undertaker in making good such 
damage or restoring the supply; and 
(b) make reasonable compensation to that utility undertaker for any other expenses, loss, 
damages, penalty or costs incurred by the utility undertaker, 
by reason or in consequence of any such damage or interruption. 
(2) Nothing in sub–paragraph (1) imposes any liability on the undertaker with respect to any 
damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to the act, neglect or default of a utility 
undertaker, its officers, servants, contractors or agents. 
(3) A utility undertaker must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such claim or demand 
and no settlement or compromise is to be made without the consent of the undertaker which, if it 
 
 
167
withholds such consent, has the sole conduct of any settlement or compromise or of any 
proceedings necessary to resist the claim or demand. 
11. Nothing in this part of this Schedule affects the provisions of any enactment or agreement 
regulating the relations between the undertaker and a utility undertaking in respect of any 
apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to the undertaker on the date on which this Order is 
made. 
 
 
168
PART 2 
FOR THE PROTECTION OF OPERATORS OF ELECTRONIC 
COMMUNICATIONS CODE NETWORKS 
12.—(1) For the protection of any operator, the following provisions have effect, unless 
otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and the operator. 
(2) In this part of this Schedule— 
“the 2003 Act” means the Communications Act 2003(a); 
“electronic communications apparatus” has the same meaning as set out in paragraph 5 of the 
electronic communications code; 
“the electronic communications code” has the same meaning as set out in sections 106 to 119 
and Schedule 3A of the 2003 Act(b); 
“infrastructure system" has the same meaning as in the electronic communications code and 
references to providing an infrastructure system are to be construed in accordance with 
paragraph 7 of that code; 
“network” means— 
(a) so much of a network or infrastructure system provided by an operator as is not excluded 
from the application of the electronic communications code by a direction under section 
106(5) of the 2003 Act; and 
(b) a network which the Secretary of State is providing or proposing to provide; 
“operator” means a person in whose case the electronic communications code is applied by a 
direction under section 106 of the 2003 Act and who is an operator of a network. 
13. The exercise of the powers of article 31 (statutory undertakers) is subject to Part 10 of 
Schedule 3A of the 2003 Act. 
14.—(1) Subject to sub–paragraphs (2) to (4), if as the result of the authorised development or 
its construction, or of any subsidence resulting from any of those works— 
(a) any damage is caused to any electronic communications apparatus belonging to an operator 
(other than apparatus the repair of which is not reasonably necessary in view of its intended 
removal for the purposes of those works), or other property of an operator; or 
(b) there is any interruption in the supply of the service provided by an operator, 
the undertaker must bear and pay the cost reasonably incurred by the operator in making good 
such damage or restoring the supply and make reasonable compensation to that operator for 
any other expenses, loss, damages, penalty or costs incurred by it, by reason, or in 
consequence of, any such damage or interruption. 
(2) Nothing in sub–paragraph (1) imposes any liability on the undertaker with respect to any 
damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to the act, neglect or default of an 
operator, its officers, servants, contractors or agents. 
(3) The operator must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such claim or demand and no 
settlement or compromise of the claim or demand is to be made without the consent of the 
undertaker which, if it withholds such consent, has the sole conduct of any settlement or 
compromise or of any proceedings necessary to resist the claim or demand. 
(4) Any difference arising between the undertaker and the operator under this part of this 
Schedule must be referred to and settled by arbitration under article 43 (arbitration). 
15. This part of this Schedule does not apply to— 
                                                                                                                                       
(a) 2003 c.21 as amended by the Digital Economy Act 2017 (c.30) 
(b) added by Schedule 1 of the Digital Economy Act 2017 (c.30) 
 
 
169
(a) any apparatus in respect of which the relations between the undertaker and an operator are 
regulated by the provisions of Part 3 of the 1991 Act; or 
(b) any damage, or any interruption, caused by electro magnetic interference arising from the 
construction or use of the authorised development. 
16. Nothing in this part of this Schedule affects the provisions of any enactment or agreement 
regulating the relations between the undertaker and an operator in respect of any apparatus laid 
or erected in land belonging to the undertaker on the date on which this Order is made. 
 
 
170
PART 3 
FOR THE PROTECTION OF NATIONAL GRID 
Application 
17. For the protection of National Grid as referred to in this part 3 of Schedule 11 the following 
provisions shall, unless otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and National Grid, 
have effect. 
Interpretation 
18. In this Part of this Schedule— 
“alternative apparatus” means appropriate alternative apparatus to the satisfaction of National Grid 
to enable National Grid to fulfil its statutory functions in a manner no less efficient than 
previously; 
“apparatus” means— 
(a) electric lines or electrical plant as defined in the Electricity Act 1989(a), belonging to or 
maintained by National Grid; 
(b) mains, pipes or other apparatus belonging to or maintained by National Grid for the purposes 
of gas supply; 
“authorised development” has the same meaning as in article 2 (interpretation) of this Order and 
(unless otherwise specified) for the purposes of this Schedule shall include the use and 
maintenance of the authorised development; 
“functions” includes powers and duties; 
“ground mitigation scheme” means a scheme approved by National Grid (such approval not to be 
unreasonably withheld or delayed) setting out the necessary measures (if any) for a ground 
subsidence event; 
“ground monitoring scheme” means a scheme for monitoring ground subsidence which sets out 
the apparatus which is to be subject to such monitoring, the extent of land to be monitored, the 
manner in which ground levels are to be monitored, the timescales of any monitoring activities 
and the extent of ground subsidence which, if exceeded, shall require the promoter to submit for 
the undertaker’s approval a ground mitigation scheme; 
“ground subsidence event” means any ground subsidence identified by the monitoring activities 
set out in the ground monitoring scheme that has exceeded the level described in the ground 
monitoring scheme as requiring a ground mitigation scheme; 
“in” in a context referring to apparatus or alternative apparatus in land includes a reference to 
apparatus or alternative apparatus under, over, across, along or upon such land; 
“plan” or “plans” include all designs, drawings, specifications, method statements, soil reports, 
programmes, calculations, risk assessments and other documents that are reasonably necessary 
properly and sufficiently to describe and assess the works to be executed; 
19. Except for paragraphs 20 (apparatus in streets subject to temporary prohibition or 
restriction), 24 (retained apparatus: protection), 25 (retained apparatus: protection), 26 (expenses) 
and 27 (indemnity) this Schedule does not apply to apparatus in respect of which the relations 
                                                                                                                                       
(a) 1989 c.29. 
 
 
171
between the undertaker and National Grid are regulated by the provisions of Part 3 of the 1991 
Act. 
Apparatus of National Grid in streets subject to temporary prohibition or restriction 
20.—(1) Without prejudice to the generality of any other protection afforded to National Grid 
elsewhere in the Order, where any street is stopped up under article 12 (stopping up of streets), if 
National Grid has any apparatus in the street or accessed via that street National Grid will be 
entitled to the same rights in respect of such apparatus as it enjoyed immediately before the 
stopping up and the promoter will grant to National Grid, or will procure the granting to the 
National Grid of, legal easements reasonably satisfactory to the specified undertaker in respect of 
such apparatus and access to it prior to the stopping up of any such street or highway. 
(2) Notwithstanding the temporary prohibition or restriction under the powers of article 11 
(temporary prohibition or restriction of use of streets), National Grid shall be at liberty at all times 
to take all necessary access across any such street and/or to execute and do all such works and 
things in, upon or under any such street as may be reasonably necessary or desirable to enable it to 
maintain any apparatus which at the time of the prohibition or restriction was in that street. 
Acquisition of land 
21.—(1) Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on the land plans or 
contained in the book of reference to the Order the undertaker must not acquire any land interest 
or apparatus or override any easement or other interest of National Grid otherwise than by 
agreement (such agreement not to be unreasonably withheld). 
(2) The undertaker and National Grid agree that where there is any inconsistency or duplication 
between the provisions set out in this Schedule relating to the relocation and/or removal of 
apparatus (including but not limited to the payment of costs and expenses relating to such 
relocation and/or removal of apparatus) and the provisions of any existing easement, rights, 
agreements and licences granted, used, enjoyed or exercised by National Grid as of right or other 
use in relation to the apparatus then the provisions in this Schedule shall prevail. 
(3) Any agreement or consent granted by National Grid under paragraph 24 or any other 
paragraph of this Part of this Schedule, shall not be taken to constitute agreement under sub–
paragraph (1). 
Removal of apparatus 
22.—(1) If, in the exercise of the agreement reached in accordance with paragraph 21 or in any 
other authorised manner, the undertaker acquires any interest in any land in which any apparatus 
is placed, that apparatus must not be removed under this part of this Schedule and any right of 
National Grid to maintain that apparatus in that land shall not be extinguished until alternative 
apparatus has been constructed, and is in operation to the reasonable satisfaction of National Grid 
in accordance with sub–paragraphs (2) to (5) inclusive. 
(2) If, for the purpose of executing any works comprised in the authorised development in, on, 
under or over any land purchased, held, appropriated or used under this Order, the undertaker 
requires the removal of any apparatus placed in that land, it must give to National Grid 56 days’ 
advance written notice of that requirement, together with a plan of the work proposed, and of the 
proposed position of the alternative apparatus to be provided or constructed and in that case (or if 
in consequence of the exercise of any of the powers conferred by this Order National Grid 
reasonably needs to remove any of its apparatus) the undertaker shall, subject to sub–paragraph 
(3), afford to National Grid to their satisfaction (taking into account paragraph 23(1) below) the 
necessary facilities and rights for— 
(a) the construction of alternative apparatus in other land of the undertaker; and 
(b) subsequently for the maintenance of that apparatus. 
(3) If alternative apparatus or any part of such apparatus is to be constructed elsewhere than in 
other land of the undertaker, or the undertaker is unable to afford such facilities and rights as are 
 
 
172
mentioned in sub–paragraph (2), in the land in which the alternative apparatus or part of such 
apparatus is to be constructed, National Grid must, on receipt of a written notice to that effect from 
the undertaker, take such steps as are reasonable in the circumstances in an endeavour to obtain 
the necessary facilities and rights in the land in which the alternative apparatus is to be constructed 
save that this obligation shall not extend to the requirement for National Grid to use its 
compulsory purchase powers to this end unless it elects to so do. 
(4) Any alternative apparatus to be constructed in land of the undertaker under this part of this 
Schedule shall be constructed in such manner and in such line or situation as may be agreed 
between National Grid and the undertaker. 
(5) National Grid must, after the alternative apparatus to be provided or constructed has been 
agreed, and subject to the grant to National Grid of any such facilities and rights as are referred to 
in sub–paragraph (2) or (3), proceed without unnecessary delay to construct and bring into 
operation the alternative apparatus and subsequently to remove any apparatus required by the 
undertaker to be removed under the provisions of this part of this Schedule. 
Facilities and rights for alternative apparatus 
23.—(1) Where, in accordance with the provisions of this part of this Schedule, the undertaker 
affords to National Grid facilities and rights for the construction and maintenance in land of the 
undertaker of alternative apparatus in substitution for apparatus to be removed, those facilities 
and rights shall be granted upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed between the 
undertaker and National Grid and must be no less favourable on the whole to National Grid than 
the facilities and rights enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be removed unless agreed by 
National Grid. 
(2) If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the undertaker and agreed with National Grid 
under sub–paragraph (1) above in respect of any alternative apparatus, and the terms and 
conditions subject to which those facilities and rights are to be granted, are less favourable on the 
whole to National Grid than the facilities and rights enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be 
removed and the terms and conditions to which those facilities and rights are subject in the matter 
shall be referred to arbitration under paragraph 31 and, the arbitrator shall make such provision for 
the payment of compensation by the undertaker to National Grid as appears to the arbitrator to be 
reasonable having regard to all the circumstances of the particular case. In respect of the 
appointment of an arbitrator under this sub–paragraph (2), article 43 (arbitration) of the Order 
shall apply. 
Retained apparatus: protection of National Grid as Gas Undertaker 
24.—(1) Not less than 56 days before the commencement of any authorised development 
authorised by this Order that involves activities or works specified in National Grid’s 
“Specification for safe working in the vicinity of National Grid, High pressure Gas pipelines and 
associated installation requirements for third parties T/SP/SSW22” that are within the 
proximities described therein to any apparatus the removal of which has not been required by the 
undertaker under paragraph 22(2) or otherwise, the undertaker must submit to National Grid a 
plan. 
(2) In relation to works which will be situated on, over, under or within 15 metres measured in 
any direction of any apparatus to which sub–paragraph (1) applies, or (wherever situated) impose 
any load directly upon any such apparatus or involve embankment works within 15 metres of any 
such apparatus, the plan to be submitted to National Grid under sub–paragraph (1) shall show— 
(a) the exact position of the works; 
(b) the level at which these are proposed to be constructed or renewed; 
(c) the manner of their construction or renewal including details of excavation, positioning of 
plant etc.; 
(d) the position of all apparatus; 
 
 
173
(e) by way of detailed drawings, every alteration proposed to be made to or close to any such 
apparatus; 
(f) intended maintenance regimes; and 
(g) details of any ground monitoring scheme (if required in accordance with National Grid’s 
“Specification for safe working in the vicinity of National Grid, High pressure Gas pipelines 
and associated installation requirements for third parties T/SP/SSW22”.) 
(3) The undertaker must not commence any works to which sub–paragraph (1) and (2) applies 
until National Grid has given written approval of the plan so submitted. 
(4) Any approval of National Grid required under sub–paragraph (3)— 
(a) may be given subject to reasonable conditions for any purpose mentioned in sub–paragraph 
(5) or (7); 
(b) must not be unreasonably withheld. 
(5) In relation to a work to which sub–paragraphs (1) and (2) applies, National Grid may require 
such modifications to be made to the plans as may be reasonably necessary for the purpose of 
securing its system against interference or risk of damage or for the purpose of providing or 
securing proper and convenient means of access to any apparatus. 
(6) Works executed under sub–paragraphs (1) or (2) shall be executed only in accordance with 
the plan, submitted under sub–paragraph (1) and (2) or as relevant sub–paragraph (4), as amended 
from time to time by agreement between the undertaker and National Grid and in accordance with 
such reasonable requirements as may be made in accordance with sub–paragraphs (5), (7) and/or 
(8) by National Grid for the alteration or otherwise for the protection of the apparatus, or for 
securing access to it, and National Grid shall be entitled to watch and inspect the execution of 
those works. 
(7) Where National Grid requires protective works to be carried out either themselves or by the 
undertaker (whether of a temporary or permanent nature) such protective works shall be carried 
out to National Grid’s satisfaction prior to the commencement of any authorised development (or 
any relevant part thereof) to which sub–paragraph (1) applies and National Grid must give 56 
days’ notice of such works from the date of submission of a plan in line with sub–paragraph (1) or 
(2) (except in an emergency). 
(8) If National Grid in accordance with sub–paragraph (5) or (7) and in consequence of the 
works proposed by the undertaker, reasonably requires the removal of any apparatus and gives 
written notice to the undertaker of that requirement, paragraphs (1) to (3) and (6) to (7) shall apply 
as if the removal of the apparatus had been required by the undertaker under paragraph 22(2). 
(9) Nothing in this paragraph shall preclude the undertaker from submitting at any time or from 
time to time, but in no case less than 56 days before commencing the execution of any works 
comprising the authorised development, a new plan, instead of the plan previously submitted, and 
having done so the provisions of this paragraph shall apply to and in respect of the new plan. 
(10) The undertaker shall not be required to comply with sub–paragraph (1) where it needs to 
carry out emergency works as defined in the 1991 Act but in that case it must give to National 
Grid notice as soon as is reasonably practicable and a plan of those works and shall— 
(a) comply with sub–paragraph (5), (6) and (7) insofar as is reasonably practicable in the 
circumstances; and 
(b) comply with sub–paragraph (11) at all times. 
(11) At all times when carrying out any works authorised under the Order comply with National 
Grid’s policies for safe working in proximity to gas apparatus “Specification for safe working in 
the vicinity of National Grid, High pressure Gas pipelines and associated installation requirements 
for third parties T/SP/SSW22” and the Health and Safety Executive’s “HS(~G)47 Avoiding 
Danger from underground services”. 
(12) As soon as reasonably practicable after any ground subsidence event attributable to the 
authorised development the undertaker shall implement an appropriate ground mitigation scheme 
save that National Grid retains the right to carry out any further necessary protective works for the 
safeguarding of its apparatus and can recover any such costs in line with paragraph 26. 
 
 
174
(13) The plans submitted to National Grid by the undertaker pursuant to paragraph (1) and/or 
paragraph 25(1) must be sent to [NAME] at [EMAIL ADDRESS] or such other address as 
National Grid may from time to time appoint instead for that purpose and notify to the undertaker 
in writing. 
Retained apparatus: protection of National Grid as Electricity Undertaker 
25.—(1) Not less than 56 days before the commencement of any authorised development under 
this Order that is near to, or will or may affect, any apparatus the removal of which has not been 
required by the undertaker under paragraph 22(2) or otherwise and to which sub–paragraph 
(2)(a) or (2)(b) applies, the undertaker must submit to National Grid a plan and seek from 
National Grid details of the underground extent of their electricity tower foundations. 
(2) In relation to works which will or may be situated on, over, under or within (i) 15 metres 
measured in any direction of any apparatus, or (ii) involve embankment works within 15 metres of 
any apparatus, the plan to be submitted under sub–paragraph (1) shall show— 
(a) the exact position of the works; 
(b) the level at which these are proposed to be constructed or renewed; 
(c) the manner of their construction or renewal including details of excavation, positioning of 
plant; 
(d) the position of all apparatus; 
(e) by way of detailed drawings, every alteration proposed to be made to or close to any such 
apparatus; 
(f) any intended maintenance regimes; and 
(g) an assessment of risks of rise of earth issues. 
(3) In relation to any works which will or may be situated on, over, under or within 10 metres of 
any part of the foundations of an electricity tower or between any two or more electricity towers, 
the plan to be submitted under sub–paragraph (1) shall be detailed including a method statement 
and describing in addition to the matters set out in sub–paragraph (2)— 
(a) details of any cable trench design including route, dimensions, clearance to pylon 
foundations; 
(b) demonstration that pylon foundations will not be affected prior to, during and post 
construction; 
(c) details of load bearing capacities of trenches; 
(d) details of cable installation methodology including access arrangements, jointing bays and 
backfill methodology; 
(e) a written management plan for high voltage hazard during construction and on–going 
maintenance of the cable route; 
(f) (written details of the operations and maintenance regime for the cable, including frequency 
and method of access; 
(g) assessment of earth rise potential if reasonably required by National Grid’s engineers; 
(h) evidence that trench bearing capacity is to be designed to 26 tonnes to take the weight of 
overhead line construction traffic. 
(4) The undertaker must not commence any works to which sub–paragraphs (1), (2) or (3) apply 
until National Grid has given written approval of the plan so submitted. 
(5) Any approval of National Grid required under sub–paragraph (1), (2) or (3)— 
(a) may be given subject to reasonable conditions for any purpose mentioned in sub–paragraph 
(6) or (8); 
(b) must not be unreasonably withheld. 
(6) In relation to a work to which sub–paragraphs (1), (2) or (3) apply, National Grid may 
require such modifications to be made to the plans as may be reasonably necessary for the purpose 
 
 
175
of securing its system against interference or risk of damage or for the purpose of providing or 
securing proper and convenient means of access to any apparatus. 
(7) Works executed under sub–paragraphs (1), (2) or (3) must be executed only in accordance 
with the plan, submitted under sub–paragraph (1) or as relevant sub–paragraphs (2), (3) or (6), as 
amended from time to time by agreement between the undertaker and National Grid and in 
accordance with such reasonable requirements as may be made in accordance with sub–
paragraphs (5), (6), (8) and/or (9) by National Grid for the alteration or otherwise for the 
protection of the apparatus, or for securing access to it, and National Grid shall be entitled to 
watch and inspect the execution of those works. 
(8) Where National Grid require any protective works to be carried out either themselves or by 
the undertaker (whether of a temporary or permanent nature) such protective works must be 
carried out to National Grid’s satisfaction prior to the commencement of any authorised 
development (or any relevant part thereof) to which sub–paragraph (1) applies and National Grid 
must give 56 days’ notice of such works from the date of submission of a plan in line with sub–
paragraphs (1), (2), (3) or (6) (except in an emergency). 
(9) If National Grid in accordance with sub–paragraph (6) or (8) and in consequence of the 
works proposed by the undertaker, reasonably requires the removal of any apparatus and gives 
written notice to the undertaker of that requirement, paragraphs (1) to (3) and (6) to (7) shall apply 
as if the removal of the apparatus had been required by the undertaker under paragraph 22(2). 
(10) Nothing in this paragraph shall preclude the undertaker from submitting at any time or from 
time to time, but in no case less than 56 days before commencing the execution of any works, a 
new plan, instead of the plan previously submitted, and having done so the provisions of this 
paragraph shall apply to and in respect of the new plan. 
(11) The undertaker shall not be required to comply with sub–paragraph (1) where it needs to 
carry out emergency works as defined in the 1991 Act but in that case it must give to National 
Grid notice as soon as is reasonably practicable and a plan of those works and shall— 
(a) comply with sub–paragraphs (6), (7) and (8) insofar as is reasonably practicable in the 
circumstances; and 
(b) comply with sub–paragraph (12) at all times. 
(12) At all times when carrying out any works authorised under the Order, the undertaker must 
comply with National Grid’s policies for development near over headlines ENA TA 43–8 and the 
Health and Safety Executive’s guidance note 6 “Avoidance of Danger from Overhead Lines”. 
Expenses 
26.—(1) Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the undertaker shall pay to 
National Grid on demand all charges, costs and expenses reasonably anticipated or incurred by 
National Grid in, or in connection with, the inspection, removal, relaying or replacing, alteration 
or protection of any apparatus or the construction of any new apparatus or alternative apparatus 
which may be required in consequence of the execution of any such works as are referred to in 
this Schedule including without limitation— 
(a) any costs reasonably incurred or compensation properly paid in connection with the 
acquisition of rights or the exercise of statutory powers for such apparatus including without 
limitation in the event that National Grid elects to use compulsory purchase powers to acquire 
any necessary rights under paragraph 22(3) all costs incurred as a result of such action; 
(b) in connection with the cost of the carrying out of any diversion work or the provision of any 
alternative apparatus; 
(c) the cutting off of any apparatus from any other apparatus or the making safe of redundant 
apparatus; 
(d) the approval of plans; 
(e) the carrying out of protective works, plus a capitalised sum to cover the cost of maintaining 
and renewing permanent protective works; 
 
 
176
(f) the survey of any land, apparatus or works, the inspection and monitoring of works or the 
installation or removal of any temporary works reasonably necessary in consequence of the 
execution of any such works referred to in this Schedule. 
(2) There must be deducted from any sum payable under sub–paragraph (1) the value of any 
apparatus removed under the provisions of this Schedule and which is not re–used as part of the 
alternative apparatus, that value being calculated after removal. 
(3) If in accordance with the provisions of this part of this Schedule— 
(a) apparatus of better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is placed in substitution 
for existing apparatus of worse type, of smaller capacity or of smaller dimensions; or 
(b) apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing apparatus) is 
placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing apparatus was situated, 
and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions or the placing of 
apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed by the undertaker or in default of 
agreement settled by arbitration in accordance with article 43 (arbitration) of the Order to be 
necessary, then, if such placing involves cost in the construction of works under this part of 
this Schedule exceeding that which would have been involved if the apparatus placed had 
been of the existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at the existing depth, as the case may be, 
the amount which apart from this sub–paragraph would be payable to National Grid by virtue 
of sub–paragraph (1) shall be reduced by the amount of that excess save where it is not 
possible in the circumstances to obtain the existing type of operations, capacity, dimensions or 
place at the existing depth in which case full costs shall be borne by the undertaker. 
 50 
may be, the amount which, apart from this paragraph, would be payable to the 
statutory utility by 
virtue of paragraph (3) shall be reduced by the amount of that excess. 
(4) (5) For the purposes of paragraph sub–paragraph (4)—3)— 
(a) an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing apparatus shall not be 
treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions than those of the existing apparatus; 
and 
(a) an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing apparatus 
shallnot be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions than those of the 
existing 
apparatus; and 
(b) (b) where the provision of a joint in a cable is agreed, or is determined to be necessary, 
thepipe or cable is agreed, or is determined to be necessary, the consequential provision of a 
jointing chamber or of a manhole shall be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so 
determined. 
(5) An amount which apart from this sub–paragraph would be payable to National Grid in 
respect of works by virtue of sub–paragraph (1) shall, if the works include the placing of apparatus 
provided in substitution for apparatus placed more than 7 years and 6 months earlier so as to 
confer on National Grid any financial benefit by deferment of the time for renewal of the 
apparatus in the ordinary course, be reduced by the amount which represents that benefit. 
Indemnity 
27.—(1) Subject to sub–paragraphs (2) and (3), if by reason or in consequence of the 
construction of any works authorised by this Schedule or in consequence of the construction, use, 
maintenance or failure of any of the authorised development by or on behalf of the undertaker or 
in consequence of any act or default of the undertaker (or any person employed or authorised by 
him) in the course of carrying out such works (including without limitation works carried out by 
the undertaker under this Schedule or any subsidence resulting from any of these works), any 
damage is caused to any apparatus or alternative apparatus (other than apparatus the repair of 
which is not reasonably necessary in view of its intended removal for the purposes of those 
 
 
177
works) or property of National Grid, or there is any interruption in any service provided, or in the 
supply of any goods, by National Grid, or National Grid becomes liable to pay any amount to 
any third party, the undertaker shall— 
(a) bear and pay on demand the cost reasonably incurred by National Grid in making good such 
damage or restoring the supply; and 
(b) indemnify National Grid for any other expenses, loss, demands, proceedings, damages, 
claims, penalty or costs incurred by or recovered from National Grid, by reason or in 
consequence of any such damage or interruption or National Grid becoming liable to any 
third party as aforesaid. 
(2) The fact that any act or thing may have been done by National Grid on behalf of the 
undertaker or in accordance with a plan approved by National Grid or in accordance with any 
requirement of National Grid as a consequence of the authorised development or under its 
supervision shall not (unless sub–paragraph (3) applies) excuse the undertaker from liability under 
the provisions of this sub–paragraph (1) where the undertaker fails to carry out and execute the 
works properly with due care and attention and in a skilful and workman like manner or in a 
manner that does not materially accord with the approved plan or as otherwise agreed between the 
undertaker and National Grid. 
(3) Nothing in sub–paragraph (1) shall impose any liability on the undertaker in respect of— 
(a) any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to the neglect or default of 
National Grid, its officers, servants, contractors or agents; and 
(b) any authorised development and/or any other works authorised by this Schedule carried out 
by National Grid as an assignee, transferee or lessee of the undertaker with the benefit of the 
Order pursuant to section 156 of the 2008 Act or under article 7 of the Order subject to the 
proviso that once such works become apparatus (“new apparatus”), any works yet to be 
executed and not falling within this sub–section (b) shall be subject to the full terms of this 
Schedule including this paragraph 27 in respect of such new apparatus. 
(4) National Grid must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such claim or demand and 
no settlement or compromise shall be made, unless payment is required in connection with a 
statutory compensation scheme without first consulting the undertaker and considering their 
representations. 
(5) National Grid must use its reasonable endeavours to mitigate in whole or in part and to 
minimise any costs, expenses, loss, demands, and penalties to which the indemnity under this 
paragraph 27 applies. If requested to do so by the undertaker, National Grid shall provide an 
explanation of how the claim has been minimised. The undertaker shall only be liable under this 
paragraph 27 for claims reasonably incurred by National Grid. 
Enactments and agreements 
28. Nothing in this part of this Schedule shall affect the provisions of any enactment or 
agreement regulating the relations between the undertaker and National Grid in respect of any 
apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to the undertaker on the date on which this Order is 
made. 
Co–operation 
29. National Grid and the undertaker must each use their best endeavours to co–ordinate with 
the other party on the timing and method of execution of any works carried out under the Order 
or this Schedule (including, for the avoidance of doubt, pursuant to paragraph 22(2) and 
paragraphs 24 or 28) in the interests of safety and the efficient and economic execution of the 
authorised development and taking into account the need to ensure the safe and efficient 
operation of the other party’s operations. 
 
 
178
Access 
30. If in consequence of the agreement reached in accordance with paragraph 21(1) or the 
powers granted under this Order the access to any apparatus is materially obstructed, the 
undertaker shall provide such alternative means of access to such apparatus as will enable 
National Grid to maintain or use the apparatus no less effectively than was possible before such 
obstruction. 
Arbitration 
31. Save for differences or disputes arising under paragraphs 22(2), 22(4), 23(1), 24 and 25 any 
difference or dispute arising between the undertaker and National Grid under this Schedule shall, 
unless otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and National Grid, be determined by 
arbitration in accordance with article 43 (arbitration) of the Order. 
 
 
179
PART 4 
FOR THE PROTECTION OF WESTERN POWER DISTRIBUTION LIMITED 
(SOUTH WALES) PLC 
Application 
32. For the protection of Western Power Distribution Limited (South Wales) plc as referred to 
in this Part 4 of Schedule 11 the following provisions, unless otherwise agreed in writing 
between the undertaker and Western Power Distribution Limited (South Wales) plc, have effect. 
Interpretation 
33. In this Part of this Schedule— 
“alternative apparatus” means alternative apparatus adequate to enable WPD to fulfil its statutory 
functions in a manner not less efficient than previously; 
“alternative rights” means all and any necessary legal easements, consents, or permissions 
required by WPD in order to permit or authorise a diversion; 
“apparatus" means electric lines or electrical plant as defined in the Electricity Act 1989, 
belonging to or maintained by WPD; 
“diversion” means an alteration to the WPD Network in order to enable or facilitate the authorised 
development; 
“WPD” means Western Power Distribution (South Wales) plc (company number 02366985) 
whose registered office is at Avonbank, Feeder Road, Bristol, BS2 0TB; 
“WPD Network” means WPD’s distribution network operated pursuant to its distribution licence 
issued pursuant to section 6 of the 1989 Act; and 
for the avoidance of doubt, all other terms as defined in article 2 (interpretation) of this Order. 
Precedence of 1991 Act in respect of apparatus in streets 
34. This Part of this Schedule does not apply to apparatus in respect of which the relations 
between the undertaker and WPD are regulated by the provisions of Part 3 of the 1991 Act. 
No acquisition or extinguishment except by agreement 
35. Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on the land plans, the 
undertaker must not acquire any apparatus otherwise than by agreement. 
Removal of apparatus 
36.—(1) If, in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order, the undertaker acquires any 
interest in any land in which any apparatus is placed, that apparatus must not be removed under 
this Part of this Schedule and any right of WPD to maintain that apparatus in that land must not 
be extinguished until alternative apparatus has been constructed and is in operation to the 
reasonable satisfaction of WPD. 
(2) If, for the purpose of executing any works in, on or under any land purchased, held, 
appropriated or used under this Order, the undertaker requires the removal of any apparatus placed 
in that land, it must give to WPD written notice of that requirement, together with a plan and 
section of the work proposed. 
(3) If alternative apparatus or any part of such apparatus is to be constructed as a consequence of 
the removal of apparatus placed on the land referred to in sub–paragraph (2), WPD must on 
receipt of a written notice to that effect from the undertaker, as soon as reasonably possible use its 
 
 
180
reasonable endeavours to obtain the alternative rights in other land in which the alternative 
apparatus is to be constructed. 
(4) WPD must, after the alternative apparatus to be provided or constructed has been agreed or 
settled by arbitration in accordance with article 43 (arbitration) of the Order and after the grant to 
WPD of any alternative rights, proceed without unnecessary delay to construct and bring into 
operation the alternative apparatus and subsequently to remove any apparatus required by the 
undertaker to be removed under the provisions of this Part of Schedule 11. 
37.—(1) Not less than 28 days before starting the execution of any works in, on or under any 
land purchased, held, appropriated or used under this Order that are within 3 metres of any 
apparatus, the removal of which has not been required by the undertaker under paragraph 36(2), 
the undertaker must submit to WPD a plan, section and description of the works to be executed. 
For the avoidance of doubt, if any works referred to require any diversion or require WPD to 
obtain any alternative rights, the undertaker must give WPD sufficient notice to obtain any such 
alternative rights and not commence works of the type described unless or until any such 
alternative rights have been obtained. 
(2) Those works must be executed only in accordance with the plan, section and description 
submitted under sub–paragraph (1) and in accordance with such reasonable requirements as may 
be made in accordance with sub–paragraph (3) by WPD for the alteration or otherwise for the 
protection of the apparatus, or for securing access to it. 
(3) Any requirements made by WPD under sub–paragraph (2) must be made within a reasonable 
period beginning with the date on which a plan, section and description under sub–paragraph (1) 
are submitted to it. 
(4) If WPD, in accordance with sub–paragraph (3) and in consequence of the works proposed by 
the undertaker, reasonably requires the removal of any apparatus and gives written notice to the 
undertaker of that requirement, paragraphs 32 to 36 apply as if the removal of the apparatus had 
been required by the undertaker under paragraph 36(2). 
(5) Nothing in this paragraph 37 precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time or from 
time to time, but in no case less than the reasonable period provided for in sub–paragraph (3) 
before commencing the execution of any works, a new plan, section and description instead of the 
plan, section and description previously submitted, and having done so the provisions of this 
paragraph apply to and in respect of the new plan, section and description. 
(6) The undertaker is not required to comply with sub–paragraph (1) in a case of emergency but 
in that case it must give to WPD notice as soon as is reasonably practicable and a plan, section and 
description of those works as soon as reasonably practicable subsequently and must comply with 
sub–paragraph (2) in so far as is reasonably practicable in the circumstances. 
Expenses and costs 
38.—(1) Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the undertaker must repay to 
WPD the proper and reasonable expenses reasonably incurred by WPD in, or in connection with, 
the inspection, removal, alteration or protection of any apparatus. 
(2) The value of any apparatus removed under the provisions of this Part of the Schedule is to be 
deducted from any sum payable under sub–paragraph (1), that value being calculated after 
removal. 
(3) If in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule— 
consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a manhole shall be treated as if it 
also had been agreed or had been so determined. 
(6) An amount which, apart from this paragraph, would be payable to a statutory 
utility in 
respect of works by virtue of paragraph (3) (and having regard, where relevant, to 
paragraph (4)) 
shall, if the works include the placing of apparatus provided in substitution for 
apparatus placed 
 
 
181
more than 7 years and 6 months earlier so as to confer on the utility any financial 
benefit by 
deferment of the time for renewal of the apparatus in the ordinary course, be reduced 
by the 
amount which represents that benefit. 
(7) Paragraphs (3) to (6) shall not apply where the authorised project constitutes major 
highway 
works, major bridge works or major transport works for the purposes of Part 3 of the 
1991 Act, 
but instead— 
(a) the allowable costs of the relocation works shall be determined in accordance with 
section 
85 of that Act (sharing of cost of necessary measures) and any regulations for the time 
being having effect under that section; and 
(b) the allowable costs shall be borne by the undertaker and the statutory utility in 
such 
proportions as may be prescribed by any such regulations. 
(8) In this article— 
“apparatus” has the same meaning as in Part 3 of the 1991 Act; 
“relocation works” means work executed, or apparatus provided, under paragraph (2); 
and 
“statutory utility” means a statutory undertaker for the purposes of the 1980 Act or a 
public 
communications provider as defined in section 151(1) of the Communications Act 
2003(a). 
Recovery of costs of new connections 
40.—(1) Where any apparatus of a public utility undertaker or of a public 
communications 
provider is removed under article 38 (statutory undertakers) any person who is the 
owner or 
occupier of premises to which a supply was given from that apparatus shall be entitled 
to recover 
from the undertaker compensation in respect of expenditure reasonably incurred by 
that person, in 
consequence of the removal, for the purpose of effecting a connection between the 
premises and 
any other apparatus from which a supply is given. 
(2) Paragraph (1) shall not apply in the case of the removal of a public sewer but 
where such a 
sewer is removed under article 38, any person who is— 
(a) the owner or occupier of premises the drains of which communicated with that 
sewer; or 
(b) the owner of a private sewer which communicated with that sewer, 
shall be entitled to recover from the undertaker compensation in respect of 
expenditure reasonably 
incurred by that person, in consequence of the removal, for the purpose of making the 
drain or 
sewer belonging to that person communicate with any other public sewer or with a 
private 
sewerage disposal plant. 
 
 
182
(3) This article shall not have effect in relation to apparatus to which article 39 
(apparatus and 
rights of statutory undertakers in stopped-up streets) or Part 3 of the 1991 Act applies. 
(4) In this paragraph— 
(a) 2003 c.21. There are amendments to this Act which are not relevant to this Order.  
 51 
““public communications provider” has the same meaning as in section 151(1) of the 
Communications Act 2003; and 
“public utility undertaker” has the same meaning as in the 1980 Act. 
Operations 
Operation and use of railways 
41.—(1) The undertaker may operate and use the railway and any other elements of 
the 
authorised project as a system, or part of a system, of transport for the carriage of 
passengers and 
goods. 
(2) Nothing in this Order, or in any enactment incorporated with or applied by this 
Order, shall 
prejudice or affect the operation of Part 1 of the Railways Act 1993(a) (the provision 
of railway 
services). 
Fares 
42. The undertaker may demand, take and recover or waive such charges for carrying 
passengers 
or goods on the railway comprised in the authorised project, or for any other services 
or facilities 
provided in connection with the operation of that railway, as it thinks fit. 
Deemed consent under section 34 of the Coast Protection Act 1949 
43. The undertaker is granted deemed consent under section 34 of the Coast 
Protection Act 
1949(b) to carry out the works described in Schedule H, subject to the requirements 
set out in that 
Schedule. 
Deemed licence under Part 2 of the Food and Environment Protection Act 1985 
44. The undertaker is granted a deemed licence under Part 2 of the Food and 
Environment 
Protection Act 1985(c) to carry out the works described in Schedule I, subject to the 
requirements 
set out in that Schedule. 
Felling or lopping of trees 
45.—(1) The undertaker may fell or lop any tree or shrub near any part of the 
authorised project, 
or cut back its roots, if it reasonably believes it to be necessary to do so to prevent the 
tree or 
shrub— 
(a) from obstructing or interfering with the construction, maintenance or operation of 
the 
authorised project or any apparatus used in connection with the authorised project; or 
(b) from constituting a danger to passengers or other persons using the authorised 
project. 
 
 
183
(2) In carrying out any activity authorised by paragraph (1), the undertaker shall do no 
unnecessary damage to any tree or shrub and shall pay compensation to any person 
for any loss or 
damage arising from such activity. 
(3) Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (2), or 
as to the 
amount of compensation, shall be determined under Part 1 of the 1961 Act. 
(a) 1993 c.43. This Act has been amended by the Transport Act 2000 (c. 38), the 
Railways and Transport Safety Act 2003 
(c.20) and the Railways Act 2005 (c.14). There are other amendments to this Act 
which are not relevant to this Order. 
(b) 1949 c.74. Section 34 has been amended by section 36 of the Merchant Shipping 
Act 1988 (c.12). There are other 
amendments to the 1949 Act which are not relevant to this Order. 
(c) 1985 c.48. Sections 5 and 6 in Part 2 have been amended by sections 146(2) and 
162 of, and Part 8 of Schedule 16 to, the 
Environmental Protection Act 1990 (c. 43). There are other amendments to the 1985 
Act which are not relevant to this 
Order.  
 52 
Trees subject to tree preservation orders 
46.—(1) The undertaker may fell or lop any tree described in Schedule J and 
identified on the 
[insert name] plan, or cut back its roots if it reasonably believes it to be necessary in 
order to do so 
to prevent the tree or shrub— 
(a) from obstructing or interfering with the construction, maintenance or operation of 
the 
authorised project or any apparatus used in connection with the authorised project; or 
(b) from constituting a danger to passengers or other persons using the authorised 
project. 
(2) In carrying out any activity authorised by paragraph (1)— 
(a) the undertaker shall do no unnecessary damage to any tree or shrub and shall pay 
compensation to any person for any loss or damage arising from such activity; and 
(b) the duty contained in section 206(1) of the 1990 Act (replacement of trees) shall 
not 
apply. 
(3) The authority given by paragraph (1) shall constitute a deemed consent under the 
relevant 
tree preservation order. 
(4) Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (2), or 
as to the 
amount of compensation, shall be determined under Part 1 of the 1961 Act. 
Miscellaneous and general 
Application of landlord and tenant law 
47.—(1) This article applies to— 
(a) any agreement for leasing to any person the whole or any part of the authorised 
project or 
the right to operate the same; and 
(b) any agreement entered into by the undertaker with any person for the construction, 
 
 
184
maintenance, use or operation of the authorised project, or any part of it, 
so far as any such agreement relates to the terms on which any land which is the 
subject of a lease 
granted by or under that agreement is to be provided for that person’s use. 
(2) No enactment or rule of law regulating the rights and obligations of landlords and 
tenants 
shall prejudice the operation of any agreement to which this article applies. 
(3) Accordingly, no such enactment or rule of law shall apply in relation to the rights 
and 
obligations of the parties to any lease granted by or under any such agreement so as 
to— 
(a) exclude or in any respect modify any of the rights and obligations of those parties 
under 
the terms of the lease, whether with respect to the termination of the tenancy or any 
other 
matter; 
(b) confer or impose on any such party any right or obligation arising out of or 
connected 
with anything done or omitted on or in relation to land which is the subject of the 
lease, in 
addition to any such right or obligation provided for by the terms of the lease; or 
(c) restrict the enforcement (whether by action for damages or otherwise) by any party 
to the 
lease of any obligation of any other party under the lease. 
Operational land for purposes of the 1990 Act 
48. Development consent granted by this Order shall be treated as specific planning 
permission 
for the purposes of section 264(3)(a) of the 1990 Act (cases in which land is to be 
treated as 
operational land for the purposes of that Act).  
 53 
Defence to proceedings in respect of statutory nuisance 
49.—(1) Where proceedings are brought under section 82(1) of the Environmental 
Protection 
Act 1990(a) (summary proceedings by person aggrieved by statutory nuisance) in 
relation to a 
nuisance falling within paragraph (g) of section 79(1) of that Act (noise emitted from 
premises so 
as to be prejudicial to health or a nuisance) no order shall be made, and no fine may 
be imposed, 
under section 82(2) of that Act if— 
(a) the defendant shows that the nuisance— 
(i) relates to premises used by the undertaker for the purposes of or in connection with 
the construction or maintenance of the authorised project and that the nuisance is 
attributable to the carrying out of the authorised project in accordance with a notice 
served under section 60 (control of noise on construction site), or a consent given 
under section 61 (prior consent for work on construction site) or 65 (noise exceeding 
registered level), of the Control of Pollution Act 1974(b); or 
(ii) is a consequence of the construction or maintenance of the authorised project and 
that it cannot reasonably be avoided; or 
 
 
185
(b) the defendant shows that the nuisance— 
(i) relates to premises used by the undertaker for the purposes of or in connection with 
the use of the authorised project and that the nuisance is attributable to the use of the 
authorised project which is being used in accordance with a scheme of monitoring 
and attenuation of noise agreed with the Commission as described in requirement 25; 
or 
(ii) is a consequence of the use of the authorised project and that it cannot reasonably 
be 
avoided. 
(2) Section 61(9) (consent for work on construction site to include statement that it 
does not of 
itself constitute a defence to proceedings under section 82 of the Environmental 
Protection Act 
1990) of the Control of Pollution Act 1974 and section 65(8) of that Act 
(corresponding provision 
in relation to consent for registered noise level to be exceeded), shall not apply where 
the consent 
relates to the use of premises by the undertaker for the purposes of or in connection 
with the 
construction or maintenance of the authorised project. 
Protections of Interests 
50. Schedule L to this Order has effect. 
Certification of plans etc 
51.—(1) The undertaker shall, as soon as practicable after the making of this Order, 
submit to 
the decision-maker copies of— 
(a) the book of reference; 
(b) the land plan; 
(c) the rights plan; 
(d) the works plan; 
(e) the sections; and 
(f) any other plans or documents referred to in this Order, 
for certification that they are true copies of the documents referred to in this Order. 
(2) A plan or document so certified shall be admissible in any proceedings as 
evidence of the 
contents of the document of which it is a copy. 
(a) 1990 c.43. There are amendments to this Act which are not relevant to this Order. 
(b) 1974 c.40. Sections 61(9) and 65(8) were amended by section 162 of, and 
paragraph 15 of Schedule 3 to, the 
Environmental Protection Act 1990, c.25. There are other amendments to the 1974 
Act which are not relevant to this Order.  
 54 
Arbitration 
52. Any difference under any provision of this Order, unless otherwise provided for, 
shall be 
referred to and settled by a single arbitrator to be agreed between the parties or, failing 
agreement, 
to be appointed on the application of either party (after giving notice in writing to the 
other) by the 
[insert appropriate body]. 
 
 
186
Schedule A 
AUTHORISED PROJECT 
Part 1 
AUTHORISED DEVELOPMENT 
[NOTE: This Part should describe as fully as possible the elements of the proposed 
project 
(including any associated development), which are development for the purposes of 
section 32 of 
the 2008 Act, for which development consent is sought. It should not include any 
elements of 
development which would be authorised by specific provisions in the Order.] 
Part 2 
ANCILLARY WORKS 
[NOTE: This Part should describe as fully as possible the ancillary works for which 
consent is 
sought and which are not development within the meaning of section 32 of the 2008 
Act and which 
are not be the subject of a separate provision [article] in this Order.] 
Schedule B 
STREETS SUBJECT TO STREET WORKS 
(1) (2) 
Area Street subject to street works 
Schedule C 
STREETS TO BE STOPPED UP 
Part 1 
STREETS FOR WHICH A SUBSTITUTE IS TO BE PROVIDED 
(1) (2) (3) (4) 
Area Street to be stopped 
up 
Extent of stopping up New street to be 
substituted 
Part 2 
STREETS FOR WHICH NO SUBSTITUTE IS TO BE PROVIDED 
(1) (2) (3) 
Area Street to be stopped up Extent of stopping up  
 55 
Schedule D 
STREETS TO BE TEMPORARILY STOPPED UP 
(1) (2) (3) 
Area Street to be temporarily 
stopped up 
Extent of temporary stopping 
up 
Schedule E 
ACCESS TO WORKS 
(1) (2) 
Area Description of access 
Schedule F 
LAND OF WHICH ONLY SUBSOIL MORE THAN 9 METRES BENEATH 
SURFACE MAY BE ACQUIRED 
 
 
187
(1) (2) 
Area Number of land shown on land plan 
Schedule G 
LAND OF WHICH TEMPORARY POSSESSION MAY BE TAKEN 
(1) (2) (3) (4) 
Area Number of land shown 
on land plan 
Purpose for which 
temporary possession 
may be taken 
Relevant part of the 
Authorised project 
Schedule H 
DEEMED CONSENT UNDER COAST PROTECTION ACT 1949 
[Insert details of deemed consent] 
Schedule I 
DEEMED LICENCE UNDER THE FOOD AND ENVIRONMENT PROTECTIONI 
ACT 1985 
[Insert details of deemed licence]  
 56 
Schedule J 
TREES SUBJECT TO TREE PRESERVATION ORDERS 
(1) (2) (3) 
Type of tree Number[reference] of tree 
shown on land plan 
Work to be carried out 
Schedule K 
LEVEL CROSSINGS 
[Insert details of level crossings] 
Schedule L 
PROTECTIVE PROVISIONS 
[Insert details of protective provisions] 
 SCHEDULE 3 Article 2 
Model provisions for harbours 
CONTENTS 
Preliminary 
1. Interpretation 
2. Incorporation of the Harbours, Docks and Piers Clauses Act 1847 
Principal powers 
3. Development consent etc. granted by the Order 
4. Period for completion of work 
5. Limits of harbour 
6. Maintenance of authorised project 
7. Subsidiary works 
8. Benefit of Order 
9. Consent to transfer benefit of Order 
Streets 
10. Street works 
11. Stopping up of streets 
12. Temporary stopping up of streets 
 
 
188
13. Access to works 
14. Agreements with street authorities 
15. Public rights of way  
 57 
Supplemental powers 
16. Discharge of water 
17. Protective work to buildings 
18. Authority to survey and investigate the land 
19. Removal of human remains 
20. Right to dredge 
21. Tidal works not to be executed without approval of Secretary of State 
22. Abatement of works abandoned or decayed 
23. Survey of tidal works 
24. Lights on tidal works etc. during construction 
25. Provision against danger to navigation 
26. Permanent lights on tidal works 
27. Rights to lease etc. 
Powers of acquisition 
28. Compulsory acquisition of land 
29. Compulsory acquisition of land – incorporation of the mineral code 
30. Time limit for exercise of authority to acquire land compulsorily 
31. Compulsory acquisition of rights 
32. Private rights of way 
33. Application of the Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act 1981 
34. Acquisition of subsoil only 
35. Acquisition of land limited to subsoil lying more than 9 metres beneath surface 
36. Acquisition of part of certain properties 
37. Rights under or over streets 
38. Temporary use of land for carrying out the authorised project 
39. Temporary use of land for maintaining authorised project 
40. Special category land 
41. Statutory undertakers 
42. Apparatus and rights of statutory undertakers in stopped up streets 
43. Recovery of costs of new connections 
Miscellaneous and general 
44. Deemed consent under section 34 of the Coast Protection Act 1949 
45. Deemed licence under Part 2 of the Food and Environment Protection Act 1985 
46. Felling or lopping of trees 
47. Trees subject to tree preservation orders 
48. Railway and navigation undertakings 
49. Application of landlord and tenant law 
50. Operational land for purposes of the 1990 Act 
51. Defence to proceedings in respect of statutory nuisance 
52. Protection of interests 
53. Saving for Trinity House 
54. Disapplication of regulation 60 of the Conservation (Natural Habitats, &c.) 
Regulations 1994 
55. Planning, etc. jurisdiction  
 58 
56. Certification of plans etc 
 
 
189
57. Arbitration 
Schedule A 
AUTHORISED PROJECT 
Part 1 
AUTHORISED DEVELOPMENT 
Part 2 
ANCILLARY WORKS 
Schedule B 
STREETS SUBJECT TO STREET WORKS 
Schedule C 
STREETS TO BE STOPPED UP 
Part 1 
STREETS FOR WHICH A SUBSTITUTE IS TO BE PROVIDED 
Part 2 
STREETS FOR WHICH NO SUBSTITUTE IS TO BE PROVIDED 
Schedule D 
STREETS TO BE TEMPORARILY STOPPED UP 
Schedule E 
ACCESS TO WORKS 
Schedule F 
LAND OF WHICH ONLY SUBSOIL MORE THAN 9 METRES BENEATH 
SURFACE 
MAY BE ACQUIRED 
Schedule G 
LAND OF WHICH TEMPORARY POSSESSION MAY BE TAKEN 
Schedule H 
DEEMED CONSENT UNDER COAST PROTECTION ACT 1949 
Schedule I 
DEEMED LICENCE UNDER THE FOOD AND ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION 
ACT 
1985 
Schedule J 
TREES SUBJECT TO TREE PRESERVATION ORDERS 
Schedule K 
LIMITS OF HARBOUR  
 59 
Schedule L 
PROTECTIVE PROVISIONS 
Preliminary 
Interpretation 
1.—(1) In this Order— 
“the 1847 Act” means the Harbours, Docks and Piers Clauses Act 1847(a); 
“the 1961 Act” means the Land Compensation Act 1961(b); 
“the 1965 Act” means the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965(c); 
“the 1980 Act” means the Highways Act 1980(d); 
“the 1990 Act” means the Town and Country Planning Act 1990(e); 
“the 1991 Act” means the New Roads and Street Works Act 1991(f); 
“the 2008 Act” means the Planning Act 2008(g); 
“ancillary works” means the ancillary works described in Part 2 of Schedule A 
(authorised 
 
 
190
project) [and any other works authorised by the Order] and which are not 
development within 
the meaning of section 32 of the 2008 Act; 
“area of seaward construction activity” means the area of the sea within the Order 
limits 
shown on the land plan; 
(a) 1847 c.27. Sections 24, 94 and 95 were repealed by the Statute Law (Repeals) Act 
1993 (c.50); section 26 was repealed by 
section 56(4) of, and Schedule 11 to, the Courts Act 1971 (c.23); section 28 was 
amended by section 141of, and Schedule 
11 to, the Post Office Act 1969 (c.48); sections 54, 67 and 98 were amended by 
section 46 of the Criminal Justice Act 1982 
(c.48); section 71 was amended by S.I.1987/37; section 91 was repealed by the Statute 
Law Revision Act 1894 (c.56); 
section 93 was repealed by the Statute Law Revision Act 1875 (c.66); and section 96 
was repealed by the Perjury Act 1911 
(c.6), section 17. There are other amendments to the 1847 Act which are not relevant 
to this Order. 
(b) 1961 c.33. Section 2(2) was amended by section 193 of, and paragraph 5 of 
Schedule 33 to, the Local Government, 
Planning and Land Act 1980 (c.65). There are other amendments to the 1961 Act 
which are not relevant to this Order. 
(c) 1965 c.56. Section 3 was amended by section 70 of, and paragraph 3 of Schedule 
15 to, the Planning and Compensation 
Act 1991(c.34). Section 4 was amended by section 3 of, and Part 1 of Schedule 1 to, 
the Housing (Consequential 
Provisions) Act 1985 (c.71). Section 5 was amended by sections 67 and 80 of, and 
Part 2 of Schedule 18 to, the Planning 
and Compensation Act 1991 (c.34). Subsection (1) of section 11 and sections 3, 31 
and 32 were amended by section 34(1) 
of, and Schedule 4 to, the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 (c.67) and by section 14 of, 
and paragraph 12(1) of Schedule 5 to, 
the Church of England (Miscellaneous Provisions) Measure 2006 (2006 No.1). 
Section 12 was amended by section 56(2) 
of, and Part 1 to Schedule 9 to, the Courts Act 1971 (c.23). Section 13 was amended 
by section 139 of the Tribunals, 
Courts and Enforcement Act 2007 (c.15). Section 20 was amended by section 70 of, 
and paragraph 14 of Schedule 15 to, 
the Planning and Compensation Act 1991 (c.34). Sections 9, 25 and 29 were amended 
by the Statute Law (Repeals) Act 
1973 (c.39). Section 31 was also amended by section 70 of, and paragraph 19 of 
Schedule15 to, the Planning and 
Compensation Act 1991 (c.34) and by section 14 of, and paragraph 12(2) of Schedule 
5 to, the Church of England 
(Miscellaneous Provisions) Measure 2006 (2006 No.1). There are other amendments 
to the 1965 Act which are not relevant 
to this Order. 
(d) 1980 c.66. Section 1(1) was amended by section 21(2) of the New Roads and 
Street Works Act 1991 (c.22); sections 1(2), 
 
 
191
1(3) and1(4) were amended by section 8 of, and paragraph (1) of Schedule 4 to, the 
Local Government Act 1985 (c.51); 
section 1(2A) was inserted by and section 1(3) was amended by section 259 (1), (2) 
and (3) of the Greater London 
Authority Act 1999 (c.29); sections 1(3A) and 1(5) were inserted by section 22(1) of, 
and paragraph 1 of Schedule 7 to, the 
Local Government (Wales) Act 1994 (c.19). Section 36(2) was amended by section 
4(1) of, and paragraphs 47(a) and (b) of 
Schedule 2 to, the Housing (Consequential Provisions) Act 1985 (c.71), by S.I. 
2006/1177, by section 4 of, and paragraph 
45(3) of Schedule 2 to, the Planning (Consequential Provisions) Act 1990 (c.11), by 
section 64(1) (2) and (3) of the 
Transport and Works Act (c.42) and by section 57 of, and paragraph 5 of Part 1 of 
Schedule 6 to, the Countryside and 
Rights of Way Act 2000 (c.37); section 36(3A) was inserted by section 64(4) of the 
Transport and Works Act 1992 and was 
amended by S.I. 2006/1177; section 36(6) was amended by section 8 of, and 
paragraph 7 of Schedule 4 to, the Local 
Government Act 1985 (c.51); and section 36(7) was inserted by section 22(1) of, and 
paragraph 4 of Schedule 7 to, the 
Local Government (Wales) Act 1994 (c.19). Section 329 was amended by section 
112(4) of, and Schedule 18 to the 
Electricity Act 1989 (c.29) and by section 190(3) of, and Part 1 of Schedule 27 to, the 
Water Act 1989 (c.15). There are 
other amendments to the 1980 Act which are not relevant to this Order. 
(e) 1990 c.8. Section 206(1) was amended by section 192(8) of, and paragraphs 7 and 
11 of Schedule 8 to, the Planning Act 
2008 (c29) (date in force to be appointed see section 241(3) and (4)(a) and (c) of the 
2008 Act). There are other 
amendments to the 1990 Act which are not relevant to this Order. 
(f) 1991 c.22. Section 48(3A) was inserted by section 124 of the Local Transport Act 
2008 (c.26). Sections 79(4), 80(4) and 
83(4) were amended by section 40 of, and Schedule 1 to, the Traffic Management Act 
2004 (c.18). 
(g) 2008 c.29.  
 60 
“authorised development” means the development and associated development 
described in 
Part 1 of Schedule A (authorised project) [and any other development authorised by 
this 
Order], which is development within the meaning of section 32 of the 2008 Act; 
“the authorised project” means the authorised development and the ancillary works 
authorised 
by this Order; 
“the book of reference” means the book of reference certified by the decision-maker 
as the 
book of reference for the purposes of this Order; 
“building” includes any structure or erection or any part of a building, structure or 
erection; 
“carriageway” has the same meaning as in the 1980 Act; 
 
 
192
“conservancy authority” has the same meaning as in section 313 of the Merchant 
Shipping Act 
1995(a); 
“compulsory acquisition notice” means a notice served in accordance with section 134 
of the 
2008 Act; 
“the decision-maker” has the same meaning as in section 103 the 2008 Act; 
“harbour” means the harbour constructed by the undertaker in pursuance of the 
powers 
conferred on them by [insert title of Act/Orders] Acts and Orders [insert dates of 
Act/Orders] 
and this Order and includes the open cut or channel also constructed under those 
powers, and 
all other works, land, buildings, ancillary works, plant, property and conveniences 
connected 
with them, as from time to time existing; 
“the harbourmaster” means the harbourmaster appointed under this Order; 
“highway” and “highway authority” have the same meaning as in the 1980 Act; 
“the land plan” means the plan certified as the land plan by the decision-maker for the 
purposes of this Order; 
“level of high water” means the level of mean high-water springs; 
“Order land” means the land shown on the land plan which is within the limits of land 
to be 
acquired and described in the book of reference; 
“the Order limits” means the limits shown on the works plan within which the 
authorised 
project may be carried out; 
“owner”, in relation to land, has the same meaning as in section 7 of the Acquisition 
of Land 
Act 1981(b); 
“relevant planning authority” means— 
(i) the district planning authority for the area in which the land to which the provisions 
of this Order apply is situated unless the provisions relate to the construction or 
alteration of a hazardous waste facility, in which case it means the county planning 
authority; 
(ii) a National Park Authority; 
(iii) the Broads Authority; and 
(iv) the Greater London Authority if the land to which the provisions of this Order or 
requirements apply is situated in Greater London; 
“rights plan” means the plan certified as the rights plan by the decision-maker for the 
purposes 
of this Order; 
“the sections” means the sections shown on the plan certified as the section drawings 
plan by 
the decision-maker for the purposes of this Order; 
“statutory undertaker” means any person falling within section 127(8), 128(5) or 
129(2) of the 
2008 Act; 
(a) 1995 c.21. There are amendments to section 313 which are not relevant to this 
Order. 
 
 
193
(b) 1981 c.67. Section 7 was amended by section 70 of, and paragraph 9 of Schedule 
15 to, the Planning and Compensation 
Act 1991 (c.34). There are other amendments to the 1981 Act which are not relevant 
to this Order.  
 61 
“street” means a street within the meaning of section 48 of the 1991 Act, together 
with land on 
the verge of a street or between two carriageways, and includes part of a street; 
“street authority”, in relation to a street, has the same meaning as in Part 3 of the 1991 
Act; 
“tidal work” means so much of any work authorised by this Order as is on, under or 
over tidal 
waters or tidal lands below the level of high water; 
“tree preservation order” has the meaning given in section 198 of the 1990 Act; 
“the tribunal” means the Lands Chamber of the Upper Tribunal; 
“Trinity House” means the Corporation of Trinity House of Deptford Strond; 
“undertaker” means the person who has the benefit of this Order in accordance with 
section 
156 of the 2008 Act; 
“the undertaking” means the harbour undertaking of the undertaker as authorised from 
time to 
time; 
“vessel” means every description of vessel, however propelled or moved, and includes 
a nondisplacement 
craft, a personal watercraft, a seaplane on the surface of the water, a hydrofoil 
vessel, a hovercraft or any other amphibious vehicle and any other thing constructed 
or 
adapted for movement through, in, on or over water and which is at the time in, on or 
over 
water; 
“watercourse” includes all rivers, streams, ditches, drains, canals, cuts, culverts, 
dykes, 
sluices, sewers and passages through which water flows except a public sewer or 
drain; and 
“the works plan” means the plan certified as the works plan by the decision-maker for 
the 
purposes of this Order. 
(2) References in this Order to rights over land include references to rights to do, or to 
place and 
maintain, anything in, on or under land or in the air-space above its surface. 
(3) All points, directions, lengths, areas and other measurements stated in this Order 
are 
approximate and distances between points on a work comprised in the authorised 
project shall be 
taken to be measured along that work. 
(4) Reference points specified in this Order shall be construed as references to 
Ordnance Survey 
National Grid reference points. 
[NOTE: In the case of off-shore development, which is outside the area of any 
planning authority, 
 
 
194
it will be necessary to identify another appropriate body instead of the planning 
authority.] 
Incorporation of the Harbours, Docks and Piers Clauses Act 1847 
2.—(1) With the exception of sections 6 to 23, 25, 31, the proviso to section 32, 
sections 42, 45, 
48 to 50, 60 to 63, 66 to 69, 73, 77 and 79 to 90, 92, 97 and 102, the 1847 Act is 
incorporated in 
this Order subject to the modifications stated in paragraphs (2) and (3). 
(2) In construing the 1847 Act as so incorporated— 
(a) the expression “the special Act” means this Order; 
(b) the expressions “the Promoters of the undertaking” and “the undertakers” mean 
the 
[insert relevant body]. 
(c) the expression “the harbour, dock or pier” means the authorised project within the 
area of 
jurisdiction; 
(d) the expressions “limits” and “prescribed limits” mean the area of jurisdiction; 
(e) the expression “near the pier” does not extend beyond the area of jurisdiction; 
(f) the expression “the harbour master”, in relation to the authorised project, means 
the 
[insert relevant body].; 
(g) the definition of “vessel” in article 1(1) shall be substituted for the definition in 
section 3 
of the 1847 Act;  
 62 
(h) section 53 of the 1847 Act shall not be construed as requiring the harbourmaster to 
serve 
written notice on the master of a vessel and directions given under that section may be 
communicated to the master of a vessel orally or otherwise; and 
(i) any requirement to comply with a notice or direction given by the harbour master 
shall be 
construed as including a requirement that, in complying with such notice or direction, 
a 
person who is subject to the notice or direction shall also comply with any relevant 
notice 
or direction given by the [insert relevant authority] or the harbour master in the 
exercise 
by either or both of them of any function conferred by or under any enactment 
(including 
this Order). 
Principal powers 
Development consent etc. granted by the Order 
3. Subject to the provisions of this Order and to the requirements in the Schedule 
(requirements) 
attached to this Order the undertaker is granted— 
(a) development consent for the authorised development; and 
(b) consent for the ancillary works, 
to be carried out within the Order limits. 
Period for completion of work 
 
 
195
4. If the work is not completed within [five or such other period as specified] years 
from the 
coming into force of this Order or such extended time as the decision-maker may on 
the 
application of the undertaker allow, then on the expiration of that period or such 
extended time (as 
the case may be) the rights by this Order granted to the undertaker for making and 
maintaining the 
works shall cease except as to so much thereof as is then substantially commenced. 
Limits of harbour 
5.—(1) The limits of the harbour within which the undertaker shall exercise 
jurisdiction shall be 
the area described in Schedule K to this Order and shown, for the purpose of 
identification only, 
[…]; and in the following provisions of this Order, references to the limits of the 
harbour shall be 
construed as references to the limits so described. 
(2) Any references to the limits of the harbour contained in the [insert name of Acts] 
Acts and 
Orders or in any byelaws, orders or regulations made under those Acts or Orders, 
shall be 
construed as references to the limits described in Schedule L to this Order. 
(3) [any necessary revocations]. 
Maintenance of authorised project 
6. The undertaker may at any time maintain the authorised project and within the 
limits of the 
harbour, from time to time alter, enlarge, replace, relay, extend or reconstruct 
temporarily or 
permanently the authorised development, except to the extent that this Order or an 
agreement 
made under this Order, provides otherwise. 
Subsidiary works 
7.—(1) The undertaker may from time to time within the Order limits provide and 
operate such 
harbour facilities, together with works ancillary to those facilities, as may be 
necessary or 
convenient for the construction of the work or the operation of the undertaking, and 
for this 
purpose the undertaker may construct and maintain roads, buildings, sheds, offices, 
workshops, 
depots, walls, foundations, fences, gates, tanks, pumps, conduits, pipes, drains, wires, 
mains, 
cables, electrical substations, signals, conveyors, cranes, container handling 
equipment, lifts,  
 63 
hoists, lighting columns, weighbridges, stairs, ladders, stages, platforms, catwalks, 
equipment, 
machinery and appliances and such other works and conveniences as may be 
necessary or 
expedient. 
 
 
196
(2) Without prejudice to paragraph (1), the undertaker may within the Order limits 
carry out and 
maintain such other works as may be necessary or convenient for the purposes of, or 
in connection 
with or in consequence of, the construction, maintenance or use of the work 
including— 
(a) works for the accommodation or convenience of vessels (including dolphins and 
pontoons); and 
(b) works to alter the position of apparatus, including mains, sewers, drains, pipes, 
conduits, 
cables, electrical substations and electrical lines. 
(3) Article 3 of, and Parts [specify any required provisions in respect of permitted 
development 
right] 11 and 17 in Schedule 2 to, the Town and Country Planning (General Permitted 
Development) Order 1995(a) shall apply as if this Order were a grant of planning 
permission. 
Benefit of Order 
8. Subject to article 9 (consent to transfer benefit of Order), the provisions of articles [ 
] and [ ] 
[specify relevant articles] shall have effect solely for the benefit of [specify person, 
body or class 
of person]. 
[NOTE: This article is required where provisions of the Order are specific to a named 
undertaker 
or class of undertaker (see section 156(2)(benefit of order granting development 
consent) of the 
2008 Act).] 
Consent to transfer benefit of Order 
9.—(1) The undertaker may, with the consent of the [specify person or body]— 
(a) transfer to another person (“the transferee”) any or all of the benefit of the 
provisions of 
this Order and such related statutory rights as may be agreed between the undertaker 
and 
the transferee; or 
(b) grant to another person (“the lessee”) for a period agreed between the undertaker 
and the 
lessee any or all of the benefit of the provisions of this Order and such related 
statutory 
rights as may be so agreed. 
(2) Where an agreement has been made in accordance with paragraph (1) references 
in this 
Order to the undertaker, except in paragraph (3), shall include references to the 
transferee or the 
lessee. 
(3) The exercise by a person of any benefits or rights conferred in accordance with 
any transfer 
or grant under paragraph (1) shall be subject to the same restrictions, liabilities and 
obligations as 
would apply under this Order if those benefits or rights were exercised by the 
undertaker. 
 
 
197
Streets 
Street works 
10.—(1) The undertaker may, for the purposes of the authorised project, enter on so 
much of 
any of the streets specified in Schedule B (streets subject to street works) as is within 
the Order 
limits and may— 
(a) break up or open the street, or any sewer, drain or tunnel under it; 
(b) tunnel or bore under the street; 
(c) place apparatus in the street; 
(a) S.I. 1995/418. Relevant amendments were made by SI 1999/293, 1999/1783 and 
2003/956. There are other amendments 
not relevant to this Order.  
 64 
(d) maintain apparatus in the street or change its position; and 
(e) execute any works required for or incidental to any works referred to in sub-
paragraphs 
(a), (b), (c) and (d). 
(2) The authority given by paragraph (1) is a statutory right for the purposes of 
sections 48(3) 
(streets, street works and undertakers) and 51(1) (prohibition of unauthorised street 
works) of the 
1991 Act. 
(3) The provisions of sections 54 to 106 of the 1991 Act apply to any street works 
carried out 
under paragraph (1). 
(4) In this article “apparatus” has the same meaning as in Part 3 of the 1991 Act. 
[NOTE: This article should not be used for the purposes of authorising street works 
that affect a 
trunk road (as defined in the 1980 Act); no trunk roads should be specified in 
Schedule B (streets 
subject to street works). For any street works affecting a trunk road the undertaker 
should make 
an application for a licence under section 50 of the 1991 Act.] 
Stopping up of streets 
11.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this article, the undertaker may, in connection 
with the 
carrying out of the authorised project, stop up each of the streets specified in columns 
(1) and (2) 
of Parts 1 and 2 of Schedule C (streets to be stopped up) to the extent specified, by 
reference to the 
letters and numbers shown on the works plan, in column (3) of those Parts of that 
Schedule. 
(2) No street specified in columns (1) and (2) of Part 1 of Schedule C (being a street 
to be 
stopped up for which a substitute is to be provided) shall be wholly or partly stopped 
up under this 
article unless— 
(a) the new street to be substituted for it, which is specified in column (4) of that Part 
of that 
 
 
198
Schedule, has been completed to the reasonable satisfaction of the street authority and 
is 
open for use; or 
(b) a temporary alternative route for the passage of such traffic as could have used the 
street 
to be stopped up is first provided and subsequently maintained by the undertaker, to 
the 
reasonable satisfaction of the street authority, between the commencement and 
termination points for the stopping up of the street until the completion and opening 
of 
the new street in accordance with sub-paragraph (a). 
(3) No street specified in columns (1) and (2) of Part 2 of Schedule C (being a street 
to be 
stopped up for which no substitute is to be provided) shall be wholly or partly stopped 
up under 
this article unless the condition specified in paragraph (4) is satisfied in relation to all 
the land 
which abuts on either side of the street to be stopped up. 
(4) The condition referred to in paragraph (3) is that— 
(a) the undertaker is in possession of the land; or 
(b) there is no right of access to the land from the street concerned; or 
(c) there is reasonably convenient access to the land otherwise than from the street 
concerned; or 
(d) the owners and occupiers of the land have agreed to the stopping up. 
(5) Where a street has been stopped up under this article— 
(a) all rights of way over or along the street so stopped up shall be extinguished; and 
(b) the undertaker may appropriate and use for the purposes of the authorised project 
so 
much of the site of the street as is bounded on both sides by land owned by the 
undertaker. 
(6) Any person who suffers loss by the suspension or extinguishment of any private 
right of way 
under this article shall be entitled to compensation to be determined, in case of 
dispute, under Part 
1 of the 1961 Act. 
(7) This article is subject to article 42 (apparatus etc. of statutory undertakers).  
 65 
Temporary stopping up of streets 
12.—(1) The undertaker, during and for the purposes of carrying out the authorised 
project, may 
temporarily stop up, alter or divert any street and may for any reasonable time— 
(a) divert the traffic from the street; and 
(b) subject to paragraph (2), prevent all persons from passing along the street. 
(2) The undertaker shall provide reasonable access for pedestrians going to or from 
premises 
abutting a street affected by the temporary stopping up, alteration or diversion of a 
street under 
this article if there would otherwise be no such access. 
(3) Without prejudice to the generality of paragraph (1), the undertaker may 
temporarily stop up, 
 
 
199
alter or divert the streets specified in columns (1) and (2) of Schedule D (streets to be 
temporarily 
stopped up) to the extent specified, by reference to the letters and numbers shown on 
the works 
plan, in column (3) of that Schedule. 
(4) The undertaker shall not temporarily stop up, alter or divert— 
(a) any street specified as mentioned in paragraph (3) without first consulting the 
street 
authority; and 
(b) any other street without the consent of the street authority which may attach 
reasonable 
conditions to any consent. 
(5) Any person who suffers loss by the suspension of any private right of way under 
this article 
shall be entitled to compensation to be determined, in case of dispute, under Part 1 of 
the 1961 
Act. 
Access to works 
13. The undertaker may, for the purposes of the authorised project— 
(a) form and lay out means of access, or improve existing means of access, in the 
location 
specified in columns (1) and (2) of Schedule E (access to works); and 
(b) with the approval of the relevant planning authority after consultation with the 
highway 
authority, form and lay out such other means of access or improve existing means of 
access, at such locations within the Order limits as the undertaker reasonably requires 
for 
the purposes of the authorised project. 
Agreements with street authorities 
14.—(1) A street authority and the undertaker may enter into agreements with respect 
to— 
(a) the construction of any new street including any structure carrying the street over 
or 
under a [insert description of development] authorised by this Order; 
(b) the maintenance of the structure of any bridge or tunnel carrying a street over or 
under a 
[insert description of development]; 
(c) any stopping up, alteration or diversion of a street authorised by this Order; or 
(d) the carrying out in the street of any of the works referred to in article 10(1) (street 
works). 
(2) Such an agreement may, without prejudice to the generality of paragraph (1)— 
(a) make provision for the street authority to carry out any function under this Order 
which 
relates to the street in question; 
(b) include an agreement between the undertaker and street authority specifying a 
reasonable 
time for the completion of the works; and 
(c) contain such terms as to payment and otherwise as the parties consider 
appropriate. 
Public rights of way 
 
 
200
15.—(1) With effect from the [date of publication of this Order] [the date of 
certification by the 
local highway authority that the agreed alternative right of way has been created to the 
standard  
 66 
defined in the implementation plan], [the section of] the public right of way (being a 
[insert one 
of: footpath/bridleway/byway open to all traffic/restricted byway]) shown marked in 
[red] between 
the points [A] and [B] on the rights plan is extinguished. 
(2) With effect from [that same date] [insert later date] an alternative section of [insert 
description of right of way of that same type] as marked in [green] between the points 
[C] and [D] 
on the rights plan is created. 
(3) In this article— 
“implementation plan” means the written plan agreed between the undertaker and the 
local 
highway authority for creation of the agreed alternative right of way to the defined 
standard; 
and 
“local highway authority” has the same meaning as in section 329(1) of the 1980 Act. 
Supplemental powers 
Discharge of water 
16.—(1) The undertaker may use any watercourse or any public sewer or drain for the 
drainage 
of water in connection with the carrying out or maintenance of the authorised project 
and for that 
purpose may lay down, take up and alter pipes and may, on any land within the Order 
limits, make 
openings into, and connections with, the watercourse, public sewer or drain. 
(2) Any dispute arising from the making of connections to or the use of a public sewer 
or drain 
by the undertaker pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be determined as if it were a dispute 
under 
section 106 of the Water Industry Act 1991(a) (right to communicate with public 
sewers). 
(3) The undertaker shall not discharge any water into any watercourse, public sewer 
or drain 
except with the consent of the person to whom it belongs; and such consent may be 
given subject 
to such terms and conditions as that person may reasonably impose, but shall not be 
unreasonably 
withheld. 
(4) The undertaker shall not make any opening into any public sewer or drain 
except— 
(a) in accordance with plans approved by the person to whom the sewer or drain 
belongs, but 
such approval shall not be unreasonably withheld; and 
(b) where that person has been given the opportunity to supervise the making of the 
opening. 
 
 
201
(5) The undertaker shall not, in carrying out or maintaining works pursuant to this 
article, 
damage or interfere with the bed or banks of any watercourse forming part of a main 
river. 
(6) The undertaker shall take such steps as are reasonably practicable to secure that 
any water 
discharged into a watercourse or public sewer or drain pursuant to this article is as 
free as may be 
practicable from gravel, soil or other solid substance, oil or matter in suspension. 
(7) This article does not authorise the entry into controlled waters of any matter whose 
entry or 
discharge into controlled waters is prohibited by section 85(1), (2) or (3) of the Water 
Resources 
Act 1991(b) (offences of polluting water). 
(8) In this article— 
(a) “public sewer or drain” means a sewer or drain which belongs to the Homes and 
Communities Agency, the Environment Agency, a harbour authority within the 
meaning 
of section 57 of the Harbours Act 1964(c), an internal drainage board, a joint planning 
board, a local authority, a National Park Authority, a sewerage undertaker or an urban 
development corporation; and 
(a) 1991 c.56. Section 106 was amended by the Water Act 2003 (c.37), sections 36(2) 
and 99. There are other amendments to 
section 106 which are not relevant to this Order. 
(b) 1991 c.57. Section 85(1) was amended by paragraphs 21(1) and (2) in Part 1 of 
Schedule 21 to S.I. 2007/3538. 
(c) 1964 c.40. Paragraph 9B was inserted into Schedule 2 by the Transport and Works 
Act 1992 (c.42), section 63(1) and 
Schedule 3, paragraph 9(1) and (5).  
 67 
(b) other expressions, excluding watercourse, used both in this article and in the Water 
Resources Act 1991 have the same meaning as in that Act. 
Protective work to buildings 
17.—(1) Subject to the following provisions of this article, the undertaker may at its 
own 
expense carry out such protective works to any building lying within the Order limits 
as the 
undertaker considers necessary or expedient. 
(2) Protective works may be carried out— 
(a) at any time before or during the carrying out in the vicinity of the building of any 
part of 
the authorised project; or 
(b) after the completion of that part of the authorised project in the vicinity of the 
building at 
any time up to the end of the period of 5 years beginning with the day on which that 
part 
of the authorised project is first opened for use. 
(3) For the purpose of determining how the functions under this article are to be 
exercised the 
 
 
202
undertaker may enter and survey any building falling within paragraph (1) and any 
land within its 
curtilage. 
(4) For the purpose of carrying out protective works under this article to a building the 
undertaker may (subject to paragraphs (5) and (6))— 
(a) enter the building and any land within its curtilage; and 
(b) where the works cannot be carried out reasonably conveniently without entering 
land 
which is adjacent to the building but outside its curtilage, enter the adjacent land (but 
not 
any building erected on it). 
(5) Before exercising— 
(a) a right under paragraph (1) to carry out protective works to a building; 
(b) a right under paragraph (3) to enter a building and land within its curtilage; 
(c) a right under paragraph (4)(a) to enter a building and land within its curtilage; or 
(d) a right under paragraph (4)(b) to enter land, 
the undertaker shall, except in the case of emergency, serve on the owners and 
occupiers of the 
building or land not less than 14 days’ notice of its intention to exercise that right and, 
in a case 
falling within sub-paragraph (a) or (c), specifying the protective works proposed to be 
carried out. 
(6) Where a notice is served under paragraph (5)(a), (c) or (d), the owner or occupier 
of the 
building or land concerned may, by serving a counter-notice within the period of 10 
days 
beginning with the day on which the notice was served, require the question whether 
it is 
necessary or expedient to carry out the protective works or to enter the building or 
land to be 
referred to arbitration under article 57 (arbitration). 
(7) The undertaker shall compensate the owners and occupiers of any building or land 
in relation 
to which rights under this article have been exercised for any loss or damage arising to 
them by 
reason of the exercise of those rights. 
(8) Where— 
(a) protective works are carried out under this article to a building; and 
(b) within the period of 5 years beginning with the day on which the part of the 
authorised 
project carried out in the vicinity of the building is first opened for use it appears that 
the 
protective works are inadequate to protect the building against damage caused by the 
carrying out or use of that part of the authorised project, 
the undertaker shall compensate the owners and occupiers of the building for any loss 
or damage 
sustained by them. 
(9) Nothing in this article shall relieve the undertaker from any liability to pay 
compensation 
under section 10(2) of the 1965 Act (compensation for injurious affection).  
 
 
203
 68 
(10) Any compensation payable under paragraph (7) or (8) shall be determined, in 
case of 
dispute, under Part 1 of the 1961 Act (determination of questions of disputed 
compensation). 
(11) In this article “protective works” in relation to a building means— 
(a) underpinning, strengthening and any other works the purpose of which is to 
prevent 
damage which may be caused to the building by the carrying out, maintenance or use 
of 
the authorised project; and 
(b) any works the purpose of which is to remedy any damage which has been caused 
to the 
building by the carrying out, maintenance or use of the authorised project. 
Authority to survey and investigate the land 
18.—(1)The undertaker may for the purposes of this Order enter on any land shown 
within the 
Order limits or which may be affected by the authorised project and— 
(a) survey or investigate the land; 
(b) without prejudice to the generality of sub-paragraph (a), make trial holes in such 
positions 
on the land as the undertaker thinks fit to investigate the nature of the surface layer 
and 
subsoil and remove soil samples; 
(c) without prejudice to the generality of sub-paragraph (a), carry out ecological or 
archaeological investigations on such land; and 
(d) place on, leave on and remove from the land apparatus for use in connection with 
the 
survey and investigation of land and making of trial holes. 
(2) No land may be entered or equipment placed or left on or removed from the land 
under 
paragraph (1) unless at least 14 days’ notice has been served on every owner and 
occupier of the 
land. 
(3) Any person entering land under this article on behalf of the undertaker— 
(a) shall, if so required, produce written evidence of their authority to do so; and 
(b) may take with them such vehicles and equipment as are necessary to carry out the 
survey 
or investigation or to make the trial holes. 
(4) No trial holes shall be made under this article— 
(a) in land located within the highway boundary without the consent of the highway 
authority; or 
(b) in a private street without the consent of the street authority, 
but such consent shall not be unreasonably withheld. 
(5) The undertaker shall compensate the owners and occupiers of the land for any loss 
or 
damage arising by reason of the exercise of the authority conferred by this article, 
such 
compensation to be determined, in case of dispute, under Part 1 of the 1961 Act 
(determination of 
 
 
204
questions of disputed compensation). 
Removal of human remains 
19.—(1) In this article “the specified land” means [insert description of the land]. 
(2) Before the undertaker carries out any development or works which will or may 
disturb any 
human remains in the specified land it shall remove those remains from the specified 
land, or 
cause them o be removed, in accordance with the following provisions of this article. 
(3) Before any such remains are removed from the specified land the undertaker shall 
give 
notice of the intended removal, describing the specified land and stating the general 
effect of the 
following provisions of this article, by— 
(a) publishing a notice once in each of two successive weeks in a newspaper 
circulating in 
the area of the authorised project; and 
(b) displaying a notice in a conspicuous place on or near to the specified land.  
 69 
(4) As soon as reasonably practicable after the first publication of a notice under 
paragraph (3) 
the undertaker shall send a copy of the notice to [insert relevant local authority]. 
(5) At any time within 56 days after the first publication of a notice under paragraph 
(3) any 
person who is a personal representative or relative of any deceased person whose 
remains are 
interred in the specified land may give notice in writing to the undertaker of that 
person’s intention 
to undertake the removal of the remains. 
(6) Where a person has given notice under paragraph (5), and the remains in question 
can be 
identified, that person may cause such remains to be— 
(a) removed and re-interred in any burial ground or cemetery in which burials may 
legally 
take place; or 
(b) removed to, and cremated in, any crematorium, 
and that person shall, as soon as reasonably practicable after such re-interment or 
cremation, 
provide to the undertaker a certificate for the purpose of enabling compliance with 
paragraph (11). 
(7) If the undertaker is not satisfied that any person giving notice under paragraph (5) 
is the 
personal representative or relative as that person claims to be, or that the remains in 
question can 
be identified, the question shall be determined on the application of either party in a 
summary 
manner by the county court, and the court may make an order specifying who shall 
remove the 
remains and as to the payment of the costs of the application. 
(8) The undertaker shall pay the reasonable expenses of removing and re-interring or 
cremating 
 
 
205
the remains of any deceased person under this article. 
(9) If— 
(a) within the period of 56 days referred to in paragraph (5) no notice under that 
paragraph 
has been given to the undertaker in respect of any remains in the specified land; or 
(b) such notice is given and no application is made under paragraph (7) within 56 days 
after 
the giving of the notice but the person who gave the notice fails to remove the remains 
within a further period of 56 days; or 
(c) within 56 days after any order is made by the county court under paragraph (7) any 
person, other than the undertaker, specified in the order fails to remove the remains; 
or 
(d) it is determined that the remains to which any such notice relates cannot be 
identified, 
subject to paragraph (10) the undertaker shall remove the remains and cause them to 
be re-interred 
in such burial ground or cemetery in which burials may legally take place as the 
undertaker thinks 
suitable for the purpose and so far as possible remains from individual graves shall be 
re-interred 
in individual containers which shall be identifiable by a record prepared with 
reference to the 
original position of burial of the remains that they contain. 
(10) If the undertaker is satisfied that any person giving notice under paragraph (5) is 
the 
personal representative or relative as that person claims to be and that the remains in 
question can 
be identified, but that person does not remove the remains, the undertaker shall 
comply with any 
reasonable request that person may make in relation to the removal and re-interment 
or cremation 
of the remains. 
(11) On the re-interment or cremation of any remains under this article— 
(a) a certificate of reinterment or cremation shall be sent by the undertaker to the 
Registrar 
General by the undertaker giving the date of reinterment or cremation and identifying 
the 
place from which the remains were removed and the place in which they were 
reinterred 
or cremated; and 
(b) a copy of the certificate of re-interment or cremation and the record mentioned in 
paragraph (9) shall be sent by the undertaker to [insert relevant local authority] 
mentioned in paragraph (4). 
(12) The removal of the remains of any deceased person under this article shall be 
carried out in 
accordance with any directions which may be given by the Secretary of State. 
(13) Any jurisdiction or function conferred on the county court by this article may be 
exercised 
by the district judge of the court.  
 70 
 
 
206
(14) Section 25 of the Burial Act 1857(a) (bodies not to be removed from burial 
grounds, save 
under faculty, without licence of Secretary of State) shall not apply to a removal 
carried out in 
accordance with this article. 
Right to dredge 
20.—(1)The undertaker may, for the purposes of constructing and maintaining the 
work and of 
affording access to the work by vessels, from time to time deepen, dredge, scour, 
cleanse, alter and 
improve so much of the bed, shores and channels of the river as adjoin or are near to 
the work and 
may use, appropriate or dispose of the materials (other than wreck within the meaning 
of Part 9 of 
the Merchant Shipping Act 1995) from time to time dredged by them. 
(2) No such materials shall be laid down or deposited— 
(a) in contravention of the provisions of any enactment as respects the disposal of 
waste; or 
(b) in any place below the level of high water otherwise than in such position and 
under such 
conditions and restrictions as may be approved or prescribed by[insert relevant body]. 
(3) [if applicable] The undertaker shall consult with [name of separate conservancy 
port 
authority] before exercising the rights conferred on them by this article. 
Tidal works not to be executed without approval of Secretary of State 
21.—(1) Unless its construction has commenced within five years [or such other 
period as is 
prescribed or specified in the Order] of the coming into force of this Order, no tidal 
work shall be 
constructed, reconstructed, extended, enlarged, replaced or relaid except in 
accordance with plans 
and sections approved by the Secretary of State and subject to any conditions and 
restrictions 
imposed by the Secretary of State before that work is begun. 
(2) Any request for the approval of the Secretary of State under paragraph (1) shall be 
accompanied by written evidence to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Secretary of 
State that 
Schedule L(protective provisions) has been complied with as respects the tidal work 
for which 
approval is being requested. 
(3) If a tidal work is constructed, reconstructed, extended, enlarged, replaced or relaid 
in 
contravention of paragraph (1) or of any condition or restriction imposed under that 
paragraph— 
(a) the Secretary of State may by notice in writing require the undertaker at their own 
expense to remove the tidal work or any part of it and restore the site to its former 
condition; and, if on the expiration of 30 days beginning with the date when the notice 
is 
served on the undertaker they have failed to take reasonable steps to comply with the 
 
 
207
requirements of the notice, the Secretary of State may take whatever steps the 
Secretary 
of State considers appropriate to achieve the result required by the notice; or 
(b) if it appears to the Secretary of State urgently necessary so to do, the Secretary of 
State 
may remove the tidal work, or part of it, and restore the site to its former condition, 
and any expenditure incurred by the Secretary of State in so doing shall be 
recoverable from the 
undertaker. 
Abatement of works abandoned or decayed 
22.—(1) Where a tidal work is abandoned, or suffered to fall into decay, the Secretary 
of State 
may by notice in writing require the undertaker at its own expense either to repair and 
restore that 
work or any part, or to remove that work and restore the site to its former condition, to 
such an 
extent and within such limits as the Secretary of State thinks proper. 
(2) Where a work consisting partly of a tidal work and partly of works on or over land 
above the 
level of high water is abandoned or suffered to fall into decay and that part of the 
work on or over 
land above the level of high water is in such condition as to interfere or to cause 
reasonable 
(a) 1857 c. 81. There are amendments to this Act which are not relevant to this Order.  
 71 
apprehension that it may interfere with the right of navigation or other public rights 
over the 
foreshore, the Secretary of State may include that part of the work, or any portion of 
it, in any 
notice under this article. 
(3) If the undertaker fails to comply in any respect with a notice served under this 
article within 
the period of 30 days beginning with the date of service of the notice, the Secretary of 
State may 
take whatever steps the Secretary of State considers appropriate to achieve the result 
required by 
the notice; and any expenditure incurred by the Secretary of State in so doing shall be 
recoverable 
from the undertaker. 
Survey of tidal works 
23. If the Secretary of State considers it expedient to do so, the Secretary of State may 
order a 
survey and examination of a tidal work or of the site on which it is proposed to 
construct the work, 
and any expenditure incurred by the Secretary of State in any such survey and 
examination shall 
be recoverable from the undertaker. 
Lights on tidal works etc. during construction 
24. The undertaker shall at or near— 
(a) a tidal work, including any temporary work; or 
 
 
208
(b) any plant, equipment or other obstruction placed, in connection with any 
authorised 
development or any work authorised by article 7 (subsidiary works), within the area 
of 
seaward construction activity, 
during the whole time of the construction, reconstruction, extension, enlargement, 
replacement or 
relaying, exhibit every night from sunset to sunrise such lights, if any, and take such 
other steps 
for the prevention of danger to navigation as the Secretary of State [and the 
conservancy authority 
if applicable or, failing agreement between them, the Secretary of State] may from 
time to time 
direct. 
Provision against danger to navigation 
25. In case of damage to, or destruction or decay of, a tidal work or any part of it, the 
undertaker 
shall as soon as reasonably practicable notify [separate conservancy authority if 
applicable and] 
Trinity House and shall lay down such buoys, exhibit such lights and take such other 
steps for 
preventing danger to navigation as Trinity House [and the conservancy authority or, 
failing 
agreement between them, the conservancy authority] may from time to time direct. 
Permanent lights on tidal works 
26. After the completion of a tidal work the undertaker shall at the outer extremity of 
it exhibit 
every night from sunset to sunrise such lights, if any, and take such other steps, if any, 
for the 
prevention of danger to navigation as [the separate conservancy authority if applicable 
and] 
Trinity House [or, failing agreement between them, the conservancy authority] may 
from time to 
time direct. 
Rights to lease etc. 
27.—(1) The undertaker may at any time lease or grant for the purposes of the 
undertaking the 
use or occupation of, or any right or interest in, over or relating to, any lands, works, 
buildings, 
equipment or other property forming part of the undertaking for such period or 
periods and on 
such terms and conditions as may be agreed between the undertaker and the persons 
taking the 
same.  
 72 
(2) A lease or grant made or given under paragraph (1) may include provisions 
delegating to the 
lessee or grantee any of the functions of the undertaker other than those specified in 
subparagraphs 
(a) to (f) of paragraph 9B of Schedule 2 to the Harbours Act 1964(a). 
 
 
209
Powers of acquisition 
Compulsory acquisition of land 
28.—(1) The undertaker may acquire compulsorily so much of the Order land as is 
required for 
the authorised project [or to facilitate, or is incidental, to it][or is required as 
replacement land]. 
(2) As from the date on which a compulsory acquisition notice under section 134(3) 
of the 2008 
Act is served or the date on which the Order land, or any part of it, is vested in the 
undertaker, 
whichever is the later, that land or that part of it which is vested (as the case may be) 
shall be 
discharged from all rights, trusts and incidents to which it was previously subject. 
(3) Any person who suffers loss by the extinguishment or suspension of any private 
right of way 
under this article shall be entitled to compensation to be determined, in case of 
dispute, under Part 
1 of the 1961 Act. 
(4) This article is subject to article 35 (acquisition of land limited to subsoil lying 
more than 9 
metres beneath surface) and article 38 (temporary use of land for carrying out the 
authorised 
project). 
Compulsory acquisition of land – incorporation of the mineral code 
29. [Part(s)] 2 [and 3] of Schedule 2 to the Acquisition of Land Act 1981(b)(minerals) 
[is/are] 
incorporated in this Order subject to the modifications that— 
(a) paragraph 8(3) is not incorporated; 
(b) for “the acquiring authority” substitute “the undertaker”; 
(c) [insert additional modifications]. 
Time limit for exercise of authority to acquire land compulsorily 
30.—(1) After the end of the period of [5 years] beginning on the day on which this 
Order is 
made— 
(a) no notice to treat shall be served under Part 1 of the 1965 Act; and 
(b) no declaration shall be executed under section 4 of the Compulsory Purchase 
(Vesting 
Declarations) Act 1981 as applied by article 33 (application of the Compulsory 
Purchase 
(Vesting Declarations) Act 1981)(c). 
(2) The authority conferred by article 38 (temporary use of land for carrying out the 
authorised 
project) shall cease at the end of the period referred to in paragraph (1), save that 
nothing in this 
paragraph shall prevent the undertaker remaining in possession of land after the end of 
that period, 
if the land was entered and possession was taken before the end of that period. 
(a) 1964 c.40. Paragraph 9B was inserted by section 63 of, and paragraph 9 of 
Schedule 3 to, the Transport and Works Act 
1992 (c.42). 
 
 
210
(b) 1981 c.67. Sub-paragraph (5) of paragraph 1 of Part 1 of Schedule 2 was amended 
by section 67 of, and paragraph 27(3) of 
Schedule 9 to, the Coal Industry Act 1994 (c.21) and paragraph 8 of Part 3 of 
Schedule was amended by section 46 of the 
Criminal Justice Act 1982 (c.48). There are other amendments to the 1981 Act which 
are not relevant to this Order. 
(c) 1981 c.66. Sections 2 and 116 were amended by section 4 of, and paragraph 52 of 
Schedule 2 to, the Planning 
(Consequential Provisions) Act 1990 (c.11). There are other amendments to the 1981 
Act which are not relevant to this 
Order.  
 73 
Compulsory acquisition of rights 
31.—(1) The undertaker may acquire compulsorily the existing rights and create and 
acquire 
compulsorily the new rights described in the book of reference and shown on the 
[insert name] 
plan. 
(2) As from the date on which a compulsory acquisition notice is served or the date on 
which 
any new right is vested in the undertaker, whichever is the later, the land over which 
any new 
rights is acquired shall be discharged from all rights, trusts and incidents to which it 
was 
previously subject so far as their continuance would be inconsistent with the exercise 
of that new 
right. 
(3) Subject to section 8 of the 1965 Act as substituted by article 36 (acquisition of part 
of certain 
properties), where the undertaker acquires an existing right over land under paragraph 
(1), the 
undertaker shall not be required to acquire a greater interest in that land. 
(4) Any person who suffers loss as a result of the extinguishment or suspension of any 
private 
right of way under this article shall be entitled to compensation to be determined, in 
case of 
dispute, under Part 1 of the 1961 Act. 
Private rights of way 
32.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights of way over land 
subject to 
compulsory acquisition under this Order shall be extinguished— 
(a) as from the date of acquisition of the land by the undertaker, whether compulsorily 
or by 
agreement; or 
(b) on the date of entry on the land by the undertaker under section 11(1) of the 1965 
Act 
(power of entry), 
whichever is the earliest. 
(2) Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights of way over land owned 
by the 
 
 
211
undertaker which, being within the limits of land which may be acquired shown on 
the land plan, 
is required for the purposes of this Order shall be extinguished on the appropriation of 
the land by 
the undertaker for any of those purposes. 
(3) Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights of way over land of 
which the 
undertaker takes temporary possession under this Order shall be suspended and 
unenforceable for 
as long as the undertaker remains in lawful possession of the land. 
(4) Any person who suffers loss by the extinguishment or suspension of any private 
right of way 
under this article shall be entitled to compensation to be determined, in case of 
dispute, under Part 
1 of the 1961 Act. 
(5) This article does not apply in relation to any right of way to which section 138 of 
the 2008 
Act (extinguishment of rights, and removal of apparatus, of statutory undertakers etc.) 
or article 41 
(statutory undertakers) applies. 
(6) Paragraphs (1) to (3) shall have effect subject to— 
(a) any notice given by the undertaker before— 
(i) the completion of the acquisition of the land; 
(ii) the undertaker’s appropriation of it; 
(iii) the undertaker’s entry onto it; or 
(iv) the undertaker’s taking temporary possession of it, 
that any or all of those paragraphs shall not apply to any right of way specified in the 
notice; and 
(b) any agreement made at any time between the undertaker and the person in or to 
whom the 
right of way in question is vested or belongs. 
(7) If any such agreement as is referred to in paragraph (6)(b)— 
(a) is made with a person in or to whom the right of way is vested or belongs; and  
 74 
(b) is expressed to have effect also for the benefit of those deriving title from or under 
that 
person, 
it shall be effective in respect of the persons so deriving title, whether the title was 
derived before 
or after the making of the agreement. 
Application of the Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act 1981 
33.—(1) The Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act 1981(a) shall apply as 
if this 
Order were a compulsory purchase order. 
(2) The Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act 1981, as so applied, shall 
have effect 
with the following modifications. 
(3) In section 3 (preliminary notices) for subsection (1) there shall be substituted— 
“(1) Before making a declaration under section 4 with respect to any land which is 
subject 
 
 
212
to a compulsory purchase order the acquiring authority shall include the particulars 
specified in subsection (3) in a notice which is— 
(a) given to every person with a relevant interest in the land with respect to which the 
declaration is to be made (other than a mortgagee who is not in possession); and 
(b) published in a local newspaper circulating in the area in which the land is situated. 
”. 
(4) In that section, in subsection (2), for “(1)(b)” there shall be substituted “(1)” and 
after 
“given” there shall be inserted “and published”. 
(5) In that section, for subsections (5) and (6) there shall be substituted— 
“(5) For the purposes of this section, a person has a relevant interest in land if— 
(a) that person is for the time being entitled to dispose of the fee simple of the land, 
whether in possession or in reversion; or 
(b) that person holds, or is entitled to the rents and profits of, the land under a lease or 
agreement, the unexpired term of which exceeds one month..”. 
(6) In section 5 (earliest date for execution of declaration)— 
(a) in subsection (1), after “publication” there shall be inserted “in a local newspaper 
circulating in the area in which the land is situated”; and 
(b) subsection (2) shall be omitted. 
(7) In section 7 (constructive notice to treat) in subsection (1)(a), the words “(as 
modified by 
section 4 of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981)” shall be omitted. 
(8) References to the 1965 Act in the Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations) 
Act 
1981shall be construed as references to that Act as applied by section 125 of the 2008 
Act to the 
compulsory acquisition of land under this Order. 
Acquisition of subsoil only 
34.—(1) The undertaker may acquire compulsorily so much of, or such rights in, the 
subsoil of 
the land referred to in article 28(1) (compulsory acquisition of land) as may be 
required for any 
purpose for which that land may be acquired under that provision instead of acquiring 
the whole 
of the land. 
(a) 1981 c. 66. Sections 2(3), 6(2) and 11(6) were amended by section 4 of, and 
paragraph 52 of Schedule 2 to, the Planning 
(Consequential Provisions) Act 1990 (c. 11). Section 15 was amended by sections 56 
and 321(1) of, and Schedules 8 and 
16 to, the Housing and Regeneration Act 2008 (c. 17). Paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 was 
amended by section 76 of, and Part 2 
of Schedule 9 to, the Housing Act 1988 (c 50); section 161(4) of, and Schedule 19 to, 
the Leasehold Reform, Housing and 
Urban Development Act 1993 (c. 28); and sections 56 and 321(1) of, and Schedule 8 
to, the Housing and Regeneration Act 
2008. Paragraph 3 of Schedule 2 was amended by section 76 of, and Schedule 9 to, 
the Housing Act 1988 and section 56 
of, and Schedule 8 to, the Housing and Regeneration Act 2008. Paragraph 2 of 
Schedule 3 was repealed by section 277 of, 
 
 
213
and Schedule 9 to, the Inheritance Tax Act 1984 (c. 51). There are other amendments 
to the 1981 Act which are not 
relevant to this Order.  
 75 
(2) Where the undertaker acquires any part of, or rights in, the subsoil of land under 
paragraph 
(1), the undertaker shall not be required to acquire an interest in any other part of the 
land. 
(3) Paragraph (2) shall not prevent article 36 (acquisition of part of certain properties) 
from 
applying where the undertaker acquires a cellar, vault, arch or other construction 
forming part of a 
house, building or manufactory. 
Acquisition of land limited to subsoil lying more than 9 metres beneath surface 
35.—(1) This article applies to the land specified in Schedule F (land of which only 
subsoil 
more than 9 metres beneath surface may be acquired). 
(2) In the case of land to which this article applies, the undertaker may only acquire 
compulsorily under article 28 (compulsory acquisition of land) so much of, or such 
rights in, the 
subsoil of the land as may be required for the purposes of the authorised project. 
(3) Where the undertaker acquires any part of, or rights in, the subsoil of the land to 
which this 
article applies, the undertaker shall not be required to acquire a greater interest in the 
land or an 
interest in any other part of it. 
(4) References in this article to the subsoil of land are references to the subsoil lying 
more than 9 
metres beneath the level of the surface of the land; and for this purpose “level of the 
surface of the 
land” means— 
(a) in the case of any land on which a building is erected, the level of the surface of 
the 
ground adjoining the building; 
(b) in the case of a watercourse or other water area, the level of the surface of the 
ground 
nearest to it which is at all times above water level; or 
(c) in any other case, ground surface level. 
Acquisition of part of certain properties 
36.—(1)This article shall apply instead of section 8(1) of the 1965 Act (other 
provisions as 
divided land) (as applied by section 125 of the 2008 Act) where— 
(a) a notice to treat is served on a person (“the owner”) under the 1965 Act (as so 
applied) in 
respect of land forming only part of a house, building or manufactory or of land 
consisting of a house with a park or garden (“the land subject to the notice to treat”); 
and 
(b) a copy of this article is served on the owner with the notice to treat. 
(2) In such a case, the owner may, within the period of 21 days beginning with the day 
on which 
 
 
214
the notice was served, serve on the undertaker a counter-notice objecting to the sale of 
the land 
subject to the notice to treat which states that the owner is willing and able to sell the 
whole (“the 
land subject to the counter-notice”). 
(3) If no such counter-notice is served within that period, the owner shall be required 
to sell the 
land subject to the notice to treat. 
(4) If such a counter-notice is served within that period, the question whether the 
owner shall be 
required to sell only the land subject to the notice to treat shall, unless the undertaker 
agrees to 
take the land subject to the counter-notice, be referred to the tribunal. 
(5) If on such a reference the tribunal determines that the land subject to the notice to 
treat can 
be taken— 
(a) without material detriment to the remainder of the land subject to the counter-
notice; or 
(b) where the land subject to the notice to treat consists of a house with a park or 
garden, 
without material detriment to the remainder of the land subject to the counter-notice 
and 
without seriously affecting the amenity and convenience of the house, 
the owner shall be required to sell the land subject to the notice to treat. 
(6) If on such a reference the tribunal determines that only part of the land subject to 
the notice 
to treat can be taken—  
 76 
(a) without material detriment to the remainder of the land subject to the counter-
notice; or 
(b) where the land subject to the notice to treat consists of a house with a park or 
garden, 
without material detriment to the remainder of the land subject to the counter-notice 
and 
without seriously affecting the amenity and convenience of the house, 
the notice to treat shall be deemed to be a notice to treat for that part. 
(7) If on such a reference the tribunal determines that— 
(a) the land subject to the notice to treat cannot be taken without material detriment to 
the 
remainder of the land subject to the counter-notice; but 
(b) the material detriment is confined to a part of the land subject to the counter-
notice, 
the notice to treat shall be deemed to be a notice to treat for the land to which the 
material 
detriment is confined in addition to the land already subject to the notice, whether or 
not the 
additional land is land which the undertaker is authorised to acquire compulsorily 
under this 
Order. 
 
 
215
(8) If the undertaker agrees to take the land subject to the counter-notice, or if the 
tribunal 
determines that— 
(a) none of the land subject to the notice to treat can be taken without material 
detriment to 
the remainder of the land subject to the counter-notice or, as the case may be, without 
material detriment to the remainder of the land subject to the counter-notice and 
without 
seriously affecting the amenity and convenience of the house; and 
(b) the material detriment is not confined to a part of the land subject to the counter-
notice, 
the notice to treat shall be deemed to be a notice to treat for the land subject to the 
counter-notice 
whether or not the whole of that land is land which the undertaker is authorised to 
acquire 
compulsorily under this Order. 
(9) Where by reason of a determination by the tribunal under this article a notice to 
treat is 
deemed to be a notice to treat for less land or more land than that specified in the 
notice, the 
undertaker may, within the period of 6 weeks beginning with the day on which the 
determination 
is made, withdraw the notice to treat; and, in that event, shall pay the owner 
compensation for any 
loss or expense occasioned to the owner by the giving and withdrawal of the notice, to 
be 
determined in case of dispute by the tribunal. 
(10) Where the owner is required under this article to sell only part of a house, 
building or 
manufactory or of land consisting of a house with a park or garden, the undertaker 
shall pay the 
owner compensation for any loss sustained by the owner due to the severance of that 
part in 
addition to the value of the interest acquired. 
Rights under or over streets 
37.—(1) The undertaker may enter on and appropriate so much of the subsoil of, or 
air-space 
over, any street within the Order limits as may be required for the purposes of the 
authorised 
project and may use the subsoil or air-space for those purposes or any other purpose 
ancillary to 
the authorised project. 
(2) Subject to paragraph (3), the undertaker may exercise any power conferred by 
paragraph (1) 
in relation to a street without being required to acquire any part of the street or any 
easement or 
right in the street. 
(3) Paragraph (2) shall not apply in relation to— 
(a) any subway or underground building; or 
 
 
216
(b) any cellar, vault, arch or other construction in, on or under a street which forms 
part of a 
building fronting onto the street. 
(4) Subject to paragraph (5), any person who is an owner or occupier of land 
appropriated under 
paragraph (1) without the undertaker acquiring any part of that person’s interest in the 
land, and 
who suffers loss as a result, shall be entitled to compensation to be determined, in case 
of dispute, 
under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.  
 77 
(5) Compensation shall not be payable under paragraph (4) to any person who is an 
undertaker 
to whom section 85 of the 1991 Act (sharing cost of necessary measures) applies in 
respect of 
measures of which the allowable costs are to be borne in accordance with that section. 
Temporary use of land for carrying out the authorised project 
38.—(1) The undertaker may, in connection with the carrying out of the authorised 
project— 
(a) enter on and take temporary possession of the land specified in columns (1) and 
(2) of 
Schedule G (land of which temporary possession may be taken) for the purpose 
specified 
in relation to that land in column (3) of that Schedule relating to the part of the 
authorised 
project specified in column (4) of that Schedule; 
(b) remove any buildings and vegetation from that land; and 
(c) construct temporary works (including the provision of means of access) and 
buildings on 
that land. 
(2) Not less than 14 days before entering on and taking temporary possession of land 
under this 
article the undertaker shall serve notice of the intended entry on the owners and 
occupiers of the 
land. 
(3) The undertaker may not, without the agreement of the owners of the land, remain 
in 
possession of any land under this article after the end of the period of one year 
beginning with the 
date of completion of the part of the authorised project specified in relation to that 
land in column 
(4) of Schedule G. 
(4) Before giving up possession of land of which temporary possession has been taken 
under 
this article, the undertaker shall remove all temporary works and restore the land to 
the reasonable 
satisfaction of the owners of the land; but the undertaker shall not be required to 
replace a building 
removed under this article. 
 
 
217
(5) The undertaker shall pay compensation to the owners and occupiers of land of 
which 
temporary possession is taken under this article for any loss or damage arising from 
the exercise in 
relation to the land of the provisions of this article. 
(6) Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (5), or 
as to the 
amount of the compensation, shall be determined under Part 1 of the 1961 Act. 
(7) Nothing in this article shall affect any liability to pay compensation under section 
10(2) of 
the 1965 Act (further provisions as to compensation for injurious affection) or under 
any other 
enactment in respect of loss or damage arising from the carrying out of the authorised 
project, 
other than loss or damage for which compensation is payable under paragraph (5). 
(8) The undertaker may not compulsorily acquire under this Order the land referred to 
in 
paragraph (1) except that the undertaker shall not be precluded from— 
(a) acquiring new rights over any part of that land under article 31 (compulsory 
acquisition 
of rights); or 
(b) acquiring any part of the subsoil (or rights in the subsoil) of that land under article 
34 
(acquisition of subsoil only) or in accordance with article 35 (acquisition of land 
limited 
to subsoil lying more than 9 metres beneath surface). 
(9) Where the undertaker takes possession of land under this article, the undertaker 
shall not be 
required to acquire the land or any interest in it. 
(10) Section 13 of the 1965 Act (refusal to give possession to acquiring authority) 
shall apply to 
the temporary use of land pursuant to this article to the same extent as it applies to the 
compulsory 
acquisition of land under this Order by virtue of section 125 of the 2008 Act 
(application of 
compulsory acquisition provisions). 
Temporary use of land for maintaining authorised project 
39.—(1) Subject to paragraph (2), at any time during the maintenance period relating 
to any part 
of the authorised project, the undertaker may—  
 78 
(a) enter on and take temporary possession of any land within the Order limits if such 
possession is reasonably required for the purpose of maintaining the authorised 
project; 
and 
(b) construct such temporary works (including the provision of means of access) and 
buildings on the land as may be reasonably necessary for that purpose. 
(2) Paragraph (1) shall not authorise the undertaker to take temporary possession of— 
(a) any house or garden belonging to a house; or 
(b) any building (other than a house) if it is for the time being occupied. 
 
 
218
(3) Not less than 28 days before entering on and taking temporary possession of land 
under this 
article the undertaker shall serve notice of the intended entry on the owners and 
occupiers of the 
land. 
(4) The undertaker may only remain in possession of land under this article for so 
long as may 
be reasonably necessary to carry out the maintenance of the part of the authorised 
project for 
which possession of the land was taken. 
(5) Before giving up possession of land of which temporary possession has been taken 
under 
this article, the undertaker shall remove all temporary works and restore the land to 
the reasonable 
satisfaction of the owners of the land. 
(6) The undertaker shall pay compensation to the owners and occupiers of land of 
which 
temporary possession is taken under this article for any loss or damage arising from 
the exercise in 
relation to the land of the provisions of this article. 
(7) Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (6), or 
as to the 
amount of the compensation, shall be determined under Part 1 of the 1961 Act. 
(8) Nothing in this article shall affect any liability to pay compensation under section 
10(2) of 
the 1965 Act (further provisions as to compensation for injurious affection) or under 
any other 
enactment in respect of loss or damage arising from the maintenance of the authorised 
project, 
other than loss or damage for which compensation is payable under paragraph (6). 
(9) Where the undertaker takes possession of land under this article, the undertaker 
shall not be 
required to acquire the land or any interest in it. 
(10) Section 13 of the 1965 Act (refusal to give possession to acquiring authority) 
shall apply to 
the temporary use of land pursuant to this article to the same extent as it applies to the 
compulsory 
acquisition of land under this Order by virtue of section 125 of the 2008 Act 
(application of 
compulsory acquisition provisions). 
(11) In this article “the maintenance period”, in relation to any part of the authorised 
project, 
means the period of 5 years beginning with the date on which that part of the 
authorised project is 
first opened for use. 
Special category land 
40.—(1) The special category land shall not vest in the undertaker until the undertaker 
has 
acquired the replacement land and [insert name of relevant body] has certified that a 
scheme for 
 
 
219
the provision of the replacement land as [common/open space/fuel or field garden 
allotment] has 
been implemented to its satisfaction. 
(2) On the requirements of paragraph (1) being satisfied, the replacement land shall 
vest in 
[insert name of relevant body] subject to the same rights, trusts and incidents as 
attached to the 
special category land; and the special category land shall be discharged from all 
rights, trusts and 
incidents to which it was previously subject. 
(3) In this article— 
“the special category land” means the land identified as forming part of a common, 
open 
space, or fuel or field garden allotment in the book of reference and on the plan 
entitled 
“Special Category Land Plan” attached to the land plan, which may be acquired 
compulsorily 
under this Order and for which replacement land is to be provided; and  
 79 
“the replacement land” means the land identified in the book of reference and on the 
plan 
entitled “Replacement Land Plan” attached to the land plan. 
Statutory undertakers 
41. The undertaker may— 
(a) acquire compulsorily the land belonging to statutory undertakers shown on the 
[insert 
name] plan within the limits of the land to be acquired and described in the book of 
reference; 
(b) extinguish the rights of, remove or reposition the apparatus belonging to statutory 
undertakers shown on the [insert name] plan and described in the book of reference; 
and 
(c) acquire compulsorily the new rights over land belonging to statutory undertakers 
shown 
on the [insert name] plan and described in the book of reference. 
Apparatus and rights of statutory undertakers in stopped up streets 
42.—(1) Where a street is stopped up under article 11 (stopping up of streets) any 
statutory 
utility whose apparatus is under, in, on, along or across the street shall have the same 
powers and 
rights in respect of that apparatus, subject to the provisions of this article, as if this 
Order had not 
been made. 
(2) Where a street is stopped up under article 11 any statutory utility whose apparatus 
is under, 
in, on, over, along or across the street may, and if reasonably requested to do so by the 
undertaker 
shall— 
(a) remove the apparatus and place it or other apparatus provided in substitution for it 
in such 
other position as the utility may reasonably determine and have power to place it; or 
 
 
220
(b) provide other apparatus in substitution for the existing apparatus and place it in 
such 
position as described in sub-paragraph (a). 
(3) Subject to the following provisions of this article, the undertaker shall pay to any 
statutory 
utility an amount equal to the cost reasonably incurred by the utility in or in 
connection with— 
(a) the execution of the relocation works required in consequence of the stopping up 
of the 
street; and 
(b) the doing of any other work or thing rendered necessary by the execution of the 
relocation 
works. 
(4) If in the course of the execution of relocation works under paragraph (2)— 
(a) apparatus of a better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is placed in 
(a) apparatus of better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is placed in substitution 
for existing apparatus of worse type, of smaller capacity or of smaller dimensions; or 
(b) apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing 
apparatus) is 
placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing apparatus was, 
and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions or the 
placing of 
apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed by the undertaker, or, in 
default of 
agreement, is not determined by arbitration to be necessary, then, if it involves cost in 
the 
execution of the relocation works exceeding that which would have been involved if 
the apparatus 
placed had been of the existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at the existing depth, 
as the case 
may be, the amount which, apart from this paragraph, would be payable to the 
statutory utility by 
virtue of paragraph (3) shall be reduced by the amount of that excess. 
(b) apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing apparatus) is 
placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing apparatus was, and the placing 
of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions or the placing of apparatus at that 
depth, as the case may be, is not agreed by the undertaker or, in default of agreement, is not 
determined by arbitration in accordance with article 43 of the Order to be necessary, then, if 
such placing involves cost in the construction of works under this Part of this Schedule 
exceeding that which would have been involved if the apparatus placed had been of the 
existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at the existing depth, as the case may be, the amount 
which apart from this sub–paragraph would be payable to WPD by virtue of sub–paragraph 
(1) is to be reduced by the amount of that excess. 
(4) (5) For the purposes of paragraph sub–paragraph (4)—3)— 
(a) an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing apparatus is not to be 
treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions than those of the existing apparatus; 
and 
(a) an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing apparatus 
shall 
not be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions than those of the 
existing 
 
 
221
apparatus; and 
(b) where the provision of a joint in a cable is agreed, or is determined to be 
necessary, the 
(b) consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a manhole shall where the provision of a 
joint in a cable is agreed, or is determined to be necessary, the consequential provision of a 
jointing chamber or of a manhole is to be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so 
determined. 
 80 
(6) An amount which, apart from this paragraph, would be payable to a statutory 
utility in 
respect of works by virtue of paragraph (3) (and having regard, where relevant, to 
paragraph (4)) 
(5) shallAn amount which apart from this sub–paragraph would be payable to WPD  
, if the works include the placing of apparatus provided in substitution for apparatus 
placedmore than 7 years and 6 months earlier so as to confer on the utility any 
financial benefit by 
deferment of the time for renewal of the apparatus in the ordinary course, be reduced 
by the 
amount which represents that benefit. 
(7) Paragraphs (3) to (6) shall not apply where the authorised project constitutes major 
highway 
works, major bridge works or major transport works for the purposes of Part 3 of the 
1991 Act, 
but instead— 
(a) the allowable costs of the relocation works shall be determined in accordance with 
section 
85 of that Act (sharing of cost of necessary measures) and any regulations for the time 
being having effect under that section; and 
(b) the allowable costs shall be borne by the undertaker and the statutory utility in 
such 
proportions as may be prescribed by any such regulations. 
(8) In this article— 
“apparatus” has the same meaning as in Part 3 of the 1991 Act; 
“relocation works” means work executed, or apparatus provided, under paragraph (2); 
and 
“statutory utility” means a statutory undertaker for the purposes of the 1980 Act or a 
public 
communications provider as defined in section 151(1) of the Communications Act 
2003(a). 
Recovery of costs of new connections 
43.—(1) Where any apparatus of a public utility undertaker or of a public 
communications 
provider is removed under article 41 (statutory undertakers) any person who is the 
owner or 
occupier of premises to which a supply was given from that apparatus shall be entitled 
to recover 
from the undertaker compensation in respect of expenditure reasonably incurred by 
that person, in 
consequence of the removal, for the purpose of effecting a connection between the 
premises and 
 
 
222
any other apparatus from which a supply is given. 
(2) Paragraph (1) shall not apply in the case of the removal of a public sewer but 
where such a 
sewer is removed under article 41, any person who is— 
(a) the owner or occupier of premises the drains of which communicated with that 
sewer; or 
(b) the owner of a private sewer which communicated with that sewer, 
shall be entitled to recover from the undertaker compensation in respect of 
expenditure reasonably 
incurred by that person, in consequence of the removal, for the purpose of making the 
drain or 
sewer belonging to that person communicate with any other public sewer or with a 
private 
sewerage disposal plant. 
(3) This article shall not have effect in relation to apparatus to which article 42 
(apparatus and 
rights of statutory undertakers in stopped-up streets) or Part 3 of the 1991 Act applies. 
(4) In this article— 
“public communications provider” has the same meaning as in section 151(1) of the 
Communications Act 2003; and 
“public utility undertaker” has the same meaning as in the 1980 Act. 
(a) 2003 c.21. There are amendments to this Act which are not relevant to this Order.  
 81 
Miscellaneous and general 
Deemed consent under section 34 of the Coast Protection Act 1949 
44. The undertaker is granted deemed consent under section 34 of the Coast 
Protection Act 
1949(a) to carry out the works described in Schedule H, subject to the requirements 
set out in that 
Schedule. 
Deemed licence under Part 2 of the Food and Environment Protection Act 1985 
45. The undertaker is granted a deemed licence under Part 2 of the Food and 
Environment 
Protection Act 1985(b) to carry out the works described in Schedule I, subject to the 
requirements 
set out in that Schedule. 
Felling or lopping of trees 
46.—(1) The undertaker may fell or lop any tree or shrub near any part of the 
authorised project, 
or cut back its roots, if it reasonably believes it to be necessary to do so to prevent the 
tree or 
shrub— 
(a) from obstructing or interfering with the construction, maintenance or operation of 
the 
authorised project or any apparatus used in connection with the authorised project; or 
(b) from constituting a danger to passengers or other persons using the authorised 
project. 
(2) In carrying out any activity authorised by paragraph (1), the undertaker shall do no 
unnecessary damage to any tree or shrub and shall pay compensation to any person 
for any loss or 
 
 
223
damage arising from such activity. 
(3) Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (2), or 
as to the 
amount of compensation, shall be determined under Part 1 of the 1961 Act. 
Trees subject to tree preservation orders 
47.—(1) The undertaker may fell or lop any tree described in Schedule J and 
identified on the 
[insert name] plan, or cut back its roots if it reasonably believes it to be necessary in 
order to do so 
to prevent the tree or shrub— 
(a) from obstructing or interfering with the construction, maintenance or operation of 
the 
authorised project or any apparatus used in connection with the authorised project; or 
(b) from constituting a danger to passengers or other persons using the authorised 
project. 
(2) In carrying out any activity authorised by paragraph (1)— 
(a) the undertaker shall do no unnecessary damage to any tree or shrub and shall pay 
compensation to any person for any loss or damage arising from such activity; and 
(b) the duty contained in section 206(1) of the 1990 Act (replacement of trees) shall 
not 
apply. 
(3) The authority given by paragraph (1) shall constitute a deemed consent under the 
relevant 
tree preservation order. 
(4) Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (2), or 
as to the 
amount of compensation, shall be determined under Part 1 of the 1961 Act. 
(a) 1949 c.74. Section 34 has been amended by section 36 of the Merchant Shipping 
Act 1988 (c.12). There are other 
amendments to the 1949 Act which are not relevant to this Order. 
(b) 1985 c.48. Sections 5 and 6 in Part 2 have been amended by sections 146(2) and 
162 of, and Part 8 of Schedule 16 to, the 
Environmental Protection Act 1990 (c. 43). There are other amendments to the 1985 
Act which are not relevant to this 
Order.  
 82 
Railway and navigation undertakingsin respect of works by virtue of sub–paragraph (1) must, if 
the works include the placing of apparatus provided in substitution for apparatus placed more than 
7 years and 6 months earlier so as to confer on WPD any financial benefit by deferment of the 
time for renewal of the apparatus in the ordinary course, be reduced by the amount which 
represents that benefit. 
39. The undertaker will indemnify WPD and keep them indemnified in respect of any losses, 
costs, claims or liabilities arising out of, or as a consequence of anything done under this Part of 
this Schedule. 
 
 
224
PART 5 
FOR THE PROTECTION OF DWR CYMRU CYFYNGEDIG 
Application 
40.48.—(1) Subject to  For the protection of Dwr Cymru Cyfyngedig referred to in this Part 5 
of Schedule 11, the following provisions of this article, the undertaker may not under articlewill, 
unless otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and DCC, have effect. 
Interpretation 
41. In this Part of this Schedule— 
“accessories” has the same meaning as that set out in section 219 of the Water Industry Act 
1991(a) (general interpretation) but also includes any feature or aspect of a design that is 
intended to receive or facilitate the receipt of rainwater or surface water and which is part of a 
sustainable drainage system; 
“clearance area” means the area of land— 
(a) within 3 metres either side of the centre line of any public sewer or public water main that 
is less than 300mm in diameter; 
(b) within 6 metres either side of a public sewer or public water main where the public sewer 
or public water main is between 300mm and 600mm in diameter; or 
(c) within 9 metres either side of the centre line of a rising main; 
“DCC” means Dŵr Cymru Cyfyngedig, a limited company registered in Wales under 
Company No. 2366777 and having its registered office at Pentwyn Road, Nelson, Treharris, 
Mid Glamorgan CF46 6LY or its properly authorised agents or sub–contractors; 
“DCC apparatus” means all apparatus or accessories vested in or belonging to DCC for the 
purpose of carrying on its statutory undertaking including reservoirs, water treatment works 
and waste water treatment works; 
“draft specification” means a detailed plan, cross–section and description of the works to be 
prepared by the undertaker (including, without limitation, a method statement and risk 
assessment setting out the intention in respect of the works, construction methods and 
programmes, position of the affected DCC apparatus and intended works and a statement that 
to the best of the undertaker’s knowledge, and having used all reasonable care and skill to plan 
the works, the works will not cause damage to the DCC apparatus); 
“functions” has the same meaning as in section 219 of the Water Industry Act 1991 and 
includes powers and duties; 
“in” in a context referring to DCC apparatus in land includes a reference to DCC apparatus 
under, over or upon land; 
“sustainable drainage system” means any structure designed to receive rainwater and other 
surface water which structure is to include any feature or aspect of design that is intended to 
receive or facilitate the receipt of rainwater except a public sewer or a natural watercourse; 
“WIA 1991” means the Water Industry Act 1991(b)(as amended); 
                                                                                                                                       
(a) 1991 c.56. Section 219 was amended by paragraph 110 of Schedule 17 of the Communications Act 2003 
(b) 1991 c.56. 
 
 
225
“works” means, excluding any work or works to be undertaken by DCC, any works forming 
part of the authorised development in, on, over or under any land purchased, leased, held, or 
used under this Order that are near to, or will or may in any way affect any DCC apparatus 
together with all ancillary actions relating hereto; and 
for the avoidance of doubt, all other terms are as defined in article 2 (interpretation) of this 
Order. 
No acquisition or extinguishment except by agreement 
42.—(1) Subject to sub–paragraph (2), regardless of any provision in this Order or anything 
shown on the land plans or contained in the book of reference, the undertaker must not acquire 
any DCC apparatus or its accessories or override or extinguish any easement or other interest of 
DCC or acquire any land or other interest of DCC identified in the book of reference or create 
any new rights over the same otherwise than by agreement with DCC in accordance with the 
provisions of this Schedule. 
(2) Sub–paragraph (1) does not apply to the powers conferred on the undertaker by this Order to 
interfere temporarily with DCC’s rights to access DCC apparatus or accessories but subject always 
to each sub–paragraph of paragraphs 46 and 47 of this Part and to the undertaker giving DCC 28 
days notice of such interference. 
Precedence of the WIA 1991 
43.—(1) Regardless of any provision of this Order and this Part of this Schedule the undertaker 
must comply fully with all provisions of the WIA 1991 in relation to any use of, any connection 
with or any actions or omissions which in any way affect the DCC apparatus and nothing in this 
Order releases the undertaker from the requirement to comply with the provisions of the WIA 
1991 in relation to any use of, any connection with or any actions or omissions which in any way 
affect the DCC apparatus, including without limitation— 
(a) sections 41–44 of the WIA 1991 in respect of water main requisitions; 
(b) section 45 of the WIA 1991 in respect of any connections to a water main; 
(c) sections 98–101 of the WIA 1991 in respect of sewer requisitions; 
(d) section 102 of the WIA 1991 in respect of the adoption of sewers and disposal works; 
(e) section 104 of the WIA 1991 in respect of the adoption of any sewers, drains or sewage 
disposal works as part of the development; 
(f) sections 106 to 109 of the WIA 1991 (inclusive) in respect of any connections to public 
sewers; 
(g) section 111 of the WIA 1991 in respect of the restrictions on use of public sewers; 
(h) sections 158 and 159 of the WIA 1991 in respect of statutory rights of access to DCC 
apparatus; 
(i) section 174 of the WIA 1991 in respect of offences of interference with works etc; 
(j) section 178 of the WIA 1991 in respect of obstruction of sewerage works etc; 
(k) section 185 of the WIA 1991 in respect of the removal, diversion or alteration of DCC 
apparatus. 
(2) The arbitration provisions at article 43, or specified in this Part of Schedule 11 do not apply 
where DCC uses a warrant of entry in accordance with the provisions of the WIA 1991. 
Protection of DCC apparatus 
44.—(1) Not less than 28 days before starting the execution of any works that are within the 
clearance area or will, or could reasonably foreseeably affect, any DCC apparatus the removal or 
alteration of which has not been required by the undertaker under paragraph 43(1)(k), the 
undertaker must submit to DCC written notice together with a draft specification. 
 
 
226
(2) DCC must examine the draft specification submitted under sub–paragraph (1) and give its 
written consent or proposed amendments (each not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) to the 
draft specification (including the proposed commencement date and anticipated completion date) 
within 28 days from the date of receipt (and in the event of amendments the process in this sub–
paragraph (2) must be repeated where those amendments are not accepted). For the avoidance of 
doubt, DCC’s proposed amendments may include such reasonable requirements for the alteration 
(including but not limited to the extension of DCC apparatus) or otherwise for the protection of 
DCC apparatus, or for securing access to it. 
(3) Once approved under sub–paragraph (2), the draft specification is to be the specification and 
the works must be executed only in accordance with the specification and such reasonable 
requirements as may be made in accordance with sub–paragraph (2) and DCC is entitled to watch 
and inspect the execution of those works. 
(4) Nothing in this paragraph 44 precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time or from 
time to time, but in no case less than 28 days before commencing the execution of any works, a 
draft specification instead of the draft specification previously submitted, and having done so the 
provisions of this paragraph 44 apply to and in respect of the new draft specification. 
(5) The undertaker is not required to comply with sub–paragraph (1) in a case of emergency 
provided it has complied with paragraph 45 save that the undertaker must comply with sub–
paragraphs (1) and (3) above in so far as is reasonably practicable in the circumstances. 
(6) DCC may opt to carry out any temporary and/or protective works specified under sub–
paragraph (2) to DCC apparatus, and if DCC opts to do so it must— 
(a) agree the scope and timings of the works with the undertaker (and the undertaker must not 
unreasonably withhold or delay its agreement to the same); 
(b) provide an invoice together with supporting evidence of the estimated costs of the works on 
the basis of which it must agree with the undertaker the reasonable costs of the works to be 
met by the undertaker; 
(c) following agreement and payment of the costs, DCC must as soon as reasonably practicable 
carry out and complete the works; and 
(d) notify the undertaker immediately in writing upon completion of the temporary and/or 
protective works. 
(7) Only those contractors that satisfy DCC’s reasonable health & safety requirements are 
permitted to make openings into and/or connections with and/or carry out any works on or within 
any public sewer or drain vested in DCC unless otherwise agreed with DCC. 
(8) Only DCC is permitted to make openings into and/or connections with and/or carry out any 
works on or within any public water main vested in DCC unless otherwise agreed with DCC. 
(9) Where DCC apparatus will be affected by the works the undertaker must determine the exact 
location of DCC apparatus prior to any works being carried out by the undertaker and the 
undertaker should contact DCC where trial holes are required. 
(10) Any affected DCC apparatus which is no longer required by DCC but is not removed must 
be transferred to the undertaker by way of a deed of transfer from DCC at the undertaker’s 
expense and on such terms as DCC reasonably requires. 
Suspension of works 
45.—(1) DCC is entitled to instruct the undertaker to suspend the works if in DCC’s 
reasonable opinion, the actions of the undertaker, or those of its contractor(s) or subcontractor(s) 
in carrying out the works, have caused damage to any DCC apparatus and/or are likely to cause 
or result in damage to any DCC apparatus and/or have caused or are likely to cause damage to 
the environment arising as a result of damage to DCC apparatus. In the event of such instruction 
being given by DCC— 
(a) the undertaker must procure that it and its contractor(s) and subcontractor(s) are to forthwith 
suspend or cease the works having due regard to health and safety factors, and discuss and 
agree with DCC the remedial actions required prior to resuming the works; 
 
 
227
(b) the undertaker and DCC must act reasonably and without delay in discussing and agreeing 
any remedial actions required prior to resuming the works; 
(c) DCC must submit to the undertaker within 3 days following the suspension, a written notice 
specifying the reasons for suspending the works; 
(d) in the event that DCC fails to supply the written notice within 3 days of suspension, DCC’s 
instruction to suspend the works will be void and the undertaker will be entitled to 
recommence the works; and 
(e) DCC must commence, carry out and complete any remedial works pursuant to sub–paragraph 
(1), as soon as reasonably practicable and DCC must give the undertaker notice immediately 
upon completion of such remedial works and on receipt of such notice the undertaker will be 
entitled to resume the works. 
(2) DCC is entitled to reclaim all reasonable costs of all remedial works undertaken in 
accordance with this paragraph 45. 
(3) DCC must use its reasonable endeavours to minimise any costs, expenses, loss, demands and 
penalties to which this paragraph 45 applies. If requested to do so by the undertaker, DCC must 
provide an explanation of how the claim has been minimised. The undertaker is only liable under 
this paragraph 45 for claims reasonably incurred by DCC. 
46.—(1) In the event that either the undertaker or DCC (for the purpose of this paragraph 46 
“the party” or together “the parties”) wishes to take any action which would impact on the ability 
of the undertaker to carry out the authorised development or DCC to carry out its statutory 
functions, the parties must use reasonable endeavours to cooperate with one another in order to 
align work streams so to minimise or avoid disruption to the other party’s works. In respect of 
the reference to ‘work’ and ‘works’ in this sub–paragraph (1), to the extent that this refers to 
‘work’ or ‘works’ to be undertaken by DCC, the definition of works in paragraph 41 does not 
apply. 
(2) Subject to paragraph 47, differences or disputes arising between the undertaker and DCC 
under this Part of Schedule 11 must, unless otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker 
and DCC, be determined by arbitration in accordance with article 43 (arbitration) of the Order. 
Emergency Works 
47.—(1) The undertaker is permitted to carry out emergency works provided that it first 
notifies DCC of the proposed emergency works. For the avoidance of doubt, in the event that 
DCC suffers any loss, cost or damage as a result of the emergency action taken by the undertaker 
without prior notification in accordance with this sub paragraph the indemnity in paragraph 48 is 
to apply. 
(2) DCC must at all times be permitted to carry out any emergency works in relation to its DCC 
apparatus within the Order limits in accordance with Part II, Schedule 6 WIA 1991 (Other rights 
of entry and related powers). 
(3) Emergency works required in order for DCC to fulfil its statutory functions under sub–
paragraph (2) are to take precedence over works to be carried out by the undertaker and, in such 
circumstances, the undertaker must reschedule its works accordingly. 
(4) In respect of the reference to ‘work’ and ‘works’ in this paragraph 47, to the extent that is 
‘work’ or ‘works’ to be undertaken by DCC, the definition of works in paragraph 41 of this Part 
does not apply. 
Damage to DCC apparatus 
48.—(1) Subject to sub–paragraphs (3), (4), (6) and (7), the undertaker must indemnify and 
hold harmless DCC against all claims demands costs damages expenses penalties and losses 
which DCC sustains or becomes liable for in consequence of works under paragraph 44(1) and 
emergency works under paragraph 47 (but only where such emergency works are carried out by 
the undertaker without prior notification to DCC in accordance with paragraph 47) to this Part in 
respect of— 
 
 
228
(a) the commencement, carrying out, execution or retention of the works or any breach of this 
Part relating to the performance of the works and must pay compensation for loss, damage or 
injury caused by the actions or default of the undertaker, its contractors, subcontractors, 
licencees, agents and invitees relating to the performance of the works; and 
(b) damage to the environment caused by the undertaker during any works including but not 
limited to pollution and/or contamination; and 
(c) any breach of any stipulation or otherwise of any deeds of grant (or any renewal of any of the 
deeds of grant made on substantially the same terms provided that DCC has supplied the 
undertaker with a copy of the new document) arising from the works. 
(2) Subject to sub–paragraphs (3), (4), (6) and (7), the undertaker shall bear and pay the costs 
reasonably incurred by DCC in making good damage to DCC apparatus or restoring an 
interruption in the supply provided by DCC. 
(3) Nothing in sub–paragraph (1) shall impose any liability on the undertaker with respect to any 
damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to the act, neglect or default of DCC, its 
officers, servants, contractors or agents. 
(4) DCC shall give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such claim or demand and no 
settlement or compromise is to be made without the consent of the undertaker. 
(5) Neither the undertaker, nor any of its officers, employees or agents in any circumstances 
whatsoever be liable for any indirect or consequential loss. 
(6) Nothing in this Part affects the provisions of any enactment or agreement regulating the 
relations between the undertaker and DCC in respect of any DCC apparatus laid or erected in land 
belonging to the undertaker on the date on which the Order is made. 
(7) DCC must use its reasonable endeavours to mitigate in whole or in part and to minimise any 
costs, expenses, loss, demands, and penalties to which the indemnity under this paragraph 48 
applies. If requested to do so by the undertaker, DCC must provide an explanation of how the 
claim has been minimised. The undertaker is only liable under this paragraph 48 for claims 
reasonably incurred by DCC. 
 
 
229
PART 6 
FOR THE PROTECTION OF ABERGELLI SOLAR LIMITED 
Application 
49. For the protection of the solar operator as referred to in this Part 6 of Schedule 11, the 
following provisions will, unless otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and the 
solar operator, have effect. 
Interpretation 
50. In this Part of this Schedule— 
“apparatus" means any cables or other apparatus belonging to or maintained by the solar operator 
for the purposes of electricity generation and for the export of electricity pursuant to the solar farm 
permission (including but not limited to all reasonably necessary protective equipment for such 
electricity generation and export of electricity such as security devices and fencing); 
“in” in a context referring to apparatus in land, includes a reference to apparatus under, over or 
upon land; 
“solar farm permission” means full planning permission granted on [XXX] (ref XX); 
“solar farm site” means the site on which planning permission was granted by the solar farm 
permission; 
“solar operator” means Abergelli Solar Limited being the operator of the solar farm on the solar 
farm site which has consent pursuant to the solar farm permission; and 
“specified work” means so much of any of the works comprised in the authorised development or 
works required to facilitate or which are incidental to the authorised development (including, but 
without limitation, the gas pipeline) which are in, on or under any land purchased, leased, held, 
appropriated or used under this Order that are near to, or will or may affect, any apparatus. 
Acquisition of land 
51. Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on the land plans or contained 
in the book of reference to the Order the undertaker must not acquire any apparatus or extinguish 
any easement or other interest of the solar operator otherwise than by agreement (such agreement 
not to be unreasonably withheld). 
Access 
52. If in consequence of the agreement reached in accordance with paragraph 51 or the powers 
granted under this Order the access to any apparatus is materially obstructed, the undertaker shall 
provide such alternative means of access to such apparatus as will enable the solar operator to 
maintain or use the apparatus no less effectively than was possible before such obstruction. 
Apparatus in streets subject to temporary prohibition or restriction 
53. Regardless of the temporary prohibition or restriction of use of streets under the powers 
conferred by article 11 (temporary prohibition or restriction of use of streets), the solar operator 
is at liberty at all times to take all necessary access across any such street and to execute and do 
all such works and things in, upon or under any such street as may be reasonably necessary or 
desirable to enable it to maintain any apparatus which at the time of the prohibition or restriction 
was in that street. 
 
 
230
Specified Works 
54.—(1) Not less than 28 days before starting the execution of any specified work in, on or 
under any land purchased, leased, held, appropriated or used under this Order that are within [X] 
metres of any apparatus, or will or may affect any apparatus, the undertaker must submit to the 
solar operator a plan, section and description of the specified works to be executed. 
(2) Those specified works must be executed only in accordance with the plan, section and 
description submitted under sub–paragraph (1) and in accordance with such reasonable 
requirements as may be made in accordance with sub–paragraph (3) by the solar operator for the 
alteration or otherwise for the protection of the apparatus, or for securing access to it, and the solar 
operator is entitled to watch and inspect the execution of those specified works. 
(3) Any requirements made by the solar operator under sub–paragraph (2) must be made within 
a period of 21 days beginning with the date on which a plan, section and description under sub–
paragraph (1) are submitted to it. 
(4) Nothing in this paragraph precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time or from time 
to time, but in no case less than 28 days before commencing the execution of any specified works, 
a new plan, section and description instead of the plan, section and description previously 
submitted, and having done so the provisions of this paragraph apply to and in respect of the new 
plan, section and description. 
(5) The undertaker is not required to comply with sub–paragraph (1) in a case of emergency but 
in that case it must give to the solar operator notice as soon as is reasonably practicable and a plan, 
section and description of those specified works as soon as reasonably practicable subsequently 
and must comply with sub–paragraph (2) in so far as is reasonably practicable in the 
circumstances. 
Expenses and costs 
55. The undertaker must repay to the solar operator the reasonable expenses incurred by the 
solar operator in, or in connection with, the inspection, alteration or protection of any apparatus 
which may be required in consequence of the execution of any specified work. 
56.—(1) Subject to sub–paragraphs (2) and (3), if by reason or in consequence of the 
construction of any specified works, any damage is caused to any apparatus, or there is any 
interruption in any service provided, or in the supply of any goods, by the solar operator, the 
undertaker must— 
(a) bear and pay the cost reasonably incurred by the solar operator in making good such damage 
or restoring the supply; and 
(b) make reasonable compensation to the solar operator for any other expenses, loss, damages, 
penalty or costs incurred by the solar operator, 
by reason or in consequence of any such damage or interruption. 
(2) Nothing in sub–paragraph (1) imposes any liability on the undertaker with respect to any 
damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to the act, neglect or default of the solar 
operator, its officers, servants, contractors or agents. 
(3) The solar operator must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such claim or demand 
and no settlement or compromise is to be made without the consent of the undertaker which, if it 
withholds such consent, has the sole conduct of any settlement or compromise or of any 
proceedings necessary to resist the claim or demand. 
(4) The solar operator must use its reasonable endeavours to mitigate in whole or in part and to 
minimise any costs, expenses, loss, demands, and penalties to which this paragraph 56 applies. If 
requested to do so by the undertaker, the solar operator shall provide an explanation of how the 
claim has been minimised. The undertaker shall only be liable under this paragraph 56 for claims 
reasonably incurred by the solar operator. 
 
 
231
Arbitration 
57. Any difference or dispute arising between the undertaker and the solar operator under this 
Part of this Schedule shall, unless otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and the 
solar operator, be determined by arbitration in accordance with article 43 (arbitration). 
Nothing in this part of this Schedule affects the provisions of any enactment or agreement 
regulating the relations between the undertaker and the solar operator in respect of any apparatus 
laid or erected in land belonging to the undertaker on the date on which this Order is made. 
 
 
232
PART 7 
FOR THE PROTECTION OF WALES AND WEST UTILITIES LIMITED 
Application 
58. For the protection of the protected person referred to in this part 7 of Schedule 11 the 
following provisions shall, unless otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and the 
protected person, have effect. 
Interpretation 
59. In this Part of this Schedule— 
“apparatus” means in the case of the protected person, pipes or other apparatus belonging to or 
maintained by a gas transporter for the purposes of gas supply; 
“authorised development” has the same meaning as in Schedule 1 (authorised development) of this 
Order; 
“functions” includes powers and duties; 
“in” in a context referring to apparatus in land includes a reference to apparatus under, over, 
across, along or upon such land; 
“maintain” and “maintenance” shall have the same meaning as in article 2 (interpretation); 
“plan” or “plans” include all designs, drawings, specifications, method statements, soil reports, 
programmes, calculations, risk assessments and other documents that are reasonably necessary 
properly and sufficiently to describe and assess the works to be executed; 
“protected person” means Wales and West Utilities Limited, a limited company registered under 
Company No 05046791 and having its registered office at Wales & West House, Spooner Close 
Coedkernew, Newport, South Wales NP10 8FZ, being a gas transporter within the meaning of Part 
1 of the Gas Act 1986; and 
Except for paragraphs 62 (retained apparatus: Protection: Protected Persons) and 63 (expenses) 
this Schedule does not apply to apparatus in respect of which the relations between the undertaker 
and the protected person are regulated by the provisions of Part 3 of the 1991 Act. 
Apparatus of the protected person in streets subject to temporary prohibition or restriction 
60. Notwithstanding the temporary prohibition or restriction under the powers of article 11 
(temporary prohibition or restriction of use of streets), the protected person shall be at liberty at 
all times to take all necessary access across any such street and/or to execute and do all such 
works and things in, upon or under any such street as may be reasonably necessary or desirable 
to enable it to maintain any apparatus which at the time of the prohibition or restriction was in 
that street. 
Acquisition of Land 
61. Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on the land plans or contained 
in the book of reference to the Order, the undertaker must not acquire any land interest or 
apparatus or override any easement or other interest of the protected person otherwise than by 
agreement (such agreement not to be unreasonably withheld). 
Retained apparatus: Protection: Protected Persons 
62.—(1) Not less than 56 days before the commencement of any authorised development 
authorised by this Order that involves activities or works that are within [x] metres of any 
apparatus the undertaker must submit to the protected person in question a plan. 
 
 
233
(2) In relation to works which will or may be situated on, over, under or within 15 metres 
measured in any direction of any apparatus, or (wherever situated) impose any load directly upon 
any apparatus or involve embankment works within 15 metres of any apparatus, the plan to be 
submitted to the protected person under sub–paragraph (1) shall be detailed including a method 
statement and describing— 
(a) the exact position of the works; 
(b) the level at which these are proposed to be constructed or renewed; 
(c) the manner of their construction or renewal including details of excavation, positioning of 
plant etc.; 
(d) the position of all apparatus; 
(e) by way of detailed drawings, every alteration proposed to be made to or close to any such 
apparatus; and 
(f) intended maintenance regimes. 
(3) The undertaker must not commence any works to which sub–paragraph (2) applies until the 
protected person has given written approval of the plan so submitted. 
(4) Any approval of the protected person required under sub–paragraph (3)— 
(a) may be given subject to reasonable conditions for any purpose mentioned in sub–paragraph 
(5) or (7); 
(b) must not be unreasonably withheld. 
(5) In relation to a work to which sub–paragraph (1) and (2) applies, the protected person may 
require such modifications to be made to the plans as may be reasonably necessary for the purpose 
of securing its system against interference or risk of damage or for the purpose of providing or 
securing proper and convenient means of access to any apparatus. 
(6) Works executed under this Order must be executed only in accordance with the plan, 
submitted under sub–paragraph (1), as amended from time to time by agreement between the 
undertaker and the protected person and in accordance with such reasonable requirements as may 
be made in accordance with sub–paragraph (5) or (7) by the protected person for the protection of 
the apparatus, for securing access to the apparatus, and the protected person shall be entitled to 
watch and inspect the execution of this works. 
(7) Where protected persons require any protective works to be carried out either themselves or 
by the undertaker (whether of a temporary or permanent nature) such protective works must be 
carried out to the protected persons’ satisfaction prior to the commencement of any authorised 
development (or any relevant part thereof) to which sub–paragraph (1) applies and the protected 
person will give 56 days’ notice of such works from the date of submission of a plan in line with 
sub–paragraph (1) (except in an emergency). 
(8) Nothing in this paragraph will preclude the undertaker from submitting at any time or from 
time to time, but in no case less than 56 days before commencing the execution of any works 
comprising the authorised development, a new plan, instead of the plan previously submitted, and 
having done so the provisions of this paragraph will apply to and in respect of the new plan. 
(9) The undertaker will not be required to comply with sub–paragraph (1) where it needs to 
carry out emergency works as defined in the 1991 Act but in that case it shall give to the protected 
person in question notice as soon as is reasonably practicable and a plan of those works and 
shall— 
(a) comply with sub–paragraph (5), (6) and (7) insofar as is reasonably practicable in the 
circumstances; and 
(b) comply with sub–paragraph (10) at all times. 
(10) At all times when carrying out any works authorised under the Order comply with Wales 
and West Utilities Limited’s policies for safe working in proximity to gas apparatus “Specification 
for safe working in the vicinity of pipelines and associated installation operating above 2 BAR’s” 
and HSE’s “HSG47 Avoiding Danger from underground services”. 
 
 
234
Expenses 
63.—(1) Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the undertaker must pay to the 
protected person on demand all charges, costs and expenses reasonably committed or incurred by 
the protected person in, or in connection with, the inspection, removal, alteration, relaying or 
replacing or protection of any apparatus or the construction of any new apparatus which may be 
required as a direct consequence of the execution of any such works as are referred to in this 
Schedule including without limitation— 
(a) the approval of plans; 
(b) the carrying out of protective works (including any temporary protective works and their 
removal); 
(c) the survey of any land, apparatus or works, the inspection and monitoring of works or the 
installation or removal of any temporary works reasonably necessary in consequence of the 
execution of any such works referred to in this Schedule. 
(2) The undertaker will not be liable to the protected person pursuant to sub–paragraph (1) 
unless the protected person has submitted to and agreed with the undertaker details of the works 
required unless such works are required in an emergency. 
(3) An amount which apart from this sub–paragraph would be payable to the protected person in 
respect of works by virtue of sub–paragraph (1) will, if the works include the placing of apparatus 
provided in substitution for apparatus placed more than 7 years and 6 months earlier so as to 
confer on the protected person any financial benefit by deferment of the time for renewal of the 
apparatus in the ordinary course, be reduced by the amount which represents that benefit. 
(4) The protected person must use its reasonable endeavours to minimise any charges, costs and 
expenses to which this paragraph 63 applies. If requested to do so by the undertaker, the protected 
person shall provide an explanation of how the same has been minimised. The undertaker shall 
only be liable under this paragraph 63 for amounts reasonably incurred by the protected person. 
Indemnity 
64.—(1) Subject to sub–paragraphs (2) and (3), if by reason or in consequence of the 
construction of any such works authorised by this part of this Schedule or in consequence of the 
construction, use, maintenance or failure of any of the authorised development by or on behalf of 
the undertaker or in consequence of any act or default of the undertaker (or any person employed 
or authorised by him) in the course of carrying out such works, including without limitation 
works carried out by the undertaker under this Order, any material damage is caused to any 
apparatus or property of the protected person, or there is any interruption in any service provided, 
or in the supply of any goods, by any protected person, or the protected person becomes liable to 
pay any amount to any third party, the undertaker must— 
(a) bear and pay on demand the cost reasonably incurred by the protected person in making good 
such damage or restoring the supply; and 
(b) indemnify the protected person for any other expenses, loss, demands, proceedings, damages, 
claims, penalty or costs incurred by or recovered from the undertaker, by reason or in 
consequence of any such damage or interruption or the protected person becoming liable to 
any third party as aforesaid. 
(2) The fact that any act or thing may have been done by a protected person on behalf of the 
undertaker or in accordance with a plan approved by a protected person or in accordance with any 
requirement of the protected person or under its supervision will not (unless sub–paragraph (3) 
applies), excuse the undertaker from liability under the provisions of sub–paragraph (1) where the 
undertaker fails to carry out and execute the works properly with due care and attention in a skilful 
and workman like manner or in a manner which does not materially accord with the approved plan 
or as otherwise agreed between the undertaker and the protected person. 
(3) Nothing in sub–paragraph (1) shall impose any liability on the undertaker in respect of— 
(a) any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to the neglect or default of the 
protected person, its officers, servants, contractors or agents; and 
 
 
235
(b) any authorised development and/or any other works authorised by this Schedule carried out 
by the protected person as an assignee, transferee or lessee of the undertaker with the benefit 
of the Order pursuant to section 156 of the 2008 Act or under article 7 of the Order subject to 
the proviso that once such works become apparatus (“new apparatus”), any works yet to be 
executed and not falling within this sub–section 3(b) shall be subject to the full terms of this 
Schedule including this paragraph 64 in respect of such new apparatus. 
(4) The protected person must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such claim or 
demand and no settlement or compromise will be made without first consulting the undertaker and 
taking into account its representations. 
(5) The protected person must use its reasonable endeavours to mitigate in whole or in part and 
to minimise any costs, expenses, loss, demands, and penalties to which the indemnity under this 
paragraph 64 applies. If requested to do so by the undertaker, the protected person shall provide an 
explanation of how the claim has been minimised. The undertaker shall only be liable under this 
paragraph 64 for claims reasonably incurred by the protected person. 
Enactments and agreements 
65. Nothing in this part of this Schedule shall affect the provisions of any enactment or 
agreement regulating the relations between the undertaker and a protected person in respect of 
any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to the undertaker on the date on which this Order 
is made. 
Co–operation 
66. The protected person and the undertaker must use all reasonable endeavours to co–ordinate 
with the other party on the timing and method of execution of any works carried out under the 
Order or this Schedule in the interests of safety and the efficient and economic execution of the 
authorised development and taking into account the need to ensure the safe and efficient 
operation of the other party's operations. 
Access 
67. If in consequence of the agreement reached in accordance with paragraph 62 or the powers 
granted under this Order the access to any apparatus is materially obstructed, the undertaker must 
provide such alternative means of access to such apparatus as will enable the protected person to 
maintain or use the apparatus no less effectively than was possible before such obstruction. 
Arbitration 
68. Any difference or dispute arising between the undertaker and the protected person under 
this Schedule will, unless otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and the protected 
person, be determined by arbitration in accordance with article 43 (arbitration). 
 
 
236
 
SCHEDULE 12 
Article 42 
PROCEDURE FOR DISCHARGE OF REQUIREMENTS 
Applications made under requirements 
1.—(1) Where an application has been made to the relevant planning authority for any consent, 
agreement or approval required by a requirement (including agreement or approval in respect of 
part of a requirement) included in this Order the relevant planning authority must give notice to 
the undertaker of their decision on the application within a period of eight (8) weeks beginning 
with— 
(a) the day immediately following that on which the application is received by the authority; 
(b) the day immediately following that on which further information has been supplied by the 
undertaker under paragraph 2; or 
(c) such longer period as may be agreed in writing by the undertaker and the relevant planning 
authority. 
(2) Subject to sub–paragraph (3), in the event that the relevant planning authority does not 
determine an application within the period set out in sub–paragraph (1), the relevant planning 
authority is to be taken to have granted all parts of the application (without any condition or 
qualification) at the end of that period. 
(3) Any application made to the relevant planning authority pursuant to sub–paragraph (1) must 
include a statement to confirm whether it is likely that the subject matter of the application will 
give rise to any materially new or materially different environmental effects compared to those in 
the environment statement and if it will then it must be accompanied by information setting out 
what those effects are. 
(4) Where an application has been made to the relevant planning authority for any consent, 
agreement or approval required by a requirement included in this Order and the relevant planning 
authority does not determine the application within the period set out in sub–paragraph (1)— 
(a) and is accompanied by a report pursuant to sub–paragraph (3) which states that the subject 
matter of such application is likely to give rise to any materially new or materially different 
environmental effects compared to those in the environmental statement; or 
(b) the relevant planning authority determines during the period set out in sub–paragraph (1) that 
it considers that the subject matter of such application will give rise to any materially new or 
materially different environmental effects compared to those in the environmental statement, 
then the application is to be taken to have been refused by the relevant planning authority at the 
end of that period. 
Further information 
2.—(1) In relation to any part of the application to which this Schedule applies, the relevant 
planning authority may request such reasonable further information from the undertaker as is 
necessary to enable it to consider the application. 
(2) In the event that the relevant planning authority considers such further information to be 
necessary and the provision governing or requiring the application does not specify that 
consultation with a requirement consultee is required the relevant planning authority must, within 
fourteen (14) days of receipt of the application, notify the undertaker in writing specifying the 
further information required. 
(3) If the provision governing or requiring the application specifies that consultation with a 
requirement consultee is required, the relevant planning authority must issue the consultation to 
the requirement consultee within five business days of receipt of the application, and must notify 
the undertaker in writing specifying any further information requested by the requirement 
 
 
237
consultee within five business days of receipt of such a request and in any event within twenty–
one (21) days of receipt of the application. 
(4) In the event that the relevant planning authority does not give notification as specified in 
sub–paragraph (2) or (3) it is to be deemed to have sufficient information to consider the 
application and is not thereafter entitled to request further information without the prior agreement 
of the undertaker. 
(5) Where further information is requested under this paragraph 2 in relation to part only of an 
application, that part is to be treated as separate from the remainder of the application for the 
purposes of calculating time periods in paragraph 1(1)(b), paragraph 1(p4) and paragraph 2. 
Appeals 
3.—(1) The undertaker may appeal in the event that— 
(a) the relevant planning authority refuses an application for any consent, agreement or approval 
required by a requirement included in this Order or grants it subject to conditions; 
(b) the relevant planning authority is deemed to have refused an application pursuant to 
paragraph 1(4); 
(c) on receipt of a request for further information pursuant to paragraph 2 the undertaker 
considers that either the whole or part of the specified information requested by the relevant 
planning authority is not necessary for consideration of the application; or 
(d) on receipt of any further information requested, the relevant planning authority notifies the 
undertaker that the information provided is inadequate and requests additional information 
which the undertaker considers is not necessary for consideration of the application. 
(2) The appeal process is to be as follows— 
(a) The undertaker must submit the appeal documentation to the Secretary of State and must on 
the same day provide copies of the appeal documentation to the relevant planning authority 
and the requirement consultee (together with the undertaker, these are the “appeal parties”); 
(b) The Secretary of State must appoint a person within twenty (20) business days of receiving 
the appeal documentation and must forthwith notify the appeal parties of the identity of the 
appointed person and the address to which all correspondence for his attention should be sent, 
the date of such notification being the “start date” for the purposes of this sub–paragraph (2); 
(c) The relevant planning authority and any requirement consultee must submit written 
representations to the appointed person in respect of the appeal within twenty (20) business 
days of the start date and must ensure that copies of their written representations are sent to 
each other and to the undertaker on the day on which they are submitted to the appointed 
person; 
(d) The appeal parties must make any counter–submissions to the appointed person within twenty 
(20) business days of receipt of written representations pursuant to sub–paragraph (c) above; 
and 
(e) The appointed person must make his decision and notify it to the appeal parties, with reasons, 
as soon as reasonably practicable and in any event within thirty (30) business days of the 
deadline for the receipt of counter–submissions pursuant to sub–paragraph (d). 
(f) The appointment of the person pursuant to sub–paragraph (b) may be undertaken by a person 
appointed by the Secretary of State for this purpose instead of by the Secretary of State. 
(3) In the event that the appointed person considers that further information is necessary to 
enable him to consider the appeal he must, within five (5) business days of his appointment, notify 
the appeal parties in writing specifying the further information required. 
(4) Any further information required pursuant to sub–paragraph (3) must be provided by the 
undertaker to the appointed person, the relevant planning authority and any requirement consultee 
on the date specified by the appointed person (the “specified date”), and the appointed person 
must notify the appeal parties of the revised timetable for the appeal on or before that day. The 
revised timetable for the appeal must require submission of written representations to the 
 
 
238
appointed person within ten (10) business days of the specified date but must otherwise be in 
accordance with the process and time limits set out in sub–paragraph (2)(c)–2(e). 
(5) On an appeal under this paragraph, the appointed person may— 
(a) allow or dismiss the appeal, or 
(b) reverse or vary any part of the decision of the relevant planning authority (whether the appeal 
relates to that part of it or not), 
and may deal with the application as if it had been made to him in the first instance. 
(6) The appointed person may proceed to a decision on an appeal taking into account only such 
written representations as have been sent within the relevant time limits. 
(7) The appointed person may proceed to a decision even though no written representations have 
been made within the relevant time limits, if it appears to him that there is sufficient material to 
enable a decision to be made on the merits of the case. 
(8) The decision of the appointed person on an appeal is to be final and binding on the parties, 
and a court may entertain proceedings for questioning the decision only if the proceedings are 
brought by a claim for judicial review. 
(9) If an approval is given by the appointed person pursuant to this Schedule, it is deemed to be 
an approval for the purpose of Schedule 2 (requirements) as if it had been given by the relevant 
planning authority. The relevant planning authority may confirm any determination given by the 
appointed person in identical form in writing but a failure to give such confirmation (or a failure to 
give it in identical form) is not to be taken to affect or invalidate the effect of the appointed 
person’s determination. 
(10) The appointed person may or may not be a member of the Planning Inspectorate but must 
be a qualified town planner of at least ten (10) years’ experience. 
(11) Save where a direction is given pursuant to sub–paragraph (12) requiring the costs of the 
appointed person to be paid by the relevant planning authority, the reasonable costs of the 
appointed person must be met by the undertaker. 
(12) On application by the relevant planning authority or the undertaker, the appointed person 
may give directions as to the costs of the appeal parties and as to the parties by whom the costs of 
the appeal are to be paid. In considering whether to make any such direction and the terms on 
which it is to be made, the appointed person must have regard to the Development Management 
Manual, Section 12 Annex: Award of Costs, or any circular or guidance which may from time to 
time replace it. 
Interpretation of Schedule 12 
4. In this Schedule 12— 
“business day” means a day other than a Saturday or Sunday which is not Christmas Day, 
Good Friday or a bank holiday under section 1 of the Banking and Financial Dealings Act 
1971; and 
“requirement consultee” means any body named in a requirement as a body to be 
consulted by the relevant planning authority in discharging that requirement. 
 
 
239
EXPLANATORY NOTE 
(This note is not part of the Order) 
This Order grants development consent for, and authorises Abergelli Power Limited (referred to in 
this Order as the undertaker) to construct, operate and maintain a gas fired electricity generating 
station. The Order would permit the undertaker to acquire, compulsorily or by agreement, land and 
rights in land and to use land for this purpose as well as to override easements and other rights. 
A copy of the Order plans and the book of reference mentioned in this Order and certified in 
accordance with article 40 of this Order (certification of plans, etc.) may be inspected free of 
charge during working hours at Swansea Central Library, Civic Centre, Oystermouth Road, 
Swansea, SA1 3SN. 
10 (street works) break up or open a street where the street, not being a highway 
maintainable at 
public expense (within the meaning of the 1980 Act)— 
(a) is under the control or management of, or is maintainable by, railway or tramway 
undertakers or a navigation authority; or 
(b) forms part of a level crossing belonging to any such undertakers or to such an 
authority or 
to any other person, 
except with the consent of the undertakers or authority or, as the case may be, of the 
person to 
whom the level crossing belongs. 
(2) Paragraph (1) shall not apply to the carrying out under this Order of emergency 
works, 
within the meaning of Part 3 of the 1991 Act. 
(3) A consent given for the purpose of paragraph (1) may be made subject to such 
reasonable 
conditions as may be specified by the person giving it but shall not be unreasonably 
withheld. 
(4) In this paragraph “navigation authority” means any person who has a duty or 
power under 
any enactment to work, maintain, conserve, improve or control any canal or other 
inland 
navigation, navigable river, estuary or harbour. 
Application of landlord and tenant law 
49.—(1) This article applies to— 
(a) any agreement for leasing to any person the whole or any part of the authorised 
project or 
the right to operate the same; and 
(b) any agreement entered into by the undertaker with any person for the construction, 
maintenance, use or operation of the authorised project, or any part of it, 
so far as any such agreement relates to the terms on which any land which is the 
subject of a lease 
granted by or under that agreement is to be provided for that person’s use. 
(2) No enactment or rule of law regulating the rights and obligations of landlords and 
tenants 
shall prejudice the operation of any agreement to which this article applies. 
(3) Accordingly, no such enactment or rule of law shall apply in relation to the rights 
and 
obligations of the parties to any lease granted by or under any such agreement so as 
to— 
 
 
240
(a) exclude or in any respect modify any of the rights and obligations of those parties 
under 
the terms of the lease, whether with respect to the termination of the tenancy or any 
other 
matter; 
(b) confer or impose on any such party any right or obligation arising out of or 
connected 
with anything done or omitted on or in relation to land which is the subject of the 
lease, in 
addition to any such right or obligation provided for by the terms of the lease; or 
(c) restrict the enforcement (whether by action for damages or otherwise) by any party 
to the 
lease of any obligation of any other party under the lease. 
Operational land for purposes of the 1990 Act 
50. Development consent granted by this Order shall be treated as specific planning 
permission 
for the purposes of section 264(3)(a) of the 1990 Act (cases in which land is to be 
treated as 
operational land for the purposes of that Act).  
 83 
Defence to proceedings in respect of statutory nuisance 
51.—(1) Where proceedings are brought under section 82(1) of the Environmental 
Protection 
Act 1990(a) (summary proceedings by person aggrieved by statutory nuisance) in 
relation to a 
nuisance falling within paragraph (g) of section 79(1) of that Act (noise emitted from 
premises so 
as to be prejudicial to health or a nuisance) no order shall be made, and no fine may 
be imposed, 
under section 82(2) of that Act if— 
(a) the defendant shows that the nuisance— 
(i) relates to premises used by the undertaker for the purposes of or in connection with 
the construction or maintenance of the authorised project and that the nuisance is 
attributable to the carrying out of the authorised project in accordance with a notice 
served under section 60 (control of noise on construction site), or a consent given 
under section 61 (prior consent for work on construction site) or 65 (noise exceeding 
registered level), of the Control of Pollution Act 1974(b); or 
(ii) is a consequence of the construction or maintenance of the authorised project and 
that it cannot reasonably be avoided; or 
(b) the defendant shows that the nuisance— 
(i) relates to premises used by the undertaker for the purposes of or in connection with 
the use of the authorised project and that the nuisance is attributable to the use of the 
authorised project which is being used in accordance with a scheme of monitoring 
and attenuation of noise agreed with the Commission as described in requirement 25; 
or 
(ii) is a consequence of the use of the authorised project and that it cannot reasonably 
be 
avoided. 
(2) Section 61(9) (consent for work on construction site to include statement that it 
does not of 
 
 
241
itself constitute a defence to proceedings under section 82 of the Environmental 
Protection Act 
1990) of the Control of Pollution Act 1974 and section 65(8) of that Act 
(corresponding provision 
in relation to consent for registered noise level to be exceeded), shall not apply where 
the consent 
relates to the use of premises by the undertaker for the purposes of or in connection 
with the 
construction or maintenance of the authorised project. 
Protection of interests 
52. Schedule L to this Order has effect. 
Saving for Trinity House 
53. Nothing in this Order prejudices or derogates from any of the rights, duties or 
privileges of 
Trinity House. 
Disapplication of regulation 60 of the Conservation (Natural Habitats, &c.) 
Regulations 1994 
54.—(1) Regulation 60 of the Conservation (Natural Habitats, &c.) Regulations 
1994(c) 
(general development orders) (“the Habitats Regulations”) shall not apply to any 
planning 
permission which relates to the works authorised by article 7 (subsidiary works) and 
which is 
granted by article 3(1) of the Town and Country Planning (General Permitted 
Development) Order 
(a) 1990 c.43. There are amendments to this Act which are not relevant to this Order. 
(b) 1974 c.40. Sections 61(9) and 65(8) were amended by section 162 of, and 
paragraph 15 of Schedule 3 to, the 
Environmental Protection Act 1990, c.25. There are other amendments to the 1974 
Act which are not relevant to this Order. 
(c) 1994/2716 (“the Habitats Regulations”). Relevant amendments were made by SI 
2007/1843, SSI 2007/80, and SSI 
2007/349. The Habitats Regulations make provision for the purpose of implementing, 
for Great Britain, Council Directive 
92/43/EEC on the conservation of natural habitats and of wild flora and fauna (OJ No. 
L 206, 22.07.92, p.7) as last amended 
by Council Directive 2006/105/EC of 20 November 2006 adapting Directives 
79/409/EEC, 92/43/EEC, 97/68/EC, 
2001/80/EC and 2001/81/EC in the field of environment, by reason of the accession 
of Bulgaria and Romania (OJ No. L 
363, 20.12.06, p.368).  
 84 
1995 for the class of development described as permitted development in Part 11 of 
Schedule 2 to 
that Order. 
(2) Paragraph (1) does not apply if and to the extent that those works— 
(a) do not form part of the plan and project which was subject to an appropriate 
assessment 
in accordance with regulation 48 of the Habitats Regulations (assessment of 
implications 
 
 
242
for European Site) in connection with the making of this Order; and 
(b) are not the subject of a further consent, permission or authorisation by a competent 
authority as defined in the Habitats Regulations. 
Planning, etc. jurisdiction 
55.—(1) During the period beginning with the date when this Order comes into force 
and 
beginning on the accretion date, the area within the Order limits shall, for the 
purposes of the 
Control of Pollution Act 1974(a) and the Town and Country Planning Act 1990(b), be 
annexed to 
and incorporated with the district of [insert name of relevant planning authority]. 
(2) In this article “accretion date” means the date when the works authorised by this 
Order have 
been completed or, if earlier, the date when the benefits and rights granted by this 
Order cease to 
have effect pursuant to article 4 (period for completion of work). 
Certification of plans etc 
56.—(1) The undertaker shall, as soon as practicable after the making of this Order, 
submit to 
the decision-maker copies of— 
(a) the book of reference; 
(b) the land plan; 
(c) the rights plan; 
(d) the works plan; 
(e) the sections; and 
(f) any other plans or documents referred to in this Order, 
for certification that they are true copies of the documents referred to in this Order. 
(2) A plan or document so certified shall be admissible in any proceedings as 
evidence of the 
contents of the document of which it is a copy. 
Arbitration 
57. Any difference under any provision of this Order, unless otherwise provided for, 
shall be 
referred to and settled by a single arbitrator to be agreed between the parties or, failing 
agreement, 
to be appointed on the application of either party (after giving notice in writing to the 
other) by the 
[insert appropriate body]. 
Schedule A 
AUTHORISED PROJECT 
Part 1 
AUTHORISED DEVELOPMENT 
[NOTE: This Part should describe as fully as possible the elements of the proposed 
project 
(including any associated development), which are development for the purposes of 
section 32 of 
(a) 1974 c.40. 
(b) 1990 c.8.  
 85 
 
 
243
the 2008 Act, for which development consent is sought. It should not include any 
elements of 
development which would be authorised by specific provisions in the Order.] 
Part 2 
ANCILLARY WORKS 
[NOTE: This Part should describe as fully as possible the ancillary works for which 
consent is 
sought and which are not development within the meaning of section 32 of the 2008 
Act and which 
are not be the subject of a separate provision [article] in this Order.] 
Schedule B 
STREETS SUBJECT TO STREET WORKS 
(1) (2) 
Area Street subject to street works 
Schedule C 
STREETS TO BE STOPPED UP 
Part 1 
STREETS FOR WHICH A SUBSTITUTE IS TO BE PROVIDED 
(1) (2) (3) (4) 
Area Street to be stopped 
up 
Extent of stopping up New street to be 
substituted 
Part 2 
STREETS FOR WHICH NO SUBSTITUTE IS TO BE PROVIDED 
(1) (2) (3) 
Area Street to be stopped up Extent of stopping up 
Schedule D 
STREETS TO BE TEMPORARILY STOPPED UP 
(1) (2) (3) 
Area Street to be temporarily 
stopped up 
Extent of temporary stopping 
up 
Schedule E 
ACCESS TO WORKS 
(1) (2) 
Area Description of access  
 86 
Schedule F 
LAND OF WHICH ONLY SUBSOIL MORE THAN 9 METRES BENEATH 
SURFACE MAY BE ACQUIRED 
(1) (2) 
Area Number of and shown on land plan 
Schedule G 
LAND OF WHICH TEMPORARY POSSESSION MAY BE TAKEN 
(1) (2) (3) (4) 
Area Number of land shown 
on land plan 
Purpose for which 
 
 
244
temporary possession 
may be taken 
Relevant part of the 
Authorised project 
Schedule H 
DEEMED CONSENT UNDER COAST PROTECTION ACT 1949 
[Insert details of deemed consent] 
Schedule I 
DEEMED LICENCE UNDER THE FOOD AND ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION 
ACT 1985 
[Insert details of deemed licence] 
Schedule J 
TREES SUBJECT TO TREE PRESERVATION ORDERS 
(1) (2) (3) 
Type of tree Number[reference] of tree 
shown on land plan 
Work to be carried out 
Schedule K 
LIMITS OF HARBOUR 
[Insert details of limits of harbour] 
Schedule L 
PROTECTIVE PROVISIONS 
[Insert details of protective provisions]  
 87 
 SCHEDULE 4 Article 2 
Model provisions in respect of requirements 
CONTENTS 
1. Interpretation 
2. Time limits 
3. Stages of authorised development 
4.–6. Detailed design approval 
7. Provision of landscaping 
8. Implementation and maintenance of landscaping 
9. Trees 
10. Highway accesses 
11. Public rights of way 
12. Fencing – special roads 
13. Fencing and other means of enclosure 
14. Surface water drainage 
15. Contaminated land and groundwater 
16. Archaeology 
17. Ecological management plan 
18.–19. Code of construction practice 
20. Design of roads 
21. External lighting 
22. Construction traffic 
23. Control of noise during construction and maintenance 
24. Construction hours 
25. Control of noise during operational phase 
26. Control of odour emissions 
 
 
245
27. Control of artificial light emissions 
28. Control of dust emissions 
29. Control of smoke emissions 
30. Control of steam emissions 
31. Control of insects 
32. Accumulation or deposit 
33. Travel plan 
34. European protected species 
35. Restoration of land used temporarily for construction 
36. Requirement for written approval 
37. Amendments to approved details 
38. Requirement for consent of Civil Aviation Authority and Ministry of Defence 
Interpretation 
1. In this Schedule— 
“the 1990 Act” means the Town and Country Planning Act 1990; 
“the 2008 Act” means the Planning Act 2008;  
 88 
“authorised development” means the development and associated development 
described in 
Part 1 of Schedule A (authorised project) [and any other development authorised by 
this 
Order], which is development within the meaning of section 32 of the 2008 Act; 
“the authorised project” means the authorised development and the ancillary works 
authorised 
by this Order; 
“the code of construction practice” means the code of construction practice agreed by 
[insert 
relevant body] on [insert date]; 
“the environmental document” means the document certified as the environmental 
document 
by the decision-maker for the purposes of this Order; 
“highway” and “highway authority” have the same meaning as in the Highways Act 
1980; 
“the Order limits” means the limits shown on the works plan within which the 
authorised 
project may be carried out; 
“relevant planning authority” means— 
(i) the district planning authority for the area in which the land to which the provisions 
of this Order apply is situated unless the provisions relate to the construction or 
alteration of a hazardous waste facility, in which case it means the county planning 
authority; 
(ii) a National Park Authority; 
(iii) the Broads Authority; and 
(iv) the Greater London Authority if the land to which the provisions of this Order or 
requirements apply is situated in Greater London; 
“stage” means a defined section or part of the authorised development, the extent of 
which is 
shown in a scheme submitted to and approved by the Commission pursuant to 
requirement 3 
(stages of authorised development). 
 
 
246
Time limits 
2. The authorised development must be begun within [insert number] years of the date 
of this 
Order. 
Stages of authorised development 
3. No authorised development shall commence until a written scheme setting out all 
the stages 
of the authorised development has, after consultation with the relevant planning 
authority and 
highway authority, been submitted to and approved by the Commission. 
Detailed design approval 
4. No [stage of the] authorised development shall commence until [for that stage] 
written details 
of the following have, after consultation with the relevant planning authority, been 
submitted to 
and approved by the Commission— 
[or 
5. No [stage of the] authorised development shall commence until details of the 
layout, scale and 
external appearance of the following elements of the authorised development [within 
that stage] 
have, after consultation with the relevant planning authority, been submitted to and 
approved by 
the Commission] 
6. The authorised development must be carried out in accordance with the approved 
details. 
Provision of landscaping 
7. No [stage of the] authorised development shall until commence a written 
landscaping scheme 
[for that stage] has, after consultation with the relevant planning authority, been 
submitted to and  
 89 
approved by the Commission. The landscaping scheme must include details of all 
proposed hard 
and soft landscaping works, including— 
(a) location, number, species, size and planting density of any proposed planting; 
(b) cultivation, importing of materials and other operations to ensure plant 
establishment; 
(c) proposed finished ground levels; 
(d) hard surfacing materials; 
(e) vehicular and pedestrian access, parking and circulation areas; 
(f) minor structures, such as furniture, refuse or other storage units, signs and lighting; 
(g) proposed and existing functional services above and below ground, including 
drainage, 
power and communications cables and pipelines, manholes and supports; 
(h) details of existing trees to be retained, with measures for their protection during 
the 
construction period; 
(i) retained historic landscape features and proposals for restoration, where relevant; 
and 
 
 
247
(j) implementation timetables for all landscaping works. 
Implementation and maintenance of landscaping 
8.—(1) All landscaping works must be carried out in accordance with the landscaping 
scheme 
approved under requirement 7 and to a reasonable standard in accordance with the 
relevant 
recommendations of appropriate British Standards or other recognised codes of good 
practice. 
(2) The landscaping works must be carried out in accordance with implementation 
timetables 
approved under requirement 6. 
(3) Any tree or shrub planted as part of an approved landscaping scheme that, within a 
period of 
five years after planting, is removed, dies or becomes, in the opinion of the 
Commission, seriously 
damaged or diseased, must be replaced in the first available planting season with a 
specimen of the 
same species and size as that originally planted, unless otherwise approved by the 
Commission. 
Trees 
9.—(1) No [stage of the] authorised development shall commence until written details 
of any 
proposed tree planting and the proposed times of planting have, after consultation 
with the 
relevant planning authority, been approved in writing by the Commission; and all tree 
planting 
shall be carried out in accordance with those details and at those times. 
(2) If within a period of [two years] beginning with the date of the planting of any tree 
that tree, 
or any tree planted in replacement for it, is removed, uprooted or destroyed or dies, 
[or becomes, 
in the opinion of the Commission, seriously damaged or defective,] another tree of the 
same 
species and size as that originally planted shall be planted at the same place, unless 
the 
Commission gives its written consent to a variation. 
Highway accesses 
10.—(1) No [stage of the] authorised development shall commence until [for that 
stage,] written 
details of the siting, design and layout of any new permanent or temporary means of 
access to a 
highway to be used by vehicular traffic, or any alteration to an existing means of 
access to a 
highway used by vehicular traffic, has, after consultation with the relevant planning 
authority and 
highway authority, been submitted to and approved by the Commission. 
(2) The highway accesses must be constructed in accordance with the approved 
details. 
(3) No [stage of the] authorised development shall be begun until [for that stage,] a 
written 
 
 
248
Access Management Scheme has, after consultation with the relevant planning 
authority and 
highway authority, been submitted to and approved by the Commission. 
(4) The Access Management Scheme must be carried out in accordance with the 
approved 
details.  
 90 
Public rights of way 
11.—(1) No [stage of the] authorised development shall commence that would affect 
[insert 
details of relevant right of way] until a written implementation plan and specification 
for the 
making up of an alternative right of way has, after consultation with the relevant 
planning 
authority and highway authority, been submitted to and approved by the Commission. 
(2) The alternative [insert details of relevant right of way] shall be implemented in 
accordance 
with the approved plan and specification. 
Fencing – special roads 
12.—(1) No [stage of the] authorised development shall commence until written 
details of the 
design and construction of any boundary fencing for special roads have, after 
consultation with the 
relevant planning authority and highway authority, been submitted to and approved by 
the 
Commission. 
(2) The authorised development shall be carried out in accordance with the approved 
design and 
construction. 
(3) “Special road” has the same meaning as in section 329 of the Highways Act 1980. 
Fencing and other means of enclosure 
13.—(1) No [stage of the] authorised development shall commence until written 
details of all 
proposed permanent and temporary fences, walls or other means of enclosure [for that 
stage] have, 
after consultation with the relevant planning authority, been submitted to and 
approved by the 
Commission. 
(2) The [insert description], and any construction sites, must remain securely fenced at 
all times 
during construction of the authorised development. 
(3) Any temporary fencing must be removed on completion of the authorised 
development. 
(4) Any approved permanent fencing of the new [insert description] must be 
completed before 
the [insert description] is brought into use. 
Surface water drainage 
14.—(1) No [stage of the] authorised development shall commence until [for that 
stage,] written 
 
 
249
details of the surface and foul water drainage system (including means of pollution 
control) have, 
after consultation with the relevant planning authority and the sewerage and drainage 
authority, 
been submitted to and approved by the Commission. 
(2) The surface and foul water drainage system must be constructed in accordance 
with the 
approved details. 
Contaminated land and groundwater 
15.—(1) No [stage of the] authorised development shall commence until a written 
scheme 
[applicable to that stage,] to deal with the contamination of any land, including 
groundwater, 
within the Order limits which is likely to cause significant harm to persons or 
pollution of 
controlled waters or the environment has, after consultation with the relevant planning 
authority 
and the Environment Agency, been submitted to and approved by the Commission. 
(2) The scheme shall include an investigation and assessment report, prepared by a 
specialist 
consultant approved by the relevant planning authority, to identify the extent of any 
contamination 
and the remedial measures to be taken to render the land fit for its intended purpose, 
together with 
a management plan which sets out long-term measures with respect to any 
contaminants 
remaining on the site. 
(3) Remediation must be carried out in accordance with the approved scheme.  
 91 
Archaeology 
16.—(1) No [stage of the] authorised development shall commence until [for that 
stage,] a 
written scheme for the investigation of areas of archaeological interest [as identified 
in section [ 
]of the environmental document] has, after consultation with the relevant planning 
authority, been 
submitted to and approved by the Commission. 
(2) The scheme shall identify areas where field work and/or a watching brief are 
required, and 
the measures to be taken to protect, record or preserve any significant archaeological 
remains that 
may be found. 
(3) Any archaeological works or watching brief carried out under the scheme must be 
by a 
suitably qualified person or body approved by the Commission. 
(4) Any archaeological works or watching brief must be carried out in accordance 
with the 
approved scheme. 
Ecological management plan 
 
 
250
17.—(1) No [stage of the] authorised development shall commence until a written 
ecological 
management plan [for that stage] reflecting the survey results and ecological 
mitigation and 
enhancement measures included in the environmental document, after consultation 
with the 
relevant planning authority, shall be submitted to and approved by the Commission. 
(2) The ecological management plan shall include an implementation timetable and 
must be 
carried out as approved. 
Code of construction practice 
18. Construction works shall be carried out in accordance with the agreed code of 
construction 
practice, unless otherwise agreed by the Commission, after consultation with relevant 
planning 
authority. 
[or 
19.—(1) No [stage of the] authorised development shall commence until a code of 
construction 
practice shall, after consultation with the relevant planning authority, be submitted to 
and 
approved by the Commission. 
(2) All construction works shall be undertaken in accordance with the approved code, 
unless 
otherwise agreed by the Commission.] 
[Note: The code should specify measures designed to minimise the impacts of 
construction works, 
such as means of minimising pollution from dust, noise, vibration and lighting, wheel 
cleansing 
facilities, routes for construction traffic, working hours etc. To the extent that it does 
not, or does 
not do so adequately, separate conditions are likely to be required, some of which are 
indicated 
below]. 
Design of roads 
20.—(1) No [stage of the] authorised development consisting of the construction or 
alteration of 
a street which is a trunk road or including any traffic management and control 
measures shall 
commence until written details of the design of the street shall, after consultation with 
the 
Highways Agency, be submitted to and approved by the Commission. 
(2) The [authorised development] construction or alteration of the street or the taking 
of traffic 
management and control measures shall be carried out in accordance with the 
approved design. 
External lighting 
21. No [stage of the] authorised development, shall commence until written details of 
any 
 
 
251
external lighting to be installed at any of the construction sites [within that stage], 
including 
measures to prevent light spillage, shall, after consultation with the relevant planning 
authority and  
 92 
the highway authority, be submitted to and approved by the Commission; and any 
approved means 
of lighting must subsequently be installed and retained for the duration of the 
construction period. 
Construction traffic 
22.—(1) No [stage of the] authorised development shall commence until written 
details of the 
preferred route to be used by construction traffic shall, after consultation with the 
relevant 
planning authority and the highway authority, be submitted to and approved by the 
Commission. 
(2) Notices shall be erected and maintained throughout the period of construction at 
every 
construction site exit, indicating to drivers the route agreed by the Commission for 
traffic entering 
and leaving the site. 
Control of noise during construction and maintenance 
23.—(1) No [stage of the] authorised development shall commence until, after 
consultation with 
the relevant planning authority, a written scheme for noise management during 
construction and 
maintenance [of that stage] has been submitted to and approved by the Commission. 
(2) The scheme shall set out the particulars of— 
(a) the works, and the method by which they are to be carried out; 
(b) the noise attenuation measures to be taken to minimise noise resulting from the 
works, 
including any noise limits; and 
(c) a scheme for monitoring the noise during the works to ensure compliance with the 
noise 
limits and the effectiveness of the attenuation measures. 
(3) The approved noise management scheme must be implemented before and 
maintained 
during construction and maintenance of the [relevant stage of the] authorised 
development. 
(4) The construction and maintenance works must be undertaken in accordance with 
the 
approved noise management scheme. 
Construction hours 
24.—(1) Construction work shall not take place other than between [0800 and 1800 
hours on 
weekdays and 0800 and 1300 hours on Saturdays, excluding public holidays], unless 
otherwise 
agreed by the Commission. 
(2) Nothing in paragraph (1) precludes a start-up period from [0730 to 0800] and a 
shut down 
 
 
252
period from [1800 to 1830] on weekdays (excluding public holidays). 
Control of noise during operational phase 
25.—(1) No authorised development shall commence operation until, after 
consultation with the 
relevant planning authority, a written scheme for noise management including 
monitoring and 
attenuation for the use of the authorised project has been submitted to and approved 
by the 
Commission. 
(2) The noise management scheme must be implemented as approved and maintained 
for the 
duration of use of the authorised project. 
Control of odour emissions 
26.—(1) No [stage of the] authorised development shall commence until, after 
consultation with 
the relevant planning authority, a written scheme for the management and mitigation 
of odour 
emissions has been submitted to and approved by the Commission. 
(2) The approved scheme for the management and mitigation of odour emissions must 
be 
implemented before and maintained during the construction, operation and 
decommissioning of 
the [relevant stage of the] authorised development.  
 93 
Control of artificial light emissions 
27.—(1) No [stage of the] authorised development shall commence until, after 
consultation with 
the relevant planning authority, a written scheme for the management and mitigation 
of artificial 
light emissions has been submitted to and approved by the Commission. 
(2) The approved scheme for the management and mitigation of artificial light 
emissions must 
be implemented before and maintained during the construction, operation and 
decommissioning of 
the [relevant stage of the] authorised development. 
Control of dust emissions 
28.—(1) No [stage of the] authorised development shall commence until, after 
consultation with 
the relevant planning authority, a written scheme for the management and mitigation 
of dust 
emissions has been submitted to and approved by the Commission. 
(2) The approved scheme for the management and mitigation of dust emissions must 
be 
implemented before and maintained during the construction, operation and 
decommissioning of 
the [relevant stage of the] authorised development 
Control of smoke emissions 
29.—(1) No [stage of the] authorised development shall commence until, after 
consultation with 
 
 
253
the relevant planning authority, a written scheme for the management and mitigation 
of smoke 
emissions has been submitted to and approved by the Commission. 
(2) The approved scheme for the management and mitigation of smoke emissions 
must be 
implemented before and maintained during the construction, operation and 
decommissioning of 
the [relevant stage of the] authorised development. 
Control of steam emissions 
30.—(1) No [stage of the] authorised development shall commence until, after 
consultation with 
the relevant planning authority, a written scheme for the management and mitigation 
of steam 
emissions has been submitted to and approved by the Commission. 
(2) The approved scheme for the management and mitigation of steam emissions must 
be 
implemented before and maintained during the construction, operation and 
decommissioning of 
the [relevant stage of the] authorised development. 
Control of insects 
31.—(1) No [stage of the] authorised development shall commence until, after 
consultation with 
the relevant planning authority, a written scheme to ensure the prevention of 
infestation or 
emanation of insects from the authorised development has been submitted to and 
approved by the 
Commission. 
(2) The approved scheme for the prevention of infestation or emanation of insects 
must be 
implemented before and maintained during the construction, operation and 
decommissioning of 
the [relevant stage of the] authorised development. 
(3) For the purposes of this requirement, “insects” excludes insects that are wild 
animals 
included in Schedule 5 to the Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981(a) (animals which 
are protected), 
unless they are included in respect of section 9(5) of that Act only. 
(a) 1981 c.69. Relevant amendments were made by SI 1988/288, 1989/906, 
1992/2350, 1998/878, 2007/1843, 2008/2172, SSI 
2007/80. There are other amendments not relevant to this Order.  
 94 
Accumulations and deposits 
32.—(1) No [stage of the] authorised development shall commence until, after 
consultation with 
the relevant planning authority, a written scheme for the management of any 
accumulations [or] 
and deposits whose effects may be harmful or visible or otherwise noticeable from 
outside the 
Order limits has been submitted to and approved by the Commission. 
(2) The approved scheme for the management of accumulations and deposits must be 
 
 
254
implemented before and maintained during the construction, operation and 
decommissioning of 
the [relevant stage of the] authorised development. 
Travel plan 
33.—(1) No [stage of the] of the authorised development shall be begun until, after 
consultation 
with the relevant planning authority and the highway authority, a travel plan [for the 
contractor’s 
workforce], which must include details of the expected means of travel to and from 
[the authorised 
[project]][the construction site] and any parking to be provided, has been submitted to 
and 
approved by the Commission. 
(2) No part of the authorised project shall be brought into use until, after consultation 
with the 
relevant planning authority and the highway authority, a travel plan, which must 
include details of 
the expected means of travel to and from the authorised project and any parking to be 
provided, 
has been submitted to and approved by the Commission. 
(3) The plan approved under paragraph (1) must be implemented during the 
construction of the 
authorised development and the plan approved under paragraph (2) must be 
implemented [within 
one month of the authorised project being brought into use] and shall continue to be 
implemented 
for as long as the authorised project is used. 
European protected species 
34.—(1) No [stage of the] authorised development shall commence until [further] 
survey work 
has been carried out to establish whether a European protected species is present on 
any of the 
land affected, or likely to be affected, by the authorised development or in any of the 
trees to be 
lopped or felled or buildings to be demolished during [that stage of] the authorised 
development. 
(2) Where a European protected species is shown to be present, no authorised 
development [of 
that stage] shall be begun until, after consultation with the relevant planning authority, 
Natural 
England and the Secretary of State for the Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, a 
scheme of 
protection and mitigation measures has been submitted to and approved by the 
Commission; and 
the authorised development shall be carried out in accordance with the approved 
scheme. 
(3) “European protected species” has the same meaning as in regulations 38 and 42 of 
the 
Conservation (Natural Habitats, &c.) Regulations 1994(a). 
Restoration of land used temporarily for construction 
 
 
255
35. Any land within the Order limits which is used temporarily for construction must 
be 
reinstated to its former condition, or such condition as the Commission may approve, 
within [six] 
months of completion of authorised development. 
Requirement for written approval 
36. Where under any of the above requirements the approval or agreement of the 
Commission or 
another person is required, that approval or agreement must be given in writing. 
 
(a) S.I. 1994/2716.  
 95 
Amendments to approved details 
37. With respect to any requirement which requires the authorised development to be 
carried out 
in accordance with the details approved by the Commission, the approved details shall 
be taken to 
include any amendments that may subsequently be approved in writing by the 
Commission. 
Requirement for consent of Civil Aviation Authority and Ministry of Defence 
38. No [stage of the] authorised development shall commence until [for that stage], 
after 
consultation with the Civil Aviation Authority and the Ministry of Defence, written 
details for the 
operation of the authorised project [and its effect on radar] have been submitted to and 
agreed by 
the Commission. 
[Note: This requirement is only relevant in the context of authorised development that 
involves a 
wind farm.]  
EXPLANATORY NOTE 
(This note is not part of the Order) 
The Planning Act 2008 (“the 2008 Act”) established the Infrastructure Planning 
Commission (“the 
Commission”) and provides for the granting of development consent for certain types 
of nationally 
significant infrastructure project. Development consent is granted in the form of an 
Order made by 
the Commission or the Secretary of State. 
This Order prescribes model provisions for inclusion in the draft Order, which the 
Infrastructure 
Planning (Applications and Procedure) Regulations 2009 (S.I. 2009/2264) require to 
accompany 
an application for an order granting development consent. These model provisions 
may also be 
included in orders made by the Commission under section 114 of the 2008 Act, which 
grant 
development consent for nationally significant infrastructure projects. The 
Commission must have 
 
 
256
regard to the prescribed model provisions when making an order granting 
development consent 
but is not compelled to use them: the Commission may omit them entirely from orders 
if the 
model provisions are not appropriate or may adapt them to meet specific 
requirements. 
Schedule 1 sets out general model provisions, which may be included in orders 
relating to all 
nationally significant infrastructure projects. These model provisions include an 
interpretation 
provision, which sets out general definitions, provisions in respect of street works, 
stopping up of 
streets, agreements with street authorities, access to works, the compulsory purchase 
of land and 
rights over the land or lesser interests in land and the extinguishment or suspension of 
rights over 
land. 
Schedule 2 sets out model provisions relevant to orders granting development consent 
for 
railways. These include provisions in respect of the incorporation of the Railways 
Clauses 
Consolidation Act 1845 (c.20), level crossings and the operation and use of railways. 
Schedule 3 sets out model provisions relevant to orders granting development consent 
for 
harbours. These include an interpretation provision, which sets out definitions 
relevant to 
harbours, provisions in respect of the incorporation of the Harbours, Docks and Piers 
Clauses Act 
1847 (c.27), the limits of the harbour, tidal works and the right to dredge. 
Schedule 4 sets out model provisions in respect of the requirements which can be 
included in 
orders granting development consent under section 120 of the 2008 Act. 
An Impact Assessment has not been prepared for this Order as there is no additional 
impact on 
business, charities or the public sector beyond that examined in the Impact 
Assessment that 
accompanied the Planning Bill when it was introduced in Parliament on 27th 
November 2007. That 
Impact Assessment can be found on the Communities and Local Government website 
(http://www.communities.gov.uk). 
_____________________________________________________________________
_______________________________________ 
¤ Crown copyright 2009 
Printed and published in the UK by The Stationery Office Limited under the authority 
and superintendence of Carol Tullo, Controller 
of Her Majesty’s Stationery Office and Queen’s Printer of Acts of Parliament. 
E4829 9/2009 194829T 19585  
S.I. 2009 No. 2265 The Infrastructure Planning (Model Provisions) (England and 
Wales) Order 2009 
