 
 
 
The Abergelli Power Gas Fired Generating Station 
Order 
 
6.2 Environmental Statement Appendices - Volume C 
CHP 
 
Planning Act 2008 
The Infrastructure Planning  
(Applications: Prescribed Forms and Procedure) Regulations 2009 
 
PINS Reference Number:  
 
EN010069 
Document Reference: 
 
 
6.2 
Regulation Number: 
 
 
5(2)(a) & Infrastructure 
Planning (Environmental Impact 
Assessment) Regulations 2009 
Author: 
 
 
 
 
AECOM 
 
Revision 
 
Date  
 
Description  
 
0 
 
 
May 2018  
 
Submission Version  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix 5.1
Combined Heat and Power Technical Note
 
 
 
 
ABERGELLI POWER PLANT  
DESIGN NOTE ON COMBINED HEAT AND 
POWER  
 
 
NOVEMBER 2017 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Type of document (final) 
 
 
Project no: 70034053 
Date: November 2017  
 
 
 
 
– 
WSP 
Westbrook Mills 
Godalming 
GU7 2AZ 
 
 
www.wsp-pb.com 
ABERGELLI POWER PLANT 
DESIGN NOTE ON COMBINED HEAT 
AND POWER  
Abergelli Power Ltd. 
iii 
 
Abergelli Power Plant 
WSP 
Abergelli Power Ltd. 
Project No 70034053 
November 2017 
 
Q U A L I T Y  M A N A G E M E N T  
ISSUE/REVISION 
FIRST ISSUE 
REVISION 1 
REVISION 2 
REVISION 3 
Remarks 
Final report 
December 2014 
Update 2017 
Update following 
clients comments  
 
Date 
December 2014 
November 2017 
November 2017 
 
Prepared by 
Russell Bayliss, 
Ryan Broughton, 
Mark Eccleshare, 
Ian Evans, 
Andrew Jackson, 
Ignacio Martin 
Garcia 
Alexandra Foden 
Alexandra Foden  
 
Signature 
 
 
 
 
Checked by 
Ryan Broughton 
Ignacio Martin 
Garcia 
Ignacio Martin Garcia Ignacio Martin Garcia  
Signature 
 
 
 
 
Authorised by 
Bill Hatfield 
 
 
 
Signature 
 
 
 
 
Project number 
287521B 
70034053 
70034053 
 
 
1 
 
Abergelli Power Plant 
WSP 
Abergelli Power Ltd. 
Project No 70034053 
November 2017 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
ABBREVIATIONS ....................................................................................... 1 
GLOSSARY OF KEY TERMS .................................................................... 2 
1 
INTRODUCTION .......................................................................... 4 
2 
PROJECT DESCRIPTION ........................................................... 4 
3 
PURPOSE OF THIS DESIGN NOTE ON CHP ............................ 4 
4 
REQUIREMENT FOR CONSIDERATION OF CHP IN 
APPLICATIONS FOR DEVELOPMENT CONSENT 
ORDERS ...................................................................................... 5 
5 
COMPATIBILITY WITH PROVISION OF CHP ............................ 7 
5.1 
FEASIBILITY ................................................................................................. 7 
5.2 
MEETING FUTURE HEAT REQUIREMENTS ................................................ 8 
5.3 
PROVISIONS FOR ENSURING FUTURE HEAT DEMAND CAN BE 
EXPLOITED ................................................................................................... 9 
6 
POSSIBILITIES FOR CHP ......................................................... 10 
6.1 
INITIAL CHP INVESTIGATION .................................................................... 10 
7 
CONCLUSIONS ......................................................................... 12 
 
T A B L E S  
TABLE 6-1 TOTAL HEAT LOADS WITHIN THE CHP SEARCH AREA ......................... 11 
 
F I G U R E S  
FIGURE 6-1 APPROXIMATE TOTAL HEAT LOAD WITHIN A 10 KM RADIUS 
AROUND THE PROJECT SITE ................................................... 10 
1 
 
Abergelli Power Plant 
WSP 
Abergelli Power Ltd. 
Project No 70034053 
 
November 2017 
ABBREVIATIONS 
 
 
 
 
ACRONYM 
TERM 
APFP Regulations 
Infrastructure Planning (Applications: Prescribed Forms and 
Procedures) 
Regulations 2009 
APL 
Abergelli Power Limited 
CCGT 
Combined Cycle Gas Turbine  
CHP 
Combined Heat and Power 
CHP – R 
CHP Ready Guidance for Combustion and Energy from Waste Plants 
DCO  
Development Consent Order 
DECC 
Department for Energy and Climate Change 
GT 
Gas Turbine 
GTG 
Gas Turbine Generator 
Ha 
Hectare 
HCA 
Homes and Communities Agency 
km 
Kilometres 
kV 
Kilovolt 
LCA 
Landscape Character Assessment 
LCPD 
Large Combustion Plant Directive 
LEPs 
Local Enterprise Partnerships 
MWe  
Mega Watt Electrical 
NRW 
Natural Resources Wales 
NSIP  
Nationally Significant Infrastructure Project 
RGE 
Reciprocating Gas Engine 
OCGT 
Open Cycle Gas Turbine 
2 
 
Abergelli Power Plant 
WSP 
Abergelli Power Ltd. 
Project No 70034053 
 
November 2017 
GLOSSARY OF KEY TERMS 
 
ACRONYM 
TERM 
DESCRIPTION 
APFP Regulations 
Infrastructure Planning 
(Applications: 
Prescribed Forms and 
Procedures) 
Regulations 2009 
Sets out the detailed procedures which must be followed for 
submitting and publicising applications for NSIPs under the 
Planning Act 2008. 
APL 
Abergelli Power 
Limited 
A special purpose vehicle which has been set up to develop 
the proposed Project and has been established by Drax 
Group plc. Drax is planning to develop flexible gas fired 
generation assets to support the UK Government drive to a 
low carbon economy.  Drax has its project dedicated 
personnel sourced through an experienced management 
company, Stag Energy, founded in 2002. 
Applicant 
Applicant 
Abergelli Power Limited (APL) 
Application for 
Development Consent  
Application for 
Development Consent  
The application for development consent made to the SofS 
under section 37 of the PA 2008 in respect of the Project, 
required pursuant to section 31 of the PA 2008 because the 
Project constitutes an NSIP under section 14(1)(a) and 
section 15 PA 2008 by virtue of being an onshore 
generating station in England or Wales with a capacity 
exceeding 50 MWe.   
CCGT 
Combined Cycle Gas 
Turbine  
Gas plant technology system comprising Gas Turbine(s) 
fuelled by natural gas, a Heat Recovery Steam Generator(s) 
utilising heat from the Gas Turbine exhaust gases, and a 
steam turbine plant with associated condensing system. 
CHP 
Combined Heat and 
Power 
A cogeneration power station capable of supplying power to 
the National Grid Electricity Transmission System and also 
heat to local heat users (such as industry or leisure) through 
a direct connection to waste heat/steam produced as part of 
the combustion process. 
DCO  
Development Consent 
Order 
Consent by a UK Government Minister for a Nationally 
Significant Infrastructure Project granted pursuant to the PA 
2008. A DCO can incorporate or override the need for a 
variety of consents which would otherwise be required for a 
development, including planning permission. A DCO can 
also include rights of compulsory acquisition. A DCO can be 
made in the form of a Statutory Instrument. 
GTG 
Gas Turbine 
Generators 
A GTG comprises a Gas Turbine and Generator and 
associated auxiliaries such as air inlet filter, coolers, 
equipment skids and control panels. 
 
The GTG may be an ‘industrial’ type unit which are suited to 
long operational hours and are more efficient but less 
flexible than smaller class units. To achieve up to 299 MWe, 
APL would propose to use 1 individual industrial GTG. 
ha 
Hectare 
A unit area (10,000 m² / 2.471 acres) 
km  
Kilometres 
Measurement of distance (1,000 metres). 
MWe  
Mega Watt Electrical 
Measurement of electrical power. 
 
NSIP  
Nationally Significant 
Infrastructure Project 
Nationally Significant Infrastructure Projects are projects 
which fall within the definition set out in section 14 of the PA 
2008. The Project constitutes a Nationally Significant 
Infrastructure Project (NSIP) by virtue of s.14(1)(a) and s.15 
of the PA 2008, which include within the definition of a NSIP 
any onshore generating station in England or Wales with a 
capacity exceeding 50 MWe. 
Peaking Plant  
Peaking Plant 
Peaking plants are operated when there is a Stress Event 
Generating Equipment Power 
Gas Turbine Generator and Balance of Plant which are 
3 
 
Abergelli Power Plant 
WSP 
Abergelli Power Ltd. 
Project No 70034053 
 
November 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Generation 
Plant 
located on the Generating Equipment Site. 
Power 
Generation 
Plant Site 
Power 
Generation 
Plant Site 
One of the three principal areas comprising the Project Site. 
The area within which the Power Generation Plant 
development will occur, at farmland north of Swansea, 
approximately 1 km southeast of Felindre and 1.4 km north 
of Llangelyfach. 
The Project 
The Project 
The Abergelli Power Project, comprising the following 
principal elements: 
1) A new Power Generation Plant 
2) A new integral Electrical Connection;  
3) A new integral Gas Connection. 
The Power Generation Plant, Gas Connection and Electrical 
Connection together with their construction access/laydown 
and future maintenance access/laydown requirements are 
referred to as the Project. 
Project Site 
Project Site 
This includes the Power Generation Plant Site, Electrical 
Connection Site, Gas Connection Site and construction 
access/laydown and future maintenance access/laydown 
areas. 
The Project Site corresponds to the limits of the draft 
Development Consent Order (the Order Limits). 
OCGT  
Open Cycle Gas 
Turbine 
Gas plant technology system comprising a Gas Turbine 
fuelled by natural gas. The hot exhaust gases are routed 
directly to the stack without passing through a secondary 
steam turbine. 
The generating technology used for the Power Generation 
Plant. 
Stack  
Stack  
The structure by which the exhaust gases and waste heat 
are emitted to the atmosphere. Typically, the GTG unit 
would have its own dedicated stack. The exhaust gases 
would be subject to emissions control abatement. 
4 
 
Abergelli Power Plant 
WSP 
Abergelli Power Ltd. 
Project No 70034053 
 
November 2017 
1 
INTRODUCTION 
1.1.1 
Combined Heat and Power (CHP) is the simultaneous generation of electrical power and usable 
heat in a single process, and is also known as co-generation. A CHP station may either supply 
steam direct to customers or capture heat from low-pressure steam after it has been used to drive 
electricity generating turbines, for hot water or space heating purposes.  The heat can also be 
used to drive absorption chillers, thereby providing cooling.  
1.1.2 
CHP is considered advantageous as generating electrical power and heat together is more 
efficient than generating them separately. Therefore it can deliver a reduction in both primary 
energy usage and carbon emissions.  
2 
PROJECT DESCRIPTION  
2.1.1 
Abergelli Power Limited (APL) is promoting a new gas fired peaking power generation plant on 
land at Abergelli Farm, which is approximately 10km to the North of Swansea. The Project Site is 
located within fields used for grazing, bounded by a mixture of drainage ditches, fencing and 
defunct hedgerows. The Power Generation Plant will be designed to provide an electrical output 
of up to 299 megawatts (MWe) and will be fuelled by natural gas.  
2.1.2 
The Power Generation Plant will use one Open Cycle Gas Turbine (OCGT). The main generating 
equipment comprises a singular Gas Turbine Generator (GTG). The GTG consists of an inlet air 
filter, an air compressor, combustion chamber, power turbine, exhaust silencer and generator.   
2.1.3 
Air is compressed in the compressor of the Gas Turbine (GT) and gaseous fuel is injected into the 
combustion chamber(s) where the fuel burns producing hot, high-pressure gases. These gases 
expand across the turbine blades of the GT, which drives both the compressor and the electrical 
generator. The hot exhaust gases are then routed via a silencer to the stack and emitted to the 
atmosphere.  
2.1.4 
It is important to note that for the proposed open cycle, no steam will be produced as part of the 
electricity generation process.  
2.1.5 
The plant will be a ‘Peaking Plant’ operating for up to 1,500 hours per year on a five year rolling 
average, its function being to support the national electricity transmission system by providing 
additional temporary generation at times of peak demand or to compliment the intermittent nature 
of renewable energy sources. 
3 
PURPOSE OF THIS DESIGN NOTE ON 
CHP 
3.1.1 
OCGT technology has been selected for the Project. This Design Note on CHP summarises why 
further investigation into use of waste heat is not being undertaken, and provides evidence as to 
why the proposed thermal generating station should be excluded from being CHP-Ready.  
5 
 
Abergelli Power Plant 
WSP 
Abergelli Power Ltd. 
Project No 70034053 
 
November 2017 
4 
REQUIREMENT FOR CONSIDERATION 
OF CHP IN APPLICATIONS FOR 
DEVELOPMENT CONSENT ORDERS  
4.1.1 
In accordance with the Planning Act 2008 (as amended by the Localism Act 2011), the Secretary 
of State is required to determine an application for an order granting development consent (DCO) 
for an energy Nationally Significant Infrastructure Project (NSIP) in accordance with the 
‘Overarching National Policy Statement for Energy (EN-1)’ (2011, DECC) and the relevant 
technology-specific national policy statement (‘National Policy Statement for Fossil Fuel Electricity 
Generating Infrastructure (EN-2)’ in the case of this project). 
4.1.2 
The requirement or otherwise for the consideration and/or implementation of CHP, is detailed 
within Section 4.6 ‘Consideration of Combined Heat and Power (CHP)’ of EN-1.   
4.1.3 
EN-1 states (at paragraph 4.6.6) that “under Guidelines issued by DECC (then DTI) in 2006 [the 
Combined Heat and Power (CHP) Guidance1], any application to develop a thermal generating 
station under Section 36 of the Electricity Act 1989 must either include CHP or contain evidence 
that the possibilities for CHP have been fully explored to inform the [Secretary of State]’s 
consideration of the application,” and that the, “...same principle applies to [DCO applications] 
under the Planning Act 2008.” 
4.1.4 
EN-1 continues: “The [Secretary of State] should have regard to DECC’s Guidance, or any 
successor to it, when considering the CHP aspects of applications for thermal generating 
stations.”   
4.1.5 
The CHP Guidance (at paragraph 24) acknowledges, “...that decisions on major new power 
station investments, including the location and anticipated load duty of the station (e.g. base load, 
mid-merit, peak-lopping, support to local industry, etc.), will primarily be driven by the market...” 
4.1.6 
Paragraph 4.6.7 of EN-1 requires that developers, “...consider the opportunities for CHP from 
the very earliest point and it should be adopted as a criterion when considering locations 
for a project.”  The value of early consultation is also emphasised, in respect of the process of 
identification of potential heat users (customers), with bodies such as Local Enterprise 
Partnerships (LEPs) and Local Authorities.  
4.1.7 
In addition, as part of the examination process for the DCO application, Natural Resources Wales 
(NRW) will be consulted on the details of the Project and the content of the application, including 
the developer’s consideration of CHP.   
4.1.8 
Since publication of the CHP Guidance, Natural Resources Wales has published its own ‘CHP 
Ready Guidance for Combustion and Energy from Waste Plants’ (2014) (CHP-R Guidance).  This 
guidance states (in Section 1.2) that: “When consulted by the Planning Authorities on relevant 
consent applications for new plants, Natural Resources Wales will highlight the need for the plant 
to be CHP or CHP-R and will make reference to this CHP-R Guidance. Where a DCO is required, 
Natural Resources Wales will additionally comment on the results of the CHP Assessment.” 
                                                   
 
 
 
1 Guidance on Background Information to Accompany Notifications under Section 14 (1) of the 
Energy Act 1976 and Applications under Section 36 of the Electricity Act 1989, December 
2006. 
6 
 
Abergelli Power Plant 
WSP 
Abergelli Power Ltd. 
Project No 70034053 
 
November 2017 
4.1.9 
EN-1 (at paragraph 4.6.8) states: “If the proposal is for thermal generation without CHP, the 
applicant should: 
 Explain why CHP is not economically or practically feasible for example if there is a more 
efficient means of satisfying a nearby domestic heat demand; 
 Provide details of any potential future heat requirements in the area that the station could 
meet; and 
 Detail the provisions in the proposed scheme for ensuring any potential heat demand in the 
future can be exploited.” 
4.1.10 
The requirements for the provision of information identified in the above policies and guidance are 
addressed in the remainder of this document. 
 
 
7 
 
Abergelli Power Plant 
WSP 
Abergelli Power Ltd. 
Project No 70034053 
 
November 2017 
5 
COMPATIBILITY WITH PROVISION OF 
CHP  
5.1 
FEASIBILITY  
ECONOMIC FEASIBILITY 
5.1.1 
A primary requirement of a viable and effective CHP scheme is that it should be able to service 
the heat demand of any user connected to (and reliant on) the scheme. 
5.1.2 
The application of the CHP concept to an OCGT Peaking Plant is not economically feasible 
because the profile for the generation of electrical energy from the station cannot be guaranteed 
to coincide with the required heat demand profile of any potential consumer.  
5.1.3 
Because of its role in supporting the national electricity transmission system at times of peak or 
unexpected demand (including forced outages of other thermal generating stations), and in 
complementing the intermittent nature of renewable energy sources, the load regime for the 
OCGT station will be inherently unpredictable.  Periods of electricity generation from the Project 
will typically be for 1-2 hours on occasional days, and of limited duration over the year.  Given the 
proposed peaking role for the station, operation will be for no more than 1,500 hours per year on 
a five year rolling average out of a potential 8,760 hours in a year.  
5.1.4 
Heat demands, where they exist in the locality, are, by contrast, generally steady and persist over 
some 7 months of the year for residential heating or for the full year for industrial or commercial 
uses.  
5.1.5 
Any agreement drawn up between APL and local customers for the supply of heat from the Power 
Generation Plant would normally guarantee that heat would be available for certain periods of the 
year and in sufficient quantities to satisfy the agreed demand. This agreement would also 
normally include financial penalties if heat was not able to be supplied when contractually obliged 
to do so. 
5.1.6 
Therefore, the disconnect between the relatively constant demands for heat from residential and 
industrial users and the inherently unpredictable supply from a Peaking Plant such as this means 
that the CHP model is not applicable in this situation. 
TECHNICAL FEASIBILITY 
5.1.7 
Conventionally, gas fired CHP plants configured as a CCGT usually provide heating via the 
provision of steam extracted from the existing steam cycle.  As discussed previously, OCGTs do 
not produce steam as part of the electricity generating process and therefore the provision of CHP 
capability would require the addition of steam raising plant. The provision of CHP capability to a 
plant of this type would mean a significant increase in capital expenditure and additional technical 
challenges.  
5.1.8 
Compared to CCGT plant, OCGT units typically have a smaller capital cost per MW installed.  
This is largely because CCGT plants are more complex in their operation, requiring much more 
plant and equipment (e.g. a heat recovery steam generator (HRSG) and other steam raising 
plant) to operate. Although this increased capital cost is offset by gains in efficiency, CCGT plants 
are also typically designed to operate at continuous load, with fewer shut-downs and start-ups.  
8 
 
Abergelli Power Plant 
WSP 
Abergelli Power Ltd. 
Project No 70034053 
 
November 2017 
5.1.9 
CCGT plants typically have efficiencies of around 55-60% (compared with 35-40% for OCGT), 
maximum gains in efficiency, however, are only realised when the plant has reached its operating 
temperature and is running continuously at full load. 
5.1.10 
The Power Generation Plant will be a Peaking Plant which would operate for up to 1,500 hours 
per year on a five year rolling average. Most likely, this would be for short periods of time 
(typically 1-2 hours). Given that it can take up to 1 hour for a CCGT plant to reach full load, APL 
considers that the benefits in efficiencies which can be achieved by using a CCGT plant are very 
minimal and do not justify the additional capital costs of these plants, especially when considering 
the very short operating windows of the proposed OCGTs. 
5.1.11 
As OCGT plants are less complex in operation than CCGT or Reciprocating Gas Engine plant, 
they are also cheaper to construct, operate and maintain. 
5.1.12 
A further reduction in both cost and visual impact is realised when using an OCGT plant without 
steam raising plant. In a CCGT plant, the hot exhaust gases are routed through a HRSG, where 
they generate steam, which then drives a steam turbine. The extraction of energy from the hot 
exhaust gases to generate steam, means that they leave the HRSG stack at approximately 
100°C. 
5.1.13 
In comparison, the hot exhaust gases in an OCGT plant are discharged direct to the atmosphere 
at approximately 400°C-600°C  This means that the flue gases discharged from a OCGT plant are 
significantly hotter than those discharged from a CCGT plant, and therefore the gases are much 
more buoyant. Therefore a much lower stack is required for an OCGT plant to achieve the same 
dispersion height and rate of its exhaust gases as a CCGT plant. 
5.1.14 
Maintaining a low capital cost for the Project is essential as the Project will bid into the 
Government’s newly proposed Capacity Mechanism (CM). Plants selected to operate within the 
CM are chosen based on their ability to deliver fast reliable power at times of peak demand at the 
most economically advantageous price.  
5.1.15 
Therefore, significantly increasing capital expenditure on the Project severely limits the ability to 
successfully bid into the CM. If a higher bid price was successful, then these increased costs 
would be directly passed to the consumer.  
5.1.16 
OCGT technology is preferable at the Generating Equipment Site as the water requirement is 
significantly less than a CCGT, and could be met with the occasional delivery of water by tanker.  
5.1.17 
Based on the technical discussion above, it is considered that the proposed Project, comprising 
OCGT’s is not suitable to act as CHP plant or need to comply with the requirements of CHP-R.  
5.2 
MEETING FUTURE HEAT REQUIREMENTS 
5.2.1 
Industry, commerce and public services are all identified as being prospective users of CHP with 
the largest, most economic opportunities expected to be found in the industrial sectors where 
there are often large requirements for process heat.  
5.2.2 
Opportunities however, are also identified in commerce (e.g. hotels, leisure centres, large 
corporate buildings) and public services (e.g. hospitals, universities, prisons, defence installations, 
administrative offices and ancillary college or hospital accommodation).  There is also sometimes 
the potential for CHP where heat can be used in absorption chilling to deliver cooling in industry, 
commerce and the public sector. 
5.2.3 
Efficient CHP plants are usually designed to meet the demands of an identified heat load.  
Electrical power generation is utilised, where applicable for local process plant, and the balance 
exported to the grid.  As noted previously, the Power Generation Plant could only service an 
intermittent heat source. 
9 
 
Abergelli Power Plant 
WSP 
Abergelli Power Ltd. 
Project No 70034053 
 
November 2017 
5.2.4 
If a satisfactory steady heat load exists, the potential benefits of CHP schemes can be realised 
with electricity being generated in direct proportion to the heat load. The size of a CHP scheme, 
however, is determined by the local heat load which can be supplied at a common point. 
5.2.5 
For this reason the majority of CHP schemes are small (less than 5 MWe).  These small units can 
offer high fuel utilisation when fully supplying the heat load. However during periods when the 
heat load is low or absent, the electrical efficiency of these units is rather low compared to 
conventional power stations. 
5.3 
PROVISIONS FOR ENSURING FUTURE HEAT DEMAND CAN BE 
EXPLOITED 
5.3.1 
Because of the unpredictable operating regime required of a peaking power station to flexibly 
support national grid demand, the viability of supplying occasional heat to future consumers in the 
area is negligible. 
5.3.2 
Moreover, the inclusion of provisions to ensure that future heat demand can be exploited in the 
equipment proposed for Power Generation Plant would increase capital expenditure of the Project 
further.  
5.3.3 
Such provisions could include space in the plant layout to install steam raising plant after the GT 
exhaust, however, this is not possible due to the constrained nature of the site. 
 
 
10 
 
Abergelli Power Plant 
WSP 
Abergelli Power Ltd. 
Project No 70034053 
 
November 2017 
6 
POSSIBILITIES FOR CHP  
6.1 
INITIAL CHP INVESTIGATION 
6.1.1 
As per Section 5.3 of the Environmental Statement, a detailed feasibility assessment was 
undertaken which considered a range of sites around England and Wales to support gas fired 
power generation plants. 
6.1.2 
To understand the likely heat demands in the area local to the identified Project Site, an 
assessment of the BEIS online heat map2 was carried out.  
6.1.3 
Figure 6-1 and Table 6-1 below show the results of the assessment of the BEIS Online Heat Map 
tool. The Natural Resources Wales guidance suggests that for all plants less than 300 MW a 
search area of 10 km is used. No individual large industrial heat loads were identified within this 
area. 
Figure 6-1 Approximate total heat load within a 10 km radius around the Project site 
 
 
                                                   
 
 
 
2 http://chptools.decc.gov.uk/developmentmap/ 
11 
 
Abergelli Power Plant 
WSP 
Abergelli Power Ltd. 
Project No 70034053 
 
November 2017 
6.1.4 
Table 6-1 shows the potential heat loads within the 10 km search area. It shows that the largest 
potential heat users are domestic with an approximate requirement of 795 MW. The second 
largest potential heat users are ‘Government Buildings’ with an approximate requirement of 44 
MW; the third largest potential heat users are ‘Small Industrial’ with an approximate requirement 
of 39MW. Remaining heat requirements of other potential users in the area range from less than 
1MW to approximately 35MW. 
Table 6-1 Total heat loads within the CHP search area 
 
SECTOR 
SHARE 
TOTAL MWH 
Communications and 
Transport  
0.04% 
713 
Commercial Offices 
0.61% 
11,516 
Domestic 
85.87% 
1,621,774 
Education 
2.46% 
46,376 
Government Buildings 
0.52% 
9,767 
Hotels 
0.54% 
10,278 
Large Industrial 
4.74% 
89,528 
Health 
0.39% 
7,318 
Other 
0.21% 
4,040 
Small Industrial 
3.17% 
59,809 
Retail 
1.04% 
19,672 
Sport and Leisure 
0.25% 
4,759 
Warehouses 
0.17% 
3,123 
Total heat load in area: 
1,888,673 
 
6.1.5 
Although there appears to be a large heat load in the area for domestic heat users, this is unlikely 
to represent a viable CHP opportunity in the area based on, principally, the discussions presented 
earlier in this document under ‘Feasibility’ regarding intermittent loads from Peaking Plant and 
distance from the site.  In addition to these discussions, however, the comparatively low density 
and age of housing in the region would make installing a new district heating network technically 
challenging and thus have associated cost implications.  
6.1.6 
The results of studies undertaken by APL, which were informed by the changes as a result of the 
Electricity Market Reform and the Government consultations on the delivery mechanisms 
provided by the Energy Act 2013, have formed the basis for the selection of the Peaking Plant 
concept for the Project. 
6.1.7 
The Project is being developed to provide vital support to the National Electricity Transmission 
System as electricity demand increases and the nature of supply of electricity changes to 
incorporate a likely greater share of renewables in the generation mix. 
6.1.8 
Therefore, whilst consideration of the potential for the provision of CHP was considered as part of 
the site selection studies, the intentions for the Project meant that the provision of CHP was not 
the principal factor in the site selection process.  It is, however, considered that this is in 
accordance with paragraph 2.2.1 of NPS EN-2 which states: "it is for energy companies to decide 
which applications to bring forward and the government does not seek to direct applicants to 
particular sites for fossil fuel generating stations." 
 
 
12 
 
Abergelli Power Plant 
WSP 
Abergelli Power Ltd. 
Project No 70034053 
 
November 2017 
7 
CONCLUSIONS  
7.1.1 
Based on the information above, it can be concluded that there are four prohibitive barriers to the 
application of CHP for the Project: 
 There is no existing regional heat market. From local searches, there are no suitable heat 
users of applicable scale available and no heat users able to accept the unpredictable supply 
of heat available. 
 No potential future heat requirements in the area have been identified and none that would 
match the operational pattern of a Peaking Plant. 
 The intermittent and peaking modes of operation of OCGT are incompatible with the likely 
continuous demands of heat users. Because of the lack of applicable heat demands, 
provisions in the proposed scheme for exploiting any potential heat demand in the future can 
be excluded. 
 OCGT plants do not produce steam as part of the electricity generating process and therefore 
the provision of CHP capability would require the addition of steam raising plant resulting in 
an increased capacity tariff (£/kW/year) and additional technical challenges. 
7.1.2 
Accordingly, this Design Note on CHP demonstrates that the Project does not need to undertake 
further investigation of CHP for the proposed thermal generating station, and provides evidence 
as to why the proposed thermal generating station should be excluded from being CHP- Ready.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
