THIS CIRCULAR AND ANY ACCOMPANYING DOCUMENTS ARE IMPORTANT AND REQUIRE
YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION. If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take, you are
recommended to seek your own independent financial advice from your stockbroker, bank manager,
solicitor, accountant or other independent financial adviser authorised under the Financial Services and
Markets Act 2000 if you are resident in the United Kingdom or, if not, from another appropriately
authorised independent financial adviser.
If you have sold or transferred all of your holding of Ordinary Shares in Drax Group plc, please forward
this Circular and the accompanying documents (but not the personalised Form of Proxy or Form of
Direction), as soon as possible, to the purchaser or the transferee or to the person through whom the
sale or transfer was effected for transmission to the purchaser or the transferee.
Any person (including, without limitation, custodians, nominees and trustees) who may have a
contractual or legal obligation or may otherwise intend to forward this Circular to any jurisdiction
outside the United Kingdom should seek appropriate advice before taking any action. The distribution
of this Circular and any accompanying documents into jurisdictions other than the United Kingdom may
be restricted by law. Any person not in the United Kingdom into whose possession this Circular and
any accompanying documents come should inform themselves about and observe any such
restrictions. Any failure to comply with these restrictions may constitute a violation of the securities
laws of any such jurisdiction.
You should read the whole of this Circular and all documents incorporated into it by reference
in their entirety. Your attention is drawn to the letter from Philip Cox CBE, the Chairman of Drax
Group plc, which is set out in Part I of this Circular and which contains a unanimous
recommendation from the Board of Drax Group plc that you vote in favour of the Resolution to
be proposed at the General Meeting referred to below. Part II of this Circular entitled “Risk
Factors” includes a discussion of certain risk factors which should be taken into account when
considering the matters referred to in this Circular.
Drax Group plc
(Registered in England and Wales with registered number 5562053)
Proposed acquisition by Drax Group plc of ScottishPower Generation Limited
and
Notice of General Meeting
A notice convening a General Meeting of Drax Group plc to be held at the offices of FTI Consulting,
200 Aldersgate Street, London EC1A 4HD on 21 December 2018 at 10.00am is set out at the end of
this Circular.
For Shareholders, a Form of Proxy for use at the General Meeting is enclosed with this Circular.
Whether or not you propose to attend the General Meeting, you are requested to complete and submit
a Form of Proxy to the Company’s Registrars, Equiniti Limited, Proxy Department, Aspect House,
Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA to arrive by no later than 10.00am on 19 December
2018.
If you hold shares in CREST, you may appoint a proxy by completing and transmitting a CREST Proxy
Instruction to Equiniti Limited (CREST participant ID RA19) so that it is received by no later than
10.00am on 19 December 2018.
The return of a completed Form of Proxy or CREST Proxy Instruction will not prevent you from
attending the General Meeting and voting in person if you wish to do so.
For Share Incentive Plan participants, a Form of Direction is enclosed with this Circular and, if used,
should be sent to the trustee, Equiniti Share Plan Trustee Limited at Aspect House, Spencer Road,
Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA, to arrive by no later than 10.00am on 17 December 2018. As a
participant in the Share Incentive Plan you are unable to attend the General Meeting unless you hold
shares registered in your own name.
This document is a circular relating to the Acquisition which has been prepared in accordance with the
Listing Rules and approved by the Financial Conduct Authority.
No person has been authorised to give any information or make any representations other than those
contained in this Circular and, if given or made, such information or representations must not be relied
on as having been so authorised. The delivery of this Circular shall not, under any circumstances,
create any implication that there has been no change in the affairs of Drax Group plc since the date of
this Circular or that the information in it is correct as of any subsequent time.
J.P. Morgan Securities plc (which conducts its UK investment banking activities as J.P. Morgan
Cazenove), which is authorised and regulated in the United Kingdom by the Financial Conduct
Authority, is acting exclusively for Drax and for no one else in connection with the Acquisition and will
not regard any other person (whether or not a recipient of this Circular) as a client in relation to the
Acquisition and will not be responsible to anyone other than Drax for providing the protections afforded
to customers of J.P. Morgan Cazenove or for affording advice in relation to the Acquisition, the
contents of this Circular or any transaction, arrangement or other matter referred to in this Circular.
Save for the responsibilities and liabilities, if any, of J.P. Morgan Cazenove under FSMA or the
regulatory regime established under FSMA, J.P. Morgan Cazenove assumes no responsibility
whatsoever and makes no representations or warranties, express or implied, in relation to the contents
of this Circular, including its accuracy, completeness or verification or for any other statement made or
purported to be made by Drax, or on Drax’s behalf, or by J.P. Morgan Cazenove, or on J.P. Morgan
Cazenove’s behalf, and nothing contained in this Circular is, or shall be, relied on as a promise or
representation in this respect, whether as to the past or the future, in connection with Drax or the
Acquisition. J.P. Morgan Cazenove disclaims to the fullest extent permitted by law all and any
responsibility and liability whether arising in tort, contract or otherwise which it might otherwise be
found to have in respect of this Circular.
This Circular contains forward-looking statements relating to the Drax Group, the ScottishPower
Generation Group, the Enlarged Group and the Acquisition. Statements containing the words “intends”,
“believes”, “anticipates”, “may”, “will”, “estimates”, “expects” and “outlook” and words of similar
meaning are
forward-looking.
By
their
nature,
all forward-looking statements
are subject to
assumptions, risks and uncertainties. Although Drax believes that the expectations reflected in these
forward-looking statements are reasonable, there can be no assurance that these expectations will
prove to have been correct and because these statements involve risks and uncertainties, actual
results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by those forward-looking statements. The
preceding sentence does not qualify the statement in section 9 of Part VIII (Additional Information) of
this Circular. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of the particular statement.
Drax does not undertake any obligation publicly to update or revise any forward-looking statement as a
result of new information, future events or other information, although such forward-looking statements
will be publicly updated if required by the Financial Conduct Authority, the Listing Rules and the
Disclosure and Transparency Rules, the rules of the London Stock Exchange or by applicable law.
Percentages in tables have been rounded and accordingly may not add up to 100 per cent. Certain
financial data have also been rounded. As a result of this rounding, the totals of data presented in this
Circular may vary slightly from the actual arithmetic totals of such data.
Capitalised terms have the meaning ascribed to them in Part IX (Definitions) of this Circular.
2
CONTENTS
Expected Timetable of Principal Events
4
Directors, Company Secretary, Registered Office and Advisers
5
Part I – Letter from the Chairman of Drax Group plc
6
Part II – Risk Factors
14
Part III – Information on the ScottishPower Generation Group
21
Part IV – Principal Terms of the Acquisition
23
Part V – Historical Financial Information relating to the ScottishPower Generation Group
27
Part VI – Unaudited Pro Forma Financial Information relating to the Enlarged Group
51
Part VII – Profit Forecasts
58
Part VIII – Additional Information
61
Part IX – Definitions
77
Part X – Notice of General Meeting
83
3
EXPECTED TIMETABLE OF PRINCIPAL EVENTS
Date of this Circular
5 December 2018
Latest time and date for receipt of Forms of Direction
10.00am on 17 December 2018
Latest time and date for receipt of Forms of Proxy or Crest Proxy
Instructions
10.00am on 19 December 2018
General Meeting
10.00am on 21 December 2018
Expected date of Completion
31 December 2018
NOTES:
Unless otherwise stated, references to times in this Circular are to London time.
Future dates are indicative only and are subject to change by Drax, in which event details of the new
times and dates will be notified to the FCA and, where appropriate, Shareholders.
4
DIRECTORS, COMPANY SECRETARY, REGISTERED OFFICE AND ADVISERS
Directors
Philip Cox CBE
Chairman
Will Gardiner
Group Chief Executive Officer
Andy Koss
Chief Executive Officer, Drax Power
David Lindsell
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
Tim Cobbold
Independent Non-Executive Director
Tony Thorne
Independent Non-Executive Director
Nicola Hodson
Independent Non-Executive Director
David Nussbaum
Independent Non-Executive Director
Vanessa Simms
Independent Non-Executive Director
General Counsel and
Group Company
Secretary
David McCallum
Registered office
Drax Power Station
Selby
North Yorkshire YO8 8PH
Sponsor and financial
adviser
J.P. Morgan Cazenove
25 Bank Street
Canary Wharf
London E14 5JP
Legal adviser
Slaughter and May
One Bunhill Row
London EC1Y 8YY
Reporting accountants
Deloitte LLP
1 New Street Square
London EC4A 3HQ
Registrars
Equiniti Limited
Proxy Department
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
5
PART I
LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF DRAX GROUP PLC
DRAX GROUP PLC
(Incorporated and registered in England and Wales with registered number 5562053)
Registered office:
Drax Group plc
Drax Power Station
Selby
North Yorkshire YO8 8PH
Directors:
Philip Cox CBE
Chairman
Will Gardiner
Group Chief Executive Officer
Andy Koss
Chief Executive Officer, Drax Power
David Lindsell
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
Tim Cobbold
Independent Non-Executive Director
Tony Thorne
Independent Non-Executive Director
Nicola Hodson
Independent Non-Executive Director
David Nussbaum
Independent Non-Executive Director
Vanessa Simms
Independent Non-Executive Director
5 December 2018
Dear Shareholder,
Proposed Acquisition of ScottishPower Generation Limited
1.
Introduction
On 16 October 2018, Drax announced that it had agreed to acquire ScottishPower’s portfolio of
pumped storage, hydro and gas-fired generation assets for £702 million in cash from Iberdrola
S.A. Drax will be acquiring the ScottishPower Generation Group, which comprises SPGEN and its
wholly owned subsidiary, SMW. On 3 December 2018, Drax announced that it had reached
agreement with Iberdrola S.A. on revised terms for the Acquisition, to reflect the suspension of
payments under the Capacity Market with effect from 15 November 2018 following the ruling of the
General Court of the European Union.
The Acquisition constitutes a Class 1 transaction under the Listing Rules. As a consequence,
Completion of the Acquisition is conditional on the Acquisition receiving the approval of
Shareholders. Accordingly, you will find set out at the end of this Circular a notice convening a
General Meeting to be held at the offices of FTI Consulting, 200 Aldersgate Street, London EC1A
4HD at 10.00am on 21 December 2018.
Completion of the Acquisition is expected (subject to the approval by Shareholders) to take place
on 31 December 2018.
I am writing to you on behalf of the Board to give you details of the Acquisition, including the
background to and reasons for the Acquisition, and to explain why the Board considers the
Acquisition to be in the best interests of Drax and its Shareholders as a whole.
You should read the whole of this Circular and not rely solely on the summarised information
contained in this Part I (Letter from the Chairman of Drax Group plc).
2.
Background to and reasons for the Acquisition
Background
The assets included in the Portfolio are Cruachan pumped storage hydro (440MW), run-of-river
hydro locations at Galloway and Lanark (126MW), four CCGT stations, Damhead Creek (805MW),
Rye House (715MW), Shoreham (420MW) and Blackburn Mill (60MW), and a biomass-from-waste
facility (Daldowie).
6
As the UK energy system transitions towards renewable technologies, the demand for flexible,
secure energy sources is set to grow. The Board believes there is a compelling logic in adding
further flexible sources of power to Drax’s offering, which will accelerate our ability to deliver our
strategic vision of a lower-carbon, lower-cost energy future for the UK. The Acquisition will allow
Drax to make the most of growing opportunities in system support for the UK energy system, and
to diversify its generation capacity in order to become a multi-site, multi-technology operator. The
Board believes that the Acquisition makes great financial and strategic sense, and expects to
deliver material value to our shareholders through long-term earnings and attractive returns.
Key benefits of the Acquisition
A leading provider of flexible, low-carbon and renewable generation in the UK
The UK has a target to reduce carbon emissions by 80 per cent. by 2050. The transition to a
low-carbon economy requires decarbonisation of heating, transport and generation. This will in
turn require additional low-carbon sources of generation to be developed in the UK. The
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change projects that by 2050 as much as 85 per cent. of
future global electricity generation could come from renewable sources – predominantly wind and
solar. This transition will lead, at times, to high levels of power price volatility and increasing
demand for system support services. Managing an energy system with these characteristics will
only be possible if it is supported by the right mix of flexible assets to manage volatility, balance
the system and provide the crucial non-generation services which a stable energy system
requires.
The Acquisition is closely aligned with this structural need and the operation of Drax’s existing
biomass generation and gas options. The combination of the Portfolio and our existing assets will
allow the Drax Group to provide more of the flexibility increasingly required by the UK energy
system to enable higher levels of intermittent renewable generation while also offering the Drax
Group increased exposure to the growing need for system support and power price volatility.
Increased earnings potential aligned with the Drax Group’s strategy and UK energy needs
The Acquisition is in line with the Drax Group’s strategy to create value from flexible, low-carbon
and renewable generation. The Acquisition will provide Drax with an increased level of low-carbon
and renewable capacity, and contract-based system support revenues, providing improved
earnings visibility. This positions Drax to capture value by supporting the system operator in
managing the impact of the UK’s transition to a low-carbon economy, as the share of wind and
solar generation increases.
High-quality earnings and returns
For the year ended 31 December 2017, the Portfolio generated EBITDA of £36 million. EBITDA in
2019 is expected to be higher due to incremental contracted capacity payments (c.£42 million), no
availability restrictions (Cruachan’s access to the UK grid during 2017 was limited by network
transformer works) (c.£8 million), a lower level of corporate cost charged to the Portfolio
(c.£9 million) and revenues from system support services and current power prices. Pumped
storage and hydro activities represent a significant proportion of the earnings associated with the
Portfolio, with the pumped storage and hydro assets, in the opinion of the Directors, representing
most of the value of the Acquisition. When combined with renewable earnings and system support
income from existing biomass generation, the Acquisition is expected to lead to an overall
increase in the quality of earnings from the Enlarged Group (although in the short-term earnings
will be affected by uncertainty related to the Capacity Market). Further information on the
preparation of the 2017 EBITDA can be found in Part V (Historical Financial Information relating to
the ScottishPower Generation Group).
Based on the Board’s expectations of the position that is most likely to be achieved in relation to
the Capacity Market following the Capacity Market Ruling (the most likely outcome being that the
European Commission will re-approve the existing Capacity Market in its current form or a broadly
similar form. Further information in this regard can be found in section 3 of this Part I (Letter from
the Chairman of Drax Group plc)), the Board believes the Acquisition represents an attractive
opportunity to create significant value for Shareholders and is expected to deliver returns
significantly in excess of the Drax Group’s weighted average cost of capital. The Acquisition
strengthens the Drax Group’s ability to pay a growing and sustainable dividend. Drax remains
committed to its capital allocation policy and to its current £50 million share buy-back programme,
with around £43 million of shares (including dealing and associated costs) purchased as at the
Latest Practicable Date.
7
The Board has considered other possible outcomes for the Capacity Market which are less likely
but may ensue and if they do the financial effects of the Acquisition may be adversely affected.
The Board believes that if the more plausible of these other outcomes were to ensue the returns
from the Acquisition would still be in excess of the Drax Group’s weighted average cost of capital.
The Board has not attempted to quantify the effects if the less plausible of these other outcomes
were to ensue, if there were no Capacity Market or similar mechanism, or if significant structural
changes were made to the Capacity Market, all of which it views as a remote possibility. The
Board notes that in those circumstances it believes the loss or reduction of Capacity Market
payments could be mitigated by increases in wholesale power prices.
Based on recent power and commodity prices and assuming that all contracted capacity payments
are received (although this is subject to material uncertainty as described below), the Portfolio is
expected to generate EBITDA in 2019 in a range of £90 million to £110 million,1 from gross profits
of £155 million to £175 million, of which around two thirds is expected to come from
non-commodity market sources, including system support services, capacity payments, ROCs and
Daldowie. Due to the contract-based nature of many of these services, Drax expects to improve
earnings visibility through non-commodity earnings streams, while retaining significant opportunity
to benefit from power price volatility. If, in light of the Capacity Market Ruling, the contracted
capacity payments payable in 2019 in respect of the Portfolio are not received or accrued in 2019,
the expected EBITDA for the Portfolio in 2019 would be reduced by up to £47 million (from a range
of £90 million to £110 million) down to a range of £43 million to £63 million before considering
mitigating factors. Further information on the preparation of the profit forecasts above can be
found in Part VII (Profit Forecasts).
Diversified generation and portfolio benefits
The Acquisition accelerates Drax’s development from a single-site generation business into a
multi-site, multi-technology operator. With the acquisition of the Portfolio, a fall in gas prices could
be mitigated by an increase in gas-fired generation reflecting the relative dispatch economics of
the different technologies.
Drax also expects to benefit from the management of generation across a broader asset base,
leveraging the Drax Group’s expertise in the operation, trading and optimisation of large
dispatchable generation. Drax believes that the team operating the Portfolio has a strong
engineering culture which is closely aligned with the Drax model and will enhance the Drax
Group’s strong capabilities across engineering disciplines. About 260 operational roles will transfer
to Drax as part of the Acquisition, complementing and reinforcing Drax’s existing engineering and
operational capabilities.
3.
Impact of the Capacity Market Ruling on the Acquisition
On 15 November 2018, the General Court of the European Union issued a ruling annulling the
European Commission’s 2014 decision not to undertake a more detailed investigation of the UK
Government’s scheme establishing the Capacity Market (the “Capacity Market Ruling”). The
Capacity Market Ruling imposed a “standstill period” while the European Commission completes a
further State aid investigation into the Capacity Market. Payments to generators scheduled under
existing capacity agreements and the holding of future capacity auctions have been suspended.
Contracted capacity payments make up a significant proportion of the earnings of the
ScottishPower Generation Group, with many of the assets in the Portfolio benefitting from the right
to receive such payments under existing capacity agreements. For the period from 1 January 2019
to 30 September 2022, the Cruachan pumped storage hydro asset has contracted capacity
payments of £29 million, the Galloway run-of-river hydro assets have contracted capacity
payments of £5 million, and the Damhead Creek, Rye House, Shoreham and Blackburn CCGT
assets have contracted capacity payments of £122 million in aggregate.
The Board notes the UK Government’s statement in response to the Capacity Market Ruling that it
is working closely with the European Commission to aid their investigation and to seek a timely
State aid re-approval decision for the Capacity Market. The UK Government also confirmed that
the Capacity Market Ruling does not change its belief that Capacity Market auctions are the most
1
2019 EBITDA is stated before any allocation of Group overheads (as these will be an allocation of the existing Drax Group
cost base which is not expected to increase as a result of the acquisition of the Portfolio).
8
appropriate way to deliver secure electricity supplies at the lowest cost. The UK Government also
noted that the Capacity Market Ruling was decided on procedural grounds and did not constitute a
direct challenge to the design of the Capacity Market mechanism itself.2
National Grid has confirmed that the T-4 and T-1 auctions for the years 2022/23 and 2019/20,
which were scheduled for February 2019 and January 2019 respectively, have been postponed in
light of the “standstill period”. National Grid has advised capacity agreement holders that the UK
Government is doing everything in its power to re-obtain State aid approval as soon as possible,
and that the UK Government intends to seek a separate State aid approval to run a one-off
“replacement” T-1 Auction in 2019. The Board notes that National Grid has also confirmed that it
intends to run the postponed T-4 for 2022/23 as a T-3 Auction in the 2019 auction round, subject
to the European Commission completing its formal investigation and providing State aid approval
for the Capacity Market.3
The UK Government confirmed it is working to reinstate the full Capacity Market regime and is in
discussions with the European Commission regarding the swiftest means of doing so.
Based on the information available to it and legal advice it has received, the Board believes the
most likely outcome is that the European Commission will re-approve the existing Capacity Market
in its current form or a broadly similar form. The Board recognises there is some uncertainty
whether, if the Capacity Market is reinstated in its current form, the contracted capacity payments
for the Capacity Market year 2018/2019 which are currently suspended will be paid by the UK
Government. To mitigate the risk that these payments are not received for the 2018/2019 Capacity
Market year, Drax has agreed with Iberdrola S.A. certain amendments to the Acquisition
Agreement signed on 16 October 2018. A summary of the principal terms of the Acquisition (as
amended) is set out below in section 4 of this Part I (Letter from the Chairman of Drax Group plc).
The Board believes that the arrangements provided in the amended Acquisition Agreement
mitigate in economic terms the majority of the risk that those suspended capacity payments will
not be paid.
The Board believes that the most likely outcome after 2019 is that existing capacity agreements
for the period to 2022 will be honoured but recognises that a range of other outcomes is possible,
from re-running the auctions for delivery years 2019/2020, 2020/2021 and 2021/2022 to a
significant revision of the structure of the Capacity Market. In each case, the exact impact of these
changes cannot be predicted. However, the Board notes the UK Government’s commitment to
ensuring there is a capacity market in some form.
4.
Summary of the principal terms of the Acquisition
Acquisition Agreement
The Acquisition Agreement was entered into on 16 October 2018 between Drax Smart Generation
and the Seller and was amended on 3 December 2018. Pursuant to the Acquisition Agreement,
the Seller has agreed to sell, and Drax Smart Generation has agreed to acquire, the whole of the
issued share capital of SPGEN for £702 million, subject to certain customary adjustments in
respect of cash, debt and working capital.
The Acquisition is conditional on: (a) the approval of the Acquisition by Shareholders, which is
required as the Acquisition constitutes a Class 1 transaction under the Listing Rules; and (b) the
CMA having indicated in response to pre-Completion engagement by Drax that it has no further
questions at that stage or the CMA having provided a decision that the Acquisition will not be
subject to a reference under the UK merger control regime. On 1 November 2018, the CMA
indicated to Drax that it had no further questions at that stage, which resulted in this condition
being satisfied. Completion is therefore currently expected to occur on 31 December 2018
assuming that the shareholder approval condition is satisfied by that date.
Drax Smart Generation has the right to terminate the Acquisition Agreement upon the occurrence
of a material reduction in available generation capacity at any of the Cruachan, Galloway and
Lanark or Damhead Creek facilities which subsists, or is reasonably likely to subsist, for a
2
The UK Government’s press release can be found at https://www.gov.uk/government/collections/electricity-market-reform-
capacity-market.
3
The published advice of National Grid in relation to the Capacity Market Ruling can be found at
https://www.emrdeliverybody.com/cm/home.aspx and
https://www.emrdeliverybody.com/Prequalification/
Advice%20for%20capacity%20agreement%20holders%20and%20capacity%20market%20applicants%20v1.1.pdf.
9
continuous period of three months. The right of Drax Smart Generation to terminate in these
circumstances is subject to the Seller’s right to defer Completion if the relevant material reduction
in available generation capacity can be resolved by end of the month following the anticipated date
of Completion.
A break fee of £14.6 million (equal to 1 per cent. of Drax’s market capitalisation at close of
business on 15 October 2018, being the day before announcement of the Acquisition) is payable if
the Shareholders fail to approve the Acquisition, save where this is as a result of a material
reduction in available generation capacity as described above.
The Seller has given certain customary covenants in relation to the period between signing of the
Acquisition Agreement and Completion, including to carry on the SPGEN business in the ordinary
and usual course. The Seller will also carry out certain reorganisation steps prior to Completion.
The Seller has provided customary warranties, as well as indemnities in respect of certain specific
matters, including for any losses associated with the reorganisation referred to above. A
customary tax covenant is also provided in the Acquisition Agreement.
Drax Group Holdings has agreed to guarantee the payment obligations of Drax Smart Generation
under the Acquisition Agreement. Scottish Power UK plc has agreed to guarantee the payment
obligations of the Seller under the Acquisition Agreement.
Arrangements in respect of Capacity Market Payments
Drax Smart Generation and the Seller have agreed that Capacity Market payments due to the
ScottishPower Generation Group in respect of the period from 1 October 2018 to Completion that
are received by the Drax Group after Completion will be passed through to the Seller.
Drax Smart Generation and the Seller have also agreed to share the risk in relation to Capacity
Market payments due to the ScottishPower Generation Group in respect of the period from
Completion to 30 September 2019. If less than 100 per cent. of these Capacity Market payments
is received and the gross profit of the ScottishPower Generation Group in 2019 (the “2019 Gross
Profit”) is lower than expected, Drax Smart Generation will receive a payment from the Seller up
to £26 million. The mechanism also gives the Seller the opportunity to earn an upside of up to the
same amount if less than 100 per cent. of these Capacity Market payments is received but the
ScottishPower Generation Group performs better than expected in 2019.
Under these arrangements, if less than 100 per cent. of these Capacity Market payments is
received:
(A) the Seller will make a payment to Drax Smart Generation if the 2019 Gross Profit is less than
£155 million. The payment will be an amount equal to 72.2 per cent. of any shortfall in the
2019 Gross Profit below £155 million. The amount of the payment is capped at the lower of
the amount in respect of Capacity Market payments due to the ScottishPower Generation
Group but not received and £26 million; and
(B) Drax Smart Generation will make a payment to the Seller if the 2019 Gross Profit is more than
£165 million. The payment will be an amount equal to 72.2 per cent. of any amount by which
the 2019 Gross Profit exceeds £165 million. The amount of the payment is capped at the
lower of the amount in respect of Capacity Market payments due to the ScottishPower
Generation Group but not received by the Drax Group and £26 million.
A provisional payment will be made in December 2019, with a true-up payment to be made when
the audited accounts of the ScottishPower Generation Group for the year ending 31 December
2019 have been finalised. If, subsequent to such settlement, the Drax Group receives any
Capacity Market Payments in respect of the period 1 January 2019 to 30 September 2019, Drax
will pay 72.2 per cent. of those amounts to the Seller capped at the amount paid by the Seller to
Drax Smart Generation under the mechanism above.
Any payments pursuant to the mechanism above will be cash adjustments to the consideration
and not included in EBITDA.
Further details of the Acquisition Agreement are set out in section 1 of Part IV (Principal Terms of
the Acquisition).
Transitional Services Agreement
The Seller and SPGEN will enter into a transitional services agreement effective at Completion.
Further details of the Transitional Services Agreement are set out in section 2 of Part IV (Principal
Terms of the Acquisition).
10
5.
Financing of the Acquisition
Drax Corporate has entered into the Acquisition Facility Agreement, a fully underwritten
£725 million secured acquisition debt facility to finance the Acquisition, with a term of twelve
months from the first date of utilisation of the facility (with a seven-month extension option) and
interest payable at a rate of LIBOR plus the applicable margin. The margin will step up after three,
six, twelve and seventeen months following the first date of utilisation of the facility, and ranges
from 0.75 per cent. per annum to 2.75 per cent. per annum. The facility is competitively priced and
below Drax’s current cost of debt.
Drax will consider potential options for its long-term financing strategy in 2019. Assuming
performance in line with current expectations and if all Capacity Market Payments due in 2019 are
received before the end of 2019, net debt to EBITDA is expected to fall to Drax’s long-term target
of around 2x by the end of 2019. If Capacity Market payments are not received in 2019, net debt
to EBITDA is expected to fall to around 2x during 2020. Following announcement of the
Acquisition on 16th October 2018, S&P and Fitch affirmed Drax Group Holding’s corporate rating of
BB+.
Drax has hedged 1TWh of the commodity exposures in the Portfolio ahead of Completion.
Further details of the Acquisition Facility Agreement are set out in paragraph 7.1(B) of Part VIII
(Additional Information).
6.
Current trading and outlook
6.1 Drax
Following the Capacity Market Ruling, £7 million of contracted capacity payments relating to 2018,
principally in relation to Drax’s remaining two coal-fired units, will not be paid as and when
expected. Taking this into account and following Drax’s recent good trading performance and
assuming continued good operational availability for the remainder of the year, Drax’s full year
EBITDA outlook remains in line with previous expectations, with net debt to EBITDA now expected
to be around 1.5x for the full year, excluding the impact of the Acquisition.
Further information on Drax’s 2018 Profit Forecast (including the basis of preparation and the
underlying assumptions) is set out in Part VII (Profit Forecasts).
6.2 ScottishPower Generation Group
Throughout 2018, availability for the Portfolio has been ahead of ScottishPower Generation Group
management expectations, allowing the assets to benefit from rising short-term power prices and
balancing market activities when providing system support services. Spark spreads margins from
gas generation were lower reflecting rising gas and carbon prices resulting in lower year-on-year
output.
The Portfolio’s contracted capacity payments for the 1 October 2018 to 31 December 2018 period,
which have been suspended following the Capacity Market Ruling, are expected to be around
£12.7 million gross.
The Portfolio is expected, based on recent power and commodity prices and assuming that all
contracted capacity payments are received (although this is subject to material uncertainty as
described below), to generate, for the year ending 31 December 2019, EBITDA in a range of
£90-110 million, and gross profits of £155 million to £175 million, of which around two thirds is
expected to come from non-commodity market sources, including system support services,
capacity payments, Daldowie and ROCs. Pumped storage and hydro activities represent a
significant proportion of the earnings associated with the portfolio. If, in light of the Capacity Market
Ruling, the contracted capacity payments payable in 2019 in respect of the Portfolio are not
received or accrued in 2019, the expected EBITDA for the Portfolio in 2019 would be reduced by
up to £47 million (from a range of £90 million to £110) million down to a range of £43 million to
£63 million before considering mitigating factors.
Further information on the 2019 Profit Forecast (including the basis of preparation and the
underlying assumptions and further details on the sensitivity of this profit forecast to the impact of
the Capacity Market Ruling) is set out in Part VII (Profit Forecasts).
11
7.
Costs and risks relating to the Acquisition
Whilst the Board considers the Acquisition to be in the best interests of Drax and its Shareholders
as a whole, there are a number of potential risks and uncertainties that Shareholders should
consider before voting on the Resolution. Your attention is drawn to the further discussion of
certain of these risks and uncertainties set out in Part II (Risk Factors).
In particular, the Capacity Market Ruling has created uncertainty in relation to a significant
proportion of the Portfolio’s anticipated earnings. While the beliefs set out in section 3 of this Part I
(Letter from the Chairman of Drax Group plc) reflect the Board’s best estimate of the likely
outcome of the European Commission’s re-investigation of the Capacity Market, the results of this
re-investigation, which will turn on a detailed analysis of the Capacity Market as well as the
specific information received during the European Commission’s consultation of interested parties,
are uncertain.
Following Completion, the ScottishPower Generation Group will be integrated into the Drax Group
and, although Drax is developing a detailed integration plan, as with any integration exercise this
process may present both expected and unexpected challenges and costs. In addition, it is
possible that, even after integration of the businesses, the expected benefits of the Acquisition
might take longer than anticipated to realise or might not be realised.
As set out above, the Enlarged Group will have further indebtedness due to the new financing
under the Acquisition Facility Agreement and will be required to service interest payments in
respect of this. Following announcement of the Acquisition on 16 October 2018, S&P and Fitch
affirmed Drax Group Holding’s corporate rating of BB+.
Drax will also incur a number of other customary costs in relation to the Acquisition more generally
(including legal, accounting, financial adviser, sponsor and other transaction fees), some of which
will be payable regardless of whether the Acquisition reaches Completion.
8.
General Meeting
Set out at the end of this Circular is a Notice convening the General Meeting which is to be held at
the offices of FTI Consulting, 200 Aldersgate Street, London EC1A 4HD on 21 December 2018 at
10.00am, at which the Resolution will be proposed. The Resolution is set out in full at the end of
this Circular in the Notice of General Meeting. As a Class 1 transaction for the purposes of the
Listing Rules, the Acquisition may only be completed if it is first approved by Shareholders. Voting
on the Resolution will be taken on a poll, rather than a show of hands, to reflect the number of
shares held by a Shareholder, whether or not the Shareholder is able to attend the meeting. The
Resolution requires the approval of a majority of the votes cast (in person or by proxy) at the
meeting in order to be passed.
9.
Action to be taken
Whether or not you propose to attend the General Meeting, you are requested to:
(A) complete, sign and return the enclosed Form of Proxy in accordance with the instructions
printed thereon and contained in this Circular so as to be received by the Registrars no later
than 10.00am on 19 December 2018;
(B) register the appointment of your proxy electronically via the internet at www.sharevote.co.uk,
where full instructions are given. Please note that the personalised numbers printed at the top
of the Form of Proxy will be required and instructions must be received by no later than
10.00am on 19 December 2018; or
(C) if you hold shares in CREST you may appoint a proxy by completing and transmitting a
CREST Proxy Instruction to the Registrars (CREST participant ID RA19) so that it is received
by no later than 10.00am on 19 December 2018.
The return of a completed Form of Proxy, electronic proxy appointment or CREST Proxy
Instruction will not prevent you from attending the General Meeting and voting in person if you
wish to do so. Share Incentive Plan participants are unable to attend the meeting unless they hold
shares registered in their own name.
12
10. Financial advice
The Board has received financial advice from J.P. Morgan Cazenove in relation to the Acquisition.
In providing their financial advice to the Board, J.P. Morgan Cazenove has relied upon the Board’s
commercial assessment of the Acquisition.
11. Recommendation
In the Board’s opinion, the Acquisition is in the best interests of Shareholders as a whole.
Accordingly, the Board unanimously recommends Shareholders to vote in favour of the Resolution
to be proposed at the General Meeting, as the Directors intend to do in respect of their own
beneficial shareholdings of Ordinary Shares, being in aggregate 230,024 Ordinary Shares,
representing approximately 0.056491% of Drax’s issued ordinary share capital as at the Latest
Practicable Date.
Yours sincerely,
Philip Cox CBE
Chairman
13
PART II
RISK FACTORS
Prior to making any decision to vote in favour of the Resolution at the General Meeting, Shareholders
should carefully consider, together with all other information contained in this Circular, the specific
factors and risks described below.
Drax considers these to be the material risk factors relating to the Acquisition for Shareholders to
consider. These should not be regarded as a complete and comprehensive statement of all potential
risks and uncertainties. There may be other risks of which the Board is not aware or which it believes
to be immaterial which may, in the future, be connected to the Acquisition and have a material and
adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations or future prospects of the
Enlarged Group after the Acquisition. The risks described below relate only to the Acquisition and are
not set out in any particular order.
If any or a combination of these risks actually materialise, the business, operations, financial condition
and prospects of the Drax Group or the ScottishPower Generation Group could be materially and
adversely affected to the detriment of the Drax Group and the Shareholders. Additional risks and
uncertainties which are not known to the Directors as at the date of this Circular, or that the Directors
currently deem immaterial, may also have a material adverse effect on the Drax Group or the
ScottishPower Generation Group if they materialise. If this occurs, the market price of Ordinary Shares
could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment.
The information given is as of the date of this Circular and, except as required by the FCA, the London
Stock Exchange, the Listing Rules, the DTRs or any other law or regulation, will not be updated.
1.
RISKS RELATED TO THE ACQUISITION
The Acquisition is conditional and may not proceed
Completion remains conditional upon the passing of the Resolution at the General Meeting. In the
event that this condition is not satisfied by the Long Stop Date (or such later time as the parties to
the Acquisition Agreement may agree), the Acquisition Agreement will automatically terminate.
In addition, Drax Smart Generation has retained the right to terminate the Acquisition Agreement
in the event of a material reduction in available generation capacity at the Cruachan, Galloway and
Lanark or Damhead Creek facilities which subsists, or is reasonably likely to subsist, for a
continuous period of three months. The right of Drax Smart Generation to terminate in these
circumstances is subject to the Seller’s right to defer Completion if the relevant material reduction
in available generation capacity can be resolved by the end of the month following the anticipated
date of Completion.
A break fee may be payable if the Acquisition does not complete
In the event that the Acquisition does not complete due to the non-satisfaction of the shareholder
approval condition, a break fee of £14.6 million (equal to 1 per cent. of Drax’s market capitalisation
at close of business on 15 October 2018, being the day before announcement of the Acquisition)
will be payable by Drax Smart Generation to the Seller, subject to limited exceptions.
The Drax Group may incur losses and other costs in unwinding certain hedging
arrangements if the Acquisition does not complete
In anticipation of Completion occurring, the Drax Group has hedged 1TWh of commodity
exposures which are associated with the Portfolio. In the event that the Acquisition does not
complete, these hedging arrangements would no longer be required by the Drax Group and the
Drax Group may incur losses and other costs in unwinding such hedging arrangements.
The Enlarged Group may not realise, or it may take the Enlarged Group longer to realise,
the expected benefits of the Acquisition
The Enlarged Group may fail to achieve certain or any of the anticipated benefits that Drax
expects to realise as a result of the Acquisition, including as a result of poor performance by the
14
ScottishPower Generation Group, or it may take longer than expected to realise those benefits. If
the anticipated benefits, such as the anticipated financial returns, are not achieved, or take longer
than expected to be realised, this could have a material adverse impact on the Enlarged Group’s
business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.
The
Enlarged
Group
may
experience
operational
difficulties
in
integrating
the
ScottishPower Generation Group into the Drax Group
The Drax Group and the ScottishPower Generation Group currently operate and, until Completion,
will continue to operate as separate and independent businesses. The Acquisition will lead to the
incorporation of the ScottishPower Generation Group into the Drax Group and the evolution of the
Drax Group’s generation business from a single site generation model to a multi-site model. The
success of the Enlarged Group will depend, in part, on the success of that integration and the
ability of the Enlarged Group to realise the anticipated benefits from combining the two
businesses.
Whilst initial work on integration has begun, more detailed analysis will need to be undertaken
before a detailed integration plan is finalised and can be implemented. The integration process is
likely to present administrative, managerial and financial challenges, some of which may not be
identified until after the process is under way. Unforeseen difficulties, costs, liabilities, losses or
delays could adversely affect the business of the Enlarged Group and the realisation of the
benefits of the Acquisition.
Potential difficulties in the integration process include:
•
consolidating and integrating procedures, systems, accounting functions, compensation
structures for transferring staff and other policies;
•
putting in place the necessary new systems and/or processes to enable the Enlarged Group
to dispatch electricity from (and where applicable, offtake gas from the gas transmission
network to supply) generating assets located across Great Britain from a central hub;
•
replacing IT infrastructure (notably network connections and certain pieces of hardware at the
acquired generation sites that will be removed or retained by the Seller following the expiry of
any transitional arrangements under the TSA);
•
operating and integrating different technology platforms and systems across an Enlarged
Group with a significantly increased geographical footprint; and
•
disruption to the ongoing business of the Drax Group and the ScottishPower Generation
Group.
The failure of, or any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with, the integration process
could also lead to reputational damage to the Enlarged Group.
The Enlarged Group will have increased debt financing
Following Completion, the Enlarged Group will have further indebtedness due to the inclusion in
the Enlarged Group of the new financing under the Acquisition Facility Agreement taken out by
Drax Corporate to finance the Acquisition. The Enlarged Group will accordingly be required to
service interest payments in respect of the Acquisition Facility.
The increased financial indebtedness of the Enlarged Group may result in operational constraints
for the Enlarged Group going forward, which may adversely affect the business, financial
condition, results of operations and prospects of the Enlarged Group.
The Acquisition Facility Agreement has a term of twelve months from the first date of utilisation of
the Acquisition Facility (with a seven-month extension option) and there can be no guarantee that
the Enlarged Group will be able to refinance the Acquisition Facility Agreement on optimal terms
or at an optimal time due to wider economic and market factors outside the Enlarged Group’s
control.
Drax’s acquisition and integration costs may be greater than anticipated
Drax expects to incur a number of costs in relation to the Acquisition, including the cost of
integrating the ScottishPower Generation Group into the Drax Group in order to combine the
15
operations of Drax and the ScottishPower Generation Group successfully. The actual costs of the
integration process may exceed those estimated and there may be further additional and/or
unforeseen expenses incurred in connection with the Acquisition.
In addition, Drax will incur legal, accounting, technical engineering adviser, financial adviser,
sponsor and other transaction fees and costs relating to the Acquisition. Some of these costs will
be payable regardless of whether the Acquisition reaches Completion.
While Drax believes that the integration and acquisition costs will be more than offset by the
realisation of the benefits resulting from the Acquisition, this net benefit may not be realised in the
short term or at all (particularly if the Acquisition does not proceed) or may be less than
anticipated. This could affect the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects
of Drax and, following Completion, the Enlarged Group.
Management attention may be diverted from the business of the Drax Group by the
Acquisition
The Acquisition has required, and will continue to require, substantial amounts of both time and
focus from the Drax Group management team, which could adversely affect their ability to operate
each respective business effectively and efficiently. The Enlarged Group’s management will also
be required to devote significant attention and resources to integrating the two businesses. There
is a risk that the challenges associated with managing the Acquisition will result in management
distraction and that consequently the underlying businesses will not perform in line with
expectations.
Adverse change in the condition of the ScottishPower Generation Group
Drax Smart Generation may only terminate the Acquisition Agreement prior to Completion in the
event of a material reduction in available generation capacity at the Cruachan, Galloway and
Lanark or Damhead Creek facilities or if the conditions to Completion under the Acquisition
Agreement are not satisfied. Completion is expected to occur on 31 December 2018, subject to
the passing of the Resolution at a General Meeting of the Shareholders.
While Drax Smart Generation has certain consent rights over the actions taken by the
ScottishPower Generation Group prior to Completion, Drax will not own or run the ScottishPower
Generation Group until Completion. It is possible that there could be an adverse event affecting
the ScottishPower Generation Group which would not give rise to a right of Drax Smart Generation
to terminate the Acquisition. In such circumstances, the value of the ScottishPower Generation
Group may be less than anticipated.
2.
RISKS RELATING TO THE DRAX GROUP, THE SCOTTISHPOWER GENERATION GROUP
AND/OR THE ENLARGED GROUP FOLLOWING THE ACQUISITION
This section documents those risks and uncertainties currently faced by the Drax Group and,
following the Acquisition, the Enlarged Group, which are potentially impacted by the Acquisition.
The current status of the Capacity Market in the UK is uncertain
On 15 November 2018, the General Court of the European Union issued a ruling annulling the
European Commission’s 2014 decision not to undertake a more detailed investigation of the UK
Government’s scheme establishing the Capacity Market. The Capacity Market Ruling imposed a
“standstill period” while the European Commission completes a further State aid investigation into
the Capacity Market. Payments to generators scheduled under existing capacity agreements and
the holding of future capacity auctions have been suspended.
Contracted capacity payments make up a significant proportion of the earnings of the
ScottishPower Generation Group, with many of the assets in the Portfolio benefitting from the right
to receive such payments under existing capacity agreements. For the period from 1 January 2019
to 30 September 2022, the Cruachan pumped storage hydro asset has contracted capacity
payments of £29 million, the Galloway run-of-river hydro assets have contracted capacity
payments of £5 million, and the Damhead Creek, Rye House, Shoreham and Blackburn CCGT
assets have contracted capacity payments of £122 million in aggregate.
16
Drax’s investment case for the Acquisition takes account of these capacity payments. Based on
the information available to it and legal advice it has received, the Board believes the most likely
outcome is that the European Commission will re-approve the existing Capacity Market in its
current form or a broadly similar form. The Board recognises there is some uncertainty whether, if
the Capacity Market is reinstated in its current form, the contracted capacity payments for the
Capacity Market year 2018/2019 which are currently suspended will be paid by the UK
Government. However, the Board believes that the most likely outcome after 2019 is that existing
capacity agreements for the period to 2022 will be honoured. While this reflects the Board’s best
estimate of the likely outcome of the European Commission’s re-investigation, the results of this
investigation, which will turn on a detailed analysis of the Capacity Market as well as the specific
information received during the European Commission’s consultation of interested parties, are
uncertain.
It is not possible to predict with certainty the duration of the European Commission’s
re-investigation. The duration of the current suspension of payments and auctions is therefore
uncertain. Capacity payments expected to be received by the Enlarged Group in 2019 could be
delayed for an extended period, and the Capacity Market arrangements agreed in the Acquisition
Agreement would not be sufficient to compensate for the lost contracted payments, impacting the
financial results of the Enlarged Group.
Even if the European Commission grants a new State aid clearance in relation to the Capacity
Market, there is no guarantee that the capacity payments suspended between the date of the
Capacity Market Ruling and the date of the new clearance will be paid to generators. This will
depend both on the outcome of the European Commission’s investigation and on the UK
Government’s response thereto. In the event that suspended capacity payments are not paid, the
Capacity Market arrangements agreed in the Acquisition Agreement would not be sufficient to
compensate for the lost contracted payments.
Any new clearance of the Capacity Market granted by the European Commission may be subject
to conditions that the form of the Capacity Market is amended from its current design. This may
include the condition that existing capacity agreements are invalidated and that current and future
capacity auctions need to be re-run. In these circumstances, there would be no guarantee that any
amended form of Capacity Market would provide comparable contracted payments to those the
Enlarged Group expects to receive under the existing Capacity Market, that future capacity
auctions would be re-run on terms comparable to the existing Capacity Market or that the
Enlarged Group would be successful in those re-run auctions. In these circumstances, the
Capacity Market arrangements agreed in the Acquisition Agreement would not be sufficient to
compensate for the lost contracted payments.
If the Capacity Market is not reinstated, it may be replaced by a new mechanism which is not as
advantageous to the Enlarged Group. If no new clearance is given by the European Commission,
and/or no new capacity market mechanism is introduced, the Enlarged Group will be more
exposed to wholesale electricity prices due to the reduction in contracted revenue streams. In
these circumstances, the Capacity Market arrangements agreed in the Acquisition Agreement
would not be sufficient to compensate for the lost contracted payments.
Each of these outcomes has the potential to have a material adverse impact on the Enlarged
Group’s business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.
The cost of debt financing could increase or financing could cease to be available
The ability of the Drax Group (and, following Completion, the Enlarged Group) to operate its
business depends in part on being able to raise funds. While the Drax Group currently seeks to
maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of borrowings with
a range of maturities, there can be no assurance, particularly in the current economic
environment, that, over the longer term, the Enlarged Group will be able to find lenders who are
willing to lend on no worse terms than its existing financing arrangements, or at all, or that existing
financing arrangements (including the Acquisition Facility Agreement) will be able to be refinanced
on no worse terms, or at all, upon or prior to maturity.
An increase in the cost, or lack of availability, of finance and capital could have a material adverse
effect on the Enlarged Group’s business, financial condition and results of operations in the
medium to long term.
17
The Enlarged Group may become exposed to increased regulatory risk
The Enlarged Group will operate in a highly regulated market subject to detailed legislation and
regulation. Following Completion, the size of the Enlarged Group’s business will increase. The
increased size of the Enlarged Group, and particularly its increased presence in wholesale
generation and the ancillary services markets, may lead to increased risk of regulatory scrutiny or
risk arising from regulatory change, as regulators seek to ensure sufficient market liquidity in order
to ensure effective price competition. In particular, some industry regulation and generator licence
conditions only apply to larger generation groups. Increased regulatory scrutiny may lead to an
increased cost of compliance and may result in actions against the Enlarged Group for
non-compliance
with
the
regulatory
framework.
The
Enlarged
Group
may
also
become
increasingly exposed to the impact of changes to the legal or regulatory framework in which the
Enlarged Group will operate. This could have a material adverse impact on the Enlarged Group’s
business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.
In addition, the Acquisition will increase the breadth of regulatory oversight of the Enlarged Group
compared with that faced by the Drax Group currently. In particular, the Enlarged Group will be
subject to regulations on a range of assets (for example, dams, reservoirs and watercourses) that
are not currently within the purview of the Drax Group. Whilst operational staff are transferring as
part of the Acquisition, any failure of the Enlarged Group to adapt to the increased regulatory
burden may result in non-compliance and have a material adverse effect on the Enlarged Group’s
business, financial condition and results of operations.
The earnings of the ScottishPower Generation Group may be impacted by disruptive
technologies in an evolving wholesale electricity market
A proportion of the ScottishPower Generation Group’s earnings are derived from the Cruachan
facility’s provision of ancillary services and its wider participation in the balancing market. Such
revenues derive from the fact that pumped storage is the only storage technology that forms a
notable proportion of the current UK wholesale generation mix and is the only storage technology
in the UK that is able to discharge at full load for significant lengths of time.
There are a number of nascent electricity storage technologies in development across the world
(for example, lithium-ion battery technology) that may, in the future, have the necessary scale and
reliability to compete with pumped storage facilities. Whilst Drax’s investment case for the
Acquisition takes account of emerging technologies, should these technologies displace pumped
storage earlier or at a greater rate than anticipated, this could have a material adverse effect on
the Enlarged Group’s business, financial condition and results of operations.
The geographical location and configuration of certain of the generating assets may lead to
longer unplanned outages than a typical similar outage at the Drax Group’s existing
generation site
Certain of the assets of the ScottishPower Generation Group, particularly the Cruachan facility,
are located in remote areas and are of a complex configuration. Technical failures of key
components at such facilities (for example, failures of high-voltage transformers) may lead to
longer and more significant disruptions in generation than Drax is accustomed to due to the
increased delay associated with acquiring, transporting and installing replacement components in
such locations and facilities. The unexpected occurrence of a significant component failure may
therefore have a material adverse effect on the Enlarged Group’s business, operations, prospects,
financial condition and results of operations.
A more diverse generation and operating portfolio increases the scope of the health and
safety and environmental obligations applicable to the Enlarged Group, and a failure of the
Enlarged Group to adapt to those obligations may materially impact the financial condition
of the Enlarged Group
Whilst Drax has historically maintained high standards of health and safety and environmental
compliance in respect of its existing generation and operational assets, the Enlarged Group will be
subject to an increased regulatory burden in this area as a result of acquiring a more diversified
generation and operational portfolio across both England and Scotland. A failure by the Enlarged
18
Group to adapt to, and comply with, this increased regulatory burden or else adequately to remedy
any legacy issues with the acquired sites may result in fines or criminal sanctions which, if levied,
would have a material adverse effect on the Enlarged Group’s business, operations, prospects,
financial condition and results of operations.
It may be difficult for the Enlarged Group to retain or attract appropriately qualified
personnel to fulfil the requirements of the Enlarged Group
Certain of the generation assets of the Enlarged Group are in remote locations and require
employees with sufficient technical engineering and operational expertise to maintain and operate
them safely and optimally. Whilst operational staff are transferring as part of the Acquisition, there
can be no certainty that such staff will continue to work for the Enlarged Group in the longer term,
and it may prove difficult to find adequately skilled replacements.
Separately, the new multi-site, multi-fuel generation model to be operated by the Enlarged Group
will require an adequate number of sufficiently qualified employees to dispatch the larger and more
complex portfolio of assets optimally. Energy trading on this scale is a highly specialised field and
it may be difficult for the Enlarged Group to retain or attract the personnel required.
The performance of the ScottishPower Generation Group’s pumped storage and hydro
assets could be impacted by unseasonal or extreme weather conditions
The economic case underpinning the acquisition of the pumped storage and hydro generation
assets assumes that the assets will be generally capable of being dispatched at times of peak
demand and pricing. However, unseasonal or extreme weather may prevent this. If, for example,
droughts restrict water flows and consequent generation or excess rainfall leads to a need to
dispatch the assets at sub-optimal times to avoid flooding, this could have a material adverse
effect on the Enlarged Group’s business, operations, prospects, financial condition and results of
operations.
The result of the UK referendum on withdrawal from the EU may have a negative effect on
economic conditions, financial markets and demand for the Enlarged Group’s products and
services, which could materially adversely affect the business, results of operations and
financial condition of the Enlarged Group
Following Completion, the Enlarged Group will be based in and operate principally within the UK.
The Enlarged Group will be particularly exposed to UK-wide risks.
Brexit and prolonged periods of uncertainty relating to the UK’s withdrawal from the EU could
result in significant macroeconomic deterioration. This could adversely affect demand for electricity
and will directly impact the financial condition of the Enlarged Group’s customers, which could
have a negative impact on its revenues. A significant weakening of economic conditions in the UK
accompanied by higher insolvency rates could also result in a decrease in energy consumption,
which could adversely affect the Enlarged Group’s performance.
The UK’s post-Brexit relationship with the EU has yet to be finally defined and there are a number
of risks which the Enlarged Group’s business may face as a result. If the UK were to leave the EU
customs union, this could result in new or increased tariffs being levied on the Enlarged Group’s
imports of wood pellets. Furthermore, the Enlarged Group has finite storage capacity at ports and
at Drax Power Station and delays in unloading vessels at ports caused by the imposition of other
non-tariff barriers (such as higher documentation requirements or more time-consuming custom
checks) risk causing disruption to the Enlarged Group’s wider biomass supply chain and the ability
of the Enlarged Group to ensure that Drax Power Station has sufficient fuel to generate at its
optimal levels.
Brexit may also impact liquidity in the UK electricity and gas markets, as a result of “market
decoupling” between the UK and the rest of the EU and reduce liquidity in derivative markets to
the extent that the terms of Brexit prevent the Enlarged Group’s counterparties from trading in the
UK under the EU’s passporting rules for financial services firms.
19
The effects of Brexit could be significant as the UK Government would no longer be subject to the
set of EU directives, which commit the EU member states to reducing carbon emissions,
increasing energy efficiency and increasing renewable energy production. Any change in the UK
Government’s policy towards renewable energy targets could have a material adverse effect on
the Enlarged Group’s business, operations, prospects, financial condition and results of
operations.
20
PART III
INFORMATION ON THE SCOTTISHPOWER GENERATION GROUP
1.
Overview
The ScottishPower Generation Group, which includes SPGEN and SMW, SPGEN’s wholly owned
subsidiary, comprises a portfolio of flexible, low-carbon and renewable generation assets located
in the UK with a capacity of up to 2.6GW across pumped storage, hydro and gas-fired generation.
The portfolio comprises:
•
Cruachan pumped storage hydro-electric power station: commissioned in 1965 and
located in Argyll and Bute, Scotland, Cruachan is capable of generating 440MW of large-scale
storage and flexible electricity. The power station is built into the hollowed-out rock of the
mountain, Ben Cruachan. It uses electricity from the grid at times of low demand to pump
water from Loch Awe, to its storage reservoir part way up the mountain. Water is also
collected from the surrounding hills. At times of peak demand, water is released from the
reservoir through the station’s turbines to generate electricity.
Cruachan provides contracted ancillary services to the UK energy market including fast
reserve and frequency response. The station also provides system support services through
the balancing market in addition to merchant power generation. Cruachan has £29 million of
contracted capacity payments for the period from 1 January 2019 to 30 September 2022.
Cruachan, which provides over 35 per cent. of the UK’s pumped storage by volume, can
provide long-duration storage with the ability to achieve full load in 30 seconds, which it can
maintain for over 16 hours, making it a strategically important asset remunerated by a broad
range of non-commodity based revenues.
Cruachan’s total capacity of 440MW is split between four units, two of which generate up to
120MW, and the other two up to 100MW. Cruachan has four primary modes of operation,
which can deliver a range of balancing and ancillary services. The plant can switch between
the modes to meet commercial requirements or as required by NGET. This flexibility is highly
valued. Prices for the various services provided by Cruachan were increased early in 2018
and the plant has seen no diminution in demand, underlining its strategic value. Cruachan, as
well as the Galloway and Lanark assets described below, are expected to operate for a very
long time, as hydro and pumped storage assets generally operate for prolonged periods
provided adequate levels of investment are maintained.
•
Galloway and Lanark run-of-river hydro-electric power stations: commissioned in 1935
and 1926 respectively, and located in south-west Scotland, Galloway and Lanark are
distribution-connected stations capable of generating up to a combined 126MW of stable
renewable electricity. Lanark (17MW) benefits from index-linked ROC revenues extending
until 2027. Galloway (109MW), in addition to renewable power generation, operates a
reservoir and dam system providing power storage capabilities and opportunities for peaking
and system support services. It has £5 million of contracted capacity payments for the period
from 1 January 2019 to 30 September 2022.
•
CCGT power stations: Damhead Creek (805MW), Rye House (715MW) and Shoreham
(420MW), all located in south-east England, are together capable of generating up to
1,940MW of electricity. These assets provide baseload and peak power generation in addition
to other system support services and benefit from grid access income associated with their
location in south-east England where energy demand is highest. The three plants have
contracted capacity payments of £118 million for the period from 1 January 2019 to
30 September 2022. These CCGT power stations are supported by long-term maintenance
contracts with the original equipment manufacturers. The operating teams have an excellent
track record of managing those contracts to extract maximum value for the running regimes,
which have changed over time.
Damhead Creek has held frequency response contracts with NGET and is regularly used in
the balancing mechanism for energy and system services. The site also benefits from an
option for the development of a second CCGT asset, Damhead Creek II, which would provide
additional
gas
generation
optionality
for
Drax,
alongside
Drax’s
existing
coal-to-gas
repowering and OCGT projects. Damhead Creek II has prequalified for the 2019 Capacity
Market auction along with two of Drax’s existing OCGT projects.
21
•
Other smaller sites: these include a small CCGT in Blackburn (60MW), which has contracted
capacity payments of £4 million for the period from 1 January 2019 to 30 September 2022,
and a 50,000 tonne biomass-from-waste facility in Daldowie, which converts waste water into
processed sludge pellets and benefits from a firm offtake agreement until 2026.
2.
Regulation
SPGEN holds an electricity generation licence granted under section 6(1)(a) of the Electricity Act
1989 to generate electricity for the purpose of giving a supply to any premises or enabling a supply
to be given. The Cruachan, Galloway and Lanark assets are also operated under licences issued
by the Scottish Environment Protection Agency to implement the requirements of the Water
Framework Directive (2000/60/EC).
3.
Employees and pensions
Within the ScottishPower Generation Group, there are currently 194 employees employed by
SPGEN (not counting those who work at the site located in Hatfield and will transfer out of the
ScottishPower Generation Group back to the Seller’s group when that site is transferred back to
the Seller’s group as part of the pre-sale reorganisation) and 65 employees employed by SMW at
the Daldowie site. Further information on the pre-sale reorganisation is set out at paragraphs 1.7
and 1.9 of Part IV (Principal Terms of the Acquisition).
The most senior employees within the ScottishPower Generation Group are the heads of UK
Hydro and of UK Thermal, who are the regional managers overseeing the different hydro and
thermal sites. Other senior employees include the O&M managers (who are specific site
managers) and technical specialist managers, comprising among others the engineering
managers, plant managers, asset optimisation & innovation managers and performance &
compliance managers.
The Seller’s group operates one defined contribution retirement benefit scheme, and two defined
benefit schemes, the SPPS and the Manweb Scheme. Both of the ScottishPower Generation
Group companies are currently participating in these arrangements, with contributions for the
defined benefit schemes based on pension costs across all of the participating companies. The
ScottishPower Generation Group will cease participating in the Manweb Scheme following the
transfer out of the ScottishPower Generation Group of certain assets and associated employees
located at Hatfield which do not form part of the Acquisition.
Drax Smart Generation has agreed to assume the accrued defined benefit pension liabilities
associated with the employees of the ScottishPower Generation Group in the SPPS. Following
Completion, the ScottishPower Generation Group will continue to participate in the SPPS for an
interim period while new pension arrangements are set up by Drax for the benefit of the relevant
ScottishPower Generation Group employees. More details on these arrangements can be found in
paragraph 1.10 of Part IV (Principal Terms of the Acquisition).
22
PART IV
PRINCIPAL TERMS OF THE ACQUISITION
The following is a summary of the principal terms of the Acquisition Agreement.
1.
Acquisition Agreement
1.1
Parties and structure
The Acquisition Agreement was entered into on 16 October 2018 between Drax Smart
Generation and the Seller. Pursuant to the Acquisition Agreement, the Seller has agreed to sell,
and Drax Smart Generation has agreed to acquire, the whole of the issued share capital of
SPGEN. The Acquisition Agreement was amended on 3 December 2018 pursuant to the
Acquisition Agreement Amendment Deed.
Drax Group Holdings has agreed to guarantee the payment obligations of Drax Smart Generation
under the Acquisition Agreement. Scottish Power UK plc has agreed to guarantee the payment
obligations of the Seller under the Acquisition Agreement.
1.2
Consideration
At Completion, Drax Smart Generation will pay the Seller the sum of £702 million in cash (the
debt-free/cash-free price), as adjusted to account for estimated net cash, estimated net debt and
the amount by which estimated working capital differs from a target level of working capital. This
initial amount of consideration will be subject to customary adjustments post-Completion to reflect
the actual amounts of net cash, net debt and working capital of the ScottishPower Generation
Group at Completion, such adjustments to be determined in a completion statement to be
prepared after Completion.
1.3
Capacity Market payments
In response to the Capacity Market Ruling, the following arrangement (the “Capacity Market
Arrangement”) has been included in the Acquisition Agreement as part of the amendments
agreed on 3 December 2018.
Capacity Market payments relating to the period before Completion
If, following Completion, the Drax Group receives any Capacity Market payments to which the
ScottishPower Generation Group is entitled in respect of the period from 1 October 2018 to
31
December
2018
(or,
if
Completion
occurs
in
2019,
the
date
of
Completion)
(the
“Pre-Completion Capacity Market Payments”), the Drax Group will procure that an amount
equal to such Pre-Completion Capacity Market Payments is paid to the Seller within twenty
business days of receipt by the Drax Group of those Pre-Completion Capacity Market Payments.
Capacity Market payments relating to the period from Completion until 30 September 2019
If less than 100 per cent. of the Capacity Market payments due to the ScottishPower Generation
Group in respect of the period from 1 January 2019 to 30 September 2019 (the “2019 Capacity
Market Payments”) are received by the Drax Group by 15 December 2019, the Capacity Market
Arrangement provides for the following payment to be made by the Seller or by Drax Smart
Generation (as applicable).
The Seller will pay to the Drax Group the lower of: (i) the amount of 2019 Capacity Market
Payments not received; and (ii) one of the following:
(A) if
the
ScottishPower
Generation
Group
gross
profit
for
the
financial
year
ending
31 December 2019 (the “2019 Gross Profit”) is equal to or less than £119 million, an
amount equal to £26 million;
(B) if the 2019 Gross Profit is more than £119 million but less than £155 million, an amount
equal to £26 million less an amount which is 72.22 per cent. of the amount by which the
2019 Gross Profit exceeds £119 million; or
(C) if the 2019 Gross Profit is equal to or more than £155 million, zero.
23
Drax Smart Generation will pay to the Seller the lower of: (i) the amount of 2019 Capacity Market
Payments not received; and (ii) one of the following:
(D) if the 2019 Gross Profit is less than £165 million, zero;
(E) if the 2019 Gross Profit is equal to or more than £165 million but less than £201 million, an
amount equal to 72.22 per cent. of the difference between the 2019 Gross Profit and
£165 million; or
(F) if the 2019 Gross Profit is equal to or more than £201 million, an amount equal to £26 million.
Procedure for payments between Seller and Drax
A provisional payment under the Capacity Market Arrangement will be made by the relevant party
by no later than 15 December 2019 on the basis of estimates of gross profit prepared by the Drax
Group and notified to the Seller. A final calculation will be made in March 2020 on the basis of the
audited accounts of the ScottishPower Generation Group for the year ending 31 December 2019
and an adjusting payment made, if required.
If, after the final settlement under the Capacity Market Arrangement has been made, the Drax
Group receives any 2019 Capacity Market Payments, the Drax Group will procure that an amount
equal to 72.22 per cent. of such 2019 Capacity Market Payments is paid to the Seller up to the
amount that the Seller has paid to the Drax Group pursuant to the Capacity Market Arrangement.
General
Following Completion, the Seller will have sole conduct of any claims in relation to Capacity
Market payments that the ScottishPower Generation Group may have against the UK
Government, the European Commission or any other third party in respect of the Pre-Completion
Capacity Market Payments and, if and for so long as the Seller is liable to make or has made a
payment to the Drax Group under the Capacity Market Arrangement, in respect of the 2019
Capacity Market Payments.
The Drax Group has agreed that until the final settlement under the Capacity Market
Arrangement, it will manage the ScottishPower Generation Group in good faith and in the
ordinary course of business and in a manner which does not frustrate, manipulate or distort the
operation of the operation of the Capacity Market Arrangement or the profitability of the
ScottishPower Generation Group.
1.4
Conditions to Completion
The Acquisition is conditional on:
(A) the passing of the Resolution approving the Acquisition by Shareholders; and
(B) the CMA having indicated in response to pre-Completion engagement by Drax that it has no
further questions at that stage or the CMA having provided a decision that the Acquisition will
not be subject to a reference under the UK merger control regime.
On 1 November 2018, the CMA indicated to Drax that it had no further questions at that stage,
which resulted in the relevant condition being satisfied. In the event that the shareholder approval
condition is not or cannot be satisfied by the Long Stop Date (or such later date as the parties
may agree), the Acquisition Agreement will automatically terminate.
Completion is currently expected to occur on 31 December 2018.
1.5
Termination for material reduction in available generation capacity
Drax Smart Generation has the right to terminate the Acquisition Agreement upon the occurrence
of a material reduction in available generation capacity at any of the Cruachan, Galloway and
Lanark or Damhead Creek facilities which subsists, or is reasonably likely to subsist, for a
continuous period of three months. The right of Drax Smart Generation to terminate in these
circumstances is subject to the Seller’s right to defer Completion if the relevant material reduction
in available generation capacity can be resolved by end of the month following the anticipated
date of Completion (or, if earlier, the Long Stop Date). If the material reduction in available
generation capacity is still continuing on that deferred date of Completion, Drax Smart Generation
may exercise its termination right under the Acquisition Agreement.
24
1.6
Break fee
A break fee of £14.6 million (equal to 1 per cent. of Drax’s market capitalisation at close of
business on 15 October 2018, being the day before announcement of the Acquisition) is payable
if the shareholder approval condition is not met, save where this is as a result of a material
reduction in available generation capacity as described above.
1.7
Pre-sale reorganisation
The Seller has agreed to complete a pre-sale reorganisation (under which certain assets have
been transferred, or are in the process of being transferred, into and out of the ScottishPower
Generation Group, including the transfer out of sites located in Hatfield and Avonmouth) as soon
as reasonably practicable.
1.8
Seller’s warranties and tax covenant
Warranties; liability caps and time limits for warranty claims
The Seller has provided customary warranties, subject to certain limitations. Fundamental
warranties (being those warranties relating to the Seller’s legal title to, and capacity to sell, the
SPGEN shares) are capped at the total amount of consideration payable under the Acquisition
Agreement. For all other warranties, a cap of 20 per cent. of the total amount of consideration
applies, with a further 10 per cent. available in respect of property title warranties. The
fundamental warranties, property title warranties and tax warranties have a seven year time limit,
while all other warranties have an eighteen-month time limit. The Seller has also undertaken to
pay specific remediation costs in respect of the Daldowie site.
Tax covenant
The Acquisition Agreement includes a customary tax covenant from the Seller to provide
protection
for
Drax
Smart
Generation
against
the
pre-Completion
tax
liabilities
of
the
ScottishPower Generation Group. The tax covenant is subject to customary general limitations,
including a cap on all tax covenant claims set at the total amount of consideration payable under
the Acquisition Agreement together with a seven-year time limit for bringing any tax covenant
claim.
1.9
Seller’s indemnities
Pre-sale reorganisation indemnity
The Seller has provided an indemnity to cover all losses incurred by the ScottishPower
Generation Group or Drax as a result of the pre-sale reorganisation not being completed fully and
in accordance with all legal requirements. This indemnity is uncapped and is for a duration of 10
years in respect of environmental liabilities and seven years for all other liabilities.
Pension indemnity
The Seller has also provided an indemnity in relation to the ScottishPower Generation Group’s
potential pension obligations. Further information is provided in paragraph 1.10 below.
1.10 Pensions and pensions indemnity
Assumption of pension liabilities
Drax Smart Generation has agreed to assume the accrued defined benefit pension liabilities
associated with the employees of the ScottishPower Generation Group as at the date of signing
the Acquisition Agreement. Following Completion, the ScottishPower Generation Group will
continue to participate in the Seller’s group defined benefit pension scheme, known as the SPPS,
for an interim period of twelve months unless agreed otherwise while a new defined benefit
pension scheme, the New Scheme, is set up by the ScottishPower Generation Group for the
benefit of its employees. At the end of the interim period, the SPPS trustees will be requested to
transfer from the SPPS to the New Scheme an amount of liabilities (and corresponding share of
25
assets) agreed between the Seller and Drax Smart Generation (or failing agreement, an amount
determined by an independent actuary) in respect of the past service liabilities relating to the
ScottishPower Generation Group employees.
If the amount of assets the SPPS trustees transfer to the New Scheme is less than the amount
agreed (or independently determined), the Seller has agreed to pay Drax Smart Generation the
difference (plus Bank of England base rate interest). If the amount of assets the SPPS trustees
transfer to the New Scheme is more than the amount agreed (or independently determined),
Drax Smart Generation has agreed to pay the Seller the difference (plus Bank of England base
rate interest).
If the SPPS trustees do not make any transfer to the New Scheme within the period of eighteen
months following the interim period (unless this was caused by a breach of the Acquisition
Agreement by the Seller), Drax Smart Generation has agreed to pay £16 million (plus Bank of
England base rate interest) to the Seller as compensation for the SPPS liabilities not taken on by
the New Scheme.
In accordance with its legislative obligations, the ScottishPower Generation Group has agreed to
provide its employees who have “protected person” status with future defined benefit pension
accrual under the New Scheme.
Pension indemnity
The Seller has agreed to indemnify Drax Smart Generation in respect of certain liabilities of the
ScottishPower Generation Group and of the Drax Group which may arise in respect of the SPPS
and the Manweb Scheme (in which the ScottishPower Generation Group has participated before
Completion). This indemnity will remain in place for eight years after Completion and is capped at
the total amount of consideration payable under the Acquisition Agreement.
1.11 Seller’s pre-Completion obligations
Prior to Completion, the Seller is required to ensure that the ScottishPower Generation Group
carries out its business in the ordinary course, in accordance with past practice and Prudent
Operating Practice. The Acquisition Agreement also includes wide restrictions on pre-Completion
dealings by the ScottishPower Generation Group (including material deviations from an agreed
capital expenditure plan, amendments to or entry into material contracts, dealings with
employees, incurrence of indebtedness and certain tax matters), in each case without Drax
Smart Generation’s consent.
2.
Transitional Services Agreement
At Completion, the Seller will enter into the TSA with SPGEN. Under the TSA, the Seller will use
its best efforts to provide the Drax Group and the ScottishPower Generation Group with services
that should, in principle, be the same services provided to the ScottishPower Generation Group
in the twelve months before Completion. Under the TSA, the Seller will also provide assistance in
relation to the extraction and separation of the ScottishPower Generation Group from the
systems of the Seller and integration of the ScottishPower Generation Group onto the systems of
the Drax Group. Services provided under the TSA are expected to be charged on the basis of
actual cost, provided that certain extensions to the agreed term of any service will result in the
charges for such an extended service being increased by 5 per cent. per month up to a maximum
increase of 20 per cent. above the initial cost price.
26
PART V
HISTORICAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION RELATING TO THE SCOTTISHPOWER
GENERATION GROUP
Part A: Historical Financial Information relating to the ScottishPower Generation Group
The ScottishPower Generation Group comprises ScottishPower Generation Limited (“SPGEN”) and its
wholly owned subsidiary, SMW Limited (“SMW”). For the purposes of this Part V (Historical Financial
Information relating to the ScottishPower Generation Group) only, the ScottishPower Generation
Group is referred to as the “Target Group”.
The financial information contained in this Part V (Historical Financial Information relating to the
ScottishPower Generation Group) does not constitute statutory accounts within the meaning of section
434(3) of the Companies Act 2006. The statutory accounts of both SPGEN and SMW, each in respect
of the years ended 31 December 2017, 2016 and 2015, have been delivered to the Registrar of
Companies.
Shareholders should read the whole of this Circular and not rely solely on the financial information
contained in this Part V (Historical Financial Information relating to the ScottishPower Generation
Group).
COMBINED INCOME STATEMENT OF THE TARGET GROUP
Years ended 31 December
2017
2016
2015
Notes
£m
£m
£m
Revenue
1
641.3
622.4
707.7
Fuel costs in respect of generation
(294.8) (313.2) (294.6)
Grid charges
(36.7)
(39.7)
(35.5)
Other energy supply costs
(201.8) (164.1) (259.8)
Total cost of sales
(533.3) (517.0) (589.9)
Gross Profit
108.0
105.4
117.8
Operating and administrative expenses
3
(52.7)
(51.6)
(51.5)
Overheads allocated by Related Parties1
3
(19.2)
(19.5)
(17.5)
EBITDA2
36.1
34.3
48.8
Depreciation
6
(16.7)
(14.3)
(16.5)
Amortisation
7
(0.7)
(0.5)
(0.6)
Asset obsolescence charges
(0.8)
(0.9)
(0.8)
Gains on disposal
1.6
—
0.3
Unrealised losses on derivative contracts
17
—
—
(14.2)
Operating Profit
19.5
18.6
17.0
Interest payable and similar charges
4
(6.8)
(6.3)
(11.7)
Interest receivable
4
0.1
—
—
Foreign exchange gains/losses
4
—
(0.2)
(0.1)
Profit before tax
12.8
12.1
5.2
Total tax credit/(charge)
5
1.0
(0.8)
4.3
Profit for the year attributable to equity holders
13.8
11.3
9.5
All results relate to continuing operations.
1
“Related Parties” refers to entities that are members of the group of companies headed by Iberdrola S.A. See note 21 for
further details.
2
EBITDA is defined as profit before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation, unrealised gains and losses on derivative
contracts and material or one-off items that do not reflect the underlying trading performance of the business.
27
COMBINED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME OF THE TARGET GROUP
Years ended 31 December
2017
2016
2015
Notes
£m
£m
£m
Profit for period
13.8
11.3
9.5
Items that will not be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss:
Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension scheme
15
(2.2)
(1.9)
0.1
Deferred tax on actuarial losses on defined benefit pension scheme
5
0.4
0.4
—
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss:
Fair value gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges
0.1
2.9
(0.8)
Deferred tax on cash flow hedges
5
—
(0.6)
0.2
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the period
(1.7)
0.8
(0.5)
Total comprehensive income for the period attributable to
equity holders
12.1
12.1
9.0
28
COMBINED BALANCE SHEET OF THE TARGET GROUP
As at 31 December
2017
2016
2015
Notes
£m
£m
£m
Assets
Non-current assets
Intangible assets
7
1.0
1.2
0.9
Property, plant and equipment
6
274.2
270.4
266.7
Other investments
—
0.2
0.2
Derivative financial instruments
17
0.3
0.1
—
275.5
271.9
267.8
Current assets
Trade and other receivables
8
20.7
18.0
18.0
Amounts receivable from Related Parties
8
117.0
98.5
104.9
Inventories
11
1.0
0.9
0.7
Derivative financial instruments
17
—
—
0.9
Current tax assets
1.3
2.0
4.4
140.0
119.4
128.9
Total Assets
415.5
391.3
396.7
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables
9
29.2
33.6
28.4
Amounts payable to Related Parties
9
113.6
66.4
113.2
Borrowings from Related Parties
10
402.4
520.3
437.0
Provisions
14
0.4
0.1
—
Derivative financial instruments
17
—
—
0.5
545.6
620.4
579.1
Net current liabilities
(405.6) (501.0) (450.2)
Non-current liabilities
Trade and other payables
9
0.3
0.4
0.5
Borrowings from Related Parties
10
100.0
—
—
Provisions
14
12.0
11.7
10.6
Deferred tax liabilities
5
4.8
5.0
1.9
Retirement benefit obligations
15
6.6
5.9
4.6
123.7
23.0
17.6
Net liabilities
(253.8) (252.1) (200.0)
Total invested capital and reserves deficit attributable to equity
holders of the Target Group
(253.8) (252.1) (200.0)
29
COMBINED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY OF THE TARGET GROUP
Invested
Capital/(Deficit)
£m
At 1 January 2015
(686.0)
Total comprehensive income for the year
9.0
Capital contribution
500.0
Capital distribution
(23.0)
At 1 January 2016
(200.0)
Total comprehensive income for the year
12.1
Capital distribution
(64.2)
At 1 January 2017
(252.1)
Total comprehensive income for the year
12.1
Capital distribution
(13.8)
At 31 December 2017
(253.8)
30
COMBINED CASH FLOW STATEMENT OF THE TARGET GROUP
Years ended 31 December
2017
2016
2015
Notes
£m
£m
£m
Cash generated from/(absorbed by) operations
12
54.2
9.0
(50.7)
Income taxes refunded
3.6
6.6
7.0
Interest paid
(5.5)
(11.8)
(12.3)
Interest received
0.1
—
—
Net cash from operating activities
52.4
3.8
(56.0)
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchases of property, plant and equipment
(20.5)
(19.7)
(21.1)
Purchases of intangible assets
(0.3)
(0.9)
(0.2)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment
1.7
—
—
Net cash used in investing activities
(19.1)
(20.6)
(21.3)
Cash flows from financing activities
(Decrease)/increase in amounts due to related parties
(19.5)
81.0
(399.7)
Proceeds from invested capital
—
—
500.0
Distributions from invested capital
(13.8)
(64.2)
(23.0)
Net cash (absorbed by)/generated from financing activities
(33.3)
16.8
77.3
Net change in cash and cash equivalents
—
—
—
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January and 31 December
—
—
—
31
Introduction
Basis of preparation
Whilst the entities and assets within the Target Group are under common control they have not
previously constituted a single group which has prepared consolidated financial results. The following
key corporate transactions have been considered when preparing the historical financial information.
•
In March 2016, as part of a group restructuring exercise to transfer all of ScottishPower Energy
Wholesale’s generating activities to one legal entity, the Shoreham Power Station assets and
liabilities of ScottishPower (SCPL) Limited (a subsidiary of SPGEN at the time) and the Damhead
Creek Power Station assets of ScottishPower (DCL) Limited (another Iberdrola group company)
were purchased by SPGEN. The financial results, position and cash flows of these assets, which
form part of the acquisition, have been included in each period presented in the historical financial
information, as if they had always formed part of the Target Group.
•
In July 2018, certain assets (principally legacy coal-fired power stations) and associated trading
were disposed of from the Target Group. The financial results, position and cash flows of the
businesses that are not to be acquired have been excluded from the historical financial information
in its entirety.
•
In addition, the historical financial information excludes the financial results, position and cash
flows of certain other assets (principally the Hatfield gas storage business and industrial land
located in Avonmouth) that are not to be acquired and are in the process of being disposed from
the Target Group pursuant to the pre-sale reorganisation process described in paragraphs 1.7 and
1.9 of Part IV (Principal Terms of the Acquisition).
Accordingly, the historical financial information of the Target Group, which has been prepared
specifically for the purposes of this Circular, does not constitute statutory accounts within the meaning
of section 434(3) of the Companies Act 2006.
The combined historical financial information for the three years ended 31 December 2017 has been
prepared in accordance with the Listing Rules and Prospectus Directive Regulation together with
International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”). The application of these conventions results in
the following departure from IFRS (in all other respects, IFRS has been applied):
•
As a result of the treatment of the key corporate transactions, described above, the combined
historical financial information does not strictly comply with the requirements of IFRS 10
‘Consolidated Financial Statements’. However, the combined historical financial information has
been prepared on a basis that applies the consolidation principles of IFRS 10.
•
IFRS does not explicitly provide guidance for the preparation of combined historical financial
information. Certain accounting conventions, permitted for the preparation of historical financial
information for inclusion in investment circulars as described in the Standards for Investment
Reporting Annexure (the “Annexure”), have been applied where IFRS does not provide specific
accounting treatments.
The combined historical financial information for the Target Group has been prepared for three years
ended 31 December 2017 on an aggregated basis, in accordance with the Annexure. The aggregation
process was as follows:
•
the assets and liabilities, income and expenses, and cash flows of SPGEN and SMW were
consolidated in accordance with IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements;
•
the assets and liabilities together with the associated reserves, income and expenses, and cash
flows of the Shoreham Power Station and Damhead Creek Power Station which were acquired in
March 2016 were included within the historical financial information for the three-year period
ended 31 December 2017 in accordance with the carve-out considerations of paragraph 26 of the
Annexure;
•
the assets and liabilities together with the associated reserves, income and expenses, and cash
flows of certain assets, which were subsequently disposed of by the Target Group in July 2018
(and will not be acquired by Drax Group as part of the Acquisition), were removed from the
historical financial information in accordance with the carve out considerations of paragraph 27 of
the Annexure;
32
•
the majority of the Target Group’s revenue was derived from, and commodity purchasing
requirements procured from, another ScottishPower company which traded with third parties. A
significant amount of central overheads was also levied on an aggregate basis to the Target
Group. Where transactions were not clearly identifiable as relating to the specific power stations
and other assets not acquired, a method to most fairly allocate these costs to the carved out
operations (on the basis of the share of pre-carve-out revenue or employees as most applicable)
was applied in accordance with paragraph 33 of the Annexure;
•
an actuarial calculation of the pension costs arising from the employees involved in the purchased
assets was determined and accounted for in accordance with paragraph 41 of the Annexure with a
detailed actuarial calculation prepared in respect of the 2017 historical financial information and
consistently applied in respect of the prior years;
•
reflecting the carving out of certain operations subsequently disposed of by the Target Group the
Invested Capital/(Deficit) represents a combination of the balances associated with the equity
holders of the Target Group, rather than an analysis of reserves; and
•
intercompany transactions and balances within the Target Group have been eliminated.
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of the historic financial information are set
out below. These policies are (excluding the adjustments identified above) the accounting policies
adopted by Drax in its last audited annual financial statements, being for the year ended 31 December
2017, and have been consistently applied to all the periods presented unless otherwise stated.
The financial statements are presented in sterling (£) and rounded to the nearest £0.1 million, or where
required, the nearest £‘000.
Going concern
The Directors have considered the Enlarged Group’s working capital forecasts and projections, taking
account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance. They are satisfied that the Enlarged
Group (which includes the Target Group) has adequate resources to continue in operational existence
for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they have adopted the going concern basis in preparing the
combined historical financial information.
Accounting policies
The historical financial information has been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for derivative
financial instruments measured at fair value. Those accounting policies that are material to the
historical financial information are set out in the relevant note. A full listing of new standards,
interpretations and pronouncements under IFRS applicable to the historical information is presented in
note 20.
Judgements, estimates and uncertainties
The preparation of the historical information requires management to exercise judgement in applying
Drax’s accounting policies to the Target Group. It also requires the use of estimates and assumptions
that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis, with revisions recognised in
the period in which the estimates are changed and in any future periods affected.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity are set out below and in more detail in
the related notes.
Critical accounting judgements
The following is the critical judgement, apart from those involving estimation (which are dealt with
separately below), made in the process of applying Drax’s accounting policies to the historic financial
33
information of the Target Group that have had the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in
the historic financial information:
Asset impairment
An asset of the Target Group is reviewed for impairment whenever there is an indication that the asset
is being carried at more than its recoverable amount. An assessment of whether there is any indication
of impairment is made at the end of each reporting period.
For the purpose of this assessment, reflecting the circumstances at the time of the preparation of this
Circular, the assets of the Target Group have been treated as forming three distinct cash-generating
units (“CGUs”) – being the smallest groups of assets considered to generate independent cash flows in
their current configuration and operating regime as a standalone group. The three CGUs are: a Hydro
CGU (comprising the Cruachan pumped storage hydro and run-of-river hydro locations at Galloway
and Lanark), a CCGT CGU (comprising the gas-fired power stations at Shoreham, Damhead Creek,
Rye House and Blackburn) and the biomass-from-waste plant at Daldowie.
In preparing the historical financial information, the CCGT and Daldowie CGUs were determined to
have been impaired prior to the earliest period presented. The carrying amounts of these CGUs at
1 January 2015 reflect management’s assessment of the recoverable amount of the CGUs.
The estimated present value of future cash flows expected to be derived from the asset, on which the
assessment of recoverable amount is based, is inherently dependent upon a number of assumptions.
Notably, expected cash flows are based upon management’s assessment of future prices, output,
costs, economic support and access to contracts for electricity generation. Where relevant, and to the
fullest extent possible, the key assumptions are based on observable market information. However,
observable market information is only available for a limited proportion of the remaining useful lives of
the assets under review.
Areas of estimation uncertainty
The areas of estimation uncertainty that carry the most significant risk of an outcome that differs from
the amount recognised in the historical information are as follows:
Useful lives of property, plant & equipment
The useful economic life (“UEL”) of the Target Group’s assets is reviewed annually at each balance
sheet date, taking into account regulatory change and commercial and technological obsolescence, as
well as normal wear and tear (see Note 6).
Pensions
The Target Group recognises a liability in the combined balance sheet for its obligation to provide
benefits under an approved defined benefit pension scheme, less the fair value of any assets held by
the pension scheme. The valuation of the scheme assets and liabilities depends on assumptions
regarding interest rates, inflation, future pension and salary increases, mortality and other factors, any
of which may be subject to future change (see Note 15).
Taxation
In accounting for both the current and deferred tax obligations of the Target Group, assumptions are
made regarding the likely treatment of items of income and expenditure for tax purposes. These
assumptions are based on interpretation of relevant legislation and, where required, consultation with
external advisers (see Note 5).
1.
Revenue
Revenue represents the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for goods or
services provided in the normal course of business, net of trade discounts, VAT and other sales-
related taxes and excluding transactions between the companies within the Target Group.
34
Revenues from the sale of electricity are measured based upon metered output delivered at rates
specified under contract terms or prevailing market rates as applicable. Revenue from the sale of
ROCs is recognised when the ROC is transferred to another party.
Revenues derived from the provision of services (for example, the supply of system support
services) are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract.
Fuel sales principally represents the sale of processed fuel pellets. Income is recognised based on
the weight of fuel pellets transferred to third parties during the period.
Other income is principally comprised of rebates, which are recognised in the period to which they
relate.
An analysis of revenue is provided in the table below. All revenues arose in the United Kingdom.
Year ended 31 December
2017
2016
2015
£m
£m
£m
Power Generation
Electricity sales
519.5
518.2
553.2
ROC sales
6.9
6.5
7.2
Ancillary services
85.3
71.9
93.1
Fuel sales
21.0
19.5
47.4
Other income
8.6
6.3
6.8
Total revenue
641.3
622.4
707.7
Subsequent to the preparation of the historical financial information, on 15 November 2018, the
European Commission’s State aid approval for the UK Capacity Market was annulled following a
ruling of the General Court of the European Union. This ruling prevents the UK Government from
holding any capacity auctions or making any capacity payments under existing agreements until
re-approval. Further information on the Capacity Market Ruling is set out in sections 3 and 7 of
Part I (Letter from the Chairman of Drax Group plc).
The Target Group received capacity payments totalling £3.9m in 2017 (2016 and 2015: £nil)
included in the table above.
2.
Segmental reporting
The Target Group is comprised of a single business with a shared management team and trading
function. Over the period, the Target Group’s activities (the generation of power in the UK) were
considered to represent a single operating segment.
3.
Operating expenses and EBITDA
This note sets out the material components of ‘Operating and administrative expenses’ in the
combined income statement, and the fees the Target Group paid to its auditor, KPMG LLP (in
2017) and EY (in 2016 and 2015), in respect of the services provided to the Target Group over the
three-year period.
Years ended 31 December
2017
2016
2015
£m
£m
£m
Gross profit
108.0
105.4
117.8
Staff costs (Note 13)
(22.0)
(20.6)
(20.9)
Repairs & maintenance expenditure
(7.4)
(6.4)
(6.2)
Operating lease rentals
(0.8)
(0.8)
(0.8)
Other operating and administrative expenses
(22.5)
(23.8)
(23.6)
Total operating and administrative expenses
(52.7)
(51.6)
(51.5)
Overhead allocated by Related Parties
(19.2)
(19.5)
(17.5)
EBITDA
36.1
34.3
48.8
35
Years ended 31 December
2017
2016
2015
£m
£m
£m
Audit fees:
Fees payable for the audit of the Target Group’s financial
statements
0.1
0.1
0.2
Total auditor’s remuneration
0.1
0.1
0.2
Overhead allocated by Related Parties reflects costs incurred by Related Parties in respect of
services provided and recharged to the Target Group in the period.
4.
Net finance costs
Years ended 31 December
2017
2016
2015
£m
£m
£m
Interest payable and similar charges:
Interest on borrowings payable to Related Parties
(6.5)
(5.9)
(11.4)
Unwinding of discount on provisions (Note 14)
(0.2)
(0.3)
(0.2)
Net finance cost in respect of defined benefit pension
scheme (Note 15)
(0.1)
(0.1)
(0.1)
Total interest payable and similar charges
(6.8)
(6.3)
(11.7)
Interest receivable:
Interest income on bank deposits
0.1
—
—
Total interest receivable
0.1
—
—
Foreign exchanges losses
—
(0.2)
(0.1)
Net Finance Costs
(6.7)
(6.5)
(11.8)
5.
Current and deferred taxation
Accounting policy
Taxable profit differs from profit before tax as reported in the combined income statement of the
Target Group because it excludes items of income or expense that are either taxable or deductible
in other years or never taxable/deductible. The Target Group’s liability (or asset) for current tax is
provided at amounts expected to be paid (or recovered) using the tax rates and laws that have
been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying
amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used
in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred
tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available
against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability
is settled or the asset is realised based on tax laws and rates that have been enacted or
substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
The rate of corporation tax payable in the UK for the year ended 31 December 2017 was
19.25 per cent. (2016: 20 per cent.) (2015: 20.25 per cent.). The UK main rate of corporation tax is
set at 19 per cent. for the years starting 1 April 2018 and 2019, and 17 per cent. for the year
starting 1 April 2020. These rates will apply to the tax payable by the Target Group in those
periods and also impact on the deferred tax balances in this historical financial information.
36
In accounting for taxation the Target Group makes assumptions regarding the treatment of items
of income and expenditure for tax purposes. The Target Group believes that the assumptions are
reasonable based on prior experience and consultation with advisers. Full provision is made for
deferred taxation at the rates of tax prevailing at the period end date unless future rates have been
substantively enacted. Deferred tax assets are recognised where it is considered more likely than
not that they will be recovered.
Years ended 31 December
2017
2016
2015
£m
£m
£m
Tax credit/(charge) comprises:
Current tax
1.2
2.1
4.4
Deferred tax
- Before impact of corporation tax rate change
(3.7)
(6.1)
(6.5)
- Impact of corporation tax rate change
3.5
3.2
6.4
Tax credit/(charge)
1.0
(0.8)
4.3
Tax credit/(charge) for items recognised in other
comprehensive income:
Deferred tax on actuarial losses
0.4
0.4
—
Deferred tax on cash flow hedges
—
(0.6)
0.2
Tax credit/(charge) in other comprehensive income
0.4
(0.2)
0.2
Years ended 31 December
2017
2016
2015
£m
£m
£m
Profit before tax
12.8
12.1
5.2
Profit before tax multiplied by the rate of corporation tax
in the UK of 19.25% (2016: 20%) (2015: 20.25%)
(2.5)
(2.4)
(1.0)
Effects of:
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes
—
(0.5)
(0.2)
Impact of change to corporation tax rate
3.5
3.2
6.4
Other
—
(1.1)
(0.9)
Total tax credit/(charge)
1.0
(0.8)
4.3
Deferred tax (liabilities)/assets
Capital
Allowances
Derivatives
Pensions
Other
Total
£m
£m
£m
£m
£m
At 1 January 2015
(1.2)
(2.3)
1.3
0.2
(2.0)
Charged/credited to income statement
(2.7)
2.8
(0.1)
(0.1)
(0.1)
Charged credited to other comprehensive income
—
0.2
—
—
0.2
At 1 January 2016
(3.9)
0.7
1.2
0.1
(1.9)
Charged/credited to income statement
(2.7)
—
(0.2)
—
(2.9)
Charged credited to other comprehensive income
—
(0.6)
0.4
—
(0.2)
At 1 January 2017
(6.6)
0.1
1.4
0.1
(5.0)
Charged/credited to income statement
—
—
(0.2)
—
(0.2)
Charged credited to other comprehensive income
—
—
0.4
—
0.4
At 31 December 2017
(6.6)
0.1
1.6
0.1
(4.8)
6.
Property, plant and equipment
This note shows the cost, depreciation and net book value of the physical assets controlled by the
Target Group that are used to generate revenue.
Accounting policy
Property, plant and equipment are initially measured at cost. Cost comprises the purchase price
and directly attributable costs of bringing the asset to the location and condition necessary for it to
be capable of operating in the manner intended by management. Property, plant and equipment
are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment in value.
37
Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis to write down assets to their residual value evenly
over the estimated useful lives of the assets from the date of acquisition. An asset’s net book
value is its cost less any depreciation (including impairment, if required) charged to date.
The table below shows the range of useful lives applied at the purchase date and the average
remaining useful life of an asset in the main categories of asset the Target Group owns in years:
Average remaining UEL (range at purchase date)
Buildings
14
Hydro-electric plant
14 (4-105)
Gas-fired plant
17 (2-40)
Other plant & equipment
3 (4-12)
Freehold land, held at cost, is considered to have an unlimited useful life and is not depreciated.
The assets’ residual value, useful lives and depreciation methods are reviewed and adjusted
prospectively if appropriate, or if there is an indication of a significant change since the last
reporting date.
Hydro
Plant
Gas
Plant
Other
Plant
Assets
under
Construction
Total
£m
£m
£m
£m
£m
Cost:
At 1 January 2015
148.0
939.9
144.0
33.1
1,265.0
Additions at cost
—
1.2
1.6
23.5
26.3
Disposals
(0.1)
(38.0)
(0.5)
(2.6)
(41.2)
Issues/transfers
2.4
20.2
0.1
(22.7)
—
At 1 January 2016
150.3
923.3
145.2
31.3
1,250.1
Additions at cost
—
1.1
1.5
17.6
20.2
Disposals
—
(2.5)
(8.2)
(0.5)
(11.2)
Issues/transfers
2.3
11.5
—
(13.8)
—
At 1 January 2017
152.6
933.4
138.5
34.6
1,259.1
Additions at cost
—
0.4
1.6
20.1
22.1
Disposals
—
(19.3)
(0.2)
(0.6)
(20.1)
Issues/transfers
4.6
20.3
(0.1)
(25.3)
(0.5)
At 31 December 2017
157.2
934.8
139.8
28.8
1,260.6
Accumulated depreciation:
At 1 January 2015
78.2
875.5
50.4
—
1,004.1
Charge for the year
4.4
8.2
3.9
—
16.5
Disposals
(0.1)
(36.8)
(0.3)
—
(37.2)
At 1 January 2016
82.5
846.9
54.0
—
983.4
Charge for the year
4.8
6.6
2.9
—
14.3
Disposals
—
(2.5)
(6.5)
—
(9.0)
At 1 January 2017
87.3
851.0
50.4
—
988.7
Charge for the year
4.7
8.7
3.3
—
16.7
Issues/transfers
(0.3)
—
—
—
(0.3)
Disposals
—
(18.7)
—
(18.7)
At 31 December 2017
91.7
841.0
53.7
—
986.4
Net book amount at 31 December 2015
67.8
76.4
91.2
31.3
266.7
Net book amount at 31 December 2016
65.3
82.4
88.1
34.6
270.4
Net book amount at 31 December 2017
65.5
93.8
86.1
28.8
274.2
7.
Intangible assets
Intangible assets are comprised of computer software controlled by the Target Group.
38
Accounting policy
Computer software assets are measured at cost. Cost comprises the purchase price (net of any
discount or rebate) and any directly attributable costs in bringing the asset into the condition and
use required for use as intended by management. Software assets are amortised to the income
statement on a straight-line basis over periods of up to five years.
Computer
Software
£m
Cost:
At 1 January 2015
7.8
Additions at cost
0.2
Disposals
—
At 1 January 2016
8.0
Additions at cost
0.9
Disposals
(0.4)
At 1 January 2017
8.5
Additions at cost
0.3
Transfer from property, plant & equipment
0.5
At 31 December 2017
9.3
Accumulated depreciation:
At 1 January 2015
6.5
Charge for the year
0.6
Disposals
—
At 1 January 2016
7.1
Charge for the year
0.5
Disposals
(0.3)
At 1 January 2017
7.3
Charge for the year
0.7
Transfer from property, plant & equipment
0.3
At 31 December 2017
8.3
Net book amount at 31 December 2015
0.9
Net book amount at 31 December 2016
1.2
Net book amount at 31 December 2017
1.0
8.
Trade and other receivables
Trade receivables represent amounts owed to the Target Group by customers for goods or
services provided but not yet paid for. Other receivables include accrued income, which is income
earned in the period but not yet invoiced, largely in respect of electricity delivered that will be
invoiced the following month, and prepayments, which are amounts paid by the Target Group for
which the relevant goods or services are yet to be received or utilised.
Accounting policy
Trade and other receivables that have no stated interest rate and are due to be settled within one
year are initially and subsequently measured at the undiscounted amount of consideration
expected to be received, net of impairment.
39
Trade and other receivables that have a stated interest rate are initially measured at the
transaction price. Subsequently, such instruments are measured at amortised cost using the
effective interest method.
Years ended 31 December
2017
2016
2015
£m
£m
£m
Amounts falling due within one year:
Trade receivables
8.0
9.4
6.3
Accrued income
11.0
5.6
8.3
Prepayments and other receivables
1.7
3.0
3.4
External trade & other receivables
20.7
18.0
18.0
Amounts due from Related Parties
117.0
98.5
104.9
Total trade & other receivables
137.7
116.5
122.9
Amounts due from Related Parties reflect amounts receivable from other companies within the
Iberdrola group principally in respect of sales of electricity and ROCs.
Trade receivables and accrued income are stated net of a provision for impairment of doubtful
debts totalling £6.3 million (2016: £4.4 million) (2015: £1.7 million). The credit risk of the Target
Group relates to counterparties in the energy industry or financial institutions operating in energy
markets. The carrying amount of receivables represents the maximum exposure of the Target
Group to credit risk.
9.
Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables represent amounts owed to suppliers (for goods and services provided),
tax authorities and other creditors that are due to be paid in the ordinary course of business.
The Target Group makes accruals for amounts that will fall due for payment in the future as a
result of its current activities.
Accounting policy
Trade and other payables that have no stated interest rate and are due to be settled within one
year are initially and subsequently measured at the undiscounted amount of consideration
expected to be received.
Trade and other payables that have a stated interest rate are initially measured at the transaction
price. Subsequently, such instruments are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest
method.
Years ended 31 December
2017
2016
2015
£m
£m
£m
Amounts falling due within one year:
Fuel accruals
0.1
0.1
0.1
Trade payables
5.7
7.4
8.2
Other taxes & social security
16.7
19.9
12.1
Capital payables and accruals
5.2
4.6
5.6
Other payables
1.5
1.6
2.4
External trade & other payables
29.2
33.6
28.4
Amounts due to related parties
113.6
66.4
113.2
Total trade & other payables
142.8
100.0
141.6
Amounts falling due after more than one year:
Deferred income
0.3
0.4
0.5
40
10. Borrowings from related parties
The Target Group has historically been funded by borrowings from Related Parties. The amounts
outstanding under such arrangements are shown in the table below.
Years ended 31 December
2017
2016
2015
£m
£m
£m
Falling due within one year
402.4
520.3
437.0
Falling due after more than one year
100.0
—
—
Total borrowings
502.4
520.3
437.0
Amounts falling due within one year attract a variable interest rate of base rate plus 1 per cent.
and are repayable on demand.
Amounts falling due after more than one year attract a fixed interest rate of 2.66 per cent. and
have fixed repayment dates in 2027.
Related party borrowings will be settled as part of the transaction. There are no external
borrowings in the Target Group.
11. Inventory
Inventory reflects the cost of fuel pellets produced at the Target Group’s biomass-from-waste plant
but not yet sold.
12. Cash generated from operations
This note shows adjustments for any non-cash accounting items in the combined income
statement and changes in working capital to reconcile net profit for the year to the amount of cash
generated from the Target Group’s operations.
Years ended 31 December
2017
2016
2015
£m
£m
£m
Profit for the year
13.8
11.3
9.5
Adjustments for:
Interest payable and similar charges
6.8
6.5
11.8
Interest receivable
(0.1)
—
—
Taxation
(1.0)
0.8
(4.3)
Depreciation
16.7
14.3
16.5
Amortisation
0.7
0.5
0.6
Gains on disposal
(1.6)
—
(0.3)
Asset obsolescence charges
0.8
0.9
0.8
Unrealised losses on derivative contracts
—
—
14.2
Defined benefit current service cost
2.9
2.6
2.8
Change in provisions
0.2
1.0
(0.2)
Operating cash flows before movement in working
capital
39.2
37.9
51.4
Changes in working capital:
Receivables
(21.3)
6.4
(5.5)
Payables
41.1
(30.6)
(92.8)
Inventories
(0.1)
(0.2)
0.1
Total Increase / Decrease in Working Capital
19.7
(24.4)
(98.2)
Defined benefit pension contributions
(4.5)
(3.3)
(3.4)
Provisions paid
(0.2)
(1.2)
(0.5)
Cash generated from/(absorbed by) operations
54.2
9.0
(50.7)
41
13. Employees
This note provides a breakdown of the cost of the Target Group’s employees. The average
number of employees is also provided.
Years ended 31 December
2017
2016
2015
£m
£m
£m
Wages & salaries
17.6
17.2
17.3
Social security costs
1.8
1.8
1.7
Pension costs
3.6
3.0
3.3
Less capitalised staff costs
(1.0)
(1.4)
(1.4)
22.0
20.6
20.9
Average monthly number of people employed
Years ended 31 December
2017
2016
2015
(number)
(number)
(number)
Operations
254
258
259
Administrative services
26
26
27
280
284
286
The note above does not reflect the number of employees that will transfer upon completion of the
transaction.
14. Provisions
Accounting policy
Provisions are recognised where the Target Group has a legal or constructive present obligation
as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Target Group will be required to settle that
obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Specifically, provision is made for the estimated decommissioning costs at the end of the useful
economic life of the Target Group’s gas-fired generating assets. Decommissioning provisions are
not made in respect of the hydro assets nor the biomass-from-waste facility. The remaining life of
the hydro assets is too long to be able to reliably estimate the cost of decommissioning and
following the effects of discounting, the amount is not expected to be material.
42
The amount provided represents the present value of the expected costs. The discount rate used
is a risk-free pre-tax rate of 1.8 per cent., reflecting the fact that the estimated future cash flows
have built-in risks specific to the liability.
Decommissioning
Other
Total
£m
£m
£m
Carrying amount at 1 January 2015
8.7
0.9
9.6
Additions
1.5
0.2
1.7
Adjustment for changes in assumptions
—
—
—
Unwinding of discount
0.2
—
0.2
Utilisation
—
(0.5)
(0.5)
Released
—
(0.4)
(0.4)
Carrying amount at 1 January 2016
10.4
0.2
10.6
Additions
1.1
1.0
2.1
Adjustment for changes in assumptions
—
—
—
Unwinding of discount
0.3
—
0.3
Utilisation
—
(1.2)
(1.2)
Released
—
—
—
Carrying amount at 1 January 2017
11.8
—
11.8
Additions
0.4
0.2
0.6
Adjustment for changes in assumptions
—
—
—
Unwinding of discount
0.2
—
0.2
Utilisation
(0.2)
—
(0.2)
Released
—
—
—
Carrying amount at 31 December 2017
12.2
0.2
12.4
15. Retirement benefit obligations
Defined contribution scheme
The Target Group operates a defined contribution pension scheme. Pension costs for the defined
contribution scheme are as follows:
Years ended 31 December
2017
2016
2015
£m
£m
£m
Total contributions to defined contribution pension schemes
included in staff costs
0.4
0.5
0.4
Defined benefit scheme
The Target Group participates in a defined benefit pension scheme, the ScottishPower Pension
Scheme (“SPPS”). The SPPS is closed to new entrants. Members who joined prior to this closure
continue to accrue benefits as part of the scheme.
The Target Group has not previously calculated its share of the SPPS assets and obligation
separately. For the purpose of this historical financial information, an exercise has been
undertaken by a qualified actuary to establish the Target Group’s allocation of the scheme assets
and its liabilities as at 31 December 2017 on a basis proportionate to the participation of the
Target Group’s employees in the overall scheme. The information for 2016 and 2015 has been
calculated in a manner consistent with this assessment, as noted in the Basis of preparation.
Since the amounts relating to the Target Group are based on an allocation of the SPPS assets
and liabilities, certain disclosures (including a breakdown of the nature of the scheme assets and a
sensitivity analysis to the key assumptions) have not been provided.
43
The principal assumptions applied in measuring the present value of the defined benefit obligation,
were as follows:
Assumptions
Years ended 31 December
2017
2016
2015
%
%
%
Discount rate
2.6
2.9
3.8
Inflation
3.2
3.0
3.1
Rate of increase deferred pensions
3.2
3.0
3.1
Rate of increase in pensions payments
3.1
2.9
3.0
Rate of increase in pensionable salaries
3.7
3.5
3.6
Balance Sheet Liability
Years ended 31 December
2017
2016
2015
£m
£m
£m
Allocated share of defined benefit obligation
(71.6)
(68.6)
(59.9)
Allocated share of fair value of plan assets
65.0
62.7
55.3
Net liability recognised in the balance sheet
(6.6)
(5.9)
(4.6)
Amounts recognised in the income statement
Years ended 31 December
2017
2016
2015
£m
£m
£m
Allocated share of current service cost (in staff costs)
2.9
2.6
2.8
Allocated share of interest on net defined benefit
liability (in net interest costs)
0.1
0.1
0.1
Total amounts recognised in income statement
3.0
2.7
2.9
Actuarial losses
Years ended 31 December
2017
2016
2015
£m
£m
£m
Cumulative actuarial losses at 1 January
(1.8)
0.1
—
Actuarial losses recognised in other comprehensive
income in the year
(2.2)
(1.9)
0.1
Cumulative actuarial losses at 31 December
(4.0)
(1.8)
0.1
Changes in present value of defined benefit obligation
Years ended 31 December
2017
2016
2015
£m
£m
£m
Allocated share of defined benefit obligation at 1 January
68.6
59.9
59.9
Current service cost
2.9
2.6
2.8
Employee contributions
0.1
0.1
0.1
Interest cost
0.1
0.1
0.1
Actuarial losses/(gains)
4.5
9.6
(0.6)
Benefits paid
(4.6)
(3.7)
(2.4)
Allocated share of defined benefit obligation at
31 December
71.6
68.6
59.9
44
Changes in fair value of plan assets
Years ended 31 December
2017
2016
2015
£m
£m
£m
Allocated share of fair value of plan assets at 1 January
62.7
55.3
54.7
Interest income on plan assets
—
—
—
Employee contributions
0.1
0.1
0.1
Employer contributions
4.5
3.3
3.4
Remeasurement gains/(losses)
2.3
7.7
(0.5)
Benefits paid
(4.6)
(3.7)
(2.4)
Allocated share of fair value of plan assets at
31 December
65.0
62.7
55.3
16. Risk management disclosures
Capital and liquidity risk
The capital structure of the Target Group consists of borrowings from Related Parties (including
current and non-current interest-bearing loans as shown in Note 10).
Funding and liquidity requirements have historically been managed centrally by a Related Party,
through the issue or repayment of related party borrowings.
Commodity price risk
The Target Group is potentially exposed to the effect of fluctuations in commodity prices,
particularly the price of electricity and the price of gas. Historically, this exposure has been
managed by a Related Party.
The Target Group has historically sold all of its output to, and procured all of its commodities from,
related parties at prices reflecting the price achieved by the related party in the relevant market.
Accordingly, the results of the Target Group over the period presented reflect fluctuations in
commodity prices over the period after taking into account these risk management activities
undertaken by a Related Party.
Foreign currency, interest and credit risk
Owing to the central management of these risks within the Iberdrola group, the Target Group has
not historically been materially exposed to foreign currency, interest or credit risk. The maximum
extent of credit risk faced by the Target Group is reflected in the carrying amount of receivables
shown in Note 8.
17. Financial instruments
Derivative financial instruments
The Target Group holds a small number of foreign currency forward purchase contracts for the
purpose of securing the sterling cost of purchases denominated in a currency other than sterling.
These contracts are recognised in the balance sheet and measured at fair value. The contracts
are designated into hedge accounting relationships in accordance with IFRS and, accordingly,
changes in the fair value of the contracts during each period are recognised as a component of
other comprehensive income.
Historically, the Target Group has used forward purchase contracts to secure the price of gas
purchases. The unwind of the last of these arrangements can be seen in the income statement in
2015 (unrealised losses of £14.2 million).
Other financial instruments
The Target Group holds a variety of non-derivative financial instruments, including amounts due
from and owing to Related Parties, and trade payables and receivables arising from operations.
45
Trade and other receivables (Note 8) and trade and other payables (Note 9) generally have short
times to maturity. For this reason, their carrying values, on the amortised cost basis, approximate
to their fair value.
18. Commitments
The Target Group has a number of financial commitments (i.e. a contractual requirement to make
a cash payment in the future) that are not recorded in the balance sheet as the contract is not yet
due for delivery.
Years ended 31 December
2017
2016
2015
£m
£m
£m
Contracts placed for future capital expenditure not
provided in the financial statements
2.1
1.3
1.2
Future commitments under support contracts
13.7
10.8
15.2
15.8
12.1
16.4
The contractual maturity of future commitments is as follows:
Years ended 31 December
2017
2016
2015
£m
£m
£m
Within one year
13.2
11.1
14.2
Between two to five years
2.6
1.0
2.2
15.8
12.1
16.4
The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as
follows:
Years ended 31 December
2017
2016
2015
£m
£m
£m
Within one year
0.7
0.9
0.8
Within two to five years
2.8
3.5
2.9
After five years
11.8
6.4
6.4
15.3
10.8
10.1
19. General information
ScottishPower Generation Limited, registered company number SC189124, is a private company
limited by shares incorporated in Scotland. Its registered address is 320 St. Vincent Street,
Glasgow G2 5AD.
ScottishPower Generation Limited and its subsidiary have one principal activity: the supply of
energy in the United Kingdom.
The subsidiary of ScottishPower Generation Limited at 31 December 2017 was:
Name
Country of Incorporation
Class of Shares
Holding
Principal activity
SMW Limited
Scotland
Ordinary
100%
Production of fuel pellets
20. New accounting standards
As at the date of the most recent balance sheet included in this historical financial information,
certain new or amended accounting standards, which have not been applied in the preparation of
this historical financial information, were in issue but not yet effective.
A listing of new standards, interpretations and pronouncements which are in issue but not
yet effective
IFRS 2 – Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions – effective for
annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018
46
IFRS 9 – Financial Instruments – effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018
IFRS 15 – Revenue from Contracts with Customers – effective for annual periods beginning on or
after 1 January 2018
IAS 40 (amended) – Investment Property – effective for annual periods beginning on or after
1 January 2018
IFRIC 22 – Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration – effective for annual
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018
IFRIC 23 – Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments – effective for annual periods beginning on or
after 1 January 2019
IFRS 16 – Leases – effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019
IFRS 10 (amended) – Consolidated Financial Statements, and IAS 28 (amended) – Investments in
Associates and Joint Ventures (2011) – effective date deferred indefinitely
Adoption of the above standards in future periods is not expected to have a material impact on the
financial statements of the Target Group at 31 December 2017.
IFRS 16 – Leases
IFRS 16 introduces a new model for accounting for leases. The principal change compared to the
current standard (IAS 17 – Leases) is to record leases previously classified as operating leases in
the balance sheet, subject to exemptions and exceptions for short-term and low-value leases.
The Target Group’s principal leases relate to property, plant and equipment. Most of these leases
are classified as operating leases under IAS 17. The Target Group expects to recognise
‘right-of-use’ assets and corresponding liabilities, where the Target Group is a lessee.
The precise effect of the above change on the Target Group’s balance sheet and income
statement has not yet been quantified. At 31 December 2017, the Target Group had
non-cancellable operating lease commitments of £15.3 million.
21. Related party transactions
A related party is either an individual with control or significant influence over the Target Group, or
a company that is linked to the Target Group by investment (i.e. another company ultimately
owned and controlled by Iberdrola S.A., associate or joint venture) or a related individual (i.e. an
individual with significant influence or control over both entities).
The Target Group’s principal related parties are other entities ultimately owned by Iberdrola S.A.
Throughout this historical financial information, references to transactions or balances with
Related Parties refer to any transaction or balance with another entity ultimately owned and
controlled by Iberdrola S.A.
Entities with significant influence over the Target Group
At 31 December 2017, SPGEN and SMW were wholly owned subsidiaries of Iberdrola S.A. The
ultimate controlling party was Iberdrola S.A.
Purchases from related parties
Historically the Target Group has procured all of its commodity requirements from Related Parties
at prices reflecting the value achieved by the relevant related party with an external counterparty.
The value of purchases during each period amounted to £456.6 million, £429.0 million and
£495.9 million for 2017, 2016 and 2015 respectively. The amount payable in respect of these
purchases at 31 December 2017, 2016 and 2015 is shown in Note 9 as amounts due to Related
Parties.
Sales to related parties
Historically the Target Group has sold all of its electrical output and ROCs to Related Parties, at
prices reflecting the value achieved by the relevant related party with an external counterparty.
47
The value of sales during each period amounted to £535.0 million, £531.7 million and
£593.7 million for 2017, 2016 and 2015 respectively. The amount receivable in respect of these
sales at 31 December 2017, 2016 and 2015 is shown in Note 8 as amounts receivable from
Related Parties.
Commitments with related parties
Of the commitments shown in Note 18, £nil were with Related Parties (2016: £nil) (2015: £0.1
million).
Transactions with key management personnel
The remuneration of the key management personnel of the Target Group, is set out below in
aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 (Related Party Disclosures).
Years ended 31 December
2017
2016
2015
£m
£m
£m
Salaries and short-term benefits
1.2
1.4
1.1
Aggregate amounts receivable under shared-based
incentive schemes
0.5
0.4
0.4
Employer contributions to pension schemes
0.2
0.3
0.2
1.9
2.1
1.7
All of the key management personnel of the Target Group were remunerated for their work on
behalf of Related Parties in addition to the Target Group. Their remuneration, shown in the table
above, is not apportioned for their work specifically in respect of the Target Group, and includes
amounts paid by Related Parties. Of the nine (2016: ten) (2015: eight) key management personnel
of the Target Group, two (2016: four) (2015: one) were paid directly by the Target Group.
Amounts included in the table above reflect the remuneration of two (2016: two) (2015: two)
members of the board of directors of SPGEN in the relevant period.
The highest paid director of SPGEN received remuneration of £602,000 (2016: £615,000) (2015:
£489,000). The value of the Target Group’s contributions paid to a defined contribution pension
scheme in respect of the highest paid director amount to £92,000 (2016: £85,000) (2015:
£77,000).
48
Part B: Accountant’s Report on Historical Financial Information relating to the ScottishPower
Generation Group
Deloitte LLP
1 New Street Square
London
EC4A 3HQ
The Board of Directors
J.P. Morgan Securities
on behalf of Drax Group plc
25 Bank Street
Drax Power Station
Canary Wharf
Selby
London
North Yorkshire
E14 5JP
YO8 8PH
5 December 2018
Dear Sirs
ScottishPower Generation Group (the “Target Group”)
We report on the financial information for the 3 years ending 31 December 2017 set out in Part V of the
Class 1 Circular relating to the acquisition of the Target Group dated 5 December 2018 by Drax Group
plc (the “Company” and, together with its subsidiaries, the “Group”) (the “Circular”). This financial
information has been prepared for inclusion in the Circular on the basis of the accounting policies and
basis of preparation set out in the financial information. This report is required by Listing Rule 13.5.21R
and is given for the purpose of complying with that requirement and for no other purpose.
Responsibilities
As described in paragraph I Part VIII the Directors of the Company are responsible for preparing the
financial information on the basis of preparation set out in the accounting policies.
It is our responsibility to form an opinion on the financial information and to report our opinion to you.
Save for any responsibility which we may have to those persons to whom this report is expressly
addressed and which we may have as a result of the inclusion of this report in the Circular, to the
fullest extent permitted by law we do not assume any responsibility and will not accept any liability to
any other person for any loss suffered by any such other person as a result of, arising out of, or in
connection with this report or our statement, required by and given solely for the purposes of complying
with Listing Rule 13.4.1R(6), consenting to its inclusion in the Circular.
Basis of opinion
We conducted our work in accordance with Standards for Investment Reporting issued by the Auditing
Practices Board in the United Kingdom. Our work included an assessment of evidence relevant to the
amounts and disclosures in the financial information. It also included an assessment of significant
estimates and judgments made by those responsible for the preparation of the financial information
and whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the entity’s circumstances, consistently applied
and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our work so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we
considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that
the financial information is free from material misstatement whether caused by fraud or other
irregularity or error.
49
Our work has not been carried out in accordance with auditing or other standards and practices
generally accepted in jurisdictions outside the United Kingdom, including the United States of America,
and accordingly should not be relied upon as if it had been carried out in accordance with those
standards and practices.
Opinion on financial information
In our opinion, the financial information gives, for the purposes of the Circular, a true and fair view of
the state of affairs of the Target Group as at 31 December 2015, 2016 and 2017 and of its profits, cash
flows and changes in equity for the 3 years ending 31 December 2015, 2016 and 2017 in accordance
with the basis of preparation set out in the financial information and has been prepared in a form that is
consistent with the accounting policies adopted in the Company’s latest annual accounts.
Yours faithfully
Deloitte LLP
Deloitte LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales with registered number
OC303675 and its registered office at 1 New Street Square, London EC4A 3HQ, United Kingdom.
Deloitte LLP is the United Kingdom affiliate of Deloitte NWE LLP, a member firm of Deloitte Touche
Tohmatsu Limited, a UK private company limited by guarantee (“DTTL”). DTTL and each of its member
firms are legally separate and independent entities. DTTL and Deloitte NWE LLP do not provide
services to clients. Please see www.deloitte.com/about to learn more about our global network of
member firms.
50
PART VI
UNAUDITED PRO FORMA FINANCIAL INFORMATION
RELATING TO THE ENLARGED GROUP
Part A: Unaudited pro forma financial information
The unaudited pro forma income statement and unaudited pro forma net assets statement of the
Enlarged Group (together the “Unaudited Pro Forma Financial Information”) set out in Part A in this
Part VI (Unaudited Pro Forma Financial Information relating to the Enlarged Group) has been prepared
on the basis of the notes below, and in accordance with Listing Rule 13.3.3R, to illustrate the impact of
the Acquisition on the income statement of Drax Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2017, as if
it had taken place on 1 January 2017, and on the net assets of Drax Group plc as at 31 December
2017, as if it had taken place at that date.
The Unaudited Pro Forma Financial Information has been prepared on a basis consistent with the
accounting policies and presentation adopted by Drax Group plc in relation to its consolidated financial
statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 and includes the combined income statement of the
ScottishPower Generation Group for the year ended 31 December 2017 and net assets of the
ScottishPower Generation Group as at 31 December 2017.
The Unaudited Pro Forma Financial Information has been prepared for illustrative purposes only and,
by its nature, addresses a hypothetical situation and does not, therefore, represent the Enlarged
Group’s actual financial position or results. The Unaudited Pro Forma Financial Information does not
purport to represent what the Enlarged Group’s financial position and results of operations actually
would have been if the Acquisition had been completed on the dates indicated, nor does it purport to
represent the results of operations for any future period or the financial condition at any future date.
The Unaudited Pro Forma Financial Information does not constitute financial statements within the
meaning of section 434 of the Companies Act 2006. Shareholders should read the whole of this
Circular and not rely solely on the summarised financial information contained in this Part VI
(Unaudited Pro Forma Financial Information relating to the Enlarged Group).
51
Part 1 Unaudited Pro Forma Statement of Net Assets
Adjustments
Drax Group plc
at
31 December
2017
ScottishPower
Generation
Group at
31 December
2017
Adjustments
Pro forma
net assets at
31 December
2017
£m
£m
£m
£m
(Note 1)
(Note 2)
(Note 3)
Assets
Non-current assets
Goodwill and other intangible assets
401.9
1.0
—
402.9
Property, plant and equipment
1,661.9
274.2
456.8
2,392.9
Other fixed asset investments
1.3
—
—
1.3
Deferred tax assets
22.7
—
—
22.7
Derivative financial instruments
190.7
0.3
—
191.0
2,278.5
275.5
456.8
3,010.8
Current assets
Inventories
272.1
1.0
—
273.1
ROC and LEC assets
145.5
—
—
145.5
Trade and other receivables
417.5
20.7
—
438.2
Amounts receivable from Related Parties
—
117.0
(117.0)
—
Derivative financial instruments
175.5
—
—
175.5
Cash and cash equivalents
222.3
—
—
222.3
Current tax assets
6.2
1.3
—
7.5
1,239.1
140.0
(117.0)
1,262.1
Total assets
3,517.6
415.5
339.8
4,272.9
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables
736.5
29.2
—
765.7
Amounts payable to Related Parties
—
113.6
(113.6)
—
Borrowings
18.6
—
—
18.6
Borrowings from Related Parties
402.4
(402.4)
—
Derivative financial instruments
109.6
—
—
109.6
Provisions
—
0.4
—
0.4
864.7
545.6
(516.0)
894.3
Net current assets / (liabilities)
374.4
(405.6)
399.0
367.8
Non-current liabilities
Trade and other payables
—
0.3
—
0.3
Borrowings
571.1
—
723.2
1,294.3
Borrowings from Related Parties
—
100.0
(100.0)
—
Derivative financial instruments
94.2
—
—
94.2
Provisions
36.3
12.0
—
48.3
Deferred tax liabilities
230.0
4.8
—
234.8
Retirement benefit obligations
1.2
6.6
—
7.8
932.8
123.7
623.2
1,679.7
Total liabilities
1,797.5
669.3
107.2
2,574.0
Net assets / (liabilities)
1,720.1
(253.8)
232.6
1,698.9
52
Notes
No adjustment has been made to reflect any synergies that may arise after the transaction has
completed.
No adjustment has been made to reflect the financial results of Drax Group plc or the ScottishPower
Generation Group since 31 December 2017.
(1) The net assets of Drax Group plc as at 31 December 2017 have been extracted without
adjustment from the audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December
2017.
(2) The net assets of the ScottishPower Generation Group have been extracted without adjustment
from the historical financial information included in Part V (Historical Financial Information relating
to the ScottishPower Generation Group) of this Circular.
(3) The Unaudited Pro Forma Statement of Net Assets has been prepared on the basis that the
transaction will be treated as a business combination in accordance with IFRS 3. However, it does
not reflect any fair value adjustments to the acquired assets and liabilities, as the fair value
measurement of these items will only be performed at the date of Completion. The fair value
adjustments, when finalised, may be material. For the purpose of the pro forma statement of net
assets,
the
excess
purchase
consideration
over
the
carrying
amount
of
net
assets
of
£456.8 million has been attributed to property, plant & equipment.
The preliminary uplift in the value of property, plant & equipment has been calculated as follows:
£m
£m
Total consideration paid
702.0
Net liabilities of the ScottishPower Generation Group
(253.8)
Purchase consideration in excess of net liabilities
955.8
Adjustments for Related Party balances to be settled as part of the transaction:
- Amounts receivable from Related Parties
117.0
- Amounts payable to Related Parties
(113.6)
- Related Party borrowings
(502.4)
(499.0)
Preliminary uplift in value of Property, plant & equipment
456.8
Upon completion of the Acquisition, the Drax Group will draw down on an acquisition bridge facility
with a maximum value of £725 million. For the purpose of the pro forma statement of net assets,
the entire purchase price of £702 million plus estimated acquisition-related costs of £23 million
have been funded by the acquisition bridge facility. Drax may use available cash reserves to
reduce the amount drawn on completion.
The acquisition-related costs are not included in the calculation of the preliminary uplift as they will
be expensed as transaction costs or capitalised as borrowing costs, as required by IFRS.
£18 million of the acquisition-related costs are expected to be directly attributable to the purchase
of the ScottishPower Generation Group. These costs will be expensed in the income statement.
£5 million of the acquisition-related costs are expected to be directly attributable to the acquisition
bridge facility. These costs will be capitalised and offset against total borrowings and are expected
to be amortised over the 19-month term of the bridge facility as required by IFRS. This increases
interest payable by £3.2 million (being 12/19 months’ amortisation of these costs) and reduces
borrowings by £1.8 million in the pro forma statements.
53
Part 2 Unaudited Pro Forma Income Statement of the Enlarged Group
Adjustments
Drax Group plc
for the year ended
31 December
2017
ScottishPower
Generation
Group
for the year
ended
31 December
2017
Adjustments
Pro forma
Enlarged
Group
£m
£m
£m
£m
(Note 1)
(Note 2)
(Note 3)
Revenue
3,685.2
641.3
—
4,326.5
Fuel costs in respect of generation
(1,356.8)
(294.8)
—
(1,651.6)
Cost of power purchases
(974.6)
—
—
(974.6)
Grid Charges
(498.7)
(36.7)
—
(535.4)
Other energy supply costs
(310.1)
(201.8)
—
(511.9)
Total cost of sales
(3,140.2)
(533.3)
—
(3,673.5)
Gross profit
545.0
108.0
—
653.0
Operating and administrative expenses
(316.1)
(52.7)
—
(368.8)
Overheads allocated by Related Parties
—
(19.2)
—
(19.2)
EBITDA
228.9
36.1
—
265.0
Depreciation and amortisation
(166.3)
(17.4)
—
(183.7)
Asset obsolescence charges
—
(0.8)
—
(0.8)
Other losses
(0.4)
—
—
(0.4)
Acquisition – related costs
(7.8)
—
(18.0)
(25.8)
(Loss)/gain on disposal
(15.4)
1.6
—
(13.8)
Unrealised gains on derivative contracts
(156.1)
—
—
(156.1)
Operating (loss)/profit
(117.1)
19.5
(18.0)
(115.6)
Interest payable and similar charges
(66.3)
(6.8)
(29.8)
(102.9)
Interest receivable
0.2
0.1
—
0.3
(Loss)/Profit before tax
(183.2)
12.8
(47.8)
(218.2)
Taxation
32.1
1.0
9.2
42.3
(Loss)/Profit for the year attributable to equity
holders
(151.1)
13.8
(38.6)
(175.9)
54
Notes
No adjustment has been made to reflect any synergies that may arise after the transaction has
completed.
No adjustment has been made to reflect the financial results of Drax Group plc or the ScottishPower
Generation Group since 31 December 2017.
(1) Drax Group plc’s income statement for the year ended 31 December 2017 has been extracted
without adjustment from the audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended
31 December 2017.
(2) The ScottishPower Generation Group’s income statement for the year ended 31 December 2017
has been extracted without adjustment from the historical financial information included in Part V
(Historical Financial Information relating to the ScottishPower Generation Group) of this Circular.
(3) The adjustments reflect:
•
The estimated transaction costs of £18 million in ‘acquisition-related costs’, which will be
charged to the income statement as a non-recurring item.
•
Interest costs of £26.6 million on the acquisition debt raised in ‘interest payable and similar
charges’ which is expected to be a recurring item, plus a further £3.2 million of interest costs
relating to the amortisation of transaction costs relating to the bridge facility.
•
The estimated tax credit of £9.2 million arising from these costs using the standard rate of tax
that applied in the year ended 31 December 2017 of 19.25 per cent.
55
Part B: Accountant’s Report on Pro Forma Financial Information
Deloitte LLP
1 New Street Square
London
EC4A 3HQ
The Board of Directors
J.P. Morgan Securities plc
on behalf of Drax Group plc
25 Bank Street
Drax Power Station
Canary Wharf
Selby
London
North Yorkshire
E14 5JP
YO8 8PH
5 December 2018
Dear Sirs,
Drax Group plc (the “Company”)
We report on the pro forma financial information (the “Pro forma financial information”) set out in Part
VI of the Class 1 circular dated 5 December 2018 (the “Investment Circular”), which has been prepared
on the basis described in the notes, for illustrative purposes only, to provide information about how the
transaction might have affected the financial information presented on the basis of the accounting
policies adopted by the Company in preparing the financial statements for the period ending
31 December 2017. This report is required by the Commission Regulation (EC) No 809/2004 (the
“Prospectus Directive Regulation”) as applied by Listing Rule 13.3.3R and is given for the purpose of
complying with that requirement and for no other purpose.
Responsibilities
It is the responsibility of the directors of the Company (the “Directors”) to prepare the Pro forma
financial information in accordance with Annex II items 1 to 6 of the Prospectus Directive as applied by
Listing Rule 13.3.3R.
It is our responsibility to form an opinion, as to the proper compilation of the Pro forma financial
information and to report that opinion to you in accordance with Annex II item 7 of the Prospectus
Directive Regulation as applied by Listing Rule 13.3.3R.
Save for any responsibility which we may have to those persons to whom this report is expressly
addressed and which we may have as a result of the inclusion of this report in the Investment Circular,
to the fullest extent permitted by law we do not assume any responsibility and will not accept any
liability to any other person for any loss suffered by any such other person as a result of, arising out of,
or in connection with this report or our statement, required by and given solely for the purposes of
complying with Listing Rule 13.4.1R (6), consenting to its inclusion in the Investment Circular.
In providing this opinion we are not updating or refreshing any reports or opinions previously made by
us on any financial information used in the compilation of the Pro forma financial information, nor do we
accept responsibility for such reports or opinions beyond that owed to those to whom those reports or
opinions were addressed by us at the dates of their issue.
Basis of Opinion
We conducted our work in accordance with the Standards for Investment Reporting issued by the
Auditing Practices Board in the United Kingdom. The work that we performed for the purpose of
making this report, which involved no independent examination of any of the underlying financial
information, consisted primarily of comparing the unadjusted financial information with the source
documents, considering the evidence supporting the adjustments and discussing the Pro forma
financial information with the Directors.
56
We planned and performed our work so as to obtain the information and explanations we considered
necessary in order to provide us with reasonable assurance that the Pro forma financial information
has been properly compiled on the basis stated and that such basis is consistent with the accounting
policies of the Company.
Our work has not been carried out in accordance with auditing or other standards and practices
generally accepted in jurisdictions outside the United Kingdom, including the United States of America,
and accordingly should not be relied upon as if it had been carried out in accordance with those
standards or practices.
Opinion
In our opinion:
(a) the Pro forma financial information has been properly compiled on the basis stated; and
(b) such basis is consistent with the accounting policies of the Company.
Yours faithfully
Deloitte LLP
Deloitte LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales with registered number
OC303675 and its registered office at 1 New Street Square, London EC4A 3HQ, United Kingdom.
Deloitte LLP is the United Kingdom affiliate of Deloitte NWE LLP, a member firm of Deloitte Touche
Tohmatsu Limited, a UK private company limited by guarantee (“DTTL”). DTTL and each of its member
firms are legally separate and independent entities. DTTL and Deloitte NWE LLP do not provide
services to clients. Please see www.deloitte.com/about to learn more about our global network of
member firms.
57
PART VII
PROFIT FORECASTS
1.
Drax 2018
In its 2017 Preliminary Results presentation, on 27 February 2018, Drax made the following
statement in relation to the outlook for 2018:
“Outlook for 2018 – continued growth in EBITDA.”
This statement (the “2018 Profit Forecast”) constitutes a profit forecast for the purposes of the
Listing Rules. The 2018 Profit Forecast relates to the 12 month period ending 31 December 2018,
compared to the 12 month period ended 31 December 2017.
At its 2018 interim results in August 2018, and again in the announcement of the Acquisition on
16 October 2018, Drax reaffirmed this guidance noting, respectively, that “full year expectations for
2018 are unchanged” and “Drax’s EBITDA expectations for the full year remain unchanged”.
The Directors have considered and confirm that the 2018 Profit Forecast remains correct at the
date of this Circular.
Basis of preparation
The 2018 Profit Forecast has been properly compiled on the basis of the assumptions stated
below and on the basis of the accounting policies of the Drax Group adopted in its financial
statements for the year ended 31 December 2017. Subsequent accounting policy changes include
the application of IFRS15 and IFRS9 which are not expected to materially change the EBITDA
results of the Drax Group. It also does not reflect the impact of IFRS16 which will apply in respect
of the 2019 Annual Report and Accounts.
The 2018 Profit Forecast has been prepared with reference to:
•
The unaudited actual results of Drax for the 10 months ended 31 October 2018; and
•
The projected financial results of Drax for November and December 2018.
The 2018 Profit Forecast is a best estimate of the EBITDA that Drax will generate in the twelve
months to 31 December 2018. Accordingly, there is a degree of uncertainty relating to the 2018
Profit Forecast and it is based on certain assumptions, which are set out below.
Principal assumptions
The 2018 Profit Forecast has been prepared on the basis of the following principal assumptions:
Assumptions within management’s control
1.
There is no change in the composition of the Drax Group.
2.
There is no material change to the manner in which the Drax Group operates.
3.
There are no material changes to the existing running costs or operating costs of the Drax
Group.
4.
Transaction costs and one-off costs associated with the Acquisition are not included.
Assumptions outside of management’s control
1.
There are no changes to recent market prices for clean spark spread, power, carbon and
other commodities.
2.
There are no material adverse events that have a significant impact on the performance of
any of the Drax Group’s assets, including more unplanned outages than would be expected in
the ordinary course.
3.
There are no material adverse events that have a significant impact on the Drax Group’s
commercial or trading activities.
4.
There is no material change in the management or control of the Drax Group.
58
5.
There is no material change to prevailing UK macroeconomic and political conditions prior to
31 December 2018.
6.
No capacity payments relating to the delivery period from 1 October 2018 to 31 December
2018 are received (reflecting the suspension of payments following the Capacity Market
Ruling).
7.
There are no further material changes in legislation or regulatory requirements (e.g. ROCs,
Capacity Market, grid charges) impacting the operations of or accounting policies applicable
to the Group.
2.
ScottishPower Generation Group 2019
On 16 October 2018, Drax announced the Acquisition. This included the following statement with
respect to the ScottishPower Generation Group:
“Expected EBITDA of £90-110 million in 2019.
The Portfolio is expected, based on recent power and commodity prices, to generate EBITDA in a
range of £90-110 million, and gross profits of £155 million to £175 million, of which around two
thirds is expected to come from non-commodity market sources, including system support
services, capacity payments, Daldowie and ROCs. Pumped storage and hydro activities represent
a significant proportion of the earnings associated with the portfolio.
For the purpose of the Profit Forecast, EBITDA is stated before any allocation of Group overheads
(as these will be an allocation of the existing Drax Group cost base which is not expected to
increase as a result of the acquisition of the Portfolio).”
This statement (the “2019 Profit Forecast”) constitutes a profit forecast for the purposes of the
Listing Rules. The 2019 Profit Forecast relates to the 12-month period ending 31 December 2019.
The Directors have considered and confirm that the 2019 Profit Forecast remains correct at the
date of this Circular on the basis of the assumptions below.
The Directors note the uncertainty of the assumption concerning the receipt of contracted capacity
payments due in 2019 and a sensitivity scenario in relation to this is set out below.
Basis of preparation
The 2019 Profit Forecast has been properly compiled on the basis of the assumptions stated
below, and on the basis of the accounting policies of the Drax Group adopted in its financial
statements for the year ended 31 December 2017. Subsequent accounting policy changes include
the application of IFRS15 and IFRS9 which are not initially expected to affect materially the
EBITDA results of the ScottishPower Generation Group. It also does not reflect the impact of
IFRS16 which will apply in respect of the 2019 Annual Report and Accounts.
The 2019 Profit Forecast has been prepared with reference to:
•
unaudited
2017
financial
statements
based
on
the
audited
financial
statements
of
ScottishPower Generation Limited and SMW Limited, adjusted to exclude assets and
operations that do not form part of the Portfolio and restated in accordance with Drax
accounting policies;
•
the audited financial statements of the entities forming the Portfolio for the year ended
31 December 2017;
•
the
unaudited
management
accounts
of
the
Portfolio
for
the
nine
months
ended
30 September 2018; and
•
on the basis of the projected financial performance of the Portfolio for the year ending
31 December 2019.
The 2019 Profit Forecast is a best estimate of the EBITDA that the ScottishPower Generation
Group will generate for a future period of a year in respect of assets and operations that are not
yet under the control of Drax. Accordingly the degree of uncertainty relating to the assumptions
underpinning the 2019 Profit Forecast is inherently greater than would be the case for a profit
forecast based on assets and operations under the control of Drax and/or which covered a shorter
future period.
59
The forecast cost base reflects the expectations of the Directors of the operating regime of the
Portfolio under Drax’s ownership and the central support it will require.
Principal assumptions
The 2019 Profit Forecast has been prepared on the basis of the following principal assumptions:
Assumptions within management’s control
1.
There is no change in the composition of the Portfolio.
2.
There is no material change to the manner in which these assets are operated.
3.
There are no material changes to the existing running costs or operating costs of the Portfolio.
4.
There will be no material restrictions on running each of the assets in the Portfolio other than
those that would be envisaged in the ordinary course.
5.
There are no material issues with the migration of services including trading and information
technology from the Seller to Drax.
6.
Transaction costs and one-off costs associated with the integration are not included.
Assumptions outside of management’s control
1.
Completion occurs on 31 December 2018.
2.
There is no material change to prevailing UK macroeconomic and political conditions prior to
31 December 2019.
3.
There are no material changes in market conditions in the electricity generating market nor
any changes to the UK energy supply mix.
4.
All contracted capacity payments payable in respect of the Portfolio which are due in 2019 are
received or accrued in 2019.
5.
There are no material changes in legislation or regulatory requirements (e.g. ROCs, Capacity
Market, grid charges) impacting the operations of or accounting policies applicable to the
Portfolio.
6.
There are no changes to recent market prices for clean spark spread, power, carbon and
other commodities.
7.
There is no material change from the historical 10-year average rainfall.
8.
There are no material adverse events that have a significant impact on the financial
performance of any of the acquired assets, including more unplanned outages than would be
expected in the ordinary course.
9.
Prior to Completion, the Portfolio will be operated in the ordinary course.
10. There are no material issues with the transitional services provided by the Seller to Drax
pursuant to the TSA, including the migration of such services to Drax.
11. There is no material change in the management or control of the Drax Group.
2019 Profit Forecast sensitivity to Capacity Market Ruling
The 2019 Profit Forecast is based on an assumption that Capacity Market payments expected to
be received by the Portfolio in 2019 will be paid or accrued in full in 2019 although this assumption
is subject to material uncertainty. The Directors have therefore considered a sensitivity scenario
illustrating the impact if none of these payments is received or accrued in 2019.
If the Portfolio does not receive any Capacity Market payments in 2019, the 2019 Profit Forecast
would be reduced by up to £47 million (from a range of £90 million to £110 million) down to a
range of £43 million to £63 million before considering any mitigating factors.
Any payments pursuant to the Capacity Market Arrangement will be cash adjustments to the
consideration and not included in EBITDA.
60
PART VIII
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
1.
Responsibility
Drax and the Directors, whose names appear in paragraph 3 below, accept responsibility for the
information contained in this Circular. To the best of the knowledge and belief of Drax and the
Directors (who have taken all reasonable care to ensure that such is the case) the information
contained in this Circular is in accordance with the facts and does not omit anything likely to
affect the import of such information.
2.
Drax
Drax was incorporated and registered in England and Wales as a public limited company on
13 September 2005 under the Companies Act 1985 with registered number 5562053 and the
name Drax Group plc. The principal legislation under which Drax operates is the Companies Acts
and the regulations made thereunder.
Drax is headquartered in the United Kingdom with its registered office at Drax Power Station,
Selby, North Yorkshire YO8 8PH and its telephone number is +44(0)1757 618381.
3.
The Directors and Executive Committee
The Directors of Drax are:
Name
Position
Philip Cox CBE
Chairman
Will Gardiner
Group Chief Executive Officer
Andy Koss
Chief Executive Officer, Drax Power
David Lindsell
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
Tim Cobbold
Independent Non-Executive Director
Tony Thorne
Independent Non-Executive Director
Nicola Hodson
Independent Non-Executive Director
David Nussbaum
Independent Non-Executive Director
Vanessa Simms
Independent Non-Executive Director
The Executive Committee of Drax comprises:
Name
Position
Will Gardiner
Group Chief Executive Officer
Andy Koss
Chief Executive Officer, Drax Power
Jonathan Kini
Chief Executive Officer, Drax Retail
Clare Harbord
Director of Corporate Affairs
Penny Small
Chief Transformation Officer
The business address of each Director and Executive Committee member is Drax’s registered
office.
61
4.
Directors’ and Executive Committee members’ interests in Ordinary Shares
4.1
Holdings in Ordinary Shares
As at 3 December 2018 (being the Latest Practicable Date), the interests of each Director and
Executive Committee member in the share capital of Drax are as follows:
Director
Number of Ordinary Shares
held
Percentage of issued
Ordinary Shares
Philip Cox CBE
60,000
0.014735
Will Gardiner
88,778
0.021803
Andy Koss
57,746
0.014182
David Lindsell
7,500
0.001842
Tim Cobbold
1,000
0.000246
Tony Thorne
7,500
0.001842
Nicola Hodson
0
0
David Nussbaum
7,500
0.001842
Vanessa Simms
0
0
Executive
Committee member
Number of Ordinary Shares
held
Percentage of issued
Ordinary Shares
Jonathan Kini
0
0
Clare Harbord
0
0
Penny Small
0
0
4.2
Other interests
As at 3 December 2018 (being the Latest Practicable Date), certain Executive Committee
members have the following interests in Ordinary Shares under a number of incentive plans:
Executive
Committee member
Name of share
plan and award
type
Grant date
Number of
shares subject
to award/
option
Vesting/ first
exercisable
date
Will Gardiner
BMP Deferred
02.03.2016
5,063
02.03.2019
BMP Matching
02.03.2016
353,504
02.03.2019
BMP Deferred
28.03.2017
50,486
28.03.2020
Performance Share Plan
15.03.2017
213,326
15.05.2020
Deferred Share Plan
05.03.2018
40,327
05.03.2021
Performance Share Plan
05.03.2018
363,725
05.03.2021
Andy Koss
BMP Matching
02.03.2016
61,999
02.03.2019
BMP Deferred
28.03.2017
40,130
28.03.2020
Performance Share Plan
15.05.2017
169,567
15.05.2020
Deferred Share Plan
05.03.2018
32,055
05.03.2021
Performance Share Plan
05.03.2018
218,063
05.03.2021
Jonathan Kini
BMP Matching
02.03.2016
87,599
02.03.2019
Performance Share Plan
15.05.2017
70,136
15.05.2020
Performance Share Plan
05.03.2018
98,039
05.03.2021
Clare Harbord
Performance Share Plan
15.05.2017
76,235
15.05.2020
Performance Share Plan
05.03.2018
98,039
05.03.2021
62
As at 3 December 2018 (being the Latest Practicable Date), certain Executive Committee
members have the following options under the Savings-Related Share Option Plan (SAYE):
Executive Committee
member
Date of grant
Number of
shares subject
to option
Option price (£)
Maturity date
Will Gardiner
01.05.2016
14,778
203.00
01.05.2021
Andy Koss
01.05.2018
8,551
210.50
01.05.2021
Jonathan Kini
01.05.2016
8,866
203.00
01.05.2019
Clare Harbord
01.05.2018
14,251
210.50
01.05.2023
5.
Details of the service contracts of the Directors
Details of the service contracts of the Directors are set out on page 103 of Drax’s 2017 Annual
Report and Accounts, save that of Vanessa Simms, who entered into a service contract for a
three-year term commencing 19 June 2018, with a one-month notice period.
6.
Major interests in shares
As at 3 December 2018 (being the Latest Practicable Date), Drax had received notification in
accordance with chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the following notifiable
interests in the voting rights of Ordinary Shares:
Name of Shareholder
Date notified to
the stock
exchange
Notified number
of voting rights
Notified percentage
of voting rights
Invesco Limited
19.10.2018
79,520,354
19.99%
Schroders plc
05.11.2018
55,463,866
13.96%
Artemis Investment Management LLP
20.08.2018
20,156,858
5.03%
Orbis Holdings Limited
19.10.2018
19,890,687
5.00%
7.
Material contracts
7.1
Drax Group
The following contracts (not being contracts entered into in the ordinary course of business) have
either: (i) been entered into by Drax or another member of the Drax Group within the period of
two years immediately preceding the date of this Circular and are or may be material; or (ii) been
entered into by Drax or another member of the Drax Group which contain any provisions under
which any member of the Drax Group has any obligation or entitlement which is, or may be,
material as at the date of this Circular:
(A) Acquisition Agreement and the Transitional Services Agreement
Details of the terms of the Acquisition Agreement, the Acquisition Agreement Amendment
Deed and the Transitional Services Agreement are set out in Part IV (Principal Terms of the
Acquisition).
(B) Acquisition Facility Agreement
Drax Corporate entered into an acquisition bridge facility agreement on 16 October 2018
between Drax Corporate as borrower, Drax Group Holdings as original guarantor, Barclays
Bank PLC, Bank of America Merrill Lynch International Limited and J.P. Morgan Securities
plc as mandated lead arrangers, Barclays Bank PLC as facility agent, and Barclays Bank
PLC, Bank of America Merrill Lynch International Limited and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.,
London Branch as original lenders.
63
Under the Acquisition Facility Agreement the lenders will make available the Acquisition
Facility, a £725 million committed acquisition facility, including without limitation, a certain
funds facility for the purposes of the Acquisition.
Borrower and guarantors
Drax Corporate is the borrower under the Acquisition Facility Agreement. The Acquisition
Facility will be guaranteed on a joint and several basis by the Guarantors, which are Drax
Group Holdings and certain subsidiaries of Drax Group Holdings.
Security
The finance parties under the Acquisition Facility Agreement will (subject to certain agreed
security principles) have the benefit of first ranking security over: (i) the issued share capital
of Drax Group Holdings; (ii) certain receivables owed to Drax by Drax Group Holdings;
(iii) the issued share capital of Drax Corporate and each Guarantor and (iv) substantially all
of the assets of Drax Group Holdings, Drax Corporate and each Guarantor (other than any
real property located in the United States) (together, the “Common Security”). The
Acquisition Facility may be secured by further security interests from time to time subject to
certain agreed security principles.
The Acquisition Facility will be subject to the provisions of the Intercreditor Agreement.
Under the terms of the Intercreditor Agreement, in the event of an enforcement of the
Common Security, the lenders under the Acquisition Facility Agreement will receive
proceeds from the enforcement of the Common Security or from certain distressed disposals
of the Common Security pari passu with the holders of the 2022 Notes and the 2025 Notes
and only after certain other creditors, including the lenders under the Senior Facilities
Agreement and counterparties to certain hedging obligations (including the obligations under
the Secured Trading Line) have been repaid in full.
Purpose
Each loan under the Acquisition Facility may be used for (i) the Acquisition and related costs
or (ii) general corporate purposes of the Restricted Group up to an aggregate limit of
£75 million.
Availability and maturity
The Acquisition Facility is available to be drawn for the purposes of the Acquisition and
related costs up until the earliest of the first utilisation date of the Acquisition Facility, the
Long Stop Date and the date falling eight months after 13 October 2018.
The Acquisition Facility is available to be drawn for general corporate purposes up until the
earlier of the date falling one month prior to the maturity date of the Acquisition Facility and
the first date on which any member of the Restricted Group receives the proceeds of any
equity raise, debt capital markets issuance or loan financing which are required to be applied
to prepay the Acquisition Facility, as described below.
The Acquisition Facility will mature on the date falling twelve months from the date of the first
utilisation of the Acquisition Facility, with an option for Drax Corporate to extend for a further
seven months.
Prepayment / cancellation
The Acquisition Facility Agreement contains provisions for voluntary prepayment, mandatory
prepayment (on the occurrence of certain events including change of control, illegality and
sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Restricted Group) and cancellation. The
Acquisition Facility Agreement provides for mandatory prepayment of net proceeds arising
from any equity raise, debt capital markets issuance or loan financing by any member of the
Restricted Group (except as specifically provided for) and makes provision for mandatory
prepayment for disposals (over specified thresholds and subject to certain conditions) and in
respect of recovery claims made against the Seller.
64
The Acquisition Facility Agreement also contains customary provisions for the prepayment
and cancellation of a particular lender’s commitments in the case of a defaulting lender,
additional payments being charged for tax reasons or increased costs.
Interest
Interest is payable under the Acquisition Facility at a rate of LIBOR plus the applicable
margin. The margin will step up after three, six, twelve and seventeen months following the
first date of utilisation of the Acquisition Facility, and ranges from a minimum of 0.75 per
cent. per annum to a possible maximum of 2.75 per cent. per annum.
Financial covenants
The Acquisition Facility Agreement does not contain any financial covenants.
Representations, covenants and events of default
The Acquisition Facility Agreement contains negative covenants, affirmative covenants,
representations and events of default that are substantially similar to those in the Senior
Facilities Agreement, as described below, save that (i) there are no such representations,
covenants or events of default relating to the Secured Trading Line and (ii) there is no
negative covenant in respect of disposals of assets to non-obligor subsidiaries and no
affirmative covenant in relation to guarantor coverage, but instead there is an affirmative
covenant requiring any guarantors under the Senior Facilities Agreement, the 2022 Notes
Indenture or the 2025 Notes Indenture to guarantee the Acquisition Facility, subject to
certain exceptions.
Governing law
The Acquisition Facility Agreement is governed by and construed and enforced in
accordance with English law, although the incurrence covenants contained therein, which
largely replicate the relevant covenants from the 2022 Notes, are interpreted in accordance
with the laws of the State of New York.
(C) Senior Facilities Agreement
Drax Power, as borrower, entered into a revolving credit facility agreement on 20 December
2012 between, among others, Drax Power, Barclays Bank PLC as facility agent and Drax
Corporate, which was amended and restated pursuant to an amendment and restatement
agreement on 21 April 2017, with effect from 5 May 2017. The Senior Facilities Agreement
comprises a £315 million committed multicurrency working capital and ancillary facility,
including, without limitation, a letter of credit facility (the “Revolving Facility”) and a
£35 million term facility (the “Term Loan”) (the Revolving Facility and the Term Loan
together, the “Senior Facilities”). The Revolving Facility can be drawn in pound sterling,
euro or US dollars. The Term Loan was fully drawn on 5 May 2017.
Borrowers and guarantors
The original borrower under the Senior Facilities Agreement is Drax Corporate. The Senior
Facilities Agreement provides for the flexibility of acceding (and subsequently resigning)
subsidiaries of Drax Group Holdings incorporated in the UK or in the US (subject to certain
customary conditions) as additional borrowers. The Senior Facilities are guaranteed on a
joint and several basis by Drax Group Holdings and each of the Guarantors.
Security
The finance parties under the Senior Facilities Agreement have the benefit of the Common
Security. The Senior Facilities may be secured by further security interests from time to time
subject to certain agreed security principles set out in the Senior Facilities Agreement.
65
The Senior Facilities Agreement is subject to the provisions of the Intercreditor Agreement.
Under the terms of the Intercreditor Agreement, the proceeds from any distressed disposal
and from any enforcement of the Common Security will be applied to repayment of the
Senior Facilities and certain hedging obligations (including obligations under the Secured
Trading Line) in priority to repayment of the 2022 Notes, the 2025 Notes and the Acquisition
Facility.
Purpose
Each loan under the Revolving Facility may be used: (i) to provide cash collateral in favour of
certain permitted counterparties; (ii) to provide cash cover in favour of an issuing bank of a
letter of credit or in respect of an ancillary facility under the Senior Facilities Agreement; and
(iii) for the other general corporate purposes of the Restricted Group, including, but not
limited to, financing working capital requirements. There is a separate sub-limit of
£200 million on cash drawings for general corporate purposes under limb (iii) above.
Availability and maturity
The Revolving Facility is available to be drawn until one month prior to the final maturity date
and letters of credit may be issued up until the final maturity date (in each case, as such may
be extended). The Revolving Facility has an initial maturity date of 30 April 2021, with an
option to extend to 30 April 2022. The Term Loan has a maturity date of 31 March 2022.
The Revolving Facility may be utilised by way of letter of credit, reducing the amount
available for cash drawings under the Revolving Facility by an amount equivalent to the
letters of credit issued.
Prepayment / cancellation
The Senior Facilities Agreement contains customary provisions for the prepayment and
cancellation of a particular lender’s commitments in the case of a defaulting lender,
additional payments being charged for tax reasons or increased costs.
Subject to certain conditions, the borrowers under the Revolving Facility may voluntarily
prepay their utilisations or permanently cancel all or part of the available commitments under
the Revolving Facility. Amounts voluntarily prepaid may be re-borrowed during the
availability period applicable to the Revolving Facility. Subject to certain conditions, the
borrower of the Term Loan may voluntarily prepay all or part of the Term Loan at an amount
equal to the principal amount so prepaid multiplied by the index ratio as at the relevant
prepayment date, plus a make-whole amount (as described below).
Subject to certain thresholds and other qualifications, there are mandatory prepayments
required to be made in respect of the Senior Facilities upon the occurrence of certain events
such as change of control, illegality and sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the
Restricted Group. The Senior Facilities Agreement also contains provisions for mandatory
prepayment on certain purchases or redemptions of the 2022 Notes. There is also a
mandatory prepayment required to be made in respect of the Term Loan in the event that the
applicable index ceases to be published and no appropriate successor index can be
determined. The applicable make-whole amount, as described further below, is payable in
respect of prepayments under the Term Loan.
The applicable make-whole amount in respect of prepayments under the Term Loan is
calculated by reference to the excess, if any, of the discounted value of the remaining
scheduled payments of principal and interest under the Term Loan with respect to the
principal amount prepaid, over the amount of such principal prepaid. The applicable discount
factor is calculated by reference to the applicable percentage (which is determined by
reference to the nature of the relevant prepayment) plus the yield to maturity of the specified
reference gilt.
Interest
Interest is payable under the Revolving Facility at a rate of LIBOR or, in the case of loans in
euro, EURIBOR (in each case subject to a zero floor) plus the applicable margin. Save for in
66
circumstances where an event of default has occurred and is continuing or the borrower has
failed to notify the facility agent of a change in rating, the applicable margin is determined by
reference to a ratings matrix, ranging from a maximum of 2.75 per cent. where the rating of
the debt incurred under the Revolving Facility is BB-/Ba3 or lower to a minimum of 1.25 per
cent. where such rating is BBB/Baa2 or higher.
Interest is payable under the Term Loan at a rate calculated by multiplying a fixed rate of
4.158 per cent. per annum by the index ratio applicable to the relevant interest payment date
multiplied by the outstanding principal amount of the Term Loan. The relevant index for
calculation of the index ratio is the Non-revised Retail Price Index All Items in the United
Kingdom as published by the Office for National Statistics.
Financial covenants
The Senior Facilities Agreement contains a financial covenant requiring the Restricted
Group’s consolidated EBITDA for the prior twelve-month period to be no less than
£170 million as at any applicable semi-annual testing date. This covenant will be tested only
where either: (i) drawings of cash within the £200 million sub-limit on cash drawings for
general corporate purposes described above are 25 per cent. or more of the total
commitments as at the relevant semi-annual testing date; or (ii) any Term Loan is
outstanding.
Representations, covenants and events of default
The Senior Facilities Agreement contains certain negative covenants that are substantially
similar to those in the 2022 Notes Indenture governing the 2022 Notes, as described below.
The Senior Facilities Agreement also contains customary negative covenants, subject to
certain agreed exceptions, including, but not limited to, (i) restrictions on change of business;
(ii) centre of main interests; (iii) share capital; (iv) purchase or redemption of the 2022 Notes;
(v) activities of Drax Group Holdings; (vi) incurrence of certain indebtedness by non-obligor
subsidiaries; (vii) certain disposals of assets to non-obligor subsidiaries; (viii) changes to
Drax’s year end; and (ix) parameters of the Secured Trade Line.
The Senior Facilities Agreement also requires each obligor to observe certain affirmative
covenants subject to materiality and other customary and agreed exceptions. These
affirmative covenants include, but are not limited to, covenants related to: (i) compliance with
relevant laws rules and regulations (including environmental, sanctions and anti-corruption);
(ii) payment of taxes; (iii) the delivery of certain financial statements; (iv) information
reporting obligations in respect of the Secured Trading Line; (v) rating; (vi) notice of default
and material litigation; (vii) right to request information relating to the Drax Group’s financial
condition; (viii) insurance; (ix) maintenance of assets; and (x) compliance with and
maintenance of material authorisations. There is also an affirmative covenant in relation to
guarantor coverage (by reference to 85 per cent. of the Restricted Group’s consolidated
EBITDA and consolidated total assets), subject to certain exceptions. The Senior Facilities
Agreement also contains representations that are customary for debt facilities of this nature.
The Senior Facilities Agreement contains customary events of default (subject in certain
cases to agreed thresholds, grace periods and qualifications), including non-payment,
breach
of
other
obligations,
misrepresentation,
cross-default,
insolvency,
insolvency
proceedings, creditors’ process, cessation of business, effectiveness of finance documents,
ownership of obligors and proceedings. In addition to these customary events of default, the
Senior Facilities Agreement contains events of default reflective of the nature of the Drax
Group’s business, relating to the generation licence granted to Drax Power pursuant to the
Electricity Act 1989, nationalisation, and the Secured Trading Line. At any time after the
occurrence of an event of default, the facility agent may, and on the instruction of majority
lenders must, cancel all or any part of the total commitments and/or declare that amounts
outstanding are immediately due and payable and/or payable on demand. In addition, after
the occurrence of an event of default following a breach of the financial covenant described
above, the lenders under the Term Loan and the majority lenders under the Revolving
Facility each have a separate right (in respect of the Term Loan and the Revolving Facility,
respectively) to cancel all or any part of the commitments and/or declare that amounts
outstanding are immediately due and payable and/or payable on demand.
67
Governing law
The Senior Facilities Agreement is governed by and construed and enforced in accordance
with English law, although the incurrence covenants contained therein, which largely
replicate the relevant covenants from the 2022 Notes, are interpreted in accordance with the
laws of the State of New York.
(D) 2022 Notes Indenture
On 5 May 2017, Drax Finco issued £350 million aggregate principal amount of 4.250 per
cent. Senior Secured Notes due 2022 under an indenture dated as of 5 May 2017, as
amended and restated from time to time.
The 2022 Notes will mature on 1 May 2022. The 2022 Notes were issued in minimum
denominations of £100,000 and in integral multiples of £1,000 in excess thereof. The 2022
Notes are listed on the Official List of the Luxembourg Stock Exchange and admitted to
trading on the Euro MTF Market thereof.
Guarantees and security
The 2022 Notes are guaranteed on a joint and several basis by Drax Group Holdings, Drax
Corporate and each of the Guarantors (other than Drax Finco).
The 2022 Notes and the guarantees thereof are secured by the Common Security. The 2022
Notes may be secured by further security interests from time to time subject to certain
agreed security principles set out in the Senior Facilities Agreement.
The 2022 Notes are subject to the provisions of the Intercreditor Agreement. Under the
terms of the Intercreditor Agreement, in the event of an enforcement of the Common
Security, the holders of the 2022 Notes will receive proceeds from the enforcement of the
Common Security or from certain distressed disposals of the Common Security pari passu
with the holders of the 2025 Notes and the lenders under the Acquisition Facility Agreement
and only after certain other creditors, including the lenders under the Senior Facilities
Agreement and counterparties to certain hedging obligations (including the obligations under
the Secured Trading Line) have been repaid in full.
Prepayments and redemption
At any time prior to 1 May 2019, Drax Finco may on any one or more occasions redeem up
to 40 per cent. of the original principal amount of the 2022 Notes, subject to the terms of, and
at the redemption prices specified in, the 2022 Notes Indenture, plus accrued and unpaid
interest and additional tax amounts to the redemption date, with the proceeds of an equity
offering provided that: (i) at least 60 per cent. of the original principal amount of the 2022
Notes issued under the 2022 Notes Indenture remains outstanding after each such
redemption, and (ii) the redemption occurs within 180 days after the closing of such equity
offering.
At any time prior to 1 May 2019, Drax Finco may redeem all or, from time to time, part of the
2022 Notes, subject to the terms of the 2022 Notes Indenture, and at a redemption price
equal to 100 per cent. of the principal amount of the 2022 Notes, plus the applicable
premium plus accrued and unpaid interest and additional tax amounts to the redemption
date.
On and after 1 May 2019, Drax Finco may redeem all or, from time to time, part of the 2022
Notes, subject to the terms of, and at the redemption prices specified in, the 2022 Notes
Indenture, plus accrued and unpaid interest and additional tax amounts to the redemption
date.
In connection with any tender offer for, or other offer to purchase, all of the 2022 Notes, in
the event that holders of not less than 90 per cent. of the aggregate principal amount of the
outstanding 2022 Notes validly tender and do not validly withdraw such 2022 Notes in such
tender offer or offer to purchase and Drax Finco or a third party making such tender offer or
offer to purchase all the 2022 Notes held by such holders, within 60 days of such purchase,
Drax Finco will have the right, upon not less than 10 and no more than 60 days’ prior notice,
68
to redeem all (but not less than all) the 2022 Notes of the same series that remain
outstanding following such purchase at a redemption price equal to the highest price
(excluding any early tender premium or similar payment) paid to each other holder in such
tender offer or offer to purchase, plus, to the extent not included in the tender offer or offer to
purchase payment, accrued and unpaid interest to the date of such redemption.
Upon the occurrence of certain events constituting a change of control, Drax Finco may be
required to make an offer to repurchase the 2022 Notes at a redemption price equal to
101 per cent. of the principal amount of the 2022 Notes repurchased, plus accrued and
unpaid interest and additional tax amounts to the date of purchase.
Drax Finco may redeem the 2022 Notes in whole, but not in part, at any time in certain
circumstances if Drax Finco determines in good faith that, as a result of any change in tax
law in any applicable tax jurisdiction, Drax Finco would become obligated to pay additional
amounts on payments on the 2022 Notes.
Subject to the provisions of the Intercreditor Agreement, Drax Finco may repurchase 2022
Notes at any time and from time to time in the open market or otherwise.
Interest
Interest on the 2022 Notes accrues at a rate of 4.250 per cent. per annum and is payable in
cash semi-annually in arrear on 1 May and 1 November of each year.
Covenants and events of default
The 2022 Notes Indenture contains a number of negative covenants that, among other
things, restrict, subject to certain exceptions, the ability of any member of the Restricted
Group to: (i) incur or guarantee additional indebtedness, (ii) make investments or other
restricted payments, (iii) pay dividends or make other distributions or purchase or redeem
stock, (iv) enter into agreements that restrict the Restricted Group’s ability to pay dividends,
(v) transfer or sell assets, (vi) engage in transactions with affiliates, (vii) create or permit to
exist liens on assets to secure indebtedness, and (viii) impair or consolidate with or into
another company. Each of these covenants is subject to significant exceptions and
qualifications.
In addition, the 2022 Notes Indenture imposes certain requirements as to future subsidiary
guarantors, including an affirmative covenant in relation to guarantor coverage (by reference
to 80 per cent. of the Restricted Group’s consolidated EBITDA and consolidated total
assets), subject to certain exceptions, and contains certain customary events of default.
Governing law
The 2022 Notes Indenture and the 2022 Notes, and the rights and duties of the parties
thereunder, are governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New
York.
(E) 2025 Notes Indenture
On 26 April 2018, Drax Finco issued US$300 million aggregate principal amount of 6.625 per
cent. Senior Secured Notes due 2025 under an indenture dated as of 26 April 2018, as
amended and restated from time to time.
The 2025 Notes will mature on 1 November 2025. The 2025 Notes were issued in minimum
denominations of US$200,000 and in integral multiples of US$1,000 in excess thereof. The
2025 Notes are listed on the Official List of the Luxembourg Stock Exchange and admitted to
trading on the Euro MTF Market thereof.
Guarantees and security
The 2025 Notes are guaranteed on a joint and several basis by Drax Group Holdings, Drax
Corporate and each of the Guarantors (other than Drax Finco).
69
The 2025 Notes and the guarantees thereof are secured by the Common Security. The 2025
Notes may be secured by further security interests from time to time subject to certain
agreed security principles set out in the Senior Facilities Agreement.
The 2025 Notes are subject to the provisions of the Intercreditor Agreement. Under the
terms of the Intercreditor Agreement, in the event of an enforcement of the Common
Security, the holders of the 2025 Notes will receive proceeds from the enforcement of the
Common Security or from certain distressed disposals of the Common Security pari passu
with the holders of the 2025 Notes and the lenders under the Acquisition Facility Agreement
and only after certain other creditors, including the lenders under the Senior Facilities
Agreement and counterparties to certain hedging obligations (including the obligations under
the Secured Trading Line) have been repaid in full.
Prepayments and redemption
At any time prior to 1 May 2021, Drax Finco may on any one or more occasions redeem up
to 40 per cent. of the original principal amount of the 2025 Notes, subject to the terms of, and
at the redemption prices specified in, the 2025 Notes Indenture, plus accrued and unpaid
interest and additional tax amounts to the redemption date, with the proceeds of an equity
offering provided that: (i) at least 50 per cent. of the original principal amount of the 2025
Notes issued under the 2025 Notes Indenture remains outstanding after each such
redemption, and (ii) the redemption occurs within 180 days after the closing of such equity
offering.
At any time prior to 1 May 2021, Drax Finco may redeem all or, from time to time, part of the
2025 Notes, subject to the terms of the 2025 Notes Indenture, and at a redemption price
equal to 100 per cent. of the principal amount of the 2025 Notes, plus the applicable
premium plus accrued and unpaid interest and additional tax amounts to the redemption
date.
On and after 1 May 2021, Drax Finco may redeem all or, from time to time, part of the 2025
Notes, subject to the terms of, and at the redemption prices specified in, the 2025 Notes
Indenture, plus accrued and unpaid interest and additional tax amounts to the redemption
date.
In connection with any tender offer for, or other offer to purchase, all of the 2025 Notes, in
the event that holders of not less than 90 per cent. of the aggregate principal amount of the
outstanding 2025 Notes validly tender and do not validly withdraw such 2025 Notes in such
tender offer or offer to purchase and Drax Finco or a third party making such tender offer or
offer to purchase all the 2025 Notes held by such holders, within 60 days of such purchase,
Drax Finco will have the right, upon not less than 10 and no more than 60 days’ prior notice,
to redeem all (but not less than all) the 2025 Notes of the same series that remain
outstanding following such purchase at a redemption price equal to the highest price
(excluding any early tender premium or similar payment) paid to each other holder in such
tender offer or offer to purchase, plus, to the extent not included in the tender offer or offer to
purchase payment, accrued and unpaid interest to the date of such redemption.
Upon the occurrence of certain events constituting a change of control, Drax Finco may be
required to make an offer to repurchase the 2025 Notes at a redemption price equal to
101 per cent. of the principal amount of the 2025 Notes repurchased, plus accrued and
unpaid interest and additional tax amounts to the date of purchase.
Drax Finco may redeem the 2025 Notes in whole, but not in part, at any time in certain
circumstances if Drax Finco determines in good faith that, as a result of any change in tax
law in any applicable tax jurisdiction, Drax Finco would become obligated to pay additional
amounts on payments on the 2025 Notes.
Subject to the provisions of the Intercreditor Agreement, Drax Finco may repurchase 2025
Notes at any time and from time to time in the open market or otherwise.
Interest
Interest on the 2025 Notes accrues at a rate of 6.625 per cent. per annum and is payable in
cash semi-annually in arrear on 1 May and 1 November of each year.
70
Covenants and events of default
The 2025 Notes Indenture contains a number of negative covenants that, among other
things, restrict, subject to certain exceptions, the ability of any member of the Restricted
Group to: (i) incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; (ii) make investments or other
restricted payments; (iii) pay dividends or make other distributions or purchase or redeem
stock; (iv) enter into agreements that restrict the Restricted Group’s ability to pay dividends;
(v) transfer or sell assets; (vi) engage in transactions with affiliates; (vii) create or permit to
exist liens on assets to secure indebtedness; and (viii) impair or consolidate with or into
another company. Each of these covenants is subject to significant exceptions and
qualifications. In addition, the 2025 Notes Indenture contains certain customary events of
default.
Governing law
The 2025 Notes Indenture and the 2025 Notes, and the rights and duties of the parties
thereunder, are governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New
York.
(F) Investment contract relating to the Drax 3rd Conversion Unit (Unit 1)
On 9 May 2014, Drax Power (a member of the Drax Group) entered into the Investment
Contract, a contract relating to Unit 1, its third coal-to-biomass conversion unit, with the
Secretary of State for Energy and Climate Change. Such investment contracts were
introduced by the UK Government to support the development of low-carbon electricity and
to encourage the renewables sector.
The Investment Contract works by stabilising revenues attributed to Drax Power’s Unit 1 at a
fixed price level known as the “strike price”. Unit 1 will receive revenue from selling electricity
into the market as usual. However, when the market reference price (as specified in the
Investment Contract) is below the strike price, Drax Power will receive a payment to cover
the difference. Conversely, if the market reference price is above the strike price, Drax
Power will be required to make a payment for the difference. The effect of the Investment
Contract is therefore to remove the uncertainty of Drax Power’s revenue stream in relation to
Unit 1 until 31 March 2027 when the term of the Investment Contract expires.
The Investment Contract is subject to the Investment Contract Standard Terms and
Conditions dated 9 May 2014 which require Drax Power to meet certain requirements and
milestones and provide for early termination of the Investment Contract in the event that
Drax Power is unable to meet certain of its obligations under the Investment Contract.
(G) Trading
Drax Power has entered into ISDA agreements (the “STL Master Agreements”) with a
number of financial institutions (the “STL Counterparties”), under which Drax Power can
trade UK power, dark green spreads and gas on a senior secured basis without the
requirement for Drax Power to post collateral. This arrangement is known as the Secured
Trading Line. Certain minimum rating requirements are imposed on the STL Counterparties
under the ISDA agreements, and STL Counterparties that fail to meet such requirements
shall post collateral to Drax Power to the extent of any exposure Drax Power faces on
transactions with that STL Counterparty.
The tradable volumes and maximum exposure permitted under the Secured Trading Line are
set on a seasonal basis, based upon parameters set out in the Senior Facilities Agreement.
Trading is limited at any time to five consecutive six-monthly seasons, commencing with
winter 2017/18 and subject to extension by Drax Power at its discretion at the end of each
season, within the parameters of the Senior Facilities Agreement. Under the terms of the
Senior Facilities Agreement, the potential future exposure under the Secured Trading Line
for each combination of tradable products must be less than £200 million as determined on a
seasonal basis, with the maximum seasonal trading volume being up to 600MW (or
equivalent). The £200 million cap, for each combination of tradable products, remains in
effect to control the voting rights of the STL Counterparties only, and does not limit their
71
super senior secured claims under the Secured Trading Line, which will be determined in
accordance with the terms of the underlying Secured Trading Line documents and which are
uncapped.
Potential future exposure under the Secured Trading Line is calculated on the basis of the
net aggregate mark-to-market exposure of all transactions entered into under the Secured
Trading Line and the net aggregate forecast mark-to-market exposure as if the maximum
seasonal trading volume were to be traded for each of the relevant seasons. However, the
actual day-to-day level of exposure will fluctuate and may cross the £200 million threshold
should the forecast exposure fall short of actual levels.
The STL Counterparties’ right to terminate all or any part of a transaction entered into with
Drax Power under the relevant STL Master Agreement is prescribed by the Intercreditor
Agreement and the Senior Facilities Agreement. These extend beyond the usual termination
rights under an ISDA agreement, for instance the right to terminate if Drax Power enters into
a transaction under the STL Master Agreement which results in the maximum seasonal
trading volume threshold being exceeded.
The STL Counterparties benefit from the Common Security, as described above.
In addition, the Drax Group has outstanding currency rate hedging arrangements and has
the ability to enter into additional currency, interest rate and inflation rate hedging
arrangements on a secured basis, with the counterparties to such hedging arrangements
also benefiting from the Common Security as referred to above.
These arrangements are in addition to any commodities and/or currency and interest rate
trading that the Drax Group undertakes on an unsecured and/or title transfer collateral basis.
(H) Haven Power MRTSA
Haven Power Limited (“Haven Power”) has entered into a master receivables and transfer
and servicing agreement (“Haven Power MRTSA”), under which Haven Power as seller and
servicer sells trade receivables to Ester Finance Titrisation as purchaser, with Crédit Agricole
Corporate and Investment Bank as the arranger and calculation agent and Eurotitrisation as
the programme agent.
Drax Group Holdings guarantees Haven Power’s obligations under the Haven Power
MRTSA.
(I)
OCGT developments
On 5 December 2016, Drax Developments entered into an agreement with Watt Power
Limited, a developer of OCGT assets, to acquire four companies each holding a 299MW
OCGT development project. OCGTs can be used by Drax to provide flexible support to the
electricity system to make up any shortfall in generation.
Two of these projects are in an advanced stage of development and participated in the 2016
and February 2018 T-4 Capacity Market auctions, although exited above the clearing price
on both occasions. Both projects have prequalified for the February 2019 T-4 Capacity
Market auction.
The other two projects are currently in the planning and consenting phase of development
and are targeting participation in future T-4 Capacity Market auctions.
The initial purchase price under the agreement for all four companies was £18.5 million, with
the total consideration payable dependent on the clearing price in future Capacity Market
auctions.
(J)
Opus Acquisition Agreement
Details of the terms of the acquisition agreement relating to the acquisition by Drax of Opus
Energy Group Limited are set out in Part IV (Principal Terms of the Acquisition) of the Opus
Circular, which Part is incorporated by reference into this Circular.
72
7.2
ScottishPower Generation Group
The following contracts (not being contracts entered into in the ordinary course of business) have
either: (i) been entered into by SPGEN or another member of the ScottishPower Generation
Group within the period of two years immediately preceding the date of this Circular and are or
may be material; or (ii) been entered into by SPGEN or another member of the ScottishPower
Generation Group which contain any provisions under which any member of the ScottishPower
Generation Group has any obligation or entitlement which is, or may be, material as at the date of
this Circular:
(A) SPUK plc Guarantee
On 4 November 1997, Scottish Power UK plc entered into a trust deed with The Law
Debenture Trust Corporation plc in connection with a debt issuance programme under which
Scottish Power UK plc would issue certain debt securities to various investors (the “Notes”).
A supplemental trust deed (the “SPUK plc Guarantee”) was subsequently entered into by
Scottish Power UK plc, as issuer of the Notes (the “Issuer”), The Law Debenture Trust
Corporation plc, as trustee on behalf of the holders of the Notes (the “Trustee”), and SP
Distribution Limited, SP Transmission Limited and SPGEN (each a “ SPUK plc Guarantor”
and together the “SPUK plc Guarantors”). Pursuant to the SPUK plc Guarantee, SPGEN
together with the other SPUK plc Guarantors, unconditionally and irrevocably guaranteed, on
a joint and several basis, the payment obligations of the Issuer under the Notes. As at the
date of signing the Acquisition Agreement, the total outstanding debt owed by Scottish
Power UK plc was approximately £1.1 billion.
Under the terms of the Acquisition Agreement, the Seller is under an obligation, at its own
cost, to secure the release or discharge of SPGEN from the SPUK plc Guarantee with effect
on or prior to Completion and to provide written evidence of the same to Drax. Prior to such
release or discharge, the Seller has also undertaken to indemnify Drax in relation to any
liabilities connected with or arising out of the SPUK plc Guarantee.
(B) Daldowie & Shieldhall PFI Agreement
On 6 December 1999, the West of Scotland Water Authority (succeeded by Scottish Water)
and SMW entered into an agreement pursuant to which SMW agreed to arrange for the
design, construction, financing and ongoing operation of the sludge transfer and treatment
facilities at Daldowie and Shieldhall (the “Daldowie & Shieldhall PFI Agreement”).
Construction of the facilities was completed in November 2002.
Term & services
The current term of the Daldowie & Shieldhall PFI Agreement expires in April 2026. During
the remainder of the current term, SMW is required to perform certain services in relation to
the facilities, including sludge receipt, sludge treatment, sludge disposal, waste disposal and
the operation and maintenance of the facilities.
Negative covenants
SMW is subject to a number of negative covenants which, subject to certain exceptions,
include a prohibition on SMW, without the prior consent of Scottish Water, incurring any
indebtedness or creating any security interest over any part of its assets or business
undertaking.
Termination
Scottish Water may terminate the Daldowie & Shieldhall PFI Agreement in the event of
certain defaults by SMW specified under the agreement (including, for example, insolvency
or material unremedied breach of the agreement). Scottish Water may also terminate the
Daldowie & Shieldhall PFI Agreement at any time by providing not less than six months’
notice to SMW. In the event of such termination on notice, Scottish Water is obligated to pay
SMW compensation in accordance with calculation mechanics provided under the terms of
the Daldowie & Shieldhall PFI Agreement.
73
SMW may terminate the Daldowie & Shieldhall PFI Agreement in the event of certain
defaults by Scottish Water specified under the agreement (including, for example, insolvency
or material unremedied breach of the agreement).
Handover
Upon the expiry of the Daldowie & Shieldhall PFI Agreement (whether at the end of its term
or due to an earlier termination by either party, including Scottish Water’s right to terminate
on six months’ notice), Scottish Water may require SMW to assign its interests in the
facilities at Daldowie and/or Shieldhall to Scottish Water, on such terms as Scottish Water
reasonably requires. If Scottish Water makes this election, Scottish Water is obligated to pay
SMW compensation in accordance with calculation mechanics provided under the terms of
the Daldowie & Shieldhall PFI Agreement. Additionally, if Scottish Water makes such an
election, SMW will also be required to sell, at market value, all equipment and materials
owned by SMW which are required in the performance of SMW’s services at the relevant
facilities.
Step-in rights of Scottish Water
Scottish Water has step-in rights under the Daldowie & Shieldhall PFI Agreement which may
be triggered in certain circumstances, including on the occurrence of a breach by SMW of an
obligation under the Daldowie & Shieldhall PFI Agreement which does or is likely to:
(i) create an immediate and serious threat to health and safety, the environment or a serious
nuisance; (ii) result in a material interruption to the provision of a material part of the services
provided under the agreement; or (iii) cause Scottish Water to breach its statutory
obligations.
Super Profits
If, on the expiry of the term or the termination of the Daldowie & Shieldhall PFI Agreement or
the transfer of the share capital of SMW, the post-tax cash flows earned by SMW during the
term of the Daldowie & Shieldhall PFI Agreement would exceed certain specified limits,
SMW will be obligated to pay Scottish Water 50 per cent. of the amount by which the total
amount of those cash flows exceeds the specified limits (such excess constituting “Super
Profits”). SMW is required during the term of the Daldowie & Shieldhall PFI Agreement to
monitor on an annual basis the extent to which any Super Profits may become payable. Not
less than 24 months prior to the expected expiry of the term of the agreement, SMW is
obliged to notify Scottish Water of its anticipated liability in respect of Super Profits and to
provide credit support in respect of such payment obligations in the form of a parent
company guarantee, a bank bond or an escrow account.
8.
Litigation
8.1
Drax
There are no, nor have there been any, governmental, legal or arbitration proceedings (nor is
Drax aware of any such proceedings being pending or threatened by or against any member of
the Drax Group) which may have, or during the last twelve months prior to the date of this
Circular have had, a significant effect on the financial position or profitability of the Drax Group.
8.2
ScottishPower Generation Group
Except as provided below, there are no, nor have there been any, governmental, legal or
arbitration proceedings (nor are the Directors or the Company aware of any such proceedings
being pending or threatened by or against any member of the ScottishPower Generation Group)
which may have, or during the last 12 months prior to the date of this Circular have had, a
significant effect on the financial position or profitability of the ScottishPower Generation Group.
On 15 November 2018, the General Court of the European Union issued the Capacity Market
Ruling. The Capacity Market Ruling imposed a “standstill period” while the European Commission
completes a further State aid investigation into the Capacity Market. Payments to generators
scheduled under existing capacity agreements and the holding of future capacity auctions have
been suspended.
74
Contracted capacity payments make up a significant proportion of the earnings of the
ScottishPower Generation Group, with many of the assets in the Portfolio benefitting from the
right to receive such payments under existing capacity agreements. For the period from 1
January 2019 to 30 September 2022, the Cruachan pumped storage hydro asset has contracted
capacity payments of £29 million, the Galloway run-of-river hydro assets have contracted
capacity payments of £5 million, and the Damhead Creek, Rye House, Shoreham and Blackburn
CCGT assets have contracted capacity payments of £122 million in aggregate.
The Directors note the UK Government’s statement in response to the Capacity Market Ruling
that it is working closely with the European Commission to aid their investigation and to seek a
timely State aid re-approval decision for the Capacity Market. The UK Government has also
confirmed that the Capacity Market Ruling does not change its belief that Capacity Market
auctions are the most appropriate way to deliver secure electricity supplies at the lowest cost.
The UK Government has also noted that the Capacity Market Ruling was decided on procedural
grounds and did not constitute a direct challenge to the design of the Capacity Market
mechanism itself.4
National Grid has confirmed that the T-4 and T-1 auctions for the years 2022/23 and 2019/20,
which were scheduled for February 2019 and January 2019 respectively, have been postponed
in light of the “standstill period”. National Grid has advised capacity agreement holders that the
UK Government is doing everything in its power to re-obtain State aid approval as soon as
possible, and that the UK Government intends to seek a separate State aid approval to run a
one-off “replacement” T-1 Auction in 2019. The Directors note that National Grid has also
confirmed that it intends to run the postponed T-4 for 2022/23 as a T-3 Auction in the 2019
auction round, subject to the European Commission completing its formal investigation and
providing State aid approval for the Capacity Market.5
The UK Government has confirmed it is working to reinstate the full Capacity Market regime and
is in discussions with the European Commission regarding the swiftest means of doing so.
Based on the information available to them and legal advice they have received, the Directors
believe the most likely outcome is that the European Commission will re-approve the existing
Capacity Market in its current form or a broadly similar form. The Directors recognise there is
some uncertainty whether, if the Capacity Market is reinstated in its current form, the contracted
capacity payments for the Capacity Market year 2018/2019 which are currently suspended will be
paid by the UK Government. To mitigate the risk that these payments are not received for the
2018/2019 Capacity Market year, Drax has agreed with Iberdrola S.A. certain amendments to the
Acquisition Agreement signed on 16 October 2018 pursuant to the Acquisition Agreement
Amendment Deed. The Directors believe that the arrangements provided in the amended
Acquisition Agreement mitigate in economic terms the majority of the risk that those suspended
capacity payments will not be paid.
The Directors believe that the most likely outcome after 2019 is that existing capacity agreements
for the period to 2022 will be honoured but recognise that a range of other outcomes is possible,
from re-running the auctions for delivery years 2019/2020, 2020/2021 and 2021/2022 to a
significant revision of the structure of the Capacity Market. In each case, the exact impact of
these changes cannot be predicted. However, the Directors note the UK Government’s
commitment to ensuring there is a capacity market in some form.
9.
Working capital
Drax is of the opinion that, taking into account the Acquisition Facility and other facilities available
to the Enlarged Group, the Enlarged Group has sufficient working capital available to it for its
present requirements, that is, for at least the next 12 months from the date of publication of this
Circular.
4
The UK Government’s press release can be found at https://www.gov.uk/government/collections/electricity-market-reform-
capacity-market.
5
The published advice of National Grid in relation to the Capacity Market Ruling can be found at
https://www.emrdeliverybody.com/cm/home.aspx and
https://www.emrdeliverybody.com/Prequalification/
Advice%20for%20capacity%20agreement%20holders%20and%20capacity%20market%20applicants%20v1.1.pdf.
75
10.
Consents
J.P. Morgan Cazenove has given, and has not withdrawn, its consent to the inclusion in this
Circular of the references to its name in the form and context in which they are included.
Deloitte LLP is registered to carry out audit work in the UK and Ireland by the Institute of
Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and has given, and not withdrawn, its written
consent to the inclusion of its report on historical financial information in Part V (Historical
Financial Information relating to the ScottishPower Generation Group) and its report on the
unaudited pro forma financial information in Part VI (Unaudited Pro Forma Financial Information
relating to the Enlarged Group), in the form and context in which they are included.
11.
Significant change
11.1 Drax
There has been no significant change in the financial or trading position of the Drax Group since
30 June 2018, being the date of the last financial period for which financial information has been
published.
11.2 ScottishPower Generation Group
Except as provided below, there has been no significant change in the financial or trading
position of the ScottishPower Generation Group since 31 December 2017, being the date to
which the financial information on the ScottishPower Generation Group, presented in Part V
(Historical Financial Information relating to the ScottishPower Generation Group), has been
prepared.
As disclosed in paragraph 6.2 of Part I (Letter from the Chairman of Drax Group plc), pursuant to
the Capacity Market Ruling the Portfolio’s contracted capacity payments for the 1 October 2018
to 31 December 2018 period have been suspended. These are expected to be around
£12.7 million gross.
12.
Related party transactions
Details of related party transactions (which for these purposes are those set out in the standards
adopted according to Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002), which Drax has entered into:
(A) during the financial year ended 31 December 2015 are disclosed in accordance with the
respective standard adopted according to Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 in note 8.4 on
page 145 of Drax’s 2015 Annual Report and Accounts;
(B) during the financial year ended 31 December 2016 are disclosed in accordance with the
respective standard adopted according to Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 in note 8.4 on
page 166 of Drax’s 2016 Annual Report and Accounts; and
(C) during the financial year ended 31 December 2017 are disclosed in accordance with the
respective standard adopted according to Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 in note 8.3 on
page 171 of Drax’s 2017 Annual Report and Accounts.
In respect of the period from 1 January 2018 to the date of this Circular, Drax’s only related party
transactions were the payment of salary and benefits to its Directors and Executive Committee
members.
13.
Source of financial information
Unless otherwise stated:
(A) financial information relating to Drax has been extracted without material adjustment from
Drax’s 2017 Annual Report and Accounts; and
(B) financial information relating to SPGEN has been extracted without material adjustment from
the historical financial information set out in Part V (Historical Financial Information relating
to the ScottishPower Generation Group) and the audited financial statements of SPGEN for
the years ended 2015, 2016 and 2017.
76
14.
Information incorporated by reference
Information from the following documents has been incorporated into this Circular by reference:
Documents containing
information incorporated
by reference
Paragraph of this Circular
which refers to the
document containing
information incorporated by
reference
Where the information can be accessed by
Shareholders
Drax’s 2015 Annual
Report and Accounts
Paragraphs 5, 12 and
13 of this Part VIII
www.drax.com/investors/results-
reports-agm
Drax’s 2016 Annual
Report and Accounts
Paragraph 12 of this
Part VIII
www.drax.com/investors/results-
reports-agm
Drax’s 2017 Annual
Report and Accounts
Paragraph 12 of this
Part VIII
www.drax.com/investors/results-
reports-agm
Opus Circular
Paragraph 7.1 of this
Part VIII
www.drax.com/wp-content/uploads/
2017/01/Proposed-
acquisition-by-Drax-
Group-plc-of-Opus-Energy-
Group-Limited-and-Notice-of-General-
Meeting.pdf
A copy of each of the documents listed above is available for inspection in accordance with
paragraph 15 below. The only part of the Opus Circular which is incorporated into this Circular is
Part IV (Principal Terms of the Acquisition) of the Opus Circular. Parts of the Opus Circular which
are not incorporated by reference are not relevant for the purposes of this Circular or are covered
elsewhere in this Circular.
15.
Documents available for inspection
Copies of the following documents will be available for inspection at the offices of Drax at Drax
Power Station, Selby, North Yorkshire YO8 8PH, United Kingdom and Slaughter and May at One
Bunhill Row, London EC1Y 8YY, United Kingdom during normal business hours on any weekday
(Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted) up to and including the date of the General
Meeting, and at the place of the General Meeting from 15 minutes prior to its commencement
until its conclusion:
(i)
the articles of association of Drax;
(ii)
Drax’s 2015 Annual Report and Accounts;
(iii) Drax’s 2016 Annual Report and Accounts;
(iv) Drax’s 2017 Annual Report and Accounts;
(v)
the Opus Circular;
(vi) the report of Deloitte set out in Part V (Historical Financial Information relating to the
ScottishPower Generation Group);
(vii) the report of Deloitte set out in Part VI (Unaudited Pro Forma Financial Information relating
to the Enlarged Group);
(viii) the Acquisition Agreement and the Acquisition Agreement Amendment Deed;
(ix) the consent letters of J.P. Morgan Cazenove and Deloitte referred to in paragraph 10 above;
(x)
this Circular; and
(xi) the Drax announcement dated 16 October 2018 in relation to the Acquisition.
5 December 2018
77
PART IX
DEFINITIONS
The following terms have the following meanings in this Circular:
“2018 Profit Forecast”
means the statement in relation to the Drax Group set out in
Part VII (Profit Forecasts);
“2019 Capacity Market Sensitivity
Profit Forecast”
means
the
statement
in
relation
to
the
ScottishPower
Generation Group set out in Part VII (Profit Forecasts)
“2019 Profit Forecast”
means
the
statement
in
relation
to
the
ScottishPower
Generation Group set out in Part VII (Profit Forecasts);
“2022 Notes”
means
the
£350
million
aggregate
principal
amount
of
4.250 per cent. Senior Secured Notes due 2022 issued on
5 May 2017 by Drax Finco under the 2022 Notes Indenture;
“2022 Notes Indenture”
means the Drax Finco indenture dated as of 5 May 2017, as
amended and restated from time to time;
“2025 Notes”
means the US$300 million aggregate principal amount of
6.625 per cent. Senior Secured Notes due 2025 issued on
26 April 2018 by Drax Finco under the 2025 Notes Indenture;
“2025 Notes Indenture”
means the Drax Finco indenture dated as of 26 April 2018, as
amended and restated from time to time;
“Acquisition”
means the proposed acquisition of SPGEN pursuant to the
Acquisition Agreement;
“Acquisition Agreement”
means the agreement dated 16 October 2018, between Drax
Smart Generation and the Seller in relation to the Acquisition
(as amended);
“Acquisition Agreement
Amendment Deed”
means the deed dated 3 December 2018 amending the
Acquisition Agreement between Drax Smart Generation and
the Seller;
“Acquisition Facility”
means the £725 million committed acquisition facility under the
Acquisition Facility Agreement;
“Acquisition Facility Agreement”
means
the
acquisition
bridge
facility
agreement
dated
16 October 2018 between Drax Corporate as borrower, Drax
Group Holdings as original guarantor, Barclays Bank PLC,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch International Limited and J.P.
Morgan Securities plc as mandated lead arrangers, Barclays
Bank PLC as facility agent, and Barclays Bank PLC, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch International Limited and JPMorgan
Chase Bank, N.A., London Branch as original lenders;
“Board”
means the board of Directors of Drax;
“Brexit”
means the forthcoming exit of the UK from the EU;
“Capacity Market”
means the UK Government initiative (established as part of the
electricity market reform policy) to incentivise investment in
more sustainable, low-carbon electricity capacity at the least
cost for energy consumers;
“Capacity Market Arrangement”
means the arrangement included in the Acquisition Agreement
Amendment Deed in response to the Capacity Market Ruling;
78
“Capacity Market Ruling”
means the ruling of the General Court of the European Union
issued
on
15
November
2018,
annulling
the
European
Commission’s 2014 decision not to undertake a more detailed
investigation of the UK Government’s scheme establishing the
Capacity Market;
“CCGT”
means combined cycle gas turbine stations, which generate
electricity using both a gas turbine and a steam turbine;
“Circular”
means this document;
“CMA”
means the UK Competition and Markets Authority;
“Companies Acts”
has the meaning given in section 2 of the Companies Act 2006;
“Company” or “Drax”
means Drax Group plc, a public limited company incorporated
in England and Wales with registered number 5562053 and
with its registered office at Drax Power Station, Selby, North
Yorkshire YO8 8PH;
“Completion”
means the completion of the purchase of the entire issued
share capital of SPGEN pursuant to the Acquisition Agreement;
“CREST”
means
the
system
of
paperless
settlement
of
trades
in
securities and the holding of uncertificated securities operated
by Euroclear in accordance with the Uncertificated Securities
Regulations 2001 (SI 2001/3755);
“CREST Manual”
means the manual, as amended from time to time, produced by
CRESTCo describing the CREST system and supplied by
CRESTCo Limited to users and participants thereof;
“CREST Proxy Instruction”
means the instruction whereby CREST members send a
CREST message appointing a proxy for the meeting and
instructing the proxy on how to vote;
“Directors”
means the directors of Drax;
“Disclosure and Transparency
Rules” or “DTRs”
means the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules made
by the FCA pursuant to Part VI of FSMA;
“Drax”
means Drax Group plc, a public limited company incorporated
in England and Wales with registered number 5562053 and
with its registered office at Drax Power Station, Selby, North
Yorkshire YO8 8PH;
“Drax Corporate”
means Drax Corporate Limited, a private limited company
incorporated in England and Wales with registered number
05562058 and with its registered office at Drax Power Station,
Selby, North Yorkshire YO8 8PH;
“Drax Developments”
means
Drax
Research
and
Innovation
Holdco
Limited
(previously known as Drax Developments Limited), a private
limited company incorporated in England and Wales with
registered number 06657454 and with its registered office at
Drax Power Station, Selby, North Yorkshire YO8 8PH;
“Drax Finco”
means Drax Finco plc, a public limited company incorporated in
England and Wales with registered number 10664639 and with
its registered office at Drax Power Station, Selby, North
Yorkshire YO8 8PH;
79
“Drax Group”
means Drax and its subsidiary undertakings from time to time;
“Drax Group Holdings”
means Drax Group Holdings Limited, a private limited company
incorporated in England and Wales with registered number
09887429 and with its registered office at Drax Power Station,
Selby, North Yorkshire YO8 8PH;
“Drax Power”
means
Drax
Power
Limited,
a
private
limited
company
incorporated in England and Wales with registered number
04883589 and with its registered office at Drax Power Station,
Selby, North Yorkshire YO8 8PH;
“Drax Power Station”
means Drax’s biomass and coal-fired power station in North
Yorkshire, England;
“Drax Smart Generation”
means Drax Smart Generation Holdco Limited, a private limited
company incorporated in England and Wales with registered
number 07821911 and with its registered office at Drax Power
Station, Selby, North Yorkshire YO8 8PH;
“Drax’s 2015 Annual Report and
Accounts”
means the annual report and accounts prepared by Drax for the
financial year ended 31 December 2015;
“Drax’s 2016 Annual Report and
Accounts”
means the annual report and accounts prepared by Drax for the
financial year ended 31 December 2016;
“Drax’s 2017 Annual Report and
Accounts”
means the annual report and accounts prepared by Drax for the
financial year ended 31 December 2017;
“EBITDA”
means earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation,
unrealised gains and losses on derivative contracts
and
material or one-off items that do not reflect the underlying
trading performance of the business;
“Enlarged Group”
means the Drax Group including the ScottishPower Generation
Group after the Acquisition;
“EU”
means the European Union;
“FCA”
means the Financial Conduct Authority of the United Kingdom;
“Fitch”
means Fitch Ratings Inc.;
“Form of Direction”
means the form of direction accompanying this Circular (for
Share Incentive Plan participants who have not elected to
receive shareholder communications in electronic form) for use
by Share Incentive Plan participants in connection with the
General Meeting;
“Form of Proxy”
means the form of proxy accompanying this Circular (for those
Shareholders who have not elected to receive shareholder
communications in electronic form) for use by Shareholders in
connection with the General Meeting;
“FSMA”
means the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, as
amended;
“General Meeting”
means the general meeting of Drax convened by the notice that
is set out at the end of this Circular to be held at the offices of
FTI Consulting, 200 Aldersgate Street, London EC1A 4HD on
21 December 2018 at 10.00am or any reconvened meeting
following any adjournment thereof;
80
“Guarantors”
means the guarantors under the Acquisition Facility Agreement,
which are Drax Group Holdings and certain subsidiaries of Drax
Group Holdings;
“IAS”
means the International Accounting Standards;
“IFRIC”
means
the
interpretations
of
the
IFRS
Interpretations
Committee;
“IFRS”
means the International Financial Reporting Standards;
“Intercreditor Agreement”
means the intercreditor agreement dated 5 May 2017 between,
among others, Drax Corporate, Drax Finco, certain other
subsidiaries of Drax Group Holdings and certain creditors of the
Restricted Group;
“Investment Contract”
means an investment contract relating to Unit 1 with the
Secretary of State for Energy and Climate Change;
“J.P. Morgan Cazenove”
means J.P. Morgan Securities plc (which conducts its UK
investment banking activities as J.P. Morgan Cazenove);
“Latest Practicable Date”
means 3 December 2018, being the latest practicable date for
the
calculation
and
inclusion
of
information
prior
to
the
publication of this Circular;
“LIBOR”
means the London Interbank Offered Rate;
“Listing Rules”
means the Listing Rules made by the FCA pursuant to FSMA
governing, inter alia, admission of securities to the Official List
of the FCA;
“London Stock Exchange”
means the London Stock Exchange plc or any recognised
investment exchange for the purposes of FSMA that may take
over the functions of the London Stock Exchange plc;
“Long Stop Date”
means 30 April 2019;
“Manweb Scheme”
means the defined benefit Manweb Group of the Electricity
Supply Pension Scheme;
“New Scheme”
means the new defined benefit pension scheme to be set up
after an interim period by the ScottishPower Generation Group
for the benefit of its employees;
“NGET”
means National Grid Electricity Transmission plc;
“Notice”
means the notice of General Meeting at Part X (Notice of
General Meeting);
“O&M”
means operation and maintenance;
“OCGT”
means an open cycle gas turbine, which generates electricity
using a gas turbine;
“Opus Circular”
means the circular dated 18 January 2017 relating to the
acquisition by Drax of Opus Energy Group Limited;
“Ordinary Shares”
means ordinary shares of 1116/29 pence each in the capital of
the Company;
81
“Portfolio”
means the portfolio of assets which is the subject of the
Acquisition
Agreement,
consisting
of
Cruachan
pumped
storage
hydro
(440MW),
run-of-river
hydro
locations
at
Galloway and Lanark (126MW), four CCGT stations, Damhead
Creek (805MW), Rye House (715MW), Shoreham (420MW)
and Blackburn Mill (60MW), and a biomass-from-waste facility
(Daldowie);
“Prudent Operating Practice”
means the practices and the level of skill, care and diligence
that would reasonably be expected of a skilled, experienced
and prudent operator of a business of a similar size, nature and
complexity to the business of SPGEN (or a relevant part of it);
“Registrars”
means Equiniti Limited, Proxy Department, Aspect House,
Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA;
“Renewables Obligation”
means
the
financial
support
mechanism
for
large-scale
renewable electricity generation in the UK introduced in 2002;
“Resolution”
means the ordinary resolution as set out in the Notice of
General Meeting at the end of this Circular;
“Restricted Group”
means Drax Group Holdings and its subsidiaries from time to
time (save for any such subsidiaries which are designated as
unrestricted subsidiaries from time to time in accordance with
the terms of the Acquisition Facility Agreement, the Senior
Facilities Agreement, the 2022 Notes Indenture and the 2025
Notes Indenture);
“Revolving Facility”
means the £315 million committed multicurrency working
capital and ancillary facility, including, without limitation, a letter
of credit facility provided under the Senior Facilities Agreement;
“ROC”
means
a
Renewables
Obligation
Certificate,
a
tradable
certificate issued by Ofgem to an accredited generator for
electricity generated from eligible renewable sources in the UK;
“S&P”
means Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC;
“ScottishPower Generation Group”
means SPGEN and SMW;
“Secured Trading Line”
means the arrangement under ISDA agreements between Drax
Power and a number of financial institutions, under which Drax
Power can trade UK power, dark green spreads and gas on a
senior secured basis without the requirement for Drax Power to
post collateral;
“Seller”
means ScottishPower Generation Holdings;
“Senior Facilities”
means the Revolving Facility and the Term Loan;
“Senior Facilities Agreement”
means
the
revolving
credit
facility
agreement
dated
20 December 2012 between, among others, Drax Power as
borrower, Barclays Bank PLC as facility agent and Drax
Corporate,
as
amended
and
restated
pursuant
to
an
amendment and restatement agreement on 21 April 2017, with
effect from 5 May 2017;
“Share Incentive Plan”
means the Drax Group Approved Share Incentive Plan;
“Shareholders”
means holders of Ordinary Shares;
82
“SMW”
means SMW Limited, a private limited company incorporated in
Scotland with registered number SC165988 and with its
registered office at 320 St. Vincent Street, Glasgow, Scotland,
G2 5AD;
“SPGEN”
means
ScottishPower
Generation
Limited,
a
company
incorporated in Scotland with registered number SC189124,
whose registered office is at 320 St. Vincent Street, Glasgow,
Scotland, G2 5AD;
“SPPS”
means the defined benefit ScottishPower Pension Scheme;
“subsidiary” and “subsidiary
undertaking”
have the meanings given to them in sections 1159 and 1162
(respectively) of the Companies Act 2006;
“Term Loan”
means the £35 million term facility provided under the Senior
Facilities Agreement;
“Transitional Services
Agreement” or “TSA”
means the transitional services agreement to be entered into at
Completion between Drax Smart Generation and the Seller;
“Unaudited Pro Forma Financial
Information”
means
the
unaudited
pro
forma
income
statement
and
unaudited pro forma net assets statement of the Enlarged
Group set out in Part A in Part VI; and
“Unit 1”
means Drax Power’s third coal-to-biomass conversion unit.
83
PART X
NOTICE OF GENERAL MEETING
Drax Group plc
(Registered in England and Wales with registered number 5562053)
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that a General Meeting of Drax Group plc (the “Company”) will be held at
the offices of FTI Consulting, 200 Aldersgate Street, London EC1A 4HD on 21 December 2018 at
10.00am to consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as an ordinary resolution of the
Company:
Ordinary Resolution
THAT the proposed acquisition of the entire issued share capital of ScottishPower Generation Limited
(the “Transaction”) on the terms and subject to the conditions of a sale and purchase agreement
dated 16 October 2018 (as amended on 3 December 2018) between (1) Scottish Power Generation
Holdings Limited, and (2) Drax Smart Generation HoldCo Limited and summarised in the circular dated
5 December 2018 relating to the Transaction be and is hereby approved, and any and all of the
directors of the Company be and are hereby authorised to: (i) do all such acts and things and execute
all such agreements and make such arrangements as they may consider to be necessary, desirable or
appropriate to complete, implement and to give effect to, or otherwise in connection with, the
Transaction and any matters incidental to the Transaction; and (ii) waive, amend, vary, revise or
extend any of the terms and conditions of such agreements, provided that any such waivers,
amendments, revisions or extensions are not of a material nature.
By order of the Board
David McCallum
General Counsel and Group Company Secretary
Drax Group plc
5 December 2018
Notes:
1.
Pursuant to regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 (as amended) and for the purposes of section
360B of the Companies Act 2006 (“CA 2006”), the Company specifies that only those shareholders registered on the
register of members of the Company (“Register”) at 6.30pm on the day two business days before the date of the meeting
(the “Specified Time”) (or if the meeting is adjourned to a time more than 48 hours after the Specified Time, by 6.30pm on
the day which is two business days prior to the time of the adjourned meeting) shall be entitled to attend and vote thereat in
respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time. If the meeting is adjourned to a time not more than 48
hours after the Specified Time, that time will also apply for the purposes of determining the entitlement of members to attend
and vote (and for the purposes of determining the number of votes they may cast) at the adjourned meeting. Changes to the
Register after the relevant deadline shall be disregarded in determining rights to attend and vote.
2.
If you have sold or transferred all your shares, this Circular and any accompanying documents (but not the personalised
Form of Proxy or Form of Direction) should be passed to the person through whom the sale or transfer was made for
transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
3.
If you are a member of the Company, at the time set out in note 1 above, you are entitled to appoint one or more proxies to
exercise all or any of your rights to attend, speak and vote at the meeting. Completion and return of a Form of Proxy will not
prevent a member from attending in person and voting at the meeting. If a member appoints more than one proxy to attend
the meeting, each proxy must be appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that
member.
If a member wishes to appoint more than one proxy and so requires additional proxy forms, the member should contact the
Company’s Registrars, Equiniti Limited, Proxy Department, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA
or by using their telephone helpline service on 0371 384 2030 from within the UK. Lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm,
Monday to Friday – excluding Bank Holidays; or +44 121 415 7047 from outside the UK.
4.
A proxy does not need to be a shareholder of the Company but must attend the meeting for the member’s vote to be
counted. Your proxy could be the Chairman, another director of the Company or another person who has agreed to attend to
represent you. Details of how to appoint the Chairman or another person (or persons) as your proxy using the Form of Proxy
are set out in the notes to the Form of Proxy. Appointing a proxy does not preclude you from attending the meeting and
voting in person.
5.
You can only appoint a proxy using the procedures set out in these notes and the notes on the Form of Proxy. A Form of
Proxy is enclosed. To be effective, the Form of Proxy must be completed and signed and, together with the power of
84
attorney or authority, if any, under which it is signed (or a duly certified copy of any such power or authority), must be lodged
with the Company’s Registrars not later than 48 hours, excluding non-business days, before the time of the meeting or must
be lodged using the CREST proxy voting services (see note 7 below). Return of a completed Form of Proxy will not preclude
a member from attending and voting personally at the meeting.
6.
In the case of joint holders, where more than one of the joint holders purports to appoint a proxy, only the appointment
submitted by the most senior holder will be accepted. Seniority is determined by the order in which the names of the joint
holders appear in the Register in respect of the joint holding (the first-named being deemed the most senior).
7.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may
do so for the meeting and any adjournment(s) thereof utilising the procedures described in the CREST Manual (available via
www.euroclear.com). CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who
have appointed a voting service provider(s), should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider(s), who will be
able to take the appropriate action on their behalf. In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST
service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message (a CREST Proxy Instruction) must be properly authenticated in
accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited’s specifications and must contain the information required for such
instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a
previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the Company’s agent, Equiniti
Limited (CREST participant ID RA19) by the latest time(s) for receipt of proxy appointments specified in note 5 above. For
this purpose the time of receipt will be taken to be the time (as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the
CREST Applications Host) from which the Company’s agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the
manner prescribed by CREST. After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be
communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK &
Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages. Normal system timings
and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions. It is the responsibility of the CREST
member concerned to take (or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has
appointed a voting service provider(s), to procure that his or her CREST sponsor or voting service provider(s) take(s)) such
action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred,
in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings
available at www.euroclear.com.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in regulation 35(5)(a) of the
Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 (as amended).
8.
A vote withheld is not a vote in law, which means that the vote will not be counted in the calculation of votes for or against
the Resolution. If you either select the “discretionary” option or if no voting indication is given, your proxy will vote or abstain
from voting at his or her discretion. Your proxy will vote (or abstain from voting) as he or she thinks fit in relation to any other
matter which is put before the meeting.
9.
If the Chairman, as a result of any proxy appointments, is given discretion as to how the votes the subject of those proxies
are cast and the voting rights in respect of those discretionary proxies, when added to the interests in the Company’s
securities already held by the Chairman, result in the Chairman holding such number of voting rights that he has a notifiable
obligation under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, the Chairman will make the necessary notifications to the
Company and the Financial Conduct Authority. As a result, any member holding 3 per cent. or more of the voting rights in
the Company who grants the Chairman a discretionary proxy in respect of some or all of those voting rights and so would
otherwise have a notification obligation under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, need not make a separate notification
to the Company and the Financial Conduct Authority.
10. If you are not a member of the Company but you have been nominated by a member of the Company to enjoy information
rights, you do not have a right to appoint any proxies under the procedures set out in notes 3 to 9. Please read note 15
below.
11. Alternatively, members may register the appointment of a proxy for the meeting electronically by accessing the website
www.sharevote.co.uk where full details of the procedure are given. This website is operated by the Company’s Registrars.
The proxy appointment and any power of attorney or other authority under which the proxy appointment is made must be
received by the Company’s Registrars not less than 48 hours, excluding non-business days, before the time for holding the
meeting or adjourned meeting or (in the case of a poll taken otherwise than at or on the same day as the meeting or
adjourned meeting) for the taking of the poll at which it is to be used. Please note that any electronic communication sent to
the Company or to the Company’s Registrars that is found to contain a computer virus will not be accepted. The use of the
internet service in connection with the General Meeting is governed by the Company’s Registrars’ conditions of use set out
on the Sharevote website, www.sharevote.co.uk, and may be read by logging on to that site. If you want to appoint more
than one proxy electronically please contact the Company’s Registrars on 0371 384 2030 from within the UK. Lines are
open from 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday – excluding Bank Holidays; or +44 121 415 7047 from outside the UK.
12. A copy of this Notice and other information required by section 311A of the CA 2006 can be found on the Company’s
website www.drax.com.
13. To change your proxy instructions, simply submit a new proxy appointment. You will need to request a new Form of Proxy
from the Company’s Registrars, Equiniti Limited, by contacting them at Equiniti Limited, Proxy Department, Aspect House,
Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA or by using their telephone helpline service on 0371 384 2030 from within
the UK. Lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday – excluding Bank Holidays; or +44 121 415 7047 from
outside the UK. Note that the cut-off time for receipt of Forms of Proxy (see note 5 above) also applies in relation to
85
amended instructions; any amended proxy appointment received after the relevant cut-off time will be disregarded and you
will be required to vote at the meeting, if you wish to change your vote.
14. If you submit more than one valid proxy appointment in respect of a single share, the appointment received last before the
latest time for the receipt of proxies will take precedence.
15. Any person receiving a copy of this Notice as a person nominated by a member to enjoy information rights under section
146 of the CA 2006 (a “Nominated Person”) should note that the provisions in this Notice concerning the appointment of a
proxy or proxies to attend the meeting in place of a member do not apply to a Nominated Person as only shareholders have
the right to appoint a proxy. However, a Nominated Person may have a right under an agreement between the Nominated
Person and the member by whom he or she was nominated to be appointed, or to have someone else appointed, as a proxy
for the meeting. If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right, or does not wish to exercise it, he or she may
have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights at the meeting. If
you are a person who has been nominated under section 146 of CA 2006 to enjoy information rights:
•
you may have a right under an agreement between you and the member of the Company who has nominated you to
have information rights (a “Relevant Member”) to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the
meeting; and
•
if you either do not have such a right or if you have such a right but do not wish to exercise it, you may have a right
under an agreement between you and the Relevant Member to give instructions to the Relevant Member as to the
exercise of voting rights. Nominated Persons should also remember that their main point of contact in terms of their
investment in the Company remains the member who nominated the Nominated Person to enjoy information rights (or
the custodian or broker who administers the investment on their behalf). Nominated Persons should continue to contact
that member, custodian or broker (and not the Company) regarding any changes or queries relating to the Nominated
Person’s personal details and interest in the Company (including any administrative matter). The only exception to this
is where the Company expressly requests a response from a Nominated Person.
16. Voting on the Resolution to be put to the General Meeting will be by poll, rather than a show of hands, so that all shares
voted are included, whether or not the shareholder is able to attend the meeting. The board of directors of the Company
believes this to be the most democratic procedure for voting on resolutions as member votes will be counted according to
the number of shares held.
The results of the voting at the meeting and the number of proxy votes cast for and against and the number of votes actively
abstained in respect of the Resolution proposed at the meeting will be announced to the London Stock Exchange as soon
as practicable following the meeting and also will be published on the Company’s website, www.drax.com.
17. As at 3 December 2018, being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this Notice, the Company’s issued share
capital comprised 407,185,287 ordinary shares of 11 16⁄29 pence each. Each ordinary share carries the right to one vote at a
general meeting of the Company and the Company held 11,851,542 shares in treasury as at 3 December 2018. Therefore,
the total number of voting rights in the Company as at 3 December 2018 was 395,333,745.
18. This Notice, together with information about the total numbers of shares in the Company in respect of which members are
entitled to exercise voting rights at the meeting as at 3 December 2018, being the latest practicable date prior to the
publication of this Notice and, if applicable, any members’ statements, members’ resolutions or members’ matters of
business received by the Company after the date of this Notice, will be available on the Company’s website, www.drax.com.
19. Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of
its powers as a member provided that it does not do so in relation to the same shares.
20. Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask questions. The Company must cause to be answered any question
relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting put by a member attending the meeting. However, members should
note that no answer need be given in the following circumstances:
•
if to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation of the meeting or would involve a disclosure of confidential
information;
•
if the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question; or
•
if it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
21. Any electronic address provided either in this Notice or in any related documents (including the Form of Proxy) may not be
used to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
22. The doors of the General Meeting venue will open at 9.30am and the General Meeting will start promptly at 10.00am. Please
bring the attendance card which is attached to the Form of Proxy with you if you attend the meeting. It will authenticate your
right to attend, speak and vote and will speed up your admission to the meeting.
23. You may be asked to provide proof of identity, as well as your attendance card from your Form of Proxy. If you do not have
your attendance card, you may be asked to provide two forms of identity (which may require photo identity and verification of
your address). If you have been appointed as proxy for a shareholder entitled to vote, please let the admission staff know.
You should bring proof of identity with you and you will be asked to confirm the details of the shareholder you are
representing.
24. If you have any queries about voting or about your shareholding, you can contact Equiniti Limited, who maintain the
Register, as follows:
•
by using their telephone helpline service:
•
from within the UK, on 0371 384 2030; or
•
from outside the UK, on +44 121 415 7047; or
•
by writing to them at Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA.
86
The helpline for Share Incentive Plan participants is: UK 0371 384 2040, overseas +44 121 415 7161.
The telephone helpline service will be available between 8.30am and 5.30pm, Monday to Friday – excluding Bank Holidays.
The telephone helpline service will not be able to provide legal, financial or personal taxation advice. Calls may be recorded
and randomly monitored for security and training purposes.
25. The Company considers it beneficial to its shareholders to hold the General Meeting as soon as possible in order to allow it
to, assuming shareholders vote in favour of the Resolution, assume control of ScottishPower Generation Limited and begin
to integrate the two businesses and obtain the other benefits of ownership of ScottishPower Generation Limited. As a result,
the Company has not given 14 working days’ notice of the General Meeting as provided for in the guidance given by
paragraph E.2.4 of the UK Corporate Governance Code. The Company is, however, fully compliant with the legal
requirements of the CA 2006 and its articles of association, having given 14 days’ clear notice of the General Meeting.
87
Donnelley Financial Solutions 649697
