 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
ABERGELLI POWER PROJECT 
Abergelli Farm, 
Felindre, Swansea 
 
Summary of 2014 Consultation Activities 
 
 
 
January 2018 
www.abergellipower.co.uk 
 
 
January2018 
2 
 
 
SUMMARY OF 2014 CONSULTATION ACTIVITIES  
 
APL first announced its proposals for the Project in May 2014 and conducted its consultation 
activities in two phases: an initial phase of consultation between May and September 2014, and a 
period of statutory consultation in October and November 2014. The sections below detail the 
various consultation activities undertaken during 2014.  
 
1. 2014 NON-STATUTORY CONSULTATION 
 
In May/June 2014, APL undertook an introductory information programme and non-statutory 
consultation exercise. This included: 
 
a. 
Discussions with officers and councillors at CCS about the Project and the proposed non-
statutory consultation exercise including exhibition venues and representatives who should 
be invited. 
 
b. 
As every home and business in the CCZ is represented by a CCS county councillor and a 
community council, APL communicated its plans to the local councils and community 
council, as well as the local MP Martin Caton, local AM Edwina   Hart   and   regional   AMs.   
APL   had   an   ongoing   programme   of engagement with the AMs and MP in question to 
discuss the Project and answer any questions they may have. 
 
c. 
As part of the non-statutory consultation, a Project website was launched to coincide with 
the 
Project 
being 
introduced 
to 
the 
local 
community. 
The 
website 
(www.abergellipower.co.uk) provides information on the Project and enables people to ask 
questions and provide feedback to APL about the Project.  The website is bilingual, in both 
English and Welsh. It carries the latest information about the Project (technical, 
environmental and communications), contact details and a mechanism to enable people to 
ask questions and provide feedback. 
 
d. 
As part of the non-statutory consultation, a letter of introduction about the Project was sent 
to approximately 5,500 households and businesses in the immediate vicinity of the Project 
Site. The letter contained details about the Project and an invitation to attend information 
exhibitions near the Project Site. The letter was sent and distributed by Royal Mail a week 
prior to the first exhibition date, and was produced in both English and Welsh. 
 
e. 
As part of the non-statutory consultation in 2014, exhibitions were held at the following 
locations to give local people the maximum opportunity to attend: 
• 
Thursday, June 19th - Forge Fach Community Resource Centre, Clydach (1.00pm till 
7.00pm); 
• 
Friday, June 20th - Felindre Welfare Hall, Felindre (1.00pm till 7.00pm); and 
• 
Saturday, June 21st - Tircoed Village Hall, Tircoed (10.00am till 3.00pm) 
 
f. 
Exhibition locations were chosen because they were considered convenient to those 
communities within the CCZ that surround the Project Site. These events featured relevant 
information that was known at the time in a variety of formats (display panels, maps, plans, 
January2018 
3 
 
leaflet etc.) about the proposal, in both English and Welsh. Members of the APL project team 
were available to discuss the proposal, answer questions and to receive feedback from  
members of the public. Feedback was sought during the non-statutory consultation / 
information period as to whether APL should do anything differently during the statutory 
consultation process. 
 
g. 
APL used venues that met Disability Discrimination Act 1995 requirements and upon a 
reasonable and timely request had provisions in place for those with special requirements 
who were unable to attend or access a consultation event (for example, private transport to 
the exhibition event). 
 
h. 
More than 90 people attended the exhibitions, including local councillors. The local media 
(print, TV, radio and online) published news reports about the exhibitions in advance of them 
being held. 
 
i. 
APL issued news releases before the exhibitions were held, and these were posted on the 
APL website. The news releases were issued to the local media and reports were published 
in the media as a result. 
 
j. 
APL advertised the informal information exhibitions via a display advertisement in the South 
Wales Evening Post newspaper, published on June 12th 2014. 
 
k. 
A leaflet about the Project was produced for people who attended the exhibition, and 
additional copies were provided to local councillors and others for wider dissemination. The 
leaflet contained details of the Project, the consultation process, an indicative timeframe for 
the Project’s development and also the APL website address and contact details. In addition, 
a feedback form was available for people to fill in on the day or to return via Freepost to 
APL. 
 
l. 
Posters advertising the consultation events were displayed at community venues within the 
CCZ, for example local shops, post offices and doctors’ surgeries. 
 
m. 
Since May 2014, the APL website has carried information about the Project (technical, 
environmental and communications). Contact details and a mechanism to enable people to 
ask questions and provide feedback has remained available.  
 
n. 
APL considered the provision, upon request, of written materials about the Project in 
different formats (for example, large print or braille). 
 
o. 
Comments and queries via telephone (as well as via post, email or fax) were accepted during 
the periods of non-statutory and statutory consultation in 2014. 
 
p. 
In summary, the Project was introduced to the local community to raise awareness of its key 
points. The statutory consultation process detailed in section 2.0 (below) built upon this 
awareness with a view to gaining formal feedback from local people and interested 
stakeholders before the application for the DCO is submitted. 
January2018 
4 
 
 
2. 2014 STATUTORY CONSULTATION METHODOLOGY & ACCESSIBILITY 
 
The period of statutory consultation was conducted between October 13th and 16th November 2014 
(a 35 day period):  
 
▪ 
APL consulted with officers at CCS on the content of the consultation plan and the draft 
SoCC. 
 
▪ 
APL began statutory consultation engagement with elected members of CCS, community 
councils, the local MP and AMs whose constituency covers the CCZ. 
 
▪ 
APL used elected members of CCS and community councils as communication channels, 
via meetings and correspondence, to share information and seek community feedback during 
the period of statutory consultation. 
 
▪ 
Exhibitions/consultation events were held at the following locations: 
 
• 
Llangyfelach Church Hall; 
• 
Felindre Welfare Hall; 
• 
Forge Fach Resource Centre, Clydach; and 
• 
Tircoed Village Hall. 
 
▪ 
These events featured relevant information in a variety of formats (display panels, plans, 
leaflet etc) about the Project, in both English and Welsh. The Preliminary Environmental 
Impact Report (PEIR) was also made available for review. Members of the APL project team 
were available to discuss the Project, answer questions and to receive feedback from 
members of the public. A total of 106 people attended the public exhibitions. 
▪ 
In consultation with CCS, APL shared information about the Project with  those “hard to reach 
groups” living and working within the CCZ. These groups were accessed through informal 
and formal channels - via council services and relevant specialist organisations (for example 
the local branches of the Women’s Institute and local business representative groups such 
as the South Wales Chamber of Commerce). 
 
▪ 
APL advertised the consultation events via the Swansea-based South Wales Evening Post, 
for two weeks prior to the first event taking place. In addition APL announced via the issue of 
news releases to local and regional news publications, the local radio and TV stations (and 
via online media) that the events were taking place. The content gave information on APL’s 
proposals and details of the consultation events, including contact information. 
 
▪ 
A leaflet about the Project and the consultation programme was distributed by Royal Mail to 
households, businesses and institutions in the CCZ to coincide with the start of the 
consultation period, and in advance of the first consultation event, informing them of the 
consultation events taking place. The leaflet included details of the Project, the location and 
dates of the consultation events, the APL website address. This leaflet was produced in both 
English and Welsh. 
 
▪ 
Posters advertising the consultation events was displayed at community venues within the 
CCZ and the OCZ, for example local libraries, local shops and post offices, local schools and 
January2018 
5 
 
colleges and doctors’ surgeries. 
 
▪ 
APL informed those community councils within the OCZ about the Project and the 
exhibition/consultation event via letter. 
 
▪ 
The APL team actively and reactively met with individuals and interested groups in the local 
area as part of the formal consultation period to answer questions and provide updates about 
the Project. 
 
▪ 
The APL website carried the latest information about the Project (technical, environmental 
and communications), contact details and a mechanism to enable people to ask questions 
and provide feedback. 
 
A range of feedback was provided, predominantly relating to the need for the Project, site selection 
process, consultation process, community benefits and potential landscape, transport and socio-
economic impacts.  Comments and queries via telephone (as well as via post, email or fax) were 
considered and addressed within the scheme where possible, as well as comments noted. Details 
of how these responses were taken into account will be included in the Consultation report that will 
accompany the DCO Application.  
 
 
