Delivering energy
for the future
Progress Power proposes to develop a gas-fired power station on the Eye
Airfield industrial estate, a part of which has been identified by Mid Suffolk
District Council for potential use as an Energy Park.
The proposed power station will be capable of generating up to 299MW of electricity,
enough to power the equivalent of 400,000 homes. Using the very latest and most
efficient power generating technology, it will burn natural gas to generate electricity
that will be delivered into the National Grid.
Subject to public consultation, planning and financing, the Progress power station
could enter commercial operation in 2018. It would create between 150-250 jobs
during construction, up to 30 full time jobs once operating and plough tens of millions
of pounds into the local economy during its 25-30 year lifetime. The Progress Power
plant would help underpin Mid Suffolk District Council’s wider development ambitions
for the Airfield.
Who is Progress Power?
Progress Power is an energy development company dedicated to the Eye Airfield project and is a part
of Watt Power Ltd.
The development team at Watt Power has a long track record of developing successful energy infrastructure
projects in the UK and overseas. The company aims to develop a portfolio of flexible gas-fired power stations
in the UK in support of the Government's drive towards a low carbon economy.
Watt Power has a strong commitment to safety, the environment and the communities within which it operates.
Progress Power intends to work closely with local communities as the proposals for the Eye Airfield power
station evolve.
01/
02
The need for gas generation:
Gas is affordable, reliable and flexible. It is acknowledged by the Government as being essential to a low-carbon
economy and to retain the country’s energy security, as many coal and oil-fired power stations in the UK are set
to close down over the next few years. Many ageing nuclear power stations will also close in the near future. Whilst
new nuclear stations such as Sizewell C have been proposed, they are unlikely to enter service until after 2025.
In addition, gas provides essential back-up to power generation from renewable resources, primarily wind power,
which is increasing but intermittent.
New gas generation plants, like the one proposed for Eye Airfield, will underpin energy security and help ensure
there is no shortfall in the country's generating capacity.
The proposed power station at Eye Airfield will be designed to operate flexibly (i.e. not ‘always on’) so that it can
respond quickly and efficiently to short-term variations in customer demand and intermittent output from onshore
and offshore wind power.
Modern gas-fired power plants are among the most efficient forms of electricity generation. They emit at least 50%
less carbon dioxide than existing coal-fired plants and can therefore make a significant contribution to the reduction
of the country's carbon emissions.
Why Eye Airfield?
After extensive studies across the country, we consider Eye Airfield to be one of the very best sites in the UK.
It has three key advantages:
1. Close proximity to the national gas and electricity distribution networks
2. Location in National Grid’s strategic area for new generation (south of The Wash)
3. The airfield has been identified for potential energy use in Mid Suffolk Council’s Eye Airfield
Development Framework
03/
04
Proposed Survey Areas for Electricity and Gas Connections
Eye Airfield Development Framework
Community benefits:
This £200m project would represent a substantial investment in the area and deliver significant economic benefits
for a period of least 25 years
• Creation of around 150-250 jobs during the 2 to 3 year construction period
• Up to 30 permanent skilled jobs for on-going operation and maintenance of the facility
• Potential business opportunities for local suppliers
Progress Power will consult Mid Suffolk District Council and Suffolk County Council on ways to bring wider social
and environmental benefits to the surrounding area.
Environment:
This proposed power station will help ensure that the country meets its low carbon emission targets by being designed
and constructed to the highest quality, safety and environmental standards. Every effort will be made to minimise its
impact on the local environment, both during construction and operation. Its footprint within the area and the steps
to mitigate its impacts will form a major part of the consultation and planning process.
An Environmental Scoping Report has been prepared to identify the scope of information required to complete
the application for a Development Consent Order (DCO). It is available on our website and in council offices.
A detailed Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) will be undertaken in accordance with local planning policy,
Government legislation, statutory guidance and best practice and will be shared with local interest groups.
The EIA will consider a range of issues including:
• air and water quality
• emissions
• noise
• visual impact
• local ecology, archaeology and heritage
• transport
05/
06
Submission of
Scoping Report to
planning
Inspectorate
7 May 2013
Public Exhibitions
17/18 May 2013
Publication of Preliminary
Environmental Information
Report and Statement of
Community Consultation
Aug 2013
Public Exhibitions /
Period of Formal Consultation (28 Days)
Sep/Oct 2013
February 2014
May 2013
PRE APPLICATION
Key
milestones:
Submission of Development
Consent Order to
Planning Inspectorate
Jan 2014
Decision from The Secretary
of State June 2015
June 2015
Commercial
Operations
Q4 2018
EXAMINATION AND DECISION
FINANCE, CONSTRUCTION AND OPERATIONS
Construction Start
2016/2017
07/
08
Planning and Consultation:
The proposed Progress Power station will require development consent approval. Given its size, the project will
be considered by the Planning Inspectorate on behalf of the Secretary of State for Energy and Climate Change,
not by the local planning committee. The final decision will be made by the Secretary of State. Mid Suffolk District
Council and Suffolk County Council will be key consultees along with local parish councils and other local and
national organisations.
Public consultation is an integral part of the planning process. Local residents, businesses and other local interest
groups will be consulted before any applications are made and their views will help shape the final DCO application.
The local community will have several opportunities to consider and comment on the proposed station as technical
and environmental studies and associated design works are undertaken.
Prior to submission of any application, there will be a two-stage consultation process: non-statutory consultation
(Phase I) followed by a period of statutory consultation (Phase II).
09/
10
For more information, please visit
www.progresspower.co.uk
Or contact us via:
Tel. 01603 417 722
Email: info@progresspower.co.uk
49 York Place Edinburgh EH1 3JD Scotland
