The economic impact of Drax Group 
 
THE ECONOMIC 
IMPACT OF 
DRAX GROUP IN 
THE UK 
 
 
 
 
SEPTEMBER 2016 
 
Oxford Economics 
Oxford Economics was founded in 1981 as a commercial venture with Oxford University’s business 
college to provide economic forecasting and modelling to UK companies and financial institutions 
expanding abroad. Since then, we have become one of the world’s foremost independent global 
advisory firms, providing reports, forecasts and analytical tools on 200 countries, 100 industrial 
sectors and over 3,000 cities. Our best-of-class global economic and industry models and analytical 
tools give us an unparalleled ability to forecast external market trends and assess their economic, 
social and business impact. 
Headquartered in Oxford, England, with regional centres in London, New York, and Singapore, Oxford 
Economics has offices across the globe in Belfast, Chicago, Dubai, Miami, Milan, Paris, Philadelphia, 
San Francisco, and Washington DC. We employ over 230 full-time people, including more than 150 
professional economists, industry experts and business editors—one of the largest teams of 
macroeconomists and thought leadership specialists. Our global team is highly skilled in a full range of 
research techniques and thought leadership capabilities, from econometric modelling, scenario framing, 
and economic impact analysis to market surveys, case studies, expert panels, and web analytics. 
Underpinning our in-house expertise is a contributor network of over 500 economists, analysts and 
journalists around the world. 
Oxford Economics is a key adviser to corporate, financial and government decision-makers and 
thought leaders. Our worldwide client base now comprises over 1000 international organisations, 
including leading multinational companies and financial institutions; key government bodies and trade 
associations; and top universities, consultancies, and think tanks. 
 
 
 
September 2016 
All data shown in tables and charts are Oxford Economics’ own data, except where otherwise stated 
and cited in footnotes, and are copyright © Oxford Economics Ltd. 
This report is confidential to Drax Group plc and may not be published or distributed without their prior 
written permission.  
The modelling and results presented here are based on information provided by third parties, upon 
which Oxford Economics has relied in producing its report and forecasts in good faith. Any 
subsequent revision or update of those data will affect the assessments and projections shown. 
To discuss the report further please contact: 
Osman Ismail, Senior Economist: oismail@oxfordeconomics.com 
Pete Collings, Lead Economist, petecollings@oxfordeconomics.com 
Oxford Economics, Broadwall House, 21 Broadwall, London, SE1 9PL, UK 
Tel: +44 207 803 1400 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
Executive Summary ............................................................................................ 3 
1. Introduction...................................................................................................... 5 
1.1 The UK’s energy landscape ..................................................................... 5 
1.2 Drax Power Station .................................................................................. 5 
1.3 Drax Group ............................................................................................... 6 
1.4 Our approach ........................................................................................... 6 
2. The impact of Drax Group’s operations .......................................................... 8 
2.1 Direct impact of Drax Group .................................................................... 8 
2.2 Indirect impact of Drax Group .................................................................. 9 
2.3 Induced impact of Drax Group ............................................................... 12 
2.4 Total contribution of Drax Group ............................................................ 13 
3. The impact of Drax Power Station’s biomass conversion ............................. 15 
3.1 The conversion’s GDP contribution ....................................................... 15 
3.2 The conversion’s employment contribution ........................................... 16 
3.3 The conversion’s fiscal contribution ....................................................... 18 
4. Catalytic benefits of Drax Power Station’s conversion ................................. 19 
4.1 Port investments .................................................................................... 19 
4.2 Freight capacity ...................................................................................... 21 
4.3 The total economic impact of partners’ investments.............................. 22 
5. Conclusion..................................................................................................... 23 
 
 
 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
Drax Group is one of the UK’s largest energy companies. It has three 
principal activities: electricity generation, electricity sales to business 
customers, and processing compressed wood pellets for use in electricity 
production. 
Drax Group has, in recent years, converted and upgraded half of the Drax 
Power Station in North Yorkshire—its key asset—to use compressed 
wood pellets instead of coal. In doing so, it has achieved carbon savings of 
over 80 percent compared to coal and has become the UK’s single largest 
source of renewable power. In the first half of 2016, 20 percent of the UK’s 
renewable electricity came from Drax’s biomass units. 
Drax Power Station is the largest power station in the UK, supplying 
enough electricity for six million homes. Upgrading three of its units to 
biomass has enabled those units to continue to generate secure, reliable and 
affordable electricity at a time when other coal power stations across the UK 
are facing closure. 
As well as generating electricity, Drax Group also makes an important 
economic contribution to the Yorkshire and the Humber, and the UK more 
widely. Its pioneering project to become a primarily biomass-fuelled generator 
has been underpinned by significant investment in the power station and new 
freight logistics and infrastructure across the North of England. 
This report quantifies Drax Group’s economic contribution by exploring: 
(1) The on-going economic value generated by Drax Group through its 
production and supply of electricity. 
(2) The economic impact of the work undertaken to convert three of Drax’s 
generating units from coal to biomass.  
(3) The economic benefits of the investments made by Drax Group’s 
partners, such as port and freight operators, in the UK’s biomass 
supply chain.  
THE IMPACT OF DRAX GROUP’S OPERATIONS IN 2015 
Drax Group creates economic value directly, through its production and 
supply of electricity. Its direct GDP contribution in 2015, broadly equivalent to 
the sum of its wages and gross profits, reached £284 million. Drax employed 
almost 1,300 people directly to produce this impact.  
Drax’s economic impact increases to more than £1.2 billion when taking 
into consideration the activities in its supply chain and the wages that its 
staff (and supplier’s staff) spend in the wider consumer economy. Once 
these multiplier effects are accounted for, Drax Group is estimated to have 
supported a total of 14,150 jobs across Britain in 2015. Moreover, the activity 
and employment supported by the Group, once again including multiplier 
channels, generated over £430 million in tax revenues for the UK Exchequer.  
 
6 million 
 homes powered by Drax 
Power Station 
£1.2 billion  
GDP contribution in 2015 
 
Supporting 14,150 jobs 
 
THE IMPACT OF DRAX’S BIOMASS CONVERSION PROJECT 
Converting three of Drax’s six generation units to burn wood pellet fuel 
involved £365 million in capital expenditure in the UK by Drax Group, over 
a period of six years. These works included modifications to the generation 
units, as well as the construction of state-of-the-art facilities to receive and 
store biomass fuel, and implementing new control and safety apparatus. 
The conversion generated in excess of £430 million in GDP, when 
measured in 2016 prices, and supported over 7,000 annual jobs.1 During this 
programme, a commitment to local suppliers and contractors meant almost half 
the total GDP and jobs impact was retained in the Yorkshire and Humber 
region. In addition, some £118 million in tax revenue, again measured in 
today’s prices, was generated over the six-year process. 
INVESTMENT BY DRAX’S PARTNERS IN UK BIOMASS SUPPLY CHAIN 
The conversion required the development of an entirely new 
infrastructure, creating wealth and jobs. Drax and its partners—the Port of 
Tyne, the Port of Liverpool, the Humber ports of Immingham and Hull, DB 
Cargo UK and GB Railfreight —together developed a large, specialised freight 
and logistics infrastructure dedicated to the import, storage and delivery of 
wood pellet fuel. Port operators, freight service providers and rail wagon 
manufacturers all undertook work linked to the biomass conversion.  
In the eight years to 2016, these capital investments contributed almost 
£280 million to UK GDP, measured in 2016 prices. They also supported 
around 4,400 annual jobs. Beyond the construction phase, this biomass 
infrastructure now supports a range of permanent jobs, from operations at the 
port facilities to the provision of logistics services for biomass cargo.  
THE TOTAL ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION OF DRAX 
Through the investments of both Drax Group and its partners, the 
conversion process has given rise to more than £710 million in GDP since 
2009, when measured in today’s prices. These ambitious engineering 
projects have driven huge demand and supported thousands of jobs in many 
industries and communities in Yorkshire and northern England, during what 
have been challenging times for many heavy industrial sectors.  
Drax’s conversion is environmentally and strategically very significant. 
As a result, a historically coal-based asset is now driven predominantly by 
biomass, delivering enormous environmental advantages, with a dependability 
and predictability that is beyond other sustainable resources. This asset has 
important strategic value for a national energy system that is under a longer-
term process of decarbonisation, and confronting the possibility of a capacity 
crunch over the coming years. While these advantages are not quantified here, 
they undoubtedly have economic value. As such, the true benefits of the 
conversion are very likely even greater than the figures discussed in this report.  
                                                      
1 One annual job refers to the employment of one person for one calendar year. 
£710 million  
in GDP from biomass 
conversion investments 
 
Encompassing projects by 
Drax Group and four Ports 
(Tyne, Liverpool, 
Immingham, Hull) 
 
1. INTRODUCTION 
1.1 THE UK’S ENERGY LANDSCAPE 
Britain is committed to reducing its greenhouse gas emissions by 34 percent 
(relative to 1990 levels), and to producing 15 percent of its energy from 
renewable sources by 2020. In pursuit of this aim, the UK Government 
announced earlier this year its intention to take coal generation off the system 
completely by 2025. Many coal-fired power plants have already closed well 
ahead of this target due to difficult economic conditions and new environmental 
regulations. 
While coal use has trended downwards for many years, completing this 
phasing out will still be challenging. Electricity from coal remains a significant 
component of Britain’s energy mix: coal-fired plants contributed 23 percent of 
total electricity generation in the UK during 2015. Furthermore, coal stations 
have historically provided a number of important support services to National 
Grid, including system balancing, frequency response and black start. These 
services are currently worth £1 billion to the UK grid and are estimated to rise 
to £2 billion by 20202. 
Given the overarching goal of decarbonisation, coal use must be curtailed. But 
clearly, replacement generation capacity will be needed over the coming years.  
While a growing share of renewable sources will form part of the solution, 
technologies such as solar PV and wind power are intermittent in nature. Their 
power output cannot be delivered exactly on demand to meet users’ 
requirements. This means that other complementary sources of dependable, 
dispatchable and renewable power are crucial if the UK’s energy infrastructure 
is to continue meeting the needs of households and industrial users. 
Biomass generation is one technology that meets these criteria. Moreover, the 
conversion of coal power stations to burn biomass fuels can provide continued 
productive use for some of the UK’s existing coal assets. This is a considerable 
advantage at a time when relatively little additional capacity is under 
construction. 
1.2 DRAX POWER STATION 
Drax Power Station opened in two phases in 1974 and 1986 and remains the 
largest electricity generator in the UK, providing sufficient electricity to meet the 
needs of six million homes. Given this scale, it is a strategically important 
power asset for Yorkshire as well as for the wider UK.  
Following a decade of research and development, Drax Group’s current focus 
is to transform the power station into a predominantly biomass-fuelled 
generator. By 2016 this goal had been achieved, following the conversion and 
upgrade of three of the station’s six units from coal to compressed wood 
pellets. Reducing the plant’s reliance on coal and expanding into renewables 
                                                      
2 "Balancing demand 'could cost National Grid £2bn’," The Telegraph, 27 June 2016 
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/business/2016/06/26/balancing-demand-could-cost-national-grid-2bn/ [accessed 2 September 2016]   
 
was a huge undertaking. It required complex modifications to the power plant, 
as well as the development of an entire infrastructure to manufacture, store and 
deliver the wood pellet fuels to the Drax site in Selby, North Yorkshire. 
1.3 DRAX GROUP 
Drax Group commissioned Oxford Economics to investigate its economic 
impact in the UK.3 While Drax Power Station is Drax Group’s key asset and 
accounts for the bulk of the Group’s economic footprint, the Group’s activities 
today include more than just wholesale power generation. This report also 
considers the economic impact of:  
 
Haven Power, the Group’s retail arm based in Ipswich, which serves 
the electricity needs of a growing number of SMEs, large business and 
organisations; 
 
Billington Bioenergy, which supplies a growing base of UK customers 
who heat their homes and businesses with sustainable wood pellets 
rather than fossil fuels. 
This study seeks to quantify Drax Group’s economic impact in the UK by 
approaching it from three distinct and separate perspectives: 
(1) examining the benefits, in terms of GDP and jobs, arising from its 
power generation activities in 2015; 
(2) measuring the economic impact of the investment programme that was 
carried out to transform Drax into a biomass-fuelled generator; 
and, 
(3) estimate the wider ‘catalytic’ impacts of Drax’s biomass 
conversion. These encompass the economic activities attributable to 
the conversion, but which took place outside of Drax Group itself. 
1.4 OUR APPROACH 
Oxford Economics assessed the economic benefits of Drax Group using a 
standard means of analysis, called an economic impact assessment. This 
approach is applied in each of the three stages of the study. 
Within each of these modules, three ‘core’ channels of impact are considered: 
termed the direct, indirect and induced impact. These can be understood as 
follows: 
 
Its direct impact relates to the Group’s own activities, such as the GDP 
it generates and its direct employment. When assessing the impact of 
investment (as in the latter two areas of the study) the direct impact 
describes the output and jobs supported among firms directly 
contracted to deliver the investment programmes. This includes 
construction, as well as the businesses providing other inputs such as 
manufactured goods, transportation and technical services; 
                                                      
3 The economic impact of Drax Biomass Inc., Drax’s subsidiary based in the United States, falls outside the remit of this study. 
 
 
Its indirect impact encapsulates the activity and employment supported 
in the Group’s, or contractors’ supply chains as a result of their 
procurement of goods and services; and, 
 
Its induced impact, comprising the wider economic benefits that arise 
when employees within the Group and contractors, and their supply 
chain spend their earnings, for example in local retail and leisure 
establishments. 
These economic impacts can be measured in one of three ways: 
 
GDP, or more specifically, the Group’s gross value added (GVA) 
contribution to GDP; 
 
Employment meaning the number of people employed, measured on a 
headcount basis; and, 
 
Tax revenue, the estimated fiscal contribution resulting from corporate 
activity and employment sustained by the Group. 
The calculations undertaken to quantify these impacts draw upon data supplied 
by Drax Group and its partner organisations. The modelling is conducted using 
an Input-Output (I-O) based model of the UK economy, and regional modules 
describing the economies of its constituent nations and regions. This model 
was constructed by Oxford Economics, using macroeconomic, employment 
and tax data published by the Office for National Statistics (ONS) and HMRC. 
Fig. 1: The channels of Drax Group’s economic impact 
 
 
 
Direct Impact
Drax Group’s operations
Drax Group’s biomass 
conversion investment
Indirect Impact
Purchases of inputs
from suppliers
Suppliers’ own
supply chains
Induced Impact
Consumer spending
out of
employees’ wages:
Food and beverages
Recreation
Clothing
Household goods
Total Impact
Value-added
Employment
Government revenue
Purchases made from overseas suppliers (leakage from the UK economy)
 
2. THE IMPACT OF DRAX GROUP’S 
OPERATIONS 
2.1 DIRECT IMPACT OF DRAX GROUP 
In 2015, Drax Group’s consolidated revenue was over £3 billion as it supplied 
around eight percent of the UK’s electricity. Its earnings before interest, 
taxation, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) was £169 million. Whilst both 
these measures are standard indicators of a business’s performance, they do 
not capture the true economic impact of the Group on the UK. Instead, the 
contribution any business makes to a country’s economy can be measured by 
its gross value added (GVA) contribution to GDP. A commonly used method for 
calculating a company’s GVA is by adding the incomes different parts of the 
economy (primarily labour and owners of capital) derive from the firm’s 
activities. In the case of Drax Group, the contribution it makes to UK GDP is the 
combination of its consolidated UK-based profit and the wage and salary 
payments the Group makes to its employees in the UK. 
Using this measure Drax Group contributed £284 million to UK GDP in 2015. 
The vast majority—£277 million—of this was located in the Yorkshire and 
Humber region, where the bulk of the Group’s operations are located. The 
region is home to 932 of the Group’s 1,298 UK employees. 
However, other regions also directly benefited from the Group’s operations. 
The activities of Haven Power contributed over £7 million to the East of 
England economy, and supported 328 jobs in the region. Similarly, Billington 
Bioenergy’s facility in Liverpool led to a small direct contribution to the North 
West economy and supported 25 jobs there. Fig. 2 provides a breakdown of 
these impacts. 
Fig. 2: Distribution of Drax Group’s direct impact in 2015 
 
 
277
7
932
328
284 
1,298
0
200
400
600
800
1,000
1,200
1,400
272
274
276
278
280
282
284
286
GDP contribution
Employment
Yorkshire & Humber
East of England
North West
London
Source: Oxford Economics
Totals may not sum due to rounding
£m
Jobs
 
The Group’s operations also directly benefit the finances of the UK 
government. Taxes levied on its activities—such as corporation tax, business 
rates, carbon costs and the Waste Levy—delivered a fiscal contribution of £77 
million for the Exchequer in 2015. A further £31 million raised through 
employee Income Tax and National Insurance Contributions took the Group’s 
direct contribution to UK government revenues to £108 million. 
2.2 INDIRECT IMPACT OF DRAX GROUP 
In addition to this direct impact, the Group’s operations create wider impacts 
that ripple through the rest of the economy. In the first instance, these emerge 
through the purchases it makes from its suppliers. These purchases support 
GDP and jobs among those suppliers, and also transmit demand throughout 
their own supply chains, an effect known as Drax Group’s indirect impact.  
Our calculation of this impact uses a model that maps the links between 
sectors throughout the UK’s regional and national economies. By combining 
this model with data on the purchases Drax Group makes from domestic 
suppliers, we calculate the scale and spatial distribution of Drax’s entire supply 
chain in the UK.  
The value of Drax Group’s spending with its suppliers exceeded £1.8 billion in 
2015.4 Over £900 million, roughly half of this amount, was spent on 
suppliers in the UK, with over a third of this sum accounted for by suppliers 
based in Yorkshire and the Humber. Purchases within this region included four-
fifths of Drax’s domestic coal supplies, as well as tens of millions of pounds 
spent with engineering and construction contractors, suppliers of technical 
machinery and components, transportation operators and business services 
providers. A further £300 million was spent in the East of England, where 
Haven Power is based. 
As illustrated by Fig. 3, all UK regions and nations accounted for some of the 
Group’s immediate suppliers, with Northern Ireland receiving the smallest 
portion of the Group’s spend. 
 
                                                      
4 This figure excludes the cost of power buy backs, and spending by the Group’s USA operations. 
 
Fig. 3: Drax Group's procurement, by region, 2015 
 
As is typical for an energy business of its scale, Drax procures a broad range of 
good and services from UK suppliers. These include: 
 
Mining: The UK coal industry played a significant part in Drax’s coal 
procurement in 2015, accounting for 46% of total coal usage at the 
power station. 
 
Transport and logistics: Drax’s operations are underpinned by a 
sophisticated supply chain that has pushed the boundaries of British 
rail engineering. 
 
Manufacturing: The successful operation and maintenance of Drax 
Power Station requires thousands of purpose-built and designed 
industrial components. 
 
Business services: Drax works with a range of professional service 
providers, including independent auditing of their biomass 
sustainability. 
 
ICT: Drax Group and its subsidiaries are reliant on a complex network 
of IT systems and platforms for the day-to-day running of their 
businesses. 
Fig. 4. provides an illustrative breakdown of sector-by-sector spend.  
 
 
 
Fig. 4: Drax Group’s UK procurement in 2015, by sector 
 
SUPPLY CHAIN IN PRACTICE: WH DAVIS 
WH Davis was originally formed in 1910, initially as a repairer and later a manufacturer of 
wooden-bodied mineral wagons. It is now the last independent British freight wagon 
manufacturer, with workshops located just off the M1 motorway near Mansfield, 
Nottinghamshire. WH Davis currently employs 150 staff, including about 50 at its subsidiary 
business, Davis Wagon Services, based in Immingham, Lincolnshire. 
In 2012, Drax entered into a partnership with WH Davis and Lloyds Register London to 
design and manufacture specially designed biomass rail freight wagons to transport 
compressed wood pellets to Drax Power Station. Together the companies have pushed the 
boundaries of rail engineering, using innovative design techniques and modern technology to 
create a rail wagon 30% larger than anything else operating on the UK rail network. 
225 wagons have been produced by WH Davis for Drax thus far, representing one of the 
most significant projects for the company in recent years. According to Mark Jackson, 
Managing Director of the company, “The Drax contract has been very important to us as a 
business. In 2015 alone, the production of the biomass wagons required around 1,500 
man-weeks of work. It also provided a boost for our supply chain, such as our steel 
profile supplier based in Rotherham. The ongoing servicing of the wagons employs 
eight full-time employees, with another 15 indirectly supporting it.” 
By purchasing from UK suppliers, Drax also stimulates economic activity in 
those businesses and along their respective supply chains. For example, an 
engineering firm working for Drax may source tools or parts from other UK 
suppliers or use the expertise of a sub-contractor. Taking these impacts into 
consideration, the purchases made by the Group supported an estimated 
value-added contribution to the UK economy of £650 million in 2015. This 
also supported employment to the tune of 7,700 jobs in 2015.  
Two regions—East of England, and Yorkshire and Humber—accounted for 
nearly half of the GDP contribution derived from the Group’s UK spending. Fig. 
380
212
123
101
44
32
Power
Mining
Transport & Logistics
Manufacturing
Business Services
Construction
ICT
Finance
Agriculture
Other
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
Source: Oxford Economics
£m
 
5 breaks down how the supply chain impact in 2015 was felt across the UK’s 
nations and regions.  
Fig. 5: Regional distribution of Drax Group's indirect impact, 2015 
 
 
The activity supported in Drax Group’s supply chain also contributed revenue to 
the UK government. Businesses in its supply chain are liable to corporation tax 
and other taxes on production and products. Equally, the people employed in 
these businesses pay income tax and National Insurance Contributions. 
Considering all of these taxes, we estimate the Group’s UK supply chain 
activities raised almost £220 million for the Exchequer in 2015. 
2.3 INDUCED IMPACT OF DRAX GROUP 
The spending of people working for Drax Group, or in its supply chain, forms 
the final channel through which it influences the UK economy. Employees will 
make purchases at retail and leisure outlets throughout the UK. These 
24%
23%
14%
9%
6%
4%
4%
4%
4%
3%3%2%
Yorkshire & Humber
East of England
Scotland
North East
East Midlands
North West
London
West Midlands
South East
South West
Wales
Northern Ireland
Source: Oxford Economics
Contribution to GDP
30%
6%
16%
10%
9%
6%
4%
5%
4%
3%4%3%
Yorkshire & Humber
East of England
Scotland
North East
East Midlands
North West
London
West Midlands
South East
South West
Wales
Northern Ireland
Source: Oxford Economics
Contribution to employment
 
purchases will generate further activity in these sectors’ supply chains, adding 
value, sustaining employment and raising tax revenues.  
We estimate that the wage-financed spending of the people employed 
directly and indirectly by Drax Group across the UK in 2015 supported a 
value-added contribution to UK GDP of £310 million. This activity is 
estimated to have sustained a further 5,100 jobs in the UK, and generated 
nearly £105 million for the Exchequer. 
2.4 TOTAL CONTRIBUTION OF DRAX GROUP 
The total economic impact of Drax Group is the sum of the direct, indirect and 
induced impacts. Combining the three channels of impact means the Group 
made a total value-added contribution to the UK economy of over £1.2 
billion in 2015. 
The Group sustained 14,150 jobs in 2015. Given the capital-intensive nature 
of the Group’s operations, and its high productivity, the employment it 
supported represented a smaller share of total employment in the UK than its 
share of GDP. Nonetheless, one in every 2,300 jobs in the UK is attributable to 
Drax Group’s operations in 2015. 
The activity and employment supported by the Group generated a considerable 
amount in tax revenue for the UK Exchequer. Drax Group’s operations 
raised an estimated £430 million in tax revenue. This is equivalent to the 
annual salaries of nearly 16,500 nurses or 12,900 teachers. 
Nearly two-thirds of the Group’s impact is the result of Drax Power’s activities. 
The operations of Haven Power account for the majority of the remainder, with 
Billington Bioenergy also making a contribution. 
Fig. 6: Total Drax Group impact in 2015, by entity 
 
With the group predominantly based in Selby, unsurprisingly the Yorkshire and 
Humber region is the prime beneficiary of Drax Group’s operations. Some 40 
percent of the GDP created, and almost a third of the employment sustained by 
751
490
4
8,050
6,050
80
1,245 
14,150
0
2,000
4,000
6,000
8,000
10,000
12,000
14,000
16,000
0
200
400
600
800
1,000
1,200
1,400
GDP contribution
Employment
Drax Power
Haven Power
Billington
Source: Oxford Economics
Note: numbers may not sum due to rounding
£mn
Jobs
 
the Group’s operations was located in the region. Consequently, the Group’s 
impact accounted for nearly 0.5 percent of the region’s economy and 0.2 
percent of its employment. 
The UK’s other regions benefit from Drax Group too. About 15 percent of the 
Group’s GDP contribution was located in the East of England. Moreover, nearly 
0.2 percent of the North East economy is attributable to the Group’s operations. 
Fig. 7: Drax Group's total impact across the UK, 2015 
 
                   GDP contribution 
      
                              Employment contribution 
 
 
3. THE IMPACT OF DRAX POWER 
STATION’S BIOMASS CONVERSION 
The impact of Drax Group on the UK economy extends beyond that which 
emerges from its day-to-day activities, explored in Chapter 2. This chapter 
quantifies the economic contribution that resulted from upgrading and 
converting three of its six generating units to biomass. 
This decarbonisation project has to date spanned a six-year investment 
programme, totalling £365 million of capital expenditure by Drax Group in the 
UK. Works included modifications to the power plant, the development and 
installation of new control and safety systems, and the construction of state-of-
the-art facilities to receive and store huge volumes of wood pellets.  
3.1 THE CONVERSION’S GDP CONTRIBUTION 
Over the years 2011 to 2016, the conversion works generated a cumulative 
£433 million in GDP throughout the UK economy, measured in constant 2016 
prices. Fig. 8 provides an estimated breakdown of the project’s direct, indirect 
and induced impacts on a yearly basis. 
Fig. 8: GDP contribution of Drax Power Station's biomass conversion, 
2011-2016 
 
The impact has been concentrated heavily in the Yorkshire and the Humber 
region, due to the significant role played by local suppliers throughout the 
investment programme. About three-quarters of all Drax Group’s capital 
spending accrued to contractors based in the Yorkshire region, including 
important suppliers such as Spencer, Clyde Bergemann and Diamond Power. 
Fig. 9 illustrates this regional spread. 
77
49
17
73
47
17
62
42
15
6
211
138
49
28
1
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
0
50
100
150
200
250
Direct
Indirect
Induced
Source: Oxford Economics
£m, 2016 prices
 
Fig. 9: Cumulative GDP contribution of Drax Power Station's biomass 
conversion, by region, 2011-16 
 
These local sourcing decisions lead to Yorkshire and the Humber accruing just 
under half (47 percent) of the investment’s entire GDP impact. This 
equates to over £200 million when measured in 2016 prices. 
3.2 THE CONVERSION’S EMPLOYMENT CONTRIBUTION 
This scale of economic activity, concentrated over the few years during which 
the works took place, created sizeable demand for labour. Excluding any of 
Drax Group’s own workers whose time was devoted to the project, the 
conversion supported over 7,000 annual jobs through the three channels of 
impact.5 Fig. 10 provides an illustrative breakdown of these employment 
opportunities on a year-by-year basis. 
                                                      
5 One annual job refers to the employment of one person for one calendar year. The count of jobs supported in each year are 
summed, and discussed in aggregate. This is due to the unequal distribution of the employment impact. For example, annual 
averages would be skewed by data from 2011 and 2016, where very few jobs were supported.  
203
44
29
27
24
19
17
16
15
15
13
12
Yorkshire & Humber
East Mids
South East
North West
Scotland
South West
London
East
West Mids
North East
Wales
N Ireland
0
50
100
150
200
250
Source: Oxford Economics
£m, 2016 prices
 
Fig. 10: Employment supported by Drax Power Station's biomass 
conversion, 2011-2016 
 
Due to the complexity and scale of the conversion project, much of the 
employment impact was felt within industrial sectors. This means that a large 
proportion of the jobs supported by the conversion comprised capital-intensive 
and highly productive work. Almost half of the impact (49 percent of annual 
jobs) occurred within the construction, manufacturing and transport industries.  
When examining how these jobs were distributed across the UK, it is clear that 
again Yorkshire and the Humber enjoyed the lion’s share of the conversion’s 
employment benefits. Almost 3,500 annual jobs were supported here, 
equivalent to an average of 580 workers per year. Fig. 11 provides a detailed 
breakdown of jobs supported on a region-by-region basis. 
Fig. 11: Annual jobs supported by Drax Power Station’s biomass 
conversion, by region, 2011-2016 
 
1,150
750
250
1,250
800
300
1,050
700
250
100
3,450
2,250
800
450
15
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
0
500
1,000
1,500
2,000
2,500
3,000
3,500
4,000
Direct
Indirect
Induced
Source: Oxford Economics
Persons
3,450
700
500
350
350
300
250
250
250
250
200
150
Yorkshire & Humber
East Mids
North West
South East
Scotland
South West
West Mids
East
North East
Wales
N Ireland
London
0
500
1,000
1,500
2,000
2,500
3,000
3,500
4,000
Source: Oxford Economics
Annual jobs
 
3.3 THE CONVERSION’S FISCAL CONTRIBUTION 
The conversion can be thought of as an economic stimulus, involving both local 
production and further activity within supply chains stretching across the UK 
and beyond.  
This production yields tax revenues through many different channels. One is 
the corporation tax on company profits attributable to the work. Another 
includes the income tax and National Insurance payments, collected on behalf 
of the workers whose jobs were supported by the programme during this 
period. Moreover, the wage-financed consumption of these workers generates 
product taxes such as VAT.  
In total, the conversion’s contributed £118 million in tax revenues to the 
Exchequer, when measured in constant 2016 prices. By way of comparison, 
these revenues are equivalent to the annual salaries of 3,000 police officers, or 
1,800 doctors.  
 
4. CATALYTIC BENEFITS OF DRAX 
POWER STATION’S CONVERSION 
Chapter 3 quantified how Drax Group’s own investments for the conversion 
impacted upon the UK’s national and regional economies. However, restricting 
the scope of our analysis to the investment funded or executed by Drax Group 
would amount to a partial picture of its economic impact. 
This is because the conversion required the development of an expansive, 
specialised freight and logistics infrastructure dedicated to the import, storage 
and delivery of (primarily) compressed wood pellets. This infrastructure was not 
built by Drax Group alone, but rather in concert with partners such as port 
operators, freight service providers and wagon suppliers. As such, many other 
companies also undertook considerable investments attributable to Drax’s 
decarbonisation. 
This chapter will explore the economic impact of the investments in biomass 
import infrastructure carried out by the Port of Tyne, the Port of Liverpool, and 
the Humber ports of Immingham and Hull. Each of these investments involved 
large capital expenditure, requiring extensive manpower and generating a 
significant economic footprint.6 It will also consider economic activity supported 
within the freight providers GB Railfreight and DB Cargo, who manage the 
delivery of biomass from these ports to the Drax Power Station in Selby. 
4.1 PORT INVESTMENTS 
Handling biomass shipments requires the development of highly specialised 
structures and equipment. The material must be kept dry at all times from its 
unloading from ships, to its distribution into silo storage, and its loading into rail 
wagons that also must be securely covered. Wood pellets are also fragile, with 
careless handling creating excessive dust, degrading its quality and increasing 
the risk of combustion. These factors mean building the necessary port 
infrastructure is a highly complex technical task, requiring dedicated equipment, 
skilled labour and expertise.  
This section outlines how such resources were deployed throughout northern 
England in support of Drax’s decarbonisation process. 
4.1.1 Port of Tyne 
Port of Tyne began its preparations to receive biomass shipments in 2009, after 
entering a long-term agreement with Drax. As an existing partner of Drax, and 
with much of power plant’s coal imports passing through its facilities, the Port of 
Tyne was well placed to meet the demand for biomass emerging through 
Drax’s conversion. 
                                                      
6 In this chapter, the catalytic economic impact will be presented in aggregate (i.e. including all companies) due to potential 
commercial sensitivity. They are also only presented at a national level, due to unavailability of regional-level data associated 
with these investment programmes. 
 
Some £16 million was invested to construct a biomass handling facility 
equipped to process two million tonnes per year, with rail loading capacity. In 
addition, dredging works were undertaken to deepen water in its berths for the 
larger vessels delivering biomass.  
The first wood pellet vessel arrived at Port of Tyne in September 2010, and in 
the time since they have handled over six million tonnes of the fuel. This has 
supported activity at the Port against a backdrop of increasingly challenging 
market conditions for coal.  
The revenues contributed by biomass have also helped to underpin further 
investments at the Port (both biomass-related and otherwise), which may not 
have been financially viable without the business driven by Drax’s demand for 
wood fibre sustainably sourced from abroad. These are future opportunities 
that will leverage the experiences built up through their partnership with Drax. 
4.1.2 Port of Liverpool 
In mid-2015, the Port of Liverpool kicked off a £100 million investment 
programme, aimed at eventually equipping the port to tranship three million 
tonnes of biomass fuel per year.  
This programme includes a biomass terminal, specialised ship unloading 
equipment, as well as additional warehouse capacity, which will be used for 
biomass storage while dedicated silos are developed. The capital programme 
is estimated to have created 500 construction jobs, and the operation of the 
terminal itself will support over 60 direct and indirect jobs, on an ongoing basis.  
The Port of Liverpool’s biomass investments also involve upgrades to its road 
and rail infrastructure. These upgrades, aimed at enabling rail deliveries of 
biomass to Drax’s site in Selby, will also support the Port’s general shift of 
focus away from road transport, in favour of rail. This is expected to enhance 
the resilience of and efficiency at the Port, while also easing pressure on the 
local road network. 
4.1.3 Humber Ports 
The Humber ports at Immingham and Hull have also developed biomass 
handling capability and infrastructure in recent years. The first part of a £150 
million biomass investment scheme was the construction of a specialised rail 
loading facility at Hull, which opened in late 2014. This is capable of processing 
up to one million tonnes of biomass per year. 
Across the Humber, the Immingham Renewable Fuels Terminal is due to be 
completed later in 2016. This fully-automated terminal can receive six million 
tonnes of biomass imports per year, and features ship unloaders, over one 
kilometre of conveyors, four storage silos, and rail and road unloading facilities. 
Hundreds of jobs were directly supported during construction, including many 
among local suppliers and contractors.  
Drax’s conversion has underpinned these investments, with their demand for 
imported wood pellets helping both Humber Ports manage the declining coal 
volumes. Drax’s partnership with the Ports also delivers additional benefits, 
with both parties sharing of best practise on technical issues regarding wood 
pellet handling, and health and safety questions. The long-term nature of the 
 
partnership and Drax’s dependable demand for biomass also provides certainty 
for the port authority Associated British Ports, allowing them to develop forward 
strategy with an additional degree of certainty.  
4.2 FREIGHT CAPACITY 
While the port facilities are an essential element of northern England’s biomass 
infrastructure, another crucial requirement is having the capacity to deliver the 
wood pellet cargo inland to the generators. This section outlines the role of two 
freight service providers in delivering this capacity, with a particular focus on 
how Drax’s operations have facilitated some of their economic contributions to 
the UK.  
4.2.1 DB Cargo UK 
For many years, the backbone of DB Cargo’s UK business has been coal 
deliveries. However, with coal movements declining due to challenging market 
conditions, Drax’s decarbonisation presented an opportunity to invest in 
biomass haulage capabilities. This included hiring many new personnel, and 
training new drivers. 
The biomass services that DB Cargo runs between the Humber ports and the 
Drax site support full-time and well-remunerated employment for around 40 
people. In this way, the conversion has sustained jobs and income within local 
communities such as Knottingley and Immingham,7 many of which are adapting 
to the consequences of declines in the coal and steel industries. 
4.2.2 GB Railfreight 
GB Railfreight is another company that has seen Drax’s biomass volumes 
partially offset declines in its coal business. The partnership with Drax also 
provided certainty for them to invest millions in converting some of their own 
coal hoppers, for the haulage of biomass. At present, it is estimated that Drax’s 
partnership with GB Railfreight supports the employment of over 80 people 
including drivers and crew, planners and controllers. 
As more biomass is required to generate the same amount of electricity as 
coal, more freight must be delivered to the power station. More frequent train 
movements have heightened the importance of efficient scheduling and 
unloading. In partnership with the freight providers, Drax has implemented 
systems at its site to deliver this efficiency, including re-laying up to six miles of 
track to permit swifter passage for the trains.  
These efficiencies deliver wider benefits for the region’s rail system. Since 
Network Rail must synchronise freight trains between passenger services, any 
complications with freight movements have disruptive knock-on effects around 
the wider network. 
Drax also supports GB Railfreight’s training of new drivers, permitting trainee 
drivers to move wagons around the internal circuit on the Drax site. In this way, 
                                                      
7 These are locations of DB Cargo UK’s large depot facilities. 
 
Drax’s operations are supporting the development of valuable technical skills 
for some local workers. 
4.3 THE TOTAL ECONOMIC IMPACT OF PARTNERS’ INVESTMENTS 
Aggregating the aforementioned investments allows us to assess the scale of 
‘catalysed’ economic activity stimulated by Drax’s conversion to biomass.  
The results of this analysis are presented in Fig. 12. These headline figures 
encompass the investments of the ports, as well GB Railfreight’s capital 
spending to adapt coal hoppers for biomass cargo. The economic contributions 
emerging from the running of freight services themselves are not included here, 
since they are captured in the indirect impact discussed in Chapter 2.2. 
Fig. 12: Cumulative GVA and employment impact in the UK of catalysed 
investments, 2009-20168 
 
Over the eight years to 2016, the investments undertaken by Drax Group’s 
commercial partners in developing the UK’s biomass infrastructure 
contributed some £278 million to UK GDP, measured in 2016 prices.  
These investments also supported around 4,400 annual jobs, which is 
equivalent to average annual employment from 2009-2016 of 500 people. 
These jobs were not distributed evenly across all years, due to the ‘lumpy’ 
nature of the capital programmes. The programmes included within this 
analysis saw a peak employment impact of 1,700 jobs, during 2015.  
This scale of economic activity also produces tax revenues. Taxes on the 
transactions, profits and labour associated with these investments 
yielded an estimated £75 million in revenues for the Exchequer. 
                                                      
8 In this chapter, the catalytic economic impact will be presented in aggregate (i.e. including all companies) due to potential 
commercial sensitivity. They are also only presented at a national level, due to unavailability of regional-level data associated 
with these investment programmes. 
102
94
83
1,440
1,550
1,380
0
1,000
2,000
3,000
4,000
5,000
6,000
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
GVA
Employment
Direct
Indirect
Induced
Source: Oxford Economics
£m, 2016 prices
Annual jobs
 
5. CONCLUSION 
Drax Power Station is the UK’s single largest electricity generator, 
capable of meeting eight percent of the nation’s demand. The scale of this 
energy supply, sufficient to power six million homes, makes it an enormously 
important asset for the region and the UK.  
This demonstrates how the Drax site itself is an important economic 
centre, delivering benefits across the wider economy through its energy 
production. But the economic contribution of the station’s operator, Drax Group, 
extends far beyond this. In order to produce and sell electricity, the Group 
generates vast demand for inputs–from fuel to professional services–and thus 
sustains a vast supply chain, extending from Selby across Yorkshire, the UK 
and internationally. The production also contributes many millions of pounds in 
wage-financed spending, within local communities all over the nation. In total, 
its operations in 2015 gave rise to £1.2 billion in GDP and supported 14,150 
jobs.  
The economic benefits it delivers do not stop here, however. In pursuit of 
renewable and sustainable energy production, Drax Group undertook a 
massive investment programme to partially convert the power station to use 
compressed wood pellets instead of coal. It also co-operated with partner 
organisations across northern England, to collectively put in place the 
necessary infrastructure to import and transfer biomass cargo to its site in 
Yorkshire. In recent years these works have cumulatively added £710 million to 
UK GDP and sustained 11,400 annual jobs.  
The economic value of Drax’s dependable, dispatchable electricity is 
magnified in light of the challenges facing the UK’s energy system. The 
Government has signalled its intention to phase out coal generation by 2025, 
and insufficient additional generation capacity is under construction. 
Intermittent renewable technologies like wind and solar PV are not by 
themselves capable of covering potential future shortfalls. Whereas Drax, 
powered predominantly by sustainable biomass fuel, remains able to supply 
wholesale electricity on demand, at a nationally-significant scale.  
In this way, Drax has a crucial role to play in delivering a UK energy mix 
that is affordable, dependable and sustainable. It is a proven asset, using 
proven technology, to support the UK in moving towards a low-carbon 
economy. While we do not quantify these benefits in monetary terms, these 
features must be taken into account to gain a comprehensive appreciation of 
Drax’s economic importance.  
 
24 
 
 
