 
SECTION 172 STATEMENT 
 
 
Drax Finco plc 
Companies Act, Section 172 statement 
The Directors have a duty to promote the success of the Company, having regard to a range of matters and 
stakeholders. The Board is responsible for ensuring effective engagement with stakeholders and recognises that 
decisions taken today will have an impact upon stakeholders, as well as shape the longer-term performance of 
the business. Appropriate consideration is important in enabling Drax to deliver positive outcomes for the 
climate, nature and people, and to deliver sustainable value creation. 
Examples of how the Board have had regard to the matters set out in Section 172 are set out below. 
Comprehensive details in respect of stakeholders identified across the Drax Group plc group (“Group”), and how 
we engage with them and have regard to their interests, can be found on pages 26 to 33 in the 2022 Drax Group 
plc Annual Report and Accounts. 
The likely consequences of any decision in the long term 
Our purpose is to enable a zero carbon, lower cost energy future. With multi-year time horizons for many of our 
strategic and investment decisions, we recognise that these decisions can have an impact far beyond our 
business and well into the future. The Company plays a crucial role in providing appropriate financing to support 
the long-term strategy of the Drax Group: to be a global leader in sustainable biomass pellets; to be a global 
leader in carbon removals; and to be a UK leader in dispatchable, renewable power. 
The need to foster the Company’s business relationships  
Investors 
We have an ongoing programme of investor relations meetings led by the Drax Group Investor Relations team. 
As part of that programme, we engage with investors in respect of any upcoming bond issuance. Engagement is 
typically via a roadshow format, either one-to-one or with small groups of investors so we can discuss our 
ambitions and understand investor’s concerns and priorities. 
Suppliers 
Our relationships with relevant suppliers are governed by contracts that include the requirement to comply with 
relevant regulatory and legal requirements including anti-bribery, corruption and modern slavery regulations, 
and comply with our supplier code of conduct. These minimum standards are regularly reviewed by our 
Procurement, Legal, and Business Ethics functions. The Group has also signed up to the Prompt Payment Code, 
and monitors performance to both continue to improve payment performance and maintain positive supplier 
relationships. 
The desirability of the Company maintaining a reputation for high standards of business 
conduct 
At Drax, we are committed to conducting business ethically, with honesty and integrity, and in compliance with 
all relevant laws and regulations. We do not tolerate any form of bribery, corruption, human rights abuse, or 
other unethical business conduct. 
 
SECTION 172 STATEMENT 
 
 
 
 
The need to act fairly as between members of the Company 
Our ultimate parent company is Drax Group plc and therefore we act in the best interests of our immediate and 
ultimate parent companies and, in doing so, in the best interest of the investors and shareholders of the Drax 
Group. This ensures that the interests of all relevant stakeholders, and the need to act fairly between members 
of the Company, are considered during decision-making. 
This statement was approved by the Board on 21 June 2023 as part of the Company’s 2022 Annual Report and 
Accounts. 
