 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deployment of bio-CCS: case study 
on bioelectricity 
Drax Power Station, United Kingdom 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Contribution of IEA Bioenergy Task 45 to the inter-task project Deployment of 
bio-CCUS value chains 
May 2021 
 xxxx: xx 
 
 
 
IEA Bioenergy: Task XX 
Month Year 
 xxxx: xx 
 
May 
 
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Copyright © 2021 IEA Bioenergy. All rights Reserved 
 
Published by IEA Bioenergy 
 
 
 
 
The IEA Bioenergy Technology Collaboration Programme (TCP) is organised under the auspices of the International Energy Agency (IEA) but is functionally and legally autonomous. 
Views, findings and publications of the IEA Bioenergy TCP do not necessarily represent the views or policies of the IEA Secretariat or its individual member countries 
 
 
Deployment of bio-CCS: case study on bioelectricity 
Drax Power Station, Drax, UK 
 
Author: Zoe M Harris, Imperial College London & IEA Bioenergy Task 45 
Editor: Olle Olsson, Stockholm Environment Institute & IEA Bioenergy Task 40 
 
 
 
 
 
Title of publication 
Subtitle of publication 
 
Authors and / or acknowledgements here 
Edited by 
 
 
 
Contribution of IEA Bioenergy Task 45 to the IEA Bioenergy inter-task project Deployment of bio-
CCUS value chains 
May 2021 
 
 
 
      
 
Preface 
Substantial amounts of negative emissions may be required if global climate change is to be 
limited to well-below 2°C above pre-industrial levels, as is the ambition of the 2015 Paris 
Climate Agreement. Among the different negative emissions options available, bioenergy with 
carbon capture and storage, also referred to as bio-CCS or BECCS, is arguably one of the most 
commonly discussed in climate policy debates.  
Up until recently, bio-CCS was primarily discussed in terms of its potential and drawbacks over 
very long timeframes, e.g., 2050 and beyond, but there is now growing focus on more near-
term aspects. The IEA Bioenergy inter-task project Deployment of BECCS/U value chains runs 
2019-2021 and strives to provide insights about the opportunities and challenges pertaining to 
taking BECCS from pilots to full-scale projects. To this end, the project puts focus not only on 
technological aspects but also on how BECCS business models could be set up and the role that 
public policy could play in enabling sustainable deployment of BECCS. Focus in the project is 
on the CO2 capture, transportation and storage phases of the supply chain. Upstream biomass 
feedstock supply systems are only touched upon very briefly, as these issues are analyzed to 
great detail in other IEA Bioenergy work.  
An important characteristic of BECCS is that it can be implemented in a broad range of sectors 
- basically any setting where there are biogenic emissions of CO2 available in sizeable 
quantities. This includes generation of heat and power in various contexts, but also industrial 
facilities like cement production, pulp & paper mills or ethanol plants. The specifics related to 
BECCS implementation can however vary quite substantially from sector to sector. This is partly 
because of differences in technological factors like CO2 concentrations, but also a result of how 
different sectors operate under widely varying commercial and regulatory conditions.  
This case study is part of a series of studies carried out under the Deployment of BECCS/U Value 
Chains project with the aim to highlight these sector-specific characteristics. The case studies 
provide deeper insights into the key aspects that come into play for companies that are in the 
process of setting up value chains for capture, transportation and sequestration or utilization 
of biogenic CO2.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
 
 
Summary 
In the past decades, partial or full substitution of biomass for coal in power stations designed 
for the latter have been cost-efficient and fast strategies for utilities to reduce their use of 
fossil fuels, while being able to avoid stranding of assets. However, with trends towards 
decreased subsidy levels and a rapid reduction of costs of other renewables, bioelectricity faces 
challenging prospects when it comes to competing on power markets. 
In this context, the emerging interest in negative emissions in the form of bio-CCS could present 
a new market opportunity for biomass power stations. The largest currently in operation is Drax 
Power Station in northern England. Here, Drax operates more than 2.5 GW of generation 
capacity based on biomass in the form of wood pellets. With a stated ambition to become a 
carbon-negative company by 2030, Drax are in the process of investigating and piloting the 
setup of a bio-CCS value chain based on capturing CO2 from its four biomass-fired units.  
Drax has invested into two pilot projects aimed at increased understanding of how the capture 
process would be implemented in practice, one using a bespoke technology developed by a firm 
called C-Capture and one more “off-the-shelf” solution delivered by Mitsubishi Heavy 
Industries. Even though the scale of implementation at Drax would be well beyond what has 
hitherto been done with these technologies, Drax do not see any major technological obstacles 
to full-scale deployment of the CO2 capture phase of the full value chain.  
There are however a set of key building blocks that need to be in place to take the next step. 
First, there needs to be a transportation & storage infrastructure set up. Working towards this, 
Drax is collaborating with other actors in the Zero Carbon Humber initiative that aims to set up 
a CCUS cluster in the Humber region. Secondly, there needs to be a policy framework in place 
that allows revenue generation for companies that produce negative emissions. While Drax see 
that in the long-term, negative emissions would be incentivized through some sort of 
international emissions trading system, complementary systems - e.g., in the form of contracts-
for-difference - are needed in the short-term to initiate project deployment.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Acknowledgments 
We want to thank Drax for providing valuable information for this case study.  
 
 
 
 
4 
Contents 
1 
Introduction ........................................................................................................ 5 
1.1 
Coal-to-biomass power station conversions and CCS ........................................................ 5 
1.2 
Bio-CCS at Drax: Background .................................................................................... 5 
2 
About Drax and the project ..................................................................................... 6 
2.1 
Plant info and capture options ................................................................................. 6 
2.2 
Post-capture options ............................................................................................. 6 
3 
Moving to deployment? ........................................................................................... 8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5 
1 Introduction 
1.1 COAL-TO-BIOMASS POWER STATION CONVERSIONS AND CCS 
For several decades, the use of biomass-based fuels in power stations originally designed for coal has been 
a cost-efficient and fast way for utilities to reduce their use of fossil fuels, while still being able to utilize 
existing capital assets. Implementation of this approach has tended to be done in mainly two variants: co-
firing or conversion. In co-firing, the biomass fuel – typically wood pellets – is pulverized and combusted 
together with pulverized coal. Up to a wood pellet percentage of around 15%, this can be done with only 
minor additional investments in e.g., fuel handling systems. Conversion on the other hand requires more 
extensive investments but enables the use of 100% biomass.  
The repurposing of coal power stations for use with biomass as fuel has been implemented in many places 
around the world, including Brazil, the US and Japan, but Europe has arguably been at the center of this 
development (Roni et al. 2017). Rapidly decreasing costs of other forms of renewable electricity – especially 
wind & solar – and changed policy frameworks, has meant that both co-firing and conversion projects have 
begun to be of less interest to utilities in Europe. An important question moving forward is whether the 
added benefit of enabling negative emissions via CCS might change this development. 
Currently, there are about 20 power plant CCUS projects at various stages of development globally, with 
one in North America) operating commercially. However, no project in commercial operation is based on 
co-firing nor in coal power stations retrofitted for biomass. There is however one project that aims to do 
the latter. UK-based Drax operates a very large power station in northern England that over the recent 
decade has been converted from coal to biomass and is currently exploring opportunities to implement CCS 
at its facility.  
1.2  BIO-CCS AT DRAX: BACKGROUND 
Drax Group plc is a vertically integrated energy company. This means that in addition to its electricity 
generation business, Drax e.g., owns three pellet mills in the Southeastern United States as well as retail 
operations supplying energy to a range of commercial and industrial customers. As for its generation 
operations, Drax owns and operates  a portfolio of flexible low carbon and renewable electricity generation 
assets across Britain, which include pumped storage, hydro and energy-from-waste assets in Scotland. Its 
main generation site - Drax Power Station in North Yorkshire in England – is the UK’s largest power station 
supplying around 5% of the country’s electricity.  
Drax Power Station one of the largest power stations in Europe with a total generation capacity of almost 4 
GW and was originally constructed, and for many years operated as, a coal-fired power station. However, a 
series of investments beginning in 2013 have enabled it to use biomass instead of coal in four of its six 
boilers and Drax Power Station now produces around 11%% of the UK’s renewable electricity.  
Given the increased focus on the role of BECCS and negative emissions in reaching a net-zero target, and 
the fact that Drax has a well-developed biomass supply chain and the technical expertise required to develop 
capture technology, Drax has decided to invest heavily in the development of BECCS.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6 
 
2 About Drax and the project 
2.1 PLANT INFO AND CAPTURE OPTIONS 
As noted in section 1, in 2013 Drax began converting its coal-firing units into solely biomass-firing units and 
to date (late 2020), four of six 645MW units have been converted to biomass generation. The fuel for the 
four units is in the form of wood pellets primarily sourced from North America. Drax utilises a number of 
certification schemes to ensure sustainability for wood pellets, predominantly the Sustainable Biomass 
Program (SBP), which builds upon the Sustainable Forest Initiative (SFI), Forest Stewardship Council® 
(FSC®)1 and the Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC). In addition, Drax has its 
own sustainable biomass sourcing policy that is overseen by an independent advisory body of scientist and 
forestry experts.  
Since subsidies for biomass power generation in the UK are due to end in 2027 (BEIS 2020), Drax has focused 
on reducing the costs of its biomass by around a third to £50/MWh by 2027 to ensure it can continue to 
operate profitably after this date. Creating a long-term future for sustainable biomass enables the 
development of BECCS so Drax can meet its ambition to be carbon negative by 2030.  
Drax estimates that with  BECCS it could capture up to 4 Mtonne CO2 per year per Drax unit and that, subject 
to the right investment framework from the UK government, work to build the first two BECCS units could 
get underway in 2024, Drax would then be capturing up to 8MtCO21, more CO2 than is emitted, thereby make 
the company carbon negative by 2030. This means Drax could deliver 40% of the CCC’s 2050 BECCS power 
target by 2030. This can be compared to the 50-60 Mt estimated as necessary for the UK as a whole 
(Committee on Climate Change 2019; National Grid ESO 2020; Royal Society and Royal Academy of 
Engineering 2018). 
To date (late 2020), Drax has invested in two BECCS pilot projects. The first pilot project used a solvent 
developed by C-Capture to capture 1 tonne of CO2 per day during the pilot phase. Data obtained during this 
pilot is currently being analysed to understand the potential of the capture technology and how it can be 
scaled up at Drax (Drax 2020a). This particular solution is relatively bespoke and one of the primary 
challenges of this solution is working out how to scale up production of the solvent to reach the level 
required for a full scale BECCS unit.  
The second pilot has been up and running at Drax since late September 2020, running smoothly and capturing 
carbon. This project uses off-the-shelf technology from Mitsubishi Heavy Industries and is testing the 
viability of this established technology against biomass flue gases. Two solvents are being tested, KS-1 – 
which has been delivered at 13 commercial plants, and a newly developed KS-21 – which is designed to 
achieve significant performance improvements and cost-savings (Drax 2020b). According to Drax, the 
technology challenges are not vast when compared to other post combustion carbon capture applications. 
For example, compared to coal, biomass is naturally much lower in nitrogen and sulphur-based 
contaminants.  
2.2 POST-CAPTURE OPTIONS 
Drax anticipates that a CO2 transportation and storage (T&S) network will be used to transport CO2 from 
the Drax power station to a storage site under the North Sea (Endurance). The UK government is increasingly 
focused on the development of CCUS clusters to decarbonise industrial regions (BEIS 2021). Drax is a 
 
1 Note that this differs somewhat from current annual emissions from biomass generation - 12.7 MtCO2 in 2019 - due to slightly different 
operational characteristics when in a BECCS setting.  
 
 
 
7 
founding member of the Zero Carbon Humber initiative, which aims to deploy CCUS technology across the 
Humber cluster – the UK’s most carbon-intensive industrial cluster. This T&S network is fundamental to 
enable wider decarbonisation with CCUS in the region, with power stations, hydrogen producers, and 
industrial CCUS users all looking at the possibility of connecting. The group anticipates that up to 44MtCO2 
could be captured per year in the Humber region, fairly evenly split between industrial CCUS, hydrogen 
production, and BECCS. The company believes that Drax power station could be well placed to act as an 
anchor project for the cluster by providing the T&S network with a stable supply of CO2.  
 
 
 
 
 
8 
3 Moving to deployment? 
In terms of taking the step to full commercialisation, technological challenges should not be prohibitive. 
Furthermore, in terms of having physical room for the capture units, this should not be an issue either. 
There is ample available land on site at the Drax power station, which will be available for other uses such 
as utilisation facilities and hydrogen production facilities, including the area where the coal is stored 
following the end of commercial coal generation in March 2021. 
However, the Drax BECCS project would require a support mechanism to cover the cost of negative emissions 
and supplement the revenue that the plant could get from generating renewable electricity. Here, Drax has 
considered a number of different policy mechanisms to support BECCS deployment, all of which attempt to 
account for the fact that BECCS produces two useful products – renewable power and negative emissions. 
Examples of possible mechanisms could be: 
1. Power Contracts for Difference (CfD). Under this scheme a BECCS operator would be rewarded for 
both low-carbon power, and negative emissions under a single power CfD price (£/MWh). This would 
instil investor confidence as a well understood mechanism, and could be implemented in a timely 
manner with limited administrative burden.  
 
2. Carbon payment. Under this scheme a BECCS operator would be rewarded per tonne of carbon 
sequestered on a £/tCO2 basis as rewarded through a carbon pricing regime.  
 
3. Power CfD + carbon payment. This scheme is a hybrid of the two schemes. Under this scheme BECCS 
operators would receive a payment (£/tCO2) for carbon sequestered, and a contract for difference 
(£/MWh) payment on the low-carbon power produced.  
 
Having said this, these suggestions are likely to be more important in the short term. Drax have assumed 
that over the long term, a BECCS policy mechanism would transition to an enduring subsidy-free scheme – 
such as the inclusion of negative emissions within an emissions trading scheme, such as an EU or UK-ETS.  
As noted in section 1, an important incentive for Drax to pursue its BECCS project is the 2027 phase-out of 
governmental subsidies for biomass-based electricity generation. Another workstream aimed at meeting the 
challenge of the subsidy phase-out involves reducing biomass costs down from £75/MWh to £50/MWh. These 
workstreams are not mutually exclusive as the £50/MWh biomass cost target applies to BECCS as well. 
However, the operational regimes would be different depending on which objective is prioritized. If the aim 
is to maximize negative emissions, baseload operations would be the appropriate modus operandi, whereas 
focusing on peaking operation without BECCS would be a way to take advantage of electricity price spikes.  
In addition to these policy-based means of generating revenue to cover the cost of BECCS, there is emerging 
interest from private investors in purchasing negative emissions to offset their carbon emissions, a market 
that Drax expects to develop over time.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9 
References 
BEIS (2020). Contracts for Difference for Low Carbon Electricity Generation - Consultation on Proposed 
Amendments to the Scheme. UK Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy. 
https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/885
248/cfd-ar4-proposed-amendments-consultation.pdf 
BEIS (2021). Carbon Capture, Usage and Storage: Market Engagement on Cluster Sequencing. 
https://www.gov.uk/government/consultations/carbon-capture-usage-and-storage-market-engagement-
on-cluster-sequencing 
Committee on Climate Change (2019). Net Zero - The UK’s Contribution to Stopping Global Warming. 
https://www.theccc.org.uk/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/Net-Zero-The-UKs-contribution-to-stopping-
global-warming.pdf 
Drax 
(2020a). 
Carbon 
Dioxide 
Now 
Being 
Captured 
in 
First 
of 
Its 
Kind 
BECCS 
Pilot. 
https://www.drax.com/press_release/world-first-co2-beccs-ccus/ 
Drax (2020b). Negative Emissions Pioneer Drax and Leading Global Carbon Capture Company – Mitsubishi 
Heavy Industries Group – Announce New BECCS Pilot. https://www.drax.com/press_release/negative-
emissions-pioneer-drax-and-leading-global-carbon-capture-company-mitsubishi-heavy-industries-group-
announce-new-beccs-pilot/ 
National 
Grid 
ESO 
(2020). 
Future 
Energy 
Scenarios. 
https://www.nationalgrideso.com/document/173821/download 
Roni, M., Chowdhury, S., Mamun, S., Marufuzzaman, M., Lein, W. and Johnson, S. (2017). Biomass co-firing 
technology with policies, challenges, and opportunities: A global review. Renewable and Sustainable Energy 
Reviews, 78. 1089–1101. DOI: 10.1016/j.rser.2017.05.023 
Royal 
Society 
and 
Royal 
Academy 
of 
Engineering 
(2018). 
Greenhouse 
Gas 
Removal. 
https://www.raeng.org.uk/publications/reports/greenhouse-gas-removal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
Further Information
