 
 
 
 
 
ASSESSMENT OF THE BENEFITS OF 
SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT 
 
Drax Power Limited 
 
Final Report - 09 October 2018 
 
 
 
 
ASSESSMENT OF THE BENEFITS OF SUSTAINABLE FOREST 
MANAGEMENT 
 
SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT 
 
 
Final Report – 09 October 2018 
Drax 
 
 
Pöyry Management Consulting (UK) Ltd 
Contact Details 
 
 
Name 
Email 
Telephone 
Dr. Hannes Lechner 
Hannes.lechner@poyry.com 
+44 20 7932 8239 
Dr. Jack Lonsdale 
Jack.lonsdale@poyry.com 
+44 20 7932 8235 
 
 
 
Pöyry is an international consulting and engineering company. We serve clients across 
power generation, transmission & distribution, forest industry, biorefining & chemicals, 
mining & metals, infrastructure and water & environment. Together, we deliver smart 
solutions and work with the latest digital innovations. Pöyry's net sales in 2017 were EUR 
522 million. The company's shares are quoted on Nasdaq Helsinki. Approximately 5500 
experts. 40 countries. 115 offices. 
 
In 2018 Pöyry is proud to be celebrating its 60th Anniversary, together with employees, 
clients and partners. 
 
Pöyry Management Consulting provides leading-edge consulting and advisory services 
covering the whole value chain in energy, forest and other process industries. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Copyright © 2018 Pöyry Management Consulting (UK) Ltd 
 
 
SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT 
 
 
Final Report – 09 October 2018 
Drax 
 
 
Pöyry Management Consulting (UK) Ltd 
DISCLAIMER 
 
This report has been prepared by Pöyry Management Consulting (UK) Limited (“Pöyry”) solely for 
use by Drax Power Ltd. (“The Recipient”). All other use is strictly prohibited and no other person 
or entity is permitted to use this report, unless otherwise agreed in writing by Pöyry. By accepting 
delivery of this report, the Recipient acknowledges and agrees to the terms of this disclaimer.  
NOTHING IN THIS REPORT IS OR SHALL BE RELIED UPON AS A PROMISE OR 
REPRESENTATION OF FUTURE EVENTS OR RESULTS.  PÖYRY HAS PREPARED THIS 
REPORT BASED ON INFORMATION AVAILABLE TO IT AT THE TIME OF ITS PREPARATION 
AND HAS NO DUTY TO UPDATE THIS REPORT. 
Pöyry makes no representation or warranty, expressed or implied, as to the accuracy or 
completeness of the information provided in this report or any other representation or warranty 
whatsoever concerning this report. This report is partly based on information that is not within 
Pöyry’s control. Statements in this report involving estimates are subject to change and actual 
amounts may differ materially from those described in this report depending on a variety of 
factors. Pöyry hereby expressly disclaims any and all liability based, in whole or in part, on any 
inaccurate or incomplete information given to Pöyry or arising out of the negligence, errors or 
omissions of Pöyry or any of its officers, directors, employees or agents. Recipients' use of this 
report and any of the estimates contained herein shall be at Recipients' sole risk.  
Pöyry expressly disclaims any and all liability arising out of or relating to the use of this report 
except to the extent that a court of competent jurisdiction shall have determined by final judgment 
(not subject to further appeal) that any such liability is the result of the willful misconduct or gross 
negligence of Pöyry. Pöyry also hereby disclaims any and all liability for special, economic, 
incidental, punitive, indirect, or consequential damages. Under no circumstances shall Pöyry have 
any liability relating to the use of this report in excess of the fees actually received by Pöyry for the 
preparation of this report. 
All information contained in this report is confidential and intended for the exclusive use of the 
Recipient. The Recipient may transmit the information contained in this report to its directors, 
officers, employees or professional advisors provided that such individuals are informed by the 
Recipient of the confidential nature of this report. All other use is strictly prohibited. 
All rights (including copyrights) are reserved to Pöyry. No part of this report may be reproduced in 
any form or by any means without prior permission in writing from Pöyry. Any such permitted use 
or reproduction is expressly conditioned on the continued applicability of each of the terms and 
limitations contained in this disclaimer. 
 
SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT 
 
 
Final Report – 09 October 2018 
Drax 
 
 
Pöyry Management Consulting (UK) Ltd 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
5 
1. 
INTRODUCTION 
9 
2. 
FORESTRY CONCEPTS AND DEFINITIONS 
11 
2.1 
Forestry Terms 
11 
2.2 
Sustainable forest management (SFM) 
13 
2.3 
Forest carbon 
14 
3. 
THE IMPACT OF SFM ON FOREST CARBON STOCK 
15 
3.1 
How interventions may increase productivity 
15 
3.2 
Potential negatives of forest management and how to minimise such 
effects 
23 
3.3 
Wider potential benefits of active forest management 
26 
3.4 
Consequences of the absence of forest management 
28 
4. 
SFM CASE STUDIES 
33 
4.1 
US South 
33 
4.2 
Finland 
39 
4.3 
United Kingdom 
46 
4.4 
Uruguay 
54 
 
 
 
 
SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT 
 
 
Final Report – 09 October 2018 
Drax Power Ltd 
5 
 
PÖYRY MANAGEMENT CONSULTING 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
Drax Power Limited has engaged Pöyry Management Consulting (UK) Ltd to build on the 
Forest2Market study of historical trends in the forestry industry of the US South previously 
commissioned by Drax Group, the National Alliance of Forest Owners, and the U.S. 
Endowment for Forestry and Communities. The results of this are contained within this 
report. 
Introduction 
The FAO has predicted that global wood demand will have more than doubled in the 25 
years between 2005 and 2030. To meet this increasing demand, forests must be 
managed in a way that allows increased productivity while maintaining the large number 
of environmental and social benefits they provide, such as carbon sequestration, wildlife 
habitat, water management, and recreation. 
This can be achieved through sustainable forest management, with wood from such 
forests also representing a fully-renewable resource, from which by-products can be used 
to generate renewable energy. This report discusses the positive impacts of sustainable 
forest management, focusing on improvement of growth and carbon storage in forests, as 
well as the benefits to social, environmental, and economic systems that it can offer. 
To understand the consequences of abandoning stands which have previously been 
managed the absence of forest management has also been considered, and four case 
studies are presented to illustrate how sustainable forest management is being 
implemented. 
Forest management to increase productivity 
In order to meet the predicted increase in demand for wood, it will be necessary to not 
only increase the afforested area, but also to increase the amount of wood that grows in 
existing forests. Sustainable forest management, which increases environmental, social, 
and economic benefits consider both the present and the future, can help to achieve this. 
Forests sequester carbon during growth, and some of the factors impacting this growth 
can be adjusted to increase both growth and carbon sequestration. Examples include the 
use of fertilisers to supplement soil nutrients, understory management, and thinning forest 
stands to reduce competition and increase nutrient and light availability for growing trees. 
Forest management also facilitates growth improvements before forests are even planted 
through the use of improved genetic material either through breeding programs or clonal 
propagation. Additionally, sustainable management should ensure that species are 
matched to suitable sites and are planted in a way so as to maximise growth and carbon 
sequestration.  
Productivity increases in regions with sustainable forest management have resulted in 
forest growth that greatly exceeds volumes removed by harvesting, as is observed in all 
four of the case studies. Thus, the volume of trees and stored carbon is increasing in 
regions with sustainable forest management while at the same time allowing for wood 
production to increase. 
Benefits of forest management following natural disturbances 
Forests can be damaged or lost due to natural disturbances such as fire, wind, and pests 
and diseases. In North America alone the area damaged by fire often exceeds 3 million 
 
SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT 
 
 
Final Report – 09 October 2018 
Drax Power Ltd 
6 
 
PÖYRY MANAGEMENT CONSULTING 
hectares in a year, and the European Union reports approximately 10 million hectares is 
damaged by natural disturbances each year. This damage can lead to reduction in forest 
growth and associated carbon sequestration. 
Sustainable forest management has been shown to be an effective method to counteract 
these risks: 
- 
Fire damage risk can be reduced with understory management, thinnings, and 
creation of fire breaks when applied appropriately. 
- 
Wind damage risk can be reduced by using wind resistant species, adjusting 
rotation length and harvesting plans in areas that regularly have high winds. 
- 
Pests and diseases can be minimised through the use of thinnings to increase 
stand vigour and resilience to disease. 
Forest management has also been shown to increase the speed of recovery in stands 
following damage, and may lead to damaged wood to being used rather than 
decomposing and releasing stored carbon back into the atmosphere. 
Wider potential benefits of forest management 
Beyond increased growth and carbon sequestration, managing forests for wood 
production leads to job and income creation: both directly in the forest management and 
throughout the associated forest value chain. The World Bank states that the formal 
timber sector contributes 600 billion USD to the global economy, and is responsible for 
54.2 million jobs. In particular, forest management is of benefit to rural economies, which 
currently may struggle with aging populations and low employment rates. 
Additionally, sustainable forest management has been shown to have notable benefits in 
the developing world. Reduced firewood dependence, and improved health (partly through 
the ecosystem services forests provide) have been recorded, and many certified 
plantations in the developing world have social development plans including education, 
healthcare and primary forest protection through engagement with local communities. 
The recreational value of forests should also be acknowledged and forest management 
can help facilitate recreational access through creation of more forest areas near to 
populations or through the development of roads and trails. 
Lastly, active forest management can reduce pressure on primary or natural forests, and 
in some cases facilitates greater protection of these natural resources due to greater 
engagement with forest issues by communities. 
Criticism and of forest management and mitigation of negative impacts 
Criticism of forest management is often a result of the wrong management techniques 
being applied, leading to negative impacts. The use of scientific, evidence based actions 
through sustainable forest management can minimise these negative impacts. In many 
cases consideration and actions to avert such negative impacts are built into the process 
and controls implemented at national and regional levels. 
As an example, silvicultural practices such as using chemicals for fertilisation, and pest 
control are commonly pointed to as potential negative aspects of forest management. 
While their use is likely to continue to be necessary in maintaining forest productivity, the 
prevalence of certification schemes has led to increasing regulation and control of these 
chemicals to ensure sustainability. Additionally, studies which have considered the 
 
SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT 
 
 
Final Report – 09 October 2018 
Drax Power Ltd 
7 
 
PÖYRY MANAGEMENT CONSULTING 
emissions associated with silvicultural practices have found that the gains in growth and 
carbon storage in soil, pulp and saw timber products outweigh the emissions from fertiliser 
use and do not lead to large increases in carbon payback time.  
Plantation monocultures are another area of forest management with negative 
connotations, with criticism of the lack of species and bio diversity and the associated 
increased susceptibility to pests and disease. Modern plantations must be economically 
viable to be sustainable, which is often only achievable through the economies of scale 
afforded by monocultures. However, modern plantations are often established on 
degraded land, or former pasture (as is the case in Uruguay) and represent a significant 
improvement in terms of carbon storage over the previous land uses. Sustainable 
plantation management will also take into account the wider landscape, even enhancing 
biodiversity by providing for protection of sensitive sites and creating wildlife corridors 
between areas of natural forest.   
Using heavy machinery in harvesting can also be associated with negative opinions. 
Machinery can compact forest soils, increasing runoff and erosion, and can increase 
carbon emissions both through its use and through soil disturbance. However, it is 
important to note that mechanised harvesting is the safest and most efficient means of 
felling trees, meaning that mechanised clearfelling will remain a part of active forest 
management to meet increasing demand for wood. The utilisation of appropriate 
equipment and operating practices should be applied to mitigate any potentially negative 
effects: by ensuring the scale of harvesting is proportionate to the landscape, and 
machines used minimise disturbance. 
Consequences of the absence of forest management 
While there is the potential of some negative impacts from forest management, which can 
largely be mitigated through the use of the right management techniques, an absence of 
forest management would lead to more significant negative impacts. Such a scenario is 
one in which all active management would stop, and forests would be left to grow, 
develop, and die naturally. It is sometimes referred to as ‘shut-the-gate’ forestry.  
If this were to be adopted on a large scale, it would imply a drastic change to forests and 
significantly reduce or remove forest industry. This in turn would result in greater 
emissions associated with the use of more carbon intensive materials in the place of 
wood. On balance it is unlikely that such a drastic measure would be taken globally, but 
this illustrates that the absence of forest management in itself is not a sustainable 
proposition. 
Studies have shown that while mature unmanaged stands could represent a considerable 
store, the rate of carbon sequestration is much less than in young actively managed 
stands, and unmanaged stands may even emit carbon due to natural mortality or 
disturbances such as fire, wind, or disease. The increased rate of sequestration in 
managed forests therefore means that managed stands will sequester more carbon over 
multiple rotations than mature unmanaged forests will during the same time period. 
A spectrum of forest management 
Based on this evidence it is clear that sustainable forest management activity must vary 
over the spectrum of forest types: 
- 
Primary forests which represent a large carbon store and a high biodiversity value 
should not be greatly disturbed. Sustainable management should aim to protect 
and maximize these environmental values. 
 
SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT 
 
 
Final Report – 09 October 2018 
Drax Power Ltd 
8 
 
PÖYRY MANAGEMENT CONSULTING 
- 
Plantations will produce the greatest overall benefit through active management to 
increase yields and thus carbon storage. Consideration of the role plantations play 
in the wider landscape is also important in how they are managed. 
- 
Semi-natural forests sit in between these first groups and must be evaluated 
based on the history of use and the value of biodiversity and stored carbon, to 
determine what form of management is most appropriate. 
Case Studies 
The following case studies highlight how sustainable forest management has been 
implemented in the past, and the benefit it has had. 
US South 
The US South demonstrates how moving to a sustainable forest management system in 
an existing forest area can increase above ground forest carbon stocks. Historically, 
harvesting in this region was exploitative, with selective harvesting of ‘high-grade’ areas of 
natural forest to remove the best timber, leaving deteriorating stands of poor genetic 
material which were expected to naturally regenerate. However, over the past 70 years 
this has transitioned to more intensive management with active planting of improved 
genetic material. The result of this has been an increase in both wood production, and 
standing forest volume, whilst still maintaining the area of forest cover and the associated 
ecosystem services. 
Finland 
Forest production plays a significant role in the country’s economy and it has a long 
history of forest management, considered by many to be at the forefront of sustainable 
forestry practices. These practices have been developed based on decades of research, 
which still continues to be developed. Improvements to forest management practices are 
effectively communicated and then implemented by the very high number of private forest 
owners, and this has resulted in continuously increasing forest carbon stores in Finland’s 
forests, which still meet the demands of domestic producers and the export market alike.  
United Kingdom 
As recently as the beginning of the last century, forest cover in the UK was at a low point 
representing just ~4.7% of total land area. It has since recovered due to a range of public 
and private afforestation efforts to a current level of ~13%. While this has not been 
achieved entirely with sustainable forest management, the UK has put a concerted effort 
into encouraging increased active forest management to foster a position where forest 
land cover includes a diversity of habitats, species, and age classes, thus providing a wide 
range of benefits. All the while, this management has helped to ensure high productivity 
and an increasing standing forest volume from a limited area of land.  
Uruguay 
Uruguay has experienced a rapid development of its forest industry in recent decades 
which has drastically increased the forest area and forest carbon stock. There have also 
been concerted efforts to establish suitable sustainable forest management practices to 
achieve maximum growth potential. Simultaneously this has prevented deforestation of 
natural forests in the country. The development of the forest industry in Uruguay has 
happened more recently than in other regions and primarily under basic economic 
principles, but has nonetheless resulted in extensive forests managed under sustainable 
practices. 
 
 
SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT 
 
 
Final Report – 09 October 2018 
Drax Power Ltd 
9 
 
PÖYRY MANAGEMENT CONSULTING 
1. 
INTRODUCTION 
Drax Power Limited has engaged Pöyry Management Consulting (UK) Ltd to build on the 
Forest2Market study, ‘Historical Perspective on the Relationship between Demand and 
Forest Productivity in the US South’ previously commissioned by Drax Group; the National 
Alliance of Forest Owners; and the U.S. Endowment for Forestry and Communities. The 
Forest2Market study found that over the last 60 years, as demand for forestry products 
has increased, the productivity of forests and the amount of carbon stored in forests in the 
US South has also increased. 
In this report, Pöyry discusses more widely the positive impact of sustainable forest 
management focusing particularly on improvement of growth and carbon storage in 
forests. Additionally, wider benefits to the social, environmental, and economic systems 
are considered where appropriate, sustainable forest management occurs.  
Additionally, the absence of forest management is considered as a comparison to show 
where the absence of forest management may be appropriate. 
To practically demonstrate the wide application of sustainable forest management, four 
case studies are put forward. These represent a variety of examples of the impact of 
sustainable forest management covering multiple geographic, political, and environmental 
conditions: 
- 
US South 
- 
Finland 
- 
United Kingdom 
- 
Uruguay 
This report focuses on semi-natural managed forests as well as plantations. Natural, old-
growth forests are not considered extensively here, due to the fact that sustainable forest 
management practices would exclude such forests due to these forests’ wider values 
outside of wood production (social and environmental benefits).  
Evidence for the discussions is based on both peer reviewed literature and Pöyry’s 
international forestry knowledge base to ensure thorough coverage of the impact of 
sustainable forest management. 
Forest products 
While this report is concerned with in forest carbon, it is important to consider the fate of 
carbon that is removed from the forest. Wood coming from managed forests may either 
provide further storage in forest products (which can also lead to substitution versus more 
carbon costly products e.g. concrete), or in the substitution effect versus fossil fuels for 
energy production. Exclusion of this store of carbon in analysis can result in invalid 
conclusions regarding the benefits of forest management1, and acceptance of this as a 
carbon pool has been internationally recognised since COP17 Durban in 2011. There is 
additionally a large body of peer reviewed literature which addresses the carbon benefits 
of forest products and fossil fuel substitution through methods such as life cycle 
                                                 
 
1 Lippke et al., 2010, Characterising the importance of carbon stored in wood products, Wood and Fibre 
Science 42(CORRIM Special Issue) 
 
SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT 
 
 
Final Report – 09 October 2018 
Drax Power Ltd 
10 
 
PÖYRY MANAGEMENT CONSULTING 
assessment. Consideration of this in detail is beyond the scope of this report; however it is 
discussed where relevant.  
 
SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT 
 
 
Final Report – 09 October 2018 
Drax Power Ltd 
11 
 
PÖYRY MANAGEMENT CONSULTING 
2. 
FORESTRY CONCEPTS AND DEFINITIONS 
A wide variety of definitions have been applied in forest assessment. Discussions of what 
is a ‘forest’ are common: Indeed the IPCC report on Land Use, Land-Use Change, and 
Forestry (LULUCF)2 discusses the difficulty in defining a forest and what the impact of the 
definition will be on the amount of land included in the carbon accounting for Kyoto 
Protocol reporting.  It is also common for definitions to be influenced by management or 
policy objectives with some factors in definitions being less important than others 
depending on the objectives3.  
The intervention involved in managing forests occurs on a spectrum and many of the 
terms may overlap or be difficult to separate in a meaningful way. However, In order to 
provide as much clarity as possible with regards to the terms used throughout this report, 
we present common definitions (taken from sources relevant to this report) as well as 
discussing how terms may be related. 
2.1 
Forestry Terms 
Throughout this report we use the definitions as provided in Table 1. 
Table 1: Forestry Term definitions 
Term 
Definition 
Plantation forest 
Forest of either native or introduced species 
established by planting or seeding4 
Natural forest  
A forest composed of indigenous trees and 
not classified as a forest plantation5  
Primary forests  
Naturally regenerated forest of native 
species, where there are no clearly visible 
indications of human activities and the 
ecological processes are not significantly 
disturbed6  
Semi-natural forests  
Forest/other wooded land of native species, 
established through planting, seeding or 
assisted natural regeneration7  
                                                 
 
2 IPCC, 2000, IPCC Special Report: Land Use, Land-use Change and Forestry 
3 Chazdon et al., 2016, When is a forest a forest? Forest concepts and definitions in the era of forest and 
landscape restoration, Ambio 45 
4 Carle & Holmgren, 2003, Definitions related to planted forests, Paper presented at UNFF Inter-sessional 
Expert Meeting International Steering Group on "The Role of Planted Forests in Sustainable Forest Management - 
Maximizing Planted Forests' Contribution to SFM". Wellington, New Zealand 
5 UNFCCC, 2006, United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change: Handbook 
6 FAO, 2015, Forest Resources Assessment (FRA) 2015: Terms and Definitions 
7 FAO, 2005, Global Forest Resources Assessment Update 2005: Terms and Definitions 
 
SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT 
 
 
Final Report – 09 October 2018 
Drax Power Ltd 
12 
 
PÖYRY MANAGEMENT CONSULTING 
Naturally regenerated forest  
Forest predominantly composed of trees 
established through natural regeneration6  
Active forest management 
Attaining desired forest objectives and 
future conditions through forest 
management practices and operations such 
as harvesting, thinning and silviculture 
Afforestation 
Direct human-induced conversion of land 
that has not been forested for a period of at 
least 50 years to forested land through 
planting, seeding and/or the human-
induced promotion of natural seed sources8 
Reforestation 
Direct human-induced conversion of non-
forested land to forested land through 
planting, seeding and/or the human-
induced promotion of natural seed sources, 
on land that was forested but that has been 
converted to non-forested land8 
 
It is possible to see how some of these definitions overlap and interact in Table 2. It is 
apparent that only primary forests have no human activity, with the remaining forest types 
on a spectrum of human intervention. Thus, while efforts are made to clarify the 
differences between forest types, the distinction between them will often be a result of the 
perspective of the classifier9. 
                                                 
 
8 UNFCCC, 2006,  Report of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the 
Kyoto Protocol on its first session, Annex: Definitions, modalities, rules and guidelines relating to land use, 
land-use change and forestry activities under the Kyoto Protocol 
9 FAO, 2000, The Global outlook for future wood supply from forest plantations, Working Paper 
 
SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT 
 
 
Final Report – 09 October 2018 
Drax Power Ltd 
13 
 
PÖYRY MANAGEMENT CONSULTING 
Table 2: Definition hierarchy overview 
Natural Forest 
Planted Forests 
Primary 
Naturally 
regenerated 
forests 
Semi-Natural 
Plantation 
 
Forest of native 
species, where 
there are no clearly 
visible indications of 
human activities 
and the ecological 
processes are not 
significantly 
disturbed 
 
Forest of naturally 
regenerated native 
species where there 
are clearly visible 
indications of human 
activities 
Assisted 
natural 
regeneration 
(through 
silvicultural 
practices) 
Planted Forests 
Productive  
Protective 
Weeding, 
fertilising, 
thinning, 
selective logging 
Forest of native 
species, 
established 
through planting, 
seeding, coppice 
Forest of 
primarily 
introduced 
and native 
species, 
established 
through plan-
ting or 
seeding 
mainly 
for production 
of wood or 
non-wood 
goods 
Forest of native 
or introduced 
species, 
established 
through planting 
or seeding mainly 
for provision of 
services (flood 
protection, hillside 
stabilisation etc.) 
Source: FAO, Pöyry 
2.2 
Sustainable forest management (SFM)  
There are a number of different definitions of sustainable forest management (Table 3). It 
is possible to see that throughout the definitions social, environmental and economic 
impacts are mentioned. Time scale is also an important factor in many of the definitions, 
with most referring to an ongoing process into the future either implicitly or explictly. 
It is therefore to be understood that while there is no common definition of sustainable 
forest management, it will not be occurring if all of these factors are not being considered 
in the management of forests. 
Table 3: Sustainable forest management definitions 
Source 
Definition 
FSC  
“A forest that is managed in a way that preserves the natural 
ecosystem and benefits the lives of local people and workers, 
all while ensuring it sustains economic viability”  
PEFC  
“Environmentally appropriate, socially beneficial, and 
economically viable management of forests for present and 
future generations”  
European Commission  
“Natural sustainable ecosystems provide the biological basis 
of forest biodiversity, its functions, and growth cycles. When 
forest biodiversity is based on man's intervention, it is called 
sustainable forest management.”  
 
SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT 
 
 
Final Report – 09 October 2018 
Drax Power Ltd 
14 
 
PÖYRY MANAGEMENT CONSULTING 
FAO  
“Sustainable forest management addresses forest degradation 
and deforestation while increasing direct benefits to people 
and the environment. At the social level, sustainable forest 
management contributes to livelihoods, income generation and 
employment. At the environmental level, it contributes to 
important services such as carbon sequestration and water, 
soil and biodiversity conservation.”  
 
2.3 
Forest carbon 
The following terms are often used relating to forest carbon and thus it is important to 
understand them. 
Table 4: Forest carbon definitions 
Term 
Definition 
Above-ground carbon  
“Carbon in all living biomass above the soil, including stem, 
stump, branches, bark, seeds, and foliage”6 
Below-ground carbon  
“Carbon in all biomass of live roots. Fine roots of less than 2 
mm diameter are excluded, because these often cannot be 
distinguished empirically from soil organic matter or litter”6 
Carbon sink  
“Any process, activity or mechanism that removes carbon from 
the atmosphere”10 
Carbon stock  
“The absolute quantity of carbon held within a pool at a 
specified time. The units of measurement are mass.”2 
Carbon sequestration  
“The uptake (i.e., the addition of a substance of concern to a 
reservoir) of carbon containing substances, in particular 
carbon dioxide (CO2), in terrestrial or marine reservoirs.”10  
Carbon pool  
“A reservoir of carbon. A system which has the capacity to 
accumulate or release carbon.”2 
Carbon flux  
“Transfer of carbon from one carbon pool to another in units of 
measurement of mass per unit area and time (e.g., t C ha -1 
yr-1)”2 
Forest carbon  
All carbon pools associated with forest ecosystem, classically 
5 main categories: Above-ground carbon, below-ground 
carbon, dead organic matter (DOM) in wood, DOM in litter, and 
soil organic matter (Based on Watson11) 
 
                                                 
 
10 IPCC, 2014, Climate Change 2014: Synthesis Report 
11 Watson, 2009, Forest Carbon Accounting: Overview & Principles, United Nations Development 
Programme 
 
SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT 
 
 
Final Report – 09 October 2018 
Drax Power Ltd 
15 
 
PÖYRY MANAGEMENT CONSULTING 
3. 
THE IMPACT OF SFM ON FOREST CARBON STOCK 
3.1 
How interventions may increase productivity  
3.1.1 
Forest growth overview 
Trees grow increasing their volume and sequestering carbon through the processes of 
photosynthesis and respiration. These processes are functions of climatic and 
physiological conditions such as light, moisture, temperature, CO2 concentration, and soil 
nutrient levels.  
The growth of most tree species is generally observed to have a S-shaped growth curve 
with initially slow growth followed by a period of higher growth before reaching a period of 
slowing growth towards an asymptote (maximum) volume (Figure 1). The initial slow 
growth may be short (for example in more shade tolerant species) and the s-shape may 
not be observed which results in growth curves as shown in blue in Figure 1.  
The presence of an asymptote in individual tree growth is widely acknowledged. While the 
physiological cause has not been attributed to any one factor (and is beyond the scope of 
this report), constraints on how much water can be moved around large trees for 
photosynthesis is also likely to have some role12. Thus the asymptote will vary based on 
the site and climatic conditions, with more favourable sites for productivity having higher 
asymptotes.  
Figure 1: Tree growth variation due to site productivity in common growth forms 
 
The growth trends in Figure 1 will also be seen at the stand level, with stands will reaching 
an upper limit of biomass a site can support above which trees will begin to die through 
                                                 
 
12 Ryan et al., 2006, The hydraulic limitation hypothesis revisited, Plant, Cell and Environment 29 
Volume 
Age 
Increasing site 
productivity 
Aymptotes 
Slow early growth 
 
Fast early growth 
 
SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT 
 
 
Final Report – 09 October 2018 
Drax Power Ltd 
16 
 
PÖYRY MANAGEMENT CONSULTING 
self-thinning13. Further to this, at stand level it is even possible for volume to even drop in 
time due to increases in mortality associated with natural disturbance events that become 
more likely the older a stand becomes. 
Increment is often referred to in forestry and represents the change in volume over a 
given time. The two most commonly used increments in forestry are: 
- 
Current annual increment (CAI): the volume accumulated in any given year of 
growth; 
- 
Mean annual increment (MAI): the mean volume accumulated per year over all 
years of growth 
Stands on more productive sites (or with higher productivity species) will reach a higher 
current and mean annual increment, compared to lower productivity sites. However these 
high productivity stands will reach this point sooner than the lower productivity stands 
(Figure 2). The maximum MAI occurs when the CAI intersects with the MAI (once the 
current annual increment is below the MAI it begins to reduce the MAI). The age when this 
occurs is referred to as the optimal biological rotation age, as if stands are grown with a 
rotation equal to this age biological volume production is maximised over its lifetime. Sites 
with higher productivity will have shorter biologically optimal rotation lengths. It should be 
noted that biologically optimal rotations are not always aligned with economically optimal 
rotation lengths. 
Figure 2: Example of biomass increment for Sitka spruce stands in the UK over a 
range of productivities  
 
                                                 
 
13 Zeide, 1987, Analysis of the 3/2 Power Law of Self-Thinning,  Forest Science 33(2) 
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
Volume (m3/ha/yr) 
Age (yr) 
Current Annual Increment (CAI)
Mean Annual Increment (MAI)
Biologically optimal 
rotation ages 
Increasing 
site 
productivity 
 
SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT 
 
 
Final Report – 09 October 2018 
Drax Power Ltd 
17 
 
PÖYRY MANAGEMENT CONSULTING 
The more productive sites see a greater relative fall in productivity after they reach the 
maximum increment versus to lower productivity site. All productivities eventually tend 
towards the point at which the current annual increment meets the x-axis: the age when 
the asymptote in volume is reached (Figure 2).  
3.1.2 
Enhancing growth 
Growth can be enhanced throughout the rotation of a forest stand. During stand 
development, some of the factors impacting growth and increment can also be 
anthropogenically modified to increase forest growth. Soil nutrients and light can be 
modified through cultivation and fertilisation; and understory management and thinnings 
can reduce competition and increase light availability. Such actions are typically referred 
to silvicultural activities. Even prior to and during establishment, management can begin to 
impact growth through selecting improved genetic material and choosing where species 
are most suited to maximise growth. In addition to this other anthropogenic factors may 
impact forest growth such as climate change. If forest growth is increased more carbon 
from the atmosphere can be sequestered in the forest over a given time. These activities 
are discussed in more detail in the following sections. 
3.1.2.1 Fertilisation 
Fertilisation involves the application of nutrients which are lacking or are reduced in 
certain soils, but are required for photosynthesis: nitrogen, phosphate, and potassium are 
typical nutrients.  
Fertilisation effect has been studies in a variety of forests around the world: for example in 
loblolly pine plantations in the US South14, semi-natural Douglas fir in the Pacific 
Northwest15, Sitka spruce plantations in the UK16, and even in species-rich natural lowland 
tropical forests around the world17. In all cases it has shown that fertilisation can increase 
growth, though the impact is dependent on site factors. 
Generally, it is the case that the greatest impact is when fertiliser applications are made in 
younger stands though the impact of fertilisation is usually experienced over the whole 
rotation. Studies of loblolly pine in the US South have shown that fertilisation in the earlier 
years of a rotation can result in average increases in yield of 87 m3/ha over the course of 
a 25 year rotation18. Although early fertilisation is the usual approach, some positive 
impact on growth of fertilisation in older stands has also been reported15.  
                                                 
 
14 Sampson et al., 2006, Fertilization effects on forest carbon storage and exchange, and net primary 
production: A new hybrid process model for stand management, Forest Ecology and Management 
221(1-3) 
15 Dou et al., 2015, Impact of Nitrogen Fertilization on Forest Carbon Sequestration and Water Loss in 
a Chronosequence of Three Douglas-Fir Stands in the Pacific Northwest, Forests 6 
16 Nair et al., 2016, Does canopy nitrogen uptake enhance carbon sequestration  by trees?, Global 
Change Biology 22 
17 Wright et al., 2018, Plant responses to fertilization experiments in lowland, species-rich, tropical 
forests, Ecology, to be published 
18 Fox et al., 2007, Tree nutrition and forest fertilization of pine plantations in the Souther United 
States, Southern Journal of Applied Forestry 31(1) 
 
SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT 
 
 
Final Report – 09 October 2018 
Drax Power Ltd 
18 
 
PÖYRY MANAGEMENT CONSULTING 
3.1.2.2 Understory management 
Understory management aims to reduce the competition of other plants that are growing 
in the forest with crop trees (weeds, or undesired tree species). This can be conducted in 
a number of ways: manually or mechanically removing the understory, or application of 
herbicides to chemically remove understory. Management of the understory is particularly 
important in younger stands where even small weeds may compete with sapling trees for 
water, nutrients and light, and thus weed control has been suggested as a cost effective 
way to increase carbon storage in forests19. 
Positive impact of understory management on growth and increment has been shown in 
eucalyptus plantations in China20, semi-natural Scots pine forests in Switzerland21, and a 
long term study of semi-natural ponderosa pine in Oregon found that removal of 
understory vegetation increased the speed at which the tree canopy area developed22, 
which has the potential to further accelerate growth.  
Other potential benefits of understory management include positive impact on fire risk as it 
reduces the potential fuel in the forest (see Section 3.1.3), and understory biomass 
removal has also been suggested as a possible energy source in the US South when 
converted to ethanol23. 
3.1.2.3 Thinning 
Thinning is the removal of a limited proportion of stems at some point prior to the final 
felling of a forest stand. These removed stems may be merchantable, although this is not 
always the case. If the wood is merchantable it may allow profit or at least offset thinning 
costs, further incentivising sustainable management. The main markets for thinned wood 
have traditionally been pulp producers though thinning material is increasingly being used 
by bioenergy producers in markets with diminished pulp production. Such bioenergy 
producers may even be able to take  smaller dimensions of wood than pulp. 
The aim of thinning is to reduce the competition between neighbouring trees for light, 
water, nutrients and growing space. The reduction in competition for the retained stems 
has been shown to increase growth per hectare for a wide range of forest types and tree 
species: examples include both coniferous and broadleaf species in semi-natural 
temperate forests24, native tree reforestation in Costa Rica25, and radiata pine in Australia 
and New Zealand26. 
                                                 
 
19 Stokes & Willoughby, 2014, Early weed control can increase long-term growth, yield and carbon 
sequestration of Sitka spruce stands in Britain, Forestry 87(3) 
20 Zhou et al., 2018, Effects of understory management on trade-offs and synergies between biomass 
carbon stock, plant diversity and timber production in eucalyptus plantations, Forest Ecology and 
Management 410 
21 Giuggiola et al., 2018, Competition for water in a xeric forest ecosystem – Effects of understory 
removal on soil micro-climate, growth and physiology of dominant Scots pine trees, 2018, Forest 
Ecology and Management 409 
22 Oren et al., 1987, Twenty-four years of ponderosa pine growth in relation to canopy leaf area and 
understory competition, Forest Science 33(2) 
23 Marinescu et al., 2011, Assessing forest understory biomass in northwest Florida (USA) and its 
potential to meet the state energy needs, Forestry Studies in China 13(4) 
24 Juodvalkis et al., 2005, Effects of thinning on growth of six tree species in north-temperate forests of 
Lithuania, European Journal of Forest Research 124(3) 
 
SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT 
 
 
Final Report – 09 October 2018 
Drax Power Ltd 
19 
 
PÖYRY MANAGEMENT CONSULTING 
The intensity of thinning may be important in determining a positive impact on overall 
stand growth, with simulations showing that too intense thinnings may reduce overall 
productivity in stands and thus carbon sequestration27. The thinned volume may not be 
replaced by growth of the remaining stems, and intense thinnings may also temporarily 
reduce whole stand productivity as the trees are not able to take full advantage of the 
nutrients, water and light available within the stand until the canopy closes again28. 
Similar to understory vegetation thinning can also have a positive impact on fire 
management if conducted in certain ways (see Section 3.1.3).  
3.1.2.4 Establishment enhancements 
Prior to even placing any trees in the ground, sustainable forest management can begin to 
improve future productivity. Ensuring the correct species is planted for given sites ensures 
not only that growth will be optimal, but that a species will be able to survive. Decision 
support tools have been developed for this around the world. Examples include tools for 
temperate forests in the UK29 and Ireland30, or for fast growing exotic species plantations 
in South Africa31.  
In addition to understanding what species should be planted where, it is also important to 
consider where the genetic material will come from. Certain provenances of seeds or 
seedlings may be better suited than others, especially in a changing climate. For example, 
in British Columbia, Canadian foresters have been moving seeds from lower elevation 
seed sources to higher elevation to counteract the warming climate and allow species to 
continue to grow32. In addition to this tree breeding programs continue to work to enhance 
the genetic material available to forest managers. For example tree breeding programs in 
Finland and Sweden have seen genetic growth gains of between 10-25% over 
unimproved seed stock33. Clonal material can also be used to provide proven growth traits 
in genetic material, though it is important to take action to reduce risks to reduced genetic 
diversity when applied34. 
                                                                                                                                                    
 
25 Redondo-Brenes, 2007, Growth, carbon sequestration, and management of native tree plantations in 
humid regions of Costa Rica, New Forests 34(3) 
26 Sheriff, 1996, Responses of carbon gain and growth of Pinus radiate stands to thinning and 
fertilizing, Tree Physiology 16 
27 Alam et al., 2008, Impacts of thinning on growth, timber production and carbon stocks in Finland 
under changing climate, Scandinavian Journal of Forest Research 23(6) 
28 Garcia, 2013, Forest Sands as Dynamical Systems: An Introduction, Modern Applied Science 7 
29 Forest Research, Ecological Site Classification Decision Support System, accessible at: 
https://www.forestresearch.gov.uk/tools-and-resources/forest-planning-and-management-
services/ecological-site-classification-decision-support-system-esc-dss/ 
30 Coford, 2003, A guide to forest tree species selection and silviculture in Ireland 
31 Louw & Scholes, 2002, Forest site classification and evaluation: a South African perspective, Forest 
Ecology and Management 171(1-2) 
32 Marris, 2009, Forestry: Planting the forest of the future, Nature 459 
33 Jansson et al.,2017, The genetic and economic gains from forest tree beeding programmes in 
Scandinavia and Finland, Scandinavian Journal of Forest Research 32(4) 
34 Burdon & Aimers, 2003, Risk management for clonal forestry with Pinus radiate – Analysis and 
review. 1: Stragic issues and risk spread, New Zealand Journal of Forestry Science 33(2) 
 
SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT 
 
 
Final Report – 09 October 2018 
Drax Power Ltd 
20 
 
PÖYRY MANAGEMENT CONSULTING 
During establishment, forest management can further increase survival and growth versus 
unmanaged stands. Intensive ground preparation can cause significant improvement to 
long term growth, causing improvements to soil temperature and improving root growth 
and the uptake of water and nutrients35. This was shown in the US South where high 
intensity ground preparation led to approximately 40% gains in growth over low intensity 
ground preparation36. However, this may not always be the case, with an example in 
central Europe indicating that ground preparation had no discernible impact on growth37. 
Thus growth gains are likely be dependent on local soil conditions.  
In some geographies susceptible to annual periods of drought, management at 
establishment can be vital ensure growth by avoiding planting before dry seasons to 
reduce mortality in seedlings. Alternatively resilience to drought can be provided by 
planting seedlings with water retaining agents (hydrogels)38, effectively increasing the 
growing season for such areas.   
Active management of establishment will also ensure that the optimal planting density is 
achieved to maximise growth, and will usually include a course of beating up (or blanking) 
to replace plantings which have failed within the first year to ensure optimal density is 
achieved. 
3.1.2.5 Large scale change impacting growth 
While temperature, rainfall, and CO2 concentration are not easily manipulated, it is 
important to note that globally changes are occurring: CO2 concentration is increasing with 
burning of fossil fuels; and climate is also changing (increasing temperatures, longer 
growing seasons, changes in precipitation). This has the potential to both positively and 
negatively impact forest growth. 
Studies have shown measurements of biomass accumulation exceed expected growth in 
line with atmospheric CO2 and temperature increases both in mixed natural hardwood 
stands in the US South39, and plantation forests in Japan40. Simulation studies using 
models that attempt to replicate the physiological processes of forest growth have also 
shown that the changes in climate and atmosphere may increase growth especially in 
colder areas41, although this is not universally the case with some studies simulating 
                                                 
 
35 Forestry Commission, 2009, Improved Conifer Timber Quality Guidance Note: Establishment 
Practice 
36 Nilsson & Allen, 2003, Short- and long-term effects of site preparation, fertilization and vegetation 
control on growth and stand development of planted loblolly pine, Forest Ecology and Management 175 
37 Aleksandrowicz-Trzcinska et al., 2017, Effects of reforestation and site preparation methods on early 
growth and survival of Scots pine in South-Eastern Poland, Forests 8 
38 Viero et al., 2000, The effect of a soil-amended hydrogel on the establishment of a Eucalyptus 
grandis x E. camaldulensis clone grown on the sandy soils of Zululand, South African Forestry Journal 
188(1) 
39 McMahon et al., 2010, Evidence for a recent increase in forest growth, Proceedings of the National 
Academy of Sciences of the USA 107(8)  
40 Fang et al., 2014, Evidence for environmentally enhanced forest growth, Proceedings of the National 
Academy of Sciences of the USA 111(26) 
41 Kinderman et al., 2013, Potential stocks and increments of woody biomass in the EU under different 
management and climate scenarios, Carbon Balance and Management 8(3) 
 
SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT 
 
 
Final Report – 09 October 2018 
Drax Power Ltd 
21 
 
PÖYRY MANAGEMENT CONSULTING 
growth finding no net impact on growth (e.g. in boreal Canada42). Climate change has also 
been modelled to have negative impacts such as increased mortality (or at least reduced 
growth) due to drought43 or increased catastrophic damage risks (fire, wind, insect)44 
which can also cause mortality and reduce growth. 
It may be the case that the silvicultural activities detailed above need to be used in order 
that growth can be prevented from falling under the pressures of changing climatic and 
atmospheric conditions. The lack of net impact of increased CO2 levels on forests 
mentioned above could be a result of nutrient limitation which can restrict growth. This 
was shown in a study in North Carolina pine forests45, where productivity increases were 
only observed when CO2 enrichment was coupled with fertilisation. The impact of thinning 
and understory management on fire risk is discussed further in the next section. 
3.1.3 
Natural disturbance related interventions 
Forests can be damaged or lost due to natural disturbances such as fire, wind, and pests 
and diseases. This impacts large areas of forest each year, for example, in the US an 
average of 680,183 hectares burn each year46, and in Canada an even higher 2.1 million 
hectares burn each year47. In the European Union it is reported that approximately 6% of 
forested land (some 10 million hectares) is damaged by natural disturbances each year48 
Forests may have been put at higher risk for such damages by historic management 
practices, which have focused more on timber production. A good example of this is 
Canada, where through the mid-20th century forest management was focused on fire 
suppression, attempting to extinguish all fires to prevent loss to wood (and other property), 
however this resulted in strong recovery of the undergrowth allowing fires to jump from 
understory to canopy increasing fuel and fire intensity. More recently however, fire has 
been recognised as a natural forest process by forest managers and management 
involves attempts to reduce fuel loads through controlled fires49.  As mentioned in the 
previous section, anthropogenic climate change is also increasing the risk of natural 
disturbance. 
Sustainable forest management to counteract these increased risks, and mitigate impacts 
where damage has happened is therefore often appropriate. 
                                                 
 
42 Girardin et al., 2016, No growth stimulation of Canada’s boreal forest under half-century of 
combined warming and CO2 fertilization, Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the USA 
113(52) 
43 Allen et al., 2010, A global overview of drough and heat-induced tree mortality reveals emerging 
climate change risks for forests, Forest Ecology and Management 259(4) 
44 Dale et al., 2001, Climate Change and Forest Disturbances, BioScience 51(9) 
45 Oren et al., 2001, Soil fertility limits carboin sequestration by forest ecosystems in a CO2- enriched 
atmosphere, Nature 411 
46 US National Interagency Fire Center, 2018, Daily Report, available at: 
https://www.nifc.gov/fireInfo/nfn.htm 
47 Canadian National Fire Database, available at: http://cwfis.cfs.nrcan.gc.ca/ha/nfdb 
48 European Union, The European Union and forests, available at: 
http://www.europarl.europa.eu/atyourservice/en/displayFtu.html?ftuId=FTU_3.2.11.html 
49 Hirsch, 2004, Feature Article – Forest Fires and Sustainable Forest Management in Canada, Policy 
Horizons Canada: Sustainabe Development Where Next? Govt. of Canada 
 
SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT 
 
 
Final Report – 09 October 2018 
Drax Power Ltd 
22 
 
PÖYRY MANAGEMENT CONSULTING 
3.1.3.1 Preventative management 
Sustainable forest management can help avoid these natural disturbances and losses to 
growth, maintaining forests as active carbon sinks: 
- 
Wind damage can be minimised by ensuring more wind resistant species are 
placed in  higher wind risk areas, thinning less (or earlier), and in taking care to 
manage fellings to leave wind-firm edges50 
- 
Increasing or maintaining species diversity to forest stands can reduce the impact 
of pests and diseases51,52 
- 
Removing understory vegetation either manually or through preventative, 
controlled (low intensity) burns reduces the amount of fuel in forests which can 
lead to intense and destructive fires. This will of course release some carbon, 
though depending on the intensity of the intervention this may be resequestered by 
the forest in time53. Consideration of this should be made in planning. Retention of 
mid-sized trees is suggested as a good method of maintaining growth and 
productivity in the stand. 
- 
Thinning may also help to reduce fire damage, although this is dependent on the 
type of thinning. The best type of thinning for reducing crown fire is one which 
removes the smaller stems from a forest, thus increasing the canopy base height 
and reducing the likelihood of catastrophic fire54. 
3.1.3.2 Post damage actions 
Where forests are being actively managed, the impact of disturbance events can 
potentially be reduced, and forests can transition from the damage to being productive 
more quickly. Disturbed forests have been found to transition from a carbon source (net 
emitter) to a sink more quickly when management follows disturbance with a salvage 
harvest versus leaving wood in the forest55 and a study in the US South found actively 
managed forests recovering (and thus showing higher productivity and sequestration) 
more rapidly than unmanaged forests following wind damage56.  
                                                 
 
50 Quine et al., 1995, Forests and Wind: Management to Minimise Damage, Forestry Commission 
Belletin 114 
51 NF5 Planted forest tree species diversity index, available at: 
https://www.climatexchange.org.uk/research/indicators-and-trends/indicators/nf5-planted-forest-tree-species-
diversity-index/ 
52 Guyot et al., 2015, Tree Diversity Limits the Impact of an Invasive Forest Pest 
53 Weichmann et al., 2015, The carbon balance of reducing wildfire risk and restoring process: an 
analysis of 10-year post-treatment carbon dynamics in a mixed –conifer forest, Climatic Change 132(4) 
54 Peterson et al., 2003, Fuels planning: Managing forest structure to reduce fire hazard, Second 
International Wildland Fire Ecology and Fire Management Congress and Fifth Symposium on Fire and 
Forest Meteorology 
55 Yamanoi et al., 2015, Effects of a windthrow disturbance on the carbon balance of a broadleaf 
deciduous forest in Hokkaido, Japan, Biogeosciences 12 
56 Laing et al., 2011, How management strategies have affected Atlantic White-cedar forest recovery 
after massive wind damage in the Great Dismal Swamp, Forest Ecology and Management 262 
 
SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT 
 
 
Final Report – 09 October 2018 
Drax Power Ltd 
23 
 
PÖYRY MANAGEMENT CONSULTING 
Damaged forests under active management also have the potential to have the damaged 
wood salvaged, preventing the carbon stored in the wood from simply being released 
back into the atmosphere. It can instead go to storage in products or use as bioenergy to 
offset fossil fuel emmissions. 
In addition to this, observing damages in forests which may not have been established 
with sustainable principles can help to lead to future practices which are more sustainable, 
identifying what risks forests are subject to57. 
3.2 
Potential negatives of forest management and how to minimise 
such effects  
Balancing objectives is key to sustainable forest management, and the current and future 
impact of a management decision should always be considered. It is clear that a one-
approach fits all forest management (as may have been historically applied) is no longer 
responsible or sustainable. It is important to note that both regulations and voluntary 
schemes such as certification by FSC or PEFC are encouraging forest managers to move 
away from forest management which can cause negative impacts. 
3.2.1 
Silviculture and forest structure 
Silvicultural practices, especially when concerned with the use of chemicals are raised as 
potential negative aspects of forest management. Studies are not definitive in regard to 
the impacts of herbicides such as the widely used glyphosate, with some reports pointing 
to observations of negative impacts58, although more recent studies indicate that it does 
not pose a significant risk to humans or environment when used in an appropriate manner 
in the forest environment59. Generally however, sustainable forest management is aiming 
to reduce the use of pesticides60 and herbicides and instead favouring other substitute 
options such as research based applications of biological control. Likewise fertiliser 
application can also easily lead to moving away from ecological objectives in pursuit of 
productive optimums61, and care must be taken to take this into account in sustainable 
forest management. 
In terms of carbon, studies which have considered the emissions associated with 
silvicultural practices have found that the gains in growth and carbon storage in soil, pulp 
and sawnwood products outweigh the emissions62 and do not lead to large increases in 
carbon payback time63. However, the emissions will depend on the silvicultural operations 
undertaken, and even seemingly similar operations in Sweden and Finland were shown to 
                                                 
 
57 Wiersum, 1995, 200 years of sustainability in forestry: Lessons from history, Environmental 
Management 19(3) 
58 Buffin et al. 2001, Health and environmental impacts of glyphosphate: the implications of increased 
use of glyphosphate in associateion with genertically modified crops, Prepared for Friends of the Earth 
59 Rolando et al., 2017, The risks associated with glyphosate-based herbicide use in planted forests, 
Forests 8, 208 
60 Forestry Commission, 2004, Reducing Pesticide Use in Forestry, HMSO UK 
61 Good & Beatty, 2011, Fertilizing Nature: A Tragedy of Excess in the Commons, PLOS Biology 9(8) 
62 Markewitz, 2006, Fossil fuel carbon emissions from silviculure: Impacts on net carbon sequestration 
in forests, Forest Ecology and Management 236(2-3) 
63 Jonker et al., 2013, Carbon payback period and carbon offset parity point of wood pellet production 
in the South-eastern United States, Global Change Biology Bioenergy 6(4) 
 
SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT 
 
 
Final Report – 09 October 2018 
Drax Power Ltd 
24 
 
PÖYRY MANAGEMENT CONSULTING 
have differing silvicultural carbon emissions (mostly based on differences in draining of 
soils)64. Consideration in terms of carbon consequences versus gains in growth should be 
made by forest managers when deciding upon silvicultural operations, and as more data 
becomes available, decision support tools are becoming more available for use in this 
field. 
Plantation monocultures are often pointed to as a negative aspect of intensive forest 
management. There are a couple of issues that are of concern with monocultures: as 
previously mentioned, lack of species diversity can lead to increased susceptibility to 
pests and disease. Monocultures are also criticised for the use of exotic species such as 
Sitka spruce in the UK or Eucalyptus in Uruguay, and the consequent lack of biodiversity 
they support. While studies have concluded that movement away from monocultures can 
potentially lead to biodiversity gains65, there is also evidence that plantations can provide 
valuable habitat or act as a link between separated natural forest66. Indeed studies in the 
UK have shown both positive and negative impacts of the introduction of Sitka on 
biodiversity, with lower vascular plant diversity than native stands but richer diversity of 
fungal and invertebrate communities67. Thus studies have concluded that there is not a 
simple answer as to whether plantations (including exotic species) are bad for 
biodiversity68. Nonetheless, in order to manage plantations sustainably, efforts should be 
made by managers to consider adjustments to improve biodiversity. In many cases 
sustainable plantation management is already taking into account the wider landscape, 
even enhancing biodiversity by providing for protection of sensitive sites and creating 
wildlife corridors between areas of natural. Even without increasing species diversity: It 
has been suggested that even small adjustments in management such as thinning earlier, 
increasing rotation length, or leaving areas of retention wood can increase biodiversity69. 
The use of monocultures may also have an impact on growth and carbon storage, with 
some evidence that mixed stands have the same or greater growth than monocultures70. 
This and the potential reduced resilience of monocultures mean that consideration is 
necessary as to whether monocultures continue to be sustainable. In many cases already, 
there is a movement away from monocultures with management trending toward planting 
a diversity of species, because it is suggested as best practice, or required for certification 
or by law to gain harvesting licences76. 
Initiatives such as the New Generations Plantation (NGP) platform started by WWF in 
200771 represent good examples of how plantations can address these concerns. The 
                                                 
 
64 Berg & Karjalainen, 2003, Comparisons of greenhouse gas emissions from forest operations in 
Finland and Sweden, Forestry 76(3) 
65 Felton et al., 2010, Replacing coniferous monocultures with mixed-species production stands: An 
assessment of the potential benefits for forest biodiversity in northern Europe, Forest Ecology and 
Management 260(6) 
66 Brokerhoff et al., 2008, Plantation forests and biodiversity: oxymoron or opportunity?, Biodiversity 
and Conservation 17(5) 
67 Humphrey et al., 2009, The potential contribution of conifer plantations to the UK Biodiversity 
Action Plan, Botanical Journal of Scotland 54(1) 
68 Parotta et al., 2006, Planted forests and biodiversity, Journal of Forestry 104(2) 
69 Hartley, 2002, Rationale and methods for conserving biodiversity in planation forests, Forest Ecology 
and Management 155(1-3) 
70 Hulvey et al., 2013, Benefits of tree mixes in carbon plantings, Nature Climate Change 3 
71 WWF, New Generation Plantations, available at: www.newgenerationplanations.org 
 
SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT 
 
 
Final Report – 09 October 2018 
Drax Power Ltd 
25 
 
PÖYRY MANAGEMENT CONSULTING 
NGP includes many participant plantations globally, all with sustainable forest 
management based on four key principles: 
- 
Maintain ecosystem integrity 
- 
Protect and enhance high conservation values 
- 
Be developed through effective stakeholder involvement processes 
- 
Contribute to economic growth and employment 
 
3.2.2 
Harvesting practices 
Harvesting and thinning will usually require the use of machinery, which is the safest and 
most efficient approach for felling trees. However, using heavy machinery can lead to 
negative consequences in forest soils, such as compaction increasing runoff and 
erosion72. Additionally machinery will release carbon emissions when operating, and can 
further release carbon through soil disturbance. Using appropriately sized machines 
equipped with the suitable wheels can help to reduce the disturbance. Additional on-site 
actions are also undertaken in sustainable forest management to reduce harvesting 
impact. These include using and maintaining brash mats to reduce machinery rutting and 
disturbing soil73, carefully planning harvesting and extraction routes based on underlying 
topography, and management of on-site water through maintenance and establishment of 
drains and watercourse crossings by installing pipes or culverts74, and installing 
sedimentation controls such as silt fences75. In many cases consideration and action to 
avert damage is now required by national forest standards in order to gain harvest 
licences (e.g. UK76).  
Another criticism can be that harvesting is too intense, and more wood is harvested than 
is allowed to regrow, potentially reducing the overall carbon store. While this should not 
occur in sustainably managed forests there are instances where in a given year the 
volume removed may exceed growth: storm damage in a year could require salvaging 
bringing more volume out of the forest than was anticipated, thus requiring reductions in 
future years or conversely, weather conditions may reduce harvest operations in one year, 
meaning that volumes may be adjusted upwards in the next year to ensure the 
sustainability of businesses reliant on receiving an adequate wood volume. By balancing 
over longer time periods the overall impact in terms of carbon can be balanced and 
sustainable. An example of this is the allowable annual cut setting in British Columbia 
                                                 
 
72 Cambi et al., 2015, The impact of heavy traffic on forest soils: A review, Forest Ecology and 
Management 338 
73 Hutchings et al. 2006, Soil compaction under timber harvesting machinery: a preliminary report on 
the role of brash mats in its prevention, Soil Use and Management 18(1) 
74 The Forestry Commission, 2005, Protecting the environment during mechanised harvesting 
operations, Technical Note 
75 Ontario Woodlot Association, 2009, A landowner’s guide to careful logging 
76 The Forestry Commission, 2017, The UK Forestry Standard available at: 
http://www.forestry.gov.uk/publications 
 
SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT 
 
 
Final Report – 09 October 2018 
Drax Power Ltd 
26 
 
PÖYRY MANAGEMENT CONSULTING 
which are typically set over a 10 year period77, though can be adjusted by the chief 
forester as necessary to ensure sustainability. 
3.3 
Wider potential benefits of active forest management  
Throughout the last sections it has been possible to see an indication that active, 
sustainable forest management can have benefits beyond simply increasing the 
productivity of forest stands. Here we provide further insight into what these benefits may 
be. Additional commentary with more specific examples is also provided in each of the 
case studies in Section 4. 
3.3.1 
Economic benefits 
Managing forests for wood production leads to job and income creation: both directly in  
forest management and throughout the associated forest value chain. The World Bank 
states that the formal timber sector contributes 600 billion USD to the global economy, 
and is responsible for 54.2 million jobs: 13.2 million formally and 41 million informally78. 
In particular, forest management is of benefit to rural economies, which have recently 
struggled with aging populations and low employment rates79. Examples such as Sweden 
show how local economies have been enhanced by the presence of more active forest 
management80, and conversely mill closures and reduced management in the US South 
have been shown to cause economic hardship81 and results in migration away from rural 
areas. 
Taxation can also be generated and help to foster further sustainable forest management, 
and allow for further environmental and social benefits such as outreach and protection of 
primary forests, although taxes must be carefully calibrated to be effective82. In the US 
South almost all States have some kind of severance tax for felled timber83 with many 
ring-fencing income for local roads and schools. 
3.3.2 
Social benefits 
In addition to job creation active forest management creates other social benefits. 
Sustainable forest management has been shown in Indonesia to have reduced firewood 
                                                 
 
77 Government of British Columbia, 2017, Timber Supply Review Backgrounder, 
https://www2.gov.bc.ca/gov/content/industry/forestry/managing-our-forest-resources/timber-supply-review-
and-allowable-annual-cut 
78 The World Bank, 2016, Forests Generate Jobs and Incomes, Brief available at: 
http://www.worldbank.org/en/topic/forests/brief/forests-generate-jobs-and-incomes 
79 European Commission, 2017, CAP Context Indicators 2014-2020, available at: 
https://ec.europa.eu/agriculture/cap-indicators/context/2017_en 
80 Hillring, 2002, Rural development and bioenergy-experiences from 20 years of development in 
Sweden, Biomass and Bioenergy 23(6) 
81 Brandeis & guo, 2016, Decline in the pulp and paper industry: effects on backward-linked forest 
industries and local economies, Forest Products Journal 66(1-2) 
82 Karsenty, 2010, Forest taxation regime for tropical forests: lessons from Central Africa, International 
Forestry Review 12(2) 
83 National Conference of State Legislatures, State Severance Taxes, available at: 
http://www.ncsl.org/research/fiscal-policy/2011-state-severance-tax-collections.aspx#KS 
 
SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT 
 
 
Final Report – 09 October 2018 
Drax Power Ltd 
27 
 
PÖYRY MANAGEMENT CONSULTING 
dependence, respiratory infections and malnutrition84 (partly through environmental 
benefits), and many certified plantations in the developing world have social development 
plans including education, healthcare and primary forest protection through engagement 
with local communities (e.g. Green Resources in East Africa85, Miro Forestry in West 
Africa86, and Proteak in Mexico87). 
The recreational value of forests should be acknowledged and forest management can 
help facilitate recreational access through both creating more forest area near to 
populations or the development of roads and trails88, and through the process of 
sustainable forest management areas with greater value for recreation might be identified 
and dedicated to this use rather than productive use89. 
3.3.3 
Environmental benefits 
One of the main benefits of active forest management is that it can reduce pressure on 
primary or other forests with high environmental value. Many tropical hardwoods can be 
grown in plantations and such plantations have been mentioned as a way of meeting 
demand for tropical hardwoods without having to negatively impact natural forests90. 
Active forest management may even increase the protection of natural forests as 
communities may become more engaged with forest issues91. 
As has been previously mentioned, unmanaged forests are more prone to disturbances 
than managed forests. For example during a wildfire there is less dead and dying wood in 
a managed forest compared to unmanaged forests. Thus management can help stop fires 
reaching critical sizes and ending up a threat to life and property. In the event of a 
disturbance the carbon-release can be higher in unmanaged forests as the carbon 
storage can be higher than managed forests (see next section). A natural disturbance 
may release more carbon to the atmosphere than if the forest was harvested.92 
Active forest management has also been stated by the FAO as a potential remedy to 
genetic erosion that is being seen in forests around the world93. Genetic erosion is the 
process by which the gene pools of species diminish because individuals fail to reproduce 
                                                 
 
84 Miteva et al., 2015, Social and Environmental Impacts of Forest Management Certification in 
Indonesia, PLoS One 10(7) 
85 Green Resources, 2017, Directors’ Report 2016/2017 
86 Miro Forestry Company, 2016, Annual Report 
87 Proteak, 2016, Annual Report 
88 Cho et al., 2014, Effects of travel cost and participation in recreational activities on national forest 
visits, Forest Policy and Economics 40 
89 Scarpa et al., 2000, Valuing the recreational benefits from the creation of nature reserves in Irish 
forests, Ecological Economics 33(2) 
90 Varmola & Carle, 2002, The importance of hardwood plantations in the tropics and sub-tropics, 
International Forestry Review 42(2) 
91 The Forests Dialogue, 2018, Key Lessons for Community Engagement in Forest Landscapes: 
Learning from 17 Years of TFD’s Initiatives 
92 Lippke et al., 2001,  Life cycle impacts of forest management and wood utilization on carbon 
mitigation: knowns and unknowns, Carbon Management  2:3 
93 FAO, 2014, The state of the World’s forest genetic resources 
 
SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT 
 
 
Final Report – 09 October 2018 
Drax Power Ltd 
28 
 
PÖYRY MANAGEMENT CONSULTING 
before they die. In turn by actively managing semi-natural forests and reducing genetic 
erosion can lead to genetic improvements in productivity. 
3.4 
Consequences of the absence of forest management  
3.4.1 
General consequences 
The previous section detailed the wider benefits of active forest management, but it is also 
important to consider a situation in the absence of forest management. In addition to the 
obvious absence of the benefits discussed above there are potentially more impactful 
consequences. The absence of forest management also implies an absence of harvesting 
and hence absence (or at least reduction) of forest industry. 
The absence of forest management is not likely to lead to an absence of forest harvesting: 
illegal logging is already widespread throughout the world in both developed and 
developing countries94 and it would be unlikely that the absence of forest management 
(and hence associated forest value chain) would stop this occurring. As previously 
mentioned, forest management can remove the pressure of illegal logging in areas of 
primary forest, and can provide generally more oversight and engagement in the 
protection of primary forest resources95. 
A corollary of removing (or vastly reducing) forest products from the market is that other 
products must be used in their place. Construction is a major wood product consumer, 
and in the absence of wood, reliance would have to be more heavily placed on metals and 
concrete which have negative carbon impacts, and likewise having to revert to fossil fuels 
in the absence of the biomass created throughout the forest value chain would have 
negative impacts96. 
However, there are also potential benefits to the absence of forest management, with 
some studies indicating higher biodiversity in unmanaged forests97,98. 
On balance it is unlikely that such a drastic measure would be taken globally, but this 
illustrates that the absence of forest management in itself is not a sustainable proposition. 
3.4.2 
Carbon consequences in forest storage 
In addition to the general consequences, it is important to understand the differences in 
carbon storage and sequestration rate between managed and unmanaged forests. It is of 
note that there is still much debate in the scientific literature concerning the differences, 
further confounded by a changing climate99. However, there are some general trends that 
are apparent concerning the differences and they are discussed here. 
                                                 
 
94 FAO, 2005, Best practices for improving law compliance in the forest sector 
95 Hansen & Trueue, 2008, Assessing illegal logging in Ghana,  International Forestry Review10(4) 
96 Oliver et al., 2014, Carbon, Fossil Fuel, and Biodiversity Mitigation with wood and forests, Journal of 
Sustainable Forestry 33 
97 Paillet et al., 2010, Biodiversity differences between managed and unmanged forests: meta-analysis 
of species richness in Europe, Conservation Biology 24(1) 
98 Brunet et al., 2010, Biodiversity in Europena beech forests – a review with recommendations for 
sustainable forest management, Ecological Bulletins 53 
99 Bellassen & Luyssaert, 2014, Carbon sequestration: Managing forests in uncertain times, Nature 506 
 
SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT 
 
 
Final Report – 09 October 2018 
Drax Power Ltd 
29 
 
PÖYRY MANAGEMENT CONSULTING 
3.4.2.1 Differences in carbon storage versus sequestration rate 
The carbon storage and the sequestration rate are important factors to be considered. 
Carbon is constantly being released by anthropogenic activity such as burning fossil fuels, 
therefore it is desirable to be actively sequestering more carbon in forests through time. 
As forests grow they sequester carbon and store it in woody material.  
In the case of an unmanaged stand, sequestration will continue as the stand grows 
through time. However, as the volume in the unmanaged stand reaches the asymptote (as 
described in Section 3.1.1) while the stand will represent a large carbon store, the rate of 
sequestration will be balanced by respiration, mortality and decomposition in the stand 
causing a net sequestration of zero. It is even possible that an unmanaged stand may 
become a net carbon source if carbon emissions exceed sequestration.  
This can be compared to a managed stand, which will be harvested at some point prior to 
reaching the asymptote in growth. The trees that are harvested can be converted to 
products which continue to store carbon, and the area that was harvested is replanted 
with new trees that will continue to sequester carbon. 
This is illustrated in Figure 3: while carbon storage and sequestration rate from forest 
establishment are similar during the earlier stages of growth for both managed and 
unmanaged stands for both broadleaved species and conifers100, in the long term 
managed forests are shown to sequester more carbon over a 180 year period. It is also 
important to note that while the unmanaged stand growth is tapering off in line with an 
asymptote, the managed forests have a sustained rate of carbon sequestration. 
                                                 
 
100 Klein et al., 2013, The Contribution of Managed and Unmanaged Forests to Climate Change 
Mitigation—A Model Approach at Stand Level for the Main Tree Species in Bavaria, Forests 4 
 
SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT 
 
 
Final Report – 09 October 2018 
Drax Power Ltd 
30 
 
PÖYRY MANAGEMENT CONSULTING 
Figure 3: Total carbon storage in spruce and beech following planting in managed 
and unmanaged stands 
 
Source: Klein et al. (2013) 
While this study considers the difference between unmanaged (or minimally managed) 
and managed stands at the stand level it is also important to understand what is 
happening at a larger forest or landscape scale. At the larger regional scale the impact of 
harvest removal in individual forest stands can be offset by the fact that harvest removals 
in sustainable management are usually below the average growth of an area. Other 
stands in the forest are left, continuing to grow and sequester carbon. 
This was demonstrated by a simulation of the carbon balance (net difference between 
sequestration and emission of carbon) in a 147 ha Finnish forest consisting of pine, 
spruce and birch.  The study considered both in-forest and forest product carbon to 
demonstrate that the perceived carbon benefit of unmanaged forests is mostly a function 
of the length of time considered101. Four scenarios were considered: 
1. Unmanaged, with no cutting (No cutting) 
2. Harvesting 4000m3 from the forest over each 10 year period, equivalent to a 
harvest of 50% of the volume increment over that period (Cut 4000 m3) 
3. Harvesting all of the volume increment from the forest in each 10 year period (Cut 
growth) 
4. An uneven harvest level which initially increased and then decreased harvest until 
the end of the 12th 10 year period when harvesting ceases (Unequal cut) 
                                                 
 
101 Pukkala, 2017, Does management improve the carbon balance of forestry?, Forestry 90(1) 
 
SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT 
 
 
Final Report – 09 October 2018 
Drax Power Ltd 
31 
 
PÖYRY MANAGEMENT CONSULTING 
Simulation of these scenarios can be seen in Figure 4, where the unmanaged stand 
represents the highest level of sequestration over 120 years, after which all other 
scenarios exceeded the carbon balance of the unmanaged stand. This is a result of the 
growth of the forecast stands in unmanaged forest reaching their asymptotes for growth, 
and a carbon balance of zero. Meanwhile, the scenarios with harvesting occurring are 
constantly experiencing replanting, which will sequester further carbon in growth. It is 
possible to see that because not all areas are lost at the forest scale due to harvesting 
that there are no great increases or drops in the carbon balance, because losses in 
harvested areas are offset by other areas in the forest which continue to grow and 
sequester carbon. Indeed, after approximately 170 years the more intense harvesting 
regime (Cut growth) even exceeds the carbon balance of the more conservative lower 
harvesting level. 
Figure 4: Carbon balance of a typical Finnish forest under different management 
regimes over 200 years 
 
Source: Pukkala, 2017101 
To demonstrate this further another scenario was forecast with only a single heavy 
harvest in 10th 10 year forecast period. While this led to a negative carbon balance 
(carbon was being emitted from the forest) for 30 years, it eventually reached a point 
where the carbon balance exceeded the unmanaged regime (Figure 5). This recovery in 
sequestration was achieved despite emissions from harvesting and the use of some of the 
extracted wood in short life products (e.g. pulp) or as bioenergy, because of the increased 
areas within the forest assumed to be replanted increasing the rate of carbon 
sequestration. 
 
SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT 
 
 
Final Report – 09 October 2018 
Drax Power Ltd 
32 
 
PÖYRY MANAGEMENT CONSULTING 
Figure 5: Carbon balance of a typical Finnish forest with a single period of intense 
harvesting versus and unmanaged regime 
 
Source: Pukkala, 2017101 
Another study at the regional scale considered all loblolly pine plantations in the US 
South102. Simulations of growth for 50 years under both unmanaged and managed 
scenarios showed that an unmanaged scenario achieved on average a cumulative carbon 
sequestration 40 tonnes/ha greater than simple forest management. However more 
intensive management scenario (including planting of genetically improved material, 
fertilisation and understory management) resulted in a combined storage in forest and 
products approaching the unmanaged scenario. Undoubtedly over a longer time period 
the intensively managed scenario would grow to exceed the unmanaged stands 
cumulative carbon sequestration. 
Therefore while unmanaged (shut-the-gate) scenarios for forests may initially seem to 
provide a large carbon store, when considered over longer periods, at regional scales, it is 
apparent that sustainable forest management results in a greater level of carbon 
sequestration. The timescale over which this tipping point is reached is likely to be a 
function of species growth rates and management which increases growth rates can 
further reduce the time to exceed the sequestration of unmanaged stands.  
It is clear that sustainable forest management should be favoured in active forests as a 
carbon-optimal approach to forestry103, and that reforestation with managed forests 
provides greater carbon storage than unmanaged forests.  
 
                                                 
 
102 Wang et al. 2010, Long-term simulations of forest management impacts on carbon storage from 
loblolly pine plantations in the Southern U.S., Joint Meeting of the Forest Inventory and Analysis (FIA) 
Symposium and the Southern Mensurationists 
103 Krug et al., 2012, Revaluing unmanaged forests for climate change mitigation, Carbon Balance and 
Management 7(11) 
 
SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT 
 
 
Final Report – 09 October 2018 
Drax Power Ltd 
33 
 
PÖYRY MANAGEMENT CONSULTING 
4. 
SFM CASE STUDIES 
4.1 
US South 
The US South has been selected as a case study because it demonstrates how changing 
the forest management system of an existing forest area, from exploitatively harvesting 
areas of natural forest to more intensive management of plantations has increased above 
ground forest carbon stocks over historic levels with minimal change to forest area. 
In this study US South is shown in Figure 6, as defined  by the U.S. Forest Service 
including the 13 states: Alabama, Arkansas, North Carolina, South Carolina, Florida, 
Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, Oklahoma, Tennessee, Texas and Virginia.  
Figure 6: US South States 
 
4.1.1 
Forest Industry Overview 
The forest area in the US South comprises both hardwood and softwood areas which 
were historically managed by the indigenous population by the practice of large scale 
burning to create grazing for hunting ground. This process was repeated by the early 
European settlers who burnt large areas to create space for grazing and other agriculture. 
The forest industry in the US South dates back to the development of steam powered 
sawmills that were used by the Europeans settlers who harvested the best quality mature 
areas of forest and left those areas to naturally regenerate. However, forestry 
management practices in the region transitioned in the mid-20th century by becoming 
more intensive and focused on producing a sustainable supply of good quality timber. This 
was led by growing wood fibre demand in the regions that were developing wood 
processing industries (e.g pulpmills and wood based panel mills as well as more modern 
sawmills).  
Over that transition the ownership of forestland in the US South has remained largely in 
private control: around 86% of the total forest land in the region is under private ownership 
(including 90% of the forestland designated as timberland; defined as forest land that 
 
SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT 
 
 
Final Report – 09 October 2018 
Drax Power Ltd 
34 
 
PÖYRY MANAGEMENT CONSULTING 
is/capable of producing yield of at least 1.4 m³/ha/year ) of which 31% belongs to private 
corporations (which has been mostly converted to plantations) and 69% to individuals. 
The state owns around 14% within national forest or other public designations104. The 
private corporate ownership is split between integrated forest companies and institutional 
investors, the later who began acquiring timberland in the 1970s from forestry companies 
who were selling off forestland in order to raise capital to expand processing capacities. In 
more recent years institutional investors instead have favoured to invest via forest 
organisations call timberland investment management organisations (TIMOs) which hold 
and manage timberlands for investors. Forestry companies that did not wish to completely 
divest have also largely moved to holding their forestland in Real Estate Investment Trusts 
(REITs) which have tax advantages. REITs may be publicly traded and provide another 
avenue for institutional investment in forestland.  
The timber utilising industry in the US South is now significant and the main consuming 
industry of wood fibre is that of pulp, followed by sawmills, wood based panel mills, pellet 
mills and bioenergy. Pulpmills and pellet mills produce goods mainly for the export market 
whilst sawmills are largely driven by domestic demand from the construction sector, with 
softwood sawnwood used for timber framing and hardwood sawnwood for interior 
surfaces and furniture. 
 
4.1.2 
Forestry development 
4.1.2.1 Total forest area 
Since the 1920’s the total reported area of forest land has been reasonably stable (Figure 
7), fluctuating between 89 – 99 million ha between assessments. In 2015 around two 
thirds (64%) of the forest area was hardwood forest and around one third (34%) was 
softwood. The proportion of timberland has also been stable, at around 86% of the total 
forest area between 1920 and 2012. Since the 1950s the proportion of reserved 
timberland has increased to around 2% of the total forest area by 2012, this area is 
protected from timber harvesting105.  
                                                 
 
104 Wear, 2014, Forest Managemnet and Timber Production in the US South, Working paper of the 
Southeastern Centre for Forest Economics Reseach 
105 Oswalt & Smith, 2014, US Forest Resource Facts and Historical Trends, US Department of 
Agriculture, Forest Service 
 
SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT 
 
 
Final Report – 09 October 2018 
Drax Power Ltd 
35 
 
PÖYRY MANAGEMENT CONSULTING 
Figure 7: US South Forest area 1920-2012 
 
4.1.2.2 Yield 
As more intensive management has been increasing in the US South, the yield of wood 
fibre from forests has also increased. For example, the average maximum mean annual 
increment of softwood plantations has increased by around 14 times by 2010 compared 
with that of natural forest rotations harvested in the 1940s106.  
                                                 
 
106 Fox et al., 2004, The evolution of pine plantation silviculture in the Southern United States, US 
Department of Agriculture, Forest Service, Southern Research Station 
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
Area (million ha) 
Non timberland unreserved forest
Reserved forest
Timberland
 
SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT 
 
 
Final Report – 09 October 2018 
Drax Power Ltd 
36 
 
PÖYRY MANAGEMENT CONSULTING 
Figure 8: US South average harvest volume and rotation length 1940-2010 
 
Note: data for 1940 is harvesting a natural forest on a 50 year rotation which has since been replaced by increasingly 
productive plantations as the source of harvested timber. 
4.1.2.3 Growth to removal ratio 
Despite the development of the forest industry in the region, inventories since 1952 show 
that total growth has always exceeded the rate of removals despite increasing demand 
from industries. In recent years since 2010 there has been more than 50% more growth in 
the forest than the volume removed through harvesting activities105. 
Figure 9: US South historical increment to removal  
 
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
0
50
100
150
200
250
Rotation length (years) 
Harvest volume (m³/ha) 
Natural forest
Plantation
Rotation length
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
450
500
million m³/yr 
Increment
Removals
 
SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT 
 
 
Final Report – 09 October 2018 
Drax Power Ltd 
37 
 
PÖYRY MANAGEMENT CONSULTING 
4.1.2.4 Forest growing stock / above ground carbon 
Since the mid-20th century the carbon stock in the US South is estimated to have 
increased by 69% by 1997107. While there are not any recently published values for the 
current state of US South forest carbon storage, the national forest estate has been 
reported to have increased approximately 20% between 1998 and 2013108 which is likely 
to be indicative of what the maximum increase that could have occurred over the same 15 
years to a potential store of approximately 6,700 million t C above ground. 
The increasing forest productivity over the last few decades has been accompanied with 
rising average annual temperatures and increasing amounts of drought across the 
Southern States, which would likely have reduced gains in productivity without 
management activity. Climate variables exert a strong influence over site productivity and 
thus also carbon sequestration.  
It has been estimated that the southern forests contain 30% of the carbon stock and 
account for 36% of annual carbon sequestration of the whole US.109 
Figure 10: US South above ground carbon 1957-1997 
 
4.1.3 
Forest management practices 
In recent years sustainable forest management practices have been responsible for 
increasing the forest carbon stock. These have included silvicultural interventions 
implemented throughout the duration of the rotation, to better establish and develop the 
                                                 
 
107 Mickler et al., 2004,  Forest carbon trends in the Southern United States, Southern forest science:past, 
present, and future 
108 US Forest Service, 2015, Baseline estimates of carbon stocks in forests and harvested wood products 
for nation forest system units (Two baselines: 1990-2013, 2005-2013), Southern Region 
109 Johnsen, K.H. et al., 2014, Productivity and carbon sequestration of forests in the southern United 
States. In: Climate change adaption and mitigation management options A guide for natural resource 
managers in southern forest ecosystems CRC Press 
0
1000
2000
3000
4000
5000
6000
million t Carbon 
 
SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT 
 
 
Final Report – 09 October 2018 
Drax Power Ltd 
38 
 
PÖYRY MANAGEMENT CONSULTING 
desirability and uniformity of trees left for future harvesting. This was a fundamental shift 
from the historical approach of exploitatively removing the best trees at clearfelling, and 
leaving the poorer stems stands from which the stand was expected to naturally 
regenerated from. This process is sometimes referred to as ‘high grading’. The result of 
this approach was a negative feedback loop whereby the poorer and poorer genetic 
material is artificially selected to reproduce by subsequent harvests, generating degraded 
forests.  
The specific management interventions applied to hardwood and softwood forests 
respectively differ slightly due to growth rates, site conditions and the favoured and 
targeted end use market for the timber. Generally the silviculture of hardwood stands 
involves weeding and thinning out less desirable trees. Harvesting is through clearcutting, 
shelterwood or selective systems, and regeneration is natural based on seeds provided by 
retention wood110. Softwood stands are also thinned: First and second thinnings are 
conducted in the majority of the forests in industrial use at 10-20 years and 16-30 years, 
respectively. Final harvest is usually by clear cutting, with managed stands reaching 
harvest age much sooner than unmanaged stands. Increasingly regeneration of softwood 
plantations is through planting of native species following ground preparation. 
Unlike the other case studies, the Federal government has rather little authority on private 
forest land, and the owners are free to sell the land or change the way it is used. 
However, lower level (State, County and Parish) forest management laws vary, but none 
have set annual allowable harvest levels for private forestland, which potentially has 
implications for overharvesting as discussed in Section 3.2.2. 
4.1.4 
Wider benefits of SFM 
The active, productive forest ecosystems in the US South provide a wide variety of social, 
environmental and economic benefits: water and air quality management, recreation, 
wildlife habitat, timber and fibre production and natural beauty. Looking back at the history 
of exploitative high grading, it is apparent that sustainable forest management has been a 
key factor in both realising and increasing these benefits.  
The forest industry is a significant employer in the US South providing a livelihood for 
around 200,000 people in 2016, of which 16% were involved in forestry and logging 
(including timber transport), 81% in wood processing industries and 3% in support roles. 
Without continued sustainable forest management, rural areas are sure to suffer as a 
result of increased unemployment and/or migration away in search of employment, and 
consequent reduced tax incomes impacting local services. 
 
Sustainable forest management practices in the US South have been shown to provide 
habitat for native birds and mammals111. Biodiversity is important in the forest ecosystem 
acting as natural checks on pests (of commercial trees) as well as providing recreational 
value to visitors of the forest. The mosaic effect at landscape scale of patches of 
                                                 
 
110 Hicks et al., 2004, Silviculture and management strategies applicable to southern hardwoods, US 
Department of Agriculture, Forest Service, Southern Research Station 
111 Allen et al., 1996, Pine Plantations and Widlife in the Southeastern United States: An Assessment of 
Impacts and Opportunities, US Department of the Interior, National Biological Service Report 
 
SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT 
 
 
Final Report – 09 October 2018 
Drax Power Ltd 
39 
 
PÖYRY MANAGEMENT CONSULTING 
plantations at different stages of development provides suitable habitat characteristics for 
them to live in: for example the higher level of ground cover in recently thinned stands or 
the density of the canopy in more mature forest will favour or deter different woodland 
species respectively. Likewise water and air quality is also improved by the presence of 
sustainably managed forests.  
While undoubtedly unmanaged forest stands could provide these ecosystem services, 
these stands would be left more susceptible to natural disturbance, and potentially ill-
equipped to adjust to the changing climate, and would not be producing timber and fibre 
that provide economic and social benefits, replacing non-renewable alternatives. 
 
Since the majority of forestland in the US South is under private ownership, the absence 
of forest management and harvest incomes would also put the land at risk from potentially 
more profitable uses such as agriculture or urban development, especially given the 
somewhat limited regulation on land-use in the South. Urban development in the South 
has been relatively high since the mid-20th century due to climate and socio-economic 
factors, and this has been highlighted as a risk which might cause fragmentation of the 
forest leading to a reduction in the ecosystem services garnered112. The continued 
sustainable management of the forest based on an income for timber and wood products 
would mitigate this risk. 
4.2 
Finland  
Finland has a long history of forest management and is considered by many to be at the 
forefront of sustainable forestry practices. Finnish forest management is based on forest 
regeneration after final felling. Sustainable forestry relies on decades of research 
searching to determine the best forest management practices, which are constantly being 
developed. 
Only a few centuries ago Finnish forests were severely degraded as forests were 
converted into agricultural land and trees were cut for profit without implementing any 
forest management practices after the felling. Since then the regeneration of forests has 
been carried out by implementing forest management practices.113 
4.2.1 
Forest Industry Overview 
Over the last few decades forest ownership structure has remained the same. Most of the 
forests are privately owned (61%), 25% of forests are owned by state, 8% by companies 
and 5% by other owners.114   
                                                 
 
112 Alig et al., 2010, Conversions of forest land: trends, determinants, projections, and policy 
considerations, In Pye et al. Advances in threat assessment and their applications to forest and rangeland 
management, Gen. Tech. Rep, US Forest Service 
113 Gelman et al., 2013, HENVI Workshop 2013: Interdisciplinary approach to forests and climate 
change, Helsinki University Centre for Environment, HENVI 
114 Luke, 2013, Ownership of forest land (1000 ha) by inventory, region and ownership category, 
Statistics database. Available at: 
http://statdb.luke.fi/PXWeb/pxweb/en/LUKE/LUKE__04%20Metsa__06%20Metsavarat/1.07_Metsamaa_om
istajaryhmittain.px/?rxid=dc711a9e-de6d-454b-82c2-74ff79a3a5e0 
 
SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT 
 
 
Final Report – 09 October 2018 
Drax Power Ltd 
40 
 
PÖYRY MANAGEMENT CONSULTING 
The main consumer of domestic wood is pulp industry (51%), which has been dominating 
the forest sector for decades. Wood processing industry consumes 37% of domestic 
wood, of which sawmill industry consumes 88%, and energy sector consumes 12%115.   
Many forest companies own forests, but the share of company-owned forests from total 
forest area is relatively low. For example UPM owns 570,000 hectares of forests in 
Finland, but less than 20% of its raw material comes from its own forests116. However, 
forest companies might also manage the forests of private owners. For example three 
Finland’s largest forest industry companies, Stora Enso, UPM and Metsä Group, all offer 
forestry services, such as forestry work, wood sales, drainage and tax services117. Even 
though companies own a small share of total forest area they are heavily engaged with 
the private forest owners. For example Stora Enso works with 50,000 private forest 
owners118. 
Wood industry by-products are efficiently used by both forest industry and energy sector. 
In 2016 almost 26 million m3 of forest industry by-products and waste wood was 
consumed. Nowadays many pulp and paper mills are integrated to plants that utilize by-
products to produce heat and electricity or for example chemicals119.  
In 2016 seedling stand management (24%), forest cultivation (20%) and forest 
improvement practices (17%) accounted for over 60 % of total forest management costs.  
Three quarters of forest cultivation area was planted and one quarter was seeded. From 
total forest felling area 22% was clear-cut and 4% was natural regeneration felling. The 
share of first thinnings was 21 % of total felling area and the share of other thinnings was 
47 %115. 
4.2.2 
Forestry development 
4.2.2.1 Total forest area 
Finland’s forests are mainly coniferous and pine is the dominant species. Finland’s forest 
area has remained in around 20 million hectares for decades. Figure 11 shows the forest 
area distribution over previous 10 years for coniferous and broadleaved forests in 
Northern and Southern Finland. Both the forest area and the species distribution have 
remained stable. 
                                                 
 
115 Luke, 2017, Ruoka- ja luonnonvaratilastojen e-vuosikirja 2017, Available at: 
https://jukuri.luke.fi/bitstream/handle/10024/540980/luke-luobio_81_2017.pdf?sequence=1&isAllowed=y 
116 UPM, 2018, Metsät merkitsevät niin paljon muutakin kuin puuta, Available at: 
http://www.upm.fi/vastuullisuus/metsat/metsat-puuviljelmat/Pages/default.aspx 
117 Metsälehti, 2018, Apua ja neuvoja metsänhoitoon: Palveluntarjoajat, Available at: 
https://www.metsalehti.fi/metsanomistus/uuden-metsanomistajan-tietopaketti/#palveluntarjoajat 
118 Palokallio, 2017, Stora Enson uusi metsäjohtaja tyytyväinen puukauppaan, Maaseudun tulevaisuus. 
Available at: https://www.maaseuduntulevaisuus.fi/mets%C3%A4/stora-enson-uusi-mets%C3%A4johtaja-
tyytyv%C3%A4inen-puukauppaan-1.186657 
119 Maa- ja metsätalousministeriö, 2018, Metsäteollisuus Suomessa, Available at: 
http://mmm.fi/metsat/puun-kaytto/metsateollisuus-suomessa 
 
SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT 
 
 
Final Report – 09 October 2018 
Drax Power Ltd 
41 
 
PÖYRY MANAGEMENT CONSULTING 
Figure 11: Forest area in Finland by type and region over previous 10 years 
 
Source: Luke120 
4.2.2.2 Maximum mean annual increment 
The mean annual increment has been increasing for decades for all main species in 
Finland. Productivity varies greatly between the North and South: in Southern Finland the 
average current annual increment for all spruce forest areas is around 2.6 m3/ha/yr, 
whereas in Northern Finland this drops to only 0.6 m3/ha/yr121. This is also seen in the 
maximum MAI ranges across Finland122. Figure 12 shows the typical ranges of maximum 
MAI for pine, spruce and birch: the most common species in Finland. Pine is the most 
productive species, and birch the least. The highest maximum MAI values represent the 
best growing sites in the southern coastal area, which contains only small forest areas. 
Most of the forests are located in areas where the climatic conditions are much less 
favourable than in the southern coastal region. 
 
 
                                                 
 
120 Luke, Tree species dominance and pure and mixed stands on forest land (1000 ha), Statistics 
database. Available at: 
http://statdb.luke.fi/PXWeb/pxweb/en/LUKE/LUKE__04%20Metsa__06%20Metsavarat/1.12_Puulajien_vall
itsevuus_ja_metsikoiden.px/?rxid=93caba1c-edc1-452e-a7d0-df28b5c670a0 
121 Luke, Mean annual increment of growing stock on forest land by inventory, region and tree species, 
Statistics database. Available at: 
http://statdb.luke.fi/PXWeb/pxweb/en/LUKE/LUKE__04%20Metsa__06%20Metsavarat/1.25_Puuston_keski
kasvu_metsamaalla.px/table/tableViewLayout1/?rxid=dc711a9e-de6d-454b-82c2-74ff79a3a5e0 
122 Hynynen et al., 2005, Tuottava metsänkasvatus, Metla 
0
5,000
10,000
15,000
20,000
25,000
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018
Thousand hectares 
Conifer Southern Finland
Conifer Northern Finland
Broadleaf Southern Finland
Broadleaf Northern Finland
 
SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT 
 
 
Final Report – 09 October 2018 
Drax Power Ltd 
42 
 
PÖYRY MANAGEMENT CONSULTING 
Figure 12: Maximum MAI ranges for the most prevalent conifer and broadleaved 
species in Finland 
 
Sources: Luke 121, Hynynen122 
4.2.2.3 Growth to removal ratio 
Since the 1970’s the average annual increment has been significantly higher than the 
harvests. Within the last decade the average increment in Finland’s forests has been over 
100 million m3 annually. Figure 13 shows the current level of mean forest increment and 
harvests for coniferous and broadleaved forests. Around 66 % of annual increment of 
conifers is harvested and almost 60 % of annual increment of broadleaf is harvested, 
which means that at least from timber production point of view forestry is sustainable. 
Figure 13: Forest average increment versus 2016 harvest 
 
Source: Luke123 124 
                                                 
 
123 Luke, Annual increment of growing stock on forest land and on poorly productive forest land by 
inventory, region and tree species, Statistics database. Available at: 
http://statdb.luke.fi/PXWeb/pxweb/en/LUKE/LUKE__04%20Metsa__06%20Metsavarat/1.24_Puuston_vuotu
inen_kasvu_metsa_ja_kitu.px/ 
0.0
1.0
2.0
3.0
4.0
5.0
6.0
7.0
8.0
9.0
Pine
Spruce
Birch
MAI m3/ha/year 
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
Conifer
Broadleaf
Million m3/year 
Increment
Harvest
 
SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT 
 
 
Final Report – 09 October 2018 
Drax Power Ltd 
43 
 
PÖYRY MANAGEMENT CONSULTING 
4.2.2.4 Forest growing stock  
Since the beginning of the 20th Century the volume of growing stock has increased from 
1500 million m3 to some 2500 million m3 even though forest area has remained nearly the 
same129. Figure 14 shows the development of forest growing stock in Finland over recent 
decades. Increase in forest growing stock is attributed to efficient regeneration and good 
forest management practices.   
Figure 14: Forest growing stock in Finland 
 
Source: Luke125 
According to the most recent national forest inventory (NFI12), that was carried out in 
2014-2016, annual forest growth was 109.9 million m3 126. Most of this growth comes from 
forests that are dedicated to forestry, as forest growth in protected forests is only 3 million 
m3 per year(the area for protected forests is much smaller than the area dedicated for 
forestry). Within the last decade, around 52 million m3 of wood has been harvested every 
year. The carbon stock in Finland’s forests has been growing 20-50 million tCO2 each 
year for the last 20 years.127 Carbon sequestration has been around 30 million tCO2 for 
                                                                                                                                                    
 
124 Luke, Annual increment of growing stock on forest land and on poorly productive forest land by 
inventory, region and tree species, Statistics database. Available at: 
http://statdb.luke.fi/PXWeb/pxweb/en/LUKE/LUKE__04%20Metsa__06%20Metsavarat/1.24_Puuston_vuotu
inen_kasvu_metsa_ja_kitu.px/table/tableViewLayout1/?rxid=dc711a9e-de6d-454b-82c2-74ff79a3a5e0 
125 Luke. Growing stock volume on forest land and poorly productive forest land by tree species. 
Statistics database. Available at: 
http://statdb.luke.fi/PXWeb/pxweb/en/LUKE/LUKE__04%20Metsa__06%20Metsavarat/1.16_Puuston_tilavu
us_metsa_ja_kitumaalla_pu.px/?rxid=dc711a9e-de6d-454b-82c2-74ff79a3a5e0 
126 Luke, 2017, Valtakunnan metsien inventointi: Puuston kasvu noussut edelleen – Pohjois-Suomessa 
metsät järeytyvät. Available at: https://www.luke.fi/uutiset/valtakunnan-metsien-inventoinnin-tulosjulkistus-
2017/ 
127 Sievänen et al., 2012. Suomen metsäenergia- ja hiilivarat ja niiden käyttö ilmastonmuutokseen 
sopeutumisessa. Metlan työraportteja 240 
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
1970
1980
1990
2000
2005
2010
2015
Million m3 
 
SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT 
 
 
Final Report – 09 October 2018 
Drax Power Ltd 
44 
 
PÖYRY MANAGEMENT CONSULTING 
the past 25 years128: Table 5 shows the annual forest carbon sequestration experienced in 
years 1990 – 2013129. According to a recent publication, the annual forest carbon 
sequestration is 28.3 million tCO2 130.  
Table 5: Annual forest carbon sequestration in Finland’s forests (million tCO2 
equivalents) 
  
1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2011 2012 2013 
Total forest land 
20.4 
19.6 
26.4 
37.8 
34.1 
32.9 
35 
26.4 
Harvested wood products 
4.3 
6.1 
8.2 
3.4 
3.9 
3.9 
3.4 
3.4 
Source: Seppälä, J.et al. (2015) 
4.2.3 
Forest management practices 
Only a few centuries ago Finland’s forests were heavily degraded, but due to forest 
management activities such as peatland drainage, fertilization, well-planned harvesting 
operations and effective regeneration Finland’s forests now containing more wood than at 
the beginning of the century. Within the last decades sustainability and biodiversity issues 
have been taken more into consideration, even in forest legislation. Nowadays forest 
management practises like peatland drainage, deep ploughing of forest soil and the use of 
herbicides have been forbidden. Forestry and felling operations are prevented in areas 
that are important for biodiversity preservation, and living and dead trees are left in felling 
areas to increase natural regeneration113. Dead trees are also important for forest 
biodiversity, and on productive forest land there is around 5.7 m3 of dead wood per 
hectare131, although this varies between the North and South of Finland126.  
Growing stock and forest growth has been increasing in Finland for the last 40 years and 
the reason for that is evolving forest management practices. Finnish forest legislation has 
been obligating forest regeneration by seeding or planting after final felling for over 100 
years132. The goal of regeneration is to “create a fully productive stand with a suitable 
species composition in a reasonable period of time”. Successful regeneration is attained 
by mechanical soil preparation and ensuring that other vegetation does not take living 
                                                 
 
128 Pohjala, P. 24.05.2017. Tutkijat yksimielisiä: Suomen metsien hiilivarastot kasvavat hallituksen 
biotaloussuunnitelmista huolimatta. Suomenmaa. Available at: https://www.suomenmaa.fi/uutiset/tutkijat-
yksimielisia-suomen-metsien-hiilivarastot-kasvavat-hallituksen-biotaloussuunnitelmista-huolimatta-
6.3.242393.d41ee6ef79 
129 Seppälä et al., 2015. Metsien hyödyntämisen ilmastovaikutukset ja hiilinielujen kehittyminen, 
Ilmastopaneelin raportti 3/2015 
130 Pohjala, 2017,  Luke: Metsien vuosittaiset hiilinielut huomattavasti luultua suuremmat, 
kaksinkertaistuvat edelliseen arvioon nähden, Maaseudun tulevaisuus. Available at: 
https://www.maaseuduntulevaisuus.fi/mets%C3%A4/luke-metsien-vuosittaiset-hiilinielut-huomattavasti-
luultua-suuremmat-kaksinkertaistuvat-edelliseen-arvioon-n%C3%A4hden-1.182142 
131 Luke, 2017, Finland’s forest facts 2017. Available at: https://www.luke.fi/wp-
content/uploads/2017/06/finlands-forests-facts-2017-www.pdf 
132 Luke, 2018, Metsänhoito, Available at: https://www.luke.fi/tietoa-luonnonvaroista/metsa/metsanhoito/ 
 
SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT 
 
 
Final Report – 09 October 2018 
Drax Power Ltd 
45 
 
PÖYRY MANAGEMENT CONSULTING 
space from the seedlings133. Forest regeneration is considered to be completed if the site 
contains a seedling stand within 10-25 years after the final felling. To achieve this state 
the seedling stand must be densely and evenly stocked, with an average height greater 
than 0.5 meters and no other vegetation should be an immediate threat to the seedlings 
growth134.   
While forest growth in Finland has increased during the past decades due to silvicultural 
activities other factors such as effective prevention of forest fires and other natural 
disasters have also increased forest growth. Increases in carbon sequestration are also a 
result of converting understocked forest stands towards full-stocking potential, expanding 
forest areas and improving knowledge regarding harvesting levels, harvest sites, rotation 
lengths and forest regeneration. This has largely been a result of years of focused 
research and development of decision support tools113. 
In addition to decision support tools, The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry finances a 
collection of forest management guidelines that can be downloaded for free by anyone: 
Tapio’s Best Practises for Sustainable Forest Management is aimed at forest owners to 
guide them toward forest management best practices. All these management practises 
are economically, ecologically and socially sustainable. These guidelines are created 
together with forest owners and multiple specialists among the forest, energy and 
environment sector. The guidelines differ depending on the tree species, soil type, growth 
habitat etc.135 .  
Although the level of forest management is very good in Finland, there are still 
improvements possible. Many forests experience delays to silvicultural operations: 
According to the latest national forest inventory there are 795,000 hectares of seedling 
stands that should have already been tended. In almost a million hectares of young 
forests the first thinning is late.126 If seedling stands are not tended in time it will decrease 
the possibilities of forest utilisation and carbon sequestration in the long term. This can 
importantly have a knock-on effect on forest owners harvesting income in the future, 
losing around 300-400 EUR per hectare. 
Sustainability issues and nature values play an important role in forestry legislation, 
recommendations, guidelines and certification in Finland, and this should ensure that 
forest management continues to improve and move towards even more sustainable 
practices. 
4.2.4 
Wider benefits of SFM 
The forest industry in Finland employs approximately 42,000 people directly and the entire 
value chain employs around 150,000, and as with the other case studies, these jobs are 
mostly concentrated in rural areas. Additionally Production from forests also accounts for 
                                                 
 
133 Luke, 2012, Main lines of forest management in Finland’s coniferous forest zone, State of Finland's 
Forests 2012: Finnish forests and forest management in a nutshell. Available at: 
http://www.metla.fi/metinfo/sustainability/SF-1-main-lines.htm 
134 Finlex, 2018, Metsälaki 8, Uudistamisvelvoitteen täyttäminen. Available at: 
http://www.finlex.fi/fi/laki/ajantasa/1996/19961093 
135 Tapio, 2014, Metsänhoidon suositukset, Metsätalouden kehittämiskeskus Tapio ja Metsäkustannus Oy. 
 
SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT 
 
 
Final Report – 09 October 2018 
Drax Power Ltd 
46 
 
PÖYRY MANAGEMENT CONSULTING 
over 20% of Finlands export value136. Thus loss of forest management would have severe 
consequences for the Finnish economy. 
Forests in Finland are not only used for timber production. They have many other uses, 
such as game and reindeer husbandry, berry and mushroom picking, recreation and 
nature tourism, protection of the environment and biodiversity of forest nature, and cultural 
value of forests. In the 21st century non-wood based productivity is mainly seen in reindeer 
husbandry, picking berries for commercial use, hunting and Christmas tree farming137. 
Without forest management access would be restricted and these activities may be 
difficult to conduct. 
Sustainable forestry enables timber production without pressuring forest biodiversity too 
much. Forest biodiversity is secured with Forest Biodiversity Programme called 
METSO138. METSO is a voluntary protection program for forest owners who want to 
protect the biodiversity of their forests. The program has specific targets for 2025. The 
plan is to reach 96,000 hectares of conserved area by 2025. Owners can voluntarily offer 
areas for private conservation area, state can acquire areas or the area can be placed 
under protection for a certain period of time139. Around 12 % of total forest area is 
protected, which equals to 2.7 million hectares of forests. The amount of protected forests 
has tripled over the past 40 years131.  
4.3 
United Kingdom  
The UK represents an interesting case because as recently as the beginning of the last 
century forest cover was at a low point of ~4.7% of total land area. It has since recovered 
due to a range of public and private afforestation efforts to a current level of ~13% of land 
area. 
Sustainable forest management is required for any commercial forestry operations, as a 
felling licences and grants cannot be obtained without government approved plans in 
place based on compliance with the UK Forestry Standard for sustainable forest 
management. Additionally, the government agencies associated with forestry strive to 
encourage wider adoption of forest management because of the wide benefits it brings. 
Sustainable forest management in the UK has been helping to transition plantations from 
monocultures to more mixed stands that are more resilient to natural disturbance from 
wind, pests and disease. In the absence of forest management, it is likely that legacy 
monocultures would be susceptible to such damage and associated losses would see 
carbon storage declining in the UK’s forests.  
                                                 
 
136 Finnish Forest Industries, 2016, Forest Industry, Available at: 
https://www.forestindustries.fi/statistics/forest-industry/ 
137 Lähtinen, 2010, Metsien eri käyttömuodoista saatavien hyötyjen taloudellinen arvo ja niihin liittyvä 
yritystoiminta Suomessa, Metsätieteen aikakauskirja 2/2010 
138 Maa- ja metsätalousministeriö, 2018, Talousmetsien monimuotoisuus, Available at: 
http://mmm.fi/talousmetsien-monimuotoisuus 
139 Metsonpolku, 2016, METSO – Etelä-Suomen metsien monimuotoisuusohjelma, Available at: 
http://www.metsonpolku.fi/fi-FI/METSOohjelma 
 
SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT 
 
 
Final Report – 09 October 2018 
Drax Power Ltd 
47 
 
PÖYRY MANAGEMENT CONSULTING 
4.3.1 
Forest Industry Overview 
Modern forestry in the UK has its origins since the First World War when a concerted 
effort was put into UK forestry. The Forestry Commission was established in 1919 to 
provide a strategic supply of timber to avoid importing in times of war140.  
Following the Second World War there was a boom in plantation expansion, with Sitka 
spruce being the preferred species due to its favourable growth in the UK climate. This 
first boom in planting was mostly accomplished by the Forestry Commission, with some 
grant schemes in place for private forest owners to establish forests. It was not until the 
1970s that private forestry really took off in the UK when grant and aid schemes were 
coupled with tax breaks for forest ownership. This afforestation mostly consisted of 
monocultures of exotic species such as Sitka spruce which grow particularly well in the 
UKs climate. These forests were mostly planted on drained upland sites: a practice which 
is now avoided to avoid excessive soil carbon release141. As a result the UK has been left 
with a legacy of these introduced stands, and a wider forest industry that is focused on 
production from them. 
In more recent years the rate of afforestation has declined, and new forest area 
established in the UK in the past couple of years has been less than 10,000 ha/yr142, 
although there are several projects aiming to increase afforestation in the UK (e.g. through 
woodland creation grants143). However, while afforestation (and reforestation) has seen a 
shift in recent years towards native broadleaf planting (see Figure 15), this may not 
continue to be sustainable due to the forest industries requirements for softwood. 
Forest ownership is split between the state and private owners as shown in Table 6. 
Private owners include owners of large historic estates, charitable trusts, forest investment 
funds, as well as smaller owners who have a variety of use objectives. While estimates 
suggest there are approximately 40,000 people with ownership of forestland >5ha in the 
UK, the largest areas of private ownership are concentrated in relatively few owners, with 
Scotland being reported as having some of the largest average forest holding size in 
Europe at 259 ha/owner144. 
Table 6: UK Forest ownership 
 
Area ('000 ha) 
Area (%) 
 
Conifer Broadleaf Conifer Broadleaf 
State-owned 
733 
130 
85% 
15% 
Private-owned 
885 
1,418 
38% 
62% 
Total 
1,618 
1,548 
 
 
Source: Forestry Commission142 
                                                 
 
140 Aldhous, 1997, British forestry: 70 years of achievement, Forestry, Vol. 70 
141 Cannell, 1999, Growing trees to sequester carbon in the UK: answers to some common questions, 
Forestry 72(3) 
142 Forestry Commission, 2017, Forestry Facts and Figures 2017, Forestry Commission Publications 
143 UK Government, 2017, £13 million fund to increase England’s woodland, Press release: 
https://www.gov.uk/government/news/13-million-fund-to-increase-englands-woodland 
144 Woodland  Trust, 2011, The State of the UK’s Forests, Woods and Trees: Perspectives from the 
sector 
 
SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT 
 
 
Final Report – 09 October 2018 
Drax Power Ltd 
48 
 
PÖYRY MANAGEMENT CONSULTING 
While the 3.2 million hectares of UK forest are split evenly between conifer and broadleaf, 
commercial forestry is almost entirely concentrated in conifer production with softwood, 
representing 95% of volume removed from forests in 2016145. The majority of wood is 
supplied by the private sector, although public forests provided between 41-46% of UK 
wood since 2012. 
The largest wood consuming industry in the UK is sawmilling. In 2017 sawmills consumed 
6.6 million green tonnes of UK grown roundwood in 2017, representing more than half of 
UK roundwood production (totalling 11.3 million green tonnes of softwood and 
hardwood)145. As mentioned above, sawmills are focused on softwood milling, with only a 
limited number of small hardwood mills. The next largest consumers are woodfuel (2.0 
million green tonnes), wood-based panels (1.2 million green tonnes), and pulp and paper 
(0.4 million green tonnes). The remaining 0.8 million green tonnes was consumed by 
round fencing, shavings and exported.  
Despite the increase in forest area over the past century, the UK is still heavily reliant on 
importing wood and wood products, with imports making up close to 80% of UK wood 
needs. 
4.3.2 
Forestry development 
4.3.2.1 Total forest area 
The total UK forest area is shown in Figure 15, with the vast majority of area being conifer 
plantations in Scotland and broadleaved woodland in England. Most gains in the past 
decade have been in broadleaved area, with some minor losses to coniferous areas which 
some in the forest industry have pointed to as a possible risk to sustainability of forest 
industry. Traditional wood processing industries need a consistent softwood volume to 
operate, and so ensuring a continued (and potentially expanded) conifer area is important 
and has been acknowledged by some areas of government146. 
Over the past decade English forests have increased the level of forest management from 
just under 50% of forests to 58% of forests152, broadleaved woodlands remain largely 
unmanaged. In Wales the proportion of active management increases to approximately 
66% of the area147 and while there is no apparent published proportion of forest actively 
managed, the high proportion of commercial conifer crops would suggest that it is higher 
still than the Welsh proportion. Northern Ireland likewise has no published area, but 
should sit within the same range as the rest of the UK. Goals are in place for some parts 
of the UK to increase active forest management and realising these goals presents an 
opportunity to increase carbon stocks in existing UK forests. 
                                                 
 
145 Forestry Commission, 2017, Forestry Statistics 2017, Forestry Commission Publications 
146 Tatchell-Evans, 2016, SPICe Briefing: Scottish Forestry 
147 Warren-Thomas & Henderson, 2017, Woodlands in Wales: a quick guide, National Assembly for Wales 
Research Service 
 
SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT 
 
 
Final Report – 09 October 2018 
Drax Power Ltd 
49 
 
PÖYRY MANAGEMENT CONSULTING 
Figure 15: Forest area in UK by country and type over previous 10 years 
 
4.3.2.2 Maximum mean annual increment 
The maximum MAI varies between species in the UK. Sitka spruce shows the highest 
maximum MAI of all species, which goes some way to explaining its prevalence in the UK. 
Some areas of Sitka plantations can achieve maximum MAI of 28 m3/ha/yr, the average 
productivity in the UK is around 14 m3/ha/yr in Sitka spruce. Other species, and especially 
broadleaved species have much lower maximum MAI as can be seen in Figure 16. This 
low productivity must be taken into consideration if managing woodlands for carbon 
storage is important, as it will take such species much longer to accumulate carbon, 
though by the time such species reach biologically optimal rotation age individual trees will 
represent much greater carbon stores.  
0
500
1,000
1,500
2,000
2,500
3,000
3,500
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
2017
Thousand hectares 
Broadleaf Northern Ireland
Broadleaf Wales
Broadleaf Scotland
Broadleaf England
Conifer Northern Ireland
Conifer Wales
Conifer Scotland
Conifer England
 
SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT 
 
 
Final Report – 09 October 2018 
Drax Power Ltd 
50 
 
PÖYRY MANAGEMENT CONSULTING 
Figure 16: Maximum MAI ranges for the most prevalent conifer and broadleaved 
species in the UK 
Source: Forestry Commission148 
4.3.2.3 Growth to removal ratio 
Annual increment for Great Britain (excluding Northern Ireland) over the past 5 years was 
estimated to be approximately 15.0 million m3/yr for conifers149 and an average of 6.1 
million m3/yr for broadleaves150. The harvest of conifers represents 57% of the annual 
increment, and the broadleaf harvest is <10% (Figure 17). With such a ratio in place it can 
be seen that the wood volume and carbon storage should continue to increase in the UK 
for the near future. Indeed, bringing more broadleaved forest into management could even 
increase the broadleaved increment further and allow for greater carbon accumulation. 
                                                 
 
148 Forestry Commission, 2011, Tree Species: A document listing the tree species included in the 2011 
Production Forecast 
149 Forestry Commission, 2012, GB 25-year forecast of standing coniferous volume and increment, NFI 
Statistical Analysis 
150 Forestry Commission, 2014, 50-year forecast of hardwood timber availability, NFI Statistical Analysis 
Report  
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
Sitka spruce
Scots pine
Oak
Beech
Maximum MAI m³/ha/year 
Min/Max
Average
 
SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT 
 
 
Final Report – 09 October 2018 
Drax Power Ltd 
51 
 
PÖYRY MANAGEMENT CONSULTING 
Figure 17: Forest average increment versus 2016 harvest level 
 
Source: Forestry Commission145,149,150 
4.3.2.4 Forest growing stock and above ground carbon 
Figure 18 shows how the annual harvest levels sitting lower than the annual increment 
has resulted in an increase in carbon storage in the UK’s forests since 1990. There has 
been a 77.5% increase in carbon storage above ground in this time. In addition to this 
carbon has also been reported as increasing in forests below-ground (roots), in dead 
wood and litter, and forest soils145. 
Figure 18: UK above ground forest carbon storage 
 
Source: Forestry Commission145  
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
Conifer
Broadleaf
Million m3/yr 
Increment
Harvest
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
180
200
1990
2000
2005
2010
2015
Million t C 
 
SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT 
 
 
Final Report – 09 October 2018 
Drax Power Ltd 
52 
 
PÖYRY MANAGEMENT CONSULTING 
4.3.3 
Forest management practices 
While historically the UK has relied heavily on monocultures of introduced species, greater 
public and stakeholder engagement in recent decades has led to adjustments in policy 
and support for forestry to shift away from this approach. Sustainable forest management, 
which also takes into account environmental and social aspects of forestry, whilst still 
allowing productivity to be enhanced has been a focus in the UK since before the turn of 
the century151. It is important to note that active forest management is encouraged by the 
Forestry Commission as a way of avoiding forests becoming vulnerable to deterioration 
and decline and is one of Forestry Commission England’s headline performance 
indicators152. 
The UK Forest Research agency publishes a wide range of decision support tools to help 
managers evaluate the impact of sustainable management practices such as the 
Ecological Site Classification tool to test species suitability, or the ForestGALES tool to 
evaluate wind risk to stands. Indicators of their adoption rate are positive153. 
It is important to note that devolution of the government organisations responsible for 
forestry has led to more focused strategies for each of the constituent countries of the 
UK154,155,156,157. Each country has differing economic, social, and environmental conditions 
which benefits from a more tailored approach to forest management. For example: 
England has a much larger proportion of broadleaved woodland compared to Scotland 
and Wales, and Northern Ireland is isolated geographically from the rest of the UK 
meaning that roundwood offtakers are more likely to be in the Republic of Ireland. 
Overarching these separate strategies is the UK Forestry Standard76, which defines 
standards and requirements in sections covering biodiversity, climate change, historic 
environment, landscape, people, and soil and water. The UK Forestry Standard was first 
published in 1998, and is now on its fourth revision (published in 2017). In each revision 
adjustments are made based on both legislation and regulation both nationally and 
internationally, but also incorporating relevant updates based on advances in the scientific 
understanding of forestry.  
The Forestry Standard has pushed both afforestation and restocking to focus on 
establishment of mixed native woodlands, increasing species and structural diversity to 
realise the wider benefits (Section 4.3.4).  
                                                 
 
151 Mason, 2007, Changes in the management of British forests between 1945 and 2000 and possible 
future trends, Ibis 149(Suppl. 2) 
152 Forestry Commission, 2017, Corporate Plan Performance Indicators: Headline Performance Update 
31 March 2017 
153 ClimateXChange, 2018, Suitability and productivity (forestry), available at: 
https://www.climatexchange.org.uk/research/indicators-and-trends/natural-environment/suitability-and-
productivity-forestry/ 
154Forestry Commission Scotland, 2006, The Scottish Forestry Strategy 
155 Natural Resources Wales, 2009, Woodlands for Wales 
156 Forest Service Norther Ireland, 2006, Northern Ireland Forestry: A strategy for sustainability and 
growth 
157 Forestry Commission England, 2007, England Forestry Strategy: a new focus for England’s 
woodlands 
 
SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT 
 
 
Final Report – 09 October 2018 
Drax Power Ltd 
53 
 
PÖYRY MANAGEMENT CONSULTING 
All forestry in the UK must comply with the standard as assessed by the Forestry 
Commission in England and Scotland, as well as Natural Resources Wales and the 
Northern Ireland Forest Service in the other parts of the UK. Adherence is required to 
obtain any grants or aid support in addition to being required for felling licences. 
In addition to this compulsory standard there is voluntary certification which is widely 
adopted in the UK. Certification is possible through the UK Woodland Assurance Scheme 
(UKWAS), which is approved by both FSC and PEFC certification standards158. This 
builds on the UK Woodland Standard to provide stronger assurances and verification of 
the sustainability of management in any given forest in the UK. At present 44% of the 
UK’s forests are certified, including all of the state owned forests145. 
4.3.4 
Wider benefits of SFM 
A wide study of biodiversity in the UK’s plantations concluded that plantation (including 
those established before sustainable forest management practice were common) has had 
some benefit to biodiversity, and this can be further enhanced by attention to factors 
impacting biodiversity as is practice in sustainable forest management159 (in line with the 
UK Forestry Standard). 
SFM also has social benefits in the UK: by actively managing and creating more forests 
there are greater recreational and landscape amenities, and sustainable forest 
management has also been shown to protect cultural history through preserving historic 
forest skills and protecting archaeological artefacts160 that would be lost or become 
degraded if forest management was absent. 
The forest industry in the UK (and associated sustainable forest management) supports a 
large number of jobs across forestry, wood industries, and pulp and paper, as shown in 
Table 7. These jobs also contribute a value of 2,116 million GBP to the UK economy 
(Table 7).The absence of forest management would mean no harvesting to support any of 
these jobs or contribution to the economy. This would lead to especially acute issues in 
rural areas where the majority of these jobs are located. 
Table 7: UK forest industry jobs and value added (2015) 
 
Forestry 
Sawmilling 
Panels 
Pulp & 
Paper 
Total 
Jobs 
17,000 
8,000 
5,000 
13,000 
43,000 
Gross value add 
(Million GBP) 
626 
429 
323 
738 
2,116 
Source: Forestry Commission142 
 
                                                 
 
158 UKWAS, 2018, United Kingdom Woodland Assurance Standard, Version 4.0 
159 Humphrey et al., 2003, Biodiversity in Britain’s Planted Forest: Results from the Forestry 
Commission’s Biodiversity Assessment Project, Forestry Commission: Edinburgh 
160 Willis et al., 2003, The Social and environmental benefits of forests in Great Britain, Report to 
Forestry Commission Edinburgh 
 
SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT 
 
 
Final Report – 09 October 2018 
Drax Power Ltd 
54 
 
PÖYRY MANAGEMENT CONSULTING 
It is interesting to note that in the UK wider benefits of SFM have been attempted to be 
quantified through the system of natural capital accounting161. The public forest estate in 
England is reported to have almost 98.8% of its value derived from intangible benefits 
delivered to society in comparison to the income streams from timber marketing and 
recreational sales162. 
4.4 
Uruguay  
Uruguay has been selected as this case study demonstrates how the rapid development 
of the forest industry has drastically increased the forest area and forest carbon stock 
whilst simultaneously preventing deforestation. The development of the forest industry in 
Uruguay has happened more recently than in other regions and  primarily under basic 
economic principles; international investors took advantage of relatively cost effective 
labour and good growing conditions to establish integrated forest businesses which 
produce wood products for the global export market. 
4.4.1 
Forest Industry Overview 
Development of a plantation resource in Uruguay began during 1975 when the 
government offered incentives including tax waivers on properties and subsidies for forest 
operations. Later the National Forest Plan and the second forestry promotion law in 1987 
further subsidized new forest plantation establishment163, and gave exemption of income 
tax and import and export tax duties for timber. This had a large impact on the 
development of plantations in Uruguay, which grew from 25,000 ha in 1987164 to over 1 
million ha in 2015165.  
Part of this expansion was done by major foreign investors who started establishing 
eucalyptus plantations in Uruguay in 1990. Forestal Oriental (formed partly by Shell), 
EUFORES (ENCE) and other Uruguayan companies (e.g. COFUSA and Forestal Caja 
Bancaria) also started activities in the forestry sector at this time. Other companies such 
as Weyerhaeuser, Fymnsa and Urupanel started operations with the aim of producing 
sawnwood and wood-based panels for the export market. In 2003 the first investment fund 
acquired land suitable for plantation establishment (GMO Renewable Resources) and this 
ownership type has also grown. 
The second forestry promotion law benefits lasted until 2005, the loss of the subsidies as 
well as less favourable reforms to tax in 2007 combined with the impact of the global 
financial crisis impacting the export market for wood products, reduced rates of 
afforestation.  Currently, tax benefits are limited to plantations under long-rotation 
management regimes (longer than 15 years), which must be made on land considered of 
poor agricultural or environmental value, and be run under a management plan submitted 
to the Ministry of Agriculture. The level of planting has subsequently lessened but remains 
around 20,000 ha for Eucalyptus over 2013-2017, whilst the area of pine has lessened 
slightly (according to government estimates) as a result of market conditions. 
                                                 
 
161 Office For National Statistics, 2017. Principles of Natural Capital Accounting 
162 Forestry Commission England, 2017,  Natural Capital Account 2016-2017 
163 Uruguayan Government, 1987, Act No. 15.939 on Forestry 
164 PEFC Uruguay, 2009, Uruguayan Forest Certification Scheme 
165 Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, 2015, Evaluación de los recursos forestales 
mindiales 2015: Informe Nacional Uruguay 
 
SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT 
 
 
Final Report – 09 October 2018 
Drax Power Ltd 
55 
 
PÖYRY MANAGEMENT CONSULTING 
The total forest area in Uruguay is now estimated to be 1.8 million ha, of which 
approximately 1.0 million ha is planted forest and which is available for the forest industry. 
Natural forest which consists of some 800,000 ha is protected from harvesting under 
Uruguayan law without special permits. Of the planted area around 74% is eucalyptus 
species and 26% is pine species.  
The total annual wood consumption in Uruguay is around 10.1 million m³/year. The pulp 
industry is the largest consumer of wood in Uruguay (54%) followed by the bioenergy 
industry (19%), sawnwood (11%), woodchip (8%) and wood based panels (6%). The pulp 
and woodchip industries use only eucalyptus logs, whilst the sawnwood and wood based 
panel industries use mostly pine logs.   
All of the planted forest area in Uruguay is under private ownership. Just over half (54%) 
of the plantation forest area is owned by international and vertically integrated companies, 
and the operators of Uruguay’s two pulpmills; UPM and Montes del Plata are also the 
largest and second largest owners in terms of plantation area respectively. Around a third 
(36%) of the planted area is owned by non-integrated forest companies (mostly TIMOs 
and REITs) and the remainder (10%) by other small private producers. 
4.4.2 
Forestry development 
4.4.2.1 Total forest area 
Since 1990 the total forest area in Uruguay has increased by around 131% by 2015 
(Figure 19). This is mostly due to the increase in planted forest area whilst the area of 
natural forest types has remained relatively stable.  Due to the regulatory environment in 
Uruguay only the planted forest should be assumed as under management and this share 
increased to 58% of the total by 2015.  
Figure 19: Total forest area development in Uruguay 
 
NB: The Increase in primary forest volume is a result of a revised estimate of primary forest rather than more primary forest 
being established. Source: FAO165, Pöyry  
0
200
400
600
800
1,000
1,200
1,400
1,600
1,800
Primary forest
Other naturally regenerated forest
Pine plantation
Eucalyptus plantation
 
SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT 
 
 
Final Report – 09 October 2018 
Drax Power Ltd 
56 
 
PÖYRY MANAGEMENT CONSULTING 
4.4.2.2 Increment 
Forest stand increments in Uruguay typically range from 7 to 34 m³/ha/year for eucalyptus 
and 9 to 30 m³/ha/year for pine (Figure 20). Historically yields were lower than can be 
achieved presently, as plantations were predominantly planted with lower yielding  E. 
globulus trees than the genetically improved and higher yielding E. grandis that are being 
used to restock planations. Following its introduction, E. grandis has been increasingly 
planted in Uruguay and now accounts for around 25% of the total planted area, and as 
such the average yield from forest plantations in Uruguay has increased. However, 
E.dunni is also being expanded by some owners due to its greater frost tolerance. This 
should lead to improved carbon sequestration due to the faster growing trees. 
Figure 20: Maximum MAI ranges for common species grown in Uruguay 
 
4.4.2.3 Growth to removal ratio 
The growth to removal ratio indicates that the increased harvesting levels are not 
depleting the volume that has been grown to date. The figure below shows that harvesting 
in 2015 was 59% of the net growth of hardwoods and 41% of the net growth of softwoods.  
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
E. globulus
E. viminalis
E. dunni
E. grandis
Pinus
Maximum MAI m³/ha/year 
Min/Max
Average
 
SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT 
 
 
Final Report – 09 October 2018 
Drax Power Ltd 
57 
 
PÖYRY MANAGEMENT CONSULTING 
Figure 21: Growth to removal ratio for Uruguayan plantations 
 
Source: Pöyry calculated 
4.4.2.4 Forest growing stock / above ground carbon 
Due to the increased rates of planting, improved yields, and actual harvesting levels (as 
shown in the previous section), the forest growing stock has increased in plantation 
forests by 78% between 2005 and 2015 (Figure 22). At the same time, natural forests in 
Uruguay have also been able to increase their growing stock by approximately 5%165.  
Figure 22: Uruguay plantation standing volume 
 
Source: FAO165  
 -
 2
 4
 6
 8
 10
 12
 14
 16
 18
 20
Hardwood
Softwood
Million m³/yr 
Increment
Harvest
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
2005
2010
2015
Million m3 
 
SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT 
 
 
Final Report – 09 October 2018 
Drax Power Ltd 
58 
 
PÖYRY MANAGEMENT CONSULTING 
4.4.3 
Forest management practices 
In Uruguay forest management has been steered by government policy which opened the 
country to international investors whilst protecting the area of remaining natural forest. 
The Forestry Law No. 15.939 designed to protect the remaining natural forest areas by 
prohibiting their use and destruction, and to develop a forest industry based on a 
plantation grown fibre through incentivising the establishment of forest plantations and 
wood consuming industries.  
The development of the forest industry has led to the introduction of two forest 
management regimes applied to plantation forests. These include the pulpwood regime 
and the sawlog regime, which are tailored to grow products specifically for the 
pulp/woodchip/bioenergy industries and sawnwood/wood based panel industries 
respectively. Around two thirds (67%) of the planted forest is managed under the 
pulpwood regime, of which all is Eucalyptus species. In this regime the stands are planted 
at densities of 1,333 trees per hectare, and these are usually harvested following 12-14 
years of growth. The remaining 31% is managed under the sawlog regime and this 
consists of all the pine area and a minority of the eucalyptus, trees are planted at a higher 
density and harvested through several thinning operations before clearfelling the 
remaining crop around age 20-22 years. These regimes are designed to hold the 
maximum amount of fibre (and subsequently forest carbon stock) per unit of land area and 
as such they have contributed significantly to the increase in forest carbon stock within 
Uruguay. It should be noted that they are also designed to produce roundwood products 
that the industry can use, and so the economic sustainability of the plantations is 
dependent on market conditions prevailing ceterus paribus. 
Around two thirds (68%) of the planted forest was managed under FSC certification in 
2015. Since the forest industry in Uruguay is mostly export based its international 
customer base in North America and the Europe are increasingly under pressure to 
procure wood products from sustainably managed forests. 
4.4.4 
Wider benefits of SFM 
The forest industry in Uruguay provided around 15,000 jobs directly in 2016, of which just 
over half (55%) were involved on forestry and logging and just under half (45%) in wood 
processing. Industry developments including the construction of mills have also been 
reported as having a significant impact on the labour market, albeit temporary. There has 
also been an increase in the number of skilled jobs required for the processing of pulp, 
which has triggered the start-up of several courses in forestry and wood science at 
Uruguayan Universities. 
Due to the supply and demand imbalance of wood fibre in Uruguay, there is also potential 
to increase construction with wood domestically which would reduce emissions compared 
with building with concrete, and help to develop the wider forest industry in Uruguay. 
Ultimately, the absence of sustainable forest management in Uruguay would result in 
alternative land use being applied, and the most common land use is pasture. This is 
often a carbon source (rather than the sink that forests provide) and would not be a 
positive direction for sustainable land use. 
 
 
SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT 
 
 
Final Report – 09 October 2018 
Drax Power Ltd 
59 
 
PÖYRY MANAGEMENT CONSULTING 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 [This page is intentionally blank] 
 
 
Pöyry is a global consulting and engineering firm. 
 
Pöyry is an international consulting and engineering company. We 
serve clients across power generation, transmission & distribution, 
forest industry, biorefining & chemicals,mining & metals, 
infrastructure and water & environment. Together, we deliver smart 
solutions and work with the latest digital innovations. Pöyry's net 
sales in 2017 were EUR 522 million. The company's shares are 
quoted on Nasdaq Helsinki. Approximately 5500 experts. 40  
countries. 115 offices. 
In 2018 Pöyry is proud to be celebrating its 60th Anniversary, 
together with employees, clients and partners. 
Pöyry Management Consulting provides leading-edge consulting and 
advisory services covering the whole value chain in energy, forest 
and other process industries. 
 
 
 
 
 
Pöyry Management Consulting 
Portland House, Bressenden Place 
Tel: +44 (0)20 7932 8200 
London 
Fax: +44 (0)20 7932 8270 
SW1E 5BH 
www.poyry.co.uk 
UK 
 
 
www.poyry.com 
 
