 
 
 
 
 
Rt Hon Sajid Javid MP 
Chancellor of the Exchequer 
HM Treasury  
1 Horse Guards Road  
London SW1A 2HQ  
 
29 October 2019 
 
Dear Chancellor, 
 
Need for carbon pricing clarity at the first ‘Net Zero Budget’ 
We are writing to you to urge you to maintain the UK’s robust approach on carbon 
pricing. The prolonged uncertainty regarding the UK’s carbon pricing future as it exits 
the EU reiterates the need for the upcoming Budget – at whatever final date is 
chosen – to provide some much-needed certainty in a potentially turbulent period for 
businesses across the UK.  
With its approach to carbon pricing, the Powering Past Coal Alliance and its Net Zero 
commitment, the UK has been a leader in global efforts to meet the ambition of the 
Paris Agreement by phasing out coal, as well as incentivising low carbon energy 
development and helping drive cost reductions. This leadership should continue at 
the first ‘Net Zero Budget'. 
As outlined by the Committee on Climate Change in its recent advice to the UK 
Government on its carbon pricing future1, reaching net zero “will require a strong and 
rising carbon price, in order to induce changes to both short-term behaviour and 
longer-term investment decisions”. Importantly, in the run up to COP26 in Glasgow in 
November 2020, it is important that the UK continues its global leadership and is not 
perceived to waver on its commitment to tackling climate change.  
 
Given the uncertainty over the UK’s exit from the EU there is little clarity on what the 
carbon pricing mechanism will be in the near term and this is already impacting on 
the forward pricing of carbon in electricity markets. Therefore, providing certainty 
and stability is crucial when the Government sets the Carbon Price Support 
(CPS) rate for April 2021 and beyond. Any reduction in CPS rates made in 
isolation of wider clarity on the UK’s carbon pricing arrangements post EU exit risks 
sending a negative signal to low carbon investors and undermining the continuing 
need for a strong and rising carbon price. 
                                                
1 UK Committee on Climate Change (2019) – Future of UK Carbon pricing: Letter  
 
In addition to the considerations on the CPS, the Carbon Emissions Tax (CET) – that 
will replace the EU ETS in the event that the UK leaves the EU without a deal – will 
need to be set out for 2020 as soon as possible. To minimise the potential 
divergence between the CET and the EU ETS over 2020 it is vital that the CET is 
set a level for 2020 that is comparable with recent EU ETS pricing.  
We look forward to measures to help the UK meet its leading ambitions at the first 
‘Net Zero Budget’, including certainty and stability on the CPS. Further clarity on the 
UK’s carbon pricing future following a successful linking agreement between a UK 
ETS and the EU ETS to be in place for 2021 should be provided as soon as is 
practicable.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CC 
Simon Clarke MP, Exchequer Secretary to the Treasury 
Rt Hon Andrea Leadsom MP, Secretary of State for Business, Energy and Industrial 
Strategy  
Rt Hon Kwasi Kwarteng MP, Minister of State for Business, Energy and Industrial 
Strategy  
Lord Ian Duncan, Parliamentary Under Secretary of State for Business, Energy and 
Industrial Strategy 
Rt Hon Claire Perry O’Neill MP, UNFCCC COP26 President 
