16 February 2017 
 
DRAX GROUP PLC (Symbol: DRX) 
PRELIMINARY RESULTS FOR THE TWELVE MONTHS ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 
Good operational performance, 65% of electricity from renewable biomass and progress with strategic initiatives 
 
Twelve months ended 31 December 
2016 
2015 
Key financial performance measures 
 
 
EBITDA (£ million)(1)  
140 
169 
Underlying earnings (£ million)(2) 
21 
46 
Underlying earnings per share (pence)(2)  
5.0 
11.3 
Total dividends (pence per share)(3)  
2.5 
5.7 
Net debt (£ million)(4) 
93 
187 
 
 
 
Statutory accounting measures 
 
 
Profit before tax (£ million) 
197 
59 
Reported basic earnings per share (pence) 
48 
14 
 
Financial and Operational Highlights 
 
2016 EBITDA in line with guidance 
- Year on year reduction driven by challenging commodity markets and loss of LECs(5)  
- Mitigated by growth in system support, improving retail and pellet supply profitability 
 
Three converted biomass units, CfD approved in December 
- 65% of generation from biomass in 2016 (2015: 43%) 
- Investment completed on budget 
 
Statutory profit before tax includes unrealised gains related to foreign currency hedging 
 
Strong cash flows and balance sheet 
 
Strategic Highlights and Outlook 
 
Acquisition of Opus Energy and open cycle gas turbine projects 
 
Focus on delivery of strategy 
- Higher quality diversified earnings and targeted long-term growth opportunities 
- Significant earnings growth 
 
Maintain operational excellence across base business 
 
Refinancing of existing debt facilities 
 
2017 EBITDA expectations in line with consensus 
 
Dorothy Thompson, Chief Executive of Drax Group plc, said:  
“We are playing a vital role in helping change the way energy is generated, supplied and used as the UK moves to a low 
carbon future. 
 
“With the right conditions, we can do even more, converting further units to run on compressed wood pellets. This is the 
fastest and most reliable way to support the UK’s decarbonisation targets, whilst minimising the cost to households and 
businesses. 
 
“In a challenging commodity environment Drax has delivered a good operational performance with 65% renewable power 
generation. 
 
“The acquisition of Opus Energy and rapid response open cycle gas turbine projects are an important step in delivering 
our strategy, diversifying our earnings base and contributing to stronger, long-term financial performance across the 
markets in which we operate.” 
 
NOTES FOR ANALYSTS AND EDITORS 
2016 Group Financial Review 
 
EBITDA for 2016 down 17% at £140 million 
- Year on year reduction driven by challenging commodity markets and loss of LECs(5)  
- Mitigated by growth in system support, improving retail and pellet supply profitability 
 
Underlying earnings per share decreased 54% to 5.0 pence 
 
Reported basic earnings per share of 48 pence includes unrealised gains on derivative contracts of £177million (and 
the associated tax), principally related to the foreign currency hedging programme to support biomass procurement 
activities 
 
Tax on underlying profits reflects impact on deferred tax of corporation tax rate reductions and excludes the one off 
tax credit arising on recognition of the tax value of US start-up costs 
 
Capital investment: biomass transformation in line with original guidance of £650 - £700 million (three unit 
conversions, US supply chain investments and IED(6) compliance)  
- 2016 capital investment of £96 million, in line with guidance 
 
Full year dividend of 2.5 pence per share, or £10 million (2015: 5.7 pence per share, or £23 million), in line with 
policy to distribute 50% of underlying earnings 
 
Net debt of £93 million (31 Dec 2015: £187 million), including cash on hand of £228 million  
 
2016 Business Review  
Generation 
 
Biomass – increase in generation electricity output (net sales) 12.7TWh (2015: 11.5TWh) 
 
Coal – strong operational performance with increased system support role 
- Flexible operation in prompt and balancing markets 
- Increase in Ancillary Services revenue to £47 million (2015: £14 million) 
- Targeted maintenance strategy – deferred major planned outage to 2018 
 
Consultation on closure of unabated coal generation 
- Expect end of coal generation by 2025 
- Accelerated depreciation of coal-specific assets from 2017 
Retail 
 
Haven Power – established challenger in I&C(7) market 
- Good operational performance 
 
Opus Energy – profitable challenger brand in SME(8) market 
- Significant addition to 2017 earnings 
Biomass Supply 
 
Port and pellet plants – good operations, providing supply chain flexibility 
 
Notes:  
(1) EBITDA is defined as profit before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and unrealised gains and losses on derivative contracts. 
(2) 2016 underlying earnings exclude unrealised gains on derivative contracts of £177 million and the associated tax, plus a deferred tax credit of 
£31 million in relation to start-up losses in the US (2015: unrealised gains of £124 million and asset obsolescence charges of £109 million). 
(3) Based on 50% of underlying earnings. 
(4) Cash and cash equivalents, less borrowings. 
(5) LEC is Levy Exemption Certificate. 
(6) IED is Industrial Emissions Directive.  
(7) I&C is Industrial & Commercial. 
(8) SME is Small Medium Enterprise. 
Forward Looking Statements 
This announcement may contain certain statements, statistics and projections that are or may be forward-looking. The 
accuracy and completeness of all such statements, including, without limitation, statements regarding the future financial 
position, strategy, projected costs, plans and objectives for the management of future operations of Drax Group plc 
(“Drax”) and its subsidiaries (the “Group”) are not warranted or guaranteed. By their nature, forward-looking statements 
involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that may occur in the future. 
Although Drax believes that the expectations reflected in such statements are reasonable, no assurance can be given that 
such expectations will prove to be correct. There are a number of factors, many of which are beyond the control of the 
Group, which could cause actual results and developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such 
forward-looking statements. These factors include, but are not limited to, factors such as: future revenues being lower than 
expected; increasing competitive pressures in the industry; and/or general economic conditions or conditions affecting the 
relevant industry, both domestically and internationally, being less favourable than expected. We do not intend to publicly 
update or revise these projections or other forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date 
hereof, and we do not assume any responsibility for doing so. 
 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
 
Results presentation meeting and webcast arrangements 
 
Management will host a presentation for analysts and investors at 9:00am today (UK Time), at JP Morgan, 60 Victoria 
Embankment, London, EC4Y 0JP. 
 
Would anyone wishing to attend please confirm by either e-mailing epayne@brunswickgroup.com  or calling Emma 
Payne at Brunswick Group on +44 (0) 20 7396 5323. 
 
The meeting can also be accessed remotely via a live webcast, as detailed below. After the meeting, the webcast will be 
made available and access details are set out below. 
 
A copy of the presentation will be made available from 7:00am (UK time) today for download at: 
www.drax.com>>investors>>results_and_reports>> investor_relations_presentations or use the link 
http://www.drax.com/investors/results-and-reports/#investor-relations-presentations 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For further information please contact Emma Payne at Brunswick Group on +44 (0) 207396 5323. 
Website:  
www.drax.com 
 
 
 
 
Event Title: 
Drax Group plc: Preliminary Results 
Event Date: 
Thursday 16 February 2017 
 
 
Event Time 
9:00am (UK time) 
 
 
Webcast Live Event Link 
http://cache.merchantcantos.com/webcast/webcaster/4000/7464/74
67/71349/Lobby/default.htm 
 
 
Start Date: 
Thursday 16 February 2017 
Delete Date: 
Monday 12 February 2018 
Archive Link: 
http://cache.merchantcantos.com/webcast/webcaster/4000/7464/74
67/71349/Lobby/default.htm 
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT 
2016 was a pivotal year for Drax, marking the completion of the biomass transformation project which commenced in 2012, and the 
announcement of a new strategy to deliver long-term sustainable value. 
Against a background of low wholesale electricity prices, and a volatile and demanding environment for renewable energy providers, 
the Group has again delivered strong operational performance. 
CREATING LONG-TERM VALUE FROM A DIVERSIFIED BASE 
In 2016 a key focus for the Board was the development of a new strategy for the Group, in order to ensure we are well placed to create 
long-term value across all three segments of the business: smart upstream sustainable pellet manufacturing, smart power generation 
and smart retail. 
Following a comprehensive review, initiated in 2015, the Group’s new strategy has been defined and is based on creating a more 
diversified earnings base that will produce higher-quality returns in the long term. Central to this strategy, Drax aims to play an 
increasing role in delivering a robust low-carbon energy system for the UK. 
We announced our new strategy to the market in December. Evidence of delivering on the new strategy can already be seen in the 
acquisition of Opus Energy and four projects to construct fast-response Open Cycle Gas Turbine generation plants. 
RESULTS AND DIVIDEND 
Our EBITDA for 2016 at £140 million was in line with our guidance, although below 2015 (£169 million). This result principally 
reflects very challenging commodity markets and the removal of Climate Change Levy exemptions. However, we were able to partly 
offset the impact of these factors with a focus on flexible system support, the prompt and balancing markets, ancillary services and 
improving retail margins, all of which are important parts of our strategy to develop broader, non-commodity exposed earnings. 
In accordance with our dividend policy, the Board proposes to pay a final dividend in respect of 2016 of 0.4 pence per share, equal to 
£1.8 million. This would give total dividends for the year of £10 million (2015: £23 million). 
Given the evolution of our business, the Board believes that it is appropriate to review our dividend policy. Discussions with our 
shareholders will take place in the first half of 2017. 
POLITICAL AND REGULATORY 
The government’s decision to apply the Climate Change Levy to renewables continued to have a significant effect on our results, 
reducing EBITDA by an estimated £34 million in 2016. On a much more positive note, following an exhaustive and rigorous process, 
the European Commission approved our Contract for Difference (CfD). 
2016 was a year of significant change for the UK Government, not least with the Brexit vote and its implications. Our strategy of 
long-term hedging against currency fluctuations ensured we were protected against a negative impact on the cost of our predominantly 
US dollar and Euro denominated biomass supply. 
A new Prime Minister, a newly created department in BEIS (Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy), and changes to 
their respective teams mean new opportunities to make the case for further biomass upgrades at Drax. Our aim for the power station is 
to deliver 100% sustainable, renewable and reliable biomass generation. 
Continuing to demonstrate the affordability of biomass is also critical, and an independent report1 commissioned by Drax in early 
2016 showed that biomass is the lowest cost, scale, renewable generation available once total system costs have been accounted for.  
CRITICAL ROLE TO PLAY IN THE ELECTRICITY MARKET 
Drax has a major role to play, not just producing electricity when it is needed, but also in securing the stability of the electricity grid. 
We are a generator that combines flexibility, reliability and sustainability. Our unique profile enables us to help National Grid provide 
power whenever it is needed. We renewed our contract with National Grid to provide support services, and there are clearly greater 
opportunities for Drax to support the UK energy system in the future. 
Drax’s four planned rapid-response Open Cycle Gas Turbine plants have the potential to provide the flexible and reliable electricity 
that the UK’s homes and businesses will need in the years to come.  
Changes in the retail energy market mean there are now greater opportunities for challenger brands to succeed. The acquisition of 
Opus Energy, with its strong track record of supplying power to small to medium-size businesses, will complement our existing 
                                                 
1 
(http://www.nera.com/publications/archive/2016/NERA_Imperial_Feb_2016_Renewable_Subsidies_and_Whole_System_Costs_FINA
L_160215.html) 
offering from Haven Power, which is well established in the large commercial and industrial sector. 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
Drax remains committed to the highest standards of corporate governance. The Board and its committees play an active role in 
guiding the Company and leading its strategy, which is why we are determined to ensure we have the right skillset to steer the Group 
forward. 
We are strong advocates of diversity – in terms of thinking, background and gender. 
In the course of 2016, Melanie Gee left the Board. I would like to thank her for her years of commitment and service as a non-
executive director. We are actively seeking new non-executive directors whose skills will help us determine and deliver our strategy 
for long-term value. In this context, retail and sustainability are our primary focus. 
OUR PEOPLE 
Finally, I must thank all the employees and contractors who have worked so hard to help Drax succeed in the last 12 months. As I 
said, it has continued to be an extremely busy period for everyone across all of our business, yet our team has once again pulled 
together to help us meet all of those challenges. We are privileged to have colleagues from such a diverse range of backgrounds and 
skills. 
What we all share is the determination to do things in a sustainable way, and to continue to help the UK reduce its carbon emissions 
while continuing to provide the power our country requires. 
It only remains for me to say that your Board remains totally committed to the complementary aims of delivering sustainable long-
term value for the Drax business, and of helping our country build a low-carbon future through smart energy solutions. 
Philip Cox CBE 
Chairman 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW 
2016 began with some of the most challenging power and commodity markets I have seen in my career and in a similar way to 2015 
this created a headwind to profitability. 
Operationally, performance across the group has been good. 
The strong operational performance across our business helped us to respond to the financial challenge posed by the difficult 
commodity markets and the removal of Climate Change Levy exemptions. This enabled us to deliver EBITDA for 2016 at £140 
million, in line with our guidance, but still below 2015 (£169 million). There is more detail on our financial performance in the Group 
Financial Review. 
In response to the challenging commodity market conditions we evolved the operation of our coal units to provide increasingly 
important flexible system support services to the power grid, whilst at the same time our biomass units delivered a record level of 
renewable electricity. 
In the US our pellet plants operated well. During the year we used the flexibility of self-supply to manage production to allow the 
Group to benefit from attractively priced biomass cargoes in the short-term spot market. 
In Retail, Haven Power has delivered a good performance with volumes at scale and improved Gross Margin. 
2016 was also a year of completion and delivery for Drax Group. 
In December the European Commission granted state aid approval for the CfD contract to support the upgrade of our third generating 
unit at Drax power station to produce electricity from sustainable compressed wood pellets. That same month we completed the 
upgrade works and started producing 100% renewable power from the unit. This marked the final stage of our biomass transformation 
project which we have been implementing since 2012. 
The transformation extends right across our supply chain. From the working forests of the southern US to ports in the UK, it extends 
right through to the millions of homes and businesses across the UK that use the renewable power we produce. 
In 2016 we produced 16% of the UK’s renewable electricity from sustainable wood pellets. In total we produce enough electricity to 
power Sheffield, Leeds, Liverpool and Manchester together. We stand ready to do more. 
Through our retail business we supplied 7.5% of electricity required by UK businesses, whilst our pellet supply business produced 
607,000 tonnes of compressed wood pellets. 
According to a study published by Oxford Economics in 2016 (Draximpact.co.uk), Drax’s total economic impact – including our 
supply chain and the wages our staff and suppliers’ staff spend in the wider consumer economy was £1.2 billion, supporting 14,150 
jobs across the UK. 
MARKET OVERVIEW 
The markets in which we operated were dominated by three major trends in 2016: 
1. A tipping point for UK electricity 
Firstly, the electricity market in Britain has now passed a tipping point. Until recently, intermittent generators such as wind and solar 
power have played a relatively small role in the electricity system. They are now playing an ever more significant role and the 
electricity system needs to adjust accordingly. 
Britain now has 26GW of wind and solar installed – a six-fold increase over the last six years, and biomass has almost doubled its 
output since 2014 to over 14TWH. 
Coal, which in the past has played a critical role in system stability and security, contributed just 9.3% of Britain’s electricity during 
2016 – down from 42% in 2012. 
Of course, these changes represent good news from the point of view of creating a low-carbon energy future. But they also create an 
increased need for flexible and responsive solutions to ensure stability and security of electricity supply for the UK’s homes and 
businesses. This offers a major opportunity for Drax to provide more support services to the network in the areas of security of supply 
and system stability. 
2. The growth of challenger brands in the retail market 
Secondly, in the retail electricity marketplace, 2016 has seen a continued growth of challenger brands. It also saw the conclusion of a 
very important report from the Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) on the electricity market. This concluded that both the 
wholesale energy market and the business retail market are working well, with the exception of some concerns about micro-
businesses. The CMA did conclude that concerns remain about the domestic retail market. Their recommendations focused on how 
consumers could get better deals. 
3. Stress on wood pellet prices 
Meanwhile the wood pellet market has suffered from a significant excess of supply over demand. This follows three warm winters in 
Europe where there is a large market for wood pellets for heating. Consequently, demand in this market has been depressed and many 
pellet producers have struggled to find customers for their output. 
However, against this backdrop, there has been increased interest in biomass generation, particularly in the Netherlands and Japan 
with parallel policy developments expected to support more biomass generation. So, although the market has been severely stressed by 
excess supply, it is expected that demand for biomass will increase in future years. 
POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC BACKGROUND 
In 2016 we have been working against a background of significant political change in the UK. In general, the Brexit vote did not 
affect us because our electricity is used in UK homes and businesses. We purchase large quantities of fuel in foreign currency. 
However, we are well hedged against currency fluctuations for the next five years including the devaluation of Sterling in 2016. 
2016 saw a reduction in our dependency on commodity-related earnings. A growing proportion of our earnings are now based on 
system support, pellet supply and retail sales, rather than pure commodity spread earnings from generating electricity. This will be 
even more evident in 2017, as a third of our biomass generation is supported under a CfD, which is not subject to movements in 
commodity prices.  
The UK Government continues to be clear that affordability of energy is a priority. 
We commissioned research from Imperial College London and economic consultancy NERA to look at the affordability of biomass by 
factoring in whole system costs – essentially the hidden costs of power generation required to flex up and down to meet demand 
created by intermittent renewables. When these costs are built in biomass is seen to be the best value large scale renewable 
technology. If these new levels of support were to be reflected in the government’s planned energy auctions, the mix of generation that 
could win contracts is shown to save consumers up to £2.2 billion over a 15 year period. 
SUSTAINABILITY 
We apply robust and thorough sustainability standards in all of our biomass sourcing. Since 2008 we have used external experts to 
independently verify our compliance with these stringent standards. In 2015 the Sustainable Biomass Partnership introduced the first 
sustainability certification system, including full life cycle analysis, for woody biomass. We are very pleased that in 2016, the 
Sustainable Biomass Partnership fully certified both our compressed wood pellet manufacturing plants. 
Because sustainability is so central to our business, we are also delighted to report that carbon emissions from the generation of 
electricity at Drax power station fell by 53%* in 2016, partially driven by replacement of coal with Biomass. 
*Based on CO2 emissions of 13.3 million in 2015 falling to 6.2 million in 2016. 
HEALTH AND SAFETY 
The health and safety of all our employees and contractors is of paramount importance to Drax. The Group delivered a world-leading 
performance in 2016. Overall, this has been our best year since 2012. It is especially pleasing given that it was delivered against a 
backdrop of an intense schedule of planned maintenance on our generating units during the year which resulted in man hours worked 
being nearly 5 million across the Group. 
Safety remains at the centre of our operational philosophy and we are continuing to work to improve our performance across the 
Group. 
BUSINESS PERFORMANCE 
Drax Biomass 
2016 was a year characterised by flexible operations at Drax Biomass, curtailing production for a time to enable the Group to capture 
value in the distressed wood pellet spot market. Both our pellet plants are now working at full capacity and delivering pellets of good 
quality. 
In 2016 we continued to work on optimising production from both pellet plants and identified the opportunity for making low cost, 
incremental capital investment which will increase the capacity of each of the facilities from 450,000 tonnes to 525,000 tonnes. We 
will make this investment in 2017 and deliver the increased capacity by the end of the year. 
Drax Power 
In 2016, 65% of our electricity was generated from sustainable compressed wood pellets. 
Of the much smaller proportion of our electricity generated by coal, the vast majority was used to fill the gaps when additional 
capacity or flexibility was needed by the grid. All of our generating units at Drax are flexible, dispatchable, and responsive, making 
them ideal to adapt to the changing needs of the market, and to fill the gaps created by the increasing amount of intermittent renewable 
generation. 
The future of our coal units remains uncertain. The government published a consultation in November 2016 requesting views on 
whether conditions should be put in place requiring all coal power stations to close by 2025. 
In 2016, Drax participated once again in the capacity market. While we are prohibited from doing this with our biomass units we did 
bid in two of our three coal units. Both units succeeded in securing a contract worth £13.6 million per unit per year for 2020/21. We 
elected not to bid for our third coal unit as with the right conditions we remain committed to upgrading further coal units to biomass. 
Had we bid this unit in the capacity market this would not have been possible in a timely manner. 
Haven Power 
In 2015, Haven achieved the scale of business which we were targeting for market access for renewable products and power. 
The focus for 2016 has been to design a strategy that would deliver attractive levels of profitability at that scale. This strategy is 
focused on rebalancing our portfolio of sales to increase the number of small- and medium-sized enterprise (SME) customers in our 
portfolio compared to those from large industrial and commercial (I&C) businesses. 
With a new leadership team in place, Haven is now well placed to become a more nimble, agile business, embracing change and 
providing intelligent energy solutions for its customers. 
Billington Bioenergy 
For our wood pellet business Billington Bioenergy, 2016 was a year of uncertainty as the government reviewed its policy for 
renewable heat across the UK. The new Renewable Heat Incentive tariff rates were finally confirmed in December, at a level that 
should support steady growth in biomass heating for both domestic properties and larger commercial scale plants. 
Against this backdrop Billington continued to deliver a steady performance and has developed an attractive new strategy to grow the 
business at the scale and rate required to play a significant role in the Group. 
OUR NEW STRATEGY 
We announced the Group’s new strategy in December 2016. It reflects our determination to continue playing a vital role in the way 
energy is generated, supplied and used as the UK moves to a low carbon future. 
It is designed to help us deliver a stronger, more predictable, long-term financial performance for the Group along with greater 
diversification in the markets in which we operate. 
In December we also made it clear how we would start delivering the strategy. We announced our proposed acquisition of business-to-
business energy supplier Opus Energy along with that of a project to build four new rapid response Open Cycle Gas Turbines (OCGT) 
power stations. 
The Opus acquisition was a major transaction and was subject to shareholder approval. The acquisition was approved by shareholders 
on 8 February 2017 and completed on the 10 February 2017. 
Acquiring Opus is directly in line with our strategy of expanding our retail activities into the SME marketplace where it is already 
very successful as a challenger brand. 
Opus has a well-established business as a dual fuel supplier, enabling us to supply gas as well as electricity to end users, which is 
critical to succeeding in the SME market. 
As the UK has now passed the tipping point where intermittent renewable generation plays a significant role in the electricity market, 
more rapid response power plants are required to keep the system stable. 
This is exactly what the four 299MW OCGT plants we are planning to develop and build are designed to do. Two could be generating 
electricity as early as 2020/21, and the others by 2023/24. Each is capable of reaching full capacity in just 10 minutes – one third of 
the time taken by a conventional gas plant, enabling them to ‘fill gaps’ whenever they might arise. 
This capability for rapid response generation can enable Drax to play a vital supporting role in the UK’s transition to secure low-
carbon electricity which is cost-effective and reliable. 
Our intention is only to go ahead with building these plants if we can secure an attractive capacity contract to provide the base 
revenues required. 
Similarly, we have also announced our intention to expand our sustainable compressed wood pellet production operations to support 
self-supply of at least 20–30%. This will require a capacity of at least 2 million tonnes per annum, double our current capacity. 
However, we will only move forward with this expansion if we identify attractive opportunities, including the potential acquisition of 
financially distressed pellet plants in the US. 
STRATEGY ENABLERS 
The first key enabler is our new people strategy. We are nothing without our people, and our greatest challenge will be further 
developing the excellence, talent and skill sets of the teams to ensure the successful delivery of our new strategy across all our 
businesses, including our recent acquisitions. That is the driving force behind our new people strategy. 
The second key enabler is our new IT strategy which will deliver a step-change in the way we work across the Group. It will not only 
transform our day to day ways of working, making us more efficient, but also improve our analytic capacity and create a digital 
capability that will put data at the heart of all our work. 
OUTLOOK 
Our focus in 2017 is on delivering the new strategy whilst continuing to deliver excellence across the base business. 
For Retail the year ahead will see Haven and Opus working closely together to deliver a compelling offer to the UK’s businesses. The 
two businesses complement each other perfectly, and two challenger brands will between them offer expertise and experience in 
supplying gas and electricity to both SME and I&C customers. 
There is a clear focus on embedding Opus into the Group. This is based on recognising the fact that the key to our future success 
together will be continuing to enable the Opus team to develop their skills and share their best practice across the Drax family. 
For Drax Biomass the focus will be on quality and stability for existing capacity, low cost expansion at existing plants and where 
available targeting low cost acquisition of operating pellet plants and identifying possible opportunities to supply compressed wood 
pellets to new markets. 
In our Generation business we will continue to deliver renewable electricity that is reliable and responsive through our biomass units. 
With the right conditions, we will convert three more units to run on compressed wood pellets. We see our coal units as playing an 
important role in system stability and capacity support. And we will work on the development of our four rapid-response OCGT plants 
with the firm intention of committing to further investment as soon as the UK capacity market clears at a price that provides a robust 
underpinning for such investment. 
Having taken the first steps in developing our new strategy, we will continue to look for opportunities to further enhance and build on 
it, ensuring we play an even greater role in delivering the secure and stable supply of low-carbon, reliable and affordable electricity 
the UK needs. 
Dorothy Thompson 
Chief Executive, Drax Group 
GROUP FINANCIAL REVIEW 
In a year of significant operational and market challenge, we have performed in line with our guidance. 
INTRODUCTION 
In 2016 we continued to face a challenging business environment, with sustained weakness in power prices and uncertainty following 
the UK’s decision to leave the European Union in June. 
However, whilst Group EBITDA of £140 million is some £29 million lower than in 2015, once the impact of a full year of lost Levy 
Exemption Certificate (LEC) income is taken into account (circa £30 million), the underlying financial performance of our business 
was creditable and in line with our guidance. This is a clear indicator of the continued strength in our operations, the resilience of the 
business and its agility in responding to the challenges faced. 
A major feature of our results during 2016 was the impact of Sterling depreciation following the Brexit vote. This led to significant 
gains in our balance sheet and income statement from unrealised gains on derivative contracts, largely relating to foreign exchange 
hedges. A gain relating to Sterling depreciation was also recognised within interest charges. In the medium term these changes will be 
managed through our extensive hedging programme, but in the longer term, without action on our part, Sterling’s sustained 
depreciation may lead to increases to our fuel costs. We are already working on solutions, should this occur. 
Furthermore, 2016 was the year we laid the groundwork for future growth, with the final clearance of our CfD in December marking 
the conclusion of our biomass transformation, the conditional acquisition of Opus Energy, subsequently completed in February 2017 
and investment in four Open Cycle Gas Turbine (OCGT) generation opportunities in the UK. 
We continue to maintain a robust balance sheet, with net debt of £93 million at 31 December reduced from £187 million in 2015 due 
to positive cash flows arising from our focus on efficient use of working capital. We will continue to focus on working capital and 
cash optimisation during 2017 and remain committed to maintaining a strong balance sheet. While the financing of the Opus 
acquisition will add leverage to our balance sheet, we expect our net debt to be back down to around 2xEBITDA by the end of 2017. 
The new strategy the Group has adopted in 2016 is designed to accelerate the development of more long-term sustainable earnings and 
less dependence on commodity prices. I am increasingly confident that this new strategy, when combined with the Group’s critical 
position in the UK energy system and strong asset base, provides an excellent platform upon which to increase shareholder value. 
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 
REVENUE 
Consolidated revenue for 2016 of £2,950 million was £115 million lower than in 2015. Electrical output from our Generation business 
of 19.6TWH was significantly lower than 26.7TWH in 2015, as lower market power prices resulted in our coal-fired units being out of 
merit for much of the summer. 
The impact of lower power prices, and the resultant lower load factors, was somewhat mitigated by a combination of the flexibility 
and reliability of our generation plant and increased ROC revenues, recognised when we sell ROCs to third parties, of £362 million. 
Our ability to quickly respond to changes in demand, combined with high availability, enabled us to capture real value in the short-
term prompt and system balancing markets. 
Revenue also includes £47 million in revenues arising from provision of Ancillary Services, an increase of £33 million from 2015. 
This included a twelve-month black start contract signed with National Grid in May 2016, and demonstrated the value of the flexible, 
reliable support services our generation plant can provide to the UK electricity network. 
As described in the Chief Executive’s Review the CfD contract for our third unit conversion was approved under State aid rules by the 
European Commission on 19 December 2016. We commenced generating power under this contract on 21 December and recognised 
revenue of £10 million in accordance with our accounting policy (set out in further detail in note 3 to the financial statements) in the 
period. 
The CfD approval arrived much later in the year than originally anticipated, leading to a financial result at the lower end of market 
guidance. 
Retail power revenues increased from £1,285 million in 2015 to £1,320 million in the year, underpinned by growth in sales to 
14.6TWH (2015: 13.8TWH) which reflects strong performance in a highly competitive market. 
GROSS MARGIN 
Consolidated gross margin for 2016 of £376 million is primarily derived from our generation activities and reflects a creditable 
performance when considering the loss of income from LECs. This compares to £409 million in 2015. 
The prior year included £34 million of income from LECs, earned prior to the cessation of the Climate Change Levy exemption in 
August 2015. Gross margin performance before LEC income was therefore consistent year-on-year, despite the challenging 
commodity price environment. 
ROCs continue to form an essential component of our financial performance. The expected benefit of ROCs earned is recognised as a 
reduction in our biomass fuel costs at the point of generation and subsequently recognised as revenue when the ROC is sold to a third 
party. We earned ROCs, reducing costs, with a total value of £536 million in 2016 (2015: £482 million). 
We delivered a strong operational performance across our Group, with our Retail and Biomass Supply businesses increasing their 
gross margin contributions by £4 million and £17 million respectively, driven by increased sales volumes.  
EBITDA 
Operating costs of £236 million were slightly lower than the previous year (2015: £240 million). 
Our US-based wood pellet manufacturing business saw an increase in costs reflecting its first full year of commercial operations – 
with 558kt of pellets shipped to Drax Power Station compared to 243kt in 2015. 
We incurred costs of £2 million in the delivery of strategic options across the business, including the acquisition of Opus Energy and 
four OCGT sites (see below). These investments have been offset by operating cost savings delivered from our ongoing focus on cost 
and value efficiency across our Group. In particular, our Generation business delivered a net saving of £12 million in operating costs 
compared to 2015, despite a record year for the volume and value of maintenance work completed. 
As a result of these costs and the gross margin performance described above, consolidated EBITDA for 2016 was £140 million, 
compared to £169 million in 2015. 
EBIT 
Following the completion of our biomass transformation work, combined depreciation charges and losses on the disposal of fixed 
assets increased from £108 million in 2015 to £113 million in the year. 
NET INTEREST CHARGES 
Net interest charges of £6 million are very low compared to previous years (2015: £17 million) due to substantial gains on balances 
held in foreign currencies following the depreciation of Sterling in the second half of the year.  
UNREALISED GAINS ON DERIVATIVE CONTRACTS 
A key component of the Group’s risk management strategy is the use of forward contracts to secure and de-risk the future cash flows 
of the business. 
Whilst these contracts are all entered for risk management purposes, a proportion of our portfolio is not designated into a hedge 
accounting relationship under IFRS. Where this is the case, the unrealised gains and losses arising from the change in market value of 
these contracts is recognised in our income statement. 
In 2016, we recognised unrealised gains of £177 million (2015: £124 million) within the income statement, below EBITDA and 
excluded from underlying earnings, in respect of outstanding contracts for future delivery. In our balance sheet a similar gain was 
recognised of £327 million (2015: £23 million) in the hedged reserve. 
The gains principally relate to forward foreign currency purchase contracts and reflect the value of our hedge as Sterling has weakened 
substantially against the US dollar and Euro in 2016, currencies in which the majority of our fuel purchases are denominated. 
The term over which we can hedge is limited by available credit lines and market liquidity. Our existing currency hedge extends to 
2021, beyond which if markets remain at current levels there is a risk that the cost of our fuel purchases will materially increase. 
PROFIT BEFORE/AFTER TAX 
Profit before tax, in accordance with IFRS, is £197 million for 2016, compared to £59 million for the previous year. The year-on-year 
change predominantly reflects one-off asset obsolescence charges of £109 million in 2015 and the £53 million increase in unrealised 
gains due to the increased value of our foreign currency purchase contracts described above. 
The tax charge for the year of £3 million (2015: £3 million) is described further below and results in profit after tax of £194 million 
(2015: £56 million), or basic earnings per share of 48 pence (2015: 14 pence). 
UNDERLYING PROFIT BEFORE/AFTER TAX (“UNDERLYING EARNINGS”) 
We also calculate underlying earnings, which excludes the effect of unrealised gains and losses on derivative contracts, to assess the 
performance of our Group without the P&L volatility introduced by non-cash fair value adjustments on our portfolio of forward 
commodity and currency purchase contracts. 
In addition, in 2016 we have excluded from the underlying earnings the material one-off non-cash credit arising from the recognition 
of a £31 million deferred tax asset in relation to accumulated start-up losses in our US business. The business has now reached an 
operational maturity which makes future profitability probable. In 2015 we excluded an asset obsolescence charge of £109 million. 
Underlying profit before tax for 2016 of £21 million reduced from £46 million in 2015, reflecting lower EBITDA and higher 
depreciation charges, partially offset by lower net interest costs. 
The underlying tax credit for 2016 of £nil (2015: £1 million) excludes the tax effect of non-underlying translations. 
This results in underlying EPS of 5 pence per share (2015: 11 pence per share). 
FINANCIAL POSITION 
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE 
Capital expenditure of £96 million, reduced from £174 million in 2015, reflects lower biomass transformation spend and ongoing 
maintenance expenditure in respect of our generating assets partially offset by investment in our US pellet plants. 
Total spend on our biomass transformation stands at £673 million. With the generation transformation complete and a small level of 
residual work to conclude our Industrial Emissions Directive compliance work in 2017 the project has been delivered in line with 
original cost estimates. 
Looking forward, we have assessed the likely future prospects of our existing generation fleet and associated assets and have taken the 
decision to reduce the expected remaining useful economic life of coal-specific assets to a long stop date of 2025, in line with the 
government’s stated ambition for the cessation of unabated coal generation. This will result in an acceleration of depreciation up to 
2025 and higher depreciation charges of approximately £30 million per annum, from 2017.  
We remain confident in the future prospects of our generating assets and stand ready to convert more of our units to run on biomass 
fuel with the right support. Furthermore, we will invest in our generating units’ reliability and flexibility to ensure we can continue to 
provide the essential services required by the grid and maximise the value of our Generation business. We will continue to invest in 
optimising our generation and wood pellet manufacturing assets to ensure we can continue to deliver a secure and flexible energy 
source, and take opportunities to grow the Group’s capabilities. 
CASH GENERATED FROM OPERATIONS 
Cash generated from operations amounted to £213 million in 2016, a £47 million increase from the previous year. 
Despite the reduction in profitability year on year our continued focus on efficient working capital and cash management helped to 
release a further £62 million of cash, principally driven by the acceleration of Retail receivable cash flows following the execution of a 
new monetisation facility in the first half of the year. 
We also realised a small net cash inflow of £13 million on our ROC and LEC assets (2015: outflow of £86 million) reflecting the 
value of these assets generated but not yet sold on our balance sheet, which reduced to £257 million (2015: £270 million). Historically, 
this value has increased as we generated additional ROCs from biomass-fired generation. Cash from ROCs is typically realised several 
months after the ROC is earned, however we have optimised our trading activities to monetise a proportion of these assets and 
accelerate these cash flows which, for the first time, offset this impact. With the conversion of our third unit under a CfD contract 
from December 2016, the volume of ROCs we generate in future years will reduce with a consequent benefit to our cash flows in 
2017. 
The overall net cash inflow for the year was £95 million (2015: net outflow of £47 million) and includes capital investments of £93 
million (2015: £179 million) and dividend payments of £11 million (2015: £50 million). 
NET DEBT AND FUNDING 
Net debt at 31 December 2016 was £93 million, compared to £187 million at the end of 2015, reflecting a stable funding platform and 
the net cash inflow described above. 
Our primary funding platform remains consistent with that in the previous year, with £325 million of term loans drawn down. The 
maturity profile of our loans extends to 2024, with the first repayments due in 2017. 
We remain committed to a strong balance sheet and plan to refinance our existing debt as well as our Opus acquisition facility during 
2017, while maintaining a rating in the BB range. 
OTHER INFORMATION 
ACQUISITION OF OPUS ENERGY GROUP LIMITED 
On 6 December 2016 we announced the proposed acquisition of Opus Energy Group Limited (Opus), a well-established and proven 
energy retail business serving the SME market, for consideration of £340 million cash. 
As a Class 1 transaction, the proposed acquisition was approved by shareholders at a general meeting on 8 February 2017 and 
concluded on 10 February 2017, with Drax obtaining control of Opus at that date. Opus is expected to deliver enhanced margins to 
Drax’s retail business having experienced consistent mid-single digit operating profit/EBIT margins over the last three financial years. 
The acquisition is partly financed by a new short-term debt facility of up to £375 million of which £200 million has been drawn down, 
repayable by July 2018. The facility is solely for acquisition purposes. 
ACQUISITION OF OPEN CYCLE GAS TURBINE DEVELOPMENTS 
On 6 December 2016, we also announced the acquisition of four 299MW Open Cycle Gas Turbine (OCGT) development projects in 
the UK for initial cash consideration of £18.5 million. 
The initial consideration was funded from existing cash reserves. Assuming full development, the total investment in each project is 
expected to be in the range of £80-100 million with the timing of this investment dependent upon the timing of associated capacity 
market contracts. 
The net assets acquired as part of this acquisition had a fair value of £22 million.  
TAXATION 
The 2016 tax charge of £3 million compares to £3 million in 2015. In 2016, the one-off non-cash deferred tax credits arising from the 
reduction of future UK corporation tax rates to 17% from 2021 (£12 million) and the recognition of deferred tax assets associated with 
start-up losses in our US business for which we consider the associated future tax benefit to be probable (£31 million) reduced the 
overall tax charge. 
The underlying effective rate of tax (excluding the post-tax impact of unrealised gains on derivatives contracts and US deferred tax) is 
-10%, less than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK, the difference arising predominantly from the impact of the corporation 
tax rate changes described above. The comparable underlying rate in 2015, which excluded the post-tax impact of asset obsolescence 
charges, was -4% and also included the impact of future corporation tax rate changes announced in the 2015 Budget. 
Cash taxes paid during the year were £2 million (2015: £6 million). 
DISTRIBUTIONS 
The Board has begun a review of our dividend policy, but for 2016 our policy remains to distribute 50% of underlying earnings in 
each year. Underlying earnings for the year ended 31 December 2016 were £21 million (2015: £46 million), as described above. 
On 22 February 2016 the Board resolved, subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) on 20 April 
2016, to pay a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2015 of 0.6 pence per share (£2.4 million). The final dividend was 
subsequently paid on 13 May 2016. 
On 25 July 2016, the Board resolved to pay an interim dividend for the six months ending 30 June 2016 of 2.1 pence per share (£8.6 
million), representing 50% of underlying earnings for the period. The interim dividend was paid on 7 October 2016. 
At the forthcoming AGM, the Board will recommend to shareholders that a resolution is passed to approve payment of a final 
dividend for the year ended 31 December 2016 of 0.4 pence per share (£1.8 million), payable on or before 12 May 2017. 
Shares will be marked ex-dividend on 20 April 2017. 
VIABILITY STATEMENT 
STATEMENT OF VIABILITY 
In accordance with provision C.2.2 of the 2014 version of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the directors have assessed the 
prospects of the Group over a period significantly longer than the 12 months required by the going concern provision. 
In preparing this assessment of viability the Board has considered the principal risks faced by the Group, relevant financial forecasts 
and sensitivities, the availability of adequate funding and the strength of the Group’s control environment. 
ASSESSMENT PERIOD 
The Board conducted this assessment over a period of three years, which was selected for the following reasons: 
– 
The Group’s Business Plan (the Plan), which is reviewed and assessed on a quarterly basis and is used for strategic decision 
making, includes a range of financial forecasts and associated sensitivity analysis. This Plan covers a three-year period in detail.  
– 
Within the three-year period liquid commodity market curves and established contract positions are used in the forecasts. Liquid 
curves typically cover a one to two-year window and contracts cover periods between one and ten years. In particular, we 
benefit from the stable and material earnings stream available from the CfD until 2027. Selecting a three-year period balances 
short-term market liquidity against our longer term contractual positions.  
– 
Within a three-year horizon there is limited certainty around markets and regulatory regimes. However, in selecting this period 
the Board has assumed no material changes to the Group’s mid-term regulatory environment and associated support regimes.  
REVIEW OF PRINCIPAL RISKS 
The Group’s principal risks and uncertainties have been considered over the period. 
The principal risks with the potential to exert significant influence on viability are: commodity price changes, political and regulatory 
changes, biomass acceptability changes and plant operating failures. A significant adverse change to the status of each risk has the 
potential to place material financial stress on the Group. 
The risks have been evaluated, where possible, to assess the potential impact of each on the viability of the Group, should that risk 
arise in its unmitigated form. The potential inputs have been included, where appropriate, as sensitivities to the Plan and considered by 
the Board as part of the approval process required before the Plan is adopted by the Group. 
REVIEW OF FINANCIAL FORECASTS 
The Plan considers the Group’s financial position, performance, cash flows, covenant compliance and other key financial ratios over 
the period and was most recently updated to reflect current market and environment conditions in December 2016. 
In addition, the Plan considers the financial impact of the Opus acquisition and the implications for the earnings, cash flows and 
working capital position of the Group. 
The Plan includes certain assumptions, the most material of which relate to commodity market price curves and levels of subsidy 
support available to the Group through the generation of biomass-backed renewable power. 
The Plan is subject to stress testing, which involves the construction of reasonably foreseeable scenarios, including those aligned to 
the principal risks, which test the robustness of the Plan when key variables are flexed both individually and in unison. Where such a 
scenario suggests a risk to viability, the availability and quantum of mitigating actions is considered. 
The Board considers the most significant of these scenarios in the assessment period to be a significant deterioration of commodity 
market prices, leading to a fall in the available price for power and thus a fall in the margins available to the Group from its power 
generation activities. This has been considered in the Plan and the Board is satisfied that in such a scenario sufficient actions could be 
taken to preserve the viability of the Group. 
AVAILABILITY OF ADEQUATE FUNDING 
The sources of funding available to the Group are set out in further detail below. The Board expects these sources, along with cash 
flows generated by the Group from its normal operations, to provide adequate levels of funding to support the execution of the 
Group’s Plan. 
The £375 million loan facility entered during February 2017 to finance the Opus acquisition matures during July 2018 and the debt 
drawn will therefore need to be refinanced or renewed during the three-year period. A full review of the Group’s sources of funding is 
now underway and the Board remains confident that this will result in adequate funding being available beyond the viability horizon. 
 
EXPECTATIONS 
The directors have considered all the factors in their assessment of viability over the next three years, including the latest Plan, 
scenario analysis, levels of funding, control environment and the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group. The directors have 
also considered the availability of actions within their control in the event of plausible negative scenarios occurring. They have a 
reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year 
period of their assessment. 
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES 
The Board is responsible for defining risk appetite and ensuring the effectiveness of risk management and internal controls across the 
Group. The Group has a comprehensive system of governance controls to manage key risks. 
GROUP APPROACH TO RISK MANAGEMENT 
The Group has a Risk Management Policy in place, approved by the Board which defines the Group’s approach to risk management. 
The key elements of the Policy are as follows: 
– 
identify principal risks that threaten the achievement of our strategic objectives then assess their significance to the business;  
– 
put in place appropriate mitigating controls to manage identified risks to an acceptable level;  
– 
escalate and report principal risk and control information to support management decision making;  
– 
assign responsibility and define accountabilities for risk management and put these into practice across the Group;  
– 
continuously monitor the changing risk environment, the Group’s principal risks, the effectiveness of mitigation strategies and 
the application of the risk framework.  
The approach manages rather than eliminates the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and provides reasonable, not absolute, 
assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
The risk management governance structure includes seven business risk management committees (RMCs). 
Each RMC reports to the executive management of that area, assisting in the management of their risks. In turn, each executive is 
responsible for their risks to the Group Executive Committee. 
Each RMC is responsible for ensuring that all risks associated with its specific area of the business are identified, analysed and 
managed systematically and appropriately. Each RMC has terms of reference that require local level risk policies and control systems 
to be approved, implemented and monitored in order to ensure that activities are commensurate with the risk appetite established by 
the Board, are adequately resourced and comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Each RMC reports to the Board 
annually on the management of risks within the scope of its responsibilities. 
RMCs review new and emerging risks and changes to existing risks. A top down review of risks is performed by each RMC and by 
the Group Executive Committee on at least an annual basis. New risks are also identified during development of the Business Plan. 
A new Group risk scoring matrix has been adopted in 2016 to align scoring across all RMCs. Risks are scored based on impact and 
probability as follows: 
The Group Executive Committee and the Board review reporting on critical and high risks from each RMC at least annually and from 
Group Risk biannually. In addition, the Audit Committee reviews the suitability and effectiveness of risk management processes and 
controls on behalf of the Board. 
INTERNAL CONTROL 
The Group has a comprehensive and well-defined internal control system with clear structures, delegated authority levels and 
accountability. The Board has adopted a Schedule of Matters which are required to be brought to it for decision. The internal control 
system is designed to ensure that the directors maintain full and effective control over all significant strategic, financial and 
organisational issues. 
Through the Audit Committee, the Board has implemented a programme of internal audits of different aspects of the Group’s 
activities. The programme is developed based on an assessment of the key risks of the Group, the existing assurance and controls in 
place to manage the risks and to the core financial control framework. 
The results of each internal audit are documented in a report for internal distribution and action. A full copy of the report is distributed 
to the Group Executive Committee and the Chair of the Audit Committee, with an executive summary going to the other members of 
the Audit Committee. Each report includes management responses to Internal Audit’s findings and recommendations and an 
agreement of the actions that management will take to improve the risk management and the internal control framework. In addition to 
the results of work undertaken by Internal Audit, the Audit Committee also satisfies itself that an action plan is in place and 
management are addressing issues raised by the external auditor in their yearly management letter. 
Based on the reporting from the RMCs and from the Audit Committee in 2016, the Board determined that it was not aware of any 
significant deficiency or material weakness in the system of internal control. 
CHANGE IN RISK PROFILE 
Risks are reported to the Board and disclosed in the annual report and accounts under eight principal risk headings. This has increased 
from five principal risks disclosed in 2015. 
– 
Information Systems and Security risks have been included in their own right in 2016, rather than being combined under a 
Corporate risk heading as in 2015. Corporate Risk has been removed.  
– 
Environment, Health and Safety risk has been separated out from Plant Operating Risk.  
– 
Delivery of our Growth Strategy has been added to reflect the adoption of the Group’s new growth strategy and the focus of 
senior management on ensuring its successful implementation.  
– 
Whilst People risk has always existed for the Group, it is now a principal risk as there is increased reliance on key staff due to 
the pace of strategic change.  
1. Strategic risks 
Context 
Mitigations 
Movement 
Changes in factors 
impacting risk in 2016 
Strategic 
Priorities 
The Group has adopted a new 
policy designed to reduce the 
exposure to commodity price 
movements and strengthen the 
long-term future at the Group. 
The strategy includes 
acquisitions and expansion into 
new activities with their 
associated risks. 
Risk and impact 
– The benefits from our strategy 
may not be realised fully if 
we do not integrate Opus 
effectively. 
– Development of the four 
OCGT plants is dependent on 
winning contracts in capacity 
market auctions which is not 
certain. 
– The markets where we 
operate and are looking to 
grow are constantly evolving, 
making the identification and 
implementation of further 
opportunities for growth more 
challenging. 
– A rigorous programme 
management framework 
has been established to 
drive successful integration 
of Opus Energy. 
– Significant development 
costs for the OCGT plants 
will only be incurred if a 
contract is won in a 
capacity market auction. 
– We continually analyse the 
changing dynamics of the 
markets in which we 
operate. 
– A programme of research 
and development into new 
technologies, products and 
markets has been 
established. 
Increased 
– A new purpose and 
strategy and the 
acquisition of Opus 
Energy and four OCGT 
development projects. 
– We are actively 
pursuing potential 
acquisitions of pellet 
plant facilities. 
Targeted long-
term growth 
2. Political and regulatory risks 
 
Context 
Mitigations 
Movement 
Changes in factors 
impacting risk in 2016 
Strategic 
Priorities 
We remain vulnerable to 
changes in government policy. 
The energy sector is subject to 
detailed legislation and 
regulation that is frequently 
changing and ever more 
stringent. 
Risk and impact 
– Changes to UK policy and 
regulations may reduce our 
ability to deliver our 
– Engagement with 
politicians across the 
political spectrum and 
Government officials to 
influence thinking. 
– Communication of our 
socio-economic value to 
the UK. 
– Working with think tanks 
and specialist consultants 
to establish Drax as a 
Constant 
– The government has 
confirmed that 
biomass conversions 
will not be eligible to 
participate in the 2017 
CfD auction. 
– The government has 
confirmed the Carbon 
Price Floor will 
remain unchanged at 
its current level until 
2020/21. 
Higher Quality 
Diversified 
Earnings 
Operational 
Excellence 
forecast earnings from our 
base business and our 
growth strategy, putting 
pressure on our financial 
results and cash flows. 
– More complex and 
challenging regulations 
could lead to non- 
compliance. 
thought leader on priority 
policy and regulatory 
issues. 
– Engagement with 
regulators to ensure 
compliance with 
regulatory requirements. 
– Working with Energy UK 
to develop voluntary 
codes of practice in retail. 
– Government has 
issued a consultation 
on the closure of all 
coal stations in the 
UK by 2025.  
– Brexit has created 
uncertainty over UK 
participation in, and 
influence over, 
discussions on new 
EU legislation  
– The growing 
importance of 
principles based 
regulation in the retail 
sector was 
emphasized by 
Ofgem’s plans to 
extend the scope of 
principles in the 
supply licence, and by 
significant penalties 
on suppliers for 
failures under the 
standards and conduct 
principle.  
– There has been an 
increase in the 
momentum of the 
smart meter roll-out. 
Ofgem has been 
consistent on the 
importance of 
achieving the roll-out 
timetable and has 
fined one company 
for failures under the 
related advanced 
meter programme.  
– The obligation from 
the CMA enquiry on 
improving customer 
engagement and 
competition, to 
disclose prices of all 
acquisition and 
retention contracts for 
microbusinesses, will 
result in increased 
costs. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. Biomass acceptability risks 
Context 
Mitigations 
Movement 
Changes in factors 
impacting risk in 2016 
Strategic 
Priorities 
The biomass market is still 
relatively new, sustainability 
legislation at both an EU and 
UK level is evolving, and 
public understanding of the 
benefits of the technology 
needs to be improved. 
Risk and impact 
– EU or UK sustainability 
policy changes could be 
excessively onerous and 
make it difficult for us to 
comply with policy 
requirements and claim 
subsidy in support of 
economic biomass 
generation.  
– Detractors and some 
eNGOs have been known to 
act in concert to try and 
influence policymakers 
against wider biomass use 
and future biomass 
conversions, which could 
make it difficult to gain 
support for further 
conversions. 
– Increased engagement 
across all European 
Institutions (Commission, 
Parliament, Council), and 
relevant UK government 
departments. 
– Strong coalition with 
other utilities and those 
engaged in forest 
industries including using 
EU and US forestry 
expertise to brief 
Brussels. 
– Increased transparency in 
how we evidence 
sustainability. 
– Working with academics, 
think tanks and specialist 
consultants to improve 
understanding and 
analysis of the benefits of 
biomass. 
– Engagement with key 
NGOs to discuss issues of 
contention. 
– Media, including social 
media, presence to 
respond in the public 
domain to eNGOs. 
Constant 
– UK sustainability 
standards became 
mandatory in 
December 2015 and 
we have demonstrated 
full compliance to 
date 
– The European 
Commission has 
published its draft 
biomass sustainability 
criteria as part of the 
new Renewable 
Energy Directive (so 
called Winter 
Package), following 
extensive 
consultation. The 
proposal includes 
substantial elements 
similar to the UK’s 
existing sustainability 
regime but is still 
subject to Council and 
Parliament scrutiny 
and negotiation. 
Higher Quality 
Diversified 
Earnings 
Operational 
Excellence 
 
4 . Plant operating risks 
Context 
Mitigations 
Movement 
Changes in factors 
impacting risk in 2016 
Strategic 
Priorities 
The reliability of our operating 
plant is central to our ability to 
create value for the Group. 
Risk and impact 
– Single point failures of 
plant could result in forced 
outages in our generation or 
pellet production plants.  
– Changes in generation 
running regimes expose us 
to new and emerging 
technical risks which could 
result in higher than 
forecast forced outage 
levels.  
– Successful generation using 
biomass requires stringent 
– Comprehensive risk based 
plant investment and 
maintenance programme.  
– Adequate insurance in 
place to cover losses from 
plant failure where 
possible.  
– Significant research and 
development on the 
production of wood 
pellets as well as the 
handling and burning of 
biomass.  
– Full testing of all biomass 
supplies prior to 
acceptance and the use of 
contractual rights to reject 
out of specification 
Increased 
– The increase in 
intermittent 
generation has led to a 
reduction in 
transmission system 
stability and a more 
volatile pattern of 
running for our units, 
principally the coal 
units, which places 
additional thermal 
stress on the units. 
– Lack of demand in the 
biomass market is 
putting suppliers 
under price pressure 
which in turn could 
compromise pellet 
quality as suppliers 
– Operational 
Excellence 
quality throughout the 
supply chain, which 
continues to evolve and 
mature. Poor quality could 
result in unplanned loss of 
generation. 
cargoes.  
– Stringent safety 
procedures in place for 
handling biomass and dust 
management.  
– Increased sampling and 
analysis through the 
supply chain to increase 
understanding of causes 
of fuel quality issues. 
look to reduce 
production costs. 
5. Trading and commodity risks 
Context 
Mitigations 
Movement 
Changes in factors 
impacting risk in 2016 
Strategic 
Priorities 
The margins of our generation 
and retail businesses are 
influenced by commodity 
market movements, which are 
inherently volatile. 
Risk and impact 
– Fluctuations in commodity 
prices, particularly gas and 
power, could result in lower 
margins and a reduction in 
cash flow in our generation 
business. 
– Drax Power may fail to 
secure future grid system 
services contracts which are 
a source of revenue 
diversity for the Group. 
– Following Brexit, foreign 
exchange rates have moved 
adversely against the pound 
sterling, which could result 
in higher costs on unhedged 
exposures in the midterm. 
– The value of ROCs 
generated may be lower 
than forecast if the recycle 
value outturns below BEIS’ 
projections due to higher 
than anticipated renewable 
generation. 
– High levels of forward 
power sales for 2017. 
– Hedging retail commodity 
price exposures when 
fixed price sales are 
executed with third 
parties. 
– Wood pellets purchased 
under long term contracts 
with fixed pricing. 
– Significant forward 
foreign exchange hedging 
in place. 
Constant 
– Low power prices and 
more intermittent 
generation have 
reduced economic 
off-peak running, 
especially for coal-
fired generation. 
– Prices for wood 
pellets were 
depressed in 2016 due 
to oversupply in the 
market. 
– Sterling exchange 
rates against the euro 
and dollar have 
experienced 
significant adverse 
movements since 
Brexit and remain 
weak. 
– Low Recycle Fund 
outturn for 2015/16 
RO compliance year 
as ROC production 
exceeded BEIS 
estimates. 
Management 
of Commodity 
Market 
Exposure 
6. Information systems and security risks 
Context 
Mitigations 
Movement 
Changes in factors 
impacting risk in 2016 
Strategic 
Priorities 
The availability, integrity and 
security of our IT systems and 
company data are essential to 
support operations of the 
Group. 
 
Risk and impact 
 
– Business continuity, 
disaster recovery and 
crisis management plans 
in place across the Group. 
– Cyber security measures, 
including a defence, 
Constant 
– Significant 
investment in our 
critical IT systems 
has improved the 
general resilience of 
the core systems. 
Operational 
Excellence 
– Non-availability of IT 
systems, or a breach in their 
security, could result in the 
inability to operate systems 
or our information could be 
compromised. 
– If our IT architecture does 
not meet the increasingly 
demanding and complex 
requirements of the Group, 
we may not deliver our 
growth plans effectively. 
detect, remedy strategy, in 
place. 
– IT transformation 
programme in place to 
deliver upgraded 
architecture. 
– Development of the 
IT transformation 
programme which is 
now being 
implemented. 
7. People risks 
Context 
Mitigations 
Movement 
Changes in factors 
impacting risk in 2016 
Strategic 
Priorities 
We need to ensure we have the 
right people in place with the 
leadership and specialist skills 
to help the Group to compete, 
innovate and grow. 
 
Risk and impact 
– Our performance and the 
delivery of our strategy is 
dependent upon having 
strong, high-quality leaders 
and engaged and talented 
people at all levels of the 
organisation. 
– Retention and talent 
development strategies in 
place. 
– Regular staff surveys to 
monitor engagement 
levels and alignment of 
people with Group values. 
– Career management 
programme. 
– Regular staff 
communications 
Increased 
– Development of the 
new strategy HR 
identified areas across 
the Group that will 
require strengthening 
as the strategy is 
executed. 
Operational 
Excellence 
8. Environment, health and safety risks 
Context 
Mitigations 
Movement 
Changes in factors 
impacting risk in 2016 
Strategic 
Priorities 
The health and safety risks of 
the environment in which we 
operate make our strong 
standards and culture crucially 
important. 
 
Risk and impact 
– The health and safety 
environment is subject to 
numerous and evolving 
health, safety and 
environmental laws, 
regulations and standards. If 
we do not operate safely and 
comply with regulations the 
wellbeing and satisfaction 
of our workforce and levels 
of outage could be 
adversely affected. 
– Well embedded health 
and safety systems based 
on world leading systems 
– Continuous review of 
health and safety systems 
particularly as we increase 
our experience and 
operating knowledge of 
handling and burning 
biomass. 
Constant 
– World class personal 
safety performance 
for the year with 
TRIR well above the 
industry benchmark. 
– No legislative 
changes in the year. 
Operational 
Excellence 
 
Dorothy Thompson CBE 
Will Gardiner 
Chief Executive, Drax Group 
Chief Financial Officer 
 
 
 
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT 
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and 
regulations. 
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the directors are required to 
prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the 
European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial statements in 
accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable 
law), set out in FRS 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework”. Under company law the directors must not approve the accounts unless 
they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for 
that period. 
In preparing the Parent Company financial statements, the directors are required to: 
– 
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;  
– 
make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent;  
– 
state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and 
explained in the financial statements; and  
– 
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue 
in business.  
In preparing the Group financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that directors: 
– 
properly select and apply accounting policies;  
– 
present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable 
information;  
– 
provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to 
understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entity’s financial position and financial 
performance; and  
– 
make an assessment of the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern.  
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that 
the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company 
and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. 
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s 
website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from 
legislation in other jurisdictions. 
Responsibility statement 
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: 
– 
the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view of the 
assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken 
as a whole;  
– 
the Strategic report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company 
and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that they face; and  
– 
the annual report and financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, business model and strategy.  
This responsibility statement was approved by the Board of directors on 15 February 2017 and is signed on its behalf by: 
 
 
Dorothy Thompson CBE 
Will Gardiner 
Chief Executive, Drax Group 
Chief Financial Officer 
 
 
 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 
 
 
 
Years ended 31 December 
 
2016 
2015 
Notes 
£m 
£m 
Revenue 
3 
2,949.8 
3,065.0 
Fuel costs in respect of generation 
 
(1,154.2) 
(1,309.9) 
Cost of power purchases 
 
(907.8) 
(851.3) 
Grid charges 
 
(379.7) 
(369.5) 
Other retail costs 
 
(131.7) 
(125.5) 
Total cost of sales 
 
(2,573.4) 
(2,656.2) 
Gross profit 
 
376.3 
408.8 
Operating and administrative expenses 
 
(236.3) 
(239.8) 
EBITDA(1) 
 
140.0 
169.0 
Depreciation 
 
(109.5) 
(100.4) 
Asset obsolescence charges 
 
– 
(109.2) 
Loss on disposal 
 
(3.8) 
(7.1) 
Unrealised gains on derivative contracts 
 
176.8 
123.7 
Operating profit 
 
203.5 
76.0 
Interest payable and similar charges 
5 
(7.0) 
(18.4) 
Interest receivable 
5 
0.6 
1.4 
Profit before tax 
 
197.1 
59.0 
Tax: 
 
 
 
– Before effect of changes in rate of corporation tax 
6 
(13.0) 
(20.5) 
– Effect of changes in rate of corporation tax 
6 
9.8 
17.8 
Total tax charge 
 
(3.2) 
(2.7) 
Profit for the year attributable to equity holders 
 
193.9 
56.3 
Underlying profit after tax (2) 
7 
20.5 
46.0 
Earnings per share 
 
pence 
pence 
– Basic 
7 
48 
14 
– Diluted 
 
47 
14 
All results relate to continuing operations. 
(1) EBITDA is profit before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and unrealised gains and losses on derivative contracts.  
(2) Underlying profit after tax excludes the post-tax effect of unrealised gains and losses on derivative contracts, plus particular transactions considered to be 
one-off in nature that do not reflect the underlying trading performance of the Group. A reconciliation of profit after tax (calculated in accordance with 
IFRS) to underlying profit after tax is provided in note 7. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
 
 
 
Years ended 31 December 
 
2016 
2015 
Notes 
£m 
£m 
Profit for the year 
 
193.9 
56.3 
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss: 
 
  
Actuarial (losses)/gains on defined benefit pension scheme 
 
(8.4) 
1.2 
Deferred tax on actuarial (losses)/gains on defined benefit pension scheme 
 
1.6 
(0.2) 
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss: 
 
  
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 
 
(9.1) 
(2.9) 
Fair value gains on cash flow hedges 
 
330.1 
23.4 
Deferred tax on cash flow hedges before corporation tax rate change 
 
(62.6) 
(4.7) 
Impact of corporation tax rate change on deferred tax on cash flow hedges 
 
3.0 
(0.2) 
Other comprehensive income 
 
254.6 
16.6 
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to equity holders 
 
448.5 
72.9 
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET 
 
 
 
As at 31 December 
 
2016 
2015 
Notes 
£m 
£m 
Assets 
 
 
 
Non-current assets 
 
 
 
Goodwill and other intangible assets 
 
36.2 
26.3 
Property, plant and equipment 
 
1,641.5 
1,653.8 
Deferred tax assets 
6 
33.5 
– 
Derivative financial instruments 
 
486.3 
278.4 
 
 
2,197.5 
1,958.5 
Current assets 
 
 
 
Inventories 
 
287.5 
224.0 
ROC and LEC assets 
 
257.6 
270.1 
Trade and other receivables 
 
292.9 
319.3 
Derivative financial instruments 
 
405.0 
330.8 
Cash and cash equivalents 
 
228.4 
133.8 
Current tax assets 
 
– 
0.6 
 
 
1,471.4 
1,278.6 
Liabilities 
 
 
 
Current liabilities 
 
 
 
Trade and other payables 
 
591.9 
488.0 
Current tax liabilities 
 
6.1 
– 
Borrowings 
11 
35.9 
0.3 
Derivative financial instruments 
 
251.0 
274.3 
 
 
884.9 
762.6 
Net current assets 
 
586.5 
516.0 
Non-current liabilities 
 
 
 
Borrowings 
11 
286.0 
320.1 
Derivative financial instruments 
 
112.5 
300.1 
Provisions 
 
35.0 
30.5 
Deferred tax liabilities 
6 
275.2 
191.9 
Retirement benefit obligations 
 
30.1 
29.5 
 
 
738.8 
872.1 
Net assets 
 
2,045.2 
1,602.4 
Shareholders’ equity 
 
 
 
Issued equity 
 
47.0 
46.9 
Capital redemption reserve 
 
1.5 
1.5 
Share premium 
 
424.2 
424.2 
Merger reserve 
 
710.8 
710.8 
Hedge reserve 
 
305.4 
34.9 
Translation reserve 
 
(10.2) 
(1.1) 
Retained profits 
9 
566.5 
385.2 
Total shareholders’ equity 
 
2,045.2 
1,602.4 
The consolidated financial statements of Drax Group plc, registered number 5562053, were approved and authorised for issue 
by the Board of directors on 15 February 2017. 
Signed on behalf of the Board of directors: 
Dorothy Thompson CBE 
Will Gardiner 
Chief Executive, Drax Group 
Chief Financial Officer 
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 
 
 
Issued 
Capital 
 
 
 
 
 
redemption 
Share 
Merger 
Hedge 
Translation 
Retained 
Equity 
Reserve 
premium 
reserve 
reserve 
reserve 
profits 
Total 
£m 
£m 
£m 
£m 
£m 
£m 
£m 
£m 
At 1 January 2015 
46.8 
1.5 
422.8 
710.8 
16.4 
1.8 
372.5 1,572.6 
Profit for the year 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
56.3 
56.3 
Other comprehensive 
income/(expense) 
– 
– 
– 
– 
18.5 
(2.9) 
1.0 
16.6 
Total comprehensive income for the 
year 
– 
– 
– 
– 
18.5 
(2.9) 
57.3 
72.9 
Equity dividends paid (note 8) 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
(49.9) 
(49.9) 
Issue of share capital 
0.1 
– 
1.4 
– 
– 
– 
– 
1.5 
Movement in equity associated with 
share-based payments 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
5.3 
5.3 
At 1 January 2016 
46.9 
1.5 
424.2 
710.8 
34.9 
(1.1) 
385.2 1,602.4 
Profit for the year 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
193.9 
193.9 
Other comprehensive 
income/(expense) 
– 
– 
– 
– 
270.5 
(9.1) 
(6.8) 
254.6 
Total comprehensive income for the 
year 
– 
– 
– 
– 
270.5 
(9.1) 
187.1 
448.5 
Equity dividends paid (note 8) 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
(11.0) 
(11.0) 
Issue of share capital 
0.1 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
0.1 
Movement in equity associated with 
share-based payments 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
5.2 
5.2 
At 31 December 2016 
47.0 
1.5 
424.2 
710.8 
305.4 
(10.2) 
566.5 2,045.2 
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT 
 
 
 
Years ended 31 December 
 
2016 
2015 
Notes 
£m 
£m 
Cash generated from operations 
12 
213.1 
166.0 
Income taxes paid 
 
(1.7) 
(3.8) 
Other gains/(losses) 
 
0.8 
(3.8) 
Interest paid 
 
(21.7) 
(11.9) 
Interest received 
 
0.4 
1.5 
Net cash from operating activities 
 
190.9 
148.0 
Cash flows from investing activities 
 
 
 
Purchases of property, plant and equipment 
 
(93.2) 
(179.1) 
Acquisition of subsidiary 
 
– 
(4.0) 
Redemption of short-term investments 
 
– 
40.1 
Net cash used in investing activities 
 
(93.2) 
(143.0) 
Cash flows from financing activities 
 
 
 
Equity dividends paid 
8 
(11.0) 
(49.9) 
Proceeds from issue of share capital 
 
0.1 
1.5 
Repayment of borrowings 
 
– 
– 
Other financing costs paid 
 
– 
(5.7) 
Net cash absorbed by financing activities 
 
(10.9) 
(54.1) 
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 
 
86.7 
(49.0) 
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 
 
133.8 
180.9 
Effect of changes in foreign exchange rates 
 
7.9 
1.9 
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 
 
228.4 
133.8 
 
1. General information and basis of preparation 
The consolidated financial information for Drax Group plc (the Company) and its subsidiaries (together, the Group) set out in 
this preliminary announcement has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year 
ended 31 December 2016 (the financial statements). 
This preliminary announcement does not constitute the full financial statements prepared in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). The financial statements were approved by the Board of directors on 15 February 2017. 
Statutory accounts for 2015 have been delivered to the Registrar of Companies and those for 2016 will be delivered in due 
course. 
The report of the auditors on the financial statements was unqualified, did not draw attention to any matters by way of emphasis 
without qualifying their report, and did not contain a statement under Section 498 (2) or (3) of the Companies Act 2006 or 
equivalent preceding legislation. 
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union and therefore the 
consolidated financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IFRS Regulations. 
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis and on the historical cost basis, except for certain 
financial assets and liabilities that have been measured at fair value. 
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the financial statements are set out in the 2016 Annual report and 
accounts. These policies have been applied consistently to both years presented.  
2. Segmental reporting 
The Group is organised into three businesses, with a dedicated management team for each, and a central head office providing 
certain corporate functions. Our businesses are: 
– 
Generation: the generation of electricity at Drax Power Station;  
– 
Biomass Supply: production of sustainable compressed wood pellets at our processing facilities in the US; and  
– Retail: the supply of power to business customers and wood pellets to the domestic heat market.  
Each business is an operating segment for the purpose of segmental reporting. Information reported to the Board for the 
purposes of assessing performance and making investment decisions is based on these three operating segments. The measure of 
profit or loss for each reportable segment presented to the Board on a regular basis is EBITDA. 
Operating costs are allocated to segments to the extent they are directly attributable to the activities of that segment. Head office 
costs are included within central operating costs. 
Segment revenues and results 
The following is an analysis of the Group’s revenues and results by reporting segment for the year ended 31 December 2016: 
 
 
Year ended 31 December 2016 
 
Generation £m 
Retail £m 
Biomass 
Supply £m 
Adjustments(1) 
£m 
Consolidated 
£m 
Revenue 
 
 
 
 
 
External sales 
1,622.7 
1,326.4 
0.7 
– 
2,949.8 
Inter-segment sales 
868.2 
– 
72.9 
(941.1) 
– 
Total revenue 
2,490.9 
1,326.4 
73.6 
(941.1) 
2,949.8 
Segment gross profit 
337.0 
23.5 
18.1 
(2.3) 
376.3 
Segment EBITDA 
173.8 
(4.3) 
(6.3) 
(2.3) 
160.9 
Central costs 
 
 
 
 
(20.9) 
Consolidated EBITDA 
 
 
 
 
140.0 
Depreciation and amortisation 
 
 
 
 
(109.5) 
Losses on disposal 
 
 
 
 
(3.8) 
Unrealised gains on derivative contracts 
 
 
 
 
176.8 
Operating profit 
 
 
 
 
203.5 
Net finance costs 
 
 
 
 
(6.4) 
Profit before tax 
 
 
 
 
197.1 
Notes: 
(1)  
Adjustments represent the elimination of intra-group transactions. 
The following is an analysis of the Group’s revenues and results by reporting segment for the year ended 31 December 2015: 
 
 
Year ended 31 December 2015 
 
Generation 
£m 
Retail 
£m 
Biomass 
Supply 
£m 
Adjustments(1) 
£m 
Consolidated 
£m 
Revenue 
 
 
 
 
 
External sales 
1,775.0 
1,290.0 
– 
– 
3,065.0 
Inter-segment sales 
863.2 
– 
28.4 
(891.6) 
– 
Total revenue 
2,638.2 
1,290.0 
28.4 
(891.6) 
3,065.0 
Segment gross profit 
390.1 
19.3 
1.0 
(1.6) 
408.8 
Segment EBITDA 
214.6 
(6.3) 
(14.8) 
193.5 
Central costs 
 
 
 
 
(24.5) 
Consolidated EBITDA 
 
 
 
 
169.0 
Depreciation and amortisation 
 
 
 
 
(100.4) 
Losses on disposal 
 
 
 
 
(7.1) 
Asset obsolescence charges(2) 
 
 
 
 
(109.2) 
Unrealised gains on derivative contracts 
 
 
 
 
123.7 
Operating profit 
 
 
 
 
76.0 
Net finance costs 
 
 
 
 
(17.0) 
Profit before tax 
 
 
 
 
59.0 
Notes: 
(1) 
Adjustments represent the elimination of intra-group transactions.  
(2) 
£102.6 million of the asset obsolescence charges arose in the Generation segment, with the remaining £6.6 in the Biomass Supply segment.  
Assets and working capital are monitored on a consolidated basis, with no separate reporting by segment in the Group's 
management accounts. However, spend on key capital projects is monitored. Total spend on the biomass transformation project 
during 2016 was £29 million (2015: £90 million), of which £7 million (2015: £22 million) relates to construction of assets, in 
the US, within the Biomass Supply segment. 
The accounting policies applied for the purpose of measuring the segments' profits or losses, assets and liabilities are the same as 
those used in measuring the corresponding amounts in the Group's financial statements. The external revenues and results of all 
of our reporting segments are subject to seasonality with higher despatch and prices in the winter months, compared to summer 
months. 
Intra-group trading 
Intra-group transactions are carried out on arms-length, commercial terms that where possible equate to market prices at the time 
of the transaction. During 2016, the Biomass Supply segment sold wood pellets with a total value of £72.9 million (2015: £28.4 
million) to the Generation segment and the Generation segment sold power, ROCs and LECs with a total value of £868.2 
million (2015: £863.2 million) to the Retail segment. 
The impact of all intra-group transactions, including any unrealised profit arising (£2.3 million at 31 December 2016), is 
eliminated on consolidation. 
Major customers 
Total revenue for the year ended 31 December 2016 includes amounts of £541.5 million and £399.3 million (2015: £597.7 
million and £468.0 million) derived from two customers (2015: two customers), each representing 10% or more of the Group’s 
consolidated revenue for the year. These revenues arose in the Generation segment. 
3. Revenue  
Accounting Policy 
Revenue represents amounts receivable for goods or services provided in the normal course of business, net of trade discounts, 
VAT and other sales-related taxes and excluding transactions with or between Group companies. 
Revenues from the sale of electricity from our generating assets in Drax Power are measured based upon metered output 
delivered at rates specified under contract terms or prevailing market rates as applicable. 
Two of our biomass-fuelled generating units earn Renewable Obligation Certificates (ROCs) under the UK government's 
Renewables Obligation (RO) regime. The financial benefit of a ROC is recognised in the income statement at the point the 
relevant renewable biomass fuel is burnt and power dispatched as a reduction in the cost of the biomass fuel. A corresponding 
asset is recognised on the balance sheet. Revenue from sale of ROCs is recognised when the ROC is transferred to the account 
of a third party. 
Revenue from the sale of electricity directly to business customers through our power retail business, Haven Power, is 
recognised on the supply of electricity when a contract exists, supply has taken place, a quantifiable price has been established 
or can be determined and the receivables are expected to be recovered at the point of sale. Energy supplied is measured based 
upon metered consumption and contractual rates; however where a supply has taken place but is not yet measured or billed, the 
revenue calculation is estimated based on consumption statistics and selling price estimates. 
Revenues from the sale of wood pellets through our UK domestic pellet retail business, Billington Bioenergy are recognised at 
the point the pellets are delivered to the location specified in the contract, which is normally the customer's premises. 
Other revenues derived from the provision of services (for example, the supply of ancillary generation services, such as black 
start and frequency response, to National Grid) are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract. Most such 
contracts are for the delivery of a service either continually or on an ad-hoc basis over a period of time and thus stage of 
completion is calculated with reference to the amount of the contract term that has elapsed. Depending on the contract terms this 
approach may require judgement in enhancing probable future outcomes. 
Other revenues derived from the sale of goods (for example, by-products from electricity generation such as ash and gypsum) 
are recognised at the point the risks and rewards of ownership pass to the customer, typically at the point of delivery to the 
customer's premises. 
CfD payments 
The Group is party to a Contract for Difference (CfD) with The Low Carbon Contracts Company (LCCC), a government-owned 
entity responsible for delivering elements of the government's Electricity Market Reform Programme. Under the contract, the 
Group makes or receives payments in respect of electricity dispatched from one of its three biomass-fuelled generating units. 
The payment is calculated with reference to a strike price of £100 per MWh. The strike price is in 2012 terms and increases each 
year indexed to UK CPI and system balancing costs. The strike price at 31 December 2016 was £106 per MWh. 
Where market prices at the point of generation are above/below the strike price, the Group makes/receives an additional 
payment to/from LCCC equivalent to the difference between the market power price at the point of dispatch and the strike price. 
Such payments are in addition to amounts received from the sale of the power in the wholesale market and either increase or 
limit the total income from the power dispatched from the relevant generating unit to the strike price in the CfD contract. 
The Group recognises the income or costs arising from the CfD in the income statement, as a component of revenue, at the point 
the flow of economic benefit becomes probable. This is considered to be the point at which the relevant generation is delivered 
and the payment becomes contractually due. 
The Group began generating under the CfD contract on 21 December 2016 and, in accordance with this policy, accrued £10.3 
million of revenue in respect of amounts due from the LCCC in the period ending 31 December 2016. 
ROC sales 
The generation and sale of ROCs is a key driver of the Group's financial performance. The RO scheme started in April 2002 and 
places an obligation on electricity suppliers to source an increasing proportion of their electricity from renewable sources. Under 
the RO, ROCs are certificates issued to generators of renewable electricity which are then sold to suppliers to demonstrate they 
have fulfilled their obligations under the RO. ROCs are managed in compliance periods (CPs), running from April to March 
annually, CP1 commenced in April 2002. At 31 December 2016 we are in CP15. 
To meet its obligations a supplier can either submit ROCs or pay the "buy-out" price at the end of the CP. The buy-out price was 
set at £30/ROC in CP1 and rises with inflation. ROCs are typically procured in arms-length transactions with renewable 
generators at a market price typically slightly lower than the buy-out price for that CP. At the end of the CP, the amounts 
collected from suppliers paying the buy-out price form the "recycle fund", which is distributed on a pro-rata basis to ROC 
generators. 
The financial benefit of a ROC recognised in the income statement at the point of generation is thus comprised of two parts: the 
expected value to be obtained in a sale transaction with a third party supplier and the expected recycle fund benefit to be 
received at the end of the CP.  
Further analysis of our revenue for the year ending 31 December 2016 is provided in the table below: 
 
Year ended 31 December 2016 
 
External 
£m 
Intra-group 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Generation 
 
 
 
Power sales 
1,193.4 
686.5 
1,879.9 
ROC & LEC sales 
366.7 
181.7 
548.4 
CfD income 
10.3 
– 
10.3 
Ancillary Services 
47.3 
– 
47.3 
Other income 
5.0 
_ 
5.0 
 
 
 
 
Retail 
 
 
 
Power sales 
1,319.6 
– 
1,319.6 
Pellet sales 
6.7 
– 
6.7 
Other income 
0.1 
– 
0.1 
 
 
 
 
Biomass Supply 
 
 
 
Pellet sales 
– 
72.9 
72.9 
Other income 
0.7 
– 
0.7 
 
 
 
 
Elimination of intra-group sales 
– 
(941.1) 
(941.1) 
 
 
 
 
Total Consolidated Revenue 
2,949.8 
– 
2,949.8 
The Group's principal revenues arise from the sale of power, both into the wholesale market via Drax Power, our generation 
business, and to Industrial and Commercial and Small- and Medium-sized Enterprise business customers via Haven Power, our 
energy retail business. The Group also sells wood pellets into the domestic UK heat market via Billington Bioenergy, part of our 
retail business. Drax Biomass, our US-based wood pellet manufacturing business, generates all of its revenues intra-group, 
selling sustainable wood pellets to Drax Power to be used in the electricity generation process. 
ROC sales and CfD income reflect revenues received through government programs to support renewable generation. ROC 
sales reflect consideration received for sales of ROCs by Drax Power to third parties. CfD income reflects amounts received 
under the CfD contract awarded by the UK government to one of our biomass-fuelled electricity generation units. See CfD 
Payments above for further details. 
The following is an analysis of the Group’s revenues in the year ended 31 December 2015: 
 
 
Year ended 31 December 2015 
 
External 
£m 
Internal 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Generation 
 
 
 
Power sales 
1,461.2 
702.2 
2,163.4 
ROC & LEC sales 
290.8 
161.0 
451.8 
CfD income 
– 
– 
– 
Ancillary Services 
14.0 
– 
14.0 
Other income 
9.0 
– 
9.0 
 
 
 
 
Retail 
 
 
 
Power sales 
1,284.9 
– 
1,284.9 
Pellet sales 
4.6 
– 
4.6 
Other income 
0.5 
– 
0.5 
 
 
 
 
Biomass Supply 
 
 
 
Pellet sales 
– 
28.1 
28.1 
Other income 
– 
0.3 
0.3 
 
 
 
 
Elimination of intra-group sales 
– 
(891.6) 
(891.6) 
 
 
 
 
Total Consolidated Revenue 
3,065.0 
– 
3,065.0 
4. Review of fixed assets for impairment  
Accounting policy 
The Group reviews its fixed assets (or, where appropriate, groups of assets known as cash-generating units) whenever there is an 
indication that an impairment loss may have been suffered. The Group considers the smallest collections of assets that generate 
independent cash flows to be its operating entities (Drax Power, Haven Power, Drax Biomass and Billington Bioenergy) and 
accordingly considers the Group to be comprised of four cash-generating units (CGUs). 
If an indication of potential impairment exists, the recoverable amount of the asset or CGU in question is assessed with 
reference to the present value of the future cash flows expected to be derived from the continuing use of the asset or cash-
generating unit (value in use) or the expected price that would be received to sell the asset to another market participant (fair 
value). The initial assessment of recoverable amount is normally based on value in use. 
Where value in use is calculated, the assessment of future cash flows includes all of the necessary costs expected to be incurred 
to generate the cash inflows from the CGU's assets in their current state and condition, including an allocation of centrally 
managed costs. Central costs are only allocated where they are necessary for and directly attributable to the CGU's activities. 
Future cash flows include, where relevant, contracted cash flows arising from our cash flow hedging activities and as a result, 
the carrying amount of each CGU includes the mark-to-market value of those cash flow hedges. 
The additional value that could be obtained from enhancing or converting the Group's assets is not reflected, nor the potential 
benefit of any future restructuring or reorganisation. In determining value in use, the estimate of future cash flows is discounted 
to present value using a pre-tax rate. 
If the recoverable amount is less than the current carrying amount in the financial statements, a provision is made to reduce the 
carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit to the estimated recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognised 
immediately in the income statement. 
Goodwill balances are assessed for impairment annually. 
Critical judgement areas 
In 2015, the market capitalisation of the Group fell materially below the carrying value of the Group's net assets. Whilst the 
shortfall has reduced considerably during 2016, this remains the case at the balance sheet date. In addition, commodity markets 
are weak and the substantial weakening of Sterling against both the Euro and US dollar in the second half of 2016 indicated a 
potentially material increase in the long-term costs of fuel for our generation business, which are predominantly priced in these 
currencies. Accordingly an impairment review of the Drax Power CGU was undertaken at the balance sheet date. A review of 
other CGUs suggested no indicators of impairment. 
The assessment of the present value of future cash flows on which such a review is based is dependent upon a number of 
assumptions. In particular, expected future cash flows are based upon management’s estimates of future prices, output, costs and 
economic support for renewable energy generation (including access to capacity market and ancillary services contracts). Where 
relevant and to the fullest extent possible, the key assumptions are based on observable market information. However, 
observable market information is only available for a limited proportion of the remaining useful lives of the assets under review. 
The most critical of these assumptions are discussed below. 
Impairment review 
The carrying amount of the Drax Power CGU at 31 December 2016 was £1,911 million. The value in use of the Drax Power 
CGU was tested using the Group's established planning model. 
The analysis assumed that Drax Power's three biomass-fuelled generating units would continue in operation until the end of their 
estimated useful lives, currently considered to be 2039. In line with our assumption that coal-fired generation will cease by 
2025, applied in light of the government consultation published in November 2016, the three remaining coal-fired units were 
assumed to cease coal-fired generation by this date but will then be available for conversion to biomass-fired units. No account 
has been taken of any cash inflows that could result from such a conversion (which could take place earlier than 2025) in 
measuring the value in use of the Drax Power CGU. 
The analysis depends on a broad range of assumptions, including the expected life of the six power generating units and the 
regulatory regime under which they might operate. The key assumptions (i.e. those most sensitive to a change, possibly resulting 
in a different outcome for impairment) are considered to be: 
– 
The expected operating lives of the six generating units, as described above;  
– 
Future commodity prices beyond the horizon of our existing contracted purchase and sale commitments - notably power 
prices and biomass prices; 
– 
Future foreign exchange rates beyond the horizon of our existing contracted purchase and sale commitments; and  
– 
The continuance of existing biomass support regimes – CfD and RO – until 2027 and the existence of a favourable 
economic environment for biomass generation thereafter. This includes future capacity market and ancillary services 
revenues. 
These assumptions are all dependent on external market movements. The historic volatility in these assumptions is reflected in 
the financial performance of the Group but past performance is not necessarily a reliable indicator of future values. 
Where available, estimates of future prices are based on signed contracts for purchases and sales with third parties. Transactions 
beyond contracted positions are valued using market data and forward price curves, based where possible on data points 
provided by a reputable third party source, independent to the Group. In particular, longer-term power prices are based on 
Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy and National Grid assumptions. The contracted period for biomass 
purchases is substantially longer, with the longest-dated contracts expiring in 2027. Beyond this point, estimated biomass prices 
are largely based on our internal models and expectations for the biomass market. 
Future foreign exchange rates are based on contracted foreign currency purchases to the extent possible. Beyond our contracted 
position, exchange rate estimates are based on market forward curves and, beyond this point, Bloomberg data. 
Current government plans for existing renewable support mechanisms, namely the CfD and RO, assume these cease in 2027. 
The impairment analysis made no assumptions regarding the direct replacement of these support mechanisms beyond this date. 
The biomass-fuelled units that are assumed to continue to generate power do so supported by the prevailing wholesale power 
price, delivery of ancillary services to the UK grid and an expectation that capacity market revenues would be available to these 
units. Our power price forecasts reflect increased volatility between peak and baseload prices. Assumed revenues from ancillary 
services and the capacity market are based on projections derived from current contracts and capacity market outcomes and how 
we expect the market to evolve. These assumptions reflect our expectation that Drax will be required to provide generation to 
support intermittent renewable power and be an essential part of the UK's energy mix throughout the life of the units. 
The expected future cash flows were discounted using a pre-tax nominal rate of 8.4%. The discount rate is supported by 
observable market reports and independent analysis commissioned by, and specific to the circumstances of the Group. This 
indicated that the recoverable amount of the Drax Power CGU exceeded its carrying value with headroom of approximately 
£200 million and therefore that no provisions for impairment were required. 
Sensitivity analysis indicated that, when compared to our base case assumptions, a reduction of approximately 7% in market 
power prices, an increase in biomass prices of approximately 11%, or a depreciation of Sterling against the US dollar of some 
8% throughout the 23-year term of the valuation would result in a recoverable amount for the Drax Power CGU that is lower 
than its carrying amount. This does not consider the interaction effect of potential changes in several or all of the assumptions 
simultaneously, and the sensitivities do not take account of any mitigating actions that could be taken should the changes 
referred to materialise. In addition, in relation to central costs, no reasonable change in the method of allocation would result in 
an impairment charge. 
5. Net finance costs 
Finance costs reflect expenses incurred in managing our debt structure (such as interest payable on our bank loans) as well as 
foreign exchange gains and losses, the unwinding of discounting on provisions for reinstatement of our sites at the end of their 
useful lives and net interest charged on the Group’s defined benefit pension scheme obligation. These are offset by interest 
income that we generate through efficient use of short-term cash surpluses – for example through investment in money market 
funds. 
 
 
Years ended 31 December 
 
2016 
£m 
2015 
£m 
Interest payable and similar charges: 
 
 
Interest payable on bank borrowings 
(19.4) 
(18.0) 
Unwinding of discount on provisions  
(4.5) 
(0.7) 
Amortisation of deferred finance costs 
(2.1) 
(3.7) 
Net finance cost in respect of defined benefit scheme  
(0.9) 
(1.1) 
Other financing charges 
(2.1) 
(0.8) 
Total interest payable and similar charges 
(29.0) 
(24.3) 
 
 
 
Interest receivable: 
 
 
Interest income on bank deposits 
0.6 
1.4 
Total interest receivable 
0.6 
1.4 
 
 
 
Foreign exchange gains 
22.0 
5.9 
 
 
 
Net interest charge 
(6.4) 
(17.0) 
Foreign exchange gains and losses recognised in interest arise on the retranslation of balances and investments denominated in 
foreign currencies to prevailing rates at the balance sheet date. Sterling weakened against the US dollar and Euro following the 
EU referendum in June, resulting in gains being recognised on assets the Group holds denominated in these currencies. 
Amortisation of deferred finance costs for the previous period include £0.7 million relating to the previous revolving credit 
facility for which amortisation was accelerated following the successful renegotiation of a replacement facility in December 
2015. 
6. Current and deferred taxation 
The tax charge includes both current and deferred tax. Current tax is the estimated amount of tax payable on this year’s taxable 
profits (which are adjusted for items upon which we are not required to pay tax or, in some cases, for items which are not 
allowable for tax purposes and therefore on which we are required to pay additional tax). Deferred tax is an accounting 
adjustment which reflects where more or less tax is expected to arise in the future due to differences between the accounting and 
tax rules (reflected in differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the balance sheet and the 
corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profits). The tax charge reflects the estimated effective tax rate on 
profit before tax for the Group for the year ended 31 December 2016 and the movement in the deferred tax balance in the year, 
so far as it relates to items recognised in the income statement. 
Accounting policy 
Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is based on the taxable profit or loss for the year in the relevant 
jurisdiction. Taxable profit or loss differs from profit/loss before tax as reported in the income statement because it excludes 
items of income or expenditure that are either taxable or deductible in other years or never taxable/deductible. The Group’s 
liability (or asset) for current tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid (or recovered) using the tax rates and laws that have 
been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. 
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and 
liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit. Deferred tax 
liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that 
it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. 
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is 
realised based on jurisdictional tax laws and rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. In 
the UK 2016 Budget, the UK Government proposed a reduction in the rate of UK corporation tax from 18% to 17% from 1 
April 2020. This change was enacted into law in September 2016 and accordingly these rates have been reflected in the UK 
deferred tax balance at 31 December 2016. 
Current and deferred tax are recognised in profit or loss, except when they relate to items that are recognised in other 
comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case, the current and deferred tax are recognised in other comprehensive 
income or directly in equity respectively. 
Significant judgement areas 
In accounting for taxation the Group makes assumptions regarding the treatment of items of income and expenditure for tax 
purposes. The Group believes that these assumptions are reasonable based on prior experience and consultation with advisers. 
Full provision is made for deferred taxation at the rates of tax prevailing at the period end date unless future rates have been 
substantively enacted. Deferred tax assets are recognised where it is considered more likely than not that they will be recovered. 
Where such assets relate to losses incurred by a business unit, particularly one with a history of losses, the Group seeks evidence 
other than its own internal forecasts to support recognition of the related deferred tax asset. 
 
 
Years ended 31 December 
 
2016 
£m 
2015 
£m 
Tax charge comprises: 
 
 
Current tax 
8.5 
1.8 
Deferred tax 
 
 
– Before impact of corporation tax rate change 
4.5 
18.7 
– Impact of corporation tax rate change 
(9.8) 
(17.8) 
Tax charge 
3.2 
2.7 
 
 
Years ended 31 December 
 
2016 
£m 
2015 
£m 
Tax charged on items recognised in other comprehensive income: 
 
 
Deferred tax on actuarial gains on defined benefit pension scheme  
(1.6) 
0.2 
Deferred tax on cash flow hedges  
59.6 
4.9 
 
58.0 
5.1 
UK corporation tax is the main rate of tax for the Group and is calculated at 20% (2015: 20.25%) of the estimated assessable 
profit for the year. Tax for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions. The tax charge 
for the year can be reconciled to the profit per the income statement as follows: 
 
 
Years ended 31 December 
 
2016 
2015 
 
£m 
£m 
Profit before tax 
197.1 
59.0 
Profit before tax multiplied by the rate of corporation tax in the UK of 20% (2015: 20.25%) 
39.4 
11.9 
Effects of: 
 
 
Adjustments in respect of prior periods 
(3.6) 
1.5 
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 
1.7 
0.9 
Impact of change to corporation tax rate 
(9.8) 
(17.8) 
Difference in overseas tax rates and other benefits 
(4.8) 
– 
Deferred tax on prior year start up losses and other temporary differences 
(21.4) 
– 
Other 
1.7 
6.2 
Total tax charge 
3.2 
2.7 
The Adjustments in respect of prior periods principally relates to a Research and Development claim which was successfully 
concluded with HMRC during the period. In 2015 Other items included the US losses which were not recognised for deferred 
tax purposes in that year. 
The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities during each year are shown below. 
Deferred tax (liabilities)/assets 
 
 
Financial 
instruments 
£m 
Accelerated 
capital 
allowances 
£m 
Non-trade 
losses 
£m 
Trade 
losses 
£m 
Other 
liabilities 
£m 
Other 
assets 
£m 
Total 
£m 
At 1 January 2015 
22.5 
(198.4) 
7.6 
– 
(26.6) 
9.0 
(185.9) 
Credited/(charged) to the income statement 
(24.9) 
35.9 
(6.1) 
– 
(4.3) 
(1.5) 
(0.9) 
Charged to equity in respect of actuarial gains 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
(0.2) 
(0.2) 
Charged to equity in respect of cash flow hedges 
(4.9) 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
(4.9) 
At 1 January 2016 
(7.3) 
(162.5) 
1.5 
– 
(30.9) 
7.3 
(191.9) 
(Charged)/credited to the income statement 
(33.9) 
(7.1) 
(1.5) 
35.3 
5.3 
7.2 
5.3 
Charged to equity in respect of actuarial gains 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
1.6 
1.6 
Charged to equity in respect of cash flow hedges 
(59.6) 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
(59.6) 
Effect of changes in foreign exchange rates 
– 
(1.3) 
– 
3.5 
– 
0.7 
2.9 
At 31 December 2016 
(100.8) 
(170.9) 
– 
38.8 
(25.6) 
16.8 
(241.7) 
Deferred tax balances (after offset) for financial 
reporting purposes: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Net deferred tax asset 
– 
(14.4) 
– 
38.8 
– 
9.1 
33.5 
Net deferred tax liability 
(100.8) 
(156.5) 
– 
– 
(25.6) 
7.7 
(275.2) 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where the Group has a legally enforceable right to do so, otherwise are shown 
separately in the balance sheet. 
In the period the Group recognised a net deferred tax asset valued at £34 million in respect of start-up losses and other 
temporary differences in the US-based Drax Biomass business (£21 million of this asset relates to losses that arose in previous 
years). Recognition in 2016 reflects an improvement in operational performance and the Board's increased confidence regarding 
the delivery of future taxable profits against which the losses will be utilised (currently expected by 2027). As a one-off and 
non-cash item, this credit has been excluded from the calculation of underlying earnings and the dividend for 2016. These start-
up losses are valued at the US Federal tax rate as was enacted at the balance sheet date (35%). Should Federal tax rates 
reduce/increase in the future, this will correspondingly reduce/increase (respectively) this net deferred tax asset. 
The Group has not recognised deferred tax assets with an estimated value of £2 million at 31 December 2016 (2015: £2 million), 
in respect of UK losses totalling £12 million, that are carried forward against future taxable income. The business unit involved 
has a history of making losses and until sufficient operational performance is established and maintained to give suitable 
confidence in future profitability, taxable income against which to utilise the benefit of the accumulated losses is not considered 
to be probable. 
7. Earnings per share and underlying earnings per share 
Earnings per share (EPS) represents the amount of our earnings (post-tax profits) that is attributable to each ordinary share we 
have in issue. Basic EPS is calculated by dividing our earnings (profit after tax calculated in accordance with IFRS) by the 
weighted average number of ordinary shares that were in issue during the year. Diluted EPS demonstrates the impact if all 
outstanding share options (such as those to be issued under our employee share schemes), that are expected to vest on their 
future maturity dates, were exercised and treated as ordinary shares as at the balance sheet date. 
In addition to EPS, we calculate underlying EPS as it reflects the figures upon which our annual dividends are calculated (note 
2.8). Underlying EPS removes the post-tax effect of unrealised gains and losses on derivative contracts, plus particular 
transactions considered to be one-off in nature that do not reflect the underlying trading performance of the Group, from post-tax 
profits. Multiplying underlying basic EPS by 50% will give the total dividends per share for the period. 
The table below reconciles earnings, calculated in accordance with IFRS, to underlying profit after tax: 
 
 
 
Years ended 31 December 
 
2016 
2015 
 
£m 
£m 
Earnings: 
 
 
Earnings attributable to equity holders of the Company for the purposes of basic and diluted 
earnings 
193.9 
56.3 
Adjusted for: 
 
 
Unrealised gains on derivative contracts 
(176.8) 
(123.7) 
Asset obsolescence charges 
– 
109.2 
Tax impact of the above items 
33.9 
4.2 
Deferred tax on start-up losses and other temporary differences 
(30.5) 
– 
Underlying profit after tax attributable to equity holders of the Company 
20.5 
46.0 
The effect of potentially dilutive options on the weighted average number of shares in issue at the balance sheet date is shown 
below: 
 
 
Years ended 31 December 
 
2016 
2015 
Number of shares: 
 
 
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share 
(millions) 
406.6 
406.0 
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares under share plans 
2.7 
1.3 
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share 
(millions) 
409.3 
407.3 
 
 
 
Earnings per share – basic (pence) 
48 
14 
Earnings per share – diluted (pence) 
47 
14 
Underlying earnings per share – basic (pence) 
5 
11 
Underlying earnings per share – diluted (pence) 
5 
11 
8. Dividends 
Dividends are amounts we return to our shareholders and are paid as an amount per ordinary share held. Our current dividend 
policy is to return 50% of underlying profit after tax (see note 7) to our shareholders each year. The remaining 50% is retained 
for reinvestment in the business. 
 
 
Years ended 31 December 
 
2016 
2015 
 
£m 
£m 
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year (based on the number of 
shares in issue at the record date): 
 
 
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2016 of 2.1 pence per share paid on 7 October 2016 
8.6 
 
(2015: 5.1 pence per share paid on 9 October 2015) 
20.7 
Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2015 of 0.6 pence per share paid on 13 May 2016 
2.4 
 
(2015: 7.2 pence per share paid on 15 May 2015) 
29.2 
 
11.0 
49.9 
At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting the Board will recommend to shareholders that a resolution is passed to approve 
payment of a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2016 of 0.4 pence per share (equivalent to approximately £1.8 
million) payable on or before 12 May 2017. The final dividend has not been included as a liability as at 31 December 2016. 
9. Retained profits 
Retained profits are a component of our equity reserves. The overall balance reflects the total profits we have generated over our 
lifetime, reduced by the amount of that profit we have distributed to our shareholders. The table below sets out the movements 
in our retained profits during the year. 
 
 
Years ended 31 December 
 
2016 
2015 
 
£m 
£m 
At 1 January 
385.2 
372.5 
Profit for the year 
193.9 
56.3 
Actuarial (losses)/gains on defined benefit pension scheme 
(8.4) 
1.2 
Deferred tax on actuarial (losses)/gains on defined benefit pension scheme 
1.6 
(0.2) 
Equity dividends paid (note 8) 
(11.0) 
(49.9) 
Net movements in equity associated with share-based payments  
5.2 
5.3 
At 31 December 
566.5 
385.2 
Distributable profits 
The capacity of the Group to make dividend payments is primarily determined by the availability of retained distributable profits 
and cash resources. 
The immediate cash resources of the Group of £228.4 million are set out in note 4.2 and the recent history of cash generation 
within note 4.4. The majority of these cash resources are held by the principal operating subsidiaries of the Group, in particular 
Drax Power Limited. 
The Parent Company financial statements disclose the Parent Company’s distributable reserves of £229 million. The Group has, 
relative to previous dividend payments (note 8), sufficient retained profits, which are accessible by the Parent Company, for 
future distributions in accordance with the Group's dividend policy. 
 
10. Reconciliation of net debt 
Net debt is calculated by taking our borrowings and subtracting cash and cash equivalents. The table below reconciles net debt 
in terms of changes in these balances across the year. 
 
 
Years ended 31 December 
 
2016 
2015 
 
£m 
£m 
Net (debt)/cash at 1 January 
(186.6) 
(98.6) 
Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 
86.7 
(49.0) 
(Decrease)/increase in short-term investments 
– 
(40.1) 
Increase in borrowings 
(1.5) 
(0.8) 
Effect of changes in foreign exchange rates 
7.9 
1.9 
Net debt at 31 December 
(93.5) 
(186.6) 
The increase in borrowings reflects the accrual of interest on the Group's term loans. 
11. Borrowings 
Our financing structure includes £325 million of term loans, comprised of a private placement of £100 million with various 
funds managed by M&G Investments, a £75 million amortising loan facility with Friends Life, underpinned by a guarantee from 
HM Treasury under the Infrastructure UK Guarantee Scheme, a £50 million amortising term loan with Green Investment Bank 
and a £100 million amortising term loan facility with M&G UK Companies Financing Fund. The loans have varying maturity 
profiles ranging from 2017 to 2025. All of the term loans were fully drawn down at 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015. 
In addition, the Group has access to a £400 million revolving credit facility (RCF). The facility matures in December 2019 and 
has a margin of 175 basis points over LIBOR. At 31 December 2016 this facility had been utilised to draw down letters of credit 
with a total value of £57.9 million (2015: £37.9 million). 
The Group also has a commodity trading facility, which allows us to transact prescribed volumes of commodity trades without 
the requirement to post collateral. 
Accounting policy 
The Group measures all debt instruments (whether financial assets or financial liabilities) initially at fair value, which equates to 
the principal value of the consideration paid or received. Subsequent to initial measurement, debt instruments are measured at 
amortised cost using the effective interest method. Transaction costs (any such costs incremental and directly attributable to the 
issue of the financial instrument) are included in the calculation of the effective interest rate and are amortised through the 
income statement over the life of the instrument. 
Fees paid on the establishment of loan facilities are recognised as transaction costs of the loan to the extent that it is probable 
that some or all of the facility will be drawn down. Where this is the case, the fee is deferred until the draw-down occurs. 
Analysis of borrowings 
Borrowings at 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015 consisted principally of amounts drawn down against bank loans. 
 
 
As at 31 December 2016 
 
Borrowings 
before 
deferred 
finance costs 
£m 
Deferred 
finance costs 
£m 
Net 
borrowings 
£m 
Term loans 
327.9 
(7.1) 
320.8 
Finance lease liabilities 
1.1 
– 
1.1 
Total borrowings 
329.0 
(7.1) 
321.9 
Less current portion 
(37.9) 
2.0 
(35.9) 
Non-current borrowings 
291.1 
(5.1) 
286.0 
 
 
As at 31 December 2015 
 
Borrowings 
 
 
before 
 
 
deferred 
Deferred 
Net 
 
finance costs 
finance costs 
borrowings 
 
£m 
£m 
£m 
Term loans 
328.4 
(8.9) 
319.5 
Finance lease liabilities 
0.9 
– 
0.9 
Total borrowings 
329.3 
(8.9) 
320.4 
Less current portion 
(0.3) 
– 
(0.3) 
Non-current borrowings 
329.0 
(8.9) 
320.1 
The term loans and RCF are guaranteed and secured by a number of the Group's subsidiary undertakings that are party to the 
security arrangement. 
Post Balance Sheet Event 
The acquisition of Opus Energy Group Limited on 10 February 2017 (See note 13) was partially financed by a new acquisition 
loan facility of £375 million. At the date of approval of these financial statements, £200 million of this facility had been drawn 
down. The facility is unsecured and matures in July 2018. 
12. Cash generated from operations 
Cash generated from operations is the starting point of our cash flow statement. The table below makes adjustments for any non-
cash accounting items to reconcile our net profit for the year to the amount of cash we have generated from our operations. 
 
 
Years ended 31 December 
 
2016 
2015 
 
£m 
£m 
Profit for the year 
193.9 
56.3 
Adjustments for: 
 
 
Interest payable and similar charges 
7.0 
18.4 
Interest receivable 
(0.6) 
(1.4) 
Tax charge 
3.2 
2.7 
Depreciation 
109.5 
100.4 
Asset obsolescence charges 
– 
109.2 
Losses on disposal 
3.8 
7.1 
Unrealised gains on derivative contracts 
(176.8) 
(123.7) 
Defined benefit pension scheme current service cost 
6.0 
6.4 
Non-cash charge for share-based payments 
5.2 
5.3 
Close out of currency contracts(1) 
14.0 
– 
Operating cash flows before movement in working capital 
165.2 
180.7 
Changes in working capital: 
 
 
(Increase)/decrease in inventories 
(63.5) 
18.0 
Decrease in receivables 
28.6 
48.9 
Increase in payables 
73.7 
26.8 
Decrease/(increase) in carbon assets 
11.1 
(11.8) 
Decrease/(increase) in ROC and LEC assets 
12.5 
(85.6) 
Total cash released from working capital 
62.4 
(3.7) 
Defined benefit pension scheme contributions 
(14.5) 
(11.0) 
Cash generated from operations 
213.1 
166.0 
(1) 
During 2016 we closed out a number of in-the-money forward foreign currency purchase contracts. As these contracts were designated into hedge 
accounting relationships under IAS 39, the benefit is being recognised in the income statement in the period the hedged transaction occurs.  
13. Acquisitions 
Accounting policy 
Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are recognised at the point the Group obtains control of the target (the acquisition 
date). The consideration transferred and the assets and liabilities acquired are measured at their fair value on the acquisition date. 
The assets and liabilities acquired are recognised in the consolidated balance sheet and the profits of the acquired business are 
recognised in the consolidated income statement from the acquisition date. Acquisition-related costs are recognised in the 
income statement in the period the acquisition occurs. Goodwill is measured as the excess of the fair value of the consideration 
transferred over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired. 
Acquisitions in the financial year 
The transactions in this section occurred in the year ended 31 December 2016 and are reflected in the consolidated financial 
statements. 
Acquisition of four OCGT development projects 
On 6 December 2016 the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Progress Power Limited (PPL), Hirwaun Power 
Limited (HPL), Millbrook Power Limited (MPL) and Abergelli Power Limited (APL). PPL, HPL, MPL and APL each hold a 
proposed development option, on land located in England and Wales, for a 299MW Open Cycle Gas Turbine (OCGT) project. 
Both PPL and HPL have obtained Development Consent Orders for their sites. The acquisitions represent diversification of our 
generation capability in response to the changing energy requirements of the UK. 
Initial consideration of £18.6 million was settled in cash on 3 January 2017, with the amount held as a liability in the balance 
sheet at 31 December 2016. The final purchase price depends upon future clearing prices in T-4 capacity market auctions from 
2016-2020. The range of possible outcomes being zero further consideration if the capacity market clearing price does not 
exceed £28/KW in these auctions, with a maximum contingent consideration payable of £72 million, based on a clearing price 
of £75/KW. The fair value of the contingent consideration at 31 December 2016 was assessed at £3.8 million based on a 
projection of likely future capacity market clearing prices, discounted to present value at a risk free rate of 2%. 
The provisional amounts recognised in respect of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the acquisition of the 
four companies, and measured at fair value, are set out in the table below: 
 
 
PPL 
HPL 
MPL 
APL 
Total 
 
£m 
£m 
£m 
£m 
£m 
Financial assets 
2.9 
3.0 
– 
– 
5.9 
Property, plant and equipment 
0.4 
0.6 
0.2 
0.2 
1.4 
Financial liabilities 
(2.9) 
(3.0) 
– 
– 
(5.9) 
Intangible development asset 
8.9 
8.7 
1.7 
1.7 
21.0 
Total identifiable net assets 
9.3 
9.3 
1.9 
1.9 
22.4 
Goodwill 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
Fair value of consideration payable 
9.3 
9.3 
1.9 
1.9 
22.4 
Comprised of: 
 
 
 
 
 
Initial consideration payable on 3 January 2017 in cash 
7.4 
7.4 
1.9 
1.9 
18.6 
Fair value of contingent consideration 
1.9 
1.9 
– 
– 
3.8 
The intangible development assets identified as part of the acquisitions represent the value of planning and consent obtained for 
each site. No cash or cash equivalents were acquired in the transaction, therefore the net cash outflow on acquisition was £18.6 
million. 
The four acquired companies did not trade in the period between the acquisition date and the balance sheet, and no further costs 
were incurred. Accordingly, the consolidated income statement includes no revenue or EBITDA in respect of the acquired 
companies. Transaction costs of £0.7 million were recognised as an expense in the period. 
Acquisitions after the balance sheet date but before the financial statements were approved 
The following disclosures relate to acquisitions completed between 1 January and 15 February 2017. 
 
Acquisition of Opus Energy Group Limited 
On 6 December 2016, the Group announced the proposed acquisition of Opus Energy Group Limited (Opus Energy) for a 
consideration of £340 million, plus interest calculated on the amount of Opus Energy's net assets from 31 March 2016 to the 
acquisition completion date. 
Opus Energy is a well-established energy retail business serving business customers in the Small and Medium-sized Enterprises 
(SME) market. The transaction represents a diversification of the Group's retail offering, strengthening our presence in the SME 
market, and provides a range of strategic and financial benefits. Opus Energy is expected to contribute positively to earnings and 
cash flow immediately following the acquisition and the combination provides a robust platform for future growth. 
The transaction was approved by shareholders on 8 February 2017 and subsequently completed on 10 February 2017, The 
Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital on this date. 
Total consideration paid in cash, including interest as described above, amounted to £367 million. No deferred or contingent 
consideration is payable. The acquisition was funded by a combination of existing cash reserves and a new £375 million loan 
facility which was partially drawn on 10 February 2017.  
Given the short period of time between the transaction completion date and the approval of these financial statements, the initial 
accounting for the business combination is not complete. The table below provides the approximate acquisition date fair values 
of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the transaction, based on the most recently available management information. 
These figures, including the indicative goodwill, are provisional. 
 
 
Total £m 
Financial assets 
169.9 
Property, plant and equipment 
5.6 
Financial liabilities 
(130.3) 
Total identifiable net assets 
45.2 
Goodwill 
322.1 
Fair value of consideration payable 
367.3 
The provisional goodwill reflects the economic and strategic benefits described above. A full review and finalisation of 
identifiable intangible assets acquired will be completed before the initial accounting for the transaction is completed. 
Accordingly, the amount of goodwill recognised in the financial statements may be lower than indicated above.  
The provisional financial assets acquired include £170 million of receivables, the majority of which reflect trade receivables for 
energy supplied to customers measured at cost. By virtue of their short tenor, the contractual amounts receivable and the fair 
value of these receivables are considered to be the same. A provision for doubtful debts of £3 million is included within the 
values above and reflects the best estimate of the contractual cash flows not expected to be recovered. 
As the transaction completed after the balance sheet date, there are no amounts included in these financial statements in respect 
of the transaction other than transaction costs of £1.6 million incurred before 31 December 2016, which have been recognised as 
an expense in Operating and administrative costs in the income statement. 
 
GLOSSARY 
Advantaged fuels 
Fuel that gives a price advantage against standard bituminous coals. Such fuels include pond fines, off-specification coal and 
petcoke. 
Ancillary services 
Services provided to national grid used for balancing supply and demand or maintaining secure electricity supplies within 
acceptable limits, for example Black Start contracts. They are described in Connection Condition 8 of the Grid Code. 
Availability 
Average percentage of time the units were available for generation. 
Average achieved price 
Power revenues divided by volume of net sales (includes imbalance charges). 
Balancing mechanism 
The sub-set of the market through which the system operator can call upon additional generation/consumption or reduce 
generation/ consumption through market participants’ bids and offers, in order to balance the system minute-by-minute. 
Bark spread 
The difference between the power price and the cost of biomass, net of renewable support. 
Carbon price support mechanism (or carbon price floor or carbon tax) 
A tax upon fossil fuels (including coal) used to generate electricity. It is charged as a levy on coal delivered to the power station. 
Contracts for difference (CfD) 
A mechanism to support investment in low-carbon electricity generation. The CfD works by stabilising revenues for generators 
at a fixed price level known as the “strike price”. Generators will receive revenue from selling their electricity into the market as 
usual. However, when the market reference price is below the strike price they will also receive a top-up payment from suppliers 
for the additional amount. Conversely if the reference price is above the strike price, the generator must pay back the difference. 
Dark green spread 
The difference between the power price and the cost of coal and carbon, including CO2 allowances under the EU Emissions 
Trading Scheme and the UK Carbon Price Support (CPS) Mechanism. 
Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy (BEIS) 
The government department bringing together the responsibilities for business, industrial strategy, science, innovation, energy 
and climate change (formerly DECC). 
EBITDA 
Profit before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and unrealised gains and losses on derivative contracts. 
Annual report and accounts 2016 
EU ETS 
The EU Emissions Trading System is a mechanism introduced across the EU to reduce emissions of CO2; the scheme is capable 
of being extended to cover all greenhouse gas emissions. 
Feed-in tariff 
A long-term contract set at a fixed level where variable payments are made to ensure the generator receives an agreed tariff. The 
feed-in tariff payment would be made in addition to the generator’s revenues from selling in the market. 
Forced outage 
Any reduction in plant availability, excluding planned outages. 
Forced outage rate 
The capacity which is not available due to forced outages or restrictions expressed as a percentage of the maximum theoretical 
capacity, less planned outage capacity. 
Grid charges 
Includes transmission network use of system charges (TNUoS), balancing services use of system charges (BSUoS) and 
distribution use of system charges (DUoS). 
IFRSs 
International Financial Reporting Standards. 
LECs 
Levy Exemption Certificates. Evidence of CCL exempt electricity supplies generated from qualifying renewable sources. 
Levy control framework 
A control framework for BEIS (formerly DECC) levy-funded spending intended to make sure that BEIS achieves its fuel 
poverty, energy and climate change goals in a way that is consistent with economic recovery and minimising the impact on 
consumer bills. 
Load factor 
Net sent out generation as a percentage of maximum sales. 
Lost time injury rate (LTIR) 
The frequency rate is calculated on the following basis: lost time injuries/hours worked x 100,000. Lost time injuries are defined 
as occurrences where the injured party is absent from work for more than 24 hours. 
Net balancing mechanism 
Net volumes attributable to accepted bids and offers in the balancing mechanism. 
Net cash/(debt) 
Comprises cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments less overdrafts and borrowings net of deferred finance costs. 
Net sales 
The aggregate of net volumes attributable to bilateral contracts, power exchange trades and net balancing mechanism. 
Net sales at notional balancing point (NBP) 
Net sales at NBP is the volume of power sold to customers by our Retail business expressed at the NBP. The NBP reflects the 
volume of power sold before deduction of transmission and distribution losses incurred in transporting this power from the grid 
to the customer meter. 
Planned outage 
A period during which scheduled maintenance is executed according to the plan set at the outset of the year. 
Planned outage rate 
The capacity not available due to planned outages expressed as a percentage of the maximum theoretical capacity. 
Power exchange trades 
Power sales or purchases transacted on the APX UK power trading platform. 
ROCs 
A Renewables Obligation Certificate (“ROC”) is a certificate issued to an accredited generator for electricity generated from 
eligible renewable sources. The Renewables Obligation (RO) is currently the main support scheme for renewable electricity 
projects in the UK. 
Summer 
The calendar months April to September. 
System operator 
National Grid Electricity Transmission. Responsible for the coordination of electricity flows onto and over the transmission 
system, balancing generation supply and user demand. 
Total recordable injury rate (TRIR) 
The frequency rate is calculated on the following basis: (lost time injuries + worse than first aid injuries)/hours worked x 
100,000. 
UK NAP 
UK National Allocation Plan. 
Underlying financial measures 
We report financial measures described as “underlying” such as profit after tax and earnings per share. Underlying measures are 
adjusted to exclude the impact of gains and losses on derivative contracts and the associated tax. 
Winter 
The calendar months October to March. 
