 
 
 
The Abergelli Power Gas Fired Generating Station 
Order 
 
6.4.0 Environmental Statement Non-Technical 
Summary 
 
Planning Act 2008 
The Infrastructure Planning  
(Applications: Prescribed Forms and Procedure) Regulations 2009 
 
PINS Reference Number:  
 
EN010069 
Document Reference: 
 
 
6.4.0 
Regulation Number: 
5(2)(a) & Infrastructure Planning 
(Environmental Impact Assessment) 
Regulations 2009 
Author: 
 
 
 
 
AECOM 
 
Revision 
 
Date  
 
Description  
 
0 
 
 
May 2018  
 
Submission Version  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ES Non-Technical Summary 
Abergelli Power Project 
ii 
Contents 
Contents .................................................................................................................... ii 
List of Figures ......................................................................................................... iv 
Abbreviations ........................................................................................................... v 
Definitions ............................................................................................................... vii 
1 
Introduction ...................................................................................................... 1 
 
Overview ................................................................................................. 1 
 
Purpose of this Document ....................................................................... 3 
 
The Applicant .......................................................................................... 3 
 
Need for the Project ................................................................................ 4 
 
Planning Policy Context .......................................................................... 4 
2 
The Project ....................................................................................................... 6 
 
Site and Surroundings ............................................................................. 6 
 
Generating Equipment Technology ......................................................... 6 
 
Alternatives ............................................................................................. 8 
 
Mitigation ................................................................................................. 9 
3 
Assessment Methodology ............................................................................ 10 
 
Assessment of Receptors ..................................................................... 10 
 
Measurement of Environmental Impacts ............................................... 11 
 
Measurement of Environmental Effects ................................................. 12 
4 
Assessment Findings .................................................................................... 13 
 
Introduction ........................................................................................... 13 
 
Air Quality .............................................................................................. 13 
 
Noise and Vibration ............................................................................... 15 
 
Ecology ................................................................................................. 16 
 
Water Quality and Resources ............................................................... 19 
 
Geology, Ground Conditions, and Hydrogeology .................................. 20 
 
Landscape and Visual Effects ............................................................... 21 
 
Traffic, Transport, and Access .............................................................. 25 
 
Historic Environment ............................................................................. 27 
 
Socio-Economics................................................................................... 29 
 
Other Effects Considered ...................................................................... 31 
5 
Cumulative Effects ........................................................................................ 35 
 
Overview ............................................................................................... 35 
 
Intra-Project effects on Shared Receptors ............................................ 35 
 
Inter-Project Cumulative Effects ............................................................ 36 
ES Non-Technical Summary 
Abergelli Power Project 
iii 
6 
Overall Conclusions ...................................................................................... 42 
7 
References ..................................................................................................... 43 
 
 
 
ES Non-Technical Summary 
Abergelli Power Project 
iv 
List of Figures 
 
Figure NTS-1: Project Site Location Plan 
Figure NTS-2: Project Site Layout 
Figure NTS-3: Modelled Air Quality Receptors 
Figure NTS-4: Noise Sensitive Receptors 
Figure NTS-5: Designated Ecological Sites 
Figure NTS-6: Water Quality and Resources Receptors 
Figure NTS-7: Geology, Ground Conditions, and Hydrogeology Receptors 
Figure NTS-8: Zone of Theoretical Visibility 
Figure NTS-9: Traffic Links 
Figure NTS-10: Historic Assets 
 
 
ES Non-Technical Summary 
Abergelli Power Project 
v 
Abbreviations 
Abbreviation 
Description 
AGI 
Above Ground Installation 
AONB 
Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty 
APL 
Abergelli Power Limited 
BOP 
Balance of Plant 
BS 
British Standard 
CAA 
Civil Aviation Authority 
CCS 
City and County of Swansea 
CEMP 
Construction Environmental Management Plan 
CHP 
Combined Heat & Power 
CO2 
Carbon Dioxide 
CSTP 
Construction Staff Travel Plan 
CTMP 
Construction Traffic Management Plan 
dB 
Decibel, Unit of Sound Intensity 
DCO 
Development Consent Order 
EIA 
Environmental Impact Assessment 
EMF 
Electromagnetic Fields 
ES 
Environmental Statement 
EU 
European Union 
FCA 
Flood Consequences Assessment 
GIS 
Gas Insulated Substation 
GLVIA 
Guidelines for Landscape and Visual Impact Assessment 
Ha 
Hectare, Unit of Area 
HGV 
Heavy Goods Vehicle 
km 
Kilometre, Unit of Length 
kV 
Kilovolt, Unit of Electric Potential 
LPA 
Local Planning Authority 
LVIA 
Landscape and Visual Impact Assessment 
m 
Metre, Unit of Length 
m/s 
Metres per second, Unit of Speed  
MOC 
Minimum Offtake Connection 
MW (or MWe) 
Megawatts, Unit of Electricity 
NETS 
National Electricity Transmission System 
NGET 
National Grid Electricity Transmission plc. 
NO2 
Nitrogen Dioxide 
ES Non-Technical Summary 
Abergelli Power Project 
vi 
Abbreviation 
Description 
NOx 
Nitrogen Oxides (assuming as nitrogen dioxide) 
NPS 
National Policy Statement 
NRW 
Natural Resources Wales 
NSIP 
Nationally Significant Infrastructure Project 
NSR 
Noise Sensitive Receptor 
NTS 
Non-Technical Summary 
OCGT 
Open Cycle Gas Turbine 
PA 2008 
Planning Act 2008 
PEIR 
Preliminary Environmental Information Report 
PINS 
Planning Inspectorate 
PTF 
Pig Trap Facility 
SAC 
Special Area of Conservation 
SINC 
Site of Importance for Nature Conservation  
SoS 
Secretary of State 
SPA 
Special Protection Area 
SSSI 
Site of Special Scientific Interest 
WFD 
Water Framework Directive 
ZoI 
Zone of Influence 
ZTV 
Zone of Theoretical Visibility 
 
 
 
ES Non-Technical Summary 
Abergelli Power Project 
vii 
Definitions 
 
 
2014 PEIR: The 2014 PEIR summarising the preliminary findings of the EIA 
prepared at the time of the Phase 1 consultation. 
 
2018 PEIR: The 2018 PEIR summarising the preliminary findings of the EIA 
prepared at the time of the Phase 2 consultation. 
 
Above Ground Installation: The Above Ground Installation incorporates the 
minimum offtake connection (MOC) facility, which would be owned by National 
Grid Gas Plc, and a Pipeline Inspection Gauge (PIG) Trap Facility (PTF), 
owned by Abergelli Power Limited. It forms part of the Gas Connection. 
 
Access Road to the Generating Equipment Site - from the B4489 which lies to 
the west, formed by upgrading an existing access road between the B4489 
junction and the Substation and constructing a new section of road from the 
Substation to the Generating Equipment Site. 
 
Additional Mitigation: Further measures proposed by APL in order to reduce 
adverse effects or to secure anticipated outcomes.  Additional mitigation is 
described in the assessment section of the ES and this ES NTS for the relevant 
topic area.  
 
Agricultural Land Classification: The ALC provides a method for assessing 
the quality of agricultural land to enable informed choices to be made about its 
future use within the planning system, in accordance with current guidelines 
(former Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food MAFF, 1988).   
 
Amenity: The preferable features of a location which contribute to its overall 
character and the enjoyment of residents or visitors. 
 
Ancient Woodland: Ancient woodland is defined as an area that has been 
wooded continuously since at least 1600 AD.  Ancient Woodland is divided into 
ancient semi-natural woodland and plantations on ancient woodland sites.  
Both types of stand are classed as ancient woods.   
 
APFP Regulations: Infrastructure Planning (Applications: Prescribed Forms 
and Procedures) Regulations 2009  (as amended) 
 
The Applicant: Abergelli Power Ltd (APL), the company responsible for the 
application for development consent for the Project. 
 
Associated Development: Associated Development is defined in the Planning 
Act 2008.  No Associated Development is proposed as part of the DCO 
Application. 
 
Balance of Plant: All infrastructure required to support the Gas Turbine 
Generator within the Generating Equipment Site and includes: Stack; external 
fin-fan cooler(s); control room / office / workshop building; telemetry apparatus; 
raw/ fire / demineralised water tanks; emergency generator including fuel 
storage tank; gas pipeline and telemetry cabling; cathodic protection 
test/transformer compound; gas receiving station. 
ES Non-Technical Summary 
Abergelli Power Project 
viii 
 
Baseline: Environmental conditions at specific periods of time, present on, or 
near a site, against which future changes may be measured or predicted. 
 
Best Available Technique:  The most effective and advanced stage in the 
development of activities and their methods of operation which indicates the 
practical suitability of particular techniques for providing the basis for emission 
limit values and other permit conditions designed to prevent and, where that is 
not practicable, to reduce emissions and the impact on the environment as a 
whole.  
 
British Standard: The display of a British Standard number shows that the 
manufacturer claims to have made the product in accordance with British 
Standard. A standard is a published document that contains a technical 
specification or other precise criteria designed to be used consistently as a rule 
or definition. Standards are designed for voluntary use and do not impose any 
regulations. However, laws and regulations may refer to certain standards and 
make compliance with them compulsory. Sometimes BS will be accompanied 
by the letters EN and/or ISO. These mean that the standard was developed as 
a European (EN) or International (ISO) standard and then adopted by the UK 
as a British Standard.   
 
Combined Cycle Gas Turbine: Gas plant technology system comprising Gas 
Turbine(s) fuelled by natural gas, a Heat Recovery Steam Generator(s) utilising 
heat from the Gas Turbine exhaust gases, and a steam turbine plant with 
associated condensing system.  
 
Combined Heat and Power: A cogeneration power station capable of 
supplying power to the NETS and also heat to local heat users (such as 
industry or leisure) through a direct connection to waste heat/steam produced 
as part of the combustion process.  
 
Conservation Area: An area of special architectural or historical importance 
that is protected by statutory designation. 
 
Construction Environmental Management Plan: Strategic document setting 
out best practice methods to minimise environmental impacts during 
construction.  An outline of the CEMP is included in Appendix 3.1 of the ES. 
 
Construction Staff Travel Plan:  Strategic 
document 
that 
outlines 
the 
management of staff movements during the various stages of the construction 
process.  An outline CSTP is included in Appendix 3.4b of the ES. 
 
Construction Traffic Management Plan:  Strategic document that outlines the 
management of material movements and interactions with the surrounding road 
network during the various stages of the construction process.  An outline 
CTMP is included in Appendix 3.4a of the ES. 
 
Controlled waters: Inland freshwaters and groundwater. 
 
Cumulative effects: The summation of effects caused by both for intra-project 
(where a single receptor is affected by multiple aspects of a project, worsening 
the effect) and inter-project effects (where effects are exacerbated due to other 
reasonably foreseeable projects either in construction, consented or yet to be 
built).  
ES Non-Technical Summary 
Abergelli Power Project 
ix 
 
Decommissioning:  Decommissioning will comprise the removal of all above 
ground Generating Equipment items and the ground dressed with suitable 
topsoils and reseeded once operation has ceased. This process will take 
approximately 22 months. It is likely that some underground structures, 
including the Pipeline part of the Gas Connection will be capped and left in situ 
to avoid any adverse environmental effects associated with their removal. 
 
Desk Based Assessment:  Research based primarily on database and 
internet data gathering methods. 
 
Development Consent Order: A DCO is made by the SoS pursuant to the 
Planning Act 2008 (PA 2008) to authorise an NSIP.  
 
Development Consent Order Application: The Application for a DCO made 
to the SoS under section 37 of the PA 2008 in respect of the Project, required 
pursuant to section 31 of the PA 2008 because the Project constitutes an NSIP 
under section 14(1)(a) and section 15 of the PA 2008 by virtue of being an 
onshore generating station in England and Wales of 50 MW capacity or more. 
 
Drax Group plc: Drax is one of the UK’s largest energy producers and 
acquired APL from Watt Power Limited in 2016.  
 
Ecological Mitigation Area: An area has been set aside within the Project Site 
Boundary for ecological mitigation. 
 
Effect: The consequence of an impact on the environment, multiplied by the 
sensitivity of the receptor. 
 
EIA Regulations: For the Project the relevant EIA regulations are the 
Infrastructure Planning (Environmental Impact Assessment) Regulations 2009 
as amended, and this term is used to mean the 2009 regulations (as amended). 
 
Electrical Connection: An underground electrical cable to export power from 
the Generating Equipment to the National Grid Electricity Transmission System 
(NETS). 
 
Electromagnetic Field: A magnetic field is the physical field within which 
magnetic influence of electric currents and magnetic materials extends. 
 
Embedded Mitigation: Mitigation which is either implicit in the design of the 
Project or its construction and operation through standard control measures 
routinely used, such as working within best practice guidance during 
construction. 
 
Emission: A material that is expelled or released to the environment.  Usually 
applied to gaseous or odorous discharges to the atmosphere. 
 
Environmental Impact Assessment: The assessment of the likely significant 
environmental effects of the Project. Undertaken in accordance with the EIA 
Regulations. 
 
Environmental Permit: A permit (pursuant to the Environmental Permitting 
(England and Wales) Regulations 2016) allows the operator of an installation to 
carry on various activities which may have an impact on the environment and 
human health and stipulates what restrictions there are to minimise damage to 
ES Non-Technical Summary 
Abergelli Power Project 
x 
the environment and human health. The permit is issued and regulated by 
NRW.  
 
Environmental Statement Non-Technical Summary: (This document).  A 
report presenting a non-technical summary of the information provided in the 
ES.  This ES NTS for the Project is included with the DCO application. 
 
Environmental Statement: A statement that includes such of the information 
referred to in Part 1 of Schedule 4 of the EIA Regulations as is reasonably 
required to assess the environmental effects of the Project. It must include at 
least the information referred to in Part 2 of Schedule 4 of the EIA Regulations. 
The ES for the Project is included with the DCO application as Document 
Reference 6.1.  
 
Examining Authority: The Inspector or Panel of Inspectors responsible for 
conducting the examination of, and making a recommendation to the SoS on, 
the DCO Application.  
 
Felindre Gas Compressor Station: Gas compressor facility located in close 
proximity to the Project Site and adjacent to the Substation.  
 
Felindre Park and Share: Free car parking facility, located just off Junction 46 
of the M4. 
 
Felindre Water Treatment Works: Water treatment facility currently located to 
the northwest of the Project Site.  
 
Frequency (sound): Frequency (or pitch) of sound measured in units of Hertz. 
1 Hertz (Hz) = 1 cycle/second.   
 
Gas Connection: A new Above Ground Installation (AGI) and underground 
Gas Pipeline.  
 
Gas Insulated Substation: A gas insulated substation (GIS) is a high voltage 
substation in which the major structures are contained in a sealed environment 
with sulphur hexafluoride gas as the insulating medium 
 
Gas Pipeline: The underground gas pipeline connection from the National Gas 
Transmission System, to the Generating Equipment Site.  
 
Gas Turbine Generator: One OCGT generator (as proposed in the Power 
Generation Plant) which utilises the combustion of gas and air to generate hot 
gases that are routed across turbine blades, which generate rotational forces 
that turn an electrical generator. The exhaust gases are discharged directly to a 
single stack without providing heat for a secondary steam cycle.  The Gas 
Turbine Generator forms part of the Generating Equipment and is located 
within the Generating Equipment Site.   
 
Generating Equipment Site: The site where the Generating Equipment is 
located.   
 
Generating Equipment: Gas Turbine Generator and Balance of Plant which 
are located on the Generating Equipment Site.  
 
Groundwater:  Water occurring in the ground which can be reasonably 
attributed to relatively geologically recent recharge and which can be 
ES Non-Technical Summary 
Abergelli Power Project 
xi 
reasonably considered to be wholesome (potable) unless it has been 
contaminated (altered) by anthropogenic activity. 
 
Habitat: The environment in which populations or individual species live or 
grow. 
 
Heavy goods vehicle: A commercial road vehicle that is of a construction 
primarily suited for the carriage of goods or burden of any kind and designed or 
adapted to have a maximum weight exceeding 3,500 kilograms when in normal 
use and travelling on a road laden.  
 
Hectare: A unit of area (10,000 m² / 2.471 acres). 
 
Historic environment: All aspects of the environment resulting from the 
interaction between people and places through time including all surviving 
physical remains of past human activity, whether visible, buried or submerged, 
and landscaped, planted or managed flora. Those elements of the historic 
environment that hold significance are called heritage assets.   
 
Historic Parks and Gardens: Parks, gardens and other associated features 
deemed to be of historical importance or significance and placed on Historic 
England’s ‘Register of Historic Parks and Gardens’.  
 
Impact: A physical or measurable change to the environment. 
 
Kilometre: Measurement of distance (1000 metres). 
 
Kilovolt: Measurement of the amount of electric potential energy equal to 1000 
Volts.  
 
LANDMAP: LANDMAP is an all-Wales landscape resource where landscape 
characteristics, qualities and influences on the landscape are recorded and 
evaluated. 
 
Landscape and Ecology Mitigation Plan: Holistic figure(s) illustrating high 
level mitigation for the Project included in ES Figure 3.6. 
 
Landscape and Ecology Mitigation Strategy: Strategy document highlighting 
areas for mitigation and enhancement of the landscape and biodiversity value 
of the Project Site.  An outline Landscape and Ecology Mitigation Strategy for 
the Project is included in ES Appendix 3.4.  
 
Landscape and Visual Impact Assessment: A tool used to identify and 
assess the likely significant effects of change resulting from development both 
on the landscape as an environmental resource in its own right and on people’s 
views and visual amenity.  
 
Landscape character: The distinct and recognisable pattern of elements that 
occur consistently in a particular type of landscape, and how this is perceived 
by people. It reflects particular combinations of geology, landform, soils, 
vegetation, land use and human settlement. 
 
Laydown Area: A temporary construction compound for the storage of 
materials, plant and equipment as well as containing site accommodation and 
welfare facilities, temporary car parking and temporary fencing.  
ES Non-Technical Summary 
Abergelli Power Project 
xii 
 
Listed building: A list of buildings of special architectural or historic interest 
compiled by the Secretary of State for the guidance of local planning authorities 
in the exercise of their planning functions under the Planning (Listed Buildings 
and Conservation Areas) Act 1990 and the Town and Country Planning Act 
1990. Buildings are graded as follows: Grade I – Buildings of exceptional 
interest; Grade II* - Particularly important buildings of more than special 
interest; and Grade II – Buildings of special interest. 
 
Magnitude: A combination of the scale, extent and duration of an impact.  
 
Maintenance Compound: An area within the Laydown Area that will be 
retained permanently. 
 
Metre: Measurement of length. 
 
Ministry of Defence: Department responsible for implementing the defence 
policy set by the UK Government. 
 
Mitigation: Action proposed to avoid, prevent, reduce and where possible 
offset adverse effects arising from the whole or specific elements of a 
development.   
 
National Electricity Transmission System: A high-voltage electric power 
transmission network operated by the National Grid Electricity Transmission.  
 
National Grid Electricity Transmission: National Grid Electricity Transmission 
plc’s (NGET) principal operations are the ownership and operation of regulated 
electricity infrastructure networks in the UK, including the National Electricity 
Transmission System.  
 
National Park: A National Park is an area designated for its special landscape 
rich in character and distinctiveness, wildlife history and heritage. 
 
National Policy Statement: Overarching policy designated under the PA 2008 
concerning the planning and consenting of NSIPs in England and Wales.  
 
Nationally Significant Infrastructure Project: The Power Generation Plant 
constitutes a Nationally Significant Infrastructure Project (NSIP) by virtue of 
s.14(1)(a) and s.15 of the Planning Act 2008 (PA 2008) which include within the 
definition of a NSIP any onshore generating station in England or Wales of 50 
MWe capacity or more. 
 
National Transmission System: The National Transmission System is the 
high pressure gas network throughout the United Kingdom which transports 
gas from the entry terminals to gas distribution networks, or directly to power 
stations and other large industrial users.  
 
Oil Pipeline: A decommissioned underground oil pipeline that crosses the 
Project Site, directly south of the Generating Equipment Site.  
 
Order Limits: The limits shown on the Works Plans within which the 
development authorised by the DCO (the Power Generation Plant) may be 
carried out. 
 
Outline Drainage Strategy: A document outlining the approach to onsite 
surface water and foul water drainage. An Outline Drainage Strategy is for the 
ES Non-Technical Summary 
Abergelli Power Project 
xiii 
Project is included as Appendix E to the Flood Consequences Assessment (ES 
Appendix 9.1).  
 
Outline Surface Water Management Plan: A management plan detailing 
construction and operation practices to manage surface water. A Surface Water 
Management Plan for the Project is outlined in the CEMP (ES Appendix 3.1).  
 
Particulate matter: Solid particles or liquid droplets suspended or carried in the 
air.   
 
Peaking Plant: Peaking Plants are used to provide back up or additional 
electricity supply to the NETS, for example, at times when there is a stress 
event on the system.  
 
Pipeline Inspection Gauge: A device used to perform various maintenance 
operations on a pipeline. 
 
Planning Act 2008: UK legislation governing applications for Development 
Consent, under which an Examining Authority is appointed to examine 
applications and make recommendations for a decision by the relevant 
Secretary of State (the Secretary of State for Business, Energy and Industrial 
Strategy in the case of energy NSIP applications). 
 
The Planning Inspectorate: The government agency responsible for pre-
application advice and administrative support during Examination of 
applications for Development Consent Orders. 
 
Power Generation Plant: Generating Equipment, Access Road, Laydown 
Area, Maintenance Compound, Ecological Mitigation Area, permanent parking 
and drainage.  
 
Project: The Power Generation Plant, Gas Connection and Electrical 
Connection.  
 
Project Site: The entire area covered by or required in order to deliver the 
Project. The Project Site corresponds to the Order Land. 
 
Project Site Boundary: The perimeter of the Project Site. 
 
Public Right of Way: An easement granted or reserved for the public over the 
surface of the land without impediment. Public Rights of Way include public 
footpaths, bridleways and byways open to all traffic as well as Restricted 
Byways.   
 
Ramsar: A wetland site designated of international importance under the 
Ramsar Convention. 
 
Receptor: A component of the natural, created, or built environment such as a 
human being, water, air, a building, or a plant that has the potential to be 
affected by the Project. 
 
Residual effect: Those effects of a development that remain following the 
implementation of mitigation measures.  
 
Rochdale Envelope: The Rochdale cases provide the basis upon which a 
project can be described by a series of maximum and minimum extents (or 
parameters). These parameters form an ‘envelope’ within which the detailed 
ES Non-Technical Summary 
Abergelli Power Project 
xiv 
design of the Project can be progressed.  Where the Rochdale Envelope is 
used, the parameters allow an assessment of the "worst case" environmental 
effects in the ES. The Rochdale Envelope approach has been used for the 
Project and the relevant parameters assessed in the EIA for the Project.  
 
Scheduled Monument: A building included in the Schedule of Monuments 
compiled under Section 1 of the Ancient Monuments, and Archaeological Area 
Act 1979. Scheduled Monuments have statutory protection under this Act 
(Section 2) and an application for Scheduled Monument Consent must be 
made to Cadw if work to a Scheduled Monument is proposed.   
 
Scoping Opinion: The EIA Scoping Opinion for the Project issued by the 
Secretary of State dated August 2014. 
 
Scrub: Vegetation consisting of stunted trees, bushes and other plants. 
 
Secondary A Aquifer: Permeable layers capable of supporting water supplies 
at a local rather than strategic scale, and in some cases, forming an important 
source of base flow to rivers.   
 
Secretary of State: The decision maker for an NSIP application. 
 
Sensitivity: A term applied to specific receptors, combining judgements of the 
susceptibility of the receptor to the specific type of change or development 
proposed and the value related to that receptor. 
 
Site of Importance for Nature Conservation: Also known as Local Wildlife 
Sites, SINCs are designated to raise awareness of the importance for wildlife 
particularly with regard to planning and land management decision making.  
 
Site of Special Scientific Interest: A site statutorily notified under the Wildlife 
and Countryside Act 1981 (as amended) as being of special nature 
conservation or geological interest. SSSIs include wildlife habitats, geological 
features and landforms.  
 
Special Area of Conservation: Areas of protected habitats and species as 
defined in the European Union’s Habitats Directive (92/43/EEC). 
 
Special Protection Area: Classified for rare and vulnerable birds, and for 
regularly occurring migratory species, as defined in the EC Birds Directive 
(2009/147/EC). 
 
Species: A group of organisms that seldom or never interbreed with individuals 
in other such groups, under natural conditions; most species are made up of 
subspecies or populations.   
 
Stack: The structure by which the exhaust gases and waste heat are emitted to 
the atmosphere. The height of the structure would be between 35 m – 45 m 
and would contain a silencer to reduce noise emissions. The exhaust gases 
would be subject to emissions control abatement.  
 
Substation: The Swansea North Substation. 
 
Transport Assessment: A quantitative assessment of the transport effects of 
construction, decommissioning and operational phases of the Project within ES 
Chapter 12: Traffic, Transport and Access.  
ES Non-Technical Summary 
Abergelli Power Project 
xv 
 
Topography: The natural or artificial features, level and surface form of the 
ground surface. 
 
Visual amenity: The value of a particular area or view in terms of what is seen. 
 
Visual effect: Change in the appearance of the landscape from available 
viewpoints as a result of development.  
 
Visual receptors: Individuals and/or defined groups of people who have the 
potential to be affected by the visual appearance of a development. 
 
Water Main: An underground water pipeline that crosses the Project Site, 
directly south of the Generating Equipment Site. 
 
Zone of Theoretical Visibility: Areas from which a specified element of a 
development may be visible. Hence, the development would not be visible 
beyond the ZTV. 
 
ES Non-Technical Summary 
Abergelli Power Project 
1 
1 
Introduction 
 
Overview  
 
Abergelli Power Ltd (APL) is proposing to build a 299 MegaWatt (MW) power 
station near Swansea, in South Wales, that will aid electricity production 
when there is a surge in demand for electricity, also known as “peak 
demand.”  The proposed Abergelli Power Project (hereafter referred to as 
the ‘the Project’) will be made up of an Open Cycle Gas Turbine (OCGT), 
and will be located approximately 2 km north of Junction 46 of the M4, within 
the administrative boundary of the City and County of Swansea Council 
(CCS) (Figure NTS-1). 
 
This document is the Non-Technical Summary (NTS) of the Environmental 
Statement (ES) (ES NTS) for the Project.  It has been prepared by AECOM 
on behalf of APL, the Applicant. 
 
The Project will involve the combustion of gas to generate electricity, and 
would comprise three key elements: 
1.) 
A new Power Generation Plant, in the form of an Open Cycle Gas 
Turbine (Figure NTS-2). It will have an electrical output of up to 299 
MW.  
The Power Generation Plant will include:  
- 
Generating Equipment including one Gas Turbine Generator 
with one exhaust gas flue stack; and 
- 
Balance of Plant (BOP), which is all infrastructure required to 
support the Gas Turbine Generator (together referred to as the 
'Generating Equipment') which are located within the 'Generating 
Equipment Site'; 
- 
An Access Road to the Project Site from the B4489 which lies to 
the west, formed by upgrading an existing access road between 
the B4489 junction and the Swansea North Substation (the 
Substation) and constructing a new section of Access Road from 
the Substation to the Generating Equipment Site; and 
- 
A temporary construction compound for the storage of materials, 
plant and equipment as well as containing site accommodation 
and welfare facilities, temporary car parking and temporary 
fencing (the Laydown Area). A small area within the Laydown 
Area 
will 
be 
retained 
permanently 
(the 
Maintenance 
Compound).  
- 
Ecological Mitigation Area – area for ecological enhancement 
within the Project Site Boundary. 
ES Non-Technical Summary 
Abergelli Power Project 
2 
- 
Permanent parking and drainage to include: a site foul, oily water 
and surface water drainage system. 
2.) 
The Gas Connection will be in the form of a new AGI and 
underground gas connection (the Gas Pipeline). This is to bring 
natural gas to the Generating Equipment from the National Gas 
Transmission System (Figure NTS-2).  
3.) 
The Electrical Connection will be an underground electrical cable to 
export power from the Generating Equipment to the National Grid 
Electricity Transmission System (NETS) (Figure NTS-2). 
 
The 
Power 
Generation 
Plant 
constitutes 
a 
Nationally 
Significant 
Infrastructure Project (NSIP) pursuant to the Planning Act 2008, which 
means that a Development Consent Order (DCO) is required to build, 
operate and maintain it. The DCO Application will be processed by the 
Planning Inspectorate and examined by an Examining Authority appointed 
by the Secretary of State who will make a recommendation on whether the 
DCO should be granted by the Secretary of State for Business, Energy and 
Industrial Strategy (Secretary of State) with whom the final decision lies. The 
ES and this ES NTS have been prepared in accordance with Regulation 2 
and 10 of the Infrastructure Planning (Environmental Impact Assessment) 
Regulations 2009 (the "EIA Regulations"). They present information 
specifically aimed at describing the nature, scale and location of the Project 
and an assessment of any likely significant environmental impacts resulting 
from the Project. 
 
In accordance with Regulation 20 of the EIA Regulations copies of the ES, 
this ES NTS and the Figures may be examined during the pre-examination 
and examination periods at: Swansea Central Library, Clydach Library, 
Gorseinon Library, Morriston Library and Pontarddulais Library 
 
The technical appendices to the ES will only be available electronically at the 
locations listed above and the PINS website. 
 
Copies of the ES and this ES NTS can also be found on the Project website: 
www.abergellipower.co.uk 
 
The Documents can be obtained by writing to Abergelli Power Limited, 49 
York Place, Edinburgh, EH1 3JD. A reasonable copying charge may apply up 
to a maximum of £250 for the full suite of Documents and £10 for an 
electronic copy on CD. Copies of individual Documents are also available on 
request. 
 
 
ES Non-Technical Summary 
Abergelli Power Project 
3 
 
Purpose of this Document 
 
This document is the Non-Technical Summary (NTS) of the Environmental 
Statement (ES).  The ES presents a summary of the findings of an initial 
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA). An EIA provides an assessment of 
the Project’s likely significant environmental effects. The purpose of this 
document is to provide a summary of the ES in non-technical language. The 
main volumes comprising the ES are available separately.  
 
The NTS focuses on discussion of residual effects. These are defined as a 
summary of the environmental impacts likely to occur to a receptor due to 
the Project once mitigation measures have been applied. They have been 
described during Construction and Decommissioning of the Project, and 
during Operation of the Project.  Where likely significant effects have not 
been identified, it can be concluded that residual effects have not been 
identified, and therefore no additional mitigation is required. 
 
The Applicant  
 
The Applicant is APL, an energy development company established for the 
Project and recently acquired by Drax Group plc (“Drax”). 
 
Drax is responsible for generating 6% of the UKs electricity, predominantly 
via Drax power station in Selby.  Drax is one of the UK’s largest energy 
producers and is committed to helping to reduce carbon emissions, 
displacing more coal off the system and providing additional system support 
to plug the gaps created by intermittent renewables and boost security of 
supply. 
 
Further 
details 
on 
the 
companies 
above 
are 
provided 
at 
www.abergellipower.co.uk and www.drax.com. 
Planning Act 2008 
 
The 
Power 
Generation 
Plant 
constitutes 
a 
Nationally 
Significant 
Infrastructure Project (NSIP) pursuant to the Planning Act 2008 (PA 2008) 
(Ref. 1) and therefore requires development consent. This is because it is a 
thermal generating station with an electrical output in excess of 50 MW.  
 
The proposed application for a Development Consent Order (DCO) will seek 
consent for all works required for construction, use, operation and 
maintenance of the Power Generation Plant (including the Access Road and 
the Laydown Area/Maintenance Compound, which are integral to the NSIP).  
ES Non-Technical Summary 
Abergelli Power Project 
4 
 
The Gas Connection and Electrical Connection are considered to be 
Associated Development within the meaning of the Planning Act 2008, and 
not an integral part of the NSIP. As the Project is a generating station in 
Wales below 350 MW, development consent cannot be granted for 
Associated Development in the DCO. However, the Gas Connection and the 
Electrical Connection are considered and assessed in the ES to provide full 
information on the effects of the Project as a whole. 
 
Need for the Project 
 
There is a considerable national need for this type of project, acknowledged 
at all levels of Government policy. National planning policy supports the need 
for new power stations to replace the current ageing coal fired power plants, 
many of which are scheduled to close, and also meet expected increasing 
demand for electricity over the coming decades. 
 
The supply of electricity in the UK relies on the generation of electricity from 
several sources, more traditionally through baseload thermal generation 
plants such as coal, gas and nuclear. These generators all provide power to 
keep the national grid at a steady frequency of 50 Hertz (Hz), essential to the 
smooth operation of electrical equipment throughout the UK.  
 
At present, the total capacity of peaking power plants in the UK is relatively 
small due to the nature of the historic approach to power production in the 
UK. There is a clear and significant requirement for further capacity to meet 
the projected need for reactive/flexible generation in the future, as the 
methods of power generation diversify. 
 
Gas is acknowledged by the Government as having an important role to play 
in our transition to a low-carbon economy, whilst at the same time supporting 
the country’s energy security. In addition, gas peaking plants such as the 
Project would provide back-up to power generation from renewable sources, 
such as solar and wind power, which supply an increasingly important share 
of the country’s electricity demand. Modern gas fired power plants are 
among the most efficient forms of electricity power generation.  
 
Planning Policy Context 
 
The ES and this ES NTS have been prepared with reference to all relevant 
European, national, regional, and local policy.  Details of these are discussed 
in Chapter 2 of the ES.   
 
 
ES Non-Technical Summary 
Abergelli Power Project 
5 
NPS EN-1 and EN-2 
 
National Policy Statements EN-1 and EN-2 provide the overarching national 
level policy framework for consideration of DCO applications for gas fired 
power stations and set out the Government's policies for the assessment of 
DCO applications.  NPS EN-1 and EN-2 have been considered by the 
Applicant in the design and in the assessment of effects reported in the ES. 
Planning Policy Wales 
 
Planning Policy Wales (Ref. 2) sets out the land use planning policies of the 
Welsh Government, by prescribing the government’s policies on various 
planning issues that shape the preparation of development plans. This has 
been considered and addressed in the design of the Project. 
The Wales Spatial Plan (2008) 
 
The Wales Spatial Plan (Ref. 3) was adopted by the Welsh Government in 
2004 and updated in 2008. The Plan notes that natural gas developments 
are providing a major economic boost for Wales, and the development of 
gas-fired power stations has the potential to add to this. 
Local Development Plan 
 
CCS is currently in the process of preparing a new Local Development Plan 
(Ref. 4), which upon adoption will replace the Unitary Development Plans 
UDP as the key planning policy document for CCS up to 2025.           
 
  
 
ES Non-Technical Summary 
Abergelli Power Project 
6 
2 
The Project 
 
Site and Surroundings  
 
The Project Site is located on open agricultural land approximately 2 km 
north of Junction 46 on the M4, approximately 3 km to the north of the city of 
Swansea, approximately 1 km southeast of Felindre and 1.4 km north of 
Llangyfelach (Figure NTS-1). The western extent of the Project Site 
encompasses parts of the Access Road leading to the Substation and 
Felindre Gas Compressor Station from the B4489. 
 
The area surrounding the Project Site is, at present, predominantly rural in 
character. The Project is located primarily within fields used for grazing, 
bounded by a mixture of drainage ditches, fencing and poor quality 
hedgerows with substantial gaps in them. There are no residential dwellings 
located within the boundary of the Project Site. Most of the Project Site is 
improved grassland but there are areas of marshy grassland in the south 
eastern part of the Generating Equipment Site. 
 
The 
National 
Gas 
Transmission 
System, 
a 
Water 
Main 
and 
a 
decommissioned Oil Pipeline cross the Project Site and there is also a 
network of electricity pylons and overhead lines which lead to and from the 
Substation as well as other utilities. The Felindre Water Treatment Works is 
located to the northwest, while the Cefn Betingau Solar Park and Abergelli 
Solar Farm are located to the east of Project Site, and Rhyd-y-pandy Solar 
Park within the vicinity. All of these features have been considered in the 
design of the Project to ensure that they are safeguarded either through 
avoidance or minimal interaction. 
 
The closest residential dwellings to the Generating Equipment Site are: 
Abergelli Farmhouse; Llwynhelig; Felin Wen Farm; Lletty Morfil Farm; Cefn 
betingau; and Maes-eglwys.  
 
Generating Equipment Technology 
 
This is an ‘industrial’ type of turbine, fuelled by natural gas. This type of 
turbine has been selected as it is suited to generating up to 299 MW using 
only one unit, thereby reducing potential effects of noise, air quality and 
visual impacts. Additionally, they are suitable for frequent and fast start-ups, 
flexibility, and high-availability maintenance techniques.   
 
A schematic showing the OCGT operation is shown in Insert 1. 
 
ES Non-Technical Summary 
Abergelli Power Project 
7 
 
The main equipment in an OCGT is a Gas Turbine Generator, including the 
following components: 
 Air inlet filter house; 
 Air inlet duct; 
 Exhaust diffuser; and 
 Auxiliaries, including: 
- 
Lube oil system; 
- 
Air dryers; 
- 
Fuel gas filter package; 
- 
Instrument air system; 
- 
Compressor washing; and 
- 
A stack with an exhaust silencer would also be part of the OCGT.  
 
 
In the gas turbine, air is compressed and natural gas is injected. The fuel 
burns in the compression chamber, producing hot, high pressure gases. This 
gas passes across the blades of the gas turbine, causing the gas turbine to 
rotate which in turn drives the electrical generators to produce electricity. An 
exhaust silencer is used to reduce noise arising from this process.  
 
The excess gases produced from this process will be released to the 
atmosphere via a ‘stack’ (chimney). The stack will be equipped with an 
emissions monitoring system that will ensure that emissions of oxides of 
nitrogen (NOx) to the atmosphere are within acceptable limits. 
Insert 1: Schematic Diagram of an Open Cycle Gas Turbine 
 
ES Non-Technical Summary 
Abergelli Power Project 
8 
 
 
Alternative scenarios for the stack height have been tested rigorously during 
the design process in order to determine the stack height that is required to 
achieve adequate dispersion of exhaust gases in line with environmental 
legislation. The assessment concluded that a stack height of between 35 m 
and 45 m would be suitable. 
 
Information within the ES has been presented under the assumption that the 
Project will have an operational lifetime of 25 years. Therefore, for the 
purposes of the ES, it is assumed that the Generating Equipment and above 
ground structures would be removed. The Generating Equipment Site would 
re-instated to a similar condition as before any construction, below ground 
elements, such as building platforms, would remain in situ, covered with 
topsoil and reseeded.  
 
Alternatives 
 
A review of alternative technology has been undertaken to determine the 
optimal technology choice for the Project. This review considered OCGT, 
Combined Cycle Gas Turbine (CCGT) and Combined Heat and Power 
(CHP) as comparative technologies and considered visual impact, water 
resources, noise and emissions, layout, operational requirements and the 
ability to start up and shut down quickly. It was concluded that OCGT 
provided the best technology choice taking these criteria into account.  
 
Site selection was also an important consideration with alternative sites and 
layouts being explored as part of the early site development. Important 
factors for site selection were: 
 Proximity to a suitable electrical and gas connection; 
 Proximity to sensitive ecological, environmental and social designations 
or features; 
 Has sufficient land available for the Power Generation Plant, Gas 
Connection and Electrical Connection; and 
 Proximity to a well-developed road network. 
 
Furthermore, the suitability of the Project Site is confirmed by its close 
proximity to other industrial developments (including the Felindre Gas 
Compressor Station and Substation). It is also largely situated on poor grade 
agricultural land, and the design of the development has evolved to allow the 
Generating Equipment Site to be consolidated on land to the north of the 
Water Main. 
 
ES Non-Technical Summary 
Abergelli Power Project 
9 
 
Mitigation 
 
Mitigation which is either implicit in the design of the Project or its 
construction and operation through standard control measures routinely 
used, such as working within best practice guidance during construction, is 
known as embedded mitigation.  
 
The following mitigation is embedded into the revised design of the Project:   
 An Outline Construction Environmental Management Plan (CEMP) has 
been prepared which provides details of mitigation measures to be 
implemented to avoid adverse effects on sensitive receptors such as 
habitats and residential dwellings during the construction phase. This 
includes details regarding the management of waste, dust, noise, and 
traffic, nuisance and complaints, working hours, limits for emissions, 
monitoring to be undertaken, roles and responsibilities of construction 
staff, and the likely contents of any topic specific management plans. 
 The Outline Drainage Strategy and an Outline Surface Water 
Management Plan for the Project has been designed in order to mitigate 
any likely significant effects to surface water quality and flood risk;  
 Dispersion modelling and noise modelling have determined the minimum 
and maximum stack height to avoid likely significant effects from 
operational emissions (deposition) and sound power outputs;   
 Avoidance of Ancient Woodland and other sensitive habitats by design, 
and the creation of an Ecological Mitigation Area;  
 An Outline Landscape and Ecology Mitigation Plan (LEMP) and Outline 
Landscape and Ecology Mitigation Strategy (LEMS) provide details on 
how areas will be reinstated post-construction.  
 
This embedded mitigation has been assumed for the purposes of the ES to 
be in place from the outset, as it is mitigation without which the Project would 
be unlikely to be granted consent or allowed to commence. If likely adverse 
significant effects are determined by the assessment, additional mitigation 
measures are proposed e.g. habitat replacement. 
 
The ES has therefore assessed the likely significant effects of the Project 
including embedded mitigation.  
 
ES Non-Technical Summary 
Abergelli Power Project 
10 
3 
Assessment Methodology 
 
Assessment of Receptors 
 
For each specialist topic area, sensitive ‘receptors’ are identified which may 
be affected by the Project. This includes living organisms, habitats, natural 
resources, receptors in the historic environment in or around the Site, which 
could be adversely affected during construction of the Project, during the 
operation of the Project, or during decommissioning of the Project. 
 
The assessment methodology used for the ES was broadly the same for all 
topic areas. For each topic, the assessment of significance is informed by 
the sensitivity of the existing or baseline environmental conditions or 
character, and the magnitude of the change to the existing conditions or 
baseline character which is expected to occur as a result of the Project.  
 
The value or sensitivity of the receptors is assessed according to the relative 
importance of existing environmental features on or near to the site, or by 
the sensitivity of receptors, i.e. whether they are likely to be robust enough to 
be unaffected by the Project or alternatively are highly susceptible to the type 
of effects likely to occur.  
 
Table NTS-1 provides general definitions of the sensitivity criteria used 
within the assessment. 
Table NTS-1: Generic Guidelines for the Assessment of Value/Sensitivity  
Value / 
Sensitivity 
Guidelines 
Very High 
The receptor has little or no ability to absorb change without 
fundamentally altering its present character, is of very high 
environmental value, or of international importance. 
High 
The 
receptor 
has 
low 
ability 
to 
absorb 
change 
without 
fundamentally 
altering 
its 
present 
character, 
is 
of 
high 
environmental value, or of national importance. 
Medium 
The receptor has moderate capacity to absorb change without 
significantly altering its present character, has some environmental 
value, or is of regional importance. 
Low 
The receptor is tolerant of change without detriment to its character, 
is low environmental value, or local importance. 
Negligible 
The receptor is resistant to change and is of little environmental 
value. 
ES Non-Technical Summary 
Abergelli Power Project 
11 
 
Measurement of Environmental Impacts 
 
The magnitude of potential effects on environmental baseline conditions is 
identified through consideration of the Project. Where the design is not yet 
fixed, we have considered the parameters and assessed the "worst case" 
scenario to ensure that the assessment is robust and describes the fullest 
extent of likely effects.  The setting of parameters for assessment in this way 
is sometimes referred to as the "Rochdale Envelope" approach.  The 
assessment of magnitude of changes takes into account the scale or degree 
of change from the existing situation as a result of the effect being 
considered; and the duration and reversibility of the effect, as well as 
consideration of relevant legislative or policy standards or guidelines. 
 
To this end, where flexibility in parameters for the Project (such as the height 
of the stack) has been provided, the Applicant has assessed the realistic 
worst case and it is made clear in each ‘topic’ assessment what this 
constitutes. 
 
Taking the above into consideration, it has been determined that for all topic 
areas to be addressed in the EIA except air quality, the highest stack height 
(45 m) represents the 'worst case'. For air quality the minimum stack height 
of 35 m represents the 'worst case' due to lower dispersion. 
 
Table NTS-2 provides general definitions of effect magnitude criteria. In each 
specialist chapter of the ES, effect magnitude criteria will be explained with 
reference to that particular discipline. 
Table NTS-2: Generic Guidelines for the Assessment of Magnitude 
Magnitude Guidelines 
High 
Total loss or major alteration to key elements/features of the baseline 
conditions such that post development character/composition of 
baseline conditions will be fundamentally changed. 
Medium 
Loss or alteration to one or more key elements/features of the 
baseline 
conditions 
such 
that 
post 
development 
character/composition of the baseline conditions will be materially 
changed. 
Low 
Minor shift away from baseline conditions. Changes arising from the 
alteration will be detectable but not material; the underlying 
character/composition of the baseline conditions will be similar to the 
pre-development situation. 
Negligible 
Very little change from baseline conditions. Change is barely 
distinguishable, approximating to a “no change” situation. 
 
ES Non-Technical Summary 
Abergelli Power Project 
12 
 
Measurement of Environmental Effects 
 
A combination of the magnitude of the effect and the sensitivity of the 
receptor determines the significance of effect (Table NTS-3).  For instance, 
when a receptor that is deemed very sensitive to change is exposed to an 
environmental impact of high magnitude, the resultant effect on the receptor 
will be classed as Major.  
 
The issue may have a positive or negative impact on the receptor. Therefore, 
the significance of effects is reported using a seven-point scale, from: Major 
Adverse; Moderate Adverse; Minor Adverse; Negligible; Minor Beneficial; 
Moderate Beneficial; to Major Beneficial. For some assessments, 
professional judgement has been applied. Where this is the case, it is 
indicated in the topic chapter.  
 
Generally, effects which are Major or Moderate are considered to be 
significant. Minor and Negligible effects are considered to be not significant.   
Table NTS-3: Classification of Effects 
Magnitude 
Value and Sensitivity of Receptor 
Very High 
High 
Medium 
Low 
Negligible 
High 
Major 
Major 
Moderate 
Moderate 
Minor 
Medium 
Major 
Moderate 
Moderate 
Minor 
Negligible 
Low 
Moderate 
Moderate 
Minor 
Negligible 
Negligible 
Negligible 
Minor 
Minor 
Negligible 
Negligible 
Negligible 
 
 
ES Non-Technical Summary 
Abergelli Power Project 
13 
4 
Assessment Findings 
 
Introduction 
 
The ES identifies the key environmental topics that have been assessed. For 
each assessment topic, the ES describes the methodological approach to 
assessment, provides existing information on the local environment (the 
environmental ‘baseline’), and describes the potential effects on that 
environment during construction, operation and decommissioning. For each 
assessment topic decommissioning effects are considered to be comparable 
to those during construction and are not discussed further within this NTS 
with the exception of Air Quality.  
 
The environmental topic areas reported on in the ES are summarised below. 
 
Air Quality 
Introduction 
 
This chapter has identified the receptors (Table NTS-4) which may be 
impacted by the Project and assessed the likelihood of significant effects in 
relation to air quality, namely dust during construction, and operational 
emissions. 
 
A desk based study and information obtained from various sources including 
CCS and DEFRA was undertaken.  
 
Air quality monitoring data was collated from the Cwm Level Park monitoring 
site, and this was utilised for the air quality modelling undertaken for the 
impact assessment. Modelled Air Quality Receptors are presented in Figure 
NTS-3.  
Table NTS-4: Air Quality Sources and Receptors 
Phase 
Source 
Receptor 
Construction and 
decommissioning  
 
Dust and traffic 
emissions 
Residential 
dwellings 
and 
construction 
workers within 350 m of potential dust sources 
and 50 m of construction routes 
Ecological receptors within 100 m and 50 m of 
construction routes 
Operation 
 
Aerial deposition 
and 
Concentration 
Residential dwellings within 10 km  
Ecological receptors (such as designated 
sites) within 2 km  
ES Non-Technical Summary 
Abergelli Power Project 
14 
Residual Effects  
 
The assessment of residual effects below assumes that the embedded 
mitigation (described in Section 2.4) is implemented.  
Construction and Decommissioning of the Project 
 
Air quality effects during construction of the Power Generation Plant, Gas 
Connection and the Electrical Connection are likely to give rise to emissions 
of dust/particulate matter.  
 
Given the Low sensitivity of the receptors identified on Figure NTS-3, 
combined with a Low / Negligible magnitude of effect due to the embedded 
mitigation, the air quality effects during construction are predicted to be 
Negligible, and therefore not significant.  
 
As the decommissioning activities will be similar in nature though less 
intensive than the construction activities, the decommissioning phase is 
anticipated to give rise to similar or lesser environmental effects. However, 
this is not the case in respect of air quality effects due to the addition of 
demolition activities during the decommissioning phase which will result in a 
slight increase in the potential for dust/particulate matter. As such, unlike 
other chapters of the ES, Chapter 6: Air Quality has assessed the effects of 
decommissioning 
as 
they 
differ 
from 
construction 
effects. 
The 
decommissioning effects from air quality arise from the demolition of the 
Power Generation Plant. However, based on the remoteness to the nearest 
ecological and residential receptors, the effects are predicted to be 
Negligible, and therefore not significant.   
Operation of the Project 
 
Effects during the operational phase are limited to the Power Generation 
Plant only. Sensitivity testing for the stack height (between 20-50 m) has 
been performed to determine the minimum stack height for the Power 
Generation Plant required for the adequate dispersion of emissions and to 
meet legislative air quality targets. The dispersion model showed significant 
benefits as the stack height increased to 32 m in terms of maximum ground 
level concentrations of NO2 and CO.  
 
As a result, a worst case minimum stack height of 35 m was modelled for the 
parameters of the Generating Equipment. The magnitude of the effects on 
pollutant concentrations for the Generating Equipment are considered to be 
Negligible for all pollutant and averaging periods considered within the 
dispersion modelling.  
 
As such, impacts on air quality as a result of the Project are Negligible and 
therefore not significant.  
ES Non-Technical Summary 
Abergelli Power Project 
15 
 
Conclusions 
 
No residual significant effects have been identified for each component of 
the Project, or the Project as a whole due to the embedded mitigation 
inherent within the design. Therefore no additional mitigation is required.   
 
Noise and Vibration 
Introduction 
 
The potential effects from noise and vibration on local residential receptors 
from the Project have been assessed. 
 
A desk based study and baseline noise monitoring was undertaken in 2014 
and repeated in 2018 to establish baseline sound levels at these receptors.  
The study area has been determined to incorporate the nearest 
representative Noise Sensitive Receptors (NSRs) in all directions as shown 
on Figure NTS-4. These are all residential dwellings.  
 
The noise environment is characterised by animals, farming activities and 
distance road traffic during the day, and the wind in trees and distant road 
traffic at night, and noise from the existing Substation.  
Residual Effects  
 
The assessment of residual effects below assumes that the embedded 
mitigation described in Section 2.4 is implemented.   
Construction and Decommissioning of the Project 
 
Construction activities are likely to occur during weekdays (during daytime 
hours), Saturday mornings and mornings during Bank Holidays. Noise and 
vibration from construction activities have the potential to result in adverse 
effects at NSRs which are all classed as highly sensitive receptors.  
 
Due to the application of embedded mitigation there are no more than Minor 
adverse noise and vibration effects at all NSRs during the  construction 
phase, which are not significant. Therefore, no further additional mitigation 
or monitoring measures are required.  
Operation of the Power Generation Plant   
 
The effects during the operational phase are limited to the Generating 
Equipment. Operational noise and vibration effects from the Access Road 
and the AGI are Negligible, and therefore have been scoped out of the 
assessment.  
ES Non-Technical Summary 
Abergelli Power Project 
16 
 
No causes of significant vibration associated with the Project are known; the 
primary rotating equipment within the generator set will be balanced to a 
high degree and constantly monitored for any changes in the vibration levels 
it produces. Therefore further assessment of operational vibration is scoped 
out of this assessment. 
 
At all NSRs, the ambient sound levels during the day predicted to be 
produced by the Generating Equipment were assessed to have Negligible 
effects, and are therefore not significant.  
 
At night, there is predicted to be at worst, Minor adverse effects, with the 
exception of NSR 1. The ambient sound level at NSR 1 after inclusion of the 
Generation Equipment produces a moderate significance of effect due to the 
pre-existing high ambient levels at that location.  However, the addition of the 
power station sound causes the ambient level at NSR 1 to increase by only 1 
dB.  Such an increase would not be considered to be significant therefore 
the impact of the scheme on the sound environment is Negligible. The effect 
of the operation of the Generation Equipment is therefore not significant.   
Conclusion  
 
No residual significant effects have been identified for each component of 
the Project, or the Project as whole due to the embedded mitigation inherent 
within the design. Therefore no additional mitigation is required. 
 
Ecology 
Introduction 
 
This assessment has identified ecological designated sites, habitats, species 
or ecosystems which may be affected by the Project and assessed the 
likelihood of significant effects. This chapter also considers potential effects 
from air quality, noise, water, landscape, and lighting on ecological receptors. 
 
A desk based study has been undertaken for a 2 km radius for nationally 
designated sites (SSSI, SINC) and 10 km for internationally designated sites 
(Ramsar, SAC, SPA). Designated sites for the 2 km radius are illustrated in 
Figure NTS-5. 
 
The following ecological surveys have been undertaken to establish the 
ecological baseline:  
 Habitat survey;  
 Great crested newt survey;  
 Reptile survey;  
 Otter and water vole survey;  
 Dormouse survey;  
ES Non-Technical Summary 
Abergelli Power Project 
17 
 Hedgerow; 
 Badger survey; and,  
 Bat roost assessment and activity survey. 
Residual Effects  
 
Further to the embedded mitigation described in Section 2.4, the following 
additional mitigation will also be implemented: ecological enhancement 
measures such as replacement habitats where possible via the Outline 
Landscape and Ecology Mitigation Plan (LEMP), Outline Landscape and 
Ecology Mitigation Strategy (LEMS) and pre-construction surveys.  
 
Therefore the assessment concludes the following residual effects: 
Construction and Decommissioning of the Power Generation Plant  
 There will be permanent Minor adverse habitat loss to Broadleaved 
Woodland, trees, and Semi-Improved Natural Grassland.  
 There will be a permanent Minor adverse effect on Invertebrates, 
Amphibians, Breeding Birds, due to potential loss of habitats, including 
breeding, foraging, and sheltering habitats.   
 There will be permanent Minor adverse habitat loss to Lletty-Morfil 
SINC, Marshy Grassland, removal of two ponds, and approximately 140 
m of hedgerows.  
 There will be a permanent Minor adverse effect on Reptiles and 
Badgers caused by the removal of habitats.    
 There will be a temporary Minor adverse effect on Water Vole from 
disturbance from construction activities.   
 There will be a temporary Minor adverse effect on Otter from 
disturbance from construction activities   
 There will be potential for Minor adverse effects to Bats due to removal 
of habitat and disturbance to hibernation roosts, potential severance and 
disturbance from localised night time illumination in winter months.  
 There will be potential for Minor adverse effects to Breeding Birds due 
to localised night time illumination in winter months. 
Construction of the Gas Connection  
 There 
will 
be 
temporary 
Minor 
adverse 
habitat 
loss 
to 
Dense/Continuous Scrub, Semi-Improved Neutral Grassland. 
 There will be permanent Minor adverse habitat loss to trees.  
 There will be temporary Minor adverse effects Reptiles, Invertebrates, 
and Amphibians through the temporary loss of habitats.  
ES Non-Technical Summary 
Abergelli Power Project 
18 
 There will be temporary Minor adverse effects to Breeding Birds from 
noise, loss of habitat and localised night time illumination in winter 
months. 
 There will be a Minor adverse temporary habitat loss to broadleaved 
woodland, semi-improved grassland, one pond, and up to 180 m of 
Hedgerows.  
 There will be a Minor adverse effect to Badgers and Otters from 
potential to harm via construction activities.  
 There will be potential Minor adverse effects to Bats due to temporary 
removal of foraging habitat and disturbance from construction activities.  
 There is a Minor adverse effect from the potential for construction 
activities to spread invasive species. 
Construction of the Electrical Connection 
 There will be temporary Minor adverse habitat loss to broadleaved 
woodland and trees.  
 There will be a Minor adverse effect to Amphibians, Reptiles and Bats 
from construction activities.  
 There will be temporary Minor adverse effects to Breeding Birds from 
noise and localised night time illumination in winter months.   
 There is the potential for Otters to be effected due to construction of the 
Electrical Connection which is within 10 m of several watercourses. This 
is classified as a Minor adverse effect.  
Operational Phase of the Power Generation Plant  
 Bats and Invertebrates will experience Minor adverse effects from the 
operation lighting.   
 Reptiles will experience Minor adverse effects from risk of direct 
mortality from the use of the Access Road by operational traffic. 
Conclusions 
 
No residual significant effects have been identified for each component of 
the Project, or the Project as a whole, due to the embedded mitigation 
inherent within the design and the additional mitigation measures such as 
replacement habitats where possible via the LEMP, Landscape and Ecology 
Mitigation Strategy and pre-construction surveys.   
 
 
ES Non-Technical Summary 
Abergelli Power Project 
19 
 
Water Quality and Resources 
Introduction 
 
An assessment of the likely significant effects on water quality, water 
resources and flood risk has been undertaken.  
 
The study area adopted with respect to the water quality and water 
resources extends beyond the Project Site Boundary as illustrated in Figure 
NTS-6. The study area therefore includes the area within the Project Site 
Boundary and a potential zone of influence (ZoI) which is defined as a 
distance over which significant effects on important water receptors/features 
can reasonably have the potential to occur.  
 
In this case, from the perspective of water receptors/features, this is defined 
as a 1 km buffer ZoI around the Project Site Boundary. A desk study and 
Project Site walkover have identified a number of receptors (waterbodies) 
within 1 km of the Project Site Boundary, including the Afon Llan and its 
tributaries, ponds within the Project Site Boundary and several SINCs. The 
Loughor Estuary/Bury Inlet SAC is located 7 km from the Project Site 
Boundary.  
 
No part of the Generating Equipment Site is located within in a flood risk 
zone, as designated by NRW. However a small area on the periphery of the 
Generating Equipment Site’s eastern boundary is within Zone B (previous 
evidence of historical flooding) of the TAN15 Development Advice Maps.   
Residual Effects 
 
The assessment of residual effects below assumes that the embedded 
mitigation (described in Section 2.4) is implemented, specifically the Outline 
Drainage Strategy and Outline Surface Water Management Plan.    
Construction and Decommissioning of the Project 
 
There is a potential Negligible effect from discharging water from 
construction excavations containing increased pollutants and sediment loads 
from movement of materials to all identified receptors with the exception of 
the Loughor Estuary, which was considered to have a Minor adverse effect. 
All effects are considered to be not significant. 
Operation of the Power Generation Plant 
 
Effects from surface water runoff from impermeable areas and disruption of 
water storage and flow from the presence of the Generating Equipment Site 
on the Afon Llan and its tributaries are predicted to be Minor adverse. This 
is therefore not significant.  
ES Non-Technical Summary 
Abergelli Power Project 
20 
Conclusions 
 
No residual significant effects have been identified for each component of 
the Project, or the Project as whole due to the embedded mitigation inherent 
within the design. Therefore no additional mitigation is required. In addition, 
NRW have agreed with the conclusions of the FCA and WFD Screening 
Assessment as part of their consultation responses to the 2018 PEIR. 
 
Geology, Ground Conditions, and Hydrogeology 
Introduction 
 
An assessment has been undertaken to assess the effects of the Project on 
geology, ground conditions and hydrogeology within and in the immediate 
vicinity of the Project Site. The assessment also provides details of the 
geological conditions and the presence of potentially contaminated land and 
hazardous materials. 
 
Further to a desk based study (based on a 1 km study area), and Project 
Site walkover, the assessment identified no landfill sites, groundwater 
abstraction or pollution incidents within the Project Site. Geology, Ground 
Conditions, and Hydrogeology features are illustrated on Figure NTS-7. 
 The land-use is predominantly agricultural, used for sheep and horse 
grazing bounded by drainage ditches, fencing and hedgerows.  
 The agricultural land classification for the land within and surrounding 
the Project Site is Grade 4 (“poor quality agricultural land”) “with severe 
limitations which significantly restricts the range of crops and/or level of 
yields, mainly suited to grass with occasional arable crops”. 
 There are four types of superficial deposits identified across the Project 
Site comprising of glacial till, deposits of sand and gravel, alluvium 
deposits of clay, silt, sand and gravel, and peat. The presence of peat 
will be confirmed during the post consent ground investigation. The 
superficial deposits and underlying geology are both classified as 
Secondary A Aquifers, which are highly sensitive controlled waters.  
 
 
The desk based study does not indicate the presence of any known 
historical ground workings on the Project Site; however, within the 1 km 
search buffer there are ten records of historical ground working features 
which have all ceased production.  
 
These comprise nine opencast mines producing sandstones, sand and 
gravel, and one underground mine producing coal.”. There are no known 
potential sources of contamination within the Project Site Boundary, 
however, offsite sources may comprise historic landfill and landfill extension, 
and localised contamination from agricultural land use. 
ES Non-Technical Summary 
Abergelli Power Project 
21 
 
The current CCS development plan Proposals Map indicates that sand and 
gravel reserves are present underlying the Project Site. 
Residual Effects 
 
The assessment of residual effects below assumes that the embedded 
mitigation described in Section 2.4 is implemented.   
Construction and Decommissioning of the Power Generation Plant 
 
The construction of the Power Generation Plant is predicted to have Minor 
adverse effects to mineral resources, structures from stability or ground 
conditions, land quality, human health and controlled waters, with Negligible 
effects on agricultural land and peat deposits. Therefore these effects are 
not significant.  
Construction of the Gas Connection and Electrical Connection 
 
The construction of the Electrical Connection and Gas Connection are both 
predicted to have a Minor adverse effect on mineral resources for both coal, 
sand and gravel reserves, along with a Negligible effect on agricultural land. 
This is considered to be not significant. 
 
Operation of the Project 
 
The operational phase is anticipated to have a Minor adverse effect on all 
receptors from the Power Generation Plant, Gas Connection and Electrical 
Connection, with the exception of Power Generation Plant structures which 
have a Minor beneficial effect from the stabilisation of ground conditions. 
Conclusions 
 
No residual significant effects have been identified for each component of 
the Project, or the Project as a whole due to the embedded mitigation 
inherent within the design. Therefore no additional mitigation is required.  
 
Landscape and Visual Effects 
Introduction 
 
The potential landscape and visual effects have been assessed on nineteen 
local representative viewpoints and residential receptors as selected in 
consultation with NRW and CCS and presented in Figure NTS-8. The 
Project have been assessed using the Guidelines for Landscape & Visual 
Impact Assessment (GLVIA3). 
ES Non-Technical Summary 
Abergelli Power Project 
22 
 
A desk based study, Project Site walkover and summer and winter 
photography has been undertaken to establish the baseline landscape 
setting at these viewpoints. The areas where the Project can be seen (Zone 
of Theoretical Visibility (ZTV)) is based on a maximum stack height of 45 m. 
The ZTV is presented in Figure NTS-8. 
 
The Project Site lies centrally within the Afon Lian Llan Valley which forms a 
wide lowland basin with higher ground and steep valleys to the north and 
east. The valley floor is wide and undulating, backed to the north by upland 
moorland rising to over 250 m AOD and divided by numerous steep, narrow 
valleys. The Project Site is located within a valley with ground rising to the 
north, east and west which provides visual containment. Ground levels vary 
across the Project Site from approximately 140 m AOD in the north-west 
corner to 80 m AOD along the southern perimeter. Ground levels generally 
fall in a southerly and south easterly direction. 
 
A number of solar farms lie around the Project Site particularly to the north-
east and east as well as to the north-west. The Felindre Business Park 
adjacent to the Felindre Park and Share at Brynwhilhach has been partially 
constructed with service infrastructure in place along with an outline 
landscape structure including stone walls and planting. The Project Site is 
also in the vicinity of other industrial features such as the Substation and 
Felindre Gas Compressor Station. 
 
Several designated landscapes are present within the 15 km study area. 
 The Brecon Beacons National Park lies 12.8 km to the northern edge of 
the Project Site at its closest point.  
 The Gower Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty (AONB) lies 9.1 km to 
the south-west of the Project Site.  
 The Mawr Uplands Special Landscape Area is located within the 15 km 
study area.  
 
LANDMAP 
is 
an 
all-Wales 
landscape 
resource 
where 
landscape 
characteristics, qualities and influences on the landscape are recorded and 
evaluated. Five LANDMAP areas are within the 15 km study: 
 LANDMAP Aspect Area - Visual and Sensory; 
 LANDMAP Aspect Area – Habitat; 
 LANDMAP Aspect Area – Geological; 
 LANDMAP Aspect Area – Historic; and 
 LANDMAP Aspect Area – Cultural. 
 
 
ES Non-Technical Summary 
Abergelli Power Project 
23 
Residual Effects 
 
The assessment of residual effects below assumes that the embedded 
mitigation (described in Section 2.4) is implemented.  This includes the 
production and implementation of a Landscape and Ecology Mitigation 
Strategy and Landscape and Ecology Mitigation Plan. 
Construction and Decommissioning of the Power Generation Plant 
 
The Landscape Assessment concluded that the Project would visually 
impact the Project Site and the following LANDMAP Aspect Areas: 
 
Visual and Sensory Aspect Areas – Rhyd-y-pandy and Penllergaer forest 
(Moderate sensitivity);  
 
Landscape Habitats Aspect Areas – North of Gorseinon and Swansea 
(Moderate sensitivity); East of Penllergaer (High sensitivity) and Waun Y 
Garn Wen (High sensitivity); 
 
Historic Landscape Aspect Area – H27 Gower Supraboscus Agricultural 
(Outstanding sensitivity);  
 
Geological Landscape Aspect Area – Penllergaer (Outstanding 
sensitivity); and  
 
Cultural Landscape Aspect Area – The Mawr (High sensitivity). 
 
During the construction phase of works, significant adverse effects would be 
limited to the LANDMAP Aspect areas on the Project Site and five of the 
nineteen viewpoints (as illustrated by viewpoints 9, 14, 15, 16 and 17), 
where the embedded mitigation would not be sufficient to reduce these 
significant adverse effects.  
 
Effects on visual amenity from viewpoints 9, 14, 15, 16 and 17 are Moderate 
or Major adverse, which is considered significant. All other remaining 
viewpoints conclude Minor adverse effects or Negligible, which is not 
significant.   
Construction of the Gas Connection 
 
Construction of the Gas Connection would affect the Public Right of Way, 
north of Abergelli fach (viewpoint 9), resulting in a Moderate adverse effect. 
This is considered to be significant, however this effect is temporary as 
the trench would be reinstated post-construction.  
Construction of the Electrical Connection 
 
Construction of the Electrical Connection would not have any significant 
effects on the landscape and visual receptors due to its location beside the 
Access Road and the temporary trench being reinstated after construction.  
ES Non-Technical Summary 
Abergelli Power Project 
24 
Operation of the Power Generation Plant  
 
Once operational the embedded landscape mitigation would assist in 
screening lower parts of the Power Generation Plant but would not be 
sufficient to reduce significant adverse effects on the LANDMAP Aspect 
areas at a Project Site level and from five of the nineteen viewpoints. This is 
due to the scale and mass of the Power Generation Plant and height of the 
stack. The Project would impact the same five representative viewpoints 
(viewpoints 9, 14, 15, 16 and 17) as during construction, with Moderate to 
Major adverse effect, which are therefore considered significant.  
 
The landscape resource contained within the 5 km study area and the 
majority of viewpoints would not experience significant adverse effects.  
 
The Project Site lies within a valley which, combined with the existing 
woodland and undulating topography, provides a high degree of visual 
containment. Views from local roads are screened or filtered by hedgerows 
and earth banks. Views overlooking the Project Site from higher ground to 
the north and from more distant views to the south east near to the Gower 
AONB would not experience significant effects due to the intervening 
distance, vegetation and built form. Where views of the upper parts of the 
Power Generation Plant and stack are visible in the middle distance of 
views, they would be seen in the context of the existing network of pylons 
and transmission lines as well as the tall structures present at the Felindre 
Gas Compressor Station and Substation.  
 
As a result significant residual effects on the landscape and visual resource 
are localised and not extensive.  
Conclusions 
 
During construction and operation of the Power Generation Plant, significant 
landscape effects are only predicted to result on the landscape resource of 
the Project Site and not on the surrounding landscape character. 
Furthermore, of the 19 representative viewpoints assessed, only 5 of the 
viewpoints representing views from residential receptors (9, 14 – 17) would 
experience significant effects, albeit localised during construction and 
operation of the Power Generation Plant.   
 
 
ES Non-Technical Summary 
Abergelli Power Project 
25 
 
Traffic, Transport, and Access 
Introduction 
 
This chapter provides a preliminary assessment of the likely transport 
effects. A Transport Assessment has been undertaken, and a Construction 
Traffic Management Plan (CTMP) and Construction Staff Travel Plan (CSTP) 
have been prepared and submitted with the DCO Application. 
 
The study area includes the Access Road between the Project Site and the 
B4489 and continues south to incorporate the M4 Junction 46 and the 
A48/Pant Lasau Road junction, as illustrated in Figure NTS-9. This baseline 
study area was selected to include the necessary junctions, key links, 
pedestrian routes (PRoWs, cycleways and footways), and Project access 
routes and these have been agreed with CCS. The following key links have 
been identified, and are illustrated in Figure NTS-9: 
 Link 1 – Rhyd-y-Pandy Road, between the AGI Access and the B4489; 
 Link 2 – B4489, between Rhyd-y-Pandy Road and the Access Road; 
 Link 3 – B4489, between the Access Road and the Felindre Park and 
Share; 
 Link 4 – B4489, between the Felindre Park and Share and the M4 
Junction 46; 
 Link 5 – M4 eastbound on-slip; 
 Link 6 – A48, between the northern and southern dumbbell roundabouts 
of the M4 Junction 46; 
 Link 7 – M4 westbound off-slip; 
 Link 8 – A48, between the M4 Junction 46 and the A48/Pant Lasau 
Road mini-roundabout; 
 Link 9 – Pant Lasau Road; 
 Link 10 – A48, southeast of the A48/Pant Lasau mini-roundabout; 
 Link 11 – B4489, south of the M4 Junction 46; and 
 Link 12 – A48, southwest of the M4 Junction 46. 
 
 
Footpaths LC34 and LC117 cross the Access Road at points approximately 
350 m and 1.3 km from the B4489. Footpath LC35B passes through the 
northern part of the Project Site. 
 
A baseline study and a traffic count survey were undertaken to identify the 
baseline conditions in the vicinity of the Project Site; including the local 
highway network and operational conditions, road safety and accessibility by 
sustainable modes such as cycle routes and footpaths. 
 
The transport assessment has only assessed construction traffic as 
operational traffic is considered to be Negligible and is therefore scoped out 
of this assessment.  
ES Non-Technical Summary 
Abergelli Power Project 
26 
Residual Effects  
 
The assessment of residual effects below assumes that the embedded 
mitigation (described in Section 2.4) is implemented. Receptors relating to 
severance, pedestrian delay, pedestrian amenity, and fear and intimidation 
are associated primarily with the pedestrian experience based on changes in 
the volume and composition of traffic. An increase in traffic volumes and 
heavy goods vehicle (HGV) composition can result in difficulties for 
pedestrians when crossing roads and affect the pleasantness of journeys. 
Construction and Decommissioning of the Power Generation Plant  
 
The majority of the transport links within the assessment will experience a 
Minor adverse effect during the peak hour for severance, pedestrian delay, 
amenity, fear and intimidation, which is therefore considered not significant.  
 
Effects to the footpaths which cross within the Project are considered to be 
Moderate adverse due to effects on the pedestrian and user experience, 
and therefore significant.   
 
There was also found to be an increased delay on B4489 (south) due to the 
Power Generation Plant which is considered Minor adverse, and a reduced 
delay on B4489 (north), M4 East Bound and West Bound Off-Slip which is 
considered Minor beneficial. The Minor beneficial effect is as a result of 
changes in the balance of traffic flows at the junction, which will result in 
more gaps for traffic exiting from these arms as traffic signal priorities are 
changed. This will result in a reduction in the level of delay of the arms 
benefitting from traffic flow balancing and an increase in arms which are 
forced to concede priority more than before flows were balanced.   
 
Effects to accidents and safety are Negligible. 
Construction of the Gas Connection   
 
The construction of the Gas Connection is predicted to cause Minor 
adverse effects from severance, pedestrian delay, pedestrian, amenity, fear 
and intimidation on the majority of receptors, and Moderate adverse effects 
on footpaths due to temporary closures and pedestrian experience during 
construction. 
 
There is predicted to be an increased delay on the M4 West Bound Off-Slip 
and Pant Lasau Road which is considered Minor adverse, and a reduced 
delay on B4489 (north and south) M4 East Bound Off-Slip which is 
considered Minor beneficial.   
 
Effects to accidents and safety are Negligible.  
ES Non-Technical Summary 
Abergelli Power Project 
27 
Construction of the Electrical Connection   
 
There is expected to be a Moderate adverse effect on footpaths during 
construction of the Electrical Connection due to temporary closures and 
effects on the pedestrian experience. This is considered a significant effect. 
 
There is predicted to be an increased delay on the B4489 (South), A48 
(southwest) and Pant Lasau Road which is considered Minor adverse, and 
a reduced delay on M4 East Bound and West Bound Off-Slips which is 
considered Minor beneficial.  
 
Effects to accidents and safety are Negligible. 
Conclusions 
 
This chapter has identified effects to the highway network, road safety and 
accessibility. Significant effects have been predicted during the construction 
and decommissioning phase from the Project, although these would be 
temporary. No effects during the operation of any components of the Project 
have been identified.  
 
Historic Environment 
Introduction 
 
The potential effects from the Project on the historic environmental resource 
of the Project Site and surrounding area have been assessed.  
 
A 1 km study area for the desk based assessment of historic assets and 
further consultation with CCS, Cadw and Glamorgan-Gwent Archaeological 
Trust (GGAT) has been undertaken as illustrated in Figure NTS-10.     
 
In addition, a ZTV based on the realistic worst case scenario of a 45 m stack 
has been prepared for the landscape and visual chapter and has informed 
the assessment of designated historic assets. The study area for the 
assessment of designated historical assets is 5 km.  
 
The Project Site contains no historic assets although one scheduled 
monument, one listed building and 26 non-scheduled monuments are 
present within the 1 km study area, and 16 Scheduled Monuments, 54 Listed 
Buildings (all grades), two Conservation Areas and three Registered Historic 
Parks and Gardens are present within the 5 km study area.  
 
 
ES Non-Technical Summary 
Abergelli Power Project 
28 
Residual Effects  
 
The assessment of residual effects below assumes that the embedded 
mitigation (described in Section 2.4) is implemented. Decommissioning 
effects have been scoped out of the Gas and Electrical Connections as they 
remain in situ. 
Construction and Decommissioning of the Power Generation Plant 
 
Construction of the Power Generation Plant will not have a physical impact 
on any known historic asset and there are no known historic assets exist 
within its footprint.  
 
The potential for significant unknown archaeology existing within the Project 
Site is considered to be low, with the possibility of its discovery being 
adequately addressed through a watching brief post-consent, pre-
construction.  
 
Therefore the effects during construction of the Power Generation Plant are 
not significant.  
Construction of the Gas Connection   
 
Construction of the Gas Connection will not have a significant physical 
impact on any known historic asset, with the exception of where the Gas 
Pipeline crosses a small percentage of a historic boundary (feature 
reference AB03), therefore requiring its removal. As this feature was already 
substantially altered when the preceding Oil Pipeline was installed, it is 
considered that little of the original historic fabric remains, and therefore the 
effect is considered to be Negligible. 
Construction of the Electrical Connection 
 
Construction of the Electrical Connection will not have a physical impact on 
any known historic asset and no known historic assets exist within its 
footprint. 
Operation of the Power Generation Plant  
 
No below ground disturbance is envisaged during the operational phase for 
any operational or maintenance activity, therefore there will be no further 
impact upon below ground archaeological remains once the Project is 
operational.  
ES Non-Technical Summary 
Abergelli Power Project 
29 
 
The Llansemlet Conservation Area (feature reference CA027), Penllergaer 
Park and Garden (feature reference GM054) and several listed buildings lie 
within the 5 km study area, and from these locations the stack may be 
visible. However, given the intervening landscape has been significantly 
developed, it is not anticipated that the Conservation Area, Park and Garden 
and Listed Buildings will be adversely affected by the Project.  
 
It is anticipated that Project will be slightly visible from the Scheduled Ancient 
Monument (Mynydd Pysodlyn Round Barrow) and therefore is considered to 
have a Minor adverse effect on the basis of its High value sensitivity. 
However this is not significant.  
Conclusions 
 
No residual significant effects have been identified for each component of 
the Project, or the Project as a whole due to the embedded mitigation 
inherent within the design. Therefore no additional mitigation is required.  
 
Socio-Economics 
Introduction 
 
This chapter provides an assessment of the likely socio-economic effects on 
the labour market, tourism economy, and community infrastructure arising 
from the Project. 
 
The socio-economic study area is based on drive time catchment areas from 
the Project. The ‘local area’ is defined within a 30-minute drive time; ‘wider 
area’ within a 45-minute drive time; and ‘wider region’ within a 60-minute 
drive time. This study area has identified a readily available labour force, with 
a high number of manual labourers.   
 
The tourism/business survey study area is limited to a 10 km radius of the 
Project as this is where the majority of impacts are anticipated. A desk based 
study was undertaken which identified a limited number of tourist attractions 
within the Project Site Boundary, which are the Cwm Clydach Nature 
Reserve, National Cycle Route 43 and the Teamforce Paintball and Laser 
Tag Activity Centre.  
 
The socio-economic wider study area (defined as the area within a 60 
minute drive time) surrounding the Project is characterised by:  
 An increasing population (2001-2017);  
 Projected population increase of c.7% between 2017 and 2035;  
 Slightly lower levels of unemployment comparable to the UK average;  
 A 
higher 
proportion 
of 
people 
working 
in 
construction 
and 
manufacturing jobs;  
ES Non-Technical Summary 
Abergelli Power Project 
30 
 Above average levels of employment in electricity and gas related 
occupations;   
 A lower proportion of people working in high value professional, 
scientific and technical activities, and finance & insurance occupations; 
A higher proportion of people employed in semi-skilled/unskilled jobs 
and lower proportion of people in highly skilled jobs; and 
 A higher proportion of people achieving no qualifications and low level 
qualifications compared to the UK average.  
 
The tourism economy was assessed using visitor statistics for the Swansea 
local authority area and the South West Wales area. Swansea had on 
average 7.35 million Great Britain (GB) day visits each year between 2013 
and 2015, which contributed £257.96 million.  
Residual Effects  
 
The assessment of residual effects below assumes that the embedded 
mitigation (described in Section 2.4) is implemented. 
Construction and Decommissioning of the Project   
 
The construction and decommissioning of the Power Generation Plant, Gas 
Connection and Electrical Connection is predicted to have Negligible effects 
on tourism, business, and communities during construction. The National 
Route 43 is likely to experience Minor adverse effects during construction. 
The Project as a whole is expected to have Minor adverse effect on 
community Infrastructure receptors but Negligible beneficial effects on 
Labour Markets.  
 
Overall these effects are not significant. 
Operation of the Project   
 
The operation of the Power Generation Plant, Gas Connection and Electrical 
Connection is predicted to have Negligible effects on tourism, business, and 
communities during operation. The National Route 43 is likely to experience 
Minor adverse effects during operation. The Project as a whole is expected 
to have Minor adverse effect on community Infrastructure receptors but 
Negligible beneficial effects on Labour Markets.  
 
Overall these effects are not significant. 
 
 
ES Non-Technical Summary 
Abergelli Power Project 
31 
Conclusions 
 
The Project will not have any significant adverse effects on tourism and 
recreation receptors in the area during construction or operation. Beneficial 
employment effects can however be enhanced through linkages with job 
centres, colleges, employability programmes and engagement with local 
construction firms and other supply chain companies. 
 
Other Effects Considered 
Introduction 
 
This chapter addresses topics that are not specifically addressed in the 
context of the main topic chapters elsewhere in this ES, or effects which are 
not considered to merit a chapter in their own right, but have been 
considered in line with requests from consultees, including through the 
Scoping Opinion.  
Effects during Construction and Decommissioning  
Waste 
 
Waste material may arise during the construction and decommissioning of 
the Project.  The Regional Waste Plan (Ref. 5) confirms that there is a good 
provision of waste management capacity in South West Wales to cover all 
types 
of 
waste 
arisings 
including 
industrial, 
construction 
and 
decommissioning, and hazardous waste. 
 
The Project will operate in full accordance with the Waste Framework 
Directive (Ref. 6), together with the Environmental Permitting (England and 
Wales) Regulations 2016 (Ref. 7) and the Waste (England and Wales) 
Regulations 2011 (Ref. 8). 
Public Health 
 
Public Health England (PHE) identified the local population as a sensitive 
receptor. Effects on human health from noise, air quality, nuisance, dust, 
ground contamination and pollution have been addressed in the relevant 
topic chapters and are the subject of embedded and additional mitigation 
where required. No likely significant effects during construction and 
decommissioning have been identified.  
Health and Safety 
 
The site manager will have the day to day responsibility for maintaining 
Health and Safety, and will produce a risk assessment and method 
statement detailing how they will minimise risks to Health and Safety. An 
approved procedure will:  
ES Non-Technical Summary 
Abergelli Power Project 
32 
 Identify the significant Health & Safety impacts that can be anticipated;  
 Assess the risks from these impacts;  
 Identify the control measures to be taken and re-calculate the risk; 
 Report where an inappropriate level of residual risk is identified so that 
action can be taken.  
 
The employer will ensure that a qualified first-aider can be provided at all 
times. Appropriately equipped first-aid stations will be easily accessible 
throughout the place of work. 
 
There will be no access to construction areas by the general public. The 
Project Site will be secured to avoid unauthorised access. 
Effects during Operation 
Waste 
 
During operation of the Power Generation Plant, a small amount of waste 
will arise. This waste will include waste that is both hazardous (such as 
oil/sludge, chemicals) and non-hazardous (general office waste, plastic, 
glass etc.). Appropriate treatment facilities exist locally, and waste produced 
by the Project will have a Negligible effect. 
Public Health 
 
There are three main likely significant effects on human health as follows: 
 An “Electromagnetic Field” (EMF) is a physical phenomenon that is 
produced by electrically charged objects. Underground cables, such as 
the one proposed for the Electrical Connection of the Project, do not give 
rise to electric fields above ground due to the shielding effect of the 
cable sheath.  The prospective magnetic field strength due to the 
proposed underground cables is calculated to remain below the public 
exposure basic restriction levels.  The general public will thus not be 
exposed to any increase in EMFs from the Electrical Connection and 
there will be Negligible effects arising from EMFs. 
 There is the potential for effects from air quality arising from operation of 
the Project which are associated with the stack emissions from the 
combustion of natural gas in the Generating Equipment releasing 
emissions of NOx. However, the Project has been designed to meet air 
quality standards at sensitive receptors. Modern gas-fired power plants 
are also inherently clean and produce far fewer emissions than other 
fossil fuel power plants (e.g. coal) when compared on an energy output 
basis. Effects to air quality have also been assessed as not significant as 
summarised in Section 4.2 of this NTS. 
 There is potential for effects from noise arising from the operation of the 
Power Generation Plant to impact human health. However with the 
ES Non-Technical Summary 
Abergelli Power Project 
33 
application of Best Practical Means, Best Available Techniques, and 
DCO Requirement for operational noise levels and compliance with the 
Environmental Permit, it is unlikely that there will be any significant 
effects.  Effects to noise and vibration have also been assessed as not 
significant as summarised in Section 4.3 of this NTS. 
 
Therefore, no significant health effects are anticipated as a result of the 
operation of the Project on public health. 
Climate Change 
 
Climate resilience has been built into the Project. The Project will contribute 
to UK emissions, but impacts on climate change from CO2 emissions are 
considered Negligible.  
Aviation 
 
The Civil Aviation Authority (CAA), Ministry of Defence (MoD), Swansea 
Airport and Abertawe Bro Morgannwg University Health Board were 
consulted and confirmed there were no issues with the Project.  
Health and Safety 
 
Routine maintenance of the Generating Equipment would take place on 
average once every six months. Bi-annual inspections will also take place to 
assess general condition. Inspections to replace or refurbish combustion and 
turbine ‘hot parts’ equipment are typically carried out approximately every six 
years.  
 
In the event of an issue with the Generating Equipment, alarms would signal 
any instance of abnormal operation. These alarms would not be audible 
externally. The plant would be shut down immediately in such instances and, 
if required, additional engineering staff would attend the Project Site. The 
Generating Equipment would not start up again until the issue had been 
resolved. 
 
The effect on health and safety is considered Negligible. 
Major Accidents 
 
The Project’s vulnerability to risk of major accidents and disasters has been 
considered: 
 In an air quality event where metrological conditions such as prevailing 
winds or inversion result in reduced air quality, the Project, as an emitter 
to air, has the potential to exacerbate the effect of the event. Operational 
emissions will be controlled through the Environment Permit. 
ES Non-Technical Summary 
Abergelli Power Project 
34 
 Given the nature of natural gas there is an inherent risk of both fire and 
gas leak associated with the Project from its supply and use. This will be 
managed through established industry safety procedures and standards.  
 Workers, rather than local residents, are the most at risk from 
engineering and industrial accidents, due to the distance from 
residential areas. There is legislation in force to ensure the protection of 
workers in the workplace. 
 
Regarding proximity to third party infrastructure such as the Felindre Gas 
Compressor Station, the Substation, the Water Main and the National Gas 
Transmission System. Mitigation has been embedded via the design of the 
Project by implementing appropriate minimum distances and having due 
regard to the required standoff distances between the Project and these 
infrastructure features. 
ES Non-Technical Summary 
Abergelli Power Project 
35 
5 
Cumulative Effects 
 
Overview 
 
In accordance with the EIA Regulations, the EIA has given consideration to 
‘cumulative effects’.  
 
Two types of effect have been considered:  
1.) 
Intra-project effects: These occur where a single receptor is affected 
by more than one source of effect arising from different aspects of the 
Project. This is also known as “in-combination effects”. An example of 
an intra-project effect would be where a local resident is affected by 
dust, noise and traffic disruption during the construction of a scheme, 
with the result being a greater nuisance than each individual effect 
alone; and  
2.) 
Inter-project effects: These effects occur as a result of a number of 
past (projects which have been granted planning permission), present 
(projects currently in the planning process but not yet granted 
permission) or reasonably foreseeable proposed developments, which 
individually might not be significant, but when considered together 
could create a significant cumulative effect on a shared receptor, and 
could include developments separate from or related to the Project.  
Generally, it is not anticipated that any future development in the area 
would change the significance of the predicted residual effects 
associated with the Project.   
 
Intra-Project effects on Shared Receptors   
 
Shared receptors from individual elements of the Project (e.g. construction of 
Power Generation Plant, Gas Connection and Electrical Connection) are 
likely to be limited to nearby residential dwellings and local communities:  
 
Due to the application of embedded and additional mitigation measures 
(such as the avoidance of habitats, the CEMP and topic specific 
management plans) which ensure that potential significant effects on shared 
receptors are unlikely, or the absence of any in-combination effects on 
shared receptors, the following topics are scoped out from the intra-project 
cumulative assessment:   
 Ecology - due to the embedded and additional mitigation, there is 
unlikely to be any cumulative effects from multiple components of the 
Project working simultaneously affecting several species. In addition, the 
total permanent habitat loss will be mitigated by the creation of the 
ES Non-Technical Summary 
Abergelli Power Project 
36 
Ecological Mitigation Area and / or enhancements via the Landscaping 
and Ecology Management Plan;   
 Socio-economic - no shared effects on receptors; 
 Historic Environment - no shared effects on receptors; and 
 Geology, Ground Conditions and Hydrogeology - no shared effects on 
receptors. 
 
 
Potential intra-project cumulative effects at the shared receptors may 
comprise of the following during the construction phase:   
 Noise effects;  
 Views from residential dwellings and PRoWs;   
 Potential effects on waterbodies and water based receptors from 
increased risk of sediment runoff and polluted discharges during the 
construction phase;  
 Traffic effects from increased vehicle numbers during the construction 
phase; and   
 Production of dust during the construction phase. 
 
 
Construction of the Project was a whole will result in construction activity not 
previously present and additional vehicles along access routes. This creates 
an increase in traffic flows for all Project components, disruption of views and 
potential production of noise, dust and air pollutants from the Project as a 
whole during the construction period. This may have an effect on local 
communities and nearby residential dwellings. As embedded and additional 
mitigation is proposed within the individual topic chapters (such as a CTMP 
and CEMP), this will result in a Minor adverse in-combination effect, which 
is not significant. 
 
Inter-Project Cumulative Effects   
 
A review of the planning applications and proposed developments within a 5 
km study area around the Project was undertaken to scope any other 
developments that were considered to constitute ‘large development’ 
schemes. A further review was undertaken to determine which of these 
developments had the potential to result in likely significant cumulative 
effects when considered alongside the Project within each individual 
technical chapter.   
 
Further to liaison with CCS, a “long list” of projects already consented and in 
construction, or consented but not yet implemented, in addition to those 
allocated within the LDP or applications made but not yet decided, was 
agreed. The “long list” was then reviewed and refined, resulting in a short list 
of developments being identified as having the potential for cumulative 
effects with the Project, and which are considered below. There are no other 
large developments present within the 5 km study area.  
ES Non-Technical Summary 
Abergelli Power Project 
37 
 
The list was updated and agreed with CCS after PEIR 2018 consultation to 
reflect current projects and their status. 
 
Inter-project effects fall into two types:  Inter-cumulative effects on shared 
receptors and intensification of effects on shared receptors.  
 
Inter-cumulative effects are when multiple types of effects act on a shared 
receptor. For an inter-cumulative effect to be present, cumulative effects 
must be identified across two or more topic chapters for a shared receptor(s) 
when assessing the Project cumulatively with another development. The 
assessment of these effects is presented in Table NTS-5. 
 
The ES also identifies cumulative effects of intensification of effects in 
individual topic areas. This type of cumulative effect arises when effects of a 
specific nature (for example, noise, landscape and visual) are intensified at a 
shared receptor when a Project is assessed cumulatively with another 
development. The assessment of these effects is presented in Table NTS-6. 
Table NTS-5: Inter-Cumulative Effects on Shared Receptors 
Development Status 
Potential for 
Cumulative 
Effects 
Cumulative Assessment on 
Shared Receptors 
Mynydd Y 
Gwair 
windfarm  
Under 
construction 
and 
will 
be 
operational 
prior 
to 
the 
commencement 
of the Project 
Construction 
Traffic 
 
Landscape & 
Visual 
Construction traffic will not have any 
likely significant effects due to the 
different 
timing 
of 
construction 
phases.  
 
It is not considered that any 
landscape and visual cumulative 
effects will be possible during 
operation 
due 
to 
the 
ensuing 
topography 
and 
landscape 
disrupting views of the Project in 
shared distant views from the Mawr 
LANDMAP 
Aspects 
Area 
and 
Brecon Beacons National Park. 
Therefore no significant cumulative 
effects are predicted. 
Proposed 
sustainable 
urban village 
at Felindre 
and other 
allocated 
sites 
Proposed in the 
LDP 
N/A 
This has been scoped out of the 
cumulative assessment as there are 
very limited details about the scale 
and 
nature 
of 
the 
proposed 
developments in which to form a 
robust basis for assessment. 
ES Non-Technical Summary 
Abergelli Power Project 
38 
 
 
In addition to the inter-cumulative, the ES also identifies cumulative effects. 
Cumulative effects arise when effects of a specific nature (for example, 
noise, landscape and visual) are intensified when a Project is assessed 
cumulatively with another development.   
 
Table NTS-6 presents the assessment of these cumulative effects for the 
Project. 
 
 
Felindre 
Business 
Park 
Partially 
constructed 
with 
Plot 
8 
permitted, 
but 
not 
yet 
in 
construction 
Landscape & 
Visual 
 
Construction 
Traffic 
The Landscape Character around 
the Project Site and visual amenity 
viewpoints 9 and 15 are expected to 
experience cumulative effects with 
the Felindre Business Park during 
the 
construction 
phase 
of 
the 
Project due to views containing
construction equipment, lighting and 
construction 
activities. 
This 
is 
expected to result in Minor adverse
effects, which is not significant. 
During 
operation, 
both 
developments 
would 
experience 
cumulative effects due to changes 
in landscape character, landform 
and presence. However these are 
also 
considered 
to 
be 
Minor 
adverse, 
and 
therefore 
not 
significant. 
 
As 
the 
construction 
traffic 
cumulative assessment assumes all 
developments, 
the 
residual 
cumulative effect for pedestrian 
experience 
will 
be 
Minor 
to 
Moderate adverse. There will also 
be a moderate adverse effect on 
driver delay on the B4489 (North) 
and a major adverse effect on the 
B4489 (South). Whilst these effects 
are significant, no mitigation is 
considered to be required due to the 
temporary 
effect 
during 
construction.
ES Non-Technical Summary 
Abergelli Power Project 
39 
Table NTS-6: Cumulative Assessment within Individual Topics 
Topic 
Cumulative Intensification Effects within Individual Topics 
Air Quality 
There are no other permitted or proposed developments within 
the study area which may result in air quality impacts during 
construction, or any other large combustion sources currently or 
proposed to be in operation.  
 
The maximum effects of the Project occur away from major roads 
and urban areas. It is therefore unlikely that there will be 
cumulative effects at the main roads during the construction 
phase. 
Noise & Vibration The Project does not share any residential receptors which may 
be cumulatively affected by the Project in addition to other 
developments in the area. This is due to an absence of effect, no 
overlap in construction or operational durations or due to 
remoteness of other developments 
Ecology 
The Project does not share any ecological receptors which may 
be cumulatively affected by the Project and other developments 
in the area. This is due to an absence of effect, no overlap in 
construction or operational durations, or due to remoteness from 
other developments. 
Water Resources  The Project does not share any receptors which may be 
cumulatively affected by the Project and other developments in 
the area. 
Ground 
Conditions 
No cumulative effects are anticipated with other developments in 
the area due the distance and proximity, and no shared receptors 
from components of the Project interacting with each other 
simultaneously during the construction phase which cannot be 
mitigated by the embedded mitigation.
Landscape 
& 
Visual  
The Landscape Character around the Project Site and visual 
amenity viewpoints 9 and 15 are expected to experience 
cumulative 
effects 
with 
other 
developments 
during 
the 
construction phase of the Project due to views containing 
construction equipment, lighting and construction activities. 
 
For visual amenity at viewpoints 9 and 15, cumulative magnitude 
of change would be Low, due to topography distance and 
duration of simultaneous construction phases, which combined 
with the Medium sensitivity would result in a Minor adverse
cumulative effect which is not significant. 
 
The same receptors would also experience cumulative effects 
during the operation of the Project and other developments due 
to changes in landscape character, landform and presence. 
However these are also considered to be Minor adverse, and 
therefore not significant.
ES Non-Technical Summary 
Abergelli Power Project 
40 
Topic 
Cumulative Intensification Effects within Individual Topics 
Traffic, Transport 
& Access 
Seven developments are considered to have a potential 
cumulative effect on traffic, transport and access during 
construction. These are:  
 Tyle Coch Mawr Wind Farm; 
 Felindre Business Park; 
 Llettyr Morfil Farm; 
 Plot 8 Felindre Business Park; 
 Land at Abergelli Farm; 
 Land North of Garden Village, Swansea; and 
 Land West of Llangyfelach Road, Tirdeunaw. 
 
The 
cumulative 
assessment 
for 
the 
individual 
Project 
components/full Project has identified that there will be no change 
in the significance of effects relating to the pedestrian experience 
(severance, pedestrian amenity, pedestrian delay, fear and 
intimidation). The residual cumulative effect will be Minor to 
Moderate adverse. Therefore, no mitigation is considered to be 
required. 
In respect of driver delay, it has been identified that will be a 
change in the significance of effect, primarily during the AM peak 
hour. The residual cumulative effects will be the same for the 
individual Project components/full Project. During the AM peak 
hour, the residual cumulative effect will be Minor adverse on the 
B4489 (North), M4 eastbound and westbound off-slips, Pant 
Lasau Road and the A48 (Southwest), and Major adverse on the 
B4489 (South). During the PM peak hour, the residual cumulative 
effect will be Minor adverse on the A48 (Southeast) and Major 
adverse on Pant Lasau Road. 
Whilst these effects are significant, the contribution of the 
individual Project components/full Project will be temporary in 
nature and does not require the delivery of mitigation measures 
such as capacity improvements. Observations in 2017 suggest 
that the junctions assessed are currently operating with a greater 
level of capacity than is reported based on the 2014 traffic survey 
data. The junctions are therefore unlikely to show the levels of 
delay reported in future year assessment scenarios. It should 
also be taken into consideration that the assessments carried out 
in this report are robust and compound a number of peak 
scenarios that would not normally coincide to create a theoretical 
worst case scenario. 
Historic 
Environment 
There is no potential for any likely significant effects from the
Project and other developments within the area because: 
 The direct physical effects of the Project on known 
archaeological or historical assets is negligible and 
ES Non-Technical Summary 
Abergelli Power Project 
41 
Topic 
Cumulative Intensification Effects within Individual Topics 
therefore cannot contribute in any meaningful way to any 
wider significant, comparable, losses to the cultural 
heritage resource.  
There are no significant effects upon the setting of historic 
assets predicted.
Socio-economics No cumulative effects are anticipated with socio-economics as 
there is enough labour capacity to accommodate cumulative 
projects as other planned projects could be developed 
concurrently without creating labour market distortions or placing 
pressure on accommodation providers.  Therefore no significant 
cumulative effects are anticipated.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ES Non-Technical Summary 
Abergelli Power Project 
42 
6 
Overall Conclusions  
 
 
This Non-Technical Summary outlines the findings of the ES for the Abergelli 
Power Project. The construction, operation and decommissioning of the 
Project have the potential to have effects on the natural environment and 
nearby human receptors.  
 
The ES concludes that the Project is likely to have mainly Minor adverse to 
Negligible effects on the environment.  Moderate adverse effects are likely 
to occur to traffic during construction. Moderate to Major adverse effects 
are limited to localised landscape and visual effects on receptors within the 
immediate vicinity of the Project Site during both construction and operation.  
 
Beneficial impacts are predicted to improve local employment during 
construction and operation, and are classed as Negligible. Additionally, 
Minor beneficial impacts to traffic on the B4489 (North), and M4 East 
Bound and West Bound Off-slip during the construction phase have been 
identified. There will also be a Minor beneficial effect from the stabilisation 
of ground conditions due to the Power Generation Plant structures.  
 
 
ES Non-Technical Summary 
Abergelli Power Project 
43 
7 
References  
 
Ref. 1 
The Planning Act 2008 (as amended).  
Ref. 2 
The Infrastructure Planning (Environmental Impact Assessment) 
Regulations 2009 (as amended) (the EIA Regulations).  
Ref. 3  
Welsh Government. People, Places, Futures – The Wales Spatial Plan 
2008 Update(d in July 2008). 
Ref. 4 
City and County of Swansea (CCS) (2017) Local Development Plan. 
Ref. 5  
South West Wales Regional Waste Group. (2008). South West Wales 
Regional Waste Plan. 1st Review.  
Ref. 6  
Directive 2008/98/EC, Waste Framework Directive (2008), L 312/3. 
Ref. 7  
Environmental Permitting (England and Wales) Regulations 2016. (as 
amended)   
Ref. 8  
Waste (England and Wales) Regulations 2011.  
Filename: P:\UKCDF1-IE\Projects\Environmental\Jobs - Potential\2017\2017 Q1\Abergelli Power Station\010 GIS\02_Maps\NTS\NTS1_Project Site Location Plan.mxd
This drawing has been prepared for the use of AECOM's client. It may not be used, modified, reproduced or relied upon by third parties, except as agreed by AECOM or as required by law. AECOM accepts no responsibility, and denies any liability whatsoever, to any party that uses or relies on this drawing without AECOM's express written consent. Do not scale this document. All measurements must be obtained from the stated dimensions.
AECOM Internal Project No:
Drawing Title:
Drawing No:
60542910
PROJECT SITE 
LOCATION PLAN
001
Scale at A3: 1:50,000
FIGURE NTS-1
1
0
1
2 km
±
Rev:
Project Title:
Client:
LEGEND
ABERGELLI POWER
PROJECT
AECOM Limited
1 Callaghan Square
Cardiff, CF10 5BT
+44 (0)29 2067 4600 tel
www.aecom.com
Copyright:
© Crown copyright and database rights
 [2017] Ordnance Survey 0100031673
Drawn:
GM
Chk'd:
NW
Date:
App'd:
CA
01/05/18
Project Site Boundary
10
0
10
20 km
SWANSEA
Felindre
Llangyfelach
M4
M4
Filename: P:\UKCDF1-IE\Projects\Environmental\Jobs - Potential\2017\2017 Q1\Abergelli Power Station\010 GIS\02_Maps\NTS\NTS2_Project Site Layout .mxd
This drawing has been prepared for the use of AECOM's client. It may not be used, modified, reproduced or relied upon by third parties, except as agreed by AECOM or as required by law. AECOM accepts no responsibility, and denies any liability whatsoever, to any party that uses or relies on this drawing without AECOM's express written consent. Do not scale this document. All measurements must be obtained from the stated dimensions.
AECOM Internal Project No:
Drawing Title:
Drawing No:
60542910
PROJECT SITE 
LAYOUT 
005
Scale at A3: 1:9,356.89
FIGURE NTS-2
50
0
50 100 150 200 250 m
±
Rev:
Project Title:
Client:
LEGEND
ABERGELLI POWER
PROJECT
AECOM Limited
1 Callaghan Square
Cardiff, CF10 5BT
+44 (0)29 2067 4600 tel
www.aecom.com
Copyright:
© Crown copyright and database rights
 [2017] Ordnance Survey 0100031673
Drawn:
GM
Chk'd:
CC
Date:
App'd:
CA
18/05/18
Generating Equipment SIte
Above Ground Installation (AGI)
Access Road
Electrical Connection (400kV
Cable)
Gas Connection
Laydown
Maintenance Compound
Project Site Boundary
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
9
8
7
6
5
4
32
1
28
27
26
25
24
23
22
21
20
19
18
17
16
15
14
13
12
11
10
Filename: P:\UKCDF1-IE\Projects\Environmental\Jobs - Potential\2017\2017 Q1\Abergelli Power Station\010 GIS\02_Maps\NTS\NTS3_Modelled Air Quality Receptors.mxd
This drawing has been prepared for the use of AECOM's client. It may not be used, modified, reproduced or relied upon by third parties, except as agreed by AECOM or as required by law. AECOM accepts no responsibility, and denies any liability whatsoever, to any party that uses or relies on this drawing without AECOM's express written consent. Do not scale this document. All measurements must be obtained from the stated dimensions.
AECOM Internal Project No:
Drawing Title:
Drawing No:
60542910
MODELLED AIR 
QUALITY RECEPTORS
005
Scale at A3: 1:30,000
FIGURE NTS-3
400
0
400
800
1,200
1,600
2,000 m
±
Rev:
Project Title:
Client:
LEGEND
ABERGELLI POWER
PROJECT
AECOM Limited
1 Callaghan Square
Cardiff, CF10 5BT
+44 (0)29 2067 4600 tel
www.aecom.com
Copyright:
© Crown copyright and database rights
 [2017] Ordnance Survey 0100031673
© Local Government Information House 
Limited copyright and database rights
 [2017] 0100031673
Drawn:
GM
Chk'd:
CC
Date:
App'd:
CA
01/05/18
Project Site Boundary
!(
Modelled Sensitive Human Receptors
Receptor 
Number
Description
1
Abergelli Farm
2
Building SW of Abergelli Farm
3
Building SW of Abergelli Farm
4
Lletty Morfil Farm
5
Pen-y-waun-fach Cottage
6
Cefn-betingau
7
Pen-y-fedw
8
Felin-Wen-Court
9
Property SE of the Site
10
Maes-eglwys
11
Rhyd-y-Pandy
12
Gwynfa
13
Cynghordy
14
Salem Cottage
15
Lletty’r Bugail
16
Brynheulog
17
Property N of the Site
18
Morriston Hospital
19
Pant-Iasau
20
Pant-Iasau
21
Llangyfelach
22
Bryn-tywod
23
Tircoed
24
Tircoed
25
Brynawel
26
Gellyfeddan
27
Area 5 of CCS LDP
28
Area 11 of CCS LDP
!>
!>
!>
!>
!>
!>
30 dB L Aeq 
35 dB L Aeq 
40 dB L Aeq 
45 dB L Aeq 
NSR6
NSR5
NSR4
NSR3
NSR2
NSR1
Filename: P:\UKCDF1-IE\Projects\Environmental\Jobs - Potential\2017\2017 Q1\Abergelli Power Station\010 GIS\02_Maps\NTS\NTS4_Noise Sensitive Receptors.mxd
This drawing has been prepared for the use of AECOM's client. It may not be used, modified, reproduced or relied upon by third parties, except as agreed by AECOM or as required by law. AECOM accepts no responsibility, and denies any liability whatsoever, to any party that uses or relies on this drawing without AECOM's express written consent. Do not scale this document. All measurements must be obtained from the stated dimensions.
AECOM Internal Project No:
Drawing Title:
Drawing No:
60542910
NOISE SENSITIVE 
RECEPTORS
01
Scale at A3: Not To Scale
FIGURE NTS-4
Rev:
Project Title:
Client:
LEGEND
ABERGELLI POWER
PROJECT
AECOM Limited
1 Callaghan Square
Cardiff, CF10 5BT
+44 (0)29 2067 4600 tel
www.aecom.com
Copyright:
© Crown copyright and database rights
 [2017] Ordnance Survey 0100031673
Drawn:
GM
Chk'd:
CC
Date:
App'd:
CA
01/05/18
±
50
0
50
100
150
200
250 m
Project Site Boundary
Generating Equipment SIte
Access Road
!>
Noise Sensitive Receptors
Indicative specific sound level
Area with predicted specific sound
level above 35 dB LAeq
Noise Sensitive 
Receptor
Address
NSR1
Cefn-betingau
NSR2
Feline Wen Farm
NSR3
Llwynhelig
NSR4
Maes-eglwys
NSR5
Lletty Morfil Farm
NSR6
Abergelli Farm
^_
2
6
4
6
1
3
5
3
17
3
9
18
16
12
7
11
20
8
22
14
21
15
19
13
10
Rhos Fawr
Plant Lasau
Clifaen
Llety-Morfil
Waun Garn Wen
Cefn Forest Steam
Lower Lliw Reservoir
Felindre Grasslands
Rhyd-Y-Pandy Valley and Grasslands
Middle Lliw
Middle Llan
NANT Y CRIMP
Filename: P:\UKCDF1-IE\Projects\Environmental\Jobs - Potential\2017\2017 Q1\Abergelli Power Station\010 GIS\02_Maps\NTS\NTS5_Designated Ecological Sites .mxd
This drawing has been prepared for the use of AECOM's client. It may not be used, modified, reproduced or relied upon by third parties, except as agreed by AECOM or as required by law. AECOM accepts no responsibility, and denies any liability whatsoever, to any party that uses or relies on this drawing without AECOM's express written consent. Do not scale this document. All measurements must be obtained from the stated dimensions.
AECOM Internal Project No:
Drawing Title:
Drawing No:
60542910
DESIGNATED 
ECOLOGICAL SITES 
005
Scale at A3: 1:25,000
FIGURE NTS-5
500
0
500
1,000
1,500
2,000
2,500 m
±
Rev:
Project Title:
Client:
LEGEND
ABERGELLI POWER
PROJECT
AECOM Limited
1 Callaghan Square
Cardiff, CF10 5BT
+44 (0)29 2067 4600 tel
www.aecom.com
Copyright:
© Crown copyright and database rights
 [2017] Ordnance Survey 0100031673
© Local Government Information House 
Limited copyright and database rights
 [2017] 0100031673
Drawn:
GM
Chk'd:
CC
Date:
App'd:
CA
01/05/18
^_
Proposed Stack Location
Project Site Boundary
2km Study Area
Site of Special Scientific Interest
Coed Barcud Wildlife Trust Reserve
Ancient Woodland
SINCs
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW XW
XW
XWXW
XWXW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XWXWXW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
Lower Lliw Reservoir
Rhos Fawr
Plant Lasau
Clifaen
Waun Garn Wen
Cefn Forest Steam
Lower Lliw Reservoir
Felindre Grasslands
Rhyd-Y-Pandy Valley and Grasslands
Middle Lliw
Middle Lliw
Middle Lliw
Lletty-Morfil
Middle Lliw
Lletty-Morfil
Lletty-Morfil
Middle Lliw
Middle Lliw
Middle Llan
Rhyd-Y-Pandy Valley and Grasslands
Lletty-Morfil
Middle Lliw
Lletty-Morfil
Rhyd-Y-Pandy Valley and Grasslands
NANT Y CRIMP
GLAIS MORAINE
NANT Y CRIMP
PENPLAS GRASSLANDS
PENLLERGAER RAILWAY CUTTING
GRAIG FAWR, PONTARDULAIS
Llan - headwaters to tidal limit
Lliw - headwaters to confluence with Llan
Tawe -confluence with Twrch to tidal limit
Lower Clydach - headwaters to confluence with Tawe
Dulais - headwaters to confluence with Loughor
Nant y Fendrod - headwaters to conf with Tawe
Filename: P:\UKCDF1-IE\Projects\Environmental\Jobs - Potential\2017\2017 Q1\Abergelli Power Station\010 GIS\02_Maps\NTS\NTS6_Water Quality and Resources Receptors.mxd
This drawing has been prepared for the use of AECOM's client. It may not be used, modified, reproduced or relied upon by third parties, except as agreed by AECOM or as required by law. AECOM accepts no responsibility, and denies any liability whatsoever, to any party that uses or relies on this drawing without AECOM's express written consent. Do not scale this document. All measurements must be obtained from the stated dimensions.
AECOM Internal Project No:
Drawing Title:
Drawing No:
60542910
WATER QUALITY AND 
RESOURCES 
RECEPTORS
001
Scale at A3: 1:25,000
FIGURE NTS-6
500
0
500
1,000 m
±
Rev:
Project Title:
Client:
LEGEND
ABERGELLI POWER
PROJECT
AECOM Limited
1 Callaghan Square
Cardiff, CF10 5BT
+44 (0)29 2067 4600 tel
www.aecom.com
Copyright:
© Crown copyright and database rights
 [2017] Ordnance Survey 0100031673
© Local Government Information House 
Limited copyright and database rights
 [2017] 0100031673
Drawn:
JN
Chk'd:
GM
Date:
App'd:
CA
01/05/18
Project Site Boundary
1 km Buffer
kj
Wells
XW
Springs
WFD Lakes
Moderate
WFD Rivers
Good
Moderate
WFD River Catchments
Inferred Water Flow Direction
Groundwater
Surface Water
NRW Sites of Special Scientific Interest
(SSSI)
Ancient Woodland
Abergelli Wildlife Reserve
Sites of Importance for Nature
Conservation (SINC)
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW XW
XW
XWXW
XWXW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XWXWXW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
XW
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
kj
Lower Lliw Reservoir
Llan - headwaters to tidal limit
Lliw - headwaters to confluence with Llan
Tawe -confluence with Twrch to tidal limit
Lower Clydach - headwaters to confluence with Tawe
Dulais - headwaters to confluence with Loughor
Nant y Fendrod - headwaters to conf with Tawe
Filename: P:\UKCDF1-IE\Projects\Environmental\Jobs - Potential\2017\2017 Q1\Abergelli Power Station\010 GIS\02_Maps\NTS\NTS7_Geology, Ground Conditions, and Hydrogeology Receptors.mxd
This drawing has been prepared for the use of AECOM's client. It may not be used, modified, reproduced or relied upon by third parties, except as agreed by AECOM or as required by law. AECOM accepts no responsibility, and denies any liability whatsoever, to any party that uses or relies on this drawing without AECOM's express written consent. Do not scale this document. All measurements must be obtained from the stated dimensions.
AECOM Internal Project No:
Drawing Title:
Drawing No:
60542910
GEOLOGY, GROUND 
CONDITIONS, AND 
HYDROGEOLOGY 
RECEPTORS
001
Scale at A3: 1:25,000
FIGURE NTS-7
500
0
500
1,000 m
±
Rev:
Project Title:
Client:
LEGEND
ABERGELLI POWER
PROJECT
AECOM Limited
1 Callaghan Square
Cardiff, CF10 5BT
+44 (0)29 2067 4600 tel
www.aecom.com
Copyright:
© Crown copyright and database rights
 [2017] Ordnance Survey 0100031673
© Local Government Information House 
Limited copyright and database rights
 [2017] 0100031673
Drawn:
JN
Chk'd:
GM
Date:
App'd:
CA
01/05/18
Project Site Boundary 
1 km Buffer
kj
Wells
XW
Springs
WFD Rivers
WFD Lakes
Other Watercourses
Inferred Water Flow Direction
Groundwater
Surface Water
Bedrock Geology
Grovesend Formation
Swansea Member Sandstone
Swansea Member Mudstone Siltstone 
Sandstone
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
18
17
16
15
14
11
10
Filename: P:\UKCDF1-IE\Projects\Environmental\Jobs - Potential\2017\2017 Q1\Abergelli Power Station\010 GIS\02_Maps\NTS\NTS8_Zone of Theoretical Visibility.mxd
This drawing has been prepared for the use of AECOM's client. It may not be used, modified, reproduced or relied upon by third parties, except as agreed by AECOM or as required by law. AECOM accepts no responsibility, and denies any liability whatsoever, to any party that uses or relies on this drawing without AECOM's express written consent. Do not scale this document. All measurements must be obtained from the stated dimensions.
AECOM Internal Project No:
Drawing Title:
Drawing No:
60542910
ZONE OF THEORETICAL 
VISIBILITY
001
Scale at A3: 1:40,000
FIGURE NTS-8
1
0
1
2 km
±
Rev:
Project Title:
Client:
LEGEND
ABERGELLI POWER
PROJECT
AECOM Limited
1 Callaghan Square
Cardiff, CF10 5BT
+44 (0)29 2067 4600 tel
www.aecom.com
Copyright:
© Crown copyright and database rights
 [2017] Ordnance Survey 0100031673
Drawn:
GM
Chk'd:
RM
Date:
App'd:
CA
01/05/18
!(
Viewpoints
Project Site Boundary
5km Study Area
Zone of Theoretical Visibility (ZTV)
including proposed stack height
Viewpoints 12, 13 and 19 are beyond
the 5km Study Area
Filename: P:\UKCDF1-IE\Projects\Environmental\Jobs - Potential\2017\2017 Q1\Abergelli Power Station\010 GIS\02_Maps\NTS\NTS9_Traffic Links.mxd
This drawing has been prepared for the use of AECOM's client. It may not be used, modified, reproduced or relied upon by third parties, except as agreed by AECOM or as required by law. AECOM accepts no responsibility, and denies any liability whatsoever, to any party that uses or relies on this drawing without AECOM's express written consent. Do not scale this document. All measurements must be obtained from the stated dimensions.
AECOM Internal Project No:
Drawing Title:
Drawing No:
60542910
TRAFFIC LINKS
001
Scale at A3: 1:14,000
FIGURE NTS-9
200
0
200
400 m
±
Rev:
Project Title:
Client:
LEGEND
ABERGELLI POWER
PROJECT
AECOM Limited
1 Callaghan Square
Cardiff, CF10 5BT
+44 (0)29 2067 4600 tel
www.aecom.com
Copyright:
© Crown copyright and database rights
 [2017] Ordnance Survey 0100031673
Drawn:
GM
Chk'd:
NW
Date:
App'd:
CA
01/05/18
Project Site Boundary
Local/Strategic Highway Network
to Existing Access Road
Existing Access Road (B4489 to
National Grid)
New Access Road
AGI Access
FELINDRE
B4489
B4489
B4489
Felindre 
Park and Share
M4 Junction 46
Northern Dumbbell 
Roundabout
M4 Junction 46
Southern Dumbbell 
Roundabout
A48 / Pant Lassau Road
Mini-Roundabout
Pant Lassau Road
Rhyd-y-Pandy Road
Rhyd-y-Pandy Road
3
4
12
11
10
9
8
7
6
5
1
2
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
AB03
AB04
Filename: P:\UKCDF1-IE\Projects\Environmental\Jobs - Potential\2017\2017 Q1\Abergelli Power Station\010 GIS\02_Maps\NTS\NTS10_Historical Assets.mxd
This drawing has been prepared for the use of AECOM's client. It may not be used, modified, reproduced or relied upon by third parties, except as agreed by AECOM or as required by law. AECOM accepts no responsibility, and denies any liability whatsoever, to any party that uses or relies on this drawing without AECOM's express written consent. Do not scale this document. All measurements must be obtained from the stated dimensions.
AECOM Internal Project No:
Drawing Title:
Drawing No:
60542910
HISTORIC
ASSETS
005
Scale at A3: 1:15,000
FIGURE NTS-10
200
0
200
400
600
800
1,000 m
±
Rev:
Project Title:
Client:
LEGEND
ABERGELLI POWER
PROJECT
AECOM Limited
1 Callaghan Square
Cardiff, CF10 5BT
+44 (0)29 2067 4600 tel
www.aecom.com
Copyright:
© Crown copyright and database rights
 [2017] Ordnance Survey 0100031673
© Crown copyright: Royal Commission 
on the Ancient and Historical 
Monuments of Wales
© Hawlfraint y Goron: Comisiwn 
Brenhinol Henebion Cymru
Drawn:
GM
Chk'd:
CC
Date:
App'd:
CA
01/05/18
Project Site Boundary
!(
Grade II -  Listed Building
!(
Historic Asset - Point             
Historic Asset - Linear           
Scheduled Monument
1km Study Area
