  
 
 
Progress Power ‘Meet the Team’ briefing session 
Eye Community Centre – Monday 3rd July, 6.30pm 
 
Attendees 
 
Suffolk County Council: Cllr Jessica Fleming (Hartismere); Cllr Guy McGregor (Hoxne & 
Eye); Ms Leanne Blake (assistant to Cllr McGregor) 
Mid Suffolk District Council: Cllr Michael Burke (Eye); Cllr David Burn (Palgrave) 
Brome and Oakley Parish Council: Cllr Ursula Halton 
Eye Town Council: Cllr Richard Berry; Cllr Andrew Evitt 
Yaxley Parish Council: Cllr John Hawes; Cllr Ian Luff 
 
Landowners and agents: Mr Paul Hammond; Mr Richard Hammond; Mrs Jacobs; Mr J. 
Moore; Mr D. Talbot; Mr Nick Durrant; Mr Kelvin Grimes; Ms Eleanor Havers 
 
Drax Group plc: Andy Koss (CEO, Generation); Thaleia Melliou (Project Manager, Progress 
Power); Jim Doyle (Environmental Consents Officer); Duncan Thew (Construction Manager); 
Karl Smyth (Public Affairs Manager) 
 
Invited/apologies: Thrandeston Parish Council; Mellis Parish Council 
 
Summary of meeting 
The Drax project team gave a short presentation to introduce itself to attendees and update 
them on the status of the Progress Power Station. Attendees were welcome to ask questions 
both during and after the presentation. The key discussion points that emerged from the 
meeting were as follows: 
• 
About Drax. Drax is a longstanding, publically listed British energy company. It 
specialises in three core areas: generating electricity from power stations; supplying 
gas and electricity to businesses; and manufacturing sustainably sourced wood 
pellets for use in power stations. The business employs over 2,000 people in the UK 
across several different locations including Ipswich, the home of Drax’s retail 
business Haven Power. Further information about Drax can be found on 
www.drax.com.  
 
• 
Preliminary site works: Oxford Archaeology, a specialist consultancy working for 
Drax, has now completed its initial survey work to assess archaeological significance 
on both the power station and sub-station sites. This work involved creating trenches 
up to 68cm deep (60 top soil and 8 cm subsoil) across the equivalent of 3% of the 
total development site. A report will be produced by Oxford Archaeology detailing this 
work and their findings and shared with Suffolk County Council. 
 
• 
Substation: A number of attendees queried the final design of the substation and the 
associated visual impact. Drax explained that discussions are continuing with 
  
 
 
National Grid over the substation design and a final design is likely to be arrived at by 
the end of the year. Drax understands the community’s concerns and has been 
working hard with National Grid to reduce the substation size – it is anticipated the 
final design for the substation building will be approximately 30% smaller than that 
exhibited during the Development Consent Order consultation. Drax will host a 
session exploring the design of the substation with local stakeholders later in 2017, at 
which new visuals will be provided for consideration. 
 
• 
Community benefit: Drax fully supports the commitment by the previous developer 
to provide a £300,000 community benefit fund to support local projects. Drax wants 
to ensure that the local community ultimately has the final say over how the fund is 
administered and which projects to support. Drax is in on-going discussions with 
Suffolk County Council and Mid Suffolk District Council over the governance and 
terms of reference of the fund. 
 
• 
Construction activity: Construction will not take place on site until the project 
secures a Capacity Market contract (2018 at the earliest). Once work begins, the 
construction programme is expected to take approximately 30 months from beginning 
to end. Drax is preparing a detailed Construction Environmental Management Plan 
(CEMP) that will outline the steps it will take to manage the impacts associated with 
construction. Drax is also committed to establishing a Liaison Group with local 
stakeholders during construction, which will meet on a regular basis to discuss 
operational issues and upcoming milestones on the construction programme. 
 
• 
Planning and consenting: There are a series of planning obligations Drax is 
required to discharge as part of the Development Consent Order granted to the 
project. It is Drax’s intention to work through these obligations in the coming months. 
The obligations will be discharged by submitting a planning application to Mid Suffolk 
District Council, which is the delegated authority. 
 
• 
Capacity Market: Securing a Capacity Market contract remains important to the 
commercial viability of the project. The Capacity Market is a competitive auction run 
by National Grid every year where long-term contracts are provided to power stations 
that can guarantee to generate electricity over future winter periods (the period when 
the country’s electricity demand is at its peak). The power stations that can do this at 
the lowest cost are the ones who successfully receive a contract. It is Drax’s intention 
to enter the Progress Power project into the next Capacity Market auction, due to 
take place in Q1 2018. If successful, the project would receive a 15-year contract and 
be expected to generate electricity in 2022. 
 
The meeting concluded at 8pm. 
